51 GJiNKllAL SYSTEJr. IvKNNEDy, H., A.B., M.B.—^ Casein which a Disease like Measles arose from an umcsiud cause, with Remarks. Dublin Quart. Jour, of Med. Sc., 1863. A boy, ret. 15, in perfect health, had a quantity of mouldy flax-seed meal tlirown on his face, which got into his eyes and probably down his tliroat. He was at once seized -with smarting and watering of the eyes, running from the nose, cough, and dyspnoea. Hia face soon became much swollen, eyelids and eyes very red, and the dyspnoea urgent. There was great excitement of the system. The following day he had, except the rash, all the look of a boy suffering from a sharp attack of measles, a disease wliich he had had two years before. He was treated by salines, tartar emetic, and blisters, and got well in three weeks. Kennedyfitids that mouldy meal contains fungi, and refers to the researches of Dr. Salisbury, showing that straw fungi are capable of producing a form of measles, whether they are inoculated or inhaled. This American physician produced fungi, of which he gives drawings, by rendering straw mouldy. With these he inoculated some thirteen persons, the result being that, within two days, a disease exactly like measles in some, including the rash, followed. He has since found that similar inoculation acts as a prophylactic against ordinary measles. Kennedy concludes that in his case the symptoms were produced by the contact of fungi in the meal with the mucous surfaces, and thinks that fungi may play a considerable part in producing certain acute diseases of the throat and air-passages. He proposes in such cases the administration of emetics, which, by their direct effects, may cut short disease in its early stage. Dr. Salisbury's papers are in the ' American Jour.' for July and October, 1862. FiioLicH, Reuss, and other Wurtemburg physicians, state the following conclusions with regard to rubeola and measles (' Wurtemb. Corr. Bl.,' xxxii, 20, 1862; 'Schmidt's Jahrb.,' vol. 118, p. 187):—(i) The general symptoms in rubeola are for the most part very slight; fever is almost absent. (2) Catarrhal symptoms are present only in exceptional cases. (3) Rubeola affords no protection against subsequent infection from measles, and vice versa. ZiEMSSEN, H., Krableb, P.—Clinical Observations of Measles, especially with regard to the Temperature. Greifswald Med. Beitrag,, p. 117, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 118, p. 299. The authors endeavoured to ascertain the course of the fever in measles, and to determine how far the disease conformed to a regular fixed type,' also whether its departure occurred on critical days. They observed 311 cases during an epidemic which prevailed from August, 1861, to January, 1862. Their persuasion was that the mode of appearance and departure of the eruption afforded no sufficient criterion for classifying the cases; that the amount of fever was of much greater moment, and from this point of view they distinguish cases of slight infection, of grave, and complicated. The stage of incubation lasted, in accurately observed cases thirteen or fourteen days. Especially in adults, it was attended with some fibnie excitement, depression and catarrh. The commencement of the ' disease was marked only in five cases by a rigor, in all the others there was