NfillVOUS SYSTEM. 97 various other nstlienic conditions of the nervous system. He also pre- scribes alcoholic stimuli, and plenty of fatty matter in the food, but dis- courages the use of sedatives. Sugar is injurious in rheumatic cases. Heller.—Wien. Med. Wochensclir, Brit. Med. Journ., January 3rd, Gives the following account of the analysis of a boy's urine, set. 6, who died of hydrophobia. The sp. gr. = 1036. It was very acid ; deposited a very large amount of uric acid, no urate of ammonia. The urea was greatly iifcreased, also the sulphates and the earthy phosphates. The chlorides were slightly diminished ; the alkaline phosphates slightly in- creased. There was no sugar, and only a trace of albumen and carbonate of ammonia. Benedikt, M.—The method of Electrical Examination of the Nervous System for Diagnostic Purposes. AUg. Wien. Med. Zeit., viii, 18, 19, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 120, p. 399. Benedikt affirms that in electrical testing of different parts of a nerve, ■when paralysis exists in the parts supplied by it, different parts react differently. There are paralyses which declare themselves only when the muscles are faradised, the voluntary power remaining perfect, as in the period of recovery from saturnine and traumatic paralyses ; others, again, in which only the voluntary power is defective, while stimulation of the nerve-trunk or of the muscle produces contraction, as in peripheral rheumatic and cerebral paralyses; lastly, some where only direct stimu- lation of the muscle itself, or of the nerve-trunk, produces movement, but the will is inoperative, as in certain peripheral paralyses. Benedikt there- fore advises us in every instance of paralysis to subject successively the muscles, the nerve-trunk, the plexus from which it originates, and the anterior spinal roots (!), to the induced or constant current. If the muscle does not contract in a normal manner when directly stimulated, but does so when the stimulus is applied to the nerve or the centre, it must be healthy, and the cause of the deficient contraction can only exist in defective excitability of the intra-muscular motoi'-uerve-tibres, lu cases where the muscle and nerve react to peripheral excitation, but the voluntary power is lost, there must be a failure of the conducting power in the nerves. The degree of excitability may be estimated by the amount of contraction, and its increase by the occurrence of contraction on open- ing the circuit. Changes in the conducting power of the nerves declare themselves by changes in the rapidity with which impulses are propa- gated, and with which, consequently, contraction ensues. In the case of anesthesia we must proceed in a similar way. If a sensory nerve, when ' stimulated at any part, gives rise to normal sensation, we are sure that the cause of the disorder is situated more peripherally than the point acted upon ; and we must advance more peripherally till we find where stimulation fails to produce the normal effect. The condition of the vaso- motor nerves may be tested in the same way, their action being judged of by the occurrence of pallor. Benedikt finds that morphia greatly increases the electrical excitability of nerves, while the relaxing eflcct of iitropine is increased by previous galvanization. The latter is often necessary before the former can act beneficially. 7