UEPOIIT ON SURGERY. 192 4. Fiually, there exist cases of septic poisouiug of the blood ia wliich the disease appears to depend partly on the decomposi- tion of the blood and tissues, partly on that of the purulent secretion. 3. Poisoning hi/ decomposing mts.—Two different types of this form of poisoning may be clinically clistinguislied—that from the primary de- composition of the pus produced in acute suppurations, and that from the secondary decomposition of the purulent matter contained in chronic or so-called cold abscesses. The treatment of abscesses is regulated to a great extent by the principle that acute abscesses must be opened to prevent the absorption of decomposed pus, and chronic abscesses must be as long as possible unopened, to prevent decom- position and the absorption of the products so formed. We can perceive on the second day after a chronic abscess has been opened the odour of sulphuretted hydrogen, and by the fourth day it is very intense. The patient, who had been previously vrithout fever, now presents an increase in the temperature—a coated tongue, a bad appetite, and other, espe- cially intestinal, derangements. Prom the fourth to the sixth day the decomposition continvies ; after that period the symptoms again diminish, the pus becomes healthy, aud unless there is some impediment, as caries or tuberculosis, convalescence ensues. Pyaemia is very liable to super- vene in an infected hospital, but not in private practice. Some of the patients die from tuberculosis, others from albuminuria, others from exhaustion caused by the profuse and long-continued discharge. Death may, however, take place during the first stage after the opening, and the symptoms are then those of an acute septic poisoning of the blood. The symptoms are feverish heat and increasing weakness, perhaps diarrhoea, vomiting, and the formation of bed-sores ; death occurs within the first eight days. Post-mortem examination discloses no further local lesion, no pysemic deposits; nothing is more simple than to refer the death to the septic poisoning of the blood. Acute abscesses are also attended by a series of morbid phenomena which can only be readily interpreted by the supposition of the absorption of decomposed matter. The rigor which so often accompanies the formation of an acute suppuration, the loss of appetite, the constant sweating of the patient, are the principal results which may be ascribed to the decomposition of pus. The con- dition is generally at once improved by the opening of such an abscess. In the author's opinion, traumatic fever depends on the formation and absorption of pus, or, as he proceeds to more exactly define, the symp- toms of fever whicli usually occur after serious injuries are in most cases to be referred to septica;inia. Since a wounded man, a case of amputation, or any case of similar injury, does not present symptoms of fever till from the third to the sixth day, till the occurrence of a fetid suppuration—and since another patient, injured in a similar manner, in whom such suppuration does not result, is unaflected by fever—is it not clear that the fever is caused by the decomposition and absorption of the secretion, and not directly by the wound or the inflammation of the wounded surfaces ? It hence appears that two kinds of decomposing pus must be clini- cally distinguished—that from chronic abscesses, characterised by an