27 MOTAlilOllPHOSIS OF MATrEH. deficit of 30 per cent, all the nitrogen is voided in the urine and faeces. The total nitrogen-content of the dove's body amounted to about 14 gi-ainmes {^i&o'j grains); so that if only o-ii gramme of nitrogen (17 grain) had been removed per diem by the respiration, nothing would have remained of it. The weight of the peas consumed Avas eight times greater than that of the dove, and the nitrogen in them ten times more than the dove contained. A girl of nineteen years of age, and free from all other disease, suffered from stricture of the oesophagus, through drinking sulphuric acid, gradually increasing to perfect closure. She lived sixteen days without the introduction of any substance whatever into the stomach; and though nutritive matter, mixed with pepsine and with hydrochloric and lactic acid, was introduced regularly into the rectum, yet the absence of chlorine in the urine before death showed that none was absorbed. Even at the time of death the face was moderately full and the breasts well developed. On the eighth day before death the temperature began to fall, audit sank gradually to 357° C. (96° Fahr.). The mucous mem- brane of the stomach was of a deep-red colour at the pylorus, in other parts of a brownish hue, and in its whole extent greatly swollen. There was hepatization of the left lung. The liver cells were small, and several contained fat; the kidneys were wasted, and contained several, fibrin-cylinders. The chemical phenomena were chiefly the following :—The urine, examined two days before death, contained in twenty-four hours—urea, 6'6 grammes (99 8^ grains); uric acid, o'o66 grammes (i grain) ; hip- puric acid, i-i6 (i7"9 grains); phosphoric acid, i'485 (22-5 grains); creatin moderately abundant; chlorine absent. It contained albumen. Tlie muscles yielded leucin, a small quantity of uric acid, creatinin abundantly ; creatin not to be detected. The richness of the urine in hippuric acid was remarkable; it was more than double the ordinary amount in twenty-four hours (o'5 grm.), although the quantity of uric acid was diminished fivefold. This fact confirms Hallwach's statement, that hippm-ic acid is a product exclu- sively of the regressive metamorphosis of the tissues. The absence of creatin in the muscles may be referred to the want of water, the creatinin which was so largely present differing from it by the addi- tion of 2HO. The leucin may possibly have been a product of decomposition, although the quantity was very large, and the muscle was wholly free from smell. Speck has carried out some new experiments upon young men in respect to the influence of exertion upon the excreta, &c. He found that bodily exertion occasions a decided decrease of weight, and in- creased the total waste and excretion; but after it, for a time, the body wastes less than otherwise in rest, and thus tends to equalise tlie loss. Thus, the increased waste during exertion may escape observation unless the weighing of the body is conducted correspondingly. During rest the increased use of water increases excretion, and leads to a diminution of weight; the contrary is the case during exertion—the bodily weight increases with the use of water, probably through its