235 AMPUTATION OF THE THIGH. in length, and carrying the disengaged knife over the front of the limb, connect the extrennties of the longitudinal incision hy a curved incision with its convexity downwards. Dissecting up the anterior flap the operation is easily completed, and, remembering to saw off the upper and inner angle of the shin, your anterior flap falls over the stump as naturally as the eyelid over the eye, and the pus finds as ready an exit as do the tears." "The advantages of this mode of amputation are many and various— (i) the facility of execution; (2) the complete freedom from all and any tension ; (3) the ready exit of pus ; (4) the impossibility of any dragging of the flap against the spirit of the tibia; (5) the freedom from pressure of all the important vessels and nerves." " The only objection that can be urged against this method is this— that by making the anterior flap so long, more of the length of a limb may be sacrificed. This objection at once falls to the ground, when we reflect that the posterior flap may be increased in length, and the ante- rior shortened, whenever circumstances may seem to demand it. The peculiar advantages of this form of operation are well preserved if the anterior flap is not more than two inches longer than the posterior." ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1863, i. 88.) J. Swinburne, in a paper on the indications for amputation in military surgery (' Amer. ]Med. Tim.,' 1B63, i, 149) makes the following remarks: "' The treatment of compound and comminuted fractures of the thigh becomes a matter of serious consideration, since it involves many important points. Statistics from the Crimean war show that in amputation through the hip-joint all died. In the upper third 87'o. In the middle third 6o'o died. In the lower third died; while the present war will, I think, demonstrate that even a greater propor- tion than this prove fatal. Excision of the shaft is evidently out of the question, since all die after the operation. The question then arises. Shall we amputate ?—or, Shall we treat siich cases as ordinary compound fractui'es? I prefer the latter, and have from the first thought it the most reasonable treatment. The plan I propose is to place the patient on a bed or stretcher, extend the limb as near as pos- sible to its normal length witliout giving too great pain, lietain it in that position by fastening the foot to the foot of the bed or stretcher, by means of adhesive plaster, as in ordinary comj)ound fractures, as I have on other occasions illustrated (' Traus. State Med. Soc, N.T.,' for 186i, &c.). Make the counter-extension thereon by an inclined plane, against which the body impinges, by elevating the foot of the bed or stretcher,—or the use of a perineal belt fastened to the head of the bed or stretcher. To obviate inversion or eversion of the foot, I place bags of sand on each side of the foot. There should be no bandaging of the leg or thigh. If collections of matter follow, free incisions may become necessary to relieve constrictions, and to facilitate the discharge of such matter and spicula of bone,—irrigation or the application of clotli wet in cold or warm water must be continued to the limb until inflammation has passed ofi". Under no circumstances must the patient bo removed from the bed or stretcher until the consolidation of tho bono is considerable, Avlien artificial support can be given, and tlio