IIEPOIIT 0\ SURGKUY, otiicr is coutiued to bed witli a slight disclmrgo. The uuiou iu both is perfect, their general hcaltli excellent, their spirits buoyant, and it requires no excess of professional confidence to be convinced that only a short time will elapse before both patients will be completely re- stored to lieiilth, and will enjoy valuable use of their limbs." He speaks in very enthusiastic terms of Smith's anterior splint. D. C. Peters ('Amcr. Med. Tim.,' 186.3, 233) and J. T. Hodgen (ib., p. 208) are both in favour of conservative treatment in compound fracture of the shaft of tlie femur. The latter states that "since the 3oth day of September, 1861, there have been received at this hospital (City General Hospital, St. Louis, Mo.) sixty-five cases of gunshot fractures of the shaft of the os femoris. Of these, eighteen have died, four remain under treatment (two of whom are waliung witii canes, the other two iu a fair way to recover), and forty-three have recovered, and left the hospital with good limbs, except one, and that one has a limb far better than ' Palmer's best' substitute. It will be observed, that the per-centage of mortality is less than twenty-eight, thus giving better results so far as life is concerned than amputation of the thigh would do, besides preserving useful limbs. These injuries were not all inflicted by conical leaden bullets, a part being by grape, canister, and the round leaden bullet. From my observation I would say gunshot fractures of the shaft of the femur made by conical leaden bullets do not demand amputation, except when associated with injury of the nerve or artery." D. P. Smith describes a new splint for fractures of the femur ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1863, i, 111). He says, "in my cases of shattered limbs, I use a slat of pine wood extending from the crest of the ilium to just beyond the sole of the foot. It should be about two inches wide and half an inch thick. A similar stick runs up on the inside of the limb to the perineum. Join the two by a cross-piece below the sole of the foot, and by a cross-piece passing in front of the thigh just below the perineum; suspend the limb in this by separate strips of bandage passing under the limb, then over the two sides of the cradle, and the ends tying in a bow-knot; suspend the splint from above, so that the Avhole limb and its dressings may swing clear of the bed; change the tension of this or that muslin strip until the limb lies easy; lead the cords that suspend the splint a little downwards so as to make any necessary extension ; raise the foot of the bed an incb or two to furnish counter-extension if needed ; and you have my idea. In no other way can an exsected knee or gunshot fracture of the femur be so completely cared for. One will see at a glance that the limb can be most com- pletely cleansed and dressed without stirring it in the slightest." * M. Duparcque, on inequality in the length of tiie upper limbs in reference to fractures (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 55). E. Gurlt, statistics ('Arch, f Klin. Chir.,' iii, 393). M. Gosselin, on fractures in Y, or wedge-shaped ('Mem. de la Soc. de Chir.,' v, 147). M. Bouvicr, on the immoveable baudage (ib., p. 175). Mr. Spence, case of fracture M ith dislocation of the humerus ('Edinb. Med. Journal,' viii, 1084); * It 13 worth remark, that the ai)pariitU3 here reconinieiKlcd is the bed i:i miniatnre, that was long suice used by Corrigan in fever cases. —T.