hepout on practical iiedicink. 14.1. most cnscs Hcsclil rcgnrds, not as the cause of the haemorrhnges, but as a co-result of the malarious disease. Begbie, J. W. — On Vascular Bronchocele and Exophlhalmos. Ediii. Med. Jour., Sept., 1863. As the result of a prolonged discussion, Begbie is disposed to con- clude that the true pathology of the bronchocele and exophthalmos, found in connection with cardiac palpitation and vascular pulsations and dilatations, lies both in the blood and in the nervous system, but that the primum mobile is the former; that an altered' state of the blood—for a time stopping short of wliat is generally known as ansemin, in many cases amounting to well-marked anaemia—acts directly on the nerves of blood-vessels and on the nerves of the heart (sanguis moderator nervorum) ; that, as a consequence, their rhythmical move- ments are seriously affected, and dilatation of the heart's chambers, and of blood-vessels, arteries, but chiefly veins, results ; that for a lengthened period the bronchocele is truly a vascular enlargement and dilatation, but that in course of time hypertrophy and degeneration of gland structure result; that the exophlhalmos, which is not a necessary consequence any more than the bronchocele of tbis disordered state of blood and neurosis of blood-vessels, depends upon congestion and vascular dilatation of the ophthalmic vessels, with effusion of serum into tbe post-ocular cellular tissue ; and, lastly, that a plan of treatment directed to the improvement of the condition of the blood, and at the same time to the state of the nervous system, is successful in effecting a cure, provided those organic changes in the heart, to which reference has been made, have not already been induced. 11E3PIRAT0KY SYSTEM. RiCHAiiDSOX, B. W., M.A., M.D. — Researches on the Treatment of Suspended Animation. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., April, 1863. Richardson states the question he proposed to himself as follows:— Given a healthy body, in which, without structural injury or cliange in any part or organ, life has been arrested by suppression of the chemical process of oxidation: how can such a body be restored? The cases in- cluded under this proposition are more numerous than might be expected. Richardson enumerates six classes, but in the present communication he deals only with the first two, comprising examples where death (apparent) has occurred either from obstructed respiration or from inhalation of a narcotic vapour. He discusses,/rs^, the morbid conditions presented by these different forms of suspended life; secondly, the pathology, general and special, of these forms; thirdly, the modes of treatment. In me- chanical obstruction of the trachea, after death, the blood is found fluid, but subsequently coagulates and docs not appear to have under- o-one any chemical change. The condition of the heart varies with the fength of time during which the death is taking place. If the death is extremely rapid, from the occlusion having been sudden and complete, there is always great engorgement of the right cavities, especially of the auricle, while the left side is firmly contracted and empty. If the death is less sudden, from the period of suffocation having been prolonged, the right cavities are full, as before, but the left also contain more or less of