llEPORT ON I'JIACX'ICAL MKDICINE. 130 Skoda.—On the Diagnosis of Pericarditis. Allg. Wieu. Ztg., viii, 1863. Sclimitlt's Jnhrb., vol. 119, p. 32. In order that retraction of the surface of the chest in systole may take place, it is necessary that the lieni't should be fixed so that it cannot glide downwards; and, further, the left lung must be fixed so as to be unable to advance forwards over the heart. The phenomenon is most marked when the heart is attached to the vertebral column behind and to the wall of the chest in front, the two layers of the pericardium being adhe- rent everywhere. If the retraction does not occur at a part of the chest wall corresponding to the apex, it does not indicate adhesion of the peri- cardium. If, for instance, the intercostal space corresponding to the base of the heart is retracted and that corresponding to the apex bulged out during systole, this only signifies that the heart moves downwards, and that the lung cannot enter into the space left by the base. Retraction of the epigastrium does not imply pericardial adhesion, unless one is sure that the heart's apex lies in the epigastrium. As to the diagnosis between pericardial exudation and enlargement of the right heart, Skoda re- marks that, omitting the case of adhesion having occurred between the heart and the pericardium, and between the latter and the wall of the chest, a considerable bulging of the wall of the chest (unless the result of rachitis) is to be regarded as a sure sign of pericardial exudation. Friction sounds and feeble impulse of the heart indicate exudation. Signs of insufl&ciencyand stenosis of the mitral valve indicate hypertrophy of the right heart. Both conditions may coexist, and operate to produce the extended dulness. Demme, R.— On the Anatomy and Diagnosis of Myocarditis. Schweiz. Ztschr. f. Heilk., i, pp. 79, 461, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 120, p. 44. The acute parenchymatous disease, as a rule, attacks both ventricles, but the left first and most severely. The papillary and trabecular muscles are among the parts most highly affected. In two of the four cases the myocarditis was quite uncomplicated with inflammation of the endo- or peri-cardium; in the other two cases the pericarditis appeared to be the result of the primary disease. Ecchymoses in the epicardium over the principal inflammatory foci were constantly met with; they were most numerous when the coronary arteries were atheromatous. Acute myocar- ditis is not always associated with acute morbus Brightii. There is nothing pecuhar in the dropsy attendant on the heart disease. Among the symp- toms, the most constant and manifest were the decrease of the heart's energy, the loss of rhythm in its movements, increasing frequency of the pulse, steady diminution of its size, and its continuous undulatory character. For some time before death the heart's contractions were more numerous than the beats of the pulse. Systolic bellows murmur, from insufficiency of the auriculo-vent.ricular valves, occurred in three of the four cases. In two cases the first sound of the heart became indis- tinct and was lost. As the power of the heart declined the temperature sank, so that there was very little indication of fever. The twenty-four hours' amount of urine was remarkably small; the decrease was specially observable towards the close of the disease, and affected both the quahty