HEl'OllT OS TOXICOLOGY AND MATEJU.V MliDlCA. 432 turned. Tliia good effect lasted only an liouv aud a liali" and dealli occurred sixteen and a half hours after the injection of the poison. Dr. Duprc (' Guy's IIosp. Eep.,' 1863, p. 323) recommends the fol- lowing method of applying the iodic-acid test for morphia, by which ha delicacy is greatly increased. After allowing the mixture containing the iodic acid and starch and the fluid supposed to contain morphia to stand for ten minutes, a very dilute solution of ammonia is carefully poured upon its surface by means of a pipette. Two coloured ring's appear after a time at the place where the two fluids are in contact. The lower one is blue, the upper one brown. These riugs may be clearly seen in liquids containing suo^u^h. part of morphia. The brown ring alone ■ shows itself in still more dilute solutions. Aniline is men'^ tioned by Dr. Dupre as among the substances which give a somewhat similar reaction. OBGAiriC CHEMIOAX PnOBUCTS. Carbolic acid.—Dr. Grace Calvert ('Lancet,' 1863, vol. ii, p.362) de- scribes the properties and medicinal uses of carbolic acid. A solution of this substance in glycerine is stated to be a valuable topical remedy- in diphtheria; it acts as an escharotic, but its efiects do not spread to the adjacent parts. A solution of one part of the acid in forty parts of water is applied to foul and oftensive ulcers with good effect, as it removes all disagreeable smell. A stronger solution may be made by mixing two drachms of the acid with one drachm of liquor potassa? and half a pint of water. A case of wound of the fingers is recorded in this paper, in which carbolic acid appears to have been of service in check- ing sloughing. Dr. Calvert suggests its use in phthisis, the acid being both swallowed in solution, and also inhaled into the lungs, the breath being drawn through an apparatus containing cotton-wool saturated with it. According to Gratiolet and Lemaire, it has a powerful in- fluence in arresting those fermentations which depend on the develop- ment of cryptogamic life, while it does not interfere with those which are of a purely chemical kind, such as the conversion of amygdaline into hydruret of benzoile. Creasotc.—According to the ' Presse Medicale Beige,' by the addition of ten parts of collodion to fifteen parts of creasote, a gelatinous mass is formed, which is easier of application to a carioiis tooth than the creasote alone, and has the further advantage of protecting the dental nerve from the air. AniUnc.—Dr. Letheby (' Pharm. Journ.,' vol. v, p. 130) gives an account of the physiological properties of nitro-benzole and aniline. He says that in every manufactory where these substances are prepared on a large scale their peculiar narcotic effects are often observed. The vapours mixed with the air are breathed by the workmen, and cause dis- tressing headache aud a heavy, sleepy sensation; but these eflects are usually quickly removed by iresh air aud stimulants. Two fatal cases of poisoning by nitro-benzole are, however, recorded. The one is that of a boy, aged seventeen years, who received a little of the liquid into his mouth while sucking at a siphon; tlie other occurred in a man, forty-