AllSENlC. 409 primarily on the lungs, and that particles of an insoluble mineral com- pound become precipitated within the blood, and cause impaction of the branches of the pulmonary artery. Carbonate of baryta was given to a rabbit in increasing doses. "When the quantity amounted to three grains daily, symptoms first appeared. Five hours after the poison was swallowed the animal was found lying motionless, with the respiration much quickened. Sensation appeared to be diminislied. The difficulty of respiration and the paralysis in- creased, and the temperature fell, till in six hours the animal died. Small coagula were found in the branches of the pulmonary artery, which under the microscope were seen to be crowded with inorganic particles. Portions of the lung-substance were firm, not crepitating, and redder than the normal tissue. Miliary ecchymoses were found on the surface of the lungs, and also in the stomach. Other experiments gave similar results. Baryta was detected chemically in the lungs in every instance, and in the liver once; never in the brain, spinal cord, kid- neys, or muscles. Granules of sulphate of baryta appear to be deposited in the blood, in consequence of the reaction of the sulphates contained in that fluid with the soluble salt of baryta absorbed, but the presence of fibrin is necessary for these granules to become aggregated into masses. If carbonate of baryta be placed beneath the skin of a rabbit, so that the animal cannot get the poison into its mouth by licking, no effects are produced; and the substance is afterwards found encysted or enclosed in an abscess. But chloride of barium, being soluble, acts as a poison when applied endermically, and its effects are best studied in this way, for death is not then so rapid. It is admitted that wlien the baryta salt is given in a large single dose, these characteristic appearances are not to be discovered. Convulsions were never observed among the effects of salts of baryta, though it is not denied that they may occur when the dose given is very large. The symptoms always commence in the lungs, the respiration becomes quicker and less deep, and the inspiratory murmur is inaudible ; the heart's action, however, becomes more fre- quent. Afterwards restlessness is noticed, with loss of power, which at last amounts to paralysis. Exactly similar efi'ects were produced by the administration of oxalate of ammonia to rabbits. The appearances found after death are also the same. Oxalic acid is detected in the lungs, and oxalate of lime crystals are contained in the coagula which occupy the interior of the pulmonary artery. ARSEIflC. Kebcr ('Casper,' xxiii, p. 271; xxiv, p. 131) records ten cases of poisoning by arsenic, some of which present points of interest. The first is that of a man and his wife, to whom the poison was repeatedlj'- administered in small doses, producing transitory irritant symptoms. After a time both began to suff'er from ansosthesia of the hands and feet, so tliat pricking and pinching them produced no effect. They also complained that their limbs felt as if they did not belong to them. In addition, the man suff"ered from muscular weakness, flnding it difficult to rise from his seat, and walking in a heavy, clumsy manner, as if his