11 BLOOD. the blood like tlie filter. The results of his recent investigations thus entirely confirm the views of inflammation to which he was led by his previous studies (see the ' Philosophical Transactions,' 1858). Lister does not find that the healthy vessels or other tissues exert a positively restraining power over a spontaneous tendency to coagula- tion naturally existing in the blood, but holds that they are simply negative in this respect, and that unliving matter exerts a disturbing —as it were, a catalytic—influence, which induces coagulation. The test used by Thiry, to determine the ammonia in the fluids, was that recommended by Nessler—a solution of iodide of merciu-y in iodide of potassium, rendered strongly alkaline by potash. He employed also hfematoxylin paper to confirm his results. The blood Avas conveyed, without access to the air, beneath an exhausted receiver, and afterwards atmospheric air, previously passed over SO.,, was driven through it. No ammonia was given off" from the blood at the temperature of the body; it was given oif, however, when the blood was heated to 5o° C. (122° Fahr.), and more abundantl}'- at 70° (158° Fahr.) There is no difference between arterial and venous blood, nor does that of the portal vein contain any excess. Coagulation took place, without any escape of ammonia, in blood from which ammonia was afterwards obtained by heat. The form in which ammonia exists in the blood is probably that of the lactate, a solution of this salt alone among the salts of ammonia giving similar results. In the urine ammonia exists in a similar form. In mammalia the expired air is richer in ammonia than the iusj)ired; in frogs this is not the case. Observing that the composition of fibrin diff'ered from that of albumen by the substitution of i"_5 part of oxygen per 100 for a similar amount of carbon, nitrogen, hydrogen, sulphur, and phospho- rus conjoined, Smee passed a current of 0 through various albuminous fluids, to ascertain whether fibrin could be thus produced from them. His conclusions are—(i) fibrin is produced by the direct action of oxygen on albumen; (2) the alkalies aud alkaline salts prevent the appearance of fibrin when albumen is acted upon by oxygen; (3) the formation of fibrin from albumen is accompanied by the evolution of sulphur, phosphorus, and carbonic acid; (4) a temperature ranging be- tween 98° and 110° Fahr. promotes the artificial formation of fibrin; (5) greatest amount of fibrin appears when the albumen is neutral, or slightly acid; (6) the viscidity of the material employed promotes the formation of fibrin; (7) albumen artificially digested in gastric juice produces fibrin by its subsequent oxidation, even after dialysis; (8) gluten dissolved in gastric juice, and then oxidized at the ordinary temperature, yields fibrin. Pauum has repeated and carried farther the often tried experi- ments on transfusion. The results he has arrived at, so far as they bear on physiology, are chiefly the following :—(i) The defibrination of the blood, even Avhen all the natural blood of the animal is replaced by defibrinated blood from another of the same kind, brings no notable