UEPOUT ON SlIDWIFERV, ETC. 318 miuutes are sufficieut for the thermometer to reach-its highest standard; moreover, the iiistrumeut docs uot cause any iiiconveuieuce to the women, whetlier they lie ou the back or on the side. The questions then arose whether the canal of the vagina might not be too wide during labour to allow an accurate deteraiination of the temperature to be made, and whether conclusions as to the temperature of the whole body could bo drawn from tlie local hyperajmia of the vagina. It therefore became necessary to make comparative observations on the temperature in the axilla and in tlie vagina. These gave the following results:—(ist) That if all other circumstances, such as clothing, air, food, &c., remained the same, the difference between the temperature of the axilla and of the vagina was nearly constant, that of the latter being o'i° to 0-4° C. higher than that of the former; (2nd) that if variations occur in. this difference, they almost always depend ou the greater variations of the temperature of the skin ; (3rd) that even if con- siderable morbid conditions of the vagina and uterus were present, which generally occurred after, but not during birth, there was almost always a constant ratio between, the temperature of both places, so that it was clear we might, during and after parturition, draw just as certain conclusions as to the temperature of the blood from the heat of the vagina as from that of the axilla. In 100 observations made in women who were in the last two months of pregnancy, the author found the mean temperature of the vagina, between 9 and 10 a.m., to be ioo'67° !Pahr.; and between 5 and 7 p.m., 10079°. T^^t-s remained the same during the whole of the last two months, and did not even increase during the last few hours before labour. In one case only a slight increase of tem- perature occurred in the evenings of the last four days before labour. The expectation, therefore, of being able to determine the advent of labour by the thermometer was not fulfilled. In the first period of labour it is not difl&cult to ascertain the tem- perature of the vagina; during the second stage, if the head descends rapidly, the thermometer is sometimes expelled; but where the head advances slowly, or where it remains fixed for some time, we may, even during the second period, determine the temperature without much difficulty. Premature rupture of the membranes is avoided by intro- ducing the globe in an oblique direction towards one or other synchon- drosis, below the posterior labium of the oa uteri. In drawing conclusions from the facts observed, the normal daily variations of temperature must be considered. Animal heat increases, under ordinary circumstances, from 2 to 10 a.m., and decreases from 10 a.m. till 2 p.m.; it then again rises from a till 6 p.m., and decreases from 6 p.m. till 2 a.m. Muscular activity perceptibly increases the temperature, according to Davy, by 3°—7°C.; and inasmuch as muscular action continually in creases as labour progresses, we should expect a marked increase of temperature, especially in primiparse. But many circumstances concur during labour to regulate, and jeven diminish, the temperatiu-e. The majority of parturient women take little or no food during labour, but, correspond- ingly with the increased action of the skin, most of them only ask for cooling drinks, by which animal heat is diminished. Moreover, inspira-