421 ORGANIC SUBSTAKCES. face is au indication that the latex is abundant. Bernatzilc thinks that the resin and starch are produced together from some third substance in plants in a state of vital activity, while in badly-nourished plants it is converted into woody fibre and cellulose. Hence, he believes that cultivation favours the formation of latex and starch ; and he thinks that the larger part of the jalap of commerce comes from plants which have been cultivated for tlie purpose. A series of experiments was made by him on his pupils, for the pur- pose of ascertaining what is the smallest dose of jalaji which acts as a purgative. This effect was first produced by a dose of fourteen grains, and was never wanting when the quantity given exceeded a scruple. A mean dose of i7'8 grains produced, on the average, two evacuations. A mean dose of 2'6 grains of the resin produced the same efiect. Bernatzik concludes that the root is more active than would be expected from the amount of resin which is present in it. He supposes that this arises from the root containing the resin in a more finely divided state, so that it is more easily acted on by the intestinal fluids. That the resin is the only purgative principle in the tuber is shown by the fact that seven drachms and a half of the powdered drug, from which the resin* had been completely extracted by alcohol, produced no effect when swal- lowed in three doses at intervals of four hours, beyond some gastric uneasiness after the last dose. Slight and transient nausea and colicky pain were produced in most of these experiments, besides the purgative effect. The smooth date- and pear-shaped tubers were found equally active with the rounded, knobby forms; but those pear-shaped ones which were shrivelled pro- duced less effect, a mean dose of twenty-two and a half grains being required to purge. This variety of the drug often resembles withered pears so exactly, that one can believe the statements that this fruit has been used as a substitute for the tuber. The thin, stalk-like masses are remarkably deficient in purgative action, though the quantity of resin which they contain is large. Of the two substances of which the resin is made up, the part insoluble in ether (convolvulin, rhodeoretin) is by far the more active. When pure, it is white, tasteless, and resembles gum-arabic in appear- ance. A dose of 2"2 grains is the smallest which acts as purgative. The other substance, pararhodeoretin, which is soluble in ether, is com- paratively inert; and tlie effects which it does produce are shown by Bernatzik to depend on its containing some convolvulin. This para- i-hodeoretin forms the greater part of the resin of the stalk-like speci- mens of jalap, and this accounts for their slight purgative powers. It is considered to be the same substance as the rhodeoretin, but in an imperfect state. Some experiments were also made to test the value of the false jalap the resin of which is said by Spirgatis to be identical with that of scam- mony. Twenty-two and a half grains of the powdered drug, and three grains of the nearly pure resin, were found to be the mean doses, which produced two evacuations. The best Aleppo scammony to be obtained in Vienna was found to be comparatively inactive. Nearly half of it was left undissolved by