KEPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 458 useful, is to reduce the inflammation by poultices, and then to wash the part affected with a solution of subncetate of lead in weak alcohol. Mr. Tliyson recommends the application of a solution of nitrate of silver. By observing proper care, tlie workmen avoid these results of the contact of the bichromate of potass with the skin. In those who are insufficiently clad another effect has been observed. Violent itching of the skin and suppuration of the moist part of the penis are produced. Similar local effects are observed in animals which enter the manufac- tory of this salt. Inflammation of the foot, with separation of the hoof, occurs in horses which tread in water containing the bichromate; and dogs, cats, and rats are also affected. The effects produced by this manufacture were first observed at an establishment near Havre ; but Mr. Thyson, of Baltimore, has written to confirm these statements in every essential particular. It is not yet known whether similar symptoms are produced in the workmen employed in this occupation in England and Germany. At Baltimore a piece of sponge is placed in each nostril, and this is found to protect the men from the action of the salt on the nose. In the Frencli manufactory only those men who have already lost the nasal aperture are allowed to enter the cliambers in which the ebullition of the salt takes place; but even then the affection is often caused in other workmen by their introducing the end of the finger, covered with the bichromate, into the nostrils. It is necessary to add that MM. Becourt and Chevallier do not state that they have verified these statements, or that any surgeon has done so. Caoutchouc souffle.—M. Delpech had already pointed out the injurious action of the bisulphide of carbon on workmen M'ho use it in their busi- ness. He now ('Ann. d'Hyg.,' 1863, Jan., p. 65) investigates these effects as they show themselves in those who make the coloured balls con- taining gas which are sold as toys. In preparing them, a hollow globe, the size of a walnut, is made of caoutchouc. This is then dipped for two minutes into a liquid containing sulphide of carbon, with a small quan- tity of chloride or bromide of sulphur. The effect of this operation is to soften the caoutchouc, and to give it the peculiar impermeability which enables it to be blown into a large globe. A small quantity of the vapour of the sulphide of carbon is diffused into the workshops, and may always be detected by the smell. The men are subject to symptoms of a peculiar kind, which are divisible into two periods, though in many cases mixed forms are observed. A stage of excitement is first produced, charac- terised by headache, pains and cramps in the limbs, giddiness, and dim- ness of sight. The mind is also disturbed; there is loquacity, causeless laughter, or weeping; and even mania may occur. Epileptic convulsions have been observed in two cases, and frequently during experiments on animals. The gustatory sense is often perverted, everything tasting of sul- phur. Menorrhagia is not infrequent in women, and great excitement of the sexual desires in men. This condition is followed by a period of depression. The symptoms are now the following:—lowness of spirits, somnolence, loss of memory, ansesthesia of the skin, dimness of sight, and deafness. The sexual functions are especially perverted; there is impotence, with loss of desire and of the power of erection. In a boy who had been employed in one of these workshops from the age of ten, the