831 EVIIi EFFECTS OF TENOTOMY. paralysis or in debility of certain other muscles. If, in such instances, it be endeavoured to restore the balance of the limb by dividing the tendons of the still active muscles, the consequences are very disastrous; but even orthopasdists do not often now, I believe, tenotomize such, cases, although no more efficient apparatus than the old jointed iron and Scarpa's shoe appears to be employed in that special practice. " Now, the difficulty of overcoming a contracted muscle being, as I have already remarked, in exact proportion to its strength, it follows that it is most difficult, or indeed, all but impossible, to overcome the sural muscles, those attached to the tendo Achillis. Hence division of that tendon is a most valuable, an all but indispensable, resource in all deformities of the equinal or extended varieties ; and it happens that the tendon is so situated and surrounded, that not only is its division, but also its reunion, extremely easy. So remarkably is this the case, that it requires a diligent application of ignorant management to produce a non-union of this tendon. But are the other tendons, whose section is so constantly performed, thus easily reunited ? This question occurred to me rather more than four years ago, when I was struck by observing on a patient, who had long before been freely tenotomized secundum artem, that several movements of his foot were very feeble and uncertain. Since then it has fallen to my lot to see several feet in the same circumstances, both as to apparent cause and effect, but the full solution of the question only presented itself about a year ago." After referring to some experiments on dogs by M. Bouvier, the author continues:—"It may easily be averred that experiments on animals cannot be relied on as proof of what happens in man. Post- mortem examinations after tenotomy, moreover, are not common; but Mr. William Adams has been able to gather together, in his book on the ' Eeparative Process in Human Tendon,' the results of thirteen autopsies. In this number there are six in which the tendo Achillis only was divided, a tendon which should never do badly. There are, therefore, seven cases in which other tendons were also divided and in every one of them one or more of the severed tendons is either not united at aU or is adherent to the bone or surrounding parts, so as to abolish the action of the muscle. In no one instance, in which the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum, one or both, were divided, did they so unite as to be of the slightest use, Avhile the tibialis anticus is more exposed to extinction by non-union than by false union. Now, these are the only accounts of examination in the human body of the actual effects of tenotomy upon tendons other than the tendo Achillis. The results are confirmed by experiment. What conclusion is to be drawn from them but that such muscles as the tibialis posticus, flexor longus digitorum, and probably also the peronei (which are similarly placed behind the leg-bones), might as well be struck with sudden and irremediable paralysis as be subjected to the knife of the tenotomist; and that, moreover, other tendons—those in front of the foot—are only a little better off in this particular? Under such circumstances the phrase made use of at the commencement of this paper—that tenotomy fre- quently produces lameness, less apparent, perhaps, but certainly more incurable, than the original disease—is, I hold, fully justified." '