412 llEPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATKUIA MEUICA. effects of tartar emetic on animals. It did not exert a uniform contra- stimulant influence. The depressing action on the circulation, respira- tion, and nervous system, though tlie most striking, is not the most constant of its effects. "When given in a dose of "15 to 6 grains, it at first augments the rapidity of the pulse and respiration by a tenth, and produces a little nervous excitement. This state lasts fifteen or twenty minutes. It is not observed wlien the dose is very large (15—30 grains), and when no vomiting occurs. It is followed by a period of depression ; the pulse becomes slower, and the respiration also; the temperature is lowered, especially on the surface; and there is a marked collapse of the nervous functions. This stage has a mean duration of three or four hours ; it is never absent. Succeeding it a state of reaction is observed, in which the pulse and respiration again become somewhat more rapid than in health, and the temperature rises. This febrile condition appears to be caused by the organic lesions which are found after death, and it is generally fatal. If the dose be either very large or very small, it does not occur. The nervous symptoms observed in these experi- ments were connected chiefly with sensation; the motor power of the muscles and nerves, though diminished, was less affected. On post- mortem examination of the animals experimented on, irritation and in- jection of the stomach and intestines, and also of the liver, kidneys, brain, and muscles, were observed. The antimony was detected in the liver. The blood was always diffluent, especially when the poison had been given in large doses. Comparing tartar emetic with ipecacuanha, Pecholier finds that the latter causes a more rapid depression, which very soon threatens life, but passes off quickly, and is not followed by the same dangerous reaction. The antimonial action, on the other hand, is slower, more profound, more lasting, and, when a certain limit has been passed, progresses almost certainly to death. It does not, like ipecacuanha, destroy the glycogenic function of the liver; on'the other hand, ipecacu- anha does not produce the diffluent condition of the blood, nor the con- gestion of the lungs, which are fouud after the administration of the antimonial salt. lEOiir. Mr. Gury (' Jotirn. of Pract. Med. and Surg.,' Jan., 1863, art. 6372) draws attention to the decomposition which occurs in mixtures contain- ing syrup and an aqueous solution of sesquichloride of iron under the influence of light. The iron salt becomes reduced to a protochloride, and the cane sugar of the syrup is converted into grape sugar. Hence such combinations, which Mr. Grury thinks very valuable, cannot be kept, and must be freshly prepared. Under certain circumstances solutions of the sesquichloride of iron also have a peculiar action on gum. A cloudy appearance results on mixing them, and in a few hours one half the mixture is converted into a caseous paste. Tliis eflect is pro- duced only when these substances are combined in certain proportions. If the quantity of the iron salt be either too great or too small, tlie mixture remains undecomposed. M. Toucher ('Union Med.,' No. 42, 1863) recommends the use of