SYPHILITIC DISliASES 01-' TllK NJSllVOUS SYSTBJr. 205 suppurates under peculiar circumstances, and therefore requires us carefully to distinguish a true syphilitic affection of the bone from one •which is merely secondary to an ulceration of the surrounding soft parts. The former is that of which I am now treating, and takes place quite independently of any affection of the adjacent soft sti'uctures. Our preparations will show that sometimes, instead of a caries taking place, the exudation ossifies, and thus the bone becomes much enlarged or hypertrophied ; and herein lies another argument against the afiec- tious of the osseous system being due to mercury, since the property of the latter drug is to destroy or disintegrate. No one, as far as I know, has yet considered enlargements of the bone to be due to mercury, at the same time that he has held the doctrine of the destruction of bone to be attributable to this drug. In a word, there is a disposition in syphilis to the production of an albuminous product beneath the peri- osteum and in the vascular canals of the bone. This may ossify, pro- ducing enlargement or hypertrophy of the part; or if ulceration takes place, a caries results; but here, as in the soft parts, a distinguishing feature is in the presence of a new material around it. As also in the former case, the ulceration is likely to increase from any cause tending to a disintegration of the tissues, so the caries of the bone may extend to a great degree under like circumstances, and especially under the influence of mercury. Thus are the two opinions reconciled—that all great devastation of the osseous system is met with only in those who have taken much mercury, and yet that mercury itself does not origi- nate disease of the bone." Dr. Zamhaco, on the diagnosis of syphilitic affections of the nervous system, ('Year-book,' 1862, p. 226; 'Edin, Med. Journ.,' viii, 628). —In general terms, it may be said with truth, that while no one symptom is pathognomonic of a disease being due to syphilis, the past history and a careful examination of the present condition of Islie patient are alone calculated to enable the practitioner to discover the essential cause of the malady. The question of diagnosis will, however, be more easily elucidated by taking a rapid glance at the more usual forms which the affection may assume, and observing the difi"ereut aspects it may present as it occurs in practice. In the most simple and easily recognised form we find that the nervous derangements are accompanied by other manifestations of the syphilitic diathesis, by which the attention of the practitioner is likely to be arrested. Thus at the very outset of the syphilitic cutaneous manifestations we meet with convulsions, hysterical and neuralgic affect ions. The eruptive fevers are the only diseases with which one is likely to confound the symptoms of nervous derangement which may occur during this period of the sypliilitic infection; and this mistake may be all the more easily committed when we recollect that the erup- tion of syphilis may very closely simulate variola, varicella, or roseola, while the nervous prodromata of which we are speaking usually diminish or disappear when the eruption becomes developed. On the other hand in cases of syphilis the eruption usually lasts much longer than the' exanthem of an eruptive fever, and the general nervous disorders recur again shortly after the manifestation of the specific eruption, if they