REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. BY De. C. HILTON FAGQE. CAUSES OF DISEASE. The address on Public Health by Prof. Cliristison, at the meeting of the National Association for the Promotion of Social Science, held in Edinburgli, 1863, contains some interesting views as to the causes of some forms of disease. Scotland is now altogether free from ague, yet for- merly this disease was very prevalent in some parts of the countrj% for example, in the counties of Berwick and Roxbnrgli. He doubts the cor- rectness of the theory, tliat this has arisen from the improvements in drainage, wliich occurred about the same time, for he stales that the dis- appearance of ague preceded the introduction of improved drainage. The cause of relapsing fever is, he tliinks, penury and deficiency of venti- lation. Sporadic typhus is not, in his opinion, caused by infection : at least, those cases of it which occur in the higher ranks of life, are not at- tributable to that cause, for it is found that, with the most ordinary care, the disease does not spread from the patient to those who visit or nurse him. Yet they must be far longer exposed to its influence tlian was the affected person. Equally untenable is the view that it generally originates in faulty drainage or in foul air. During the last ten years the number of cases of typhus in Edinburgh has undergone a remarkable decrease. Tlie drainage lias also been improved ; but the decrease of fever began decidedly before the commencement of that reform. Dr. Christison himself ascribes it to a change of type and constitution in epidemic disease. He also dissents from the view that enteric fever is in any way caused by faulty drainage. This form of fever lias been increasing in Edinburgh recently, while the street drains have been improved. No cases occur in or near the cele- brated "foul meadows" of Craigentinny, nor can individual cases of the disease be traced to any such cause. The causation of phthisis is then considered. He thinks that it arises chiefly from a conjunction of defective exercise and of exclusion from the open air. He then quotes the statement of Dr. Macrae, that phthisis does not occur among the natives of the western islands. In Lewis the disease is said to be entirely confined to strangers temporarily resident there, and to natives who have contracted the disease elsewhere. Those who remain in the island are exempt from it, except in a few rare instances, when it has been brought on under long privation of food and exposure to cold. Dr. McColi, of Mull, bears out this statement. It is not supported by the Scottish register; but it is admitted that this is