OSTEOJtyELITIS, S15 liectic, is relatively small. On the other hand, the diffuse form, which Avas denominated by Chassaignac "typhns des membres," is a liir more serious affection; it always threatens the life of the hone, usually pro- duces most grave constitutional disturbance, and often, when acute, endangers life by pysemia and septic poisoning, when chronic, by exhaustion. In the present essay the author treats only the spontaneous diffuse osteomyelitis of the femur, because it is the form mosc fre- quently observed, is admitted by all authors to be the most dangerous, and was least accurately and minutely described by Chassaignac. A most important foundation for the anatomy, pathology, and treatment of the disease, is furnished by seventeen cases, observed and carefully reported by the author, who has supplemented them by various other macroscopical and microscopical examinations of bones, and by the study of the different works bearing on this subject. Patliological anatomy.—There is rarely an opportunity to examine the hyperemia which accompanies the commencement of a spontaneous osteomyelitis. The redness is then mostly diffuse, uniform, more rarely in isolated spots; the medulla, which in the normal condition does not completely fill the canal, closely presses against its walls ; the hypenemia is rarely limited to the marrow of the central canal, but extends through the cancellated tissue as far as the cortical layer. At this time effu- sions of blood are generally found both in the medullary canal, and in the cancelli of the spongy bone; some of them arise from traumatic causes or rheumatic congestions, others from partial obliterations of vessels. At a later period extravasations occur from the walls of ves- sels becoming ulcerated. By imbibition and the development of pig- ment, changes in colour are usually induced at an early period; they have, by many authorities, been considered the result of septic inflam- mations. The duration of the stage of congestion varies in different cases. The most common terminations of the circumscribed form are suppuration or tuberculization; cases are, however, by no means rare, in which osteoporosis and sclerosis result. Many authors confound the changes produced by osteomyelitis with those arising from genuine osteitis and caries. The author considers it important to remember that the changes in the osseous tissue which are denominated caries, must be anatomically referred to two different processes :—i, to primary changes and proliferations of the medulla (the term being understood in its widest sense), and especially of the con- nective tissue accompanying the vessels in the Haversian canals. This process is one of interstitial osteomyelitis (in opposition to the central osteomyelitis essentially limited to the tissue of the central medullary canal) ; 2, to a proliferation of pus-cells, or of granulations proceeding from the bone-cells (bone-ulceration in the sense of Virchow). Clini- cally these forms, owing to their mutual combinations, cannot be <listinguished. In respect to diffuse osteomyelitis, the author states—-(i) that there is a piire osteomyelitis diffusa, causing suppuration, tuberculization, necrosis, or sclerosis, which is anatomically allied to the circumscribed form, and only differs from it by the wider extent of the disease, by