TIEPOHT ON MIDWIFEHy, ETC. 390 reach. The author believes the use of the ligature alone will ere long become nearly obsolete, and, from a review of the cases given in this report, as well as of those recorded by Dr. Hamilton, Dr. 11. Lee, and others, thinks we are justified in drawing the following conclusions as to the bad consequences whicli may result from the use of the ligature :— I. Death may occur before "the ligature has cut through the neck of the polypus, even in cases where this has not been unusually delayed, and where no part of the uterus has been included in the ligature. 3. In some cases, death has been caused by the supervention of peritonitis. 3. In other cases uterine phlebitis, ending in death, has succeeded the application of the ligature. 4. In not a few instances the fatal issue has apparently been attributable to a kind of low toxceraic fever, or constitutional irritation. 5. Pelvic abscess, with its attendant dangers, is a result to be apprehended. 6. Phlegmasia dolens of one or both legs may foUow the employment of the ligature. Dr. Braxton Hicks records a case of intra-uterine polypus removed by his wire-rope e'craseur, after the cervix had been dilated by means of the stem of the Laminaria digatata, or common sea tangle (' Med. Times and Gaz.' vol. i, 1863, p. 109); Dr. Cockle, a case of large pedunculated fibrous polypus (ibid., vol. ii, p. 484). Prof Simon, of Eostock ('Mon. f. Geb.' Dec, 1862), proposes a new method of removing large fibrous polypi from the uterus, the base of which is so large that application of the ligature or ecraseur is im- possible. The essential point in the excision of such tumours is the diminution of their circumference, for by this only can the pedicle be reached. This method consists in making a series of transverse inci- sions in the capsule of the tumour, and then by traction elongation is effected, and the tumour so thinned that the pedicle can be reached without difficulty by the finger and instrument. This elongation of the polypus at the expense of its thickness is de- pendent on that property of the fibres of fibrous polypi by which they are enabled to be drawn out and separated from each other in large bundles, as soon as the unyielding investment, the hypertrophied sub- mucous cellular tissue of the uterus, is divided to a sufficient extent. The operation is performed by seizing the point of the polypus with the vulsellum, drawing it down, and then making free and deep transverse incisions into the body of the tumour, with a long and sharp-pointed pair of Cooper's scissors, luitil the unyielding capsular parts beyond the first incision are divided, and a sufilcient reduction of the size of the tumour is obtained. The haemorrhage is slight, and soon ceases after the removal of the polypus. Three cases are related in which this operation was performed with success. Dr. Alfred Hegar, of Darmstadt, relates a case in which this operation was modified. The tumour was chiefly intra-uterine, extending one inch and a quarter beyond the cervix, with its whole cir- cumference adherent to the uterine walls. The adhesions were divided by scissors as far as possible, the point of the scissors was then turned directly on the tumour itself, which was cut, first in front, and then on the side, in a circular direction, so as to form a spiral series of cuts,