316 nEl'OIlT ox SUllGERY. was so groat, tliiit it lias beeu generally regarded with disfavour. " Now, liowever, all this is changed. The experience of the last ten years, has abundantly shown that almost every case of vesico-vaginal fistula, even when atttMided with great loss of substance, may be firmly and permanently closed by the improved plastic procedures now in use. We may tiierefore very fairly feel confidence in our ability to close the clean longitudinal incision made for the extraction of a stone; which is attended by uo loss of substance, and with no cicatricial contraction or induration." " Vaginal lithotomy, immediately followed by suture, possesses, in my opinion, many and great advantages. Perhaps there is no part of the vesical parietes, whicii may be incised with so little risk. The in- cision being in the median line, no vessels of any magnitude are likely to be wounded. The vesico-vaginal septum is composed of dense tissue, little, if at all, liable to urinary infiltration, and the free outlet pro- vided for the urine would, even under other circumstances, render sucli an occurrence improbable. The chance of pelvic cellulitis is, therefore, remote. The peritoneum is not likely to be injured, for even if the incision required to be carried as far back as the attachment of the vagina to the cervix uteri, the vesico-uterine reflexion of the peritoneum is situated nearly an inch higher up. Veipeau, in his inquiry into the historj' of the operation, seems to have been struck W'ith its great im- munity from danger, and with the slight degree of constitutional dis- turbance which it entails; in fact, he did not meet with the record of a single fatal case." Mr. Lane urges that the urethra " should on no account be interfered with. The incision should commence just behind the neck of the bladder ; that is to say, in an adult person at least an inch and a quarter behind the external orifice of the urethra. Incision of the urethra gives no additional room, but increases the length of the wound without any compensating advantage whatever, and the uretljral portion of the wound is incomparably more difficult to close than that which is deeper in the vagina. " The conclusion wliich I have formed is that in an adult female, and e&pecially in the case of a large stone, lithotomy through the vagina, conducted on proper principles, and followed by immediate closure of the wound, is the safest and best procedure that has as yet been devised, and deserves to be accepted as a recognised operation in surgery. It should be understood, however, that it is not applicable to children; neither is it well adapted for young unmarried women, in whom the difficulties of this operation must necessarily be greatly increased." As to tlie other modes by which a stone may be removed from the female bladder, the author considers that the high operation should be " dismissed altogether from the practice of surgery. The only con- ceivable case in which it would be justifiable would be, perhaps, one in ■which, with a deformed pelvis and a very large stone, extraction per vaginam was impossible." " Urethral dilatation should be only practised in cases where the stone is of small size. To fix a maximum, I would say, in an adult, not larger, certainly, than an acorn, and in a child not larger than a horsebean."