IIKPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 20 ascribed to the direct bIiocIc. Goltz fouud that iu certain water-froga he could temporarily stop tlie heart by quickly tapping the abdomen, as, e.y., by a rapidly revolving spatula. The stoppage was diastolic, precisely like that produced by irritation of the vagi; it could be pre- vented by destroying the central origin of tiie vagi, or by tying boUi of them. That the eil'cct was not due to direct sliock was proved by its not occurring if the tapping was applied to the head or spine ; it was l>roduccd witli extreme readiness by tapping the exposed stomacli or bowels. In the latter way the respiration also may be speedily stopped, and tlic frog reduced to a state of apparent death, iu which condition no rellex movements can be excited by irritation of the iieart. By irritation of the nerves of the viscera the same effects could not be constantly produced. Acetic acid or hot iron applied to the ex- tremities produced stopping of the heart, but through the blood, and not reflexly. The bearing of these facts on pathology is manifest. In reference to the effect of throwing a frog on the ground, the stoppage is systolic (tetanus) if it be done Avith violence; diastolic, with relaxa- tion of all the muscles, if more gently: the result is the same wlien the brain and cord are destroyed. With i-eference to the checking function of the vagi on the heart, Goltz urges—against Browu-Soquard's idea, that they act by con- tracting its nutritive vessels—that in the yento cavte and sinus of the frog's heart no such contractile vessels are to be found, and yet these are the most important parts iu reference to its contraction, and their motion is at once checked by irritation of the vagus. The sensitive fibres, and those by which the checking function is exercised, are not the same; woorara paralyses the latter, and not the former. Goltz is of opinion that through the vagi an influence is exerted on the ganglia of the heart, like that of concussion in respect to the brain and cord. Having tied a ligature around the auricles iu a frog until the ven- tricles came to a standstill, he then cut the ligature again. The ventricles remained at rest, choked with blood ; the auricles continued pulsating. He then violently galvanized the medulla oblongata; the ventricles began again to contract, the auricles stood still. This result he ascribes to a paralysis of the vagi in respect to the ventricles, from the efiect of the ligature. lleiset's experiments were made with a view to agricultural rather than to physiological results. The animals—calves, slieep, pigs, tin-keys and geese—Avere enclosed iu an apparatus to which fresh oxygen was gradually supplied, the COg being withdrawn by means of a solution of potasli; the air was kept in constant motion. With sheep and calves, the general results were the same. Prom 86 to 99-4 per cent, of the oxygen consumed was given off in the form of CO.,; there was an exhalation of nitrogen, and of proto-carburet of hydrogen. From y to 17 grammes of carbon (from 140 to 260 grains) were burnt in the hour. With pigs, the results were very different; little or no nitrof^en was exhaled; a boar of eiglit mouths absorbed a demi-litre. Scarcely any carburctted hydrogen was produced ; iu one case, 8 litres 'jf free hydrogen (i4'o8 pint.*) were given ofi'. For 100 parts of O