187 WOUNBS. WOUKDS. M. Morel-Lavalloe has directed his attention for many j^ears to trau- matic detachments of the skin and subjacent tissues ('Arch. Gen.,' 1863, i, 20, 172, 300). Such detachments of the skin are produced by bodies presenting a large surface and dragging the skin in an oblique or tangential direction, thus tearing through its attachments to the fascia ; the passage of a wheel over a limb is the most common cause ; direct pressure or blows produce contusion, and not separation of the skin. The pouches of skin, which are thus formed, vary much in size j the author has met witli cases in which the separation extended over the whole inferior extremity, from the foot to the crest of the ilium. Effusion into them is extremely slow, and the amount exceedingly small; the cavity never becomes full; thus, many days after an accident, the author has found scarcely fifty grammes in a cavity which would hold more than ten litres. The fluid generally presents the characters of serum, sometimes limpid as water, sometimes more or less reddened by blood. Such cases are characterised by the small quantity of fluid contained in a large cavern ; the swelling is diff"used, appears in depen- dent spots, and changes its position when the part is moved; the extent of the cavity can be accurately measured by pressing the fluid in difierent dii'ections; when the fluid is collected into one part, percussion causes a slight undulation; there is no fluctuation unless the fluid is pressed into one corner. It is sometimes of great import- ance to recognise this condition; thus, in a case of fracture of the foot requiring amputation, where the integuments of the leg and thigh are extensively separated, it will be necessary to perform the operation at a point nearer the trunk, for otherwise the knife will divide integu- ments certain to mortify. Although the fluid increases with extreme slowness, it has even less tendency to reabsorption; it becomes en- cysted, and thus of indefinite duration; the patients generally die in a state of stupor when the skin is extensively separated. Putrid suppura- tion soon occurs when, owing to a wound or slough, the external air penetrates into these vast caverns. Intercurrent erysipelas is also to be feared. In simple cases the treatment consists of—(i) evacuation of the liquid by means of an exploring trochar; (2) blisters, which should be applied in succession over the cavity, and be quickly healed up; (3) compression over the blister by some elastic material. Where a wound communicates with the cavity, it should be closed if primary union can be hoped for ; in other cases it must be enlarged, placed in a dependent position, or counter-apertures must be made, as the occasion may require. Relief of pain.—"W. Detmold says, in his " Lectures on Military Surgery" ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1862, ii, 347), "You will occasionally encounter wounded, in a high state of nervous excitement and exalta- tion, who complain of the most acute and exquisite pain, much more than, under ordinary circumstances, such a wound would lead you to suppose. This may arise from an excited and exalted state of the nervous system, or may be from the laceration and irritation of some