127 CIRCUL^VTOKY SYSTEM. liEGBiE, J. Wahburton, M.U.— On the Biagnostic Value of an Accentu- ated Cardiac Second Sound. Edin. Med. Journ., June. The author finds, as the result of careful observation, that, excluding the accentuated pulmonary second sound and the intensified aortic second sound in some cases of hypertrophy and dilatation of the left ventricle, the accentuated second sound in the aorta is an indication of aortic aneurism or of dilatation of the aorta associated with atheromatous degeneration. If it be the former, the aneurism probably does not arise \yithiu the pericardium, and probably does not afi'ect the ascending por- tion of the arch, but has most likely its seat in the transverse portion. To distinguish betvi'een the two—in other words, to know when the accentuated second sound is due to aneurism and when to dilatation of the aorta—is not always easy. Reliance is chiefly to be placed on the associated physical signs in the former case, more particulai-ly promi- nence, pulsation, extended percussion dulness, and the signs of internal pressure. If atheromatous dilatation exist, and that is the special condi- tion, independent of aneurism, which gives rise to the accentuated second sound, there will probably be more or less pulsation in the jugular fossa, atheromatous condition of superficial pulses (radials, temporal arteries, &c.) noticeable, and probably the arcus senilis. The following points appear to be of importance in endeavouring to explain the mechanism of an accentuated second sound, under the circumstances now considered, (i) The condition of the vessel, both in cases of aneurism and of dilata- tion with atheromatous degeneration, being such as greatly to diminish, if not to destroy, the support given to the circulation by the artery, these results are increased recoil of blood on the closing or closed valves. (2) It is possible that a morbid condition of the valvular apparatus itself heightens or intensifies the sound. The valves are not incompetent, but in such cases they are sometimes found thickened, and even presenting a hard surface at parts. (3) Something may be due to the increased calibre of the vessel, in connection with the altered condition of its inter- nal tunic, in causing the peculiarity of sound. Kaulioh.—On Diseases of the Organs of Circulation, as observed at Prague, in Prof. JakscICs Clinic. Prag. Vjhrschr., Ixxiii, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. i (7, p. 291. Kaulich states, as regards endocarditis, that the diagnosis was founded more on consecutive clinical phenomena than on the presence of any murmur. He considers that everything is to be regarded as a murmur, which is usually designated as an indefinite, extended, or diffused sound^ though it may by no means justify the assumption that the valves are incompetent. When there exists mitral insufficiency, the phenomena of which may in general be considered as those of obstruction, besides the breadth of the cardiac dulness, it is especially important to determine the existence of dilatation of the right auricle. This is indicated by an empty percussion sound, situated at the left border of the sternum, at the level of the third or second rib, over an extent of about an inch. Sometimes, also, in the second left intercostal space, there is a pulsation not quite synchronous with the heart's impulse, belonging to the commencement of the dilated pulmonary artery. During and im-