879 TUBNING. seize the knee. But in Germany it has been shown for some years past by "Wigand, Mattei, Stoltz, Martin, and Carl Esterle, that it is possible to rectify entirely from the outside abnormal positions of the foetus, and by the last two professors it has been employed in many cases. But Carl Esterle seems to have principally adopted this method some weeks before labour was expected, and Martin insists in its use— ist, that immediate delivery be not called for ; 2nd, that there be a capa- cious pehas; 3rd, no active pains; and 4th, that the child be living. Now, it is evident that these conditions cannot be granted if we wish to practise this method in the midst of labour or in urgent cases. In- debted, then, to the Germans for the discovery of the mobility of the foetus from the outside, and to our own countrymen for the plan of pushing on the child by one or two fingers through the os, the author proceeds to show how, by the simultaneous application of these two plans, each acting upon opposite ends of the foetus, a degree of certainty aud celerity may be obtained, of which each alone is entirely incapable. The principles upon which the author's plan is based are—ist. The mobility of the child in vitero, varying according to the activity of the uterus. 2nd. The fact that in transverse presentations the knee is almost immediately over the os uteri, and that the foot is close to the breech, and will be found upon it when this presents. 3rd. The ease with which, in transverse presentations, the head can be directed either back to the os or to the fundus of the uterus. Podalic version of the child, in ordinary head presentations, is efi'ected by pressing on one side of the breech at the fundus by a series of gentle palpations, or by a gliding pressure on the abdominal parietes, so as to follow up the foetus as it recedes lender the impulse, by the continuance of which the breech is brought to the middle of the uterus on one side; at the same time the head is pushed up by one or two fingers in the os, so as to raise it above the brim to the middle of the uterus on the other side. The child being thus more or less transverse, the knee can, in most cases, be easily seized; if not, the breech must be depressed still more, and the foot secured. Turning will sometimes be simplified if, as soon as the head is above the brim, we pass the outside hand beneath it, and t)ush it up from the outside alternately with the depression of the jreech. If the os will only admit one finger, the foot can yet be re- tained by pressing it with that finger against the anterior part of the OS, because here the pubes will assist in supporting the pressure. Sup- posing the position cannot be distinctly made out, if the head be placed at some distance from the centre of the os, then the head sliould be pressed to that side to which it inclines, and the breech to the opposite; but if the head be nearly central, and the position be not known, then the breech should be pressed towards the right side and the head to the left. In the early stage of transverse presentations the case will generally be the easiest of any requiring version, and here the external depression of the breech is so efi"ective that the necessity for introducing the whole hand is, in most cases entirely avoided; but where the arm is prolapsed beyond the vulva, and the thorax jammed into the cavity of the pelvis, the old method should be adopted, though even in the worst cases the external depression of the breech is of great advantage.