HEPOllT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 24) SCOUTETTEN, M. U.Samperimeuis provinr/ the mectricily of the Blood in Living ylnimah. Coniptea Kendus, July aytli, and Nov. 9tl), 186,3. Scoutetten's expei-iineiits wcvc made on liorses. The right carotid artery and Icl't jugiihir veiii being exposed, and a jiortion twelve oenti- metres (4*7 incli) long isolated by ligatures, a glass tube containing a folded sheet of platinum, with a guarded wire attaciied, was inserted into each, and the current of the blood i-e-establislied through them. Every precaution w-as taken to avoid error. When the respective platinum wires were connected with the galvanometer, the needle sullercd a strong deviation; on two occasions it stood at 50"^ and 5'^. The arterial blood was positive, that is, the current passed from tlie vein to the artery. In anotber experiment, blood was received at tlie same moment from the carotid artery and the jugular vein ; the venous blood into a porous vessel surrounded by the arterial blood. The galvanometer exhibited a strong current from the former to the latter, as before. The deviation amounted to 75°, and even after coagulation it still stood at 70°. The author compares this result with that obtained by Gaugain in 18154, in respect to combustion—the curi'ent from the venous blood to the arterial corresponding to that from the carbon to the air. He infers a constant circulation of electricity throughout the most delicate network of the tissues, the arteries and veins being veritable porous vessels. On a later occasion the experiments were repeated with modifications adapted to avoid certain objections. The force of the current produced was found to equal 1-82, the electro-motor power of zinc being represented by 100, and that of a Daniell's cell by 58. Till.—KrSCULAK STSTEir. Leber, T.— On the Influence of the performance of Mechanical Work vjwn the Fatif/ne of Muscles. Henle uud Pfenfer's Zeitschrift, vol. xviii, p. 2G2. Eanke, J.—Besearches on the Chemical Conditions of the Fatigue of Muscles. Eeichert und Du Bois Eeymond's Archiv, No. 4, 1863, p. 422. Metekstein, De., and Thiet, li.—On tlie Belation of the Seat pro- duced ly Muscular Contraction to the Work performed. Henle und Pfeufer's Zeitschrift, vol. xx, p. 45. Leber asserts, as the result of his experiments, that the resistance offered to the muscle during or at the beginning of its contraction exerts the chief influence in producing fotigue; that the influence of the performance of work is doubtful, but always subordinate, and that weighting the muscle during rest does not cause fatigue. Some light may be thrown upon Leber's statements by the experi- ments of Eanke,"who tested the access and duration of the apparent exhaustion of muscles under various conditions. He proved : (r) That, after permitting the escape of the blood from an exhausted muscle, its