164 EEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. the bronchi or from rnpid extension of the infiltrntion, Tartar-emeiic nfforcls no relief unless it produces vomiting or diarrhoea. Calomel is not advisable, nor has digitalis produced good results in Skoda's hands. Opium is useful as a palliative in the case of those patients who bear it well, and in them it may be continued for some length of time. Quinine is bene- ficial in pneumonia associated with intermittent fever, and also in dyspnoea, where the action of the heart is irregular, rapid, and ineffectual, owing to exhaustion of the nerve-power. Inhalation of ether or chloro- form aflbrds momentary relief. Warm external applications give relief to many pneumonic patients, but if there is great fever and oppression they cause distress. Cold applications are only useful in traumatic pneumonia. Cold applied to the head and cold sponging is very beneficial. Nitre and similar salts have no influence over pneumonia. It does not appear that the kind of treatment, notably the employment or omission of venesection, has any influence over consecutive diseases, especially tuberculosis. Brian, R.—On the Diagnosis and Nature of certain Chronic Pulmonary Affections. Gaz. Hebd., ii, 12, 1859; 22, 24, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 169. Brian maintains that all cretaceous deposits in the lungs are not the result of tubercle, but may result from chronic inflammatory action. Dis- ease of this kind (chronic vesicular pneumonia) may very closely resemble phthisis, but is much more likely to terminate favorably. Emaciation in the non-tuberculous disease is limited to the walls of the chest; the breathing is less impeded, the expectoration is more raucous, and hsemo- ptysis is much rarer. The lower as well as the upper part of the lung may be affected, and cavities may form. The progress is steady, but very chronic. Three cases in the author's experience have terminated fatally, seven have completely recovered, nine materially improved, and three have remained stationary. ScURANT, J. M.—On Clear Percussion Sound, and its relation to Tym- panitic. Nederl. Tijdschr., p. 657, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 118, p. 326. A sound appears clear when it gives the impression of being of uniform composition ; it may proceed from a simple or a composite sounding body. A simple vibrating mass of air gives a tone, and this is always clear; also a combination of several tones always sounds clear. A clang (klang) is the entire impression made by a vibrating medium in union with a stratum of air, and this is always clear. A sound which gives no tone is a murmur. A murmur can also be simple or compound, and Savart's researches show that most murmurs contain weak tones in different proportions. A clang (klang) is deficient in a positive basal tone. Often, however, one perceives together with the murmur the accom- panying tone, and then the murmur is rendered clear (e. g. the normal lung sound). A murmur is tympanitic when it is attended by a clnJig; if this predominates over the murmur, the tympanitic sound is at the same time clear, in the contrary case the sound is dull tympanitic. Non- tympanitic, according to Skoda, is only the negation of the clang-hke quality, and consequently coincides with the idea of murmur. As a rule, such a murmur is certainly also dull, but may be also clear.