HEPOllT OX PEACTICAL MEDICI.VE. 78 mnrlced. (89) Convulsion must not be looked upon na a symptom of a congested condition of tlie cerebral veins. Proof of this is afforded by Kusninul and Tenner's experiments. (90) The peculiar condition of tiie nervous system which is known under the lumie of irritation, and whicli in the majority of cases has n great deal to do with the production of con- vulsion, is in no sense the equivalent of inflammation. The morbid con- dition of the nervous system which is known under the name of irritation may be attended by various definite symptoms, and followed by various definite results. According as it may'happen to affect the parts of the nervous system which minister to ordinary muscular movements, to com- mon or special sensation, or to vascular movements, it may be attended by tremor, convulsion, or spasm, by morbid sensation of various kinds, or by n contracted condition of the vessels. According as it may happen to have affected one or other of the parts of the nervous system which have been named, it may be followed by paralysis of the ordinary mus- cular movements, by anaesthesia or some analogous condition of special sensation, or by congestion and inflammation. Moreover, it may be at- tended by partial or general delirium, and followed by partial or general stupor or coma, if its seat happen to be in the parts of the nervous system which minister to volition and reason. Nor is it difficult to see how it should be thus attended and thus followed. The circumstances which give rise to the state of irritation in some part of the nervous system, and which favour the development of this state, are circumstances which appear to produce the revei'sal of the natural electrical relations of the exterior and interior of the nerve-fibres at the scat of irritation. It has been seen (3) that the natural electrical relations of the exterior and interior of the nerve may be reversed under circumstances which may give rise to the state of irritation in a nerve or nerve centre, and which favour the development of this state; for nothing is more certain than that mechanical injuries to a nerve or nerve centre may give rise to a state of irritation in these parts, and that a depressed condition of the vital powers generally is favorable to the deve- lopment of this morbid state. And thus there is no difficulty in supposing that the natural electrical relations of the exterior and interior of the nerve-fibres may be reversed at the seat of irritation. Now, in the case where the natural electrical relations of the exterior and interior of the nerve-fibres are preserved, all parts of the exterior of the fibres are electri- fied positively and all parts of the interior negatively, and the electric condition of the exterior and interior appears to be one of static tension so long as the nerve-fibre remains in a state of inaction (v. 6), and this appears to be the case because all parts of the exterior are electrified posi- tively and all parts of the interior are electrified negatively, for it is a law of electricity that parts electrified with similar electricity repel each other. Nor is this condition of static tension in the exterior and in the interior of the nerve-fibres neutralized by a contrary action beticeen the exterior and the interior; for there is something in the constitution of the fibres, be that what it may, which keeps the exterior and interior in opposite electric conditions, and prevents their opposite electricities from combining and neutralizing each other. But in the case where the natu- ral electrical relations of the exterior and interior are reversed in a certain part of a nerve-fibre, instead of all parts of the exterior being electrified