ItKi'OllT ON lUtACTlCAL MEDICINE, 52 only that cliilliiiess peculiar to cutarrlial fever. Children, even when they were highly feverish, did not readily take to bed. The fever ninnifested considerable dilierences, which were as follows :—(i) The temperature rose on the first day to a considerable height, fell again to the normal, and in- creased again pretty rapidly about the time of the eruption. (2) Most usually, the temperature rises steadily from the normal figure, with more or less considerable morning remissions. (3) The temperature is very high oi\ the first day.and maintains the same elevation with but sligiit remissions, till the appearance ol the eruption. In this last condition there are un- pleasant nervous symptoms, as somnolency, jactitation, delirium, wiiich indicate a grave infection, and make the prognosis more serious. With the outbreak of the e.Kant.hem the temperature reaches its maximum. This acme of the fever is not fixed to a certain time ; variations take place, which seem to stand in relation to an accelerated or retarded appearance of the e.xanthcm. In the n)ajority of all uncomplicated cases the acme happened at the beginning of the eruption, or at least within the first twenty-four hours afier the appearance of the first spots. A maximum of temperature before the outbreak of the first spots was observed only in two cases, and even in these there was only an interval of a few hours between the acme of temperature and the eruption. A maximum of temperature after the first twenty-four hours of the eruption was met with only three times. The acme of the disease lasted in the great majority of all cases not more. than twelve hours, in a few cases over twenty-four hours. When it was prolonged the disease was always severe. The following varieties were noted of the mode of decline of the feverj—(i) In tlie purest form of critical cessation of fever there occurs a rapid defervescence, which is complete in from twelve to twenty-four hours. The temperature sinks from the height of the acme rapidly and steadily down to or below the normal figure. This form of defervescence is the expression of a slight infection, which is less in proportion as the acme of the disease is brief, and the temperature docs not rise high. (2) The next foru\ is one of protracted critical termination. In the majority of cases there occurred pauses in the rapid defervescence, and the temperature sank below the normal figure, just as in croupous pneumonia. The pauses varied in length from twelve to thirty-six hours. The number of cases which manifested a critical termination of the fever was inferior to that of those which showed little or none. ( 3) The third form is that of incomplete crisis. The temperature falls at first rapidly, say rj° C. (27° Fahr.), in twenty-four hours ; afterwards it falls gradually with remissions and exacerbations, so that it takes three days to reach the normal figure. (4) The last form is that of pure lysis, which is the rarest, where no critical change is observed. Transition forms are met with between this and the others, in which the course of the fever is quite irregular. The pulse frequency for the most part follows the changes of temperature, but diff"erences between the two are not uncommon. With respect to prognosis, a fever which is uniformly high from the outset, with severe nervous phenomena, is of unfavorable omen, and so i.s a fever which runs high during the acme of the disease. A copious eruption is always more favorable under such circumstances than a scanty one. A rapid fall of the fever, after a short duration of the acme, witli a rapid dis- appearance of the exanthcm, is the ino4 favorable course that the disease