319 DISEASE OF THE ASTEAGALO-CALCANEAL JOINT. from its proximity to the ankle-joint, the latter articulation is generally looked upon as the seat of the mischief, which is really situated in the astragalo-calcaneal joint; that the signs of the beginning of mischief in the astragalo-calcaneal joint are very easy to be appreciated; that a careful attention to the history of the cases I shall relate, and the results of the treatment had recourse to, point out what course should be adopted in their management." ^ "John Bilby, ret. ,3a, collier, was admitted into Eaton Ward ot Bristol General Hospital, February 24th, 1859. History.—Re sprained his left foot about three years since by slipping oft" a metal rail underground. He worked up to seventeen weeks 'since. He had not any treatment for his foot until November 5th, 1858, when he went into the infirmary, which he left in seven weeks, on account of his wife's illness, his foot being then worse. Fresent appearance.—He was thin and pale; the left ankle was swollen. The swelling was not in the ankle-joint, but in a line corre- sponding to the astragalo-calcaneal articulation; it projected on eacb side below the corresponding malleoli, also posteriorly above the pro- jecting part of the calcaneum, thrusting out the tendo-achillis. On "grasping the calcaneum and attempting to move it on the astragalus, a grating was felt, as if the bones were rough; there was sufficient motion to give the idea of weakening, if not entire destruction, of the interosseous astragalo-calcaneal ligament. He could move his ankle- joint without pain, but he felt pain when he put his foot to the ground. The pain complained of was exactly in the situation of the astragalo- calcaneal joint. " March 2nd, 1859.—I made an incision, beginning a little below and in front of the external malleolus, carried it under the external malleolus at the distance of an inch, and brought it up to the inside of the tendo Achillis, an inch above the insertion of the latter. A depot of pus, in the neighbourhood of the tendon, was opened ; a probe could be passed deep into the astragalo-calcaneal joint, and rough bone felt. I dissected on, and exposed the joint, and found it clearly diseased, and determined, if possible, to remove the articular surface of the os calcis. I made a second incision, an inch and a half in length, across the dorsum of the foot, which fell on the anterior extremity of the first, so as to enable me to divide any fibres of the interosseous ligament that might be remaining. I dissected up the side flap for a short distance, and opened into the articulation without injuring the peroneal tendons. I found the articular surface, especially of the calcis, roughened, and a number of white, soft granulations between the bones ; these were seen especially in front. I succeeded, partly with Hey's saw, and partly with the chisel and gouge, in removing the articular surface of the calcis, and eventually obtained a moderately smooth surface. The bones were drawn into position by the tendons, the flap was fastened down by sutures, and the limb laid upon its outer side. " Por some time the case promised fairly, indeed, I think, might eveutually have recovered, but the man became impatient, as his wife and child depended solely on himself, and he begged to have his foot removed, to which, much to my annoyance, I was obliged to accede.