6 IlEPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. Pasteuii, Jj.—BcsearcJies on Putrefaction. Coini)tes Eendus, June 29tli, 1863, P- 1189. PorciiET, 1\ A., Jolt, N., and Musset, Q.—Experhnents on Jldcro- genie {Spontaneous Generation), conducted in the Interior of the Glaciers of Maladetta, in the Spanish Fijrenees. Comptes Eendus, Sept. 2ist, 1863. Haulin, M.—Chemical Studies on the Ver/ctaUon of3foulds,pariicnlarli/ ofAscophora nigrans. Comptes Eciidus, July 27tli, 186.3, P- 228. M. Pasteur considers that his previous experiments have entirely dis- proved the hypothesis that fermentation can be effected by the influence of decomposing albuminous substances. The sole agents in the process are animalcules, or their germs, of which fact he now adduces another instance. The tartrate of lime, mixed with a minute quantity of phos- phate of ammonia and of alkaline and earthy phosphates, best derived from the ashes of the animalcules it is desired to reproduce, is placed under water which has been entirely freed from air, and cut off from all access to the atmosphere. Under these circumstances it undergoes no change. If, however, there be added to it the very smallest number of the infusoria produced by the spontaneous fermentation of the tartrate of lime, they gradually multiply, without any access of air, until there remains no more of the salt, ljut only a mass of dead vibrios. Thus, whatever may be the cause of the fermentation of the tartrate of lime, it is determined by the presence of an animalcule capable of living without free oxygen, and apart from the atmos])here. It is true that the liquid is exposed to the air for a brief period during the introduc- tion of the infusoria; but the study of this subject has shown that the precautions previously taken to cut off the supply of air are altogether iinnecessary, and has also led M. Pasteur to new views of the most re- markable kind on infusorial life. The animalcules which produce fer- mentation are not only capable of living without free oxygen, but they are killed by the access of air: how, then, can fermentation arise in sub- stances freely exposed to the atmosphere ? The answer is very simple. There are first developed under these conditions a multitude of monads, bacteria, &c., which live by means of air, and these in the space of a few hours consume all the oxygen contained in the mass, converting it into a little larger quantity of CO2; and then only appear the other in- fusoria, which cause fermentation properly so-called, and which live without free oxygen. These infusoria are nourished by the fermenting body, and the supposed fermentation by contact does not exist. Albuminous bodies are of use in fermentation only by providing the necessary nitrogen, and may be substituted by salts of ammonia. There appear, then, to be two modes of life among infusoria—one carried on by the aid of the oxygen of the air, the other, not heretofore recognised, apart from oxygen, and effected by means of fermentation. Here, M. Pasteur thinks, is certainly the secret of all fermentations properly so-called, and probably of many of the actions, normal or abnormal, of the living organism. Pasteur has made also further experiments, by enclosing a solution of veast mixed with sugar and Avnter, urine, blood, milk, moist snwdu.st,