EEPORT ON SUUGKHY. 282 " Hi/ch'opneumothorax,—Here paracentesis can do no harm, and may- give great relief. I have operated once with much temporary benefit, and should not fail to do so again vrero the dyspnoea urgent. " No fluid.—riually, in seven cases I got no fluid whatever; this occurred most frequently in my earlier operations, uud tlie failure was probably due to the cautious and slow manner in which I plunged the trocar between the ribs, carrying thus the false membrane of the pleura costalis before the instrument instead of piercing it, so that it really never entered the fluid. At other times I have little doubt that an error of diagnosis was made, and that instead of a fluid there was simply an unexpanded lung and thick, false membranes on the pleura, causing as much dulness on percussion and absence of respiration as if a fluid were present. The diagnosis of the two was not as easy to me then as now; inspection is the test between these two conditions; the intercostals are distinct and depressed when a membrane exists, but indistinct and level with the ribs, or possibly prominent, when a fluid occupies the chest. Once an immense tumour filled and uniformly distended one pleural cavity, and in its course presented all the pheno- mena, natural and physical, of simple pleurisy. I tapped it three times, namely, at the back, side, and front, at the same visit. No evil effect ensued. " An inquiry has been made as to which side gives the most success- ful results. I regard an operation performed on the right side as much more favorable than one on the left, for about twice as many of the former have recovered as of the latter. " Inspection of the chest should never be neglected, for when full of fluid there will be found a general roundness and immobility of the whole of the affected side. At times local swelling may develop itself, and this is especially apt to occur with the breast, which becomes unduly prominent. It is not often that bulging of the intercostal spaces takes place, for they are rarely more than on a level -with the ribs, which fre- quently seem closer from contrast with those of the opposite side, that are so constantly on the stretch to fulfil their double duty. Where the eflfusion is great, vocal fremitus is wanting, and there is often exquisite sensitiveness to the touch over the whole of that side of the chest, which disappears after the removal of the fluid. The lung, unless bound by adhesions, is gradually displaced, and floats upon the fluid beneath. Should doubts arise as to the presence of eflrusion, change of position with palpation, as in dropsy, will remove them. As the liquid increases the lung becomes further compressed and forced backwards towards its root, until respiration can no longer be detected but at its apex and close to the spine behind; and other organs become removed from their positions. Mr. M'Donnell states that occasionally the heart, by giving impulse to the fluid through its mediastinal wall, may cause eftusion to be mistaken for aneurism. I liave never noticed any such efftect. " If hen to operate.—Experience has taught me always to operate without delay, when the pleural cavity has become distended with fluid, and the dyspnoea is great; for I have found that, when performed early, it prevents long tedious illness, future contraction of the chest, and the probable development of tubercle, or perhaps a troublesome