SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS OF INTERNAL ORGANS. 195 when two ounces of finely pulverized coloplioniura are gradually added, the whole being constantly stirred, until a drop placed on a cold porce- lain plate sfciftens into a soap-like mass. The soap is then placed on a filtering cloth, and after the lye has dropped otf, thrice washed with a little distilled water. So prepared, it forms a yellowish-brown, smeary mass, which becomes darker and firmer by exposure to the air, but not dry ; it has a slightly alkaline, bitter, aromatic taste, and a smell re- sembling that of turpentine. It is perfectly soluble in alcohol, but with water forms only a frothy substance. Four parts of this soap mixed with three parts of magnesia usta form a mass which may be divided into three-grain pills, and thus each pill contains four sevenths of a grain of the soap. Prof. Zeissl has given eighteen to twenty-four of these pills daily, and has never seen after them such disturbances of the digestive organs as after the use of copaiba or cubebs. The pre- cipitate in the urine previously mentioned may be found after the ingestion of eighty or one hundred pills. M. H. CoUis, on gonorrhoea ('Dub. Quart. Joui'nal,' xxxv, i). O. Max, on the treatment of gonorrhoea ('Schmidt's Jahrb.,' vol. 117, p. 175). Dr. Montgomery, on the treatment of acute gonorrhoea as a pm-ely local affection (' Madras Quart. Jour.,' v, loi). SYPHILIS. H. Lee, 'Lectures,' 2nd ed. (Lond., Churchill). J. Hutchinson, ' Clinical Memoirs on Certain Diseases of the Eye and Ear, consequent on Inherited Syphilis' (Lond. Churchill). P. Diday,' Natural History of Syphilis' (pp. 276, Paris, Asseliu). In this work the author gives a fuller exposition of the views he had previously advanced (' Tear-book' for 1862, p, 227). Dr. S. Willts, on the syphilitic affections of internal organs (' Guy's Hosp. Eeports,' third series, ix. i). It is now,maintained "that the internal organs may be affected equally with the external; that not only the cranium, but the brain within it, or the nerves; not only the muscles of the limbs and tongue, but the heart; not only the pharynx, but the oesophagus; not only the larynx, but the trachea, bronchi, and lungs ; also the liver, spleen, and other viscera." " In syphilis there is a disposition to the effusion of a low form of lymph, or fibro-plastic material, in nearly every tissue of the body, occasionally modified in character to a slight extent by the organ in which it occurs. Consequently, in those who have died suffering from this disease there is scarcely an organ but what may be found affected in this particular way. In solid organs, or in the interior of the tissues, there is found a more or less circumscribed deposition of an albumino- fibrous material, whilst on the surface of the body a similar material may constitute merely the base and border of an ulcer ; for just as cancer and tubercle, in their own peculiar diatheses, show themselves as masses of disease in the solid organs, and as ulcers in the skin or mucous mem- brane, 80 in syphilis the viscera may be found full of the syphilitic material whilst on the pharynx, larynx, &c., an ulceration may also exist." ' Dr. Wilks points out that the distinction between secondary and tertiary symptoms is quite arbitrary, the terms being used by different