270 IIEPOIIT ON SUllGERY. IT. In oue subject obstucles were found to passing the bougie; examination with the otoscope wlien air was blown into the tube showed that there was some impediment to the conduction of sound, The bougie, after it had been introduced for one inch, met with resistance • this was overcome on the right side by repeatedly drawing the bouo-ie backwards and pusliing it forwards, so that it then penetrated an inch and a half. Now the stream of air had also become free. On the left side there was the same resistance at the corresponding spot; it was not forced, but the tube was opened. The point of the bougie was in the tube close to the tympanic cavity; the tube, just before opening into the tympanic cavity, presented a bend, and passed in an oblique direction ; far from being contracted, it was very wide. On the right side the bougie was introduced, and the tube opened; it presented the same bend, and the point of the bougie struck directly on the head of the malleus. III. A dilute solution of iodine was injected through the catheter into the Eustachian tube of a subject on whom the bougie could be easily passed, and where a full sound could be heard by the oto- scope. The tympanic cavity and posterior end of the tube were then opened, and the starch test applied; there was no trace of reaction. The same experiment was repeated on two other tubes; in the one there was a dubious trace of reaction, in the other none at all. Chloride of iron gave no trace of reaction in the tympanic cavity and the posterior end of the tube, after a solution of ferrocyanide of potas- sium had been injected. IV. In a case where the bougie could be readily introduced into the right tube, and a full free sound could be heard by the otoscope, the tympanic cavity was opened from above, a little lock of cotton was introduced, and the aperture was covered with a small watch-glass, which was rendered air-tight by the use of cement. Air was now blown through the catheter into the tube. Although by auscultation the fuU sound could be constantly heard, the cotton in the tympanic cavity did not show the slightest trace of motion. Little drops of water on the floor of the cavity showed a slight change of level when air was forcibly blown, evidently] owing to the increased atmospheric pressure. Since these experiments on blowing had given essentially negative results, Dr. Kramer was induced by the committee to institute some further essays in the following manner : Extremely delicate elastic catheters, through which injections and insuflJations' could be made, were introduced through the silver catheter into the tube, just in the same way as the bougies previously mentioned. It had, indeed, been found, that water could be injected into the spheres of the glass apparatus when a very fine injecting canula was used instead of the nozzle of the India-rubber ball; it was by no means necessary to push the canula far up the glass tube—a positive result was gained when the point of the canula was within the anterior aperture of the glass tube. V. 16th March.—Catheter No. 3 was introduced into both tubes of