DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 176* Demme, II.—On Glossifis, and its treatment. ScUw. Ztschr. f. Ileilk., ii, p. 7.3, 186.3. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 119, p. 29.5. Demnie distinguishes glossitis profunda from glossitis superficialis. The varieties of the latter are gl. catarrhal., gl. exanthem., gl. toxic, gl. croupos., and gl. diphtherica. These he treats but briefly. Gl. profunda has two varieties—gl. phlegmonodes (29 cases), and myo-glossitis (.3 cases). These two may again be arranged, according to different peculiarities, into («) suppurative gl.; (6) tuberculated gl., which is characterised by anae- mic necrosis of cell-growths ; (c) fibrous gl., producing new formation of fibrous tissue, so-called macroglossia; (^) gummatous, or syphilitic gl., which probably commences in the proper muscular substance, and usually appears in the middle of the tongue ; (e) gangrenous gl., ■which only occurs in similar states of angina, or as anthrax iu cases of malignant pustule. After describing the symptoms, which are more or less acute, he states the mortality of his thirty-two cases. Two perished from oedema of the glottis and pyaemia; one from gangrene; twenty-two cases re- covered ; the remsiinder were only improved. In the matter of treatment, Demme lays stress on energetic and early antiphlogistic measures, consist- ing either in the application of ice to the tongue or to the submaxillary region, or in detraction of blood. For the latter purpose leeches may be applied uuder the jaw, or the tongue may be scarified. The incisions sliould be longitudinal, and made pretty deep, and the bleeding from them encouraged. Opening the ranine-veins is not advisable. Brushing the surface of the tongue over with strong tincture of iodine is of great value in all stages of the disease; it produces energetic contraction and indura- tion of the tumour, occasionally with formation of scabs or vesicles. Its action is most evident when fluctuation is already present; it causes reso- lution without any escape of pus. It is generally necessary to repeat the application daily. If there appears danger of oedema of the glottis, in- cisions must not be delayed. Internal treatment must be regulated in accordance with the general state of the system. Similar local treatment is requisite also in the chronic forms. Berger.—On the Treatment of Dysentery. Wien. IMed. Wchnschr., xiii, 22, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 120, p. 48. In all cases which resist simple treatment, or where there are signs of advanced ulceration, Berger recommends the use of injections of nitrate of silver. He gives gr. vj—x, dissolved in 5iij of water, together with a few drops of tincture of opium three or four times in the twentj--four liours. The remedy is of no avail, he believes, if given in pills or solution by the mouth. In adynamic or septic dysentery, Berger thinks the above mode of treatment is still the most efficacious. The diet must be semi-fluid, consisting of barley and rice, jelly and broth, and rest in bed is essential. Nelson, T., M.D.—Medical residts of the recent Chinese Wars. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 186.3. With respect to dysentery, Nelson shows, from the returns, that in the years 1840-41-42, out of 15,470 men employed, there were 2102 cases, of which 188 died and 60 were invalided. In i8';7.58-59, out of 24,980 men employed, there occurred 2006 cases of dysentery, of whom 11*