Syi'llILlTIC AFFECTIONS OF INTEllNAl, OllC.'ANS. 197 cauuot by any means be regarded as connected essentially with syphilis. The latter term should therefore be altogether removed from that form of affection iu which they arc found to exist. If the cachexia under which they occur be induced by syphilis, then let the cachexia be regarded as the sequela, and not styled the tertiary stage. _ Should, however, writers wish to retain the latter term, let it be strictly con- fined to this condition, and not made to include that in which the results of true syphilis are also found. " The subject, therefore, frames itself to my mind in this way : that the so-called secondary syphilis should be simply styled syphilis, and that the disease is known to exist so long as certain phenomena occur, these being exemplified more especially by the exudation of lymph in the various tissues of the body, thus showing that a morbid action is still in existence, and, according to some authors, a virus capable of being propagated iu various direct and indirect manners. This virus may be exterminated by remedies or may wear itself out, and the patient recover his health; but not infrequently, as a consequence of the vitiation which the constitution has undergone (although the syphilitic poison may itself have disappeared), a morbid state of system may have been produced, tending sometimes to a fatty degeneration of the various structui-es of the body, but more especially to that change Ivuown as the lardaceous or waxy. This might, with more propriety, be called the second stage, or, if preferred, the tertiary stage, but one to be distinguished from the preceding, inasmuch as the virus was then still present, whilst in the latter it has departed, the changes in the tissues being attributable to the cachectic condition, and therefore not unlike what may arise under other circumstances. Such a division of the disease into syphilis and its sequelae is one w^hich I have long proposed to^myself, finding it a simple one, and warranted by clinical experience as'well as by pathological research. " The post-mortem discoveries of the combination of the results of the secondary and tertiary stages should present no difiiculty, since much of the albumino-fibroid material formed in the true syphilitic stage is incapable of absorption, and remains during the life of the patient. Deposits of this kind may, therefore, be found in the livers of those who have quite recovered froui the disease, and may have died many years afterwards of an independent malady, or may be found iu those who Imve succumbed to the ultimate eft'ects of syphilis in the so-called tertiary stage. Because they are discovered in coexistence with ulterior changes, they are not therefore to be regarded as necessarily of the same age with them; for example, a lardaceous liver, with fibroid de- posits in it, is rather to be looked upon as an exemplification of two distinct morbid phases than showing occurrences of the same period. This explanation will remove many of the difficulties in the way of separating the stages of the disease, but not hitherto made quite clear, because amongst syphilitic subjects the greater number would be found dying at the later periods than at the earlier ones, and therefore all in- ternal affections would be placed in connection with that stage in which death took place. All experience and analogy, however, would show that these affections arose at an earlier time, and been merely carried on to a later period when they were made manifest to the eye.