REPOET ON FORENSIC MEDICINE. 446 first to show that the solar spectrum, when transmitted through a layer of blood, or of a liquid containing blood, presents two defined dark Hnes. Tiicse bands are situated in the yellow and the green, between Frauenhofer's D and E. One of them is pretty near to the double line D J the other is not quite so close to E. Tbeir breadth is rather less than that of the part of the spectrum between E and b. In order that they may be well defined, dilute solutions of blood must be employed. If the fluid be stronger, the bands increase in size, at the expense of the intervening space, and ultimately they coalesce. When the concentra- tion of the fluid is still greater, the violet and blue parts of the spectrum disappear, and afterwards the green : so that at last only the red and the orange, and the space between E and b, remain visible. Valentin, in his book on the spectroscope (Leipzig, 1863;'v. ' Prag. Vjschrft.,' 1863, vol. ii, p. iii) gives the results of his investigations on the application of this instrument to the detection of blood-stains. Some further observations on the same subject are also contained in ' Virchow's Archiv ' (xxvi, 1863, p.580). Valentin states that one part of blood in 2000 —3000 of water is easily discovered by this means, and that under favor- able circumstances the test is successful with solutions containing only i"5"2?55TT of blood. The suspected stains should first be scraped, and treated with water at a temperature not higher than 40° C. If they are very old, three or four days are often required for water to extract from them all that it is capable of dissolving. A thick layer of the fluid should be subjected to this test, as the lines are darker in proportion to the length of the path of the ray through it. Some kinds of bile also give lines in the green part of the spectrum; however, on dilution of the fluid with water, they disappear far more quickly than those which arise from the presence of blood. If the dark lines are not seen when a suspected fluid is examined, it must not be concluded that blood is not present, for old stains may be so altered by decomposition, by the action of heat, or by acids or caustic alkalies, that the lines do not show themselves. Stains of blood exposed to the action of sulphuretted hydrogen in a water-closet or elsewhere, would not be detected by the spectroscope in so dilute solutions as fresh spots. The frequency with which the aniline colours are now used as dies for clothing renders the comparison of their spectrum with that of blood of some interest, since they also give two dark lines when examined by the spectroscope. The position of the lines produced by blood and those due to the presence of fuchsin is, however, diSierent. One of them does indeed occupy nearly the same part of the spectrum in the case of each fluid ; but the fuchsin band begins slightly nearer to the red end of the spectrum, while the line produced by blood extends rather further towards the violet extremity. The positions of the other lines are quite diflferent. That of fuchsin (the one of the fuchsin bands which is not constant) lies between b and F, while that of blood is situated near D. Erdmann ('Ztschrft. f. anal, claim.,' 1862; ' Priig. Yjschrft.,' vol. ii, 1863, p. no) relates a case in which the discovery of a spot on the ground, which after rain presented all the appearance of coagulated blood, gave rise to suspicions of violence; a human body being also found, and the cause of death being unknown. When part of this spot was treated