4.6 uepout on phactical medicine. in various organs, was observed after death. In one instance the liver M'lis quite spong)', and numerous air-bubbles were seen under its serous covering. The spleen, the kidneys, intestine, mesentery, sul)cutaneous tissue, and cervical arteries, were simiiurly affected. Tlie gas was sup- posed to be CO2, from its acid smell and from the acid reaction of the blood. In all the cases intestinal haemorrhage had occurred before death. Ebers found in three instances extravasation of blood in the recti-abdoniinal muscles.—Treatment. Monneret, Herard, Brand, Almes, all agree in tlie importance of giving a very nourishing and supporting diet in typhus. Bad symptoms are less likely to occur, convalescence commences sooner, and complications are more rare. Gigon lays stress on due ventilation of the sick-room, and mentions that almost all the patients died who were placed in a certain corner, where there was always a foul smell because it was diQicult to renew the air. Lebert finds advantage from the appli- cation of leeches to the head in cases of severe head affection, apparently meningitic. Lauer ('Ungar. Ztschr.,' xi, 6, i86o,) recommends Pot. lod. as a specific in abdominal typhus, from eighteen years' experience. He affirms that, given before the tenth day, it will save 97 per cent, of all cases. The dose is about gr. i. 0. h. Several observers maintain the advantage of giving emetics at the commencement, either for the purpose of merely clearing out the priraEE vise, or of producing an abortive effect on the disease. Others regard them as absolutely injurious. Calomel is thought by Brand and Kerschensteiner to render the course of the disease milder when given in full doses at the outset. Billard, E. ('Gaz. des Hopit.,' 4, 6, 7, i860) advises the administration of saHne purgatives as long as the stools are offensive, believing that the presence of fetid gas in the intestine gives rise to bad symptoms. Digitalis is of use in severe cases when the violence of the fever threatens danger; it lowers the tem- perature and the pulse. Veratria was found by Vogt to have the effect of rapidly relieving the head and suppressing the fever. It is not to be given if the circulation is very much depressed. Quinine has been tried by several, but the general result is by no means favorable to the view that it has any power of arresting the fever. Almes gave a chalybeate water for habitual drink to his patients, with advantage. Brand found chlorine water and pyroligneous acid of no use. Van der Decken and Brand give detailed accounts of the treatment of typhus by hydro-therapy. Furuncles or small abscesses are described as occurring commonly, and as having a critical significance. A full eruption of this kind is always fol- lowed by a rapid and complete recovery. The cerebral functions remain nearly intact; delirium is exceedingly rare. After every bath the patient falls into a deep, tranquil sleep, and remains thus during three fourths of the whole period of the disease. The tongue never gets dry and crusted, desire for food continues, and diarrhoea is slight, or ceases at a time when usually it is severe. Ileo-ccecal pain and meteorism soon disappear ; ulcerations probably do not form. One general rule of the treatment is to carry the cooling process by means of affusions, baths, and .airing, to such a degree as to reduce the febrile phenomena to a minimum. As soon as the diagnosis is clear, cold afl'usions with water at 59°-5^° Fahr. are to be commenced, the patient being placed in a half-bath at 84° Fahr., and to be repeated every three or four hours. During exacerbations of