NEllVOUS SYSTEM. 81 division of the sympathetic, and that galvanizing the cut ends produces upon that organ the same eflects as galvanism of the divided sympa- thetic ; but that in both cases none of the vascular and calorific phe- nomena are exhibited. On the other hand, by dividing subcutaneously the ascending filament of the sympathetic between the second and third dorsal vertebrae, there ■\ras produced, after a few seconds, a considerable increase of temperature, but without any of the ocular phenomena. After two days the difierence of temperature on the two sides amounted to 5-8° C, (10-4 Fahr.) the eyes having precisely the same appearance. Besides this anatomical distinctness, the two sets of nerves have dift'erent physiological properties, especially in respect to their reflex action. The reflex actions which are exhibited by the movements of the eye or pupil may have their source in any part of the sensitive nervous system. "When a sensitive nerve is pinched, in any region of the body, there arises a reflex movement in both eyes at the same time, exhibited by a sudden enlargement of the eyelids and a dilatation of the pupil. ■ This is efi'ected through the spinal cord and the above- mentioned spinal nerves. If the roots of the first and second and sometimes the third dorsal nerves are divided on both sides, the action is wholly prevented ; if on one side, it takes place onlj on that on which the nerves are left intact, on whichever side the irritation ia applied. Thus the reflex action of the oculo-pupillary nerves is general and crossed. On the other hand, the reflex operation of the vaso-motor nerves ia not crossed, and is limited, as regards their excitation, to the particular region supplied by the nerve. An irritation of the auricjalar nerve produces vascularity only on the corresponding side, although this same irritation induces reflex movements in both eyes at once. I'rom these difl'erences between the oculo-pupillary and the vascular reflex actions, may we not infer that the former—those which are general—have their centre of reflection in the spinal cord, while the others, which are local and more cii'cumscribed, have their centre in the sympathetic ganglia ? Bernard is of opinion that the greater part of the errors which are introduced into the history of the vascular and calorific nerves of the great sympathetic are due to a confounding of direct and reflex vascular phenomena. Vigouroux has found that every well-pronounced movement of inspi- ration or of expiration coincides with a dilatation of the pupil. Besides these, however, every energetic muscular contraction, aa of the arm or leg, seems to have the same effect, although it may be due, he thinks, in the latter case, to the influence of those movements upon the respiration. The dilatation of the pupil amounts to about one third or one fifth of its diameter. This movement would appear to indicate that every time a centrifugal nervous current passes along the spinal cord, a portion of it is diverted into the first and second dorsal nerves. Among the muscles of the orbit, and those supplied by the fifth and seveutii nerve, the con- traction of the internal rectus alone ia accompanied by a dilatation of the pupil. This difl'erence, without doubt, depends on the third nerve