417 ORGANIC SUBSTANCES. Melaiithacea. Dr. Edwards ('IMed. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1863, p. s) records a case of poisoning by the veratrum viride, in the person of a scientific chemist, who took, experimentally, a drachm of the tincture, a dose equivalent to twelve grains of the powder. A sense of uneasiness was soon expe- rienced; and a little later, pain in the lower part of the abdomen, nausea, and alarioiing vomiting. After the contents of the stomach had been ejected, glairy mucus and blood were thrown up. Cold sweats also came'on; the features became sunken, the skin cold, and the pulse could not be felt. An ounce and a half of pure brandy was given hiui, which checked the vomiting, and he rallied a little ; the pulse was then feeble and irregular, forty-four in the minute. After an hour he fell asleep, and on waking, at the end of a quarter of a hour, appeared comparatively well. There was no diarrhea at any time. All tliat the patient remembered afterwards of the most severe period of his symp- toms was hearing and recognising the voice of one of bis medical friends. Immense circles of a green colour appeared round the candle, which, as vertigo came on and he closed his eyes, turned to red. He had two or three times a slight return of the symptoms, and did not sleep during the night which followed. M. Trapp, of St. Petersburg (' Bull, de Ther.,' vol. Ixiv, p. 545) has noticed that on boiling for some time the colourless solution of verati'ia in concentrated hydrochloric acici, it gi'adually acquires an intense red colour, resembling that of the permanganate of potass. Warncke ('Hosp. Tidende,' No. 6, 186,3 ; 'Schmidt,' No. 10, p. 39) relates a case of poisoning by a wine-glass and a half of viu. sem. colch. occurring in a boy fourteen years of age, who swallowed it by mistake for Madeira, though it tasted disagreeably. During the whole day after taking the poison he remained well, but late in the afternoon he was found to have no appetite for dinner. Vomiting and purging (jf rice-water stools then set in, and pains in the limbs and thirst were also complained of. During the night he could not sleep, and suffered from headache and from vomiting of the water which was given to relieve his thirst. The medical man was not called in till the next morning. The child was then in a state of collapse, with clammy sweat on the surface of the body. The extremities cold, the lips and tongue bluish, the face pale and blue. The fingers spasmodically flexed, but in a state of constant movement. There was no tenderness of the abdo- men ; but a sense of uneasiness at the epigasti'ium was complained of. In the afternoon of the same day the vomiting ceased, but the cramps continued; and according to those who saw the child before death occuiTcd, they assumed a tetanic form. Warncke gives an analysis of nine other fatal cases of the same kind, recorded by lloux and Casper; he also relates some which terminated favorably. He thinks that the effects of colchicum are divisible into two classes—the gastro-enteric and tlie spinal. The gastro-enteric symptoms include pain andburnino- in the throat and a-sophagus, pain and tenderness of the abdomen, and rapid collapse. The spinal symptoms resemble those of cholera; they 27