98 lUSPOET ON PJtACTICAL ilKDiClNK. Fraseu.—Med. Tim. and Gnz., February 7tli. Records a case of trismus algidus resulting from exposure to wet aud cold, nud becoming so severe that the jaws could only be separated by considerable force. He was treated with Ext. Cannab. Ind., com- mencing with gr. J 0. h., and increasing the dose to gr. iij o. h. This caused intoxication in about twelve hours, which soon disappeared on leaving oil the drug. Altogether, 115 grains were taken during seven days of treatment. He improved gradually, and made a good recovery. He had had a similar attack, but less severe, a year before, from exposure to cold and wet, which ceased in three weeks spontaneously. SpiTZER, C.—Oesterrh. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., viii, 50, 1862. Records a case of traumatic tetanus in M'hich curare was used unsuc- cessfully. It was injected into the subcutaneous tissue, dissolved in alco- hol. After three grains had been used the symptoms remitted, but returned severely, and the patient died on the tenth day from the injury. FiiONMuLLEB.—On the Soporific Power of Lactuca. Deutsche Khnik, 41—^44, i86a. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 25. From 149 observations made with various preparations, Fronmuller concludes—(i) that English or German lactucarium is the most effica- cious; (2) that the dose must be from 10 to 30 grains, if it is to act eflectually; (3) that it is the mildest of all the narcotics, but still may give rise to giddiness, headache, and stupor. Sellee, W.—On Delirium Tremens, as distinguished from other Effects on the Mind, real or apparent, of Excess in Drinking. Edin. Med. Journ., November, 1863. Seller would refuse the name of delirium tremens—(i) to abortive cases, or threatenings of this disorder; (2) to cases of insanity, either temporary or more permanent, the immediate precursor of which is excessive drinking ; (3) to mere fits of drunkenness, with much violence or extravagance, but without distinct delusion. He illustrates these states by narrating various instances of each. Delirium tremens presents, he says, so great a simi- larity in its course, under the most opposite circumstances, as to approach to the character of a specific disease, like smallpox or measles, in the train of symptoms exhibited. Ogle, J. W., M.D.—Med. Times aud Gnz., December 19th. Records three cases of delirium tremens in which opium appears (0 have been of essential service. In the last case the attack (the first one) had commenced fourteen days before his admission ; he had opium in divided doses for five days, Mith Ant. Pot. Tart, gr. \, every four hour.s for the last day and a half. Morphia, gr. iss, was now given, and repeated in six hours, and sulphuric ether and carbonate of ammonia given every three hours. He improved steadily from this time, the morphia being given for four successive nights. One night subsequently, when it was omitted, he was more restless. ^ FioiiRY.—Jour, de Med. et de Chir. pratiq., July, 1863. Recommends ammonia administered internally as a touchstone in all