DROPSY OP THE OVUM. 367 pushed up above the brim. Of the 4 children, 2 were born alive and 2 dead. The mothers did well in all 7 cases. (' Med. Times,' ii, 1863, p. 642.) DISEASES^ ETC., OF THE CHILD IMPEDING DELIVERY. DROPSY OP THE OVUM. Dr. McClintock, on "Dropsy of the Ovum," 'Dub. Quart. Jour.,' Feb., 1863, p. 188. AYe know little of the pathology of this condition, or of tlie special conditions which give rise to it. No disease of the amniotic membrane has been found, although many cases have been carefully examined. In a few exceptional cases the amnion was only partially opaque and thickened. That the disease does not depend upon a dropsical diathesis of the woman, is shown by the fact that these patients are often free from general dropsy, and that in many patients affected with general dropsy at the time of delivery there is yet no abnormal increase of the amniotic fluid. In the case of a woman preg- nant with twins, the amnion of one child only is generally affected, and this ia generally that of the second-born twin. Of 11 twin cases in which the disease was present, in all it was confined to a single amnion, and in 9 cases it was the amnion of the second twin. The dropsy being confined to one ovum points to the cause as local. That the foetus of the dropsical bag of membranes should be the last expelled is probably due to its gi'eater mobility. The disease is more common in multi- parae than in primiparae. Of 33 cases noted by the author, only 5 were primiparae. The rapid development of the disease, which is very marked in many cases, affords some clue to the diagnosis. It is con- stantly associated -with abortive ova, and the author believes, with the late Dr. Eetzius, that it is a very frequent cause of the early death and expulsion of the embryo. Of the 33 cases 1 ended in abortion at the fifth month and i at the sixth mouth, 12 resulted in premature expul- sion of the foetus, and in the remainder the child seemed to have reached the ninth month. Of the 33 cases, 4 resulted in the death of the mother—I from rupture of the uterus, the child being hydroce- phalic ; another from puerperal fever, at tliat time epidemic; and 2 from " debility and prostration ;" each of tlie latter had been con- fined of twins, and was in a broken-down state of health at the time of delivery. Of the 29 women who recovered, 3 had smart attacks of metritis after delivery. Of the children, 9 were born dead, and 5 of these were iu a putrid condition; and of those born alive, 10 died within a few hours after birtli. It occurred more frequently with female than with male children, in the proportion of 25 of the former to 8 of the latter. The presentation was noted in 31 cases. Of these, the head presented in 20, the pelvis in 9, and the upper extremity in I. With regard to the diagnosis, the expanded state of the cervix the extreme tension of the lower segment of the uterus, or of the mem^ branes, if the os be open, and the ease with which tlie child can be dis- placed, are all corroborative symptoms of the ovum being dropsical." The author knows of no treatment capable of arresting the secretion of the liquor amuii, or of causing its absorption when secreted to an