131 CIRCUIATOllY SYSTEM. as well as the quantity. The urea became gradually less, and latterly the uric acid. In all the cases the urine was albuminous, in two it con- tained glucose. The duration of the disease varied from forty-three to about five days. In two cases it appeared that over-exertion in lifting weights was the cause. KiiiKEs, W. S,, M.D.—On Ulcerative Inflammation of the Valves of the Heart as a cause of Pycemia. Brit. Med. J., Nov. 7th. Kirkes relates a case whicli was very obscure during life, but of which he sums up the pathology as follows, after a careful post-mortem examination. In the first instance there was ordinary rheumatism ; then acute ulcerative inflammation of the mitral valve; then contaminatioir of the arterial blood by lymph, pus, and other inflammatory products from the valve; then the signs of general blood-poisoning, namely, febrile disturbance of a low typhoid form, nausea, vomiting, profuse diarrhoea, and erythematous eruption ; then local suppuration in the parotids; lastly, obstruction of the cerebral vessels, with consequent softening of the brain substance and hemiplegia, all terminating in death, and revealing proofs of blood poisoning in various parts of the body. Skoda.—On Cardiac Murmurs not easily explicable. Allg. Wien. Med. Ztg., viii, 34, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb,, vol. 120, p. 303. As aids in the diagnosis, Skoda lays down, that in any part where it seems possible that disordered innervation is the cause, it should be so regarded. If a systolic murmur is heard in the corresponding situation, and the systolic cardiac murmur is retarded, is more perisystolic, the murmur probably arises in the arteries of the thoracic wall, especially if a similar one can be found in other arteries. That the murmur is pro- duced in the conus arteriosus may be concluded when the systolic murmur is most marked at the base of the heart. Such murmurs are very diflScult to distinguish from those produced at the orifices of the large arteries, but they certainly occur. ScHEiBER.—Case of Complete Obliteration of the Aorta. Wien, Wchnbl., xviii, 26, 1862. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 117, p. 39. The aorta and its large branches were dilated as far as just beyond the origin of the left subclavian, beyond which it was entirely obhterated. The point of insertion of the duct. Botal. was marked by a funnel-shaped depression. The patient from whom the preparation was taken died of pneumonia, and had not suffered during life with symptoms referable to disorder of the circulation. Skoda considers the obliteration to depend on a continuation of the substance closing the duct. Botal. beyond its normal limits, and says that the condition can always be diagnosed by the whirring murmurs in the dorsal intercostal arteries, and the absence of pulse in the lower half of the body. Stofella alludes to a case where, owing to a very free communication between the arteries given off above and below the obliteration, there was a sufficient collateral circulation established to give a pulse in the crural artery synchronous with the radial.