201 lllil'OItT OM SUUGKHY. lione.—" It haa been liitherto generally assumed that the caries and necrosis of bono occurring in sypiiiliH arc of the ordinary kind, sut-Ii as arise from the inflammation set up by injury ; but recent investiga- tions would tend to show tliat tliesc processes in syjjhilis are peculiar. If tliis be true, it would explain much of the contradictory opinionK which are held respecting tlic proportionate eil'ects of syphilis and mercury on the osseous system. If, as was said at the commencement of this paper, it be considered by some that caries of the bone in syphi- litic patients is always the result of an undue administration of mer- cury, it would be important to show that this is not so, but that the caries is of a peculiar kind, and one of the results of syphilis, occurring without the interposition of remedies. Of this I have no doubt, although, if the destruction of bone extend to a great degree, this may be due to an excess or abuse of mercuiy. It is to Virchow especially that we are indebted for investigations in this subject, and the resuft he arrives at so accords witli the well-known appearance, that thei'C is little doubt that his observations are correct. He maintains that in the cranium, for example, a similar process takes place as in other parts—a deposition of albuminous material occurring in connection with the periosteum without, or the dura mater within; and that the medullary or vascular canals are iilled with the same kind of gummy substance as in other parts, when a node is produced; also that this may ossify, producing new bone, or that a caries may result. On the cranium the latter is seen forming a depressed centre, with a deposition of new bone around in a dentated form, giving it a cicatriform appearance, just as is witnessed in the pharynx or other parts. " An examination of tbe skulls in our museum, will aflord suffi- cient illustration of this fact; several will be seen showing the cicatri- form or puckered appearance on their surface, tbe peculiarity being the destruction of the bone at the centre and the increase at the cir- cumference, the caries having also a peculiar worm-eaten character. In ordinary caries froni inju.ry a destruction may be seen going on, and a development of new bone around, with smooth edges, and having the other ordinary features, without possessing the above-named peculia- rities ; also in skulls which exhibit a destruction of tissue by cancer or lupus the bone is simply eaten away, without any disposition to the formation of new osseous material. It will be observed that the depo- sition of the yellow albuminous material between the skull and dura mater in many of our specimens is peculiar, whereas in ordinary cases of disease from injury a suppuration is more likely to occur. " In simple syphilitic caries there is no suppuration, and in this lies its peculiarity and au evidence of its origin. If, after a bloyr on the head, even if "the scalp be not cut, the bone becomes carious in conse- quence, some purulent matter is generally found on the surface or in the diploe; but in syphilis, the scalp may be quite sound, and yet, when removed and the periosteum torn off, a caries may be discovered winch was quite unanticipated, and presenting the peculiarities above spoken of. It is for this reason that Virchow has styled it dri/ caries. The same peculiarity occurs with regard to a node on the tibia, which only