185 PLASTIC STJUCEliy. that iu uo case is it proved to bave lived. He discusses the variou3 criteria which have been given of the vitality of transplanted bones, the formation of adhereuces, the normal appearance, the growth, the occur- rence of absorption, softening, fatty infiltration, or incrustation, the appearance of diflerent changes in different parts, and the artificial injection of the vessels. Cf these, only the last and the growth of the portion of bone can have any weight in the decision. The author followed the mucli more satisfactory plan of feeding the animals for a lengthened period after the operation with madder ; according to him, this is a simple, easily employed, indisputable, and only decisive means for the solution of this difficult question. The presence of colouring matter could only be explained by its transmission through the capillaries, and by the existence of a normal irritability and active nutrition. "VVe are un- doubtedly right in admitting that the transplanted bone has continued to live when it becomes of a red colour; that the nutrition has been excessive or defective when the colour appears more or less intense than that of the other bones; and, finally, that the inserted portions present the same appearances as if dead when they have not become in the least coloured red. Among the experiments, we may notice one in which it is shown that a dead bone underwent fatty degene- ration, and another (p. 240) in which a portion of the skull of a dove was entirely removed, and then replaced; it healed in, and the use of madder proved not only that it had lived, but also that there had been a more active change of tissue in it than in the other cranial bones. Such a result is, however, rare; it seems probable that it will occur especially where the wound has healed by the first intention, where the bone has been replaced in its original position, so that the edges exactly fit one another, and Avhere the piece has been removed from one of the flat bones. Among the uses, or possible uses, of osteoplasty in surgery, we may notice that the replacement of the disc of bone sawn out by the trepan was loug since advocated by Ph. v. "Walther, Merrem, and Klencke ; it appears, however, that such a proceeding is little likely to succeed, partly because of the entire separation of the piece of bone from all its connexions, and partly because the piece replaced is somewhat too small, owing to the rim being worn down by the saw. The autlior has experimented with another method, wliich appears to offer greater probability of success; the bone is divided with the chisel so as to cause no loss of substance, and on one side the piece is left connected with the surrounding pericranium, which is drawn aside with a hook during division of the subjacent bone. Other osteoplastic resections, in which the bone is separated so as to leave a connecting bridge, and again replaced in its original position, are tiiose of the nasal process of the upper jaw, with os nasi of the same side, performed by Langenbeck for a large naso-pharyngeal polypus; the operation performed by M. Huguier for the same purpose (' Tear-book,' 1862, p. 295) ; that by Langenbeck for a tumour of the spheno-maxillary fossa (ib., p. 272); those on the lower jaw by Billroth (ib., p. 289). The author enumerates among the possible applications of this process— (i) The operation already mentioned instead of trepanning. (2) Its use in some cases of very extensive necrosis. (3) Osteoplastic resection of