REPORT ON niACTICAL MEDICINE. 158 Griepenkerl boils gr. xx—xxx of coarsely powdered ergot for half an hour with of isinglass, and adds ^iss of white sugar. Of this mixture he gives 5j adis horis to a child aged five to seven years. For younger children the quantity of ergot is to be gr. x—xv. During the treatment no articles of food containing tannin are to be taken. Tiie remedy is not to be given until the beginning of the third week of the disease, and after all complications have been got rid of. The paroxysms are often aggra- vated at first, but diminish in five or ten days. RoGEE.—Practical Remarks on Pertussis. Journ. Med. et de Chir. pratiq., vol. xxxiv., p. 24. Roger advises that infants should be kept, if possible, from being ex- posed to the infection. Occasional ipecacuan emetics, belladonna, and cofi"ee, are the remedies he finds valuable. Coffee does not diminish the attacks, but only the vomitings which succeed them. Inunction with belladonna ointment in the axilise, and inhalation of ether are also ser- viceable. Change of air is not advisable except in the decline of the disease. GiBB ; Hakley.—Lancet, Sept. 26th. Relate several cases of pertussis treated very advantageously by bromide of ammonium. The dose is gr. ij—iij ter die for infants ; for older chil- dren, from gr. iv to gr. viij or x. It seems to influence the special nervous symptoms more than the catarrhal. If there be a tendency to bronchitis or pneumonia, it should be combined with Vin. Ipecac. Leaked, A.—The Use of Arsenic i7i Phthisis. Med. T. and Gaz., Jan. 17th. From its singular power under certain circumstances of restoring health, Leared was induced to try the remedy in phthisis. He gives a brief report of 9 cases, in 4 of which cough and expectoration were improved in 3, pains of chest removed in i, night sweats were arrested in 2, flushing of the face much relieved in i, and appetite greatly increased in i. Cotton, R. P.—Med. T. and Gaz., Jan. 24th. States that he gave to 25 patients in the Brompton Hospital (8 males and 17 females) Tine. Ferri Muriatis m^x—xv ter die for periods varying from three weeks to four months. 01. Morrh. was only given occasionally. The results were that 12 patients improved greatly, ^ slightly, and 8 not at all. Ten of the 17 more or less improved cases did not take any cod- liver oil; but by subsequent observations it was suflSciently evident that the greatest good was brought about by the combined influence of these two substances. Smith, Edwaud, M.D., F.R.S.—A Statistical Inquiry into the prevalence of numerous conditions affecting the Constitution in 1000 Phthisical Persons when in Health. Dublin Q. J., Feb., 1863. The ages of the patients at the period of inquiry gave an average of 29-66 years for the males and 27-5 years for the females. It was found tiiat 44 per cent, of tiie whole were between 20 and 30, about one eiglith were under 20 years, and 3 per cent, were above 50 years. As to tlie place of birth 30 per cent, were born in London or its denser suburbs, and 65 per cent.