IIEI'OIIT ON I'JtACTICAL MEDICINIi. perieace is nearly the same. Michel ('L'Union,' 10.3, 1.33, 1.37, 139, 1859) finds Hint, generally, the relapse is of much shorter duration than the original disease, the average diU'erence beinp; about eleven day*. Occa- sionally, however, the reverse is the case. Human traces the occurrence of relapses to the continued action of the original causes rather than (0 a fresh infection, because in the very year when typhus was most prevalent the number of relapses was smallest, and because fifteen out of thirty-six relapses had occurred before the fever had quite ceased. The degree of severity of the original disorder does not seem to influence materially the occurrence of relapses. From July to September they were less frequent than at other times. Females were afleeted twice as often as males. No age was exempt, but the twentieth year seemed most liable. Michel states the greatest number to occur between fifteen and twenty-five years of age. A roseolous ernplion, mingled with petechioe, usually appears at tlie com- mencement of relapse; sometimes later. It is sometimes more copious than in the primary fever. Sudden death, with cerebral symptoms, occa- sionally occurs in relapses. Abortive typhus, according to Lebert, closely resembles abdominal typhus at the outset, but its symptoms are less severe; the termination is always favorable, and the duration of the disease shorter. In more than half the cases convalescence commenced in the course of the second week. Of 161 cases, only four passed into abdominal typhus. The disease is not infrequent in children, and in them generally runs a more favorable course than in adults. Increase of the bronchial catarrh to dangerous bronchitis sometimes occurs, and during convalescence croupous exudation in the mouth and throat, and follicular enteritis. Langenbeck ('J. f. Kinderkrankh,,' xxxvi, 1861) notices especially the liability of the mesenteric glands to become con- siderably swollen and infiltrated, even when there is not much morbid change in the intesthie; and he believes that they do not always return to their normal size, but, especially in scrofulous children, become tuber- culous or atrophied, and give rise to long-enduring disorder of nutrition, and to chronic marasmus. The period of approaching puberty in the female sex, especially when there is a tendency to chlorosis, presents exceptions to the usually favorable course of typhus in children. The disease often sets in with violent symptoms, is very irregular in its course, presents manifold nervous phenomena, and may terminate either in a sudden collapse or in a long-protracted convalescence. In children between one and two years old typhus often begins with convulsions or other cerebral symptoms. With regard to exanthematic typhus, Lan- genbeck remarks that in some epidemics children escape almost entirely, while in others the reverse is the case. The symptoms seem to be much the same as in adults, but milder, and convalescence ensues earlier.— Pathological Anatomy.—Buhl (' H. u. Pf. Ztschr.,' ,3 R. iv), distinguishes, on pathological grounds, two periods of typhus, as well as the disease itself and its secondary processes. The first period comprises the en- largement of the mesenteric glands and those of the ileum, and extends always over just three weeks. The length of the second is indeterminate ; in the most favorable cases it corresponds to convalescence. In it occur various secondary phenomena, such as inflammation, embolism, softening, gangrene, and wasting. When relapses take place, a fresh crop of erup-