KESPIRATORY SYSTEM. 161 cent, in women, and in 33 per cent, in men. As to previous diseases, 16 per cent, of the cases bad not bad measles, 65-4 per cent, had not had scarlet fever, 60 per cent. Lad not had smallpox, and 41 per cent, had not had hooping-cough. In each of the four diseases the greatest num- ber of cases occurred between 2 and 5 years of age, and the proportion was, hooping-cough 38-8, measles 31 "a, smallpox 24'7, and scarlet fever 32'3 per cent. No recognised ill effect ensued from these diseases that is worth much notice ; in particular, they do not seem to have produced general debility. As to presumed scrofulous and allied diseases, some member of tills class had been present in 21 per cent., and of that i2'8 per cent, alone were enlargement of the glands, and 4-per cent, long-continued disease of the eyes ; and hence the affections of the ears, bones, and joints, marasmus, and peaked chest, were too infrequent to assume any import- ance. No case of rickets was found in the 600 males. Of other diseases it was found that no instance of insanity or diabetes occurred among the 1000 patients ; that the most prevalent diseases were inflammation of the lungs and rheumatism or rheumatic fever, the former of which had occurred at some period of life in 16-7, and the latter in i4'8 per cent. After these came fever, chiefly typhus, and frequent diarrhoea, each of which occurred in about 8 per cent. Ague had occurred in 5*6, and liver affections in 4*3 per cent., fits in 2'8 per cent. Dysentery, kidney affec- tions, brain disease, gout, and cancer, were none of them above i per cent. The general result of Dr. Smith's investigation leads him to support Prof. Walshe's statement, that " phthisis in the adult hospital popula- tion of this country is, to a slight amount only, a disease demonstrably derived from the parents." He affirms that phthisis is not necessarily nor Tisually a disease directly transmitted from the parent to the offspring, but that in a large proportion of phthisical patients the parents, brothers, and sisters, had experienced feeble health and a somewhat lessened dura- tion of life. There was not, however, a majority of the cases so con- nected. His investigations indicate clearly a considerable preponderance of unfavorable circumstances on the side of the females, and show how great is the mother's influence upon the health of the children. He con- cludes that, while there is much evidence to show that the disease is frequently allied with a state of system defective in vital power and resist- ance, both of the patient and his parents and his children, yet that the large proportion in which none of those states of health could be disco- vered is sound proof that phthisical patients are a mixed class, and that the disease arises under very diverse conditions. GiNTRAc, H.—On the Dimensions of the Chest in Pulmonary Phthisis. Arch. d. Med., Nov., 1862. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., Jan., 1863. The author bases his observations upon the ascertained dimensions of the chest in 140 healthy people and 80 consumptive ones, whom he [I arranges in three classes, according to age. Each of tliese classes he again subdivides into two groups, according to the periods of "crudity" or softening of the tubercle. The following are his conclusions :—(i) The chests of phthisical patients are less in circumference than those of the j healthy. (2) This diminution in the size of the chest, appreciable from