REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 84 roots were very atrophied, tlie anterior normal ; the former were of a reddish-gray colour, ribbon-like, most of their fibres empty. The patient was fifty-five years old. Marotte's ])atient was forty-seven years old, and had siiflered from the disease fifteen years. lie died in an extreme state of marasmus. To the end of his life he had electric darting pains and frequent shocks or starts in the limbs, but no loss of sensation in any part. At the autopsy the dura mater of the cord was found much injected posteriorly, and the posterior surface of the arachnoid showed much plastic exudation, with dilated vessels. The cord itself was atro- phied, decreasing in size from above downwards; the posterior surface of u translucent yellow, especially at the lower parts. The posterior roots, especially the lower, were markedly gray, thin, soft, and very hypcraimic, the corresponding anterior ones similarly but much less altered. The individual nerve-fibres of the posterior roots of the lumbar region were almost all degenerated, and those of the upper parts much less so ; the anterior upper ones not at all, the anterior lower ones but little. The posterior columns, as far as the posterior horns, M'ere yellow and gela- tinous, and not easily distinguishable from the latter. The gray sub- stance up to the fourth ventricle and the corpora quadrig. was extremely hypersemic, and reddish ; the autero-lateral columns very vascular, but otherwise normal; the small cells of the gray matter in the lumbar region were destroyed, those of the anterior horns and in the centre of the medulla distinguishable, but surrounded by pigment. Numerous amyloid corpuscles were present in the medullary substance, which iu most parts was diseased. The connective tissue was not hypertrophied. ViDAL (Gaz. des Hopit., 127, 1862).—Duquet (L'Union, 122, 1862).— Hebschell (Bull, de Therap., Ixiii, Oct., 1862). Record cases of Ataxie locomotrice progressive successfully treated by nitrate of silver. Vidal's patient was set. 45, addicted to sexual excess. The lower extremities alone were affected. He had constant hyperses- thesia of the skin, with diminished tactile sensibility; loss of muscular sensibility, without impairment of muscular power; paralysis of the sphincter aui and of the virile power. The movements of his legs were unsteady and not co-ordinated; he could not walk if his eyes were closed. After taking Argenti Nitr. in daily doses of one to two thirds of a grain for about two months, he recovered to a great extent. Duguet's patient was a female, set. 39, wno had been much weakened by frequent losses of blood, and became very anemic. Epileptic attacks ensued, and recurred several times. It was now found that slie had the symptoms of Ataxie loc. progr., but limited to the right arm and leg. The movements of both these limbs were quite un-coordinated ; tlie patient was quite unable to walk. The tactile sensibility of the whole right half of the body was very dull, but that of temperature was normal; electric sensi- bility and contractility were not impaired. Amblyopia existed, and the mental faculties were weakened. After three months' treatment with nitrate of silver the patient had in great measure recovered the use of the right arm and leg, her memory and speech had much improved, only the vision was in nearly the same state. Herscheli's patient was a rope- maker, fet. 47, who was almost completely amaurotic, had nearly lost