4.27 0RGA2IIC SUBSTANCES. occurs almost instantly. The animal lies flaccid on the table, and exhi- bits muscular power only by a few twitches ; after a few gasps the respira- tions cease. The contraction of the pupils during life, and their ddatation after death, are observed in these cases also. The heart is, under these circumstances, found distended and passive; contractions may, however, at first be produced by irritation of the organ. The vermicular action of the intestines is much diminished. No muscular contractions can be produced by pinching the motor nerves. These effects are the same whatever be the channel by which this agent is introduced into the body. It has been injected into the blood, and it has been placed in contact with a wounded surface, or with the muscular and nervous tissues. It has also been placed in the stomach and rectum, in the serous cavities, and on the surface of the various mucous membranes. No effects were, however, produced in the rabbit by its application to a surface of skin denuded of the cuticle. The spermoderm of the bean, which is remarkably hard and tough, is also poisonous. When placed in hot water, it becomes soft, but cold water has no action on it. When gi\ i—iv of the alcoholic extract of this part of the seed, answering to from sixteen to sixty-fom* grains of its substance, are placed in the areolar tissue of a rabbit, effects are produced similar to those observed when the kernel is used. The con- traction of the pupils is not, however, complete ; the iris always remains sensitive to light. This part of the bean also produces diuresis and evacuations of watery fieces. The paralysis is strikingly sliown by the inability of the limbs to support the body, and by the trembling move- ments of the head. These effects were recovered from in from two to three hours. In no instance did death follow the administration of the spermoderm. The alcoholic extract of the kernel was also found to exert a topicaFparalysing influence, when applied to a dissected living muscle or to any part of the intestines. When the poison was injected into one of the cavities of the heart the action of the organ ceased, but applying the extract to the surface of the heart caused only a temporary suspension of its action. When placed in contact with one eye it caused contraction of the pupil, and the effect was limited to the eye to which it was applied. Dr. Praser shows that the effects of the Calabar bean are those which, according to LegaUois and P. Wilson, are produced by agents which act primarily on the spinal cord. He ascribes the contraction of the pupil to paralysis of the nerves which pass from the medulla to the dilator fibres of the iris. The action of the bean appeared so exactly the oppo- site of that of strychnia, that it was thought desirable to test its powers as an antidote to that alkaloid. A poisonous dose of strychnia was, therefore, given to a full-grown rabbit; and when its action had been decidedly produced, a poisonous dose of the extract of the physostigma was injected into the flank. All convulsions in the hind limbs ceased at once, and they became flaccid; but rigidity and violent spasms occurred alternately in the anterior limbs and the fore part of the trunk. Shortly afterwards the animal died. Wc have at present only an imperfect knowledge of the effects of this agent on man. It is estimated that r 20 persons are killed annually by its