162 REPOET ON P11ACTICA.L MEDICINE. the commencement of the tuberculization, increases in proportion to the progress of the disease ; it may reach in the second period ten centi- metres for the upper circumference, eight for the mammary, and six for the lower. (3) The upper circumference of ihe chest, with but few ex- ceptions, is very much larger than the mammary and lower ones in all the periods of the tubercular affection. (4) The interval between the two nipples in man gives an exact idea of the size of the thorax ; it represents the quarter of the mammary circumference ; in the adult it measures 29 centimetres in the normal condition ; 19 in the earlier period of phthisis, and 17 in the second. (5) The measurement of the inter- mammary space deserves attention, and should be an element of diagnosis in the appreciation of any tendency to pulmonary phthisis. The author lays stress on hygiene and special gymnastics of the respiratory organs as essential elements of the pi-ophylactic treatment of phthisis. Efforts of inspiration and exercise of the upper limbs should be resorted to for the dilatation of the chest. Millet, Aug.—On the danger of employing Ferruginous Preparations at the commencement of Phthisis. Bull. Gen. de Therap., June 15th, 1863. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., Jan. Millet is of opinion that the anaemia, which is one of the precursory phenomena of phthisis in certain young women, is only temporarily benefited by the administration of iron, which fearfully accelerates the progress of the tuberculous degeneration. Cotton, R. P.—Med. Times and Gaz., May 30th. States, with regard to the use of dilute phosphoric acid in phthisis— (i) That it acts beneficially as a tonic in certain instances, but that as a general rule it is inferior to some of the other mineral acids. (2) That when taken in conjunction with iron its good effects appear to be con- siderably enhanced. Of twenty-five cases, three were much benefited, and eight a little, and fourteen derived no benefit from taking the drug. Leaked, A., M.D.—0?t the Treatment of Phthisis by the Hot-air Bath. Lancet, Nov. 21st, Dec. _5th. Leared records three cases, in all of which the bath appears to have been highly beneficial. In two of them the disease was very serious. Coughs, dyspnoea, and night sweats, were decidedly relieved by the bath. Hsemoptj'sis was never induced by it. No debility was produced by the bath, but its effect was rather comforting and sustaining. Leared thinks that the hot-air bath and cold plunge in a great measure supply the defi- ciencies of climate, by rendering patients more tolerant of our own change- able seasons. Leudet.—0?» the use of Acetate of Lead in Pneumonia. Bullet. Gdner de Th6rapeut., Nov. i^th, 1862. Brit. Med. Jour., Jan. 17th. The remedy was given inVorty cases (thirty-one males and nnie females), of whom three died. The disease was unilateral in nil but one. The mean age of the patients was 364 years. The duration of the use of the medicine varied from one to fifteen days, the average being six. Ibe total