357 jrECIIANlS.M OF DELIVERY. was congenital. It seems improbable that the development of one side of the uterus could have been the cause, inasmuch as the interior of the uterus was perfectly symmetrical, and the walls of equal thickness. Dr. MuUer ('AUgem. "Wien. Med. Zeit.,' 1862) records a case of extra- uterine foetation, in which the ovum became enveloped in an inguinal hernia of the right side, so that the sac springing from the inguinal region formed a round tumour reaching to the knees, and weighed eight pounds. A mature living child was removed by operation. The mother died shortly after of internal haemorrhage. A post-mortem examination was not permitted. Dr. Simpson relates the following case for Prof. Simpson (' Ed. Med. Jour.,' Sept., 1863). The patient, set. 45, usually enjoying good health, had not been pregnant for twelve years, and suffered from severe pelvic pains. A sensitive tumour stretched across the pelvis, between the uterus and rectum, wanting some of the characters of pelvic abscess, but possessing most of those of a pelvic hsematoma. Suddenly the tumour greatly enlarged, and produced distressing and urgent symptoms. The author made an opening into the mass through the roof of the vagina. Several large, old, and recent coagula were discharged, and at last the foot of a small foetus projected; a slender, early, entire foetus, with the placenta, was extracted, and the patient recovered. Dr. Matthews Duncan exhibited to the Med.-Chir. Society of Edinburgh, June, 1863, a foetus nearly fully developed, but in an advanced stage of decomposition, which he had delivered per auum as a breech presentation. After the birth of the child the author passed his hand and arm per anura into the cyst, to examine it and remove its contents. In spite of this immense distension, the bowel recovered its function so quickly that six days after the operation the sphincter had completely regained its power ('Ed. Med. Jour.,' July, 1863). MECHANISM OP DELIVEEY. The following are the conclusions arrived at by M. Laborie, in a memoir " On the part which the symphysis pubis plays during the process of labour" ('Gaz. Hebdom.,' torn, ix. No. 34, 1862, and'Mon. f. Geb.,' May, 1863). (1) Almost all accoucheurs assume that the ligaments uniting the articulation of the pelvis become relaxed during pregnancy ; through this the joints attain a certain degree of mobility, the extent of which, however, is very indefinite. (2) All anatomists now place the sym- physis, sacro-iliac, and pubic, in the class of arthrodia. According, hovyever, to the author's observations in the pelves of recently delivered women, these joints belong to a special class of themselves; for while, by their opposing surfaces, which on the one bone are con- cave and on the other convex, they present the cliaracter of the enarthrodia, they also, by appearing only movable in one direction show their resemblance to the ginglymoid joints. (3) It is only when the child enters the true pelvis, and is fairly engaged in it, that the mobility of the symphysis exercises any influence upon the act of birth.