250 UEPOIIT ON SUIIOERY. longer sees double, except when looking fur to the right side. Wlieii looking straight heforo him, the visual axes are pai-allel. There iR iieceusarily a decided limitation in tlic excursion which the eye can per- form ; but tlio range of its rotation, so far as it reaches, now corresponds to the other eye. October ,3rd.—Tiie position of tlie globe remains the same—its correction being i)erfect—but the arc of rotation is no greater. Tiiere is a slight degree of prominence of tlie eyeball. A black spot marks the original insertion of tlie external rectus. Patient is much gra- tified with the improvement of his appearance. Does not have diplopia. " This operation is troublesome to perform, and requires for its suc- cess great docility on tiie part of tlie patient. The thread ought to be retained in place for twenty-four hours. I kept it in longer, because the patient made no complaint of it. AVhen removed, after only twelve hours, the muscle has been found to adhere firmly ; but the longer the extreme inversion is kept up, the better Avill the new union bear the strain. There need be no fear of producing permanent converging squint. It is better that convergence should be the immediate result, because the eye will adjust itself in a little time, as the new union stretches. The same proceeding may be used in cases of paralysis of one of the ocular muscles. The muscle must not have entirely lost its contractility, and the paralysis must be old enough to be sure that no further improvement is to be expected by natural efforts. Bringing forward the paralysed muscle enables it to act at a greater advantage, and the slight weakening of the antagonist, which the operation pro- duces, is in favour of tlie paralysed muscle." F. O. Danders, on the pathogenesis of strabisimts ('Arch. f. Ophth.,' vol. ix, part i, p. 99). The researches on the accommodative and refrac- tive diseases of the eye have assisted in the highest degree in clearing up the pathogenesis of squinting. The following i-emarks are drawn from 280 cases which Bonders most carefully examined ; the sex, age, ordi- nary occupation, refractive condition and range of accommodation, extent of motion, constancy or variability of the squint-angle, time and manner of occurrence, hereditary influences, complications, such as diplopia or contraction of the field of vision, were always noted. The most important points discovered were, that convergent squint is usually the result of hypermetropia, and divergent of myopia. (i) Psendo-sirabismiis.—The visual lines* are parallel when two eyes, unaffected by strabismus, fix an object situated at infinite dis- tance.' If they are not parallel, there is strabismus ; but even if thej' are parallel, there may be pseudo-strabismus. The latter plays an impor- tant part in the development of true strabismus, and must accordingly be first discussed. It depends on the relations of the visual lines to the corneal axes. The two do not coincide ; the one is intersected by the other in the single knot-point (of the reduced eye), and the visual line strikes the cornea at the nasal side of the axis. The angle formed by these two lines at the knot-point averages, according to the observa- * For an explanation of various technical terms used in this paper, the reader may be referred to an article entitled " Recent Researches on the Optical Relations of the Eve," ' Brit, and For. Med.-Chir Rev.,' 1862, vol. xxix, p. 1.