444 IIKPOUT ON FOIIENSIC JIEDICINK, ozonized substance is then ndtled to it, and afterwards Tinct. Giiaiaci, when a distinct blue colour is developed. Oil of turpentine which has been kept for some time exposed to the air iisually contains enough ozone to effect this reaction, if a few drops of it be mixed with the solution of blood. According to Schonbein, the iron contained in the blood is the element which is concerned in this effect. Van Deen, therefore, made a series of experiments with different salts of iron. He found that the acetate, citrate, and chloride of iron produce the blue colour in a marked degree, and other salts less distinctly. The sulphate and subacctate of copper also give the same reaction as blood, when examined in this way. But the different red salts of lead and antimony, as well as various red vegetable colouring matters, logwood, brazil-wood, and sandal-wood, gave xiniformly negative results. The preparations of iron which give the blue colour are easily distinguished from blood by the caustic solution of ammonia, which forms a red precipitate in the iron solution, while it gives to blood a greenish-yellow tint. Old blood, kept in the fluid state, even though it be decomposed, reacts on this test more powerfully than blood recently drawn. Dr. Liman ('Casper,' 1863, Band xxiv, p. 193) records a series of ex- periments made with the object of testing the value of this process. At first he used oil of turpentine, which was artificially ozonized, but he soon found that this was superfluous. In order to ascertain whether oil of turpentine contains ozone, it is only necessary to examine whether it has the power of bleaching a solution of indigo. The tincture of guaiacum used should be freshly prepared from resin taken out of the centre of a lump, as it undergoes changes when exposed to the action of air and light, which may interfere with the success of the test. The most important of Liman's experiments are the following:— Exp. 8.—Blood two years old, dissolved in water, and diluted so that it formed one part in 3000, gave a distinct reaction. Exp. 12.—Recent blood, mixed with 6000 parts of water (in the proportion of one drop to eight ounces), assumed a clear blue colour, Exp. 13.—The same blood, added to water, so that it formed 47),V(T-oth part, gave no distinct coloration. Van Deen had been successful with blood even in this diluted condition. Exp. 14.—A few drops of rabbit's blood, poured into a glass, and diluted with water, so that the mixture was colourless, gave the reaction at once. Exp. 15—21.—Urine and bile gave no blue colour with this test, but they did not interfere with its development, when mixed with blood. Cherry juice gave negative results. Exp, 2^5—46 were made on blood-stains seated on various stuffs and tools. Blood on shirting, and on black and rose-coloured silk, on brown wool, and on wood, gave a deep-blue colour at once. Blood-stains fourteen days old were washed out with spring water; they were dried in the air, and were then soaked in water for twenty-four hours. There were then but slight traces of them visible ; the fluid was feebly coloured. The test was perfectly successful. In another experiment, the stained linen was washed, and dried by exposure to heat; The linen then had a greenish colour, and looked as if covered by spots of pus or mucus ; a distinct reaction was obtained. It is not necessary that the stains should be dissolved out for the application of this test, A piece of linen, on which there was a blood-stain some days