EEPOET ON PMCTIC/VL MEDICINE AND PATHOLOGY. BY C. HANDriELD JONES, M.B. Cantab., E.E.S., PHYSICIAN TO ST. MARY's HOSPITAL. GENERAL PATHOLOGY. Tdener, W., M.B.—On the present aspect of the doctrine of Cellular Patholoffij. Edin. Med. Jouru., April, 1863. Turner, adopting the above doctrine, adduces at some length details of its correctness in the case of the inflammatory changes occurring in the connective tissue in the cornea, in cartilage, bone, muscles, nerves, mucous membranes, serous membranes, skin, secreting glands, and in cancer and tubercle. He cites a case from bis own observation, where the increase and growth of a cancer in a muscle depended evidently on multiplication of the nuclei belonging to the original fibres. In an inflamed pleura he traces also similar changes occurring in the subepithelial connective tissue corpuscles. The paper is suited for reference, but not for analysis. Chambers, T. K.—Lumleian Lectures on the formation of Mucus and Vus. Lancet, Aug. 8th, 15th, 22nd. Chambers describes the lowermost corjjuscles of epidermis, those resting on the surface of the cutis, as granular masses " identical with those seen in mucus." So when the superficial layer of epithelium is detached from mucous membranes, "there are brought into view floating granular masses of various sizes, which constitute what are familiarly known as raucous globules." They are exactly identical with those of the rete nuicosum of the skin. These mucous globules Chambers thinks have the faculty of giving birth to an individual, and so to a succession of indi- viduals, like itself. If we watch one nuclear mass we may often see a gradual change in its appearance. First a clearer nucleus appears in it, then two, three, or more smaller nuclei. Then the fine granular specks in its sides coalesce into a nucleus. Then a nucleus bulges and buds out from its side, and gets a constricted neck, which gives way, and the bud floats off as a separate globule. Or the whole globule may divide into two, 3