IIKPOUT ON PltACTfCAL SIKDICINK. so some parts and too dull in others, then there is disharmony In the move- ments, which the sense of vision can only partially correct. Benedikt, M.—On Quasi-paralytic disorders of Mohility, wilhonf proper Paralysis. Wien. Med. W'chnschr., xii, 44—48, 1862. Scimiidl's Jahrb., vol. 118, p. 173. Benedikt enumerates as the causes of these disorders—(i) alterations of the sensibility; (2) disorders of the equilibrium of antagonist groups of muscles ; (3) loss of the power of localizing movements ; (4) want of proportion between the normal volitional stimulus and the excitability and conducting power of different parts of the nervous system ; and (5) general disturbance of the functions of the brain, without complete loss of any of them. With regard to the affection Ataxic locomotrice, he views it as made up of two factors, vi//., loss of muscular consciousness (in acting) and loss of appropriate co-ordination of the movements. Ataxia may, how- ever, exist without the loss of muscular consciousness or of cutaneous sensibility. Defective co-ordination, he remarks, is not a rare symptom. It is met with in many partial paralyses, and is produced by the volitional stimulus acting unduly on the antagonist muscles, when those which should execute a movement are incapable of contracting properly. The antagonist muscles are always set in play to a certain extent, for the pur- pose of regulating the action of the others. To produce ataxia, it is by no means necessary that one whole group of muscles should be paralysed completely. Any affection which impairs the functional excitability of the central nervous apparatus may produce ataxia, and so may any dis- order of the conducting nerves, or of their terminal extremities at the periphery, provided they are non-uniformly affected. Static spasms (v. Romberg, vol, ii, p. 156) afford most striking instances of cerebral ataxia, while peripheric is very common in paretic conditions of individual muscles of the eye. Spinal ataxia is characteristic of tabes dorsalis. Empis.—Gaz. des Hopit,, 73, 77, 1862, Schmidt's Jahrb., vol, 117, p. 32. Relates a case of progressive paralysis of the lips, tongue, and palate, in which the orbicularis oris and all the muscles supplied by the facial nerve maintained their electric contractility completely. Reynolds, J. Russell, records ('Lancet,' July 11th), a case of incipient wasting palsy, cured by strychnia, gr, ^-^ ter die. The man, £et. thirty, had fallen, while skating, on the back of his head, and some weeks after he suffered with impaired vision of the left eye, dilatation of the left pupil, and constant pain in the head. These symp- toms ceased, but recurred again for a time, and have always yielded rapidly to treatment. About nine or ten months from the date of the accident the muscles of the left upper arm and shoulder began to waste. The interrupted current was of marked benefit in improving the bulk and nutrition of the muscles; the continuous w^as of no avail. Reynolds deduces from the detailed history of the case the following conclusions :-— Since the loss of power did not depend solely upon the impaired nutri- tion of the muscles, and the muscular tissue was not primarily affected, it may be inferred—(i) That neither the muscular tissue nor the ganglionic