18 From whatever point of view, then, you look at this important subject, the study of which you are about to commence, you find that the motives which prompt you to engage in it, are as imperative as any that could be adduced to stimulate you in any other pursuit that could be named, no matter what its character may be, whether it he intellectual or practical. The nature of the subject, invites you to enter upon it; interest points to it, as being indispensably neces- sary for professional success, and duty prescribes it as the very basis of your professional education : surely, then, it is not too much to expect, that when so many inducements conspire to point out a parti- cular line of action, they will not fail to exert a decided influence on the tenor of your pursuits and cotiduct whilst here. During the progress of your studies you are for the most part en- gaged in considering anatomy in its practical relations to pathology, or the science of disease. You are necessarily aware of the division of the healing art into two compartments, medicine and surgery. A correct knowledge of the structure of the human body is indispensably necessary to a right understanding of either, and it is rather re- markable that the method of study and investigation differs according as it is undertaken, in reference to the one or the other. The prin- ciple of analysis guides us in each, but the mode of conducting it varies. Thus, when we examine the structure of internal organs, as a necessary preliminary to an investigation of their functions and diseases, we resolve these parts severally into the elementary textures of which they are composed, and then study the characters, compo- sition,—the physical and vital properties of each texture, separately. After which we consider them in their various combinations in the organs which they collectively make up. This mode of considering organized bodies is not an unnatural abstraction, or a speculative refinement; it arises from the nature of their composition, and is founded on the most approved principles of philosophical investigation. We may exemplify this method of proceeding, by considering the application that has been made of it in the study of diseases of the lungs. We find these organs invested externally by a serous, and internally lined by a mucous membrane, which pervades the bronchial tubes,