28 even in their external forms, essential differences between them and minerals. The surfaces of vegetables or animals are never bounded by straight lines, we never find in them the polyhedral form. Vege- tables present externally a simple curve, [fig. 2y\ animals generally a doubled curve, [fig. 3, 4.] Organized bodies cannot be separated into layers, in the same way as minerals can, for, though they pre- sent a lamellated arrangement, still the lamella? cannot be detached or separated without being torn, or probably without causing the death of the body to which they belong. Still water, or any other fluid, may be introduced into the meshes of their reticulated texture, without producing any alteration in their form, or inducing any other change, except an increase of weight and size. From this it appears that the parts of organized structures are held together by a force not only superior to that of attraction, but altogether different from it. The composition of organized bodies is not homogeneous through- out their entire extent, like that of minerals; on the contrary, it differs very considerably in different parts. Thus, phosphate of lime, the chief constituent of bone, could never be mistaken for fibrine, which is the basis of the muscular structure. And, even when the integrant particles are identical, their arrangement and mode of dis- tribution may vary considerably. Thus the long and hard bones differ very much in texture from those that are soft and spongy; the muscles of animal life can be easily distinguished from those of organic life. If these obvious facts be considered attentively, we must at once see that such marked differences could not exist if the integrant particles of animal structures were governed merely by the laws of attraction. I have already stated the mode in which unorganized bodies, such as crystals, are formed, commencing with a central nucleus [fig. 1;] they are enlarged by the deposition of layers on its surfaces. Hence, as the increase thus proceeds from the centre of the circumference, it may be termed concentric. Organized bodies, I should say those of the animal kingdom, grow and increase by a process the reverse of this. The developement of each part taken singly, and of the whole body taken in its aggregate, begins at the circumference, and thence pro- ceeds towards the centre, so that the outline of each part and of the