32 very strikingly. The skull is altogether open at the vertex, the parietal bones [6, are mere rudiments and somewhat everted, the frontal bone [a,] is depressed, forming a flat surface, the occipital bone presents its basilar part nearly perfect, but unconnected with the lateral masses, which are depressed and turned outwards. The spinal column is open in its entire length, the arches of the vertebrae [«/»/">] are more than an inch apart, and curve outwards to the ribs, except at the lower part of the lumbar region, and in the sacrum, where they take their natural direction, but are still very far asun- der, and form a deep groove. These facts are important in many points of view. The law or general principle deduced from them, viz. that the developement of animal bodies proceed from circumference to centre, or eccentrically, is decisive with regard to some of the most difficult questions con- cerning organization and life. I call your attention to these facts, and to the inferences which flow from them; I dwell on them thus fully, not merely because they are interesting, in the highest degree, but because they throw con- siderable light, and, in my humble judgment, determine the great question so long at issue between the two chief sects of physiologists, the Vitalists and the Materialists. And so far as I know, this spe- cial application (and it is a very important one,) of the facts and principles derived from researches into the growth and developement of organized structures has not hitherto been made. We may con- trast the characters of organized structures with those of unorganized bodies, we find no great difficulty in indicating in general terms the distinction between them. When we compare their external forms and internal arrangement and structure, we find the differences still more strongly marked; but still we are not able to draw a conclusive line of demarkation until we investigate the process of growth and increase in each. The particles which enter into the composition of our frame, so far from being disposed or arranged according to the laws of at- traction, obey a rule the very reverse of this, as we have already seen; and moreover the eccentric developement is found to obtain even on those structures which, in external appearance and character, more nearly resemble unorganized matter than any other parts of the living