24 man himself, the lord of the creation, may possibly come from a fish or a reptile.'' It is a favorite opinion with some that Cosmogonists are generally sceptics. Yet there certainly is nothing in the study of the pheno- mena of Nature which has a tendency to beget what is called scep- ticism; quite the contrary is the fact. I believe it would be much more near the truth to say, that sceptics generally become cosmo- gonists; for if we could follow the progress of opinion in persons who deserve the name of sceptics, and trace it through the steps of its changes, 1 rather think we should find that these individuals had, in the first instance, acquired a particular bias, and then proceeded to generalise their preconceived notions by making application of them to any other topics that may have to come within the sphere of their inquiries. It must be from some such bias as this, that the Geologist can conceive it possible that the varied phenomena of life may be re- ferred to the laws which govern the particles of inert matter, and that the Zoologist—having surveyed the links of the extended chain which connects the highest with the lowest order of animals, and having noted the steps of the gradation by which they rise, one over the other, in proportion as they are endowed with a more complete or- ganization and a greater extent of power,—hastily comes to the con- clusion, that the more perfect animal is but an emanation from, or a descendant of the less perfect, and that it had gone through a progress of improvement and change analogous to that observed in Insects, in which the ovum is evolved into the larva, the larva into the crysalis, and this again into the perfect insect. The errors of such hypotheses as these, and the sources from which they spring, are readily perceived by placing them together and contrasting them. Each bears the impress of a mind strongly biassed by principles, deduced from a favorite pursuit, and both wan- der equally beyond the bounds of strict observation and legitimate inference. The geologist overlooks the absurdity he commits when he assumes that matter,—-one of whose most obvious properties is inertness,—can impress on itself powers, viz. those of life, which can altogether control the fundamental properly by which matter is "•ovemed, viz. attraction. And the zoologist, when he founds a system