t 10 and give to each limb, as well as to the body, such a degree of ex- pansion or development as will make it represent a Fish, a Reptile, a Bird, or a Quadruped. Thus, for example, leaving the anterior Extre- mity in its rndimental state, we leave it at the bottom of the scale in form of the Fish's fin. [In 4, a represents the bones of the Shoul- der; e, f, the Radius and Ulna; d, the fin-rays, being so many digital processes. J We find the osseous structure very perfect in the limbs of the Amphibiae: [fig. 5 represents the arm of the land Tortoise.] Passing over the Reptiles, where it still remaius un- solved, it must be developed considerably to form the wing in the Bird tribe ;f [fig. 6 shows part of the wing of a Bird ;/, the Radius, £, Ulna; h, Carpus; i, the Thumb; A;, Meta-carpal Bone of the great Finger; /, same Bone of the little Finger; m, the great Finger, with its two Phalanges; n, the little Finger.] And the parts, by re- ceiving their appropriate adjustment, will be made to represent the foot of the Dog, that of the Horse, and finally the hand of Man. Having thus completed and sketched out a part in each, we may, by a similar process, complete the figure by following it out through the posterior Extremity, and then the body, spine, and head; the parts of the skull being analogous to vertebrae. It is in this way only that we can form any adequate idea or conception of the plan or groundwork from which the different varieties of animal forms are deduced. For, when we look over a menagerie, or a great assemblage of animals, our first impression is that of variety and discrepancy, hut, on a closer inspection, we find that some are nearly allied, and form groups or families, marked by certain pecu- liarities and natural affinities. But we could never have supposed that any uniformity of plan ran through them all, unless we had examined t Fig. 9 is right Fore-leg of a Dog; a, Humerus; b, Radius; c, Ulna; d, Carpus; e, Meta-carpus; f,g, h, Phalanges. Fig. 8 is part of the Foie-Ieg of a Horse; d, Carpus ; e, the great Meta-carpal, or Cannon Bone; E*9", Rudiment of the second Meta-carpal Bone;/, first Phalanx, or Fetlock ; g, the second (Coronet) ; h, the third, or Coffin Bone. Fig. 10. The anterior Extremity in the Goat, the letters of reference indicate the correspondence of its parts with those of other animals above it and below it in the animal series.