8 modification of its constituents. The bones, the muscles, vessels, and nerves, of the Thumb, and of the great Toe, are respectively analogous, yet how different are the purposes which they are intended to fulfil ? The first bone of the Toe is thick and strong, it ranges with those of the other toes, and admits of little more motion than they do, as it is one of the chief points on which the weight of the body is thrown in its different movements. The first bone of the Thumb admits of every variety of motion; it does not range with those of the Fin- gers, from which arises its most striking peculiarity, that of being brought into opposition with the rest. Iu its various uses, it is not merely a part of the Hand,—it is rather a new member, or a supple- mental hand. Thus we see what a variety of results are obtained from a few materials, and how, by a modification in the form, proportion, and arrangement of the same constituents, new Instruments are pro- duced,—new Powers created. But let us not confine our attention to the structure of the human frame, let us glance at that of animals, still, for illustration, confining our attention to the instance already selected, viz. the upper or anterior Extremity ; take that in one of the lower animals, say the Cat; ordinarily it sustains the body, therefore, is an instrument of support; its parts move on one another, and, when acted on by the muscles, it becomes an instrument of progression ; it is terminated by moveable phalanges, which may be flexed or extended, and so it becomes a means of prehension; finally, the last phalanges, which are usually turned back, may be pushed forward to a line with the rest, protruding the sharp nails with which they are armed, and so it becomes an instrument of attack or defence. In the Monkey this limb serves for support, and progression, but chiefly for the prehension of objects ; it is not well calculated for defence or attack. In the Dog and in hoofed Animals it serves for support and progress; in Birds for progression only ; whilst in Fishes it merely assists in progression, as that is effected chiefly by the movement of the hinder part of the body. Now, in the anterior limb in all these animals, we find the same bones, muscles, nerves, vessels, &c. ; and all the variety of purpose which they serve is attained by modifications in the size, form, and mode of connexion of these components. We often speak