31 this could not long have retained its influence. The active spirit of man will always prefer an hypothesis, however gratuitous, to total inaction. Accordingly we find that several attempts have heen made to explain such productions. During those times in which hypothesis took precedence of in- quiry, and speculation served as a substitute for research, it would be vain to expect that the opinions entertained on such subjects could be otherwise than wild and visionary; but, when reason resumed her seat, the visionary and the speculative were relegated to the illiterate, amongst whom they still hold dominion; for the prejudices of the vulgar, hi too many instances, are but the cast clothes of philosophers. It is now, however, clearly ascertained by researches, conducted in the true spirit of philosophic inquiry, that the different anomalies of form and structure, which from time to time occur in the human foetus, are determined by a partial suspension or derangement of the process of developement, by which certain parts are left more or less incomplete, and stinted of their natural proportions. This of course occurs most usually along the median line, and in one case will amount to no more than a hare-lip, [fig. 8, a,] or a fissured palate, which are owing to a want of union between their lateral parts. The various forms of hermaphrodism are attributable to a want of union in the pubic and perineal regions, or rather to a de- raugement in the developement of the generative system ; and if the walls of the abdomen be incomplete, from the same cause, the viscera may remain more or less uncovered, [fig. 8.] In acephalous cases, from the like cause, the spinal chord and brain may be totally want- ing; or, whilst the former attains its natural proportions, the latter may remain incomplete to a greater or less extent. Whatever be the degree of deficiency in the cerebro-spinal organs, it is in all cases accompanied by a corresponding defect in the osseous cavity in which it is lodged. In some cases the cranial bones remain as mere rudi- ments, and the vertebral canal is open in its entire extent; in others the latter is closed, the imperfection being confined to the cranium and brain. The skeleton before you, the appearance of which is correctly expressed in the drawing, [fig. 9,] exhibits some of these deviations