33 fabric, for instance, in the teeth, and in the tusks of animals; if even, in such structures, the process of growth here indicated obtains,—if dur- ing their growth the influence of attraction is suspended, and even contravened, it furnishes an argument, " a fortiori," against the pro- bability of its obtaining in those other parts of the system which differ so obviously—so essentially, from every form of inert matter. Within the jaw, during early infancy, we find a series of small mem. branous sacs, the precursors of the future teeth. They receive small branches from the dental vessels. I need not enter further into details just now, suffice it to say, that at the bottom of the sac- culus (adopting that term as a means of distinguishing the internal membrane, or shut sac, from the external one which is reflected over it,) a soft, vascular mass arises, supplied with vessels and nerves, de- rived from those ramified on the sacculus. This mass gradually increases, and assumes the form of the tooth, and constitutes, as it were, the model on which it is to be moulded. The osseous matter begins to be deposited first on its free surface, in a thin lamella, cor- responding with the crown of the tooth; or rather in dots or scales, corresponding with each of the inequalities on its upper surface, and gradually uniting to form a lamella. When the breadth is completed, the growth in length begins, and extends from the crown to the roots, by successive depositions on the exterior of the pulp; so that it may be said to clothe itself in osseous matter, the roots being the parts last formed, the crown first. The bony lamella is at first remarkably thin, and the contained cavity of considerable size ; but, as the former increases in thickness, by successive depositions on its inner surface, the latter and its enclosed pulp become proportionally diminished, until the roots and body of the tooth have acquired their proper degree of thickness. [Plate 2, fig. 10. o. p. q. r. s.] Unorganized bodies once formed remain fixed and unchanged, neither admitting of movement amongst their parts, or allowing the insinuation between them of substances of the same or of a different kind. Organized bodies consist of solid and fluid parts, and, so long as life last, the fluids are subjected to a constant movement; but, movement is not confined to the fluids ; the solids are likewise sub. jected to a ceaseless internal change, in which we can trace evidences F