43 < wonderfully accommodated to debate." The way that promises success is the reverse of this. It requires that we should GENERALIZE SLOWLY, GOING FROM PARTICULAR THINGS TO THOSE WHICH ARE BUT ONE STEP MORE GENERAL, AND FROM THESE TO OTHERS OF STILL GREATER" EXTENT, AND SO ON TO such as are universal. By such means we may hope to arrive at principles not vague and obscure, hut luminous and well-defined, such as Nature herself will not refuse to acknowledge." This is the Inductive Method, as taught by Bacon, and practised by Newton. To observe patiently, experiment cautiously, and gene- ralize slowly, are the precepts it enjoins for the guidance of our own researches, and the tests which it suggests for estimating the value of the opinions and researches of others. The bias of prepossession, —the influence of authority, has but too long led away the mind from a conformity with its precepts;—these disturbing causes have now nearly passed away, for in our schools no general theory is taught,—no uncompromising dogma is inculcated,—no individual stands so pre-eminent in station as to draw after him a crowd of fol- lowers ready to take his dictum as law, and resolved when they set forward in life, to make their practice square with his injunctions; —in a word, there no longer exists a monarchy in medicine, and, were we to look back to the history of those times in which the men of that profession were little else than the obsequious followers of a few dis- tinguished individuals, we should find little reason to regret that their dynasty is at an end. And let not this excite surprise or regret,—it should rather be a ground of satisfaction and gratulation, inasmuch as it has arisen, not from any causes tending to depress the few, but from the wide spread of knowledge, which has tended to elevate the many. There never was a period in the history of Medicine in which there was less to discourage inquiry than at the present; there never was a time in which so many circumstances conspired to invite a scrutiny into every department of Physiology. The Mind is no longer pros- trated by the domination of authority, nor is Reason warped by the influence of system. The errors of our predecessors are so many beacons to warn us from straying into the devious tracks into which