39 t'ession to which he belonged, and the country which gave him birth. I allude to the doctrine of the circulation of the blood, as taught by Harvey. I call your attention to it in consequence of the evidence of design and contrivance which the circulating system presents, and also because it was a consideration of such evidences that led Harvey to that discovery which has immortalized his name. We all now know that the blood flows from the heart in one set of vessels, and returns to it by another, so as in its course to describe a circle. Yet, how is it proved that it flows continuously, and does not oscil- late to and fro ? that it flows in a particular direction, and not in another, or in the opposite one ? The proofs are of two sorts, the first founded on direct experiment, the second on a consideration of the uses, purposes, or final causes, of certain arrangements in the heart and circulating vessels. If a ligature be placed on the artery of the arm at the elbow, the vessel becomes empty below the ligature, for the supply from the heart is cut off; but, if the ligature be tied round the vein, the vessel swells and fills below it, because the return of the stream to the heart is prevented. This establishes the fact that the blood flows from the heart in the arteries, and to the heart in the veins. Again, by examining the interior of the heart, and of vessels, we discover the second series of proofs, for we find, within the veins, a number of valves or flood-gates, all inclined one way, and so disposed as to allow the current to pass freely towards the heart, and at the same time form so many barriers to its reflux. In the cavities of the heart, also, similar valves or flood-gates are placed, so as to permit the blood to pass in a particular direction, and prevent its regurgitation; and when the stream flows from the heart into the large artery, its return is opposed by a similar contrivance. We can thus trace the current through the different stages of its course; from vein to recipient [auricle], from recipient to propellent [ventricle], from propellent to artery, which transfers the residue of the blood to the vein again; and so the circle is completed. Each link of the chain has its peculiarities; each part exhibits a special adaptation; and the whole the very impress of desigti and contrivance. In the study of Physiology this must always be kept in view; but it requires no effort to do so, as the adaptation of means to end,