41 stated all the facts relative to these points, you have given a description of the part, inasmuch as you have followed the descriptive method of investigation; and this is all that is usually done in works on Descriptive Anatomy,—they give merely the topography of parts. It must be obvious that it is not sufficient for our purposes thus to confine attention to the surface ol things : our inquiries are not to be limited to external qualities, or mere relations of place. We desire to become acquainted with the composition and structure of the human frame, or, in other words, with the elements of which it is made up. With this view, we resolve it into its constituents, and then examine the character and properties of each of these separately, as a necessary prelimi- nary to a just appreciation of their powers when combined. This is the method by analysis. Its application and use were indicated yes- terday, when treating of what is termed General Anatomy, but which ought rather to be called Analytical or Structural Anatomy. As the phenomena included in a particular function, or in the derangement of it, do not present themselves to us at once, but occur in succession, it becomes necessary not merely to enumerate them, but to set them down in the exact order of their occurrence. When treating of the digestive function, for instance, we have to consider the mechanism employed in the prehension and mastication of food,—its impregnation with saliva,—its deglutition and con- veyance to the stomach,—the changes which the mass undergoes in that viscus, and afterwards successively as it passes step by step through the different parts of the alimentary canal. When these particulars are fully stated, the narrative is complete, and we have conformed to what is termed the Historical Method. We cannot, however, confine ourselves to a mere statement of facts, or an enumeration of events. The very constitution of our minds compels us to make inferences from the facts we have observed : we cannot help thinking,—and to think is to theorise. This we at once recognise as the starting-place of all the speculative views, and all the visionary opinions which the history of medicine records; and, unhappily, they are but too numerous; some of them evidently flow from the disposition so constantly manifested to