27 masses of matter that belong to the Mineral Kingdom. When we prosecute this inquiry with the attention it deserves, when we com- pare the external forms and internal structure, which mark tne differ- ent groups of objects, included within the boundaries of the three great divisions of nature's wide domain, we shall find them strikingly contrasted in almost every particular. A mineral production, for instance a crystal, consists of particles of the same kind of matter, united by affinity or elective attraction. Its form is fixed, so is its composition and specific gravity ; and it can be increased only by deposits laid on its external surface. Its form depends altogether on the arrangement of its components ; consequently, it may be altered by the influence of various circum- stances. Hence arise the great number of different, though still regular, forms presented by crystals of the same substance. For instance, carbonate of lime is found, at one time, in the rhomboid form, at another, as a hexaedral prism, or of a dodecaedron. A crystal presents several sides, [plate 2, fig. 1,] bounded by right lines, meeting so as to form angles of various sizes, and by a little care it may be mechanically divided into layers, parallel with one another, and with some of the lines which bound its surface. The formation of crystals is altogether owing to the deposition of particles of matter, arranged according to the fixed laws which regulate che- mical attraction. And, when a crystal is once formed, it is quite impossible that any additional particles of the same sort can insinuate themselves between those of the mass previously existing. In order that they should do so, they must be acted on by a force greater than that connecting the particles of the crystal, which cannot be the case, as the power that acts on all is one and the same, viz. attraction. But, if a substance possessing a stronger attraction for one of the constituents of the crystal than they have for one another, be made to act upon them, they are separated and dissolved, and the crystal- line form is lost. We may then consider them as homogeneous bo- dies in the strictest sense of the word, the specific gravity of their constituent parts being constant and determinate. When we pass to the examination of organized bodies, we find,