29 whole is first sketched, and then their completion is effected by suc- cessive depositions, taking place from circumference to centre; hence the process of growth is really eccentric, or the very reverse of what would happen, were their components aggregated by attraction. This result is the fruit of modern research, it has been deduced from an extended and cautious inquiry, and established by a full and com- plete induction. In the early periods of feetal existence, as soon as the different textures are distinguishable, each organ and part of the body is in the first instauce double, its parts being placed laterally with regard to one another; but, as the process of nutrition goes on, they gradually approach and unite, so as to form organs usually termed single, from the circumstance of their having been examined only after their growth has been completed. The process of ossifi- cation, for instance, proceeds from the circumference towards the centre. Thus the lateral parts of the cranial bones are formed first, [fig. 5, 6, 7.] And their extension proceeds from the sides, begin- ning at the prominent points of the parietal and frontal bones, and thence extends to the central line. Each vertebra of the spinal column, and therefore the whole pillar itself, even including the sacrum, is open along its entire length, [fig. 7,] and appears as if composed of two parts, which finally become soldered together along the median line. The principle of eccentric developement obtains in the muscular system also, the lateral parts being produced before those at the middle line of the body. On the head, the temporal, masseter, and pterygoid muscles, are the first that can be recognized; the zigomatici, the buccinator, and orbiculares, come next in order; and lastly, those of the nose. On the thorax, the intercostals pre- cede the muscles situated in the costo-spinal fossae, as well as those attached to the sternum ; and in the abdominal region, the obliqui are formed in the first instance, the recti and pyramidales, situated along the middle line, subsequently. The abdomen, in fact, in the early periods of foetal life, presents an open cavity, the viscera being quite uncovered, [fig. 8,] but in proportion as the muscles extend inwards from the sides to the central line, the opening becomes gradually diminished, and the organs enclosed, so that at birth no in- terval remains, except that which transmits the umbilical vessels.