12 depends: and the Moralist seeks to conceive an intellect fitted to animate such a form; each, without concert with the others, adopts the same mental process, viz. Abstraction, and all attain the desired result. These [views are not of a merely speculative character; if they were I would not present them to you in this place; they are the views, (I mean so far as relates to the unity of Organic Elements,) which appear to have been present to the mind of Cnvier whilst he was engaged in his inquiries into the Fossil Remains of animals which have been discovered in different places. It was by acting on such views that this eminent Naturalist was enabled to determine the genus and species of an animal by possessing only a few fragments or pieces of its skeleton, and thence to assign its conformation, natural habits, and abode, with almost as much precision as if it were living, and could be made the subject of actual observation. You will doubtless ask, what is the train of inference which leads to such results? I shall state it as nearly as I can remember in Cuvier's own words, as given in the prefatory discourse to his great work on Fossil Remains. When we carefully examine the forms and structure of the different natural families of animals, and of their several subdivi- sions, we trace such a correspondence between the parts of those nearly allied, and such a dissimilarity between these and all others, that we can rigorously determine any of them by almost any fragment of it. For, in point of fact, we find that every organized individual forms an entire system of its own: all its parts mutually correspond, and concur to produce a certain definite purpose by reciprocal reaction, or by combining to the same end. Hence it is that none of these parts can change its form without inducing a corresponding change in the other parts of the same animal, so that each part taken singly indicates all the rest to which it belonged. If the viscera of an animal are so formed as to fit it for digesting raw animal food, the jaws will be found so constructed as to fit them for devouring their prey, the claws for seizing and tearing, the teeth for cutting and dividing, the limbs for pursuing and taking, the organs of sense for seeing at a distance, and the brain is endowed with instincts for concealing and lying in wait.