34 of a separation of old particles, and a corresponding deposition of new ones in their stead. Here are three small skeletons of different sizes, A, B, C, [fig. 5. 6. 7.] let us suppose them to represent different ages of the same individual. The particles of which A is composed, are removed and replaced by others, by the time the individual has attained the age of B, and the components of B are in their turn sup- planted by those which make it up when it reaches the condition of C. Now, if body be merely a compound, made up of particles in constant flux, how can such an aggregate possess a consciousness of personal identity ? Those who advocate this hypothesis, doubtless conceive that the particles A, as they leave their position, transfer their consciousness to B, and B again to C; so that Ibis individual, when he casts a retrospect over his past life, and surveys the conti- nuity of his own existence, (imagining himself to be one and the same sentient and thinking being,) at the second stage, is B, so far as his composition is concerned, but in feeling, idea, and conscious- ness is A ; and in^ the third stage, though really C, he still is not C, but A ; or in other words, he is not himself, but a different per- son ; or he is different, yet the same, at the same moment of time. This dilemma cannot be evaded by any one who contends that nothing exists but matter and motion, and that all the phenomena which we witness " arise through external movements, modifying the internal powers of attraction.'' The personal I is confessed a permanently being; every individual acts as if he were one and identical; and such he is invariably consi- dered by others, notwithstanding the admitted fact, that the material components of bis body are subject to a perpetual mutation; for, over this ceaseless cycle of change presides that power, which alto- gether suspends the ordinary play of affinities in the first moments of foetal existence, modifies and controls them during the succeeding stages of life, and allows them to come into action, only when it is withdrawn at death. " I bad rather," says Bacon, " believe all the fables of the Legend, the Talmud, and the Koran, than that this universal frame is without a mind. When the mind of man looketh to second causes scattered, it may sometimes rest on them, and go no farther; but when it beholdeth the chain of them confederate and