11 their intimate structure and composition. Then it is that we readily see the analogies by which they are associated, and trace the unity of design which runs through the whole scheme. Your attention has doubtless been, at some time or other, directed to a consideration of what is termed the "ideal form" in the Human figure. It was at one time supposed, that in order to get an idea of such a form, so as to be able to picture to his own mind that outline, which he first modelled and then sculptured into this statue—theVenus de Medicis, or rather the original from which it was taken, the Artist was obliged to select the detached beauties observed in different indi- vidual figures, and then combine them, so as to form out of them a well . proportioned whole. Were such a process followed, there could be neither unity nor symmetry in the result; it would certainly be an incon- gruous jumble of parts, without proportion or harmony. The process which is really adopted, is as nearly as may be the reverse of this. It is not by combining the detached excellencies of individual forms that the desired result is obtained; it is by passing in review a great number of individual instances, omitting the peculiarities distinctive of each, but at the same time retaining the substratum in which these peculiarities adhere. The outline, or model, obtained by this mental process, is an abstract representation of the race; or, at all events, of the individuals inspected, but it is divested of all those slighter traits on which their individuality depends: hence it is called, the abstract or ideal form, the "beau ideal.". We may extend the application of this process: we may note the intellectual qualities which distinguish individuals, omitting the peculiarities or defects of each, but retaining the substratum of good traceable in all, and so ascend to the con- templation of a mind, a spirit, an intellect, fitted to give life and animation to such a form. Thus, in different departments of science a defined end is sought, and the same mental process is adopted in each, — it succeeds in all, which is adequate evidence of its correctness and sufficiency : the Zoologist seeks to form a conception of the model from which the different varieties of animal forms are deduced:—'the Artist endeavours to picture to himself the outline of a form which may serve as a representation of the race, and which, as such, must be divested of all the peculiarities on which individuality