20 regions, or compartments, each requiring a special degree of attention, inasmuch as it may become the seat of a disease, or the subject of an accident requiring an operation for its cure. Anatomy, studied in this way becomes a sort of topography, as it includes a consideration of the extent and boundaries of each region, the lines and ridges which intersect it, and serve as so many landmarks to guide the steps of those who explore it. But attention is not to be confined to the surface of things, the anatomist dips beneath it, and scrutinises the form, size, aud structure, of the different lamellae that lie layer after layer, one upon another, and fill up the interval between the skin and the solid substratum—the bone. Each part is thus seen in its natural position, and every circumstance is taken into account which can influence the choice of one operation rather than another, as well as the method of executing every step of the operation which is selected. In this department of our course I have hitherto co- operated with my respected friend, Mr. Tyrrell; in the study of it, it has been my good fortune to enjoy the advantage of his advice and precepts, the importance of which I sensibly feel, and the value of which you can fully appreciate. If any thing can add to the value of precepts, founded on long and varied experience, as well as on a minute acquaintance with every thing that relates to the principles and practice of surgery, it is that they are always communicated freely and without reserve, and conveyed in language at once clear and perspicuous. I have always looked to our friendship and acquaintance with unmixed satisfaction; they never for a moment admitted of di- minution or interruption, and now, when he confines himself to the department of Surgery, aud resigns this of Anatomy to me, I can look forward with confidence to a continuance of the same mutual friendly feeling in public, as well as in private. Speaking of my senior friend and colleague, I have to allude to him who is junior, Mr. Evans. Our acquaintance commenced in this place, that acquaintance soon ripened into friendship, and that friend- ship is now cemented by our association as colleagues. It has always been to me a source of pleasure to observe the steadiness of his application in the pursuit of professional knowledge, and advancement in professional reputation. I confidently hope that amongst those