38 the adjustment of the moving surfaces to one another, or the com- pleteness, and at the same time simplicity, of the provisions to retain them in their proper position hy checks and ligaments. The surfaces present an exquisite smoothness and polish, yet are not injured by friction; they are delicate to a degree, yet require no pro- vision against attrition, I mean human provision, and any that could be devised would be injurious. Still, delicate as these surfaces are, they endure for half a century or more, and are kept in perfect repair by their own inherent powers. Yet there are persons who would contend that all this is effected by masses of matter, formed by attraction; there are some who would deny that such a structure as this is the result of design or intelligence ! who assert that the form and adaptation of these different bony substances is determined by the aggregation of particles acted on by mere attraction ! Will attraction also account for the form of the ligaments which bind them,—of the muscles which move them,—of the ^Vessels which supply the ma- terials of growth, and the nerves that impart their special suscepti- bilities of impression ? But suppose that attraction did determine, in the first instance, the arrangement of the particles of which the living body is composed, can we conceive that it is the same attraction which determines the removal of old or effete parts, during the process of growth or reparation, as well as all the other changes that are cease- lessly going on in the system ? During the process of growth some particles are being continually taken up, say from this bone, and others laid down in their place. Now, those that remain,—those removed,—and those deposited in their stead, all consist of phosphate of lime. If such changes as these necessarily followed from the ope- ration of the ordinary laws of matter, we should be constrained to admit that particles of the same identical substance, in the same place, and in exactly the same circumstances, can, at the same mo- ment of time, be mutually attracted and repelled, and that this state of things could exist during life without producing either confusion or derangement. I shall now direct your attention to one topic more; I select it, be- cause it forms an era in the annals of medicine, and is connected with the history of a man whose name has shed a lustre on the pro-