5 science, but for the universal diffusion of knowledge amongst all classes and orders of men, from the highest to the lowest. The plan adopted for this purpose seems well calculated to attain the end proposed. It consists, for the most part, in publishing in separate parts, from week lo week, small treatises on different departments of useful knowledge, sketches of history and biography, together with condensed views of the most instructive portions of Natural Science. These are written in such a wav, as to convey clear ideas of the sub- jects of which they treat; but their chief effect must be to infuse a spirit for further inquiry, and create a taste for scientific pursuits. Amongst these little works we find some which bear immediate reference to our present purpose. Here are two which treat of Anatomy: their object is to convey to the general reader an idea of the various mechanical contrivances which are found in the structure of the human body,—to point out the provisions devised for its security, and the evidences of design and of forethought traceable in different parts of its conformation. They are headed/ 'Animal Mechanics." In the perusal of them you will at once observe the workings of an acute and discerning mind, and perhaps recognize some of the peculiar views of a celebrated Anatomist to whom they are generally attributed. The others are entitled, "Animal Physiology;" they are four in number, and have been written by a learned and accomplished Physician. They are marked throughout by clearness and precision of style, and an intimate acquaintance with the subject. When productions such as these circulate widely amongst the community,—when men of all classes become acquainted with the subjects of which they treat, does it not behove you, who, in the discharge of your professional duties, must necessarily come into contact with persons thus instructed in what hitherto was considered as your own special province, to he able to show them not merely that you are not ignorant of them, but that you are intimately acquainted with th em r The rank which is conceded to you in society is not supported by prescription or by privilege, it depends on public opinion, and can be sustained only by acquirement and knowledge; if, on examination, you be found deficient in these, no matter to