37 some being altogether cartilaginous, which renders them flexible ant! elastic, and at the same time light and buoyant. In that of birds there is a special provision, by which firmness and lightness are at once secured. Their long bones form hollow cylinders, filled with air, conveyed into them from the respiratory passages, the purpose of which is sufficiently obvious. The shell of the bone is particularly close and compact in its structure, and as the diameter of the shaft is increased by its forming a hollow cylinder, a double provision is established for strength and firmness. A very different conformation obtains in some slow-moving animals, such as the land Tortoise, their bones being heavy and solid, so much so that they do not contain even a medullary cavity. The Eye, in birds, is secured from the ef- forts of their rapid passage through the air, and from exposure to in- tense light in high regions of the atmosphere, by a curious provision. There is a membrane, which, at the will of the animal, can be drawn like a film over the eye-ball. It is. thin, translucent, and elastic as Indian rubber, so that it retracts of itself as soon as the muscular effort ceases, which draws it over the eye, and retreats to the inner angle, where it is altogether removed from the field of vision. The Head in man rests on the summit of the spine, where it is supported like the capital on the top of a column, and so nearly equi- poised, that but little muscular effort is required to keep the line of its base horizontal, and that of the face vertical, which is its natural position. In quadrupeds the spine being horizontal, the head is ap- pended to its anterior extremity, and therefore would require a con- siderable effort to sustain it, which would be tiresome, if not painful, to the animal. To avoid this, a peculiar provision is given them, for the head is supported by an elastic band, stretched between the occi- put, and the spines of the vertebras ; so that the weight is sustained by a special contrivance, without any effort of the animal, or any exercise of the will. The movements of the Head on the Spine, are, as you are con- scious, various and complex, much more so than any human contri- vance could admit of, even than the universal joint invented by Mr. Hook. It admits of flexion, extension, rotation, sliding, and all the modifications of these. Nothing can be conceived more perfect than