36 to another, and their conformation enables them to fulfil their desti- nation. The bee and the wasp lay up stores for winter, and, strange to say, the comb which the bee builds is always placed vertically, that of the wasp, horizontally. Moreover, the cells are all constructed on strictly geometrical principles; for each of them is a hexagon, terminated by a pyramidal base. In the execution of their work they give a practical solution of a very difficult problem: "A quantity of wax being given to form out of it, similar and equal cells of a deter- minate capacity, but at the same time so arranged, collectively, as to occupy the smallest possible space, whilst each individual cell pos- sesses the largest possible area in proportion to the quantity of matter employed." If they were cylindrical, vacant spaces must exist be- tween each three contiguous cells; if they were square or triangular, they would require more material and be altogether unsuited to the form of the bee's body. Is it from instruction—is it from their senses—is it from experience, that these creatures execute their work with the precision and method of the most accomplished artists ? No one, I believe, would answer in the affirmative; each group of living things has its special aptitudes, its peculiar habits. Dente lupus, cornu taurus petit; unde nisi intus Monstratum ? Their habits and their aptitudes are stamped upon them at the first moment of their being, and constitute them so many agents fashioned for the execution of a purpose,—so many means devised for the attain- ment of an end; as such, every one of them bears upon it the impress of design and contrivance. Observe some of these groups attentively, note the peculiarities which characterise them, and then pass on to an investigation of their internal structure and conforma- tion, you will not fail to find abundant evidence of their perfect adaptation to their different spheres of action—their various modes of life. Some animals live and move in water, some on the earth, others in the air, and these are the especial conditions of their existence. The skeleton of fishes has less earthy matter than that of laud animals..