26 present day. Moreover, the figures of animals sculptured on obelisks, perfectly resemble, in their outline and general character, the corres- ponding species, such as we now find them. We can form a concep- tion of what a long time may produce, only by multiplying in idea what shorter periods actually have produced; in the instances just cited, we find no evidence of a change either in the conformation or structure of animals, within a period equal to two or three thousand years; we, therefore, have no grounds for admitting the existence of any changes in these particulars, within a period equal to any multi- ple of this that can be conceived. Considerable attention has been at different times paid to the natural history of that remarkable bird, the Ibis, to which the ancient Egyptians paid so much veneration. They considered it as a tute- lary guardian, commissioned by the gods to watch over their country, and prevent the increase or incursion of noxious reptiles, which, but for its interposition, would have brought desolation on the land. Hence it was reared in their temples, suffered to wander unmolested in their streets; it was honoured whilst living, and embalmed when dead. We appeal to it on the present occasion,—it removes any vestige of doubt that may remain on the mind. The Ibis of the present day is in every respect identical with that which existed in the time of the Pharoahs.* Hypotheses such as these could impose only on persons biassed by prepossession, or on the inexperienced, who may not be able to detect the errors of fact, as well as of inference, which run through them. As, however, you will frequently meet with such opinions in the writings of persons in other respects deserving consideration, it may serve a use- ful purpose to make you acquainted with them, and, at the same time, shew you that they are not tenable. In order to place the subject in a clear point of view before you, and to shew you that a rule cannot be transferred from masses of unorganized matter to organized and animated beings, it becomes necessary to consider the forms and characters which are peculiar to organized bodies, and which fully distinguish them from the * Cuvier's Essay on the Ibis.