44 they have wandered, and the failure of their methods of investigation points to the necessity of pursuing a different line of research from that which they adopted. Speculation and Hypothesis have reigned too long; it has been too much the practice of Physiologists to construct systems " from their own conceptions, and to draw from their own minds all the materials they employed." Whilst notoriety (perhaps even distinction) could be attained by such compendious methods, we cannot feel surprise at the number of hypotheses which the history of Medicine records, or at the fleeting credit they maintained. One heresy gave way to another, and a third succeeded as short lived as either of its predecessors. Truditur dies die Novaeque pergunt interire lunae. But, even at the present day, it is not a little difficult to repress speculation altogether, and to confine inquiry withiu its legitimate bounds: we must then bear with indulgence the observations of per- sons who lived in less enlightened times. During the progress of this Course of Lectures I shall have to notice the various opinions which have, from time to time, obtained credence on Physiological subjects, and the grounds of them ; but my principal object shall be to fix in your minds those facts which may be considered as established, and the opinions which are now adopted by the best informed persons. The labour of study will be thus abridged ; and your attention will be directed to proper objects of pur- suit, and to the best methods of prosecuting your inquiries still further, so that after removing to your various destinations in life, you may be enabled to resume the subject, and investigate it for yourselves, in the hope of discovering new facts, and extending the boundaries of know- ledge. If that, however, does not accord with the nature of your vo- cations, you can, with a moderate degree of attention to what is passing in the republic of letters, keep pace with the progress of such improvements as may from time to time take place in Physiological Science. J, and C. Adlard, Printers, Bartholomew close.