what adventitious aids you may trust—no matter to what expedients you may resort,—nothing can sustain you, in your present position, you must fall to a lower level, and sink in public estimation. You will naturally be prompted to enquire whether there is any thing in the study of Anatomy sufficiently attractive to awaken the at- tention or stimulate the curiosity of inquiring minds; you will find much at almost every step of your progress. The practical applications of Anatomy, its subserviency to Medicine and Surgery, are not now denied or questioned. I need not, therefore, on the present occasion, dwell on them; they will come before us from day to day. I shall call your attention to some general results and views of the subject, calcu- lated to show you what Anatomy is when treated as a science. Let us set out with something plain, or even common-place; then, taking it as a point of departure, pass on to subjects a little more comprehensive, or even recondite. Suppose, then, we take one of the most obvious parts of the hody, viz. the upper Extremity. Observation shows us how well adapted it is for its different purposes and uses, and how infinitely various these are. Let us contrast it with the lower extremity : placing them side by side, we see that the parts of which they are composed, I mean the anatomical elements of which they are made up, are analo- gous in every particular. Just take the basis, or substratum, which gives support to the other structures,—the osseous part: laying them thus together, (fig. 1, 2,) we see that they consist of the same number of pieces, viz. the Femur (a), and Humerus (a*), the two bones (c, d,) of the Leg, and those of the Fore-arm (c* d*), seven in the Tarsus (e) and Carpus (e*), five in the Meta-tarsal row (/), and that of the Meta-carpus (/*), and lastly those of the Toes (g), and of the Fingers (g*). TheFemur, strongly made, is, at its upper part, lodged in a deep cup-shaped socket, by means of which the whole weight of the body is thrown on the limb ; at its lower end it is ex- panded so as to increase the surface by which it rests on the leg. The bones of the Leg are also firm in themselves, and closely bound toge- ther so as to admit of no motion upon one another; they rest securely on the foot, the upper bone of which is lodged in a socket, which they form. The Humerus, on the contrary, is barely in contact with a super-