13 These arc the obvious characteristics of Carnivorous animals; they are the very conditions of their existence, and point at once to an appropriate internal structure and conformation. Thus, in order that the jaw should be well adapted for the prehension of objects, its condyle must have a peculiar form, the temporal muscle a certain size, the hollow in which it is lodged a certain depth, the zigoma a certain degree of convexity to allow it to pass beneath, and also a certain degree of strength to sustain the action of the masseter muscle: in other words, the moving power, the fulcrum, and the resistance, must be adjusted and proportioned, [fig. 10 g. Ii. i.] Again: the teeth, to be able to tear and cut, must be sharp, and of a certain form, their roots solid and strong, to gnaw bones; hence they determine the form and development of the jaw bone into which they are inserted. The paws are subsidiary to the jaws and teeth; they are formed for strength and mobility; and, consequently, present in their bony structure a determinate form, as well as a corresponding adjustment in their tendons and muscles. For instance, the fore-arm must move freely in different directions, and therefore requires a determinate form in its bones. The hones of the fore-arm articulate with the humerus, so that any change in the one must influence the form of the other. The scapula too assumes a particular form, as it must be strong to give a firm support to the limb in such animals, and their muscles acquire a development corresponding with that of the bones which they have to move and act on. [fig. 9 a. b. c. d. e-f.] "A similar adaptation of structure and arrangement must obtain in the posterior limbs as well as in the spine and trunk; the bones of the nose are developed largely, so are the orbits and ears, corresponding with the perfection of the senses in such animals. We see, then, that the structure of the teeth regulates the form of the claw, the humerus, and the scapula, so that either of these enables us to determine the teeth, and reciprocally the teeth indicate the others just as the equation of a curve regulates all its other properties: and as in regard to any par- ticular curve, all its properties may be ascertained by assuming each separate property as the foundation of a particular equation, in the same way a claw, a scapula, a leg, or an arm bone, enables us to