35 linked together, it must needs flee to Providence and lo Deity." How strangely then do those men argue, who contend that all the phenomena of living beings, and all the functions which they perform, are'results—the necessary results of their organization ; and that their structure is produced by an aggregation of particles, according to the laws of chemical attraction. We have seen, however, that such is not the rule of their formation ; so far from it, they are formed by a process the very reverse of this; which is a conclusive evidence that there is some other power at work, besides that of attraction. But, were we, for a moment, to admit that the form and structure of orga- nized bodies are determined by attraction, then we could have no grounds for expecting to fiud evidence of design or forethought in their conformation. This at once prompts us to enquire, (and surely it is an interesting subject of enquiry) whether they do not exhibit incontestable evidences of both, in whatever point of view we ex- amine their habits and capabilities, or investigate their structure. It is a favorite opinion with many that all our knowledge is derived from the senses; as well might it be said that all'arts and manufactures are derived from the doors and windows of the houses, into which the raw materials are brought to be subjected to the skill and dexterity of the workmen. Again, as our senses exist before we have acquired any experience, we have sufficient grounds for questioning another assertion, which is frequently put forth, namely, that all knowledge comes from experience. There is a sort of knowledge which is prior to experience, and acts quicker than reason, and which exhibits itself for the most part in prompting measures for self preservation. Thus young animals seek the breast from which their nutriment is derived ; and,in after-life, the different tribes of living beings select different sorts of substances for their food : some feed on herbs, and every part of their conformation marks them to be fitted and intended for digesting that kind of food \ Others live on animal substances, and as we saw yes- terday, when examining the structure of carnivorous animals, the con- formation of their teeth, jaws, stomach, limbs, adapt them for the ha- bits that have been impressed on them. Some become torpid during winter, and choose places of security whilst in that state; others, as . the swallow, enjoy a perpetual summer, by migrating from one country