30 The nervous system, in its developement, obeys the same law; the nerves on the sides of the head, trunk, and pelvis, are formed independently of the brain and spinal marrow, and their cords and filaments may be distinctly traced, so that the nerves may be said to begin where they have been hitherto thoughtto terminate, and vice versa. The spinal chord, when just distinguishable, consist of two lamella?, or bands, separated by a slight interval; these soon unite in front, so as to form a groove, and finally at the opposite point, constituting a cylindrical tube, which is gradually filled up by a series of lamellae deposited one within the other, until it is converted into a solid mass of a cylindrical form. The lateral masses of the brain when first de- posited are quite distinct from one another, but, as the process of growth extends towards the median line, the corpus callosum, and the other commissures, are produced, which establish a connexion between them, and when the union is completed, its line of direction is indicated by the raphe, preceptible along the upper surfaceof the corpus callosum, and which is found to extend quite through its substance.* A knowledge of these laws has thrown considerable light on one of the most obscure subjects connected with the animal economy, viz. the occasional formation of those bizarre productions called Monsters. They have been regarded hitherto as "lusus naturae," as if they had been formed by a total subversion of nature's laws, and admitted of no explanation on rational principles. In ancient times, when man was believed to be influenced and con- trolled by invisible spirits, Monsters were supposed to be produced by supernatural agency. Whenever a deformed infant was born, even in the most civilized places, such as Rome or Athens, the in- habitants of these cities, so justly proud of their intellectual superi- ority, assembled in their temples to endeavour to appease the anger of the gods. But, though in process of time, reason got the better of these superstitious notions, it only shook off one error to light on another. At no very remote period the birth of a monster was look- ed on as a public calamity—a presage of a war, or a famine; and, even more near to our own times, these deformities were considered as altogether beyond the reach of our scrutiny. A conviction such as * Elements of Anatomy, p. 23, 85.