724 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. The jejuno-ilenm begins with a diameter of nearly an inch and a half, with closely set villi, long, deep, and numerous valvulse couniventes, and a fairly thick muscular coat; it ends with a cross-measurement of hardly an inch, with scanty villosities, no connivent valves, and a thinner musculature. In a single direction only has it made a gain—the addition of the aggregated /ymph-nofhilefi, otherwise called the agminated glands and the 2^atches of Peyer {Yig. 778). These Fig. 778,—Aggregiitcd lyniiili-nudule dvyur s patch). (Tcstut.) are local accumulations of bodies in all essential respects like the solitary lymph- nodules, which are scattered throughout the length of the small intestine—they are colonies of lymph-nodules. They produce scarcely any elevation of the sur- face, but are not crossed by connivent valves; they are always situated at the free border of the tube, with their greater diameter lengthwise of it; are rarely found in the ujjper half, and become larger and more numerous as the large intes- tine is aj)proached ; vary in size from a half inch in both directions to a width of about an inch and a length of ten inches, or possibly more ; are thirty or more in number on the avei'age ; and tend to disappear gradually after middle life, so that in old people they may be recognizal)le only as ai'eas of discoloration. They are the seat of the lesion in enteric (typhoid) fever. The blood-supply of the jejinio-ileum is derived from the superior mesenteric artery, whose branches course between the two layers of the mesentery, are dis- tributed beneath the serous coat, anastomose on the free border, and perforate the muscular layers, forming a rich plexus in the areolar tunic, from which the mucous and muscular are furnished with their supply of artei-ioles and capillaries. The iJeins correspond. Ordinary hjmphaiics, originating in the other parts, are joined by those from the villi (lacteals), and leave by way of the mesentery to empty into the receptaculum. The nerves come from the superior mesenteric plexus, accompany the vessels, and form one network between the layers of the muscular tunic, another in the areolar. Their exact terminations are not understood. The duodenum gets a part of its arterial blood from the superior mesenteric, and the rest through branches of the hepatic. THE LARGE INTESTINE. The largeness which gives a name to the next grand division of the alimen- tary canal is in its transverse, not in its longitudinal, diameter; for it is hardly more than a quarter as long as the small intestine, but is much wider, being two and a half inches across in its broadest part. The large intestine {intedinum crasswm) (Fig. 779) is divided for description into three parts—Cfecum, colon, and rectum—and has so little mobility that the