THE LARYNX. 771 external surface of the arytenoid to the lateral border of the epiglottic cartilage runs the arytcno-epif/Iottic ligament, in which is usually found a small, yellow fibro-cartilage, called the cuneifann caHUagc. All of these ligaments are in symmetrical pairs, except the middle crico- thyroid and the thyro-epiglottic, which are single and median, with bilateral synmietry. Besides these ligaments, which are called " intrinsic " from their forming a part of the larynx, there are others which connect it with the hyoid bone above and the trachea below, and are named " extrinsic " on account of their situation outside of the larynx (Fig. 833). The connection between the larynx and trachea is almost precisely like that between neighboring cartilages of the latter. From the anterior notch of the thyroid to the body of the hyoid extends the somewhat clastic middle thyro-Jii/oid ligament; and from the upper edges of the alse and front margins of the superior horns of the thyroid to the lower borders of the great cornua of the hyoid stretch the very elastic lateral thyro-hyoid ligaments, each perforated by the superior laryngeal vessels, and having in its hind edge a little bit of cartilage, the corpus triticeum (" wheat-like body "). The Muscles of the Larynx. The muscles of the larynx, like its ligaments, are divided into two groups— the extrinsic, which are outside of, but act upon, it; and the intrinsic, which are attached at both ends to parts of the larynx, and move these parts upon each other. The former are the sterno-thyroideus, thyro-hyoideus, stylo-pharyngeus, palato-pharyngeus, and constrictor inferior pharyngis, and are described in other places. The intrinsic are the following: Crico-thyroideus, crico-arytenoideus posterior, crico-arytenoideus lateralis, thyro-arytenoideus, thyro-epiglottideus, aryteno-epiglottideus, arytenoideus. All of these muscles are in symmetrical pairs, except the last, which is single, but bilaterally symmetrical. Their names are a guide to their situation, and sug'P-estive of their action. Thev are members of the rather small class of muscles whose names are almost invariably Anglicized among English- speaking people, generally by the elimi- nation of the terminal euf<, and, in the case of the third, of the last two let- ters of lateralis also. They are so plainly exhibited in the figures that elaborate description is unnecessary. Normally, they always act in pairs, and their action affects two things—the width of the aperture of the glottis, and the tension of the true vocal cords. The crico-thyroid muscle (Fig. 837) arises from the lower border of the ala of the thyroid and the front edge of its lower horn,C()nvergesdownwardand for- ward, and is inserted into the fnmt and side of the cricoid. The thyroid being fixed, the anterior ]iart of the pair of fig. 837.—muscUs of inrynx, front view. The muscles lifts the front of the cricoid ^^^^"ed^'lTeitut?'' th>-"'-">-o>'i '-^^'^ ^^^n upward, and the ]iortion of the cricoid behind the crico-thyroid articulation is, consequently, tilted downward, and, as this carries the arytenoids with it, the true vocal cords are tightened. The hind STERNO- THYROIDEUS