THE REGION OF THE THIRD VENTRICLE. 533 Along the mesial surface from tlie porta to the aqueduct is a groove, the sulcus of Monro (usually but faintly marked), indicating the line of junction of the dorsal and ventral zones, into which morphologists divide the encephalon. The upper surface is divided into a postero-internal portion and an antcro- external portion by an oblique groove. Upon the former of these areas lies the velum interpositum, whose free edge, the choroid jilexus of the lateral ventricle, rests upon the latter area. A portion of this surface beyond the plexus is often, perhaps usually, seen in the floor of the lateral ventricle, separated from the caudate nucleus by the tsenia semicircularis. In the diagrams (Figs. 549 and 552), which represented the first and second vesicles developing separately, the thalamus manifestly could have no place in the lateral ventricle; and it is held by Wilder that it is always absolutely excluded from this cavity. At the extreme front of this surface is a I'ounded end, the anterior tubercle. Behind at the inner side of the thalamus is another tubercle, the pidvinar ("couch"), which extends downward, and occupies the posterior surface. At the lower and outer portion of the posterior surface are the two corpora geniculata (" the bended-knee bodies"), internal and external (Fig. 597), connected behind with the corjiora quadrigeaiina by the pjosterior and anterior brachia, and in front continued into the optic tract. The outer surface and anterior end are closely related to the internal capsule, into which they send many fibres. The under surface rests upon a forward extension of the tegmentum. THIRD UENTRICUE Fig. 589.—Cornnal section through the lateral and third ventricles, showing the velum interpositum push- ing the choroid plexuses (C. P.) into the lateral ventricles above the thalami. (Semidiagrammatic.) (Testut.) The great bulk of the thalamus is gray substance, which is divided into outer and inner nuclei by a thin, curved, white layer. The two thalami are connected by a grav 1)and, the middle (soft) covmiissure, which crosses the third ventricle nearly at its centre. They are also united by the floor of the ventricle. The roof (){ the third ventricle is formed by the velum interpjositum (Fig. 589), which has already been described. The endyma lining the ventricular cavity is reflected from the thalami onto the under surface of the velum along the lines marked by the peduncles of the e]Mphysis (pineal body). From the under sur- face of the velum hang the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle, covered, of course, by the endyma. Authors differ widely concerning the extent of the floor of the third ventricle. Some include every ])art of the walls excepting the sides and roof, thus making the floor embrace all of the parts on or near tlie middle line below the plane of the stalks of the e]>iphvsis (pineal peduncles), which indicate the upjiermost latei\al boun- daries. Others apply the name " floor" only to the structures extending from the location of the optic chiasma back to tlie ojiening of the aqueduct, considering all from the chiasma to the junction of the pineal peduncle with the fornix as