THE HIP-JOINT. 231 the level of the lower part of the small trochanter below ; behind and below, to the neck, one-half to two-thirds of an inch internal to the posterior intertro- chanteric line ; and above, at the base of the gi'eat trochanter, internal to the digital fossa. The innermost capsular fibres are reflected upon the neck of the femur toward the articular margin, blending with the periosteum and forming three flat hands or relinacula, one behind and one at either end of the anterior intertrochanteric line. The capsule is somewhat loose, and its fibres run longitu- dinally with some circular fibres interwoven. The circular fibres are found most abundantly behind and below, where they form a band arching around the neck of tlie femur. The longitudinal fibres are much thickened in parts by accessory bands, inseparable from the cajisule, which greatly strengthen the jf)int. Many of these bands are derived from the fascial sheaths of the surrounding muscles, which are—in front, the ilio-psoas, partly separated from the capsule by a bursa ; internally, the pectineus; below and behind, the oliturator externus ; behind, the Fig. 24'j.—Hip-joint in coronal section. (Testut.) obturator internus with the two gemelli and the pyriformis ; above or externally, the rectus femoris and the gluteus minimus. The obturator internus acts like a powerful strap at the back of the joint. Of the three principal accessory bands, the iUo-femoral band is the strongest and most important. Superiorly attached to the ilium, below and behind the anterior inferior spine, it spreads out triangularly to the anterior intertrochanteric Hue of the femur. Its inner and outer borders form two very strong bands, between which the capsule is thinner, so as sometimes to suggest the name of the inverted Y-ligament given it by Bigelow. This ligament is rarely torn, and forms the fulcrum for the manipulation in reducing dislocations of the thigh. The outer or upper part of tliis band, passing to the upper end of the anterior border of the great trochanter, is sometimes described as the ilio-trochanferic ligament. The pubo-femorcd band, is the weakest, and passes from between tlie pectineal eminence and the cotyloid notch to the neck of the femur, above and behind the