THE OCCIPITAL BONE. 165 THE BONES OF THE CRANIUM. THE OCCIPITAL BONE. Tliis lozenge-shaped bone (i igs. 185 and 186) forms the back and a part of the base of the skull. Its long diameter is directed from behind downward and forward. It consists of four parts, which meet around the foramen magnum. These parts are distinct at birth, and are represented by separate bones in lower vertebrates. Of these parts, the broad, flat, curved portion behind the foramen magnum, called the squamo-occip'dal, consists of two parts. The upper triangu- lar segment lying above the highest curved line represents the interparietal bone of lower vertebrates, and is sometimes separate in man. The two exoccipitah or condylar portions lie one on either side of the foramen magnum, and include the Fig. 185.—The occipital bnne, viewed from below. (Spalteholz.) condyles and jugular processes. Tliey join the squamo-occipital behind and the basi-occipital or basilar process in front. The latter extends forward from the foramen to the sphenoid line. The entire bone is flattened and much curved, and presents a concave cerebral surface and a convex external surface. The external surface is convex, and looks downward and backward behind, downward and forward in front. It presents behind, about the centre of the squamous portion, a well-marked prominence, the external occipital protuberance— an important landmark to be felt through the scalp. From this a median ridge, the external occipital crest, leads to the back of the foramen magnum. The pro- tuberance and crest give attachment to the ligamentum nuchte. A transverse ridge extends laterally on each side from the external occipital jirotuberance called the superior curved line (or middle nuchal line). It arches outward toward the lateral angle, and attaches the trapezius internally, and parts of the occipitalis, sterno-cleido-mastoid, and splenius capitis externally. Above this line is some- times to be seen a fainter ridge, the highest curved line (linea suprema or superior nuchal line). This is more curved, most marked mesially, and extends laterally toward the lateral angle, enclosing with the superior curved line a smooth, dense, semilunar area. It is often absent, but when present attaches the epicranial aponeurosis and a few fibres of the occipitalis. The surface above this line is evenly convex. The rough surface between the superior curved line and the foramen magnum is divided into two rough areas on each side bv the inferior curved (or nuchal) line, which curves outward and then downward from near the middle of the crest to the jugular process. The space above the inferior line receives the complexus mesially. The lower space is occupied bv the recti capitis