477 THE VEINS. The External Iliac Vein (Fig. 506). This is the continuation of the femoral vein, and extends from the level of the inguinal (Poupart's) ligament to the sacro-iliac articulation, wliere it joins the internal iliac vein. While it is internal to the artery on Ijoth sides below, on the I LIO- LUMBAR ' ] LATERAL .•{1 ' SACRAL CIRCUMFLEX SUPERIOR VESICAL EPIGASTRIC OBTURATOR INFERIOR VESICAL SCIATIC INTERNAL PUDIC MIDDLE SACRAL INTERNAL PUDIC Fig. 5(J6.—External iliac vein of right side. (Testut.) right side above it inclines behind it. It contains one or two valves, and just above the ingninal ligament it receives the deep epigastric and the deep circumflex ihac veins, which accompany the corresponding arteries. A pubic vein, cor- responding to the pubic branch of the obturator artery, ascends from the obturator vein to join the external iliac vein, and sometimes forms the main outlet of the obturator vein. ( The Portal System of Veins (Fig. 507). These are distinguished from other veins 1)V beginning and ending in capil- hiries. The portal vein coHects the blood from the chylopoietic viscera (the stomacli, intestines, and pancreas), as well as from the spleen and the gall-bladder, and conveys it to the liver, to the capillaries of which it is distributed to be collected, together with the blood from the he])atic artery, by the hepatic veins, and so carried to the vena cava. The veins of this system have no valves. The Portal Vein {vena jjortai) (Fig. 508) is formed by the union of the splenic and the superior mesenteric veins, behind the upper end of the head of the pancreas, in front of the vena cava, and opposite the right side of the body of the first lumbar vertebra. From this point it runs upward and somewhat to the right for about three inches, to near the right end of the transverse fissure of the liver. Here it is somewhat enlarged (sinm of the portal vein), and divides into right and left branches, which enter their respective lobes and divide into