THE UMBILICAL CORD AND THE PLACENTA. 83 canals are blood-vessels ; the fluid which they contain becomes the plasma of the blood ; the outermost cells of the original cords flatten and produce a thin wall for the vessels, while the more central cells group themselves into masses, which project here and there into the interior of the vessels from their walls, and are termed the blood-islands. An abundant network of blood-vessels traversing the area opaca is thus formed, the intei'vals of the network being occupied by masses of unspecialized cells, which are termed substance-islands, and later give rise to embryonic connective tissue. Toward the periphery of the area opaca a circular blood-vessel, known as the sinus terminalis, is formed, marking the extreme periph- ery of the vascular region ; and, though the area opaca may extend beyond this, the blood-vessels do not, and it is thus possible to divide the area opaca into a more central area vasculosa and a more peripheral area opaca proper. The forma- tion of blood-vessels begins a little later in the area pellucida, and thence they grow in toward the body of the embryo. The Umbilical Cord and the Placenta. The embryo at this stage is represented by a thickening occupying the median portion of the embryonic shield. The anterior end of the thickening now begins to sink down into the interior of the vesicle, a process which is continued until finally only the posterior extremity of the embryo remains at the surface (Fig. 96, A). The embryo thus comes to occupy the floor of a depression, which, relatively deep in front, becomes shallower posteriorly, and is surrounded by a well-marked lip or fold, consisting of ectoderm and somatic mesoderm, and known as the amniotic fold. By this time the mesodermal layers, as well as the endoderm, in their extension over the inner surface of the blastodermic vesicle, have reached its lower pole, where they fuse together, and, the coelomic cavities extending j^^ri passu with the mesoderm, the extra-embryonic portion of the vesicle becomes throughout its entire extent double-walled, the outer wall being composed of the original wall of the vesicle (which may be regarded as ectoderm) plus the somatic layer of the mesoderm ; while the inner wall is composed of splanchnic mesoderm plus endoderm. These two walls are separated by the coelomic cavity, Avhich becomes relatively voluminous, the inner wall, enclosing a cavity known as the umbilical vesicle (Fig. 96) or yolk-sac, being separated by a considei'able interspace from the outer wall, which is now termed the chorion. While these changes hav^e been taking place the embryo has begun to constrict itself from the embryonic shield by a tucking in, as it were, of the wall of the embryonic vesicle in front and at the sides vmder the body of the embryo. The anterior portion of the embryo thus becomes cylindrical and completely shut off from the yolk-sac, which, as the result of the constriction, becomes converted into a pyriform vesicle connected with the intestine of the embryo by a narrow stalk. The constriction, continuing to develop from before backward, finally reaches the posterior end of the body, where it wraps itself around the connection of the embryo with the surface of the embryonic vesicle, converting this connection into a stalk known as the belly-stcdk or Bauckstiel. In its passage backward the con- striction carries with it the yolk-sac, which thus becomes enclosed within the belly-stalk, as does also a small evagination of the ventral wall of the intestine of the embryo, situated behind the attachment of the stalk of the yolk-sac, and known as the allantois, a rudiment of a structure of considerable size in some of the lower mammalia and in the birds and reptiles, where it functions as an embryonic respiratory organ. In the subsequent development the belly-stalk elongates greatly, its cavity, which is continuous with the coelom of the embryo, becoming filled by a peculiar mesodermal, jelly-like connective tissue, the Wharton- ian jelly, in which are imbedded the rudimentaiy allantois, the umbilical vesicle, and certain blood-vessels, the whole forming what is termed the umbilical cord, the outer end of which comes into intimate relation with the walls of the uterus, forming the placenta (Fig. 96, B).