520 THE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. is a plate, which extends laterally into the temporal lobe, and is named the tapetum (" mat"). On the upper free surface of the callosum some small bundles of fibres run lengthwise, and from this fact are called striai longitudinalcs (" longitudinal stripes"). They are in two sets on each side : a median, which lies close to the central depression ; and a lateral, which is lodged in the callosal fissure, and is named tenia tecta (" the concealed band "), from its being covered up by the cal- losal gyrus. These bundles diverge in i^ront along the inner boundarv of the anterior perforated spaces, constituting the peduncles of the callosum, and are lost in the beginning of the Sylvian fissures. Behind they are traced into the back part of the hippocampal gyri. The fore-and-aft median measurement of the callosum is about five inches; its depth behind is nearly an inch, in front a little less. Fig. 570.—Diagram showing associatiuu-tlbres of the hemisphere. (Testut.) The callosum forms the roof of the lateral ventricles, the tapetum covering in the posterior and middle horns. As the fibres of the callosum radiate to the cortex of the hemisphere, they interlace with those of the great columns ascending from the lower levels of the encephalon, and the two sets together constitute the chief bulk of the white sub- stance of the cerebrum. But there are also unnumbered bundles of fibres which connect near or remote gyri, as shown in Fig. 570. They are called association fibres. The Fornix (Figs. 571, 568, 572). In the median section of the encephalon there is seen below the callosum and attached to the back part of its lower surface a white body, which curves forward and downward, then downward, and then downward and backward to the under surface of the brain, where it seems to double upon itself in a tight loop, and then to course upward, backward, and a little outward to the thalamus, in which it is lost. This is a part of the /ora/,r ("arch"), the remainder requiring another dissection for its exhibition. The callosum and all the structures above it having been removed, we can look down upon the floor of the lateral ventricles, and thus obtain a view of the upper surface of the fornix. It is now perceived to be bilaterally symmetrical. A little of the anterior, descending part is seen in this view, and just behind this the two halves are joined together for a short distance. Traced backward, however, the bands diverge, swing off to the sides, and dis- appear at the upper ends of the middle horns of the ventricles. Cutting away the roof of these cornua, we find the bands following the curve of these cavities, and