371 THE HEART. The bulk of the heart has been said to be approximately that of the fist of its owner ; but to this rough-and-ready rule there are so many exceptions as to render it of little value. During life the diameters of the heart are constantly changing, and measurements made after death may be misleading. It increases in weight and volume with rather unsteady progression to the end of hfe. Its average weight in the male is about eleven ounces ; in the female it is somewhat less. Its blood-vessels are the coronary arteries and veins. It has numerous lymphatics. The nerve-supply is derived from the pneumogastric and from fibres of the cervical and thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic. SEGMENT COHPOS' , FIBROUS THICKEN- ARANTII POSTERIOR ING OF EDGE SEGMENT Fig. 429.—Aortic valves. The artery has been cut open between the right and left segments, and spread out. (Testut.) The External Configuration of the Heart. The Grooves of the Heart.—The surface of the heart is marked by a series of grooves, which indicate the superficial limits of the various cavities. Between the auricles and ventricles is the auriculo-ventricular groove, which is incomplete in front, where the anterior surface of the pulmonary artery is con- tinuous with that of the right ventricle. This vessel occupies the bi'oad ventral depression between tlie auricles—the anterior interauricular groove. The posterior interauricular groove lies between the right pulmonary veins and the portion of the right auricle which connects the superior and inferior venje cavse. Between the ventricles are the interventricular grooves, which are continuous at the right of the apex of the heart. Tlie anterior interventricular groove begins between the pulmonary artery and the left auricular appendix, and runs down- ward upon the ventral surface of tlie heart. The pjostcrior interventricular groove starts at the left of the inferior vena cava, almost in continuation of the posterior interauricular groove, and courses forward upon the inferior surface of the organ. The Surfaces of the Heart.—When the heart has been hardened while main- taining its natural relations with contiguous organs, it presents six surfaces, sep- arated from one another V)y borders, which are defined with varying degrees of distinctness. The Ventral Surface (Fig. 430) is slightly convex, irregularly quadrilateral, and looks forward and a little upward. It presents the front of the right ven- tricle, a part of the right auricle, of both appendixes, and of the left ventricle. The right (anterior) coronary artery is seen in the right auriculo-ventricular groove, giving off branches, of which the principal are the j^reventricular above, and the right (anterior) marginal below, the latter running to the left near the lower border. The anterior interventricular groove lodges a branch of the left (posterior) coronary artery and the great coronary vein. The ventral surface is bounded by the ill-defined right border, which falls upon the convex surface of