THE LUMBAR GROUP. 119 Fig. 140.—Lumbar vertebra, viewed from above. (Testut.) what backward. From their outer The tenth articulates with but one pair of ribs. It has no demi-facets below, and the upper facets are usually complete, and mainly on the pedicle. The eleventh has a complete facet on the base of each pedicle, and none on the short transverse processes. The large body is elongated transversely, and the spinous process is short, stout, and horizontal, thus approaching the lumbar type. The twelfth resembles the huiibar still more in its body, spinous and transverse processes. The latter are short, and present external, superior, and inferior tubercles, corresponding to the transverse, mammillary, and accessory processes of the lumbar vertebrae. The inferior articular processes look outward, as in the lumbar. As to facets, it resembles the eleventh. All the thoracic vertebrae are thus seen to have either entire or demi-facets above, and only the first eight or nine have demi-facets below. Variety.—The tenth vertebra occasionally has no facets on the transverse processes. THE LUMBAR GROUP. The five lumbar verfebra;. (Fig. 140) are characterized by their large size and the absence of costal articular facets. The bodies are elongated transversely, and are slightly deeper in front than behind from the third down. The laminoe are strong, short, and deep. The spinous processes are thick, hori- zontal, and broad from above downward. The slender so-called transverse processes })roject out- ward from the pedicles in serial line with the lower ribs. They are in reality costal processes, and sometimes are developed into lum- bar ribs, especially in the first lumbar vertebra. At their bases, dorsally, a small process is seen to proje(;t downward—the accessory tubercle or rudimentary transverse process. The facets of the superior articular processes are slightly con- cave, and look inward and some- edges a tubercle projects backward, the mammillary process, which corresponds to the superior tubercle of the lower thoracic vertebrae. The facets of the inferior articular jirocesses look outward and slightly forward. They are nearer together, and are embraced by the superior processes, but not so closely as to prevent slight lateral and rotatory movements between the vertebrae. The foramen is triangular and larger than in the thoracic vertel)rse. The fifth lumbar vertebra is transitional, approximating the sacral. Its body is large, wedge-shaped, and much deeper in front than behind. To articulate' with the first sacral vertebra its inferior articular processes are as wide apart as the superior. The transverse processes are large, broad, and conical, sometimes- articulating with the sacral alae. The spinous process is short. Varieties.—In a small percentage (estimated at 5 per cent.) of cases the fifth lumbar vertebra is so separated into two parts through the arch that the dorsal segment consists of laminae, spinous and inferior articular processes. Varieties as to the Number of Jlforable Ycrtebrce.—The cervical vertebrae are remarkably free from variation in number, not only in man, l)ut in all mammals, with two or three exceptions. Variation in the number of thoracic and lumbar vertebrae may be reciprocal when it depends upon an increase or decrease in the number of pairs of lower ribs, causing an increase in the thoracic and a decrease