rA LMA BIS BBE VIS. 285 the first phalanx of the thumb. Action, adduction and flexion of thumb. Nerve, the ulnar.—The upper portion of this muscle is often described as adductor obliquus poUicis, and the lower as adductor transversus poUicis. The interossei, the abductor and adductor pollicis, and the abductor minimi digiti may well be considered together as constituting a distinct physiological group, the members of which are concerned either in abduction or adduction, or both (Fig. 32-1). Each of the five digits has attached to the base of its first Fig. 324.—Diagram showing the arrangement of the adductors and abductors of the digits of the hand. (F. H.G.) phalanx two of these ten muscles, one upon the radial, the other upon the ulnar side. The thumb has the abductor and adductor poUicis; the forefinger has the first dorsal interosseous (abductor indicis) and the first pcdmar interosseous (the adductor of the index) ; the ring finger has the second palmar interosseous (the adductor of the annularis) and the fourth dorsal iriterosseous (the abductor of the annularis); the little finger has the third palmar interosseous (the adductor of the least digit) and the abductor minimi digiti. The lateral opponent muscles of the middle finger are the second and third dorsal interosseous—the one drawing the digit from the middle line toward the radial side, the other drawing it from the middle line toward the ulnar side—that is, both are abductors. But, the finger being displaced laterally by one of these muscles, is restored to the middle line by the action of the other ; and thus it is seen that the second and third dorsal interosseous are, on occasion, adductors as well as abductors. One other muscle must be described, although it is so diminutive and nearly powerless that it does not deserve a place in any of the specified groups. Palmaris Brevis (Fig. 316.)—"The short palmar muscle." Situation, subcutaneous at the proximal part of the palm. Origin, the inner border of the palmar fascia and the middle