59 CRO>SS-STRIPED MUSCULAR TISSUE. are sometimes forked instead of being single-pointed, and sometimes the spindle shape is lost bv the rounding of the extremities. Often there is observed a faint appearance of lines running lengthwise, as if the cell were trying to develop into a striped fibre. A transverse cut shows that the cell has flattened sides, evidently the result of pressure from forcible contact with its fellows. The cell is alwavs nucleated, and generally beyond each end of the nucleus is a little collection of granules. The cell has a delicate structureless sheath. The length of the cells and inch, the greater part being very small. In some situations, as in the arterioles, the cells are separate; but usually they are associated in such a way as to make bundles (fasciculi) or layers (strata), being united by a small amount of adhesive material. The cells are aggregated with much regularity, the bulge of one being adjusted to the tapering tips of its near- est neighbors (Fig. 51). When distinct bundles are varies between 1 •5 0 0 Fig. 50. — CeUs of plain muscular tissue. (F. H. G.) Fig. 51.—Cells of plain muscular tissue arranged in a sheet. (F. H. G.) formed, they are usually attached at their extremities to some other structure through the agency of a fibrous prolongation. Cross-striped Muscular Tissue. This variety, also, like the plain, has a number of other names : striped or striated, from its microscopic appearance ; voluntary, because the most of it is under the control of the will ; the muscular tissue of animal life, because, while it has little direct effect upon the organs of the vegetative functions, it is largely concerned in those manifestations which are peculiar to animals. This tissue makes up a very considerable part of the bulk of the body, is principally con- nected with the bony skeleton, and is that material which, in other mammals, is called " flesh " or " lean meat." It is commonly found in coherent masses, of var3dng but definite shape, each of which, taken in connection with a fibrous prolongation at each end, is known as a muscle. The histological unit of cross-striped muscular tissue is a wuscle-fihrc, whicli is the homologue of the cell of the plain muscular tissue. This fibre is like a long cylinder, with somewhat flattened sides, and rounded or conical ends. It is completely enveloped in a very delicate sheath, the sarcolemma ("■ the flesh-husk "). When examined under an objective of moderate power, it seems to be marked with delicate, longitudinal, parallel, and equidistant lines, and with broad, transverse, regularly placed bands or stripes, from which the ordinary names of striated or striped (better, cross-striped) originate (Fig. 52). Between these cross-stripes are lighter areas, which, with a stronger objective, seem to be divided by a fine line. The cause of these peculiar appearances is not manifest until the tissue is studied with a microscope of great power, but then it is found that they are deceptive. There are no continuous bands or lines running transversely, and the apparent breaks in the longitudinal continuity of the cross-lines are an illusion, caused by the extreme fineness of the contractile material at regularly alternating intervals. The accompanying diagram (Fig. 53) will illustrate this. The fibre is represented as composed of a series of threads placed side by side in longitudinal rows. Each of these threads is a fibril { fibrilla), and is marked by alternating bulges and con- strictions, regularly placed, and arranged in the following order : a long, wide, fusiform bulge, a constriction, a small, globular bulge, a constriction, and so on