ELEMENTARY TISSUES. 74 tion to the amount of irritation to which tlie membrane is subjected. "Where the epithelial coat is columnar and single, the mucus is furnished very largely by the goblet-cells of the epithelium ; but, as these chalices are a modification of colum- nar cells, they are not found Avhere the epithelium is flat; and in such cases all of the mucus comes from distinct glands, which devote themselves to this work. Mucous membrane is generally connected with subjacent parts by areolar tis- sue ; but exceptionally this is not present, and then the membrane is attached directly. This occurs only in cases where the passage or cavity which the mem- brane lines is not subject to distention, as in the nose, where the corium is fastened to the bone. In general, the ai'eolar layer beneath mucous membrane is very ahundant, and the usefulness of this arrangement appears when we consider that the corium has but little elastic tissue in its composition, and in many cases is pervaded by glandular structures, which would be injured by the sti'etching of the membrane. As a rule, the cavities and tubes which are lined with mucous membrane are liable to great changes of size, owing to their intermittent occupa- tion by solids and fluids to such an extent as to distend them. Between the periods of distention are times of collapse. If the membrane were elastic, like serous membrane, and had no delicate glands embedded in its substance, it could be stretched within a large range without harm, and would return to its state of relaxation on removal of the distorting force ; and in such circumstances it would need but a moderate areolar layer between it and the subjacent parts. As it is, the membrane when relaxed becomes more or less folded—thrown into shallow or deep wrinkles—and presents a series of ridges, called 7'ugce, which in tubes are arranged in line with the longitudinal Fig. 80—Diagram showing the folding of the Fig. 81.—Diagram showing the effacement of the mucous membrane in a collapsed tube. (F. H. G.) folds of mucous membrane and the compression of the areolar layer when the tube is distended. Compare with Fig. 80. (F. H. G.) distending force is applied, as in the passage of a bolus of food through the gullet, or after a large dinner has been deposited in the stomach, these folds are efl^aced, the membrane becomes smoothed out, and presents an even surface (Fig. 81). This extensive change is rendered possible by the abundance of the submucous areolar coat, which is strong and elastic. Mucous membrane is very vascular, the vessels for its supply running in the submucous areolar tissue, and sending minute branches into the corium above. Its nerve-supply varies greatly in difiFerent parts—some being extremely sensi- tive, others dull of feeling. As would be inferred from the amount of lymphoid tissue in the corium, its lymphatics are very abundant. The peculiarities of the mucous membrane of each part where it exists will be detailed in the description of the organs respectively concerned. CUTANEOUS MEMBRANE. By this term is indicated the membrane which furnishes the outer covering of the body, and is ordinarily called skin. It is a complex structure, and has