416 THE BLOOD-VASCULAB SYSTEM. by dividing into the ulnar and radial. The artery is usually accompanied by venae comites. Relations of the Brachial. In front. Skin, superficial fascia. Deep fascia. Median nerve. Basilic vein. Outer side. Coraco-brach ialis and biceps mus- cles. Brachial artery. Inner side. Ulnar and in- ternal cuta- neous nerves. Behind. Musculo-spiral nerve. Superior profunda artery. Triceps and brachialis muscles. Variations.—High division of the brachial is frequently seen, and has been noted at all parts of its course. The vessel given off" high up is usually the radial, sometimes the ulnar, rarely the interosseous. Surgical Anatomy (Fig. 458).—The brachial artery may be exposed for ligation in any part of its course. The vessel is superficially sit- uated and readily exposed, the landmarks being the inner border of the coraco-brachialis muscle in the upper part of the arm, and the inner border of the biceps in the middle and lower portions of its course. An incision is made two inches in length parallel with the inner border of those muscles, the skin, super- ficial fascia and deep fascia are divided, and the artery is exposed. In the superficial fascia the basilic vein often lies in the course of the artery; the median nerve is usually superficial, external above and internal below ; the ulnar nerve is internal, and the vessel is accompanied by vente comites. The Branches of the brachial are the superior profunda, muscular, nutrient, inferior profunda, and anastomotica magna. The superior profunda accompanies the musculo-spiral nerve in the musculo-spiral groove between the internal and external heads of the triceps. Above the elbow it winds to the anterior surface of the forearm, and anastomoses with the recurrent branches of the arteries of the forearm. Muscular branches are given oflT to the muscles of the arm. The nutrient branch is given off to the humerus, entering the nutrient foramen in the shaft of the bone. The inferior profunda artery accompanies the ulnar nerve to the pos- terior surface of the elbow, and anastomoses with the recurrent branches of the arteries of the forearm. The anastomotica magna, arises from the brachial two inches above the elbow, Avinds backward to the posterior surface of the internal condyle, and anastomoses with the recurrent branches of the arteries of the forearm. M Willi III Mill Fig. 459.—Brachial artery. (Testut.)