418 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTE3L Variations.—The ulnar often arises from the brachial in the arm, and some- times even from the axillary. The vessel is occasionally superticially situated, being in front of the superficial flexor muscles instead of covered by them. Surgical Anatomy (Fig. 463).—The ulnar artery can be exposed for ligation in any part of its course, the muscle and tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris being the guide for finding the vessel. In the upper part of its course the artery is covered by the superficial flexor muscles, and, in order to reach it after dividing the skin and superficial fascia, the flexor carpi ulnaris is separated from the rest of the group, and the artery is exposed, with its vente comites, the ulnar nerve being to the outer side. In the lower half of its course the artery is superficial, and can be exposed by an incision made along the outer border of the tendon of SUPERJOR PROFUNDA INFERIOR PROFU N DA MUSCULO- SPIRAL NERVE [ POSTERIOR -j INTEROSSEOUS ( RECURRENT Anastomoses at the back of the elbow. ANASTOMOTICA — MAGNA Fig. 462.—Arteries in the region of the bend of the elbow. (Testut.) the flexor carpi ulnaris, which should divide the skin, superficial fascia, and deep fascia. The artery is here accompanied by the ulnar nerve which is internal and also by venee comites. The Branches of the ulnar are divided into three gi'oups, those in the forearm, those in the wrist, and those in the hand. In the forearm the branches are the recurrent arteries, anterior and posterior, the interosseous, and the muscular. The recurrent branches wind upward and inward, the anterior in front and the posterior behind the inner condyle, to anastomose Avith the inferior profunda and anastoniotica magna branches of the brachial. The interosseous is a short trunk which divides into two branches. The anterior interosseous passes downward on the anterior surface of the inter- osseous membrane to the carpus, and supplies the deep layer of muscles. The posterior interosseou.s arises above the up2:)er margin of the interosseous membrane, to the posterior surface of which it runs ; here it gives off an ascending, or recur- rent, branch, which passes up to the posterior surface of the internal condyle to