643 THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES. gray in color, an inch to an inch and a half long, and is placed in front of the transverse ])rocesses of the second and third cervical vertebrae, and rectus capitis anterior major. In front of it is the internal carotid artery, and to its outer side the vagus nerve. Connections.—Its (isaending branch enters the cranium ; its lower end is con- nected to the second ganglion. Gray rami Gominunicantes pass from it to the four upper cervical nerves, while its medullated connections with the spinal cord take a circuitous course, being derived from the upper dorsal nerves, and ascending to join it through the sympathetic trunk. Besides connections with cranial nerves, through its ascending Ijranch (about to be described), it is joined by tilaments to the lower ganglion of the vagus and the hypoglossal nerve; and a small jugular branch ascends to the jugular fora- men, and there divides into two, one branch going to the root ganglion of the pneumogastric, and the other to the petrosal ganglion of the glossopharyngeal. It distributes pliaryngeal branches to the pharyngeal plexus, filaments to the upper cervical vertebrae and tlieir ligaments, and branches to blood-vessels ; and from it also springs the upper cardiac nerve. The Ascending Branch.—The ascending or carotid branch runs upward on the inner side of the carotid artery to the carotid canal where it divides into an inner and an outer division. Each division gives oif some special branches, and then they both ascend on the termination of the carotid artery, supply that vessel, and terminate in plexuses on the ophthalmic and anterior and middle cerebi'al arteries. The outer division, as it ascends on the outer side of the carotid trunk, receives one or two carotico-tympanic filaments from the tympanic branch of the glosso- pharyngeal, and then forms the carotid plexus on the carotid artery, as it lies in the carotid canal. This plexus gives a twig to the sixth nerve as the latter crosses the carotid artery, some filaments to the Gasserian ganglion, the large deep petrosal nerve to the Vidian, and the small deep petrosal nerve to the tympanic plexus. The inner division ascends on the inner side of the carotid artery, and forms a plexus on that vessel as it lies in the wall of the cavernous sinus, which is hence called the cavernous plexus. From this plexus filaments are given to the third nerve near its bifurcation, and to the fourth nerve as it runs in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus. The si/mpathetic root of the ciliari/ ganglion and filaments to the pituitary body are also derived from this plexus. The pharyngeal branches of the sympathetic arise from the fore part of the ganglion. They descend on the side of the pharynx and unite with the pharyn- geal branches of the pneumogastric and glossopharyngeal to form the pharyngeal plexus. The superior cardiac branch of the sympathetic springs by two or more branches from the ganglion and sometimes from the sympathetic trunk below it. It descends behind the carotid sheath on the longus colli muscle and prevertebral fascia, crosses over or beneath the inferior thyroid artery, and beneath the recur- rent laryngeal nerve. As they enter the thorax the two nerves differ in their courses. The rigid nerve runs in front of or behind the subclavian artery and along the brachio-cephalic artery to the back of the aortic arch, where it joins the deep cardiac plexus. It is usually joined by the superior cardiac branches of the right vagus. The left superior cardiac nerve, behaving similarly to the right nerve in the neck, enters the chest along the side of the left common carotid artery, and crosses the aortic arch to join the superficial cardiac plexus. Occasionally it passes behind the aortic arch to the deep cardiac plexus. Besides the branch described to the internal carotid artery, this ganglion supplies filaments, which form a plexus on the external carotid, artery and its various branches. From the plexus on the facial artery a branch is sent to the submaxillary ganglion; and the plexus on the middle meningeal artery supplies the otic ganglion with its sympathetic root, and sends a filament to the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve.