511 THE CEREBRUM. back, and ends anteriorly to this plane, thus obliquely dividing the surface into approximately equal parts. The Parieto-occipital Fissure.—Far back on the upper margin of the hemi- sphere, as it slopes toward the base, is seen a notch, which marks the beginning of a tissure of the mesial surface, the parieto-occipital fissure, which will be described later. The Lobes on the External Surface (Fig. 555).—In these three fissures we have the basis for a division (^f the lateral surface into lobes ; and, although the division is rather artificial, and " lobe " is not an ideal name for the segments, it is necessary to have some means of designating the various parts, and this plan is convenient. The lobes visible on this cf)nvex surface are the frontal, the parietal, the occipital, and the temporal ; but, though bearing the names of certain cranial bones, the limits of the lobes do not coincide with those of the osseous structures nearest which each respectively lies and from which it gets its name. If a line is drawn from the parieto-occipital fissure downward and forward to a point on the lower border beneath the rear end of the Sylvian fissure, usually marked by a notch, the ])re-occipital, and another line in prolongation of the nearly horizontal part of the Sylvian fissure is made to touch the first one a little above its middle, the delimitation of the lobes is effected. Behind the parieto- FiG. 555.—The lobes of the convex surface of the hemisphere, left side. occipital line is the occipital lobe ; in front of this and beneath the Sylvian fissure and its extension is the temporal lobe (temporo-sphenoidal); in front of the central fissure is the frontal lobe; and the residue, the area bounded in front by the central fissure, below by the Sylvian, beliind by the parieto-occipital and its imaginary prolongation, and above by the longitudinal fissure, is the parietal lobe. The Insula.—If the lower and front part of the parietal lobe and the lower and back part of the frontal lobe are lifted away from the Sylvian fissure, and the adjacent part of the temporal lobe is pressed down, there is brought into view a fifth lobe, which, from its situation, is called the central lobe, but is more com- monly known as the insula (" the island") or the island of Reil (Fig. 556). Until fa?tal life is half completed this lobe is distinctly superficial; but then its immediate neighbors increase so rapidly in size as to outstrip the insula in the race of growth—the parietal folds down, the frontal bulges back, the temporal crowds up from below—and among them it gets completely covered in ; and in this process the Sylvian fissure is formed, the portion between the frontal and temporal lobes being the main fissure, that between parietal and temporal being the posterior limb, and that within the frontal the anterior liml). Morpho- logically the insula is the oldest lobe, and it stands, as will soon be shown, in