ELEMENTARY TISSUES. 48 agency being removed, the strained yellow fibres assert their elasticity, pull the Avhite fasciculi back into their undulations, and assist a little in the restoration of the parts between which it lies to their former attitude of repose. The tissue is connective in a typical sense. Disease and accident atford strik- ing illustrations of the freedom of intercommunication of the areolae. Fig. 31.—Areolar tissue, composed of bundles of white fibrous tissue and branched strands of yellow fibrous tissue loosely Inter- twined. Fig. 32.—a portion of areolar tissue in- flated and dried, showing areolae. and also of the vast extent of this structure just beneath the skin—here called the subcutaneous areolar tissue. The lymph-like fluid mentioned above is sometimes formed more rapidly than is normal, or, what amounts to the same thing in effect, its absorption is less rapid than its formation, and the excess accumulates in the areolae. But, as each of these spaces opens into all of its neighbors, the fluid gravitates from one to another into those which are most dependent, and these it distends proportionately to its amount. In such a case, when the feet have been upon the floor all day, by evening they are swollen ; but, after the patient has passed a night in bed in the horizontal position, the enlargement disappears almost entirely, because the fluid has gravitated back-again and has be- come widelv ditfused. Sometimes, as in fracture of a rib, a sharp fragment of bone perforates the chest-wall and slightly punctures the lung, leaving an open tract between some of the air-vesicles of the latter organ and the areolar tissue near the surface of the body. Every time that air is drawn into the lung, some of it escapes through the acci- dental opening into the subcutaneous areolar tissue, the spaces of which become inflated, at first only in the region of the injury, but at each breath more and more extensively, until finally all of the areolae under the skin are so ballooned that the victim presents such an appearance as is shown in Fig. 33. The areolar tissue around certain organs, as vessels, becomes somewhat con- densed and forms a distinct sheath. The nourishing vessels of a part are situated in its areolar tissue. In the narrow spaces between the lobules of a solid organ, as the liver; forming a layer outside of the mucous coat of hollow organs, as the Fig. 33.—Inflation of subcutaneous areolar tissue, due to introduction of air through a wound in the chest-wall and lung. (Gross.)