507 THE WALLS OF THE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. pletely in the view from above. Imagine it growing as the cavity has been repre- sented to spread out—its central part (the aula) increasing little, the lateral portions much—and suppose that in the median line the wall is relatively very thin, and almost everywhere else very thick. The result is that there is an immense mass on each side, the two separated by a deep fore-and-aft cleft, and held together by bands near the bottom of this dividing fissure. As in all other pai'ts of the encephalon, there is substantially a bilateral symmetry in these structures; that is, the portion on one side is a reversed repetition of that on the opposite side. Seen from above each suggests by its form a half-globe; and, although the resemblance is not observed from other points of view, the name hemispheres is given to these cerebral masses. If the encephalon is cut in two exactly in the middle line, and an inspection is made of the left surface of the right half, we have such a view of the first and second vesicles as is shown in Fig. 549, only that the diagram, in- stead of displaying them in contact, as they lie in nature, represents the upper of the two segments as if nearly separated from the lower by a tilting up of its hind end and a correspond- ing depressing of its front, the pivotal point being the region of the porta (foramen of Monro), represented by a circle at the left of the label " thala- mus " and a little above it. The red line indicates pia. Between the porta and the label is the aula (the median portion of the first vesicle), Fig. 549—Diagram tnshow the relations of the parts f. j_i i» i 1 i J? developed from the tirst vesicle to the parts developed trom the iront and upper part Ot from the second vesicle. The hemisphere is tilted for- which the porta opens into the lateral (I' ^ Ct.) ventricle. Tlie aula and all above and in front of it is cerebrum, the develop- ment of the first vesicle. Observe that the pia is ajiplied to the hemisphere and is reflected from it to the thalamus, which constitutes the main portion of the wall of the second vesicle. The ])art marked caUosum is the cut surface of the great bond of union between the hemispheres. This body reaches far into the substance of the hemisphere, and forms the roof of the lateral ventricle. In the picture all above, before, and l)ehind the callosum is free surface of the hemi- sphere, not cut by the median incision. A little below the callosum is an arched structure, labelled/ornu;, cut through by the incision. Between callosum above and fornix below is stretched a thin plate, the septum Imklum. Going down to the region of the second encephalic vesicle, we find that its cavity has been com- pletely ex]iosed by the median cut, and its lateral wall, marked thalamus, disjjlays a free surface ; but when Ave look for the cavity of the first vesicle, we find only the aula and the ]iorta; that is to say, the front and upper part of the third ven- tricle, and the hole of commimication between the third ventricle and the lateral ventricle, the last named chamber being shut from our sight by the sc]itum lucidum. To get a view of the lateral ventri{ile our best plan is to slice ofi' the mass of the hemisphere which lies over the callosum, and then to cut through the latter near the median line, removing as much of the structure as is necessary to expose the cavity beneath it. We shall then observe what is shown in Fig. 550. The right lateral ventricle has been unroofed by this removal and its floor is laid bare. This has a very uneven surfiice from the irregularity of the contour of the structures which form it. The intrusions of substance are due in one place to the thickening of the wall of the (cavity, and in another to the infolding of the wall where it is rather thin. At the front part is an illustration of the former, the caudate nudem bulging into the chamber in a region where there is a bulky