THE URETHRA. 787 fascia is an important means of fixation. Around the lower levels of the bladder this fascia is closely united to the muscular tunic, and is sometimes spoken of as a covering of the bladder, thinning out rapidly as it stretches upward. Several parts of this fascia are conventionally described as true ligaments of the bladder— two anterior, two lateral, two posterior—l)ut they are usually indistinct, and it is not important to mention more than the two anterior or pubo-prostatic, which connect the lower part of the pubic body with the front of the prostate gland and the adjacent portion of the bladder. Just beneath each of these is a prolongation of the front and lower part of the longitudinal muscular layer, called the vesico- puhie muscle, connecting bladder and pubis. The urachus and the obliterated hypogastric arteries extend from the junction of the upper and anterior surfaces to the umbilicus. Folds of peritoneum aid in mooring the bladder, two posterior being reflected to it from the sides of the rectum, the hollow between them being called the reeto-vesical pouch ; two lateral from the iliac fossse; and one superior, folded over the urachus. These serous reduplications are called false lic/aments. The continuity of the vesical, prostatic, and ureteral mucous nieml^ranes, the strong areolar and adipose connections of the bladder with all of the immediately and the blood-ves- neig:hborino: ortjan sels—all these in the fix- are factor ation of tiie bladder. Relations of the Bladder.—The pre- vious description has involved inci- dentally so much mention of the relations of the bladder that but little more need be said of them. Its poste- rior surface, which is the widest, rests in the male upon thei'ectum (Fig. 856). The serous covering of the superior surface extends for a variable distance upon the posterior, and thence is re- flected to the rectum. The line of its lowest attachment to the liladder forms the base of a triangle, whose sides are made by the vasa deferentia. The area thus bounded is accessible to sui'gieal operation through the rectum ; Init it is luisafe to count ujion more than an inch of non-serous suriace in the median line between the hind limit of the prostate gland and the fold of peritoneum, though there may be double this amount. In the female the bladder has behind it the vagina and uterus. AVhen the bladder is distended, the anterior (pul)ic) surface is so enlarged that it partly rises out of the })elvis, and at the same time the peritoneum is lifted away from the lower part of the abdominal wall, and stretched over the extended area of the superior surface. This leaves a space of two inches or more just above the pubic crest in which an incision can be made without injuring the peritoneum. The arteries of the bladder are the superior and inferior vesical, and, in the female, the uterine also ; its i^eins are radicles of the internal iliac ; its lymphatics are tril)utary to the internal iliac nodes ; and its nerve-supply is from the third and fourth sacral, and the hypogastric plexus of the sympathetic. PROSTA Fig. S56.—Base of the bladder, showing the vasa deferentia and seminal vesicles. The peritoneum is raised by hooks. (Testut.) The Urethra. The urethra is the tube by wliich the urine is conducted from the bladder. Its name, like " ureter," is derived from the Greek word which means " to urinate." The male and female urethrte difler so materially that a separate description of each is necessary.