THE FOOT AS A WHOLE. 163 those of the fourth and fifth toes, which are not infrequently ankylosed with the terminal phalanges. The two .scmmoid bones in the tendon of the flexor brevis hallueis glide in the two grooves on the plantar aspect of the head of the first metatarsal bone. Sesamoid bones occasionally occur elsewhere in the foot. Ossification.—The metatarsal and phalangeal bones ossify exactly like the corresponding bones in the hand. THE FOOT AS A WHOLE (Figs. 181-184). The foot is narrowest at the heel and widens to the heads of the metatarsal bones. The bones of the foot fijrm a longitudinal arcJi with a single pier, the calcaneum, behind, while the forward pier is formed by the heads of the meta- tarsal bones. It may be divided longitudinally into two parts in front, with a common support behind. The inner division consists of the hind two-thirds of Fig. 183.—The bones of the right foot, viewed from the outer side. (Testut.) the calcaneum, the astragalus, navicular, cuneiforms, and the three inner metatar- sals. It bears the gi'eater part of the weight, and is the most raised from the ground. The outer division is formed by the calcaneum, bearing the cuboid and the two outer metatarsals, and acts mainly as a buttress to the inner arch. The longitudinal arch is sujiported largely by the ])lantar ligaments, while a trans- verse arcJi, having its two internal ])iers at the internal cuneifoi'm and the first metatarsal, and its external piers at the cuboid and the fifth metatarsal, is formed by the wedge-shape of the cuneiform bones and of the bases of the metatarsals. Fig. 184.—The bones of the right foot, viewed from the inner side. (Testut.) The longitudinal arch is weakest between the astragalus and navicular, where it is liable to yield, giving rise to flat-foot. In this condition it is well seen that the arch is not quite straight from the heel to the toes, but is slightly convex internally and concave on the outer border. The astragalus inclining inward