195 THE EXTERIOR OF THE SKULL. ward and slightly outward, is formed by the or'bital margin, Avhich is quadrilateral in shape with rounded angles. It is bounded above by the frontal, Avith the supraorbital notch or foramen at the junction of its inner and middle thirds ; internally by the nasal process of the maxilla ; below by the infraorbital margins of the maxilla and malar, and externally by the malar bone. The concave roof of each orbit is formed by the orbital plate of the frontal and the small wing of the sphenoid. The outer tvalls of the orbits diverge so as to be almost at right angles with each other, and are formed by the orbital surfaces of the great wings of the sphenoid and the malar bones, the latter containing the temporal and malar canals. The floor, sloping from within downward and outward, is formed by the maxilla, with the orbital process of the palate-bone behind and a small part of the malar bone in front. The inner walls of the two cavities are nearly parallel, and are so continuous with the floors as to give a triangular shape to the orbit in some specimens, which is especially marked at l)irtli. Each is formed, from before backward, by the nasal process of the maxilla, the lachrymal bone, the OS planum of the ethmoid, and the body of the sphenoid. The aj^ex of the orbit is at the inner extremity of the sphenoidal fissure, whose outer end separates the back part of the roof and outer wall. The optic foramen lies at the back of the orbital roof, above and internal to the apex. In the angle between the roof and the inner wall lie the anterior and posterior ethmoidal foramina in the eth- moidal section of the transverse suture. The latter extends horizontally from one to the opposite external angular process of the frontal bone, along the margins of the orbital plates of the frontal and the nasal notch between. In the angle between the roof and the outer wall, in front, is the fossa for the lachrymal gland. In the angle between the outer Avail and the floor in its posterior two-thirds is the spheno-maxillary fissure, communicating behind with the spheno-maxillary fossa, and in front with the zygomatic fossa. From its inner border the infraorbital groove passes forward in the floor of the orbit to the infraorbital canal. In the angle between the floor and the inner wall, and just behind the orbital margin, the lachrymal groove passes down into the lachrymal canal. A depression, some- times a tubercle, for the pulley of the superior oblique muscle is seen a little behind the supero-internal angle of the orljital margin. The orbits communicate with the cranial cavity and the nasal, spheno-maxillary, and zygomatic fosste. The nasal fossae (Fig. 223) are two irregular, oblong cavities of a truncated pyramidal shape. They are narrow transversely, especially above, but have a considerable diameter vertically and from before backward. They extend from the base of the skull to the upper surface of the hard palate, and open in front by the anterior nasal aperture, and behind into the pharynx by the posterior nares. They are situated one on each side of a median, vertical septum, nasi or interiud vmll, formed by the vertical plate of the ethmoid, the vomer, the rostrum of the sphenoid, the nasal spine of the frontal, and the crests of the nasal, max- illary, and palate bones. The angular interval between the vomer and the ethmoid plate in front is filled by the septal cartilage, Avhich Avith the bony sep- tum is usually deflected to one side, most commonly to the left. The narrow roof of each fossa has a middle horizontal part formed by the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, Avith its many small apertures leading from the anterior cranial fossa, and an anterior and a posterior part sloping downward. The anterior slope is formed by the nasal bones and the nasal spine of the frontal. The posterior slope is formed by the body of the sphenoid, the sphenoidal turbinate bones, the alee of the vomer, and the sphenoidal processes of the palate-bones, and it contains the openings of the sphenoidal sinuses. The fioor of each fossa, Avider than the roof, is smooth and concaA^e transversely, Avith a slight back^vard slope. It is formed by the palate processes of the maxilla and palate-bone, and ^iresents in front, close to the septum, the incisor foramen (or canal), leading to the oral cavity. The exten- siA'e outer wall, sloped dowuAvard and outAvard, is formed by the nasal, maxillary, lachrymal, ethmoid, inferior turbinate, and palate bones, and the inner surface of the internal pterygoid plate. It presents three horizontal recesses or meatuses.