221 THE EL BO W-JOINT. the extremes of both there is about 90° of motion. In abduction and adduction the arm moves away from or toward the body, respectively, on a horizontal axis at right angles with that last named, and parallel to the surface of the glenoid fossa. Rotation occurs in an outward (or backward) and in an inward (or for- ward) direction on an axis drawn from the centre of the head to the inner con- dyle of the humerus, and over a range of between 90° and 100°. In extreme abduction ( /. e., to about 90°) or extension the great tuberosity strikes against the coraco-acromial ligament and the acromion process, and further motion is thus limited. In extreme abduction the lower part of the capsule is tense. In out- ward rotation the coraco-humeral ligament is made tense, and in both inward and outward rotation the upper part of the capsule is tightened by twisting. Otherwise, the muscles rather than the ligaments restrain the movements. The great freedom of motion at the shoulder, by which the arm can be raised so as to be nearly vertical, is in part due to the movement of the scapula, which always accompanies movements at the shoulder-joint. Both abduction and Hexion over 90° are due to rotation of the scapula, by which the glenoid cavity is turned out- ward and upward, or forward and upward. In dislocation the coraco-humeral ligament is thought to be important in determining the position of the dislocated limb and the manipulation for its reduction. The subacromial bursa lies between the joint-capsule, with its attached ten- dons, and the arch formed by the coracoid and acromion processes and the coraco- acromial ligament, and it also extends beneath the deltoid muscle. It facilitates the movements of the upper end of the humerus. The coraco-acromial arch forms a sort of secondary socket, against which the head and tuberosities of the humerus are pressed when the weight of the body is supported by the arms. The biceps tendon acts as a ligament of the joint, preventing the humerus from being pulled up forcibly against the acromion, and keeping the head in the glenoid socket, especially when the arm is away from the side of the body and is pulled down by the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi muscles. 4. The Elbow-joint (Figs. 241-243). This is a true hinge-joint between the trochlear surface of the humerus and the great sigmoid cavity of the ulna. It is broadened, and thereby secured against Fig. 241.—Elbow-jilint, mesial view. (Pcjiricr.) lateral motion or displacement, by the articulation of the up]:)er end of the radius with the capitellum of the humerus. To the shape of the bones is due the strength and security of the joint. Beneath the surrounding muscles and ten-