180 THE BONES. side. (Testut.) The horizontal or cribriform plate is so named from a number of perforations arranged in thi-ee rows, of which those in the inner and outer rows are the larger and transmit the olfactory nerves to the inner and outer walls of the nasal fossae. This plate forms the depressed olfactory groove of the anterior cranial fossa, which lodges the olfactory bulbs on either side of the crista galli. On each side of the fore part of the latter is a longitudinal slit for the nasal branch of the fifth nerve. The lateral masses or labi/rintJts contain a number of irregular, thin-walled ethmoidal cells between their two lateral walls. The thin, smooth, oblong outer wall forms most of the inner wall of the orbit, and is called the os planum (" smooth bone") or orbital plate. The borders of this plate and of the lateral mass articulate in front with the lachrymal, beloAv with the superior maxilla and palate-bones, behind with the sphenoid and sphenoidal turbinate bones, and above with the orbital plate of the frontal. The latter articulation completes the two horizontal, transverse grooves in each bone into the anterior and posterior eth- moidal caiuds. These articulations (together with that of the nasal process of the maxilla with the fore part of the lateral mass internally) close the exposed half- cells of the ethmoid. The ethmoidal cells are lined by a continuation of the nasal mucous membrane, and are divided by a transverse septum into an anterior and a posterior set. The anterior set opens into a sinuous canal, the infundibulum, which leads from the frontal sinuses to the middle meatus of the nose ; the posterior cells open into the superior meatus. The cells are sometimes divided into posterior, middle, and anterior sets, the two latter opening together. The inner wall forms the upper part of the outer Avail of the nasal fossa, and is grooved for olfactory nerves and blood-vessels. It consists of the superior and middle turbincde bones, which have attached upper borders, but are free and somewhat rolled outward interiorly. They are continuous in front, but separated in the posterior half by a channel, the superior meatus of the nose, directed forward from the posterior border. The middle turbinate extends the length of the bone, and overhangs and bounds superiorly the middle meatus of the nose. From beneath the fore part of the os planum a long, thin lamina of bone, the unciriate (" hook- like ") process projects backward and downward in the outer wall of the middle meatus, where it articulates with the ethmoidal process of the inferior turbinate bone, and helps to close the inner wall of the antrum of the maxilla. Articulaiion occurs with thirteen bones—viz., the frontal and sphenoid of the craniimi, and the vomer, two nasal, two lachrymal, two maxilke, two palate, and two inferior turbinate bones of the face. fhsijication proceeds in cartilage from three centres—one in the perpendicular plate and one in each lateral mass. True bony ethmoidal cells do not appear until the third year. VERTICAL PLATE CRIBRIFORM PLATE. Fig. 200.—The ethmoid bone, seen from above. (Testut. PROCESS Fig. 201.—The ethmoid bone, its left