624 THE NERVES. branch of the last thoracic nerve, crosses the iliac crest to the gluteal region, supplying the skin between the crest and the great trochanter. 2. The Ilioinguinal Nerve. The ilidingumal nerve (Figs. 672, 673, 685, 686) arises in common with the last and accompanies it as far as the iliac spine but a little lower, uniting with it in a plexiform manner. It gains the inguinal canal and appears at the external abdominal ring in front of the spermatic cord, dividing into branches to the inner side of the thigh, and the scrotum or lal)ium majus according to sex. These two nerves supply twigs to the muscles of the abdominal wall. 3. The Genitocrural Nerve. The genitocmral nerve (Figs. 672, 673, 677, 685, 686) arises from the first and second lumbar nerves. It appears on the anterior surface of the psoas muscle, on which it descends, dividing into two branches near the commencement of the external iliac artery or anywhere above this point. The internal or genital branch joins the external iliac artery, to which it con- tributes a twig, and then enters the inguinal canal. It is found on the back of the cord and is distributed to the crcmaster muscle. In the female it is small and accompanies the round ligament. The external or crural branch accompanies the psoas under the inguinal liga- ment and pierces the deep fascia just outside of the common femoral artery to supply the skin in front of the thigh. 4. The External Cutaneous Nerve. The external cutaneous nerve (Figs. 672, 673, 675, 678, 685, 686), derived from the second and third lumbar nerves, pierces the outer border of the psoas and descends across the iliacus and under the fascia iliaca to the notch beneath the anterior superior iliac spine. Here it enters the thigh under the inguinal ligament and divides into a small posterior branch to the skin in front of the great trochanter, and a large anterior branch which descends for some distance in a sheath of fascia lata, and is distributed to the skin on the outer side of the thigh as low as the knee, where it joins the plexus patellae. 5. The Anterior Crural Nerve. The anterior crural nerve (Figs. 672, 673, 675) is the largest trunk formed by the lumbar plexus. It springs from the second, third, and fourth lumbar nerves, the roots uniting in the substance of the psoas muscle to form one trunk, which descends along its outer side to accompany the muscle under the inguinal ligament to the thigh. In the thigh the nerve is separated from the common femoral artery by about half an inch, and divides immediately into a large num- ber of branches which may conveniently be classified as cutaneous and muscular, some of the latter furnishing articular twigs to the hip and knee-joints. (a) The nerves to the iliacus are given off in the abdomen as the nerve crosses the muscle. (6) The nerve to the pectineus arises immediately below the inguinal ligament, and crosses outward to its muscle behind the common femoral vessels. (c) The nerves to the rectus and vastus externiis run downward and outward beneath the former muscle, that to the vastus internus runs parallel with the long saphenous nerve as far as Hunter's canal. Of these the nerve to the rectus sends a twig to the hip-joint and each of the others sends articular branches to the knee. Id) The middle cutaneous nerve (Figs. 673, 674, 675, 685, 686) consists of two strong branches, one of which pierces and supplies the sartorius. They