130 THE BONES. commonly, at a later period, more particularly in front, and more often in the male than in the female. THE THORAX AS A WHOLE. The bony thorax (Figs. 153, 154) forms an irregular, truncated cone, com- pressed from before backward. It is longer behind than in front, so that its upper small reniform aperture, or inlet, looks slightly forward as well as upward, and the plane of the lower opening, or base, also looks forward and downward. Fig. 153.—The skeleton of the thorax, front view. (Testut.) The margin of the irregular base is formed by the two curved lines of the edges of the lower six pairs of ribs and cartilages, converging to the xiphi-sternal junction, and bounding the subcostal angle, in the centre of which projects the ensiforra pi'ocess. The dorsal wall, formed by the thoracic vertebrse and the ribs as far as the angles, is convex from above downward. The backward curve of the ribs forms a broad furrow, the vertebral groove, between the angles of the ribs and the vertebral spines, which lodges the erector-spinse muscle group. This backward position of the angles of the ribs, about on a level with the thoracic spines, causes the flatness of the back which allows the supine position character- istic of man. The ventral rvall, formed by the sternum and costal cartilages, is inclined downward and forward at an angle of 20° or 25° with the vertical plane, and is only slightly convex. The sides, formed by the ribs, from the angles to the cartilages are convex from above downward; much more so from before back- ward. From about the ninth rib down they slant inward. The interior cori'e- sponds in shape to the exterior, except for the median projection of the vertebral bodies, which makes the median diameter less than that on either side, and only little more than one-half of the external median diameter. The lateral grooves formed by the forward projection of the vertebral bodies and the backward curvature of the ribs lodge about as much of the lungs as lies in front of a transverse plane tangent to the bodies. This circumstance, together with the I