THE ARTERIES. 401 The branches of the pterygoid portion of the internal maxillary artery supply the muscles of mastication. They are the tempjoral, the masseteric, the pterygoid, and the buccal, and carry blood to the temporal, the masseter, the internal and external pterygoids, and the buccinator. The branches from the third or spheno-maxillary portion are the alveolar, the infraorbital, the descending palatine, the Vidian, the pterygo-palatine, and the spheno-palatine. The alveolar supplies the posterior portion of the alveolar process of the upper jaw, and also the molar and bicuspid teeth. The infraorbital passes with the infraorbital nerve along the infraorbital groove and canal, makes its appearance on the face at the infraorbital foramen, and supplies here the soft tis- sues over tlie superior maxillary bone, anastomosing with branches from the facial. In the orbit the artery gives off" muscular branches, which supply the inferior oblique and inferior rectus muscles, and in the canal branches to the canine and incisor teeth. The descending palatine passes with the descending branches of Meckel's ganglion down the posterior palatine canal to the mouth cavity, then runs in a groove on the under surface of the hard palate forward to the anterior palatine canal, where it anastomoses witli the anterior palatine artery, and sup- plies the gums and mucous membrane of the hard palate. The Vidian passes backward through the Vidian canal to be distributed to the pharynx and Eusta- chian tube. The pterygo-palatine passes backward through the pterygo-pala- tine canal, and is also distributed to the upper part of the pharynx. The sphcno-palatine passes through the spheno-palatine foramen into the nasal cavity. It divides into two branches, the naso-palatine, which runs in a groove of the vomer downward and forward to the anterior palatine foramen, where it anasto- moses with the descending palatine artery; and an external branch, which sup- plies the mucous membrane of tlie outer wall of the nasal cavity. The Internal Carotid Artery (Fig. 443). Origin : from the common carotid opposite the superior border of the thyroid cartilage. Course and termination : the vessel runs upward in front of the trans- verse processes of the upper three or four cervical vertebrae to the carotid canal in the petrous portion of the temporal bones, runs through the canal to its internal opening, and enters the cranial cavity, and then enters the cavernous sinus, occu- pying a position between the fibrous covering of the sinus and its lining mem- brane. It leaves the sinus at the internal surface of the anterior clinoid process, and passes to the fissure of Sylvius, where it breaks up into its terminal branches. The artery is distributed mainly to the brain and eye. The vessel is divided into four portions, a cervical, a petrous, a cavernous, and a cerebral, which should be studied in detail. The cervical portion is that extending from its origin to the lower opening of the carotid canal. Relations. In front. Skin, superficial fascia. Platysma and deej) fascia. Sterno-mastoid, stylo-glossus, and stylo-pharyngeus muscles. External carotid and occipital arteries. Hypoglossal nerve and glossopharyngeal nerve. Parotid gland. Externally. Internally. Internal jugular vein. Pharynx. Pneumogastric nerve. Internal Inferior laryngeal nerve. carotid Ascending pharyngeal ar- in the neck. tery. Tonsil. 26