392 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. importance ; the sheath is exposed and opened, care being taken not to injure the descendens hypoglossi, which is usually in front of the sheath. The internal jugular vein is external, sometimes overlaps the vessel; the pneumogastric nerve is external and behind the vessel. In passing an aneurism-needle care should be taken to avoid these structures, which is best done by passing the needle from without behind and inward. The vessel lies deeply situated in the lower part of its course, and the operation to expose it is more difficult; an incision four inches in length is made from the sterno-clavicular articulation upwai'd along the inner border of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle. This incision divides the skin, super- ficial fascia, platysma, and deep fascia. The sterno-cleido-mastoid is turned to the outer side ; this exposes the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles; these are drawn to the inner side, and the sheath of the vessel is exposed. The inter- nal jugular overlaps and is external to the vessel; the pneumogastric nerve is external and behind. These structures are to be avoided in passing the aneurism- needle. After ligation of a common carotid, collateral circulation is soon estab- lished through the free anastomoses which exist between the branches of the internal and external carotids of the opposite side, and the anastomoses which exist between the branches of the external carotid of the side operated upon and the branches of the subclavian. Branches.—The common carotid, as a rule, does not give off any branches in its course; in rare cases it gives off a sujierior or an inferior thyroid or the ver- tebral artery. The terminal branches are the internal carotid and the external carotid. The External Carotid Artery (Figs. 443, 445). Origin : the external carotid begins as one of the terminal branches of the common carotid opposite the superior border of the thyroid cartilage. Course : it passes upward and outward to a point between the condyle of the jaw and the external auditory meatus. Termination: it terminates in the substance of the parotid gland by dividing into the temporal and the internal maxillary arteries. Relations. In front. Integument, superficial fascia, platysma and deep fascia. Hypoglossal nerve. Lingual and facial veins. Digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles. Parotid gland. Facial nerve. Internally. External Hyoid bone, carotid Pharynx, artery. Inferior laryngeal nerve. Behind. Superior laryngeal nerve. Stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles. Glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Parotid gland. Variations.—The external carotid may arise above or below its usual point— i. e., opposite the superior border of the thyroid cartilage. Sometimes the artery arises as a branch from the aortic arch. Cases are found where the external carotid is altogether absent, the common carotid not dividing into the internal and external carotids, but supplying from a common trunk the branches usually