794 THE DUCTLESS GLANDS. the stomach, covering the distance from the eighth to the eleventh ribs, and lying with its long axis in line with that of the tenth rib. Its measurements are usually not less than tive inches for length, three for breadth, and one inch for thickness, and they may be considerably more than the above without departui-e from the normal, so great are the variations of its size within physiologic limits. Its weight also differs, conformably with its size, but will generally be five ounces or more. It is ])urple in color, of a soft oonsistency, rather friable, and sags out of sliape by its own weight. Surfaces and Borders.—It presents three distinct surfaces, separated by three bor- ders. The phrenic surface, so called from its relation to the diaphragm, is convex, is as large as Ijoth of the others, and faces backward and to the left. The opposite (mesial) area is divided by a lengthwise ridge into a larger, anterior, concave gas- tric surface, in contact with the stomach, and a smaller, posterior, concave renal surface, which receives the left kidney. The lower end is blunt, and is sometimes Fig. 864.-The spleen, showing the gastric and designated as the basal surface. The renal surfaces and the blood-vessels. (Testut.) anterior border is between the phrenic and gastric surfaces, is sharp and notched; the posterior border separates the phrenic and renal surfaces, and is rounded ; the internal border is the ridge between the gastric and renal surfaces. Upon the gastric surface, close to the internal border is a notch, the hilum, marking the passage of the splenic vessels and nerves. Structure of the Spleen. The spleen has a complete serous coat (Fig. 865), which is reflected from it at the hilum, a layer passing to the stomach, as the front lamina of the gastro- splenic omentum, the hind lamina being contributed by the small sac of the peritoneum, and another layer passing to the kidney, as the hind lamina of the lieno-renal ligament, whose front lamina is furnished by the small sac of the peritoneum. From the upper end of the spleen a serous fold, the phreno-splenie ligament, connects it with the diaphragm. Beneath the serous coat is the tunica, propria, composed f)f mingled white and yellow fibrous tissues, the latter material being very abundant, and giving the organ great elasticity. Many cords and bands {trabecula') project into the organ from the inner surface of this tunic, and some })lain muscle-cells are mixed with the fibrous elements. At the hilum the tunica propria is reflected inward upon the vessels, and forms sheaths around them. At some distance from the surface, the arteries having become smaller by branching, the character of the sheath is changed from fibrous material to lymphoid, and at frequent intervals it is thickened so, as to ])resent globular or ovoid masses, the Malpighian corpuscles, sometimes s^i^ inch in diameter. By the entrance of the trabeculae in one direction and the ensheathed vessels in another, the contained room of the s])leen is divided into numberless, minute, irregular, intercommunicating spaces ; and these last are subdivided by delicate fibrous strands, connecting trabeculse and vessel-sheaths, the surfaces of these little cords being covered by branched fibrous-tissue cells. The resulting areolae