582 THE NERVES. (c) The external pterygoid nerve is given off from the long buccal nerve, which also contributes some tibres to the temporal muscle. {d) The long buccal nerve, with the exception of those branches just mentioned, is purely sensory. It passes between the two heads of the external pterygoid muscle, and runs doAvnward and forward under cover of the temporal muscle and anterior border of the masseter to the buccinator. Between the masseter and buccinator it divides into branches to the skin and mucous membrane of the cheek, the latter piercing the fibres of the buccinator. It communicates with the facial, forming a plexus around the facial vein called the buccal plexus. The larger or posterior division is almost entirely derived from the sensory root, the only motor fibres it contains passing along the inferior dental nerve to form its mylohyoid branch. Its branches are as follow : (a) The auriculotemporal nerve arises by two roots which usually enclose the middle meningeal artery. It passes backward and outward close under the tem- poromaxillary articulation, then upward between it and the external auditory meatus, under cover of the upper part of the parotid gland. Emerging from under the gland it crosses the root of the zygoma with the superficial temporal artery slightly behind which it lies, and divides into superficial temporal branches to the skin of the temple. In this course it gives off (1) articidar twigs, one or two fine filaments to the temporoniaxillary articulation. (2) Conununicating branches, consisting of one or two stout branches to the facial nerve ; and slender filaments to the otic ganglion, which latter are im- portant because they conduct secretory fibres from the glossopharyngeal nerve to the parotid gland, by way of the lesser petrosal nerve, otic ganglion, and parotid branches of the auriculotemporal. (3) Two nerves to the meatus pass between the bony and cartilaginous part of the external auditory meatus, and supply the skin of the meatus, contributing a twig to the tympanic membrane. (4) Several jmrotid branches pass from the nerve itself, or its communicating branches to the facial nerve, into the gland substance. (5) Two anterior auricular branches supply the skin over the tragus and upper part of the pinna. (6) The superficial temporal nerve is the termination of the auriculotemporal. The posterior division breaks up into branches which cross the posterior branch of the temporal artery, the anterior division communicates with the temporal branches of the facial nerve. They supply the skin of the temporal region. [b) The Inferior Dental Nerve (Fig. 643) is the largest branch of the mandib- ular division of the fifth nerve. It emerges from under the lower border of the external pterygoid muscle, and running downward upon the internal lateral liga- ment of the lower jaw, with the inferior dental artery behind and the lingual nerve in front of it, it enters the inferior dental canal. Before entering the canal it gives off the mylohyoid nerve. In the inferior dental canal it runs forward toward the sym])hysis menti, sup- plying branches to the teeth and gums, and opposite the mental foramen it divides into a mental and an incisive branch. The incisive branch runs forward in the con- tinuation of the dental canal to supply the canine and incisor teeth and cor- responding part of the gums ; while the mental branch appears on the face by issuing through the mental foramen with a companion artery, and, under cover of the depressor anguli oris, divides into a descending bi'ancli to the integument of the chin, and two ascending branches to the skin and mucous membrane of the lower lip. It communicates with the supramandibular division of the facial nerve. The mylohyoid branch of the inferior dental nerve is rather to be regarded as coming straight from the motor root and only accompanying the infei'ior dental in its sheath as far as the inferior dental canal. It occupies the mylohyoid groove with an artery of the same name, and runs in the recess under the mylohyoid