30 INTR on UCTOR Y. cise recital of the principal organs of the body and a statement of the chief function of each. In this way he will learn a number of most useful anatomical facts, and they will be gras^jed all the more readily because they are strung on a physiological thread. In the few succeeding pages an effort is made to aiford the student just this assistance. Organs Removing Waste Matters. The human body is a machine, and, like every other machine, wears out in using. We all know that even in circumstances favorable for the preservation of a corpse, such as coolness and dryness of the atmosphere, it undergoes destruc- tive changes so rapidly that before many days have passed what was once an object of beauty and the occasion of delighted admiration becomes altogether grewsome and revolting. And yet, swift as is this putrefaction, the wearing out of the tissues in life is more speedy. The greater the physical activity of a man, the more rapidly are his textures broken down. Every movement, however trifling, every glance of the eye, every thrill of sensation, every thought or emotion, is attended with destruction of substance. The products of this waste are poisonous, and if retained in the system in any considerable amount cause sickness and even death. But there are channels by which these effete and toxic materials are continually escaping—namely, the hinc/s, the skin, the kidneys, and the howeJs. Water, the common vehicle in the body-changes, carries them out in solution. The solvent and vehicular services of water are very manifest in the case of the urine, which is loaded with the waste escaping through the kidneys ; and they are often as plain in the case of the perspiration, which contains the effete matters discharged through the skin. The excrement which comes from the bowels is not in solution when it appears, but this is due to its loss of water subsequently to its formation and during its detention in the intes- tine. Other products of decomj)osition are borne out with every expired breath, this being saturated with water, as appears by its visible condensation whenever the surrounding air is sufficiently cooled. The Vascular System. At this point there naturally arises the question of the means by which the various eflFete materials that are constantly being formed in every part of the body get to the four outlets named. This carriage is accomplished by the vascular system, which consists, first, of a complicated series of tubes, the blood-vessels, connected with which is a powerful organ, the heart, which drives the blood in a continuous current through them ; and, second, of another set of tubes, the lymph-vessels, whose stream of lymph flows into that of the, blood. Almost everywhere in the body there are minute crevices between the elementary particles and threads of the tissues, and into these chinks the textures discharge their wasted molecules, always in solution in water. These tissue-ci'annies com- municate with little cylindrical tubes, into which the liquefied waste is poured. The tubes are lymph-vessels, and they conduct their contents to certain blood- vessels, where it mingles with the current of blood. Some effete matters pass from the tissues directly into the blood. The blood is contained in and com- pletely fills the heart and the blood-vessels associated with it, these being, first, the arteries, which are tubes through which the blood flows from the heart to the tissues ; second, capillaries, microscopic tubes of wonderful thinness and delicacy, through which the blood flows in the midst of the tissues ; and, third, veins, through which the blood flows ainay from the tissues. The heart, which is a kind of force-pump, drives the blood through this great system of tubes in a ceaseless stream, and thus brings it in practical contact with the tissue-elements that make up the various organs. When the blood, laden with impure matters from every part of the body, comes to one of the organs (kidneys, lungs, bowels,