BRANCHIAL CLEFTS AND STRUCTURES DERIVED FROM THEM. 87 time the enamel begins to be formed by the lower ends of the deeper layer of cells of the enamel organ becoming transformed into calcareous prisms. Finally, around the outside of that portion of the papilla which is not covered by the enamel organ there appears, about the fifth month, a dejjosition of bony matter derived from mesodermal cells and constituting the cement. After the separation of the anlagen of the milk teeth from the dental shelf the latter continues to sink deeper into the substance of the jaw, and opposite each milk tooth a second enamel organ arises from it, and, mesodermal papillae also forming as before, the anlagen of the permanent incisors, canines, and pre- molars are formed. The permanent molars arise in a similar manner from a lateral extension of the dental shelf, and as soon as all the anlagen are formed the tissue of the shelf in the intervals between the various teeth begins to disap- pear, occasionally, however, persisting in irregular masses luitil adult life, and producing various abnormalities. In addition to the teeth certain glandular structures develop from the epithe- lium of the oral cavity, the most important of which are the salivary glands, which arise as simple tubular evaginations, and gradually, by branching, become more and more complicated. The Branchial Clefts and the Structures derived from Them. At each side of the pharynx there are, as already stated, four furrows (Fig. 99), represented internally by corresponding depressions, so that along each furrow the pharyngeal epithelium is in contact with the ectoderm of the surface of the body. In the lower vertebrates actual perforation of the thin membrane so formed occurs, forming the gill-slits, but in birds and mammals the perforations do not develop. The first furrow lies immediately behind the mandibular process, and between the members of each successive pair of furrows is a thickened ridge, constituting a branchial arch, each arch being homologous with the maxillo-mandibular jiro- cesses, which really represent the first arches, the mouth being the first branchial cleft. As development progresses the second arch of each side grows more rapidly than the others, which are in consequence pushed inward toward the median line, and a deep depression is formed at the side of the neck, the sinus prcecervicalis. From the posterior edge of the second arch a fold grows backward over the mouth of this sinus, and eventually completely covers it in by uniting posteriorly with the side of the body. ENAMEL ORGAN. B Fig. 100.—Diagram of the development of a tooth.