THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 810 peritoneal tissue; (7) the parietal tunica vaginalis. The integument forms a common covering for both testicles; the remaining layers, meeting in the median line, form the septum scroti, which passes inward between the two glands, giving to each a sejiarate compartment. The Integument is thin, very distensible, deeply pigmented, covered with right inguinal ca (opened) CREMASTERIC MUSCLE AND FASCIA INTERCOLUMNAR FASCIA PERSISTENT SEROUS CAVITY AROUND CORD—EXCEPTIONAL rUNICA VAGINALIS PARIETAL LAYER INFUNDIBULIFORM FASCIA BIGHT HALF OF SCROTUM SKfN LEFT HALF OF SCROTUM Fig. 877.—The scrotum. On the left side the cavity of the tunica vaginalis has been opened; on the right side only the layers superficial to the cremaster have been removed. (Testut.) short hairs, and studded with nunierous sudoriparous and sebaceous glands. Along its median line there runs a longitudinal ridge or raphe, from which numerous folds are directed transversely outward. The Dartos ("flayed") is a thin, reddish, fibrillated layer, Avhich lines and is intimately attached to the deep surface of the integument. It corre- sponds to the two layers of the superficial fascia, with which it is continuous over the abdomen and groin ; but it differs from these in that it consists of elastic tissue, with abundant, smooth, muscular fibres, and contains no fat. The muscular fibres, mostly longitudinal in direction, are attached to the deep surface of the skin. Under the infiuence of cold, mental emotion, and in the healthy, they are contracted, causing the scrotum thereby to become short and corrugated ; in the feeble, and under the influence of warmth, they relax, and the scrotum becomes pendulous, and its ridges almost effaced. The dartos, as such, is con- tinued over the penis and perineum. The Intercolumnar Fascia {external spermatic) is a thin, fatless, transparent membrane, which lines the dartos. It is continuous above with the pillars of the external abdominal ring, and with the transverse fibres connecting them.