816 THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. formed chiefly of plain muscular fibres, the great majority of which are arranged longitudinally. It extends to the preputial orifice, then like the skin turning backward, it becomes more and more attenuated, and is finally lost on the cervix. When contracted, the dartos compresses the veins, and thus favors engorgement. The areolar sheath lying beneath the dartos, is jirolonged forward as far as the preputial orifice. It is loose, rich in elastic fibres, but almost devoid of fat, and contains the superficial vessels and nerves. To this layer the skin owes its mobility. The fascia of the penis reposes on the erectile bodies. Anteriorly it does not enter into the formation of the prepuce, but passes directly to the base of the glans, where it fuses with the integument. Behind, it is continuous with the superficial perineal fascia and the suspensory ligament. Structurally it is com- posed almost entirely of elastic tissue, and it therefore acts as a compressor of the deep veins. Conformation and Fixation.—The anterior extremity or glans penis has already been described. Tlie bochf, when flaccid, is soft, cylindrical in outline, aiid hangs vertically from the front of the symphysis, forming with the root an acute angle, the angle of the penis ; when erect, it becomes much larger, changes in direction, and is prismatic in outline with rounded borders. The root is made up chiefly by the diverging crura. These are held in position by their insertion into the ischio-pubic rami, and by short fibrous bands, which unite them to the pubic arch, the symphysis, and the inferior layer of the triangular ligament. The suspensory ligament, a triangular band of elastic tissue, also aids in securing the root. Its apex is attached to the upper part of the symjihysis and the neighbor- ing linea alba ; its posterior border blends with the front of the symphysis ; its anterior border is free. Below, its fibres divide into two groups, median and lateral. The former are inserted into the fascial sheath to the right and left of the dorsal vein, the latter separate to surround the cavernous bodies. Vessels.—The arterial supply (Fig. 884) of the envelops is derived from the external pudic, and from the superficial perineal and dorsal artery of the penis, CAVERNOUS BRANCH Fig. 884.—Diagram of the arteries of the penis. (Testut.) branches of the internal pudic. Each cavernous body receives from the corre- sponding internal pudic a branch, which penetrates the albuginea on its inner side just behind the point where the converging crura meet. This vessel sends a recurrent branch to the cms, and then passes forward in the central axis of the body, anastomosing frequently through the fissures in the septum with its fellow. Small twigs from the dorsal artery of the penis also perforate the albuginea. The bulb and body of the corpus spongiosum are supplied by a branch (artery of the bulb) from each internal pudic. A smaller branch from the same source or from the transverse perineal also enters the dorsal surface of the bulb. The glans is supplied by the dorsal artery of the penis. In the erectile tissue the arteries are supported by the trabeculse, and are divided into two groups—