ELEMENTARY TISSUES. 50 Gelatinous Tissue. This tissue is jelly-like, as its name implies. It is also called mucous tissue and mucoid tissue. No typical example of it occurs in the adult body; but the gelatin of Wharton in the umbilical cord illustrates it perfectly. Here is seen a protoplasmic network, formed by the union of the processes of cells, which are identical with those of white tibrous tissue. In the meshes of this reticulum is a semitluid ground substance. This tissue is the most immature form of fibrous tissue. The vitreous body (or humor) of the eye is composed of gelatinous tissue ; but the fibrous element is so slightly developed that its existence is by some observers denied, and almost all of the cells have disappeared, the few which remain being shrunken and indistinct. The vitreous is in large })art (about 99 per cent.) water, and its appearance is that of a mass of beautifully transparent, colorless, and delicate jelly. The service performed by the vitreous is strictly sustentacular. It is the stuffing which keeps the ball of the eye in its globular shape, preventing the wrinkling of the retina, which would be utterly destructive of definiteness of sight. When lost, the vitreous is not restored, having a low vitality and prac- tically no recuperative power. Adenoid Reticular Tissue. The word reticulmii is the diminutive of the Latin rete, " a net," and conse- quently means "a little net." "Adenoid" comes from the Greek word for "gland," and signifies "gland-like." Adenoid retieidar ti.mie, therefore, means the tissue forming the network in gland-like structures, particular reference being had to the framework of the so-called lymphatic glands, which are far better named " nodes," since they are not real glands. This network has points of resemblance to areolar tis- sue—may, indeed, be regarded as a modification of it. The reticulum consists of strands of white fibrous tissue, with few, if any, yellow fibres intermingled, and these delicate trabecula; ("little beams"), which support the proper substauce of the node, are nearly or quite covered by fibrous-tissue cells in the shape of broad, thin plates closely applied and wrapped around them (Fig. 36). Though the most characteristic display of this tissue is in the lymphatic nodes, it is widely distributed in the body, and is particularly abundant in mucous membranes. Neuroglia. Literally, the word neuroglia means " nerve-glue," and is misleading, for it is used as the name of a network supporting the nerve-substance of the brain Fig. 37.—Neuroglia cells. (F. H. G.) and spinal cord. This reticulum is not made of white fibrous tissue, as is that