THE MUSCLES. 336 and largo azygos vein. In front of this and higher up is an opening which trans- raits the oesophagus and pneumogastric nerves. Still higher and to the right is a third large aperture, devoted to the vena cava. Besides these great perforations are a number of small holes, which transmit nerves and vessels. The diaphragm is higher on the right side over the liver, and its upper surface is somewhat indented at the front central part, beneath the heart. Its uerve-sup- ply is mainly from the phrenics. When the diaphragm contracts, its arch is flattened, and thus the vertical capacity of the chest is increased. Intercostales Externi (Fig. 400).—"The external between-the-ribs muscles," the muscles in the outer layer between the ribs. Their number corresjjonds to that of the intercostal spaces. They generally extend from the tuberosities of the ribs to the junction of the cartilages; the remainder of each space is occupied by a fibrous membrane. A similar membrane lines the muscles from the angles of the ribs backward. Each muscle arises from the lower border of a rib, runs downward and forward, and is inserted into the upper border of the rib next below. Their action lifts the ribs. Their nerves are the intercostal. Intercostales Intemi (Fig. 400).—" The internal between-the-ribs muscles." Their number is that of the intercostal spaces. They occupy these spaces from the sternum to the angles of the ribs, and beyond these points fibrous membranes fill the spaces. Each muscle arises on the inner surface of a rib and its cartilage, just above its lower border, runs down- and backward, and is inserted into the inner surface of the rib just beneath. Their action is not agreed upon. The intercostal nerves supply them. Levatores Costarum (Fig. 391, L. C).—" The lifters of the ribs." They ai-e twelve in number. Each is inserted into the outer surface of a rib, between its tuberosity and angle, and arises from the tip of the transverse process of the ver- tebra immediately above. A few of those which are lowest in the series have each an insertion also into a rib beyond that proper to itself. The name of these muscles indicates their supposed action—elevation of the ribs ; but it is probable that, instead of this, they contribute to the extension and lateral flexion of the thoracic part of the vertebral column. They are supplied by the intercostal nerves. Triangularis Stemi.—" The triangular muscle of the sternum." Synonym, transversiis thoi'acis anterior, " the front transverse muscle of the chest." Situa- tion, on the inner side of the thoracic cage in front. Orif/in, the ensiform appen- dix, the lower part of the gladiolus, and the cartilages of the lower two or three true ribs. Direction, partly horizontal, partly oblique, partly nearly vertical. Insertion, the outer extremities of the costal cartilages from the second to the sixth. Action, depression of the ribs, to whose cartilages it is attached. Nerves, the intercostal. Subcostales.—" The under-the-ribs muscles." Synonym, infracostales, " the beneath-the-ribs muscles." These are small, inconstant muscles, found usually near the angles of the ribs, on the inner surface of these bones, and extending over two intercostal spaces. Their direction is down- and backward, and their nerves, the intercostal. Their action, which must be very insignificant, is not yet determined. THE MUSCLES OF THE NECK. A number of the muscles in the neck have already been considered in connec- tion with those of the back, the continuity of tissue or the close functional rela- tion between the former and the latter making this arrangement most convenient in all cases, and inevitable in others. There remain for study those muscles which are located in the ventral and lateral portions of the neck.