236 THE ABTICULA TIONS. Fig. 254—The semilunar cartilages of the right knee-joint. (Testut.) fibres ascend slightly forward and inward to the front of the outer side of the internal condyle of the femur. Behind and below it is adherent to the posterior ligament. It crosses the anterior crucial ligament on its inner side, and is blended with it below, but separated from it above by a V-shaped space. The synovial membrane is prolonged over them both. The external and internal semilunar fibro-eartilages are two crescentic plates, of a dense, compact structure, attached by their thick, convex, outer margins to the inside of the capsule. They rest upon the circumferential portions of the ujjper arti- cular facets of the tibia, covering a little less than two-thirds of these surfaces. They increase the concavity for articulation with the femur by a gradual thinning to their concave, free inner borders. Their upper, concave, femoral, and lower flattened tibial surfoces are free and covered by synovial membrane. They taper to their attached ends or cornua, which are purely fibrous, and are fastened in front of and behind the tibial spine, the cornua of the external car- tilage being within those of the internal. The external semilunar cartilage is therefore more circular, the internal is more oval and longer from before backward. The external is also more movable, from the close approximation of its cornua and from the greater laxity of the ])art of the capsule to which it is attached. Its outer margin is grooved behind, and separated from the capsule by the popliteus tendon, the bur.sa surrounding which connects with the joint above and below the cartilage. The transverse ligament is a variable transverse band which connects the outer borders of the two semilunar cartilages in front. Corrmary ligament is a name applied to that part of the capsule between its attachment to the semilunar cartilages above and the head of the tibia below, which holds the cartilages in apposition with the tibia. The synovial membrane, the largest in the body, lines the capsule of the joint. Above the patella, in front of the femur and beneath the extensor tendon, it forms a large pouch, communicating in most cases with a bursa above it, which lies between the extensor tendon and the front surface of the femur, above the attachment of the capsular membrane. Traced downward, it is found to line the capsule until it meets the semilunar cartilages, where it is reflected onto their upper surfaces, around their free margins, onto their lower surfaces, and so back to the portion of the capsule called the coronary ligament, which it lines down to its tibial attachment. From the capsule behind and the semilunar cartilages below this membrane is reflected onto the crucial ligaments, which it invests, except behind and below, and thus shuts them out of the synovial cavity. It also forms the alar and mucous ligaments. Synovial bursoi beneath and between the gastrocnemius and semimembranosus internally, and beneath the popliteus tendon externally, may connect with the synovial cavity. The nerve-supply comes from the internal and external popliteal, the anterior crural, and the obturator nerves. Movements.—The principal movements are those of flexion and extension, which result from a combination of gliding and hinge rotation, not on a fixed axis, but on one which shifts with the points of contact from behind forward in extension, and vice versa in flexion. The points of contact of the articular surfaces are constantly changing from the flattish lower surface of the femoral condyles in extension to their more sharply curved hind surfaces in flexion, and from the fore part of the tibial surfaces in extension to their hind part in flexion. The looseness