539 THE MESENCEPHALON. CORPORA QUADRIGEMINA TEGMENTUM sometimes called the nates, and a lower (posterior), known also as the testes. A median groove separates the right tubercles from the left, and ends above at the posterior commissure ; and the sniaerior are divided from the inferior by a trans- verse gutter. At the outer sides the quadrigemina riui upward and forward into the brachia (Fig. 597). A cross-section of the isthmus (Figs. aqueduct 594, 595) shows that each lateral half is divided into two unequal parts by a band of nerve-cells, so deeply pigmented as to have received the name of locus niger (•'the black place"), Ventrally to this is the column of white nervous tissue which forms a side boundary to the interpeduncular space, and is called the crusta ("crust"). Dorsally is a mass of mingled white and gray, the tegmentum ("covering"). At each border the locus niger comes to the surface at a groove, that which is mesial being the place of emergence of the third cranial nerve, and the other, called the lateral groove, runs from the internal geniculate body to a point between the superior and middle peduncles of the cerebellum. The crusta is largely composed of flat bundles of white tissue which present their edges at the free surface. The part of the crusta close to the locus niger is the stratum intermedium. The tegmentum extends from Fig. c cephalon LATERAL GROOVE LOCUS NIGER INTERPEDUNCULAR SPACE ■94.—Transverse section of the meson- . (Testnt.) OCULO-MOTOR NUCLEUS RED rjl NUCLEUS Fig. 595.—Transverse section through the anterior quadrigemina. (Testut, after Stilling.) STRATUM INTERMEDIUM the locus niger up to the level of the aqueduct, and above this plane is the lamina quadrigemina, upon wliich tlie corpora quadrigemina rest. The aqueduct is a small canal and is surrounded by a considerable thickness of gray, in which are emliedded clusters of nerve-cells, which are connected with the roots of the third, fourth, and fifth cranial nerves. In the fore part of the tegmentum is a globular collection of cells, the red nucleus, through which pass the roots of the oculo- motor (third) nerve. On the surface of the tegmentmn a])ove the lateral groove appears the external portion of the lemniscus. The anterior extremity of the