744 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. Borders of the Liver. The Anterior Border separates the upper and under surfaces in front. It is thin, sharp, and bevelled at the expense of the inferior surface. It is con- tinuous around the right and left extremities of the viscus with the postero- inferior border. It is slightly notched at the beginning of the umbilical fissure, and more widely so where the gall-bladder touches it. The Postero-inferior Border separates the hind and under surfaces. It is well defined, except upon the left lobe between the Spigelian lobe and the place where the posterior surface is lost in the margin. The Postero-superior Border, that between the hind and upper surfaces, is marked far less distinctly than the others by any conformation of hepatic sub- stance. At the left of the vena cava the upper end of the Spigelian lobe and a ridge from it to the beginning of the posterior margin indicate sufficiently the line of separation ; but on the other side of the vein the dome-like superior surface of the right lobe slopes without break to the back of the organ. There is, however, a line along which the serous covering of the upper surface is reflected to the hind wall of the abdomen—a line seen with equal distinctness from above and from the rear—and this is taken as the natural delimitation of the surfaces in question. The Extremities of the Liver. The Right Extremity is massive, evenly convex above, and terminated below by a sliarp edge, which is bevelled at the expense of the under surface. The Left Extremity is thin, flattened horizontally, convex above, concave below, and margined by a very distinct edge. Tunics of the Liver. The liver is closely invested by a delicate areolar membrane, which is reflected inward at the portal fissure upon the vessels and ducts passing through this open- ing, and encloses them even to their interlobular ramifications. This wrapping of the hepatic tubes is known as the capsule of Glisson. It is not found in con- nection with any vessels of the hepatic vein series, because it ceases between the lobules, and at least half of the diameter of each of these bodies intervenes between the intei'lobular space and the intralobular vein, which is the initial root- let of the system of hepatic veins. These last vessels are, as it were, channeled in the substance of the liver, and are so intimately adherent to it that, unlike most veins, they show no tendency to collapse, Avhen cut across. The walls of the branches of the portal vein, on the other hand, tend to fall together when severed, the investment of areolar tissue not holding them open. The fibrous coat of the liver is most distinct at the areas over which there is no serous mem- brane. Like most other organs in the abdomen the liver has a serous tunic, derived from the peritoneum. From the small curvature of the stomach there passes to the portal fissure the double peritoneal layer which is known as the gastro-hepatic omentum, one layer coming from the front, the other from the hind surface of the stomach. The anterior of these spreads out upon the under surface of the liver, turns up over the anterior border and the two extremities, and then covers the upper surface, except small areas at the back edge of the right and left lobes, and except, also, where the membrane which comes from the right end meets that from the left. Here a very narrow strip of surface, widening into a triangular area behind, is left bare ; and on eacli side the membrane is reflected upward to the diaphragm, on reaching which the layers turn to the right and left respect- ively, and line its under surface. This double membrane is prolonged forward and downward to the anterior abdominal wall as far as the navel, and in the free edge (the hind border) of the part of it below the liver is included the obliterated