657 THE SKIN. tlieir free margins pointing outward. These form the hair cuticle. Next comes the cortical subdance, some hairs having in addition a medulla or pith. The cortical substance consists of closely set elongated cells, which still retain a trace of a nucleus. The cells and intercellular spaces contain pigment, varying in amount with the color of the hair. Between the cells are air-spaces, the air being most abundant in white hair. In the thick, short hairs of the pubes, the hair of the beard, and in white hair in the scalp there is a central pith. It is composed of irregular, polyhedral cells, containing many air-spaces. The pith does not extend to the point of the haii', is not present in children under tive years of age, and is not found in the colored hairs of the scalp, or in fine hairs. Toward the bulb the cells which form the hair become polyhedral, and resemble the cells of the Malpighian layer. The bulb expands to enclose a vas- cular papilla of cutis vera. The hair follicle (Fig. 705) has dermic and epidermic constituents. The dermic coat consists of three layers. The outer layer is formed of longitudinally HAIR Fig. 704.—Vertical section of the skin, showing a hair and its follicle. (Testut.) arranged white fibres with connective-tissue corpuscles, and numerous vessels and nerves. It is continuous with the reticular layer of the corium. Within this is a layer of circular fibres, which appears to represent the papillary layer of the corium, and within these is a structureless lamina (the hyaline layer), repre- senting the l)asement membrane of f etal skin. These two inner layers extend out from the bottom of the follicle to the openings of the sebaceous glands. The epidermic coat is divisible into two ])arts, the outer root-sheath, which is simply the Malpighian stratum of the epidermis, and the iyiver root-sheath, which may be taken as representing the stratum lucidum, and presents three characteristic layers. On the outside, and next to the outer root-sheath is Henle's layer, a single layer of non-nucleated, flattened cells ; then comes Hn.rleifs layer, consisting of polyhedral cells, two or three deep ; and lastly the cuticle of the root-sheath, a