589 THE EIGHTH OB AUDITORY NERVE. The inframandibular branch has already been sufficiently described. (Note.—The fact that the frontalis, orl^icularis pal])ebrarum, and corrugator supercilii, escape in cortical facial paralysis, furnishes clinical evidence of a con- nection between the facial nerve and the oculo-motor nucleus, which pi'obably takes place through the posterior longitudinal bundle. The association of the movements of the lips and tongue, and the involvement of the orbicularis oris in bulbar paralysis suggest that this muscle is supplied from the hypoglossal (twelfth) nucleus. This is probably effected by a communication from the nucleus of the twelfth to the facial nerve through the posterior longitudinal fasciculus.) The Eighth or Auditory Nerve. Nucleus of the Eighth or Auditory Nerve (Fig. 646).—The auditory nerve springs from the lower border of the pons, just external to the facial, by two bundles. The more lateral or posterior of these is mainly distributed to the AUDITORY NERVE Fig. 046.—Distribution of tlie auditory nerve. (Semidiagrammatie.) (Testut.) cochlea, and is regarded as the true nerve of hearing; the mesial or anterior bundle supplies the semicircular canals (except the posterior) and its function is to convey the sense of equilibrium. As these roots plunge into the pons, they separate so as to pass one on each side of the restiform body. The lateral or cochlear root is divisible into several parts. The outer fibres pass dorsally along the outer side of the restiform body, and enclose a large number of cells, similar to those of a spinal ganglion, which form the ganglion of the cochlear root. Thence fibres pass dorsally to end in the dorsal nucleus and strise medullares. The more mesial fil^res of the cochlear root come into relation with a triangular group of cells, which lies ventral to the restiform body and forms the accessory or ventral auditory nucleus. Other fibres pass by the trapezium to the superior olive of the same and opposite sides. It is also connected with the flocculus. The mesial or vestibular root passes to the inner side of the restiform body, between it and the ascending root of the fifth nerve. When it reaches the dorsomesial side of the restiform body, most of its fibres bend caudally, and run