THE HYOID BONE. 189 is a depression for the insertion of the external pterygoid muscle. The condyle is convex and transversely elongated on an axis which, prolonged, would meet that of its fellow near the front of the foramen magnum. Its prominent outer end, beyond the articular surface, forms a tubercle, to which the external lateral ligament is attached. The thin coronokl process tapers upward and outward from the anterior border, and to its tip, borders, and internal surface the temporal muscle is attached. The inner surface presents a ridge, continuous below with the internal oblique line and the inner alveolar edge. Between this ridge and the anterior border is a groove for the insertion of the temporal muscle above, and, for a short distance, for the buccinator below. The changes according to age (Figs. 216, 217) are so ordered that the upper and lower gums, or teeth, as the case may be, meet in biting. Thus, at birth the angle is about 175°, the body is shallow and consists mostly of alveolar process, and the mental foramen is near the lower border. At about four years of age, after the first dentition, the angle is reduced to 140°, as the body plus the teeth is much deeper. In adult life the depth of the body has tut.) Fig. 216.—The mandible in infancy. (Tes- FiG. 217.—The mandible in old age. (Te&tut.) SO increased below, in the basal part, that the foramen is midway between the borders, and the angle is 120° to 110°, or even less. In old age the alveoli are absorbed, the foramen is near the upper border, the body is basilar, and the angle is increased to 140° or so, thus allowing the gums to meet. This throws the chin forward, and the pressure of the tightened Wps presses back the upper border of the bone in front. Ossification proceeds at a very early period from four to six centres on each side. The part from the symphysis to the mental foramen is ossified in the ante- rior end of Meckel's cartilage, the condyle and angle from separate centres in cartilage, and the rest in membrane. At birth the two halves are united by fibrous tissue. THE HYOID BONE. The hyoid (" like Greek letter upsilon ") or lingual bone (Fig. 218) is a small U-shaped bone which maybe felt at the base of the tongue, between the chin and the thyroid cartilage. It has a body and two pairs of cornua. The oblong body has a smooth, con- cave posterior^ surface, looking backward and downward toward the epiglottis. Its convex anterior surface, looking upward and forward, is divided l)y a transverse and sometimes a median vertical ridge into depressions for muscular attachment. Tlie superior border attaches the thyro- hyoid membrane. The great cornua taper backward and upward from the sides of the body, ending in rounded tubercles to which the thyro-hyoid ligaments are attached. The cornua are flattened above and afford BODY Fig. 218.—The hyoid bone. (F. H. G.)