501 THE CAVITY OF THE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. stantially equal size, whose cavities communicate through central apertures (Fig. 533). These five vesicles are the primary forms of the five grand divisions of the adult encephalon, and are named in order, from before backward, prosenceph- alon, dicncephalon, mesencephalon, epenceplialon, and metencephalon. The first and second show a tendency in the developed state to revert to their original con- dition of unity, and the same is true of the fourth and fifth ; but the third remains single and distinct from its earliest appearance to its most complete development. Vernacular names also are given them—forebrain, betweenbrain, midbrain, hindbrain, afterbrain—but only the first of them is so clearly descriptive as to convey infallibly the idea intended, and it would be better to discard them for the technical appellations, which, while etymologically not greatly superior, are widely used by the scientific with definite meanings, and are understood by all anatomists. When these vesicles are first observed, they are, as has been said, about equal in size and very similar in form ; but the likeness which they bear to each other does not long continue : they grow at very different rates of speed, and, when fully developed, are so dissimilar in appearance that it is difficult to understand that they could have been of almost identical shape and bulk at any former period. Some parts, which are brought into close contact with others, seem to blend; while others, in nearly similar conditions, undergo shrinkage, and finally disappear. FIRST VESICLE VESICLE FIRST VESICLE THE CAVITY OF THE CEREBRO SPINAL AXIS. Let us first consider the cavitt/ of the cerebro-spinal axis, ignoring for the while the enclosing walls ; and, when we have gained a comprehension of this, we can ])roceed more understandingly to the study of the surrounding solid material. Suppose the cavities of the five encephalic vesicles to be of equal size, and that of the spinal cord to be a cylindrical continuation from the fifth or hindmost vesicle. We have then, to start with, a series of chambers, each communicating freely with the one next behind it. This continuity of the cavities is always maintained, even though the original chambers un- dergo alterations of form so prodigious that only a very slight resemblance to the primitive shape re- mains. For the sake of sim- plification we will first examine the subject dia- grammatically, taking the vesicles one by one in regular order ; and, in con- sidering each, we will ignore as far as possible the changes which in nature take place in its immediate neighbors synchronously with those in itself. To begin with we have the first vesicle, the most anterior—the prosencephalon —which ultimately becomes the cerebral hemispheres. From the upper and front part of its globular cavity on each side a little sprout is put forth (Fig. 534). The distal end of this protrusion enlarges, and becomes of much greater size than the parent cavity (Fig. 535). Then each of the new appendages sends out a prolongation forward, a second backward, and a third which curls sidewise and downwai'd. These, from their shape, are called horns or cornua (Fig. 536). In this process of enlargement the original vesicle is so far outgrown by its off- shoots that it is in great danger of being lost sight of. The chief cavity on each side is called a ventricle, and, from its being at the side, lateral. Of the lateral Fig. 534—Diagram of the formation of the portae. Fig. 535.—Diagram of the formation of the bodies of the lateral ventricles.