THE PENIS. 813 described with the corpus spongiosum from which it is derived ; the other divisions will be taken up separately after the minute anatomy of the organ has been considered. Structure.—The penis consists of three cylindrical masses of erectile tissue (two corpora cavernosa and a corpus spongiosum), and a system of envelops, which surround and hold these together. The Corpora Cavernosa, each about six inches long and half an inch in diameter, make u[) the greater part of the body of the penis. They are placed side by side and united along the anterior three-fourths of their extent, their contiguous sur- faces being somewhat flattened. Behind they diverge, and, becoming gradually narrower, terminate in pointed extremities, which are inserted, one on either side, into the middle of the ischio-pubic rami. The divergent portions, called the crura 'penis (Fig. 880), are fixed to the descending rami of the pubes by connective tissue, and in- vested by the ischio-cavernosi (erectores penis) muscles, which surround them more or less completely. In its course each crus presents a sliofht enlargement called the bulb. The distal extremities of the cavernous bodies, conical in outline, are received into corre- sponding depressions in the base of the glans, where they are firmly secured by fibrous tis- sue. Two longitudinal grooves, one dorsal, the other ventral, are formed by the union of these V E R U M O TANUM Fig. sso.—The penis, proximal portion, seen from below. (Testut.) MEATUS Fig. 881.—The male urethra, laid open on its anterior (upper) surface. (Testut.) bodies. The former lodges the deep dorsal vein, the latter, much the deeper, is occupied by the corpus spongiosum. Structurally each corpus cavernosum consists of erectile tissue, invested by a sheath, the timica albnghua. The latter is composed of fibrous and elastic tissue, and is both tough and distensible. It is arranged in two layers, superficial and deep. The former, of longitudinal fibres, is common to both bodies ; the latter, of circular fibres, is proper to each. In the median line, where the two bodies touch, these circular fibres blend, making a septum, dense and complete behind, but in its anterior portion interrupted by numerous vertical slits, and hence called t\i& septum pectimforme (''comb-shaped partition"). From the inner surface of