607 BRACHIAL PLEXUS. scalenus mediiis and emerges from its external border. Passing beneath the levator scapulae, it supplies some twigs to that muscle, and reaches the deep sur- face of the rhomboids, where it is joined by the posterior scapular artery. It ends in the rhomboid muscles. 2. The nerve to the subclavius (5. c.) springs from the upper trunk. As a long slender filament it descends in front of the plexus and subclavian artery to supply the muscle from which it is named. It frequently contributes a filament to the ])hrenic nerve. 3. The suprascapular nerve (5. c.) (Fig. 658), also derived from the upper trunk, runs downward, outward, and backward over the scalenus medius and under the trapezius and omohyoid. It passes through the suprascapular notch, beneath the transverse ligament, and, after supplying a twig to the shoulder-joint, Fig. 658,—Suprascapular and circumflex nerves of right side, seen from behind. (Testut.) divides into branches to the supraspinatus and infraspinatus, the former turning outward into its muscle, and the latter passing round the great scapular notch, and terminating in the infraspinatus. 4. The posterior thoracic nerve (5. 6.7? c.) {external respiratory nerve of Bell) is formed by the union of three roots, from the fifth, sixth, and seventh nerves respectively. The first two roots pierce the scalenus medius and supply twigs to the ujjper digitations of the serratus magnus. They are afterward joined by the seventh root, which passes in front of the scalenus medius. The nerve descends behind the brachial plexus and the first portion of the axillary artei-y, and runs along the chest wall on the serratus magnus, rather behind the lateral prominence of the ribs, sending a twig to each digitation of that muscle. 5. The scaleni and longus colli are supplied by twigs from the lower three cervical nerves. Branches Given off below the Clavicle. Of these the external and internal anterior thoracic and three subscapular nerves are distributed to parts about the axilla; the rest supply the arm and forearm.