ELEMENTARY TISSUES. 60 from one end of the fibril to the other. Or, to put it in a different way, a fibril looks like a fine thread, upon which are strung large, spindle-shaped beads and small, round beads, regularl}- alternating, and leaving a little of the thread ex- posed between each bead and its two neighbors. These fibrils do not touch each other, but between them, and also separating them from the sarcolemma, is a thin (probably fluid) substance, called sarcoplasm. The fibrils are the contractile por- FiG. 52,—Part of a fibre of cross-striped muscular tissue, sliowing the alternating bands. Fig. 53.—Diagram showing the minute struc- ture of cross-striped muscular tissue. (F. H. G.) tion of the fibre, and, when they contract, their spindles and beads shorten in the line of the long axis of the fibre, and swell out in the lateral direction. This causes a displacement of the sarcoplasm, which, consequently, pushes out the sarcolemma, and thus produces regularly placed protrusions along the surface of the fibre. If the diagram is viewed at a distance (as across the room), which will obscure some of its details, the effect is very like that produced by the examination of a fibre of muscle ^vith a microscope of mod- FiG. 54.—Fragment of a fibre of cross-striped muscular tissue, show- ing fibrils separated at one end by teasing. Fig. .55.—Fragment of a fil)re of cross-striped muscular tis- sue, hardened, showing trans- verse cleavage. (KoUiker.) Fig. .'(i.—Transverse section of muscle-fibre, showing nuclei. (Tes- tut.) erate power—fiiint, longitudinal lines and broad, transverse stripes, the latter sep- arated by light intervals, which are crossed from side to side by a thin, dark streak. The "spindle portion of the fibril is called a sarcous element; the round beads in a single transverse plane constitute what is known as Ivmvse's membrane. In the teasing of a bit of muscular tissue with needles, it happens that many fibres are torn, and the broken ends of the fragments sometimes are frayed out