iliac Internal iliac vein, 434 Psoas magnus muscle. THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. Relations of the Internal Iliac Artery, In front. Peritoneum. Ureter. Inner side. Internal artery. Behind. Internal and external iliac veins. Lunibo-sacral nerve. Sacrum. Variations.—The principal variations found relate to its length, which varies from one to three inches. Sometimes the branches are given off from the vessel without a previous division into an anterior and a posterior trunk. Surgical Anatomy.—Ligation of the internal iliac is sometimes required. The ligation can be made cxtraperitoneally, but is best made by the same trans- peritoneal incision described for ligation of the common iliac. Branches of the internal iliac artery. From the anterior trunk are given off the vesical arteries, the middle hemorrhoidal, the uterine and vaginal in the female, the obturator, internal pudic and sciatic arteries. From the posterior trunk are given off the ileo-lumbar, lateral sacral, and gluteal. The Vesical Arteries are three in number, the superior, middle, and inferior vesical, which supply the bladder, prostate, and seminal vesicles. From the superior vesical a fibrous cord passes upward to the umbilicus. This is the remains of the umbilical artery, which becomes obliterated after birth. The Middle Hemorrhoidal Artery suj)plies the middle portion of the rectum, anastomosing with the superior hemorrhoidal, a branch from the inferior mesen- teric, and with the inferior hemorrhoidal, a branch from the internal pudic. The Uterine Arteries are vessels of good size which run to the neck of the xiterus, ascend along its lateral wall in the folds of the broad ligament to the fundus, and anastomose with the ovarian and vaginal arteries. The Vaginal Arteries are, as a rule, two or three branches which supply the vaginal walls. Surgical Anatomy.—The position of the uterine artery and its relations to the uterus and the broad ligament should be carefully studied in connection with the many operations performed on the uterus and its appendages. The Obturator Artery runs downward and forward to the upper part of the obturator foramen. Here it passes out of the pelvis through an opening in the upper part of the obturator fascia, to be distributed to the upper and inner aspect of the thigh. From the portion of the artery within the pelvis several small branches are given ofF, an iliac branch to the iliac fossa, a vesical branch to the bladder, and a pudic branch, which winds upward along the inner margin of the femoral ring. In the thigh the obturator divides into an internal and an external set of branches. The internal passes downward on the inner surface of the thigh to be distributed to the adductor muscles. The external winds outward behind the femur to be distributed to the external rotators of the thigh. Variations.—The variations of the obturator are frequent, and should be care- fully noted in connection with the study of femoral hernia. In almost one-third of dissections the vessel, instead of arising from the internal iliac, is a branch from the deep epigastric. In some cases it is given off from the external iliac. Surgical Anatomy.—When the obturator is given off from the deep epigastric, it winds downward to reach the obturator foramen. In the majority of cases it is Outer side.