THE EAR. 675 throughout with mucous membrane, whicli covers every object contained in the cavity. The outer wall is composed almost entirely of a broad, fibrous sheet, the mem- hrana tympaid ("membrane of the drum"), and the rim of bone to which it is attached. The membrana tympani has as its basis a firm layer of white fibrous tissue. On its inner side is a lining of mucosa, and on its outer a coat of skin. The membrane is moderately tight everywhere except at the very top, where there is a small area, which is comparatively flaccid. The membrane is not flat, but its centre presents a prominence upon the mesial side. It slopes markedly from above downward and inward. The inner wall of the tympanum has a very uneven surface. The most marked prominence is the tuber cochlece, produced by the protrusion of the first turn of the cochlea. Below this is a round hole, the fenestra rotunda, closed by a fibrous membrane, but for which communication would be established between the tympanum and the scala tympani. The membrane is called the secondary membrane of the tympanum—the second head to the drum. At a little higher level than the tuber is the fenestra ovalis, also stopped with a fibrous membrane, to which is attached an ossicle, presently to be described. Above this oval win- dow is a ridge, which shows the situation of the aqueduct of Fallopius, in which is the facial nerve. At the rear and upper part the tympanum communicates through a large hole with a series of irregular and connected cavities in the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, the most considerable and the nearest of these being the mcistoid AQUEDUCT OF FALLOPIUS Fig. 726.—Coronal section of the risht temporal bone, passing tlirough the Eustachian tube and the mid- dle of the tympanum. Both surfaces of the section are shown, the parts being hinged on the line xx. (Testut.) antrum, the others being the mastoid cells. These cavities are all lined with mucous membrane, continued into them from the tympanum. Lower down on the hind surface is a prominence of bone, called from its shape the pyi'amid, from the apex of which projects the tendon of the stapedius muscle. In front and below, the tympanum slopes into a long channel, the Eustachian tube, the distal end of which opens into the pharynx. Through this tube air is admitted to and expelled from the middle ear, and thus atmospheric pressure on the inner and outer sides of the membrana tympani is equalized. The tube does