669 THE EAR. HATIC CANAL membrane, act as mechanical supports for the hair-cells. Among the cells are twined many ultimate filaments of the auditory nerve. On the free surface of the macula is a plate of gelatinous material con- taining a vast number of crystals of carbonate of lime, called otoliths ("ear-stones"). These, being driven by the waves of endolymph forcibly against the projecting hairlets, produce a much more profound impression than would the waves, if their impact was not thus accentuated. The Semicircular Canals.— From the utricle the three semi- circular canals are given off. their position the mtpcrior, the posterior, and the ex- and posterior extend upward nnd backward, but the are nearly at right Fig. 715.—Jk'inbranons labyrinth of tin.' riyhl ear, Mowed from the outer side. (Testut.) They are named from ternal. The superior planes of their curves angles to one another; the external passes horizontally outward. Each of these canals is dilated at one end into an ampulla (" a wine-jug"). At the other end the superior and jwsterior unite before reaching the utricle, and enter it by a common opening. Thus, there are but five apertui-es in the utricle for the three semicircular canals. In each ampulla is a marked ridge, the septum transversum, due to a thickening of the wall, and this is surmounted by the crista acustica ("auditory crest"), made up of peculiar neuro-cpithelial cells (Fig. 716). From the top of the uppermost of each of these cells projects a very long, rigid, hairlike process, the series of them spreading out widely like an opened fan, and reaching half-way or more to the opposite side of tlie ampulla. Below these hair-cells are sustentacular cells, which support them on every side; and between the cells of both kinds are fila- ments of the auditory nerve, which, though in contact with the cells, have no con- tinuity of tissue with them. The Saccule.—Tiie saccule is much smaller than the utricle, and is situated fiirther forward and a little lower, but very close to it. It has a macula- acustica, which is so like that of the utricle that it needs no separate description. A minute tube, the canalis utriculo-saccularis, is prolonged from the utricle, and a mate to it is given oft' from the saccule. The two unite and form the ductus enrlolymphaticus, a long tul:»e, which ends in a bulbous expansion, the saccus endnb/iirphaticiis. Thus, though the utricle and saccule do not communicate directly, their cavities are connected by means of these ducts. From the saccule another tube gives a communication with the canal of the cochlea. The Canal of the Cochlea' (Fig. 718).—The canal of the cochlea (also called ' In de.scribing the cochlea, it is a matter of convenience to ignore its actual attitude, and to speak as if its summit were upward, its base downward ; and this plan, which is conventional, will be followed here. Fig. 716.—Diagram of auditory epithelium, and the mode of termination of the nerves of the ampuUse. (M. Schuitze.)