THE ORGANS OF RESPIRATION. 758 tile by a continuous sheet of unstriped muscle which it encloses. The bundles of muscular fibres run horizontally, and are attached to the ends of the cartilages where these exist, and to the fibrous wall in the interspaces. In front of the muscle are conspicuous longitudinal bundles of yellow fibrous tissue. The cartilages serve the purpose of preventing the collapse of the trachea from external pressure or from sudden internal suction. The necessities of human respiration require permanence of the lumen of the pipe, a condition which would not be satisfied by a less rigid material than cartilage. The elasticity of the ncl- low fibrous tissue permits the considerable elongation which movements of the head demand, and ensures perfect restoration and even some shortening beyond the average length. The white fibrous tissue gives strength, flexibility, and toughness. The imiscular tissue in the flat, hind portion causes approximation of the ends of the cartilages under nervous stimulus, and diminution of the calibre of the tube. The lining of the trachea is smooth mucous membrane, the epithelium of which is columnar, stratified, and ciliated. The deepest layer of the corium is com- posed almost wliolly of yellow fibrous tissue. The submucous, areolar coat, con- necting the mucosa with the fibi'ous tunic (in which, as has been already said, are the cartilaginous and muscular elements), contains many racemose mucous glands, the ducts of which discharge into the tube. The greater part of these glands are in the spaces between the cai'tilages and in the hind wall. The principal arteries of the trachea are the inferior thyroid, its lymphatics are tributaries of the bronchial and deep cervical nodes, and its nerve-supply is derived from the pneumogastric and great sympathetic. The trachea lies in the midst of an abundant mass of areolar tissue, which is so loose as to permit free movement up, down, and horizontally. THE BRONCHI. The lower end of the trachea bifurcates laterally into the bronchi (Fig. 817), which strangely get their name from the Greek word for " throat." They pass to the right and left lungs respectively. In structure and general form they are exact continuations of the trachea, with convex front and sides, which are stiffened with cartilaginous bands embedded in fibrous tissues, a flat back, which is fibrous and muscular, and a lining of mucous membrane, whose epithelium is cylindrical, ciliated, and in layers. The right bronchus is the shorter (a scant inch), wider inch), and more nearly horizontal; the left bronchus is the longer (about two inches), narrower (f inch), and more nearly vertical. They are sup- plied by the bronchial arteries, and by nerves from the pulmonary plexus. THE BRONCHIA. The air-ducts, leading from a bronchus into the depths of the lung, are called bronchia, bronchial tubes, or bronchioles (Fig. 817). The right bronchus gives three branches to its lung, the left only two. The tubes divide progressively, (sometimes dichotomously, sometimes otherwise), into smaller tubes down to the infundibula, the ducts of which are about inch in diameter. Although the bronchioles are continuous with the bronchi, as the latter are with the trachea, they have a different shape—the bronchi and windpipe being flat behind, all the other tubes perfectly cylindrical. In other words, the outline of a transverse section of every pipe concealed within the lung is circular, while that of those which are outside of the lung is convex only in front and at the sides. The bronchioles have three coats—mucous, muscular, and fibrous. The mucous membrane is everywhere provided with ciliated epithelium, the lashes of which beat always toward the larger tubes, thus preventing an accumulation of mucus in the air-vesicles. Glands are numerous, except in the very small tubes. The muscle fibres of the middle coat are transversely arranged, and are relatively