ELEMENTARY TISSUES. 68 Serous membranes may be divided into tolerably distinct classes, as follows : 1. Serous membranes proper. 2. The lining membrane of the vascular system. 3. The lining membrane of certain cavities in sustentacular tissues. 4. The lining membrane of the cavity of the cerebro-sjjinal axis. 1. Serous Membranes Proper. Under this head are included the various membranes M'hich result from the division of the original serous membrane lining the thoracico-abdominal cavity (Fig. 71). These are derived from the single sac by constriction, the thoracic first Tuniese Vaginales Testmi. Fig. 71.—Diagram showing formation of several serous sacs from the one original sac. (After Gegenhauer.) being separated from the abdominal, and then subdivisions of each of these making three distinct sacs of the upper grand division—the two pleurte and the pericar- dium—and three of the lower grand division—the peritoneum and the two vaginal tunics. They are called serous membranes proper, because they present, to an extent which the others do not, the features which have been mentioned as cha- racterizing this class of structures. The pleurae are the serous covering of the lungs; the pericardium encloses the heart; the peritoneum lines the abdominal cavity and clothes its contained viscera; and the vaginal tunics perform a similar service for the two chambers of the scrotum and the testicles, to which they give lodgement. These serous membranes will be treated of in detail in connection with the organs to which they are respectively related. 2. The Lining Membrane of the Vascular System. This is the internal coat of the heart and vessels, known also as the tunica intima. It bears a close resemblance to the proper serous membranes in structure and appearance. Its power of forming a fluid like that of the great serous sacs is not to be doubted, but is not demonstrable, as the fluid must mingle with the current of blood or lymph as soon as it is formed. One at all acquainted with the circumstances favoring the coagulation of the blood, and the necessity of having it flow freely through the microscopic tubes which we call cajiillaries, would feel warranted in the declaration that no other membrane than a serous would be practicable as a lining to the blood-vessels and lympliatics. If a mucous membrane were emjjloyed for the purpose, the small vessels would