THE LIVER. 747 Size and Weight of the Liver.—The adult liver measures 10 or 12 inches from end to end, 6 or 7 inches fore-and-aft, 3 or 4 vertically in the thickest part. Its weight is from three to four pounds. Its weight relatively to that of the entire body varies enormously at different periods, being one-third when the enil)ryo is two months old, and one thirty-sixth or less in middle life. It diminishes in size and weight as old age creeps on. It is brownish-red in color, often presenting a mottled appearance. It is firm to the touch, but rather friable ; and, when torn across, the exposed surface is seen to be distinctly granular on account of the pi'csence everywhere of the lobules. Situation of the Liver (Fig. 806).—The position of the liver in the right hypo- chondriac, e2)igastrie, and left hypochondriac regions is not entirely unchangeable, but is modified by a number of circumstances, particularly by respiration, the attitude of the body, the distension or emptiness of stomach and colon, and the tightness of the clothing of the thorax. To these influences, which are not pathological, may be added various others, which result from disease. In forced inspiration the dome of the right lobe may be driven down to the level of the ninth thoracic vertebra ; in forced expiration it may rise as high as the upper border of the eighth thoracic vertebra. If a knife were to be inserted horizon- tally into the thorax on the plane of the fourth costo-chondro-sternal junction, it would be likely to shave the summit of the hepatic dome. This gives one a good idea of the greatness of the encroachment of the abdomen upon the space whi(^h the lower margins of the thoracic cage suggest to the casual observer as belong- ing to the chest cavity. Relations of the Liver.—The liver is in relation above with the diaphragm, which separates it from the heart and lungs, the first of these organs making its position apparent by a shallow depression on the top of the left lobe, and the others, more yielding in their nature, indicating their location by the great bulges which they permit the liver to make into their under surfaces. Its upper surface is also in contact witli the anterior wall of the al)domen above a line drawn from the eighth costal cartilage on the right to the middle of the seventh on the left ; for the upper surface slopes markedly forward and downward, and justifies the name which is sometimes given it—the antero-sirjierior surface. The Spigelian lobe lies against the right cms of the dia])]iragm, opposite the tenth and eleventh thoracic vertebrpe. The relations of the other portions of the liver with contiguous