THE BONES. 150 Ossification (Fig;. 168) takes place in cartilage from a centre for each of the three parts, ilium, ischium, and os pubis. A secondary centre appears later in the Y-shaped cartilage, where they meet in the acetabulum. This fuses with and joins together the three parts from the sixteenth to the twentieth year. Secondary nuclei appear for the iliac crest, the anterior inferior spine, the ischial tuberosity, and the pubic crest from the fifteenth year on, and unite with the main bone about the twentieth year. THE PELVIS. The pelvis (Figs. 169, 170), whose constituent parts, the two hip-bones, con- nected behind by the sacrum and coccyx, have already been described, is divided into two ])arts by a plane passing through the sacral promontory behind, the ilio- pectineal lines laterally, and the pubic crests in front. The part above this plane, composed of the ilia, belongs to the abdominal cavity, but is called the false pelvis. The limiting line is called the brim, and the included heart-shaped space the inlet of the lower part, or true pelvis. The outlet, or lower circum- FiG. 169.—The planes of the pelvis. (Testut.) ference of the pelvic cavity, presents three prominences—the ischial tuberosities laterally and the coccyx behind—separated by three notches, the pubic arch in front and the two sciatic notches behind. The pubic arch is the angular space in front beneath the symphysis and bounded by the combined rami of the ischia and ossa pubis. The sciatic notches are bridged across and converted into fora- mina by the sacro-sciatic ligaments, which bound the outlet of the pelvis as well as the perineum dorso-laterally. The cavity of the pelvis is shallow (1^2 inches) in front, where it is bounded by the os pubis, and deepest (5-5-|- inches) behind, where the curved sacrum and coccyx form its bony wall. The ischia form the lateral walls. The axis of the pelvis, or the line drawn through the centres of the j^lanes of the inlet, cavity, and outlet of the pelvis, is curved Avith its concavity forward. The position of the pelvis in the erect attitude of the body is so tilted or inclined that the plane of the inlet forms an angle of 50° to 60° with the hori- zon, so that a line drawn at right angles to the centre of the plane of the inlet, if prolonged upward, would about meet the umbilicus. Furthermore, the base of the sacrum is raised about 3^ inches above the upper margin of tlie symphysis pubis, and the tip of the coccyx is ^1 inch above the lower end of the symphysis. The plane of the outlet is more nearly horizontal, forming an