THE FASCIA. 352 under surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle. Thus it may be said that the fascia splits at the hyoid, and encloses between its two lamellte a space, which is triangu- lar in vertical section, and forms a chamber occupied by the submaxillary salivary gland. Below and in the middle line in front the fascia separates into two layers, one going to the anterior, the other to the posterior border of the top of the manu- brium (Fig. 410). From the front of the portion of the fascia which forms a sheath for the sterno-mastoid, and where it is continuous with the masseteric fascia, a prolongation is given oif forward and inward, is attached to the angle of the lower jaw, passes behind the parotid gland, and ends by insertion into the styloid process of the temporal, forming thus the stylo-mandibular ligament. The Middle Cervical Fascia. The middle portion of the cervical fascia—that is, the portion between the superficial and deep layers—lies close behind the front part of the outer layer (Figs. 410, 411), arching between the omo-hyoids of the two sides, forming a sheath for each of them, and extends vertically from the hyoid to the sternum, and laterally from one scaj^ula to the other, its side borders corresponding with the omo-hyoids. The part which ensheathes these muscles sends from each a band down to the sternum and the cartilage of the first rib. From the point where the fascia is attached to the middle line of the sternum a prolonga- LEFT BRftCHIO- EPHALIC VEIN TO VERTEBRAL COLUMN TO PERICARDIUM Fig. 410.—The cervical fascia between the hyoid and sternum. (Testut.) Fig. 411.—The cervical fascia in the clavicular region. (Testut.) tion of it encircles the left brachio-cephalic vein (Fig. 410), and then passes down into the thorax and blends with the pericardium. On each side it is fastened to the clavicle, gives off expansions which encase the subclavian vein, and then are attached to the first rib and become continuous with the neighboring fascise (Fig. 411). A continuation of the middle layer enters into the formation of the sheath of the axillary vessels and nerves. Prolongations also are sent inward and furnish the neck muscles with sheaths ; for the most part, however, these processes have not the firmness of the main layer, but are areolar in character. The Inner Cervical Fascia. The inner or deep layer of the cervical fascia, known also as the prevertebral, is continuous with the middle portion at the sheaths of the carotid arteries and internal jugular veins. It is attached above to the basilar process of the occipital bone, at "the sides to the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrte, and below