THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK AND HEAD. 205 Troehoides, diarthrosis rotatoria, lateral ginglymus, or pivot joint is a joint between a pivot and a ring, as in the radio-ulnar and atlanto-axial articulations, which allows only of rotation. Kinds of Movement. The various kinds of movement depend on the shape of the articulating sur- faces, and are limited by the connecting ligaments and to a less extent by the surrounding soft parts. The different kinds of movement are often combined and merged into one another in one joint. Rotation is the movement of a bone about some longitudinal axis, often its own axis, without much change of position. Angular movement increases or decreases the angle between two bones. When this movement takes place around a transverse axis, it is called flexion and exten- sion, according as the angle is increased or diminished. When it takes place toward or from the median jilane of the body, the middle finger of the hand, or the second toe of the foot, it is called adduction and abduction respectively. Circumduction is a combination of the four angular movements, so that the moving bone describes a cone-like figure, with the apex at the joint, the base at its distal end. Gliding is the simplest form of movement, and consists of a simple sliding or displacement without marked angular or rotatory motion. It is common to all diarthrodial joints, and is the only movement between the plane surfaces of arthrodial joints. Morphologically, many ligaments are formed by the metamoi'phosis or regres- sion of muscles, due to loss of function, or by the migration of muscles, or by the degeneration of osseous and cartilaginous tissue. This is shown by a comparative study of vertebrate ligaments, muscles, and bones; and atavistic examples are occasionally met with in the human subject. The ligaments are never strained by muscles tending to pull the bones apart, for, on tlie contrary, the action of the muscles braces tlie bones firmly together. Many long muscles passing over two or more joints co-ordinate their movements, and so economize power. Some long muscles act as elastic ligaments, often diffusing the movement produced by the short muscles over more than one joint. Two or more joints are sometimes combined, and thus acquire strength, security, and a variety of motions, as in the wrist and ankle. THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK AND HEAD. 1. The Articulations of the Vertebral Column. There are two sets of articulations between the movable vertebras—those between the bodies and those between the articular processes. These parts are connected together by ligaments ; but intermediate ligaments, not connecting parts in contact, help to limit the movements of the spine and to complete the spinal canal. The articulations between the bodies of the vertebrae (Figs. 226, 230) are amphiarthrodial. The following ligaments bind them together: The intervertehral discs are tough, elastic, but compressible plates, which are placed between and firmly unite the vertebral bodies from the axis to the coccyx; but in the sacrum and coccyx they are ossified on the surface or throughout. They are firmly attached to the opposed surfaces of the bodies, these surfaces being covered by a thin layer of cartilage, except near their margins. Their shape and size are the same as those of the surfaces of the bodies they connect. They are thinnest between the second and third cervical (the weakest sjjot in the cervical column), and thickest and largest in the lumbar region. In the cervical and lumbar regions they are thicker in front than behind, and thus cause the