550 THE CEBEBBO-SPINAL AXIS. side, is an oval area, which indicates the destination of the part of the ventral pyramid which has crossed the middle line in the process of decussation. This series of sections clearly reveals the fact that, progressively from above downward, there is a diminution in the amount of gray material, and a drawing together of its scattered masses. Proceeding in the other direction—-from below upward—we see that there is an addition of nuclei, a bi'eaking up and dispersion of the gray mass of the lowest level, and that this scattering is caused by the oblique crossing from one side to the other of motor and sensory bundles. Examining the series of sections in reversed order, it is found that, at the first step, the heads of the ventral columns are amputated by the great bundles of fibres from the decussating pyramids, and the dorsal horns have had added to them the nuclei graciles. Next, the nuclei cuneati appear, and large fasciculi from them and the nuclei graciles sweep forward and inward, cross their opposite fellows at the middle line, and tui'n up at the back of the pyramids, forming the fillets. This performance results in the decapitation of the dorsal horns, just as the pyramidal bundles cut off the heads of the ventral horns. The succeeding step marks more emphatically the separa- tion of the various heads from their respective bases, and introduces tlie olive. At last, the lateral spreading of the dorsal portion throws the hind parts outward, brings the cavity and the bases of the horns to the rear, while the nuclei graciles disappear. What has before been called the base of the ventral horn now assumes the r6le of the hypoglossal nucleus, and the head of this horn has become the accessory hypoglossal nucleus and the nucleus ambiguus. At several points in the description of the lower segments of the brain, it has been necessary to refer to the lemniscus or fillet, but a complete account of its course could not be appreciated until the structures of which it formed a part were measurably understood. Now, however, it may be considered with profit. The Lemniscus. The lemniscus (" the fillet") (Figs. 605-607) is a band, extending from the middle horizontal plane of the oblongata to the level of the quadrigemina. Its principal portion originates in the nuclei gracilis and cuneatus, which are situated in the dorsal part of the oblongata, and are the terminal stations of the funiculi gracilis and cuneatus, whicli are the upward prolongations of the dorsal tracts of the cord. It begins by running nearly horizontally forward and inward across the middle line of the oblongata, decussating with its opposite fellow above the plane of the pyramidal decussation, and reaching the dorsal surface of the pyramid. At this point it bends upward, and courses along close to the pyramid, being joined in this region by the fibres of the ascending lateral tract (Growers) of the cord, which has come up through the lateral tract of the oblongata and its lateral nucleus (Rolando). Thus it is seen that the lemniscus embraces all of the sensory fibres which have come from the cord. Passing into the pons, the lemniscus occupies the ventral stratum of the dor- sal part, enters the mesencephalon, where a portion ajjpears on the surface of the tegmentum, and almost all of it courses dorso-ventrally through this segment of the brain to the subthalamic region. There its fibres divide into two sets, one of which runs through the dorsal limb of the internal capsule, and thence passes to the cortex of the central area; while the second set, of greater size, enters the thalamus, and ends tlicre in arborizations around the cells—from which last, however, other fibres run to the gyri around the central fissure, like the first group. The essential difference between the two sets is that one goes directly, the other through a thalamic interruption, to the sensori-motor area of the cerebral cortex. The Fourth Ventricle. We have now studied separately the various structures enclosing the part of the encephalic cavity which is known as the fourth ventricle, and it will be well