THE FIFTH OR TRIFACIAL NERVE. 577 glia connected with the fifth nerve—the ophthahnic, s[)lienopahvtine, otic, and sub- maxillary. Each of these has three roots, derived from motor, sensory, and sympathetic nerves respectively, and a varying number of branches of distriliu- tion. Their cells are multipolar, thus resembling the cells of sympathetic ganglia, and diifering from those of the ganglia of the posterior spinal nerve-roots and Gasserian ganglion. The Ophthalmic, Ciliary, or Lenticular Ganglion (Fig. 635).—The ciliary gan- glion is a small reddish body about the size of a large pin-head (one-twelfth of an inch in long diameter), compressed laterally, and quadrilateral in shape, present- ing four angles. It lies at the back of the orbit, between the external rectus and. the optic nerve, and is often in contact with the ophthalmic artery. Its long (sensory) root is derived from the nasal nerve, entering its supero- posterior angle. Often incorporated witli this or entering the ganglion by its side is the sympathetic root, derived from the cavernous plexus ; and its motor root is a short, comparatively thick olfset from the branch of the third nerve to the inferior oblique, which enters the postero-inferior angle of the ganglion. Fig. 639.—Maxillary division of the trifacial nerve and Meckel's ganglion. (Testut.) From the anterior angles of the ganglion spring its brandies of distribution called the ahort ciliary nerves. There are at first six to eight of them, arranged in two groups, superior and inferior, the inferior group being joined by the long ciliary nerves from tlie nasal. Tliey pass along the upper and lower surfaces of the optic nerve, subdividing until about twelve to eighteen fine filaments reach the sclerotic, and pierce it in a circle round the optic nerve. They sup])ly nerves of ordinary sensation and trophic nerves to the eyeljall (derived from the nasal), motor nerves to the ciliary muscle and spliincter iridis (derived from the oculo- motor), and sympathetic nerves to the dilatator fibres of the iris. The Second or Maxillary Division of the Fifth Nerve (Fig. 639).—The maxillary (superior maxillary) verve is intermediate in size and position between the two other divisions of the fifth nerve, and like the first is purely sensory. After a 37