109 THE AUDITORY ORGAN. WALL OF AFTER-BRAIN RECESSUS LAEYHINTHI VESICLE OF LABYRINTH GANGLION COCHLEARE COCHLEAR PORTION OF LABYRINTH near the auditory pit, and had migrated into the subjacent mesenchyme. A con- striction now begins to form in the inner wall of the sac (Fig. 129), dividing it into an upper and a lower portion ; and from the upper portion two flat hollow disc- like outgrowths develop, one of which lies in a horizontal plane, while the other is directed vertically, but is bent so that the anterior half of it lies al- most at right angles with the posterior. These are the anlagen of the semicir- cular canals (Fig. 130), which are finally formed from the edges of the discs, the central portion of the horizontal disc and of each half of the vertical one disap- pearing, so that three canals are formed, each opening at both extremities into the upper portion of the auditory sac. At one end of each canal a widening occurs, and, from the mode of devel- opment just outlined, it will be seen that the two vertical canals Avill be united together at one end to form a common canal before opening into the sac (Fig. 131). The constriction of the wall of the sac deepens gradually, until finally the upper portion, or utriculus, communicates with the lower portion, or sacculus, only by a slender canal, which represents that portion of the original sac with which the ductus endolymphaticus communicates. While these processes have been going on, a second constriction has formed between the cochlear anlage and the sacculus, whereby the connection of these two parts is also reduced to a slender canal, the canalis reuniens. In correspondence with this division of the original sac a division of the auditory ganglion also occurs, one portion of it, the vestibular Fig. 128.—Section through the auditory vesicle of a sheep embryo. (Hertwig, after Boettcher.) ganglion, being in relation to the sensory epithelium of the utriculus, sacculus, and semicircular canals, while the other is drawn out into an elongated band, the spiral or cochlear ganglion, which follows the coils into which the cochlea becomes thrown, and stands in relation to the organ of Corti, Avhich develops from the cochlear epithelinm. In the mean time, a condensation of the mesenchyme surrounding each audi-