287 THE MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LLMB. In the Back Part of the Forearm. Anconeus. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. Extensor communis digitorum. Extensor brevis pollicis. Extensor minimi digiti. Extensor longus pollicis. Extensor carpi ulnaris. Extensor indicis. Supinator. In the Thenar Eminence. Abductor j)ollicis. Flexor brevis pollicis. Flexor ossis metacarpi pollicis. Adductor pollicis. In the Hypothenar Eminence. Abductor minimi digiti. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Flexor ossis metacarpi minimi Palmaris brevis. digiti. In the Palm of the Hand between the Eminences. Lumbricales. Interossei palmares. Interossei dorsales. The student is advised to make other classifications of the muscles movinor tlie limbs, in order to obtain as complete a practical knowledge of them as pos- sible. For example, let him group the muscles according to the parts which they connect, under some such headings as the following : Connecting the head, neck, and (or) trunk with the shoulder. Connecting the trunk with the arm. Connecting the shoulder with the arm. Connecting the shoulder with the forearm. Connecting the arm with the forearm. Connecting the bones of the forearm. Connectin": the arm with the hand. Connecting the forearm with the hand. Connecting the parts of the hand with each other. Again, let him enumerate the muscles which would be cut by plane sections mnde transversely throur/h the limb at diiferent levels, as, for example, at the mid- dle of the arm, in the lower third of the arm, in the upper quarter of the fore- arm, and so on. Tlie more ways ho adopts for considering the subject, the more exact, permanent, and usable will be his knowledge. THE MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. In making a physiological classification of the muscles of the lower limb, we notice at the outset that there is a great difference between the mobility of the first segment of the upper limb and that of its homologue in the lower : the shoulder is freely movable, the hip is almost immovably fixed. There is no group of muscles devoted to moving the pelvic girdle at all comparable with those concerned in the movements of the shoulder. The great muscles of the alxlominal wall lift the front of the pelvis ; but this is accompanied to no appre- ciable extent by movement of the hip-bones at their articulations with the sac- rum, but by the curving of the vertebral column. The very inconstant psoas parvus is sometimes asserted to flex the pelvis; but this may well be questioned.