THE EYE. 685 series of radial thickenings or ridges, the (nl'mry -procesiHes (Fig. 735), about seventy in number, which, rising gradually from the anterior limit of the choroid, reach their greatest elevation a little behind the corneo-scleral junction, where they terminate abruptly in a series of ])rominences, the corona ci/iaris. Superficial to these lies the ciliary muscle, containing both radiating and circular fibres. The former arise from the deep surface of the sclerotic near the cornea, where they are attached to the bundles of the membrane of Descemet already referred to. Extending backward they are inserted into the outer surface of the ciliary body and choroid. The circular fibres are placed on the deep surface of the radiating portion, and form a muscular ring around the circumference of the iris. When the ciliary muscle contracts, it draws forward the choroid and ciliary body, thus relaxing the suspensory ligament, which allows the lens to become more convex for near accommodation. The Iris (Figs. 734, 735). The iris is the colored membrane, which hangs like a screen in the aqueous chamber behind the cornea. In its centre is the aperture called the pupil, which, through the contractile power of the iris, varies in size and is thus adapted to regulate the amount of light admitted to the retina. At its circumference the iris is continuous with the ciliary body, and, through the ligamentum pectinatum iridis, with the cornea also. Faint, wavy lines on its anterior surface, converging ANTERIOR CILIARY ARTERIES CHOROID ANTERIOR CILIARY ARTERIES Fig. 73-1.—Iris, front view. (Testut.) toward the pupil, mark the situation of subjacent blood-vessels. Its posterior surface is covered by a layer of dark pigmented e])itlielium, which belongs morphologically to the retina. Its stroma is formed of delicate connective tissue, containing a varial)le number of pigmented cells, and carrying numerous vessels and nerves. The color of the iris depends partly on the pigment cells of the stroma, and partly on the retinal layer behind. When the pigment is abundant in the stromal cells, it controls the color,—some shade of gray, brown, or black ; but when it is scanty or absent, that of the retinal cells behind showing thnnigh the stroma imparts to the iris one of the various shades of blue.