608 THE NERVES. 1. The External Anterior Thoracic Nerve (6. 7. c.) springs from the outer cord, pierces the costo-coracoid membrane above the pectoralis minor, and supplies the pectoralis major. 2. The Internal Anterior Thoracic Nerve (8. c, 1. th.) is derived from the inner cord. It passes forward between the axillary artery and vein, and enters the deep surface of the pectoralis minor. After supplying this muscle, it pierces it to reach the pectoralis major, in which it ends. Thus the pectoralis major is sup- plied by two nerves. These two nerves are usually united by a loop which crosses in front of the axillary artery. 3. The Subscapular Nerves supply the muscles which form the posterior axillary wall, and are all branches of the posterior cord. The upjyer subscapular (6. 6. c), sometimes represented by two branches, lies high in the axilla. It is very short and plunges at once into the upper part of the subscapularis. The middle or long subscapular nerve (7. c.) accompanies the subscapular artery and supplies the latissimus. The lower subscapular nerve (5. 6. c.) sends twigs to the lower part of the subscapularis muscle and ends in the teres major. Terminal or Long Branches.—The outer cord divides into the musculo- cutaneous and outer head of the median; the inner cord into the small internal cutaneous, internal cutaneous, ulnar and inner head of the median, and the poste- rior cord into the circumflex and musculo-spiral. These branches are arranged around the third part of the axillary artery in the same manner as their parent cords, except that the small internal cutaneous nerve is separated from the artery by the axillary vein, and the internal cutaneous nerve and inner head of the median lie in front of the vessel. 4. The Musculo-cutaneous Nerve. The musculo-cutaneous nerve (5. 6. c.) (Figs. 659, 666, 667), arising from the outer cord of the plexus, lies first on the outer side of the axillary and after- ward of the brachial artery. It sends some fibres to the coraco-brachialis, and its main trunk perforates that muscle in a downward and outward direction near the lower border of the axilla. Passing obliquely across the arm between the biceps and brachialis anterior it gives branches to both these muscles, and reaches the surface at the outer border of the biceps a little above the bend of the elbow. Here it perforates the deep fascia, and divides into an anterior and a posterior division, which supply the skin on the anterior and posterior aspects of the radial side of the forearm. Of these the anterior division is large, and reaches as far down as the thenar eminence ; the posterior division is shorter and only reaches as low as the wrist. Both divisions communicate with the radial nerve. At the bend of the elbow the nerve is crossed by the median cephalic vein. 5. The Median Nerve. The median nerve (6. 7. 8. c, 1. th.) (Figs. 659, 660, 661, 663, 666, 667) arises by two heads, one from the inner and one from the outer cord. The inner head crosses in front of the third part of the axillary artery to join the outer head, and the resulting nerve runs down the arm on tlie outer side of the axillary and brachial arteries, and slightly under cover of the biceps. Near the middle of the humerus it crosses in front of the brachial artery to reach its inner side, which it keeps till the vessel bifurcates. It then passes between the two heads of the pronator teres, crossing the ulnar artery but separated from the vessel by the ulnar head of the muscle, and courses down the middle of the forearm^ on the flexor profundus digitorum under the flexor sublimis. At the wrist it is found beneath the deep fascia between the flexor sublimis and flexor carpi radialis and