648 THE NERVES. It contains no ganglia. In front of the sacrum it splits into two lateral portions, which join the pelvic plexuses. The Pelvic Plexus.—Lying on each side of the rectum and bladder in the male, and of the rectum, vagina, and bladder in the female, is a network, rich in ganglia where the fibres interlace, formed by the continuation of the hypogastric plexus, offsets fi-om the upper sacral ganglia, and branches from the second, third, and fourth sacral nerves. This is the inferim- hypogastrie or j^dvic plexus. From this branches are distributed to the pelvic viscera, which at first follow the branches of the internal iliac artery, their terminal twigs leaving the vessels and entering the substance of the organs. Thus the following secondary plexuses are formed, viz : The Jieinorj-Jioidal plexus, derived from the upper pai't of the pelvic plexus, accompanies the middle hemorrhoidal artery and joins with the plexus on the superior hemorrhoidal vessels in supplying the rectal wall. The vesical plexus is a close network, rich in sjiinal fibres, which is best marked over the sides and base of the bladder. It gives off plexuses to the vasa deferentia and vesiculse seminales, of which the former join the spermatic plexuses and the latter receive communications from the prostatic plexus. The prostatic plexus, lying between the prostate and levator ani, sends fibres backward to join the plexuses on the vesiculae seminales and forward through the triangular ligament to the corpus cavernosum. The vaginal plexus is largely composed of spinal nerves. It supplies the mucous membrane and erectile tissues of the vagina, and sends twigs to the clitoris. The uterine 'plexus is mainly derived from the pelvic continuation of the hypo- gastric plexus and third and fourth sacral nerves. It enters the broad ligament, communicates there with the ovarian plexus, and is mainly distributed over the neck and lower part of the body of the uterus. It contains numerous ganglia. The apparent hypertrophy of these nerves in pregnancy is due to thickening of their fibrous sheaths. The Sacral Portion of the Gangliated Cord. In the pelvis the sympathetic trunks, much diminished in size, descend on the inner sides of the anterior sacral foramina, a ganglion usually appearing for each of the four upper sacral nerves. In front of the coccyx the two cords unite in one ganglion, called the ganglion, impar, which is usually connected with both coccygeal nerves. Short rami communicantcs connect each of these ganglia with one or more of the sacral nerves, and rami efferentes join the pelvic plexus, while others form a plexus on the middle sacral artery or pass to the sacrum and coccyx and their liga- ments. Through the pelvic plexus the pelvic viscera are supplied with motor, vasomotor, and secretory fibres. The Prevertebral Plexuses of the Sympathetic.—These plexuses are named respectively the cardiac, solar, hypogastric, and pelvic. Each plexus is single and median, and is composed of nerves derived from both sympathetic trunks, with others derived from the cerebro-spinal nerves. Ganglia arc developed in their meshes and from them subsidiary plexuses are formed. Tlie Cardiac Plexus.—Bena&ih and "behind the aortic arch is a meshwork of nerve-fibres, which for convenience of description is divided into a superficial and a deep portion, though the two form one continuous plexus. _ The nerves enter- ing into this plexus are the superior and inferior cervical cardiac branches of the vagi, the thoracic cardiac branches of the same nerves, and the superior, middle, and inferior cardiac branches of the sympathetic. Of these nerves the superior cardiac branch of the left sympathetic trunk, and the lower cervical cardiac branch of the left pneumogastric form, in the concavity of the aortic arch, the superficial cardiac plexus. In its meshes is a small ganglion,