THE BLOOD-VASCULAB SYSTEM. 480 The Lateral Sacral Veins.—These parietal tributaries also form a plexus, the merat j^lexus, over the front of the sacrum, by anastomoses with one another and with the middle sacral veins. This jilexus communicates with the veins of the spine through the anterior sacral foramina. The Dorsal Vein of the Penis (Fig. 509), beginning in a plexiform circle of veins around the corona glandis, passes backward in the median dorsal groove of tlie penis, between tlie two dorsal arteries. At the root of the penis it continues backward through the suspensory ligament, and then through the triangular ligament, whereujjon it divides into two lateral branches, which enter the prostatic plexus. It receives branches from the substance and surface of the penis. In front of the triangular ligament it communicates with the internal pudic veins. The dorsal vein may commence as two lateral branches in front, which unite at a variable distance from the root of the penis. The Gluteal, Sciatic, Obturator, and Internal Pudic Veins, save for the exception above noted in the case of the internal pudic vein, correspond with the arteries- and arterial branches which they ac- company. The Prostatic Plexus surrounds the prostate, especially at its base, sides, and in front, and lies beneath the slieath derived from the recto- vesical fascia. Besides the veins of the prostate it receives the dorsal vein of the penis in front, and com- municates with the vesical and hemorrhoidal plexuses. It is frequently much enlarged and varicose in old men, and often contains phleboliths or vein stones. The Vesical Plexus surrounds the bladder beneath its peritoneal coat. It is particularly develo])ed at the base and neck of the organ, where it communicates with the hemorrlioidal plexus, and with the prostatic plexus in the male, the vaginal plexus in the female. The prostatic and vesical plexuses open into the internal iliac veins by vessels passing from their lateral aspect. An abundant plexus of veins is often met with on the anterior surface of the bladder on open- ing that organ by the suprapubic incision. The Vaginal Plexus surrounds the lower part of the vagina, and communicates with the vesical and hemorrhoidal plexuses and with the veins of the uterus. The Uterine Plexus empties in part through the ovarian veins, and in j^art through the veins which accompany the uterine arteries. It is much enlarged during pi'egnancy. The Hemorrhoidal Plexus lies beneath the mucous membrane of the lower part of the rectum. It communicates with the plexuses in front of it, and empties through the superior, middle and inferior liemorrhoidal veins, which accompany the arteries of the same name. As the superior hemorrhoidal vein is a tributary of the poi'tal system through the inferior mesenteric vein, and the other hemorrhoidal veins enter the internal iliac vein, a free anastomosis is thus established between the two SUPERFICIAL DORSAL VEIN EXTERNAL PUDIC VEIN OBTURATOR VEIN Fw. .',09.—Veins of the penis. (Testut.)