THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 748 Five Fissures Five Lobes Five Sets of Vessels Five Ligaments on hind surface. Peritoneal Folds. viscera are so clearly indicated in the pictures that it is unnecessary to recapitu- late them. Partial Summary.—Some of the principal facts of gross, hepatic anatomy may be tabulated for mnemonic purposes as follows : 'Umbilical Fissure ^ Gall-bladder Fissure > on under surface. Portal, or Transverse Fissure j I Ductus-venosus Fissure I^Vena-cava Fissure fLeft. Right, subdivided into Quadrate 1 , r. 1 i )• on under surface. Caudate j Spigelian on hind surface. ''Branches of Portal Vein. Branches of Hepatic Artery. Radicles of Hepatic Veins. Bile Ducts. Lymphatics. Suspensory, Broad, or Falciform. Coronary. Right Lateral, or Right Triangular. ] Left Lateral, or Left Triangular. 1^Round—obliterated Umbilical Vein. THE PERITONEUM. In the preceding descriptions of the abdominal digestive organs it has been necessary to make frequent reference to their serous coat. In every case this covering is a part of the peritoneum ; and, although one organ which is com- pletely invested, and several M'hich are only partly clothed by it, are yet to be con- sidered, it seems best at this stage to present an account of this great mem- brane as a whole. It may be well for the student to refresh his memory by referring to what is said of serous membranes in general on page 66, and of the development of the intestines on page 88. The peritoneum is by far the most extensive and most complicated of the serous membranes. Its extreme complexity is due to changes in the position of the viscera in their development, and to obliterations which have taken ]>lace on account of the adhesion of certain apposed surfaces. It does not meet all of the requirements of a typical serous membrane, because in females it is not a shut sac, there being a continuity of its surface and that of the mucous membrane lining the oviduct, and, consequently, a communication between its cavity and the surface of the body. Between it and the parietal structures which it lines is a variable amount of areolar tissue called subperitoneal, sometimes containing fat-cells. This permits a degree of motion of the peritoneum upon subjacent parts. The connection between the serosa and its viscera is usually much closer. The viscera are connected to the abdominal parietes and to each other by folds of peritoneum. These have received various names, as mesenteries, omenta, and ligaments. Mesenteries. A mesentery is a double fold of peritoneum, enclosing the vessels, nerves, etc., devoted to a portion of intestine. Specifically, and always when used alone, the name refers to the mesentery of the small intestine, described on page 718 ; but the term is often employed in a larger and generic sense to indicate a similarly