742 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. the middle line and the left abdominal wall. This surface, consequently, is markedly convex on the right, slightly concave near the middle of the body, where the heart causes a sagging of the diaphragm, and moderately convex at the left. It is covered with serous membrane—a reflection of the peritoneum —excepting a very narrow strip running from before backward, and marking the line along Avhich the membrane from the right side and that from the left meet and turn upward, and form the suspensory ligament, which thus divides the upper surface into two very unequal parts, a right lobe of extensive area, and a left lobe, which is much smaller. This division of the liver into right and left portions is observed on the hind and under surfaces also, and is made by a con- tinuation upon them of the line marked out by the suspensory ligament. Thus, if a cord is carried directly around the organ in this plane, it will nearly coincide on the under surface with the umbilical fissure, and on the hind surface with the ductus-venosus fissure. On these surfaces, however, all of the right portion is not called right lobe, for certain subdivisions are recognized, upon each of which distinctive titles have been bestowed. The Under Surface (Fig. 802) is very irregular and unevenly concave. It is divided into right and left portions by a groove, which, beginning at a notch in the anterior border, runs backward on a line substantially beneath the attachment BIGHT LOBe Fig. 802.—The liver, lower surface. (Drawn from the His cast. F. H. G.) of the suspensory ligament on the upper surface. This groove gives lodgment to the shriveled remains of the umbilical vein—an important fa3tal structure—from which fact it is named the umbilical fissure. The part of the surface at the left of this crease is the left lobe; that at the right is subdivided into three lobes, by two grooves. Near the hind edge of this surface is a broad gutter, which runs later- ally from and at a right angle to the umbilical fissure; and from the right end of this a wide, shallow depression runs to the anterior border, parallel to the umbilical fissure. The first of these is called the transverse fissure, from its lateral direction ; the portal fissure, from its being the opening or doorway at Avhich vessels, ducts, and nerves pass into and out of the viscus ; and sometimes the hilum., a name often given to similar inlets in other glands. The second groove is named the gall-bladder fissure, from the reservoir of the bile, which occupies it. Between the umbilical fissure at the left, the portal fissure behind, the gall-bladder fissure at the right, and the anterior border in front, is a squarish area, which is called the quadrate lobe, from its shape. At the right of