THE FASCIA OF THE HAND. 357 In the interdigital commissures is a thin band, which extends from the index to the little finger, and forms the basis of the webs. It is called the superficial transverse ligament. The Dorsal Fascia of the Hand. This is a thin layer, continuous on ea<;h side with the lateral parts of the pal- mar fascia, above with the fascia of the forearm, and below with the sheaths of the extensor tendons. Between the metacarpal bones are stretched delicate fasciae, which cover the dorsal interosseous muscles. LONG FLEXOR OF THE THUMB LONG FLEXORS OF THE FINGERS Fascial Sheaths of Tendons in the Hand. On the palmar aspect of the digits each flexor tendon runs in a tubular canal, made by the concaved phalangeal surfaces and strong fibrous bands, which arch over these from the lateral margins of the bones. The bands are called median nerve vaginal ligaments, because they help to form the sheath {vagina) of the ten- don. They are very dense opjiosite the shaft of the phalanx, much thinner opposite the joints. Each of the canals is provided with a vaginal synovial membrane (Fig. 416). Those of the index, middle, and ring fingers are independent, cylindrical slieaths, covering tlie length of two phalanges ; that of the thumb, also, is separate, and extends from about two inches above the radiocarpal joints to the inter- ])halangeal articulation ; and that of the little finger, starting a trifle higlier in the forearm, I'eaches to the distal end of the second plialanx, and in- cludes also the flexor tendons of the other fingers as far as half-way down the palm. On the dorsal aspect of the hand a difPei'ent arrangement obtains (Fig. 417). The tendons of the digital ex- tensors spread out upon the back of the first and second phalanges and l)lend at the sides with the lateral ligaments of the joints from the meta- carpo-phalangeal down, themselves acting as ]>osterior ligaments. As has already been said, the posterior annular ligament forms with the hind surface of the adjacent bones of the forearm a series of tubular canals, through which extensor tendons pass. These channels are provided with vaginal synovial membranes, which extend above and below the limits of the ligament. They contain tendons as follows : the first—that on the radial border—the extensor ossis metacarpi ])ollieis and the extensor brevis pollicis; the second, the extensores carpi radiales longus and brevis ; the third, the extensor longus pollicis ; the fourth, the exten- sor communis digitorum and tlie extensor indicis; the fifth, the extensor minimi digiti; and the sixth—that on the ulnar border—the extensor carpi ulnaris. Fig. 41f).—Synovial membranes of tendons in the palm, artificially distended. (Testut.)