727 THE LARGE INTESTINE. The mucous membrane is paler, somewhat firmer, and much simpler than that of the small intestine : there are no connivent valves, no villi, no glands of Brun- ner, no patches of Peyer. But there are many so-called solitary glands, though they are less numerous than in the upper bowel; and the thickness of the mucosa is occupied by simple, tubular glands, larger than those met with previously, and containing a much greater proportion of goblet cells. In- deed, in not infrequent eases, it is found that the majority of the epithelial cells are of this varietv. THE C-fflCUM. The cfficum {cieeus, " blind") (Figs. 783, 785) is thus named because it is a pouch, a no- thoroughfare. Its blind end points downward, its open end upward, passing directly into the colon, of which this gut seems to be the begin- ning, justifying its old name, ccqmt coll, " the head of the colon." The line of separation betAveen them is at the level of the opening from the small intestine, on the left side and behind, about two and a half inches from the lower end. Here is the ileo-ccecal or ileo-colic valve, which protects the ileum against the back- ward flow of faeces from the large intestine. If the extremity of the ileum was simply attached to the margin of a circular hole of its own diameter in the side of the large intestine, there would be a frequent reflux from the latter, and the Fig. 783.—Cavity of tlie ca-cum, its front waU having been cut away. The ileo-eaecnl valve and the opening of the appendix are shown. (Testut) COLON SEROUS COAT EXTERNAL LAYER 1 MUSCULAR JNTERNAL LAYER / COAT AREOLAR COAT MUCOUS COAT MUCOUS COAT AREOLAR COAT INTERNAL LAYER 1 MU ~~~-^EXTERNAL LAYERj ( SCULAR COAT SEROUS COAT Fig. 784.—Diagram of a vertical section of the ileo-caecal valve, showing its structure. (F. H. G.) lower ileum would be only a receptacle for excrement. But, at the junction of the two guts, the ileum is flattened from above downward, and the serous coat and the outer layer of the muscular coat are so shortened that the other tunics are thrust into the cavity of the large intestine, forming two lips, an upper and a lower, with