540 THE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. tegmentum is convex, and slopes downward and forward, forming a part of the floor of the third ventricle. Upon this surface is extended the forward continua- tion of the gray of the aqueduct. The locus niger can be traced backward to the upper margin of the pons, and forward to the corpora albicantia. The white around the red nucleus is an extension of the greater part of the superior cere- bellar peduncle of the opposite side—decussation taking place across the middle line in the raphe. As a whole the white of the crura is a continuation of bundles from the internal capsule and subthalamic region. THE EPENCEPHALON. This segment of the brain comjjrises the parts developed from the fc^urth encephalic vesicle, namely, the pons and the cerebellum. The Pons. CORPUS ALBICANS The pons, otherwise called pons Varolii (" bridge of Vax'olius ") and tuber annu- lare (" annular protuberance "), consists largely of white nervous tissue, the greater part of which is divided into two groups of bundles, according to the dii'ection in which they run (Figs. 587, 596). One set courses nearly vertically from the mesen- cephalon to the oblongata, occupying the central portion of the pons; the other, mainly superficial to this, is disposed horizon- tally, and is seen at the front and sides, pro- jecting beyond the surface plane of the crura and the oblongata. The horizontal part gives the name to the whole, because it suggests the arch of a bridge connecting the lateral halves of the cerebellum. The ventral por- tion of the arch has the greatest vertical diameter, and the sides taper as they go dorsally, being smallest where they enter the cerebellum, constituting the middle peduncles of tliis organ. By removing the cerebellum, a view is obtained of the dorsal aspect of the pons (Fig. 597). On each side is seen a superior peduncle of the cerebellum, running down- ward and outward from the quadrigemina. Between these two diverging masses is stretched a flat, triangular plate, consisting of two layers of nervous tissue, the ventral being white, the dorsal gray. This structure is variously called the valvula, the valve of Vieussens, and the ante- rior medullary velum. It forms the upper part of the dorsal wall or roof of the fourth ventricle. Cutting away the valvula, we look into the fourth ventricle, and see the upper portion of its ventral wall or floor, overlapped at its sides by the mesial borders of the superior cerebellar peduncles. In the entire middle line of this triangular area is a groove, close to which and to the oblongata is a rounded projection, the eminentia teres ("the round eminence"). Beside this is a shallow depression, ihe fovea superior ("the upper little pit"), and above the latter a deeply pigmented area, the loaus ceruleus (" the blue place"). A cross-section of the upper portion of the pons shows that the bulk of its ventral and larger part is composed of transverse bundles, with wliich are intermingled those which run longitudinally. The dorsal and smaller por- tion has a reticular formation in the centre, behind which is a thin layer of gray tissue, and in front of it a part of the fillet or lemniscus—a structure which will FIRST CERVICAL 1M ERVE Fig. 596.—Ventral view of mesencephalon, pons, and oblongata. (Testut.)