382 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTJEIL anastomotica magna. The radial extends from the point of bifurcation of the brachial to the palm of the hand, where it forms the deep jjolmar arch, anasto- mosing with the deep branch from the ulnar. It gives otf in the forearm the radial recurrent, the muscular, the anterior carpal, and the superjicialis voice; in the wrist, the posterior carpal, the metacarpal, the dorsalis indicis, and dorsalis pollicis; in the hand, the p>rinceps pollicis, the radialis indicis, the perforating, and interosseous. The ulnar begins a half inch below the elbow, and like the radial extends into the hand, terminating in the superficial palmar arch, anasto- mosing with the superficialis volse. In the forearm it gives off the anterior ulnar recurrent, the posterior ulnar recurrent, the interosseous, which divides into an anterior and posterior branch, and muscidar. In the wrist it gives otf anterior and posterior carpal branches, and in the hand the deej) communicating branch and the digital. Returning to the aorta, we find that the thoracic portion, which begins at the lower border of the fifth thoracic vertebra and terminates at the aortic opening in the diaphragm, gives off branches as follows : pericardial, bronchial, oesophageal, posterior mediastinal, and intercostal—these branches supplying the walls and contents of the thorax, with the exception of the heart-substance, which is sup- plied by the coronary arteries. The abdominal aorta begins at its opening in the diaphragm, and terminates on the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra by dividing into the common iliacs. It gives off as branches the phrenic, the cceliac axis, the superior mesenteric, the renal, the suprarenal, the spermatic, the inferior mesenteric, the lumbar, and the sacral arteries. These vessels as a group supply the walls of the abdominal cavity and the viscera contained within that cavity. The common iliac begins on the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra and extends to the intervertebral substance between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum. Here it divides into the interned and external iliac arteries. The common iliac gives off no branches of importance in its course. The internal iliac extends from the intervertebral substance between the last lumbar vertebra and sacrum to the upper margin of the great sacro-sciatic notch, where it divides into an anterior and jjosterior trunk, the anterior giving off as branches the superior vesical, the middle vesical, the inferior vesiccd, the middle hemorrhoidal, the obturatcrr, the internal pudic, and the sciatic ; also, the uterine and vaginal in the female. The posterior trunk gives off the ilio-lumbar, the latercd sacred, and the glutecd. As a group, the branches of the internal iliacs supply the walls and viscera of the pelvis. In addition to this, the gluteal, sciatic, and obturator supply the buttock and back part and internal surface of the thigh, and the internal pudic supplies the perineum and external organs of generation. The external iliac extends from the termination of the common iliac to the inguinal (Poupart's) ligament. Here it changes its name and becomes the femoral. In its course it gives off two vessels, the deep epigastric and circumflex iliac. The femoral begins at the inguinal (Poupart's) ligament and extends to the femoral opening in the adductor magnus muscle. Here it passes into the popli- teal space and becomes the popliteal. In its course it gives off as branches the superficial epigastric, the superficial external pudic, the superficial circumflex iliac, the deep external pudic, the profunda, the muscular, and the anastomotica magna. The profunda, which is a large trunk, gives off as branches the external circumflex, the internal circumflex, and the three perforating arteries. The femoral with its branches supplies the thigh. The popliteal extends from the opening in the adductor magnus muscle to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, and here divides into the anter-ior and posterior tibial arteries. In its course it gives off muscular branches, supe7'ior and infei'ior cutaneous, superior external articular, superior internal articular, azygos articular, inferior external articular and inferior internal articular arteries, which as a group supply the tissues in the popliteal space and the knee-joint. The anterior tibial begins at the lower border of the popliteus muscle, per-