786 THE URINARY SYSTEM. of the lateral surfaces, and, in the male, the upper part of the posterior surface. The thickness of the combined walls varies much within normal limits, being small in distension, great in collapse, and especially marked if there is good tone to the muscular coat. Form, Size, and Position of the Bladder.—Without regarding several widely varying, normal circumstances, it is inipossible to speak definitely of the form, size, position, and relations of the bladder. One must know the sex and approxi- mately the age of the individual, whether the organ is empty, rather full, or dis- tended, the condition of the muscular coat, and the fact as regards pregnancy. When the bladder is collapsed, its mucous walls fall together in such a way that a sagittal section shows the line between them in the shape of a V with luiequal and widely- spread arms, the point of the V indicating the opening of the urethra (Fig. 854). This view affords a means of designation of the most important surfaces. The part included within the arms of the V we call superior or intestinal surface; that beneath the long arm the anterior or pubic surface ; and that under the short arm, the posterior or rectal surface. lateral surfaces, which are narrow when the ANUS Fig. 854.—Diagram showing the shape, position, and relations of the bladder, when empty. (F. H. G ) right and left Besides these are organ is empty. When the bladder is moderately full, its sagittal section is very different (Fig. 855). The upper surface has changed from concavity to convexity, all of the others have become rounded, and the angles between the surfaces have vanished. The bladder in these circumstances holds about eight fluidounces, and has not risen out of the pelvic cavity. But, if this amount of urine is much exceeded, the limit of comfort is passed, and pronounced distention obtains, lifting the organ above the pelvic brim to a height commensurate with the degree of ful- ness, and bringing it within reach of recognition by abdominal })ercussion. In the female the bladder is flattened from behind forward, increasing the lateral and diniinisliing the antero-posterior diame- ters. In the child the l)ladder is almost an abdcnninal organ ; but, with increase of years, it sinks to its adult position in the pelvis. The orifice of the urethra is at the lowest point of the bladder, and is about an inch behind the middle of the pubic symphysis. In old men the posterior wall is liable to sag below this level, and thus permit the retention of a portion of the ANUS Fig. 8.55.—Diagram showing the shape, position, and relations of the bladder, when distended. (F. H. G.) urine. Enlargement of the prostate gland causes a bulging into the vesical cavity, and raises the opening high above the surrounding walls. There is no constricted part of the bladder which is entitled to be called a neck : the vesical opening of the urethra {meatus urinarius internus) is not funnel-shaped, but occurs as an abrupt aperture. Supports of the Bladder.—The bladder is rather freely movable, but is held within normal limits in various ways. The recto-vesical portion of the pelvic