THE 3IUSCLES. 322 Origin, both tubercles of the calcanenm. Direction, forward and a little outward. Insertion, the outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. Action, abduction of tlu' fifth digit. Nerve, the external plantar. Interossei Dorsales Pedis (Fig. 385).—"The dorsal interosseous muscles of the foot." Number, four. Situation, one in each of the four spaces between the metatarsal bones. Origin, each from the adjacent sides of two metatarsal bones. Direction, forward. Insertion, the bases of the first phalanges, as follows : the first to the inner side of the second toe, the second to the outer side of the second toe, the third to the outer side of the third toe, the fourth to the outer side of the fourth toe; FOURTH DORS INTEROSSEOU THIRD DORS INTEROSSEO Fig. 384.—Extensor brevis digi- torum of right foot. (Testut.) SECOND DORSAL INTEROSSEOUS FIRST DORSAL INTEROSSEOUS Fig. 385.—Interossei dorsales of right foot. The line xx is that from which abduction is made. (Testut.) also, each to the extensor tendon of the corresponding toe. Action: each abducts from a line drawn through the long axis of the second toe. Those acting on the second toe are alternately abductors and adductors : when one of them has abducted the toe, the other restores it to its attitude of rest by adduction. The dorsal interossei also flex the first phalanges, and afterward extend the second and third. Nerrc, the external plantar. Adductor Obliquus Hallucis (Fig. 386).—" The oblique adductor of the great toe." Synonym, adductor pollicis 2"»edis, "the adductor of the thumb of the foot." Situation, in the fore and middle part of the third muscular layer of the sole. Origin, the proximal ends of the second, third, and fourth metatarsals. Direc- tion, forward and inward. Insertion, the outer side of the base of the first 23halanx of the great toe, in common with the adductor transversus and the outer head of the flexor brevis hallucis. Action, adduction and flexion of the great toe. Nerve, the external plantar. Adductor Transversus Hallucis (Fig. 386).—" The transverse adductor of the great toe." Synonym, transversus pedis, " the transverse muscle of the foot." Situation, in the third muscular layer of the sole, across the distal end of the metatarsus. Origin, the lower metatarso-phalangeal ligaments of the outer three toes and the transverse metatarsal ligament. Direction, transversely inward.