601 THE SPINAL NERVES. SPI NAL ACCESSORY CERVICAL PLEXUS BRACHIAL PLEXUS PERIOR CERVICAL ON OF SYM- PATHETIC MIDDLE CERVI- CAL GANGLION INFERIOR CERVI- CAL GANGLION fibres for distribution to the vessels which it innervates, and contributes medullated fibres to the sympathetic trunk. The ventral primary divisions of the thoracic nerves (except the first) form intercostal nerves, and are distributed each to its own area, but in all the other regions intricate plexuses are formed by neighboring nerves before their branches of dis- tril)ution are given off The recurrent branch is a small twig given off from the nerve immediately after it leaves the intervertebral fora- men. It receives a communi- cation from the sympathetic and I'e-enters the spinal canal to supply the meninges and blood-vessels. Dorsal Primary Divisions of the Spinal Nerves.— General Statement.—The dorsal primary divisions of the spinal nerves (Fig. 654) are destined for the supply of the skin of the back of the seal]!, trunk, and gluteal region, and the muscles of the posterior spinal group, except those connected with the upper limb, the serrati posteriores, and the levatores costarum. With tlie few exceptions men- tioned below, each nerve passes backward between the trans- verse processes of the adjacent vertebrae and spinal muscles, dividing into an internal and an external branch. From the sixth tlioracic nerve up- ward the internal branches are larger and ai'e mainly cuta- neous, the external branches are smaller and purely mus- cular ; below that point the arrangement is revei'sed, the external branches being the larger, and mainly distributed to the skin, the internal liranches small and chiefly dis- tributed to the erector spinse and deeper spinal muscles. Exceptions to this general type are as follow : The dorsal primary divis- ion of the first cervical (sub- occipital) nerve does not divide, is usually purely muscular, and requires special description. The dorsal divisions of the fourth and fifth sacral nerves and the coccygeal nerve do not divide, but form loops with each other, and are pui-ely cutaneous. LUMBAR GANGLIA COCCYGEAL PLEXUS Fig. 653.—Anterior surface of the spinal cord, showing the spinal nerves and their connections with the sympathetic trunk on one side. (Testut.)