819 THE PROSTATE GLAND. veins, the pubo-prostatic ligaments, and the anterior ligament of the bladder. The lateral surfaces are convex, and covered by the anterior margins of the leva- tores ani muscles, the vesico-prostatic plexus of veins intervening. The base is situated immediately below the bladder, with the muscular fibers of which it is directly continuous. The apex rests on the upper surface of the superior layer of the triangular ligament, about half an inch behind the symphysis, and a little below the horizontal plane drawn through the highest point of the subpubic arch. The prostate is traversed from base to apex by the first portion of the urethra, which occupies the median plane, but is nearer to its anterior than to its posterior surface. The direction of the ejaculatory ducts has already been described. Lobes.—The prostate consists of two lateral lobes, which meet and become continuous both in front of and behind the urethra; and this bilobed condition is indicated by a posterif)r median groove, the prostatic fissure, which lodges the vasa defer- "-fu''T"A^%"HE';R°PR"TA?,o tPo" entia and the vesiculfe seminales. On median section, however, the gland is seen to consist of three parts, one in front of and two behind the the urethra. Of the two posterior divisions that above the ejaculatory ducts is called the third or median lol)e. It is, of course, continu- ous at the sides with the lateral lobes. When \ (^M^^^^^ slightly enlarged the median lol)e forms a pro- V <^ j^i "^^""^ jection on the middle zone of the base ; greater | sinus pocularis degrees of enlargement cause the posterior wall s^"'"'*'- vesicle deferens n ,\ • il 1 • i 1 Fig. 888.—Base of the prostate Rland. ot the vesico-urethral opening to become convex, (Testut after sappcy.) thus changing both the length and direction of the urethra, and often interfering with micturition and the passage of .sounds. Minute Structure.—Structurally the prostate consists of two principal ele- ments—stroma, and glandular tissue. The stroma, made uj) of connective tissue and smooth muscular fibres, forms for the prostate a sort of external capsule, in the thickness of which are lodged the veins of the prostatic plexus. By its outer surface this capsule is in contact and blended with the recto-vesical fascia and the superior layer of the triangular ligament. The inner surface of the capsule gives birth to a system of trabeeiikc, which, radiating toward the veru- montannm in the floor of the urethra, divide the gland into a number of triangu- lar spaces, in which is lodged the glandular tissue. The museular fibres of the stroma are abundant, constituting about one half of the entire mass of the gland. Above, they are continuous with the muscular fibres of the bladder wall, and form a strong ring surrounding the urethra; below, they are mingled with a small amount of voluntary muscular tissue, derived probably from the trans- verse perineal muscles. The glands are of the branched or tubular variety, and number .30 or 40. They are disposed in a radiating direction around the urethra. Their ducts communicate with the urethra by minute orifices, opening into the prostatic sinuses on either side of the veruniontanum. The glands are lined by a layer of columnar epithelium. They secrete a milky fluid, which at the moment of ejaculation is added to the seminal fluid. Vessels and Nerves.—The arterial supply is derived from the inferior vesical and the middle hemorrhoidal arteries. These furnish branches of small calibre, which ramify in the thickness of the organ, forming capillary plexuses around the walls of the glands. The veins empty into the plexus (vesico-prostatic), which surrounds the prostate, terminating finally in the internal iliac vein. The lipnpJiafies take origin around the glandular walls, ramify with the venous plexus, and finally end in the internal iliac nodes. The ner^ves are branches of the hypo- gastric plexus.