THE BONES. 190 attachment to muscles. The stnall corima are small conical pieces of bone, often partly, and sometimes wholly, cartilaginous, which ])roject upward and backward from the junction of the great cornua and the body. Their extremities attach the stylo-hyoid ligaments, which suspend the hyoid from the styloid processes of the temporal bones. Ossification occurs in the cartilage of the second visceral arch, continuous with the styloid process. There is a centre for each cornu, and for each half of the body. The synchondrosis of the great cornu usually ossifies after middle life. The synovial articulation of the small cornu seldom ankyloses. THE SKULL AS A WHOLE. The Sutures. The sutures are the closely-fitted articulations of the uneven edges of the bones of the skull, in which the bones are separated only by a fibrous suture membrane, continuous with the periosteum and dura, except in the two synchondroses of the jugular and basilar portions of the occipital bone, at the base of the skull, where cartilage intervenes until it is ossified in adult life. The sutures allow the rapid growth of the skull in early life, diminish shocks, and, by being alternately bevelled on each side, bind the bones so firmly together that dislocation is next to impossible. Many of them are often, but not always, obliterated by ossification in adult life. The time when this commences is very variable, but it usually begins where they last came together—i. e., near the posterior, anterior, or antero-lateral fontanelles. Though the sutures are best named from the bones which form them, those around the parietal bones have received special names from their shape, direction, etc., as the sagittal (interparietal), the coronal (fronto-parietal), the lambdoidal (occipito-parietal), and the squamous (squamo-parietal). The fontanelles (" little springs") are unossified, membranous spaces which exist before, at, and for a time after birth at the angles of the parietal bone. Their existence and position are due to the fact that, while the bones are quadri- lateral, ossification proceeds radially or circularly, so that the angles are the last to ossify. The larger, diamond-shaped anterior fontanelle is an important land- mark at parturition. It serves for a safety-valve for tlie rapidly varying intra- cranial pressure of early infancy, and closes during the second year. The anterior and posterior lateral fontanelles are closed in foetal life. The posterior Jontanelle is often filled up before birth, but the bones are then movable upon each other, and the triangle of their converging margins may be felt as a landmark during parturition. Wormian bones often assist in the closure of the lateral and posterior fontanelles. Wormian bones are small, irregular ossicles from supernumerary ossific centres which are found in varying numbers in the sutures, especially in those about the parietal bones, and chiefly near the fontanelles. They are most numerous and largest in the lambdoid suture, but must be distinguished from the interparietal portion of the occipital bone when it exists as a separate bone. A small ossicle, the epipteric ("upon the wing") bone, is found in most skulls in each anterior lateral fontanelle up to the fifteenth year, after which it usually joins the great wing of the sphenoid. The Exterior of the Skull. The skull is bilaterally symmetrical. The superior region includes the smooth convex surface. It is covered by the occipito-frontalis muscle and aponeurosis and the scalp, which extends from the supraorbital margins in front to the superior curved lines of the occipital bone behind and between the superior temporal lines laterally. The skull, viewed from above, is broader behind than in front, and is oval