THE DUCTLESS GLANDS. 798 intrauterine life. At birth it measures two inches vertically, and half an inch ventro-dorsally and laterally ; and it weighs a drachm and a quarter. It is largest when the child is two or three years old, and its iceighf at that time is six drachms. Thereafter it slowly and steadily atrophies, and has nearly disa])peared by the fifteenth year, although traces of it may be discovered in old age. It has a rosy hue in the fcetus, is grayish-pink in the infant, and later becomes yellowish. It is soft and compressible, and sags out of shape by its own weight. It is vertically elongated, and is largest below. It has two lobes, approximately symmetrical—the right lateral and the left lateral—perfectly independent of one another. Each lobe has a delicate fibrous envelop, from whose visceral surface partitions extend inward, dividing the lobe into a large number of irregular, polyhedral lobules. If the envelop is cut between the lobules, the whole lobe can be unfolded, and the lobules are then found to be arranged around a central cord, close to which they are continuous with each other, but at the periphery of the lobe are free. A lobule consists of clusters of little nochtles, which ai'e essentially lymphatic in character. Each nodule has a cortical and a medullary portion, the lymph- cells being more numerous in the former, and the latter containing peculiar cells (of Hassall) in nests, the large containing smaller. These medullary corpuscles are the representatives of the epithelium of which the thymus originally was largely composed, before the invasion of lymphatic tissue, A capillary network surrounds the nodule. As the gland shrinks away the interstitial, connective tissue increases, and multitudes of fat-cells are formed, the last fact accounting for the yellow tinge of the organ during this stage. The arteries of the thymus are derived from the internal mammary, the thyroids, the subclavian, and the carotid. The vei^is run to the left brachio- cephalic. The lymphatics empty into the superior mediastinal nodes. The nerves come from the pneumogastric and the sympathetic. THE SUPRARENAL CAPSULES. Suprarenal bodies, adrenals, glanduke suprarenales—these are the most com- mon of the names given to the two organs, each of which surmounts a kidney, presenting an appearance suggestive of a liberty-cap, rakishly worn (Fig. 868). They are usually classed among the ductless glands, as is done here; but by some thev are grouped with the organs of the central nervous system, on account of the prominence of their nerve-tissue, both fibrous and cellular. It is fairly well determined that they are essential to life, inasmuch as their complete removal is speedily followed by death, as also is their entire degeneration in disease. Their precise function is still unknown. The suprarenal capsules are situateel in the epigastric region, resting upon the top, and the inner and front surfaces of the kidneys, to which organs they are attached by areolar tissue. Tliey are se]\'irated by the vertebral column, the distance between them being about two and a half inches. Their size is variable ; but the length rarely exceeds two inches, the width one inch and a fourth, and the thickness one-fourth inch. Each weighs about a drachm. The left is a little larger than the right. At birth they have nearly attained their adult size. On the anterior surface is a groove, running nearly crosswise, called the hilum. The right suprarenal body is pyramidal. Its anterior surface is nearly covered by peritoneum. It is adherent to the liver in an impression on the under sur- face of that gland, at the right of the vena cava. The left suprarenal body is not as tall as the right, but extends farther down- ward on the vertebral border of the kidney. It is in contact with the spleen, stomach, and pancreas. The upper part of its anterior surface is clothed with peritoneum of the small sac.