THE ARTICULATIONS. 204 articular, separating two synovial sacs, as in the sterno-clavicular joint, etc. These i)lates of fibro-cartilage may be perforated, or form merely a meniscus, attached to the inner surface of the capsule, as in the knee, or they may be wanting altogether, as in most of the more movable joints. In accordance with these various differences, articulations are more or less movable. The classification of joints noAV employed is largely physiological, depending upon the degree and kind of motion, as follows : Kinds of Joints. A. Synarthrosis is the primary form of articulation, and includes those immov- able joints (1) in which the contact of the adjacent surfaces is prevented only by a thin layer of fibrous tissue, continuous with the periosteum, as in many of the bones of the head ; and (2) those where bone and cartilage are directly united, as in the case of the first rib and sternum, etc. Nearly all of this class are liable to bony union at different periods in advanced life, and in early life permit inter- stitial growtli. In the skull these articulations are called sutures, of which we distinguish three varieties. Trae sutures include serrated and dentated sutures, where the margins are inter- locked, as in the sagittal and lambdoid sutures, respectively. False sutures include harmonic sutures, where there is simple apposition, as between the two halves of the palate, and squamous sutures, where bevelled edges overlap one another, as in the squamo-parietal suture. G-rooved suture, or .schindylesis, is where an edge of one bone fits into a groove in another, as in the case of the rostrum of the sphenoid and the vomer. Synchondrosis is generally a temporary form of joint, where the thin layer of cartilage between the bones usually ossifies before adult life, as in the union between tlie epiphysis and shaft of long bones, and between the sphenoid and occipital bones. B. Amphiarthrosis applies to joints which permit of slight movement, and Include symphysis, where the opposed surfaces are united by a disc or plate of -white fibro-cartilage, as between the bodies of the vertebrse or the pubic bones; and syndesmosis, where an interosseous ligament unites the surfaces, as in the lower tibio-fibular articulation. C. Diarthrosis applies to the more perfect and movable joints containing synovial cavities. Except for the smooth cartilage-clad ends of the bones, these are lined by synovial membrane, secreting synovia, which serves for the lubrica- tion of the joint. The bones are bound together by fibrous ligaments, forming more or less perfect capsules, which, tightened in some positions of the bones, relaxed in others, are often chiefly controllers of movement, while the surround- ing muscles, aided by atmospheric pressure, hold the bones together. The fol- lowing varieties are distinguished : Arthrodia, or gliding joints, admit of but a limited amount of gliding motion, in one or more directions, between two nearly flat articular surfaces, as in the carpus and tarsus, and between the articular processes of the vertebrae. Ginglymus, or hinge-joints, allow only movements of flexion and extension on one axis, between the cylindrical or trochlear convex and concave surfaces, as in the elbow and ankle. Condyloid joints present spheroidal articular surfaces, which allow abduction, adduction, and circumduction, besides flexion and extension, as in the metacarpo- and metatarso-phalangeal articulations. Saddle joints allow the same motions as condyloid. The surfaces are recipro- cally saddle-shaped ; hence they are sometimes called joints by reciprocal recep- tion. The carpo-metacar])al joint of the thumb is an example. Ball-and-socket joints (enarthrosis) permit movement in every direction be- tween the spherical head and socket, as in the shoulder and hip. They are the most movable of joints.