THE ORGANS OF RESPIRATION. 756 mucosa, with the attached surface of which a network of capillaries is in contact. It is a very simple kind of lung, and yet is the type on which the most complex respiratory organ is constructed. An animal which requires, on account of the rapidity of his tissue-changes, a very large supply of oxygen, would find loconaotion impracticable, if his respira- tory membrane was at the surface, projecting like a tree, or arranged like gills ; but it is manifest that there is not sufficient room in the entire body for a simple sac, whose lining would afford a surface large enough to meet the requirements of the case. The problem presented is that of providing a great extent of sur- face within a limited cubic space. It is the same question as that which confronts the librarian, whose books are vastly too numerous to be accommodated by the entire available area of the walls of the room. He neither appropriates more apartments, nor builds an addition to the house; but he constructs partial partitions, projecting from the walls toward the centre of the room, making alcoves of the intervening spaces, and thus enormously multiplies the shelving capacity. Nature adopts this plan in the lung, and, by form- ing alcoves at the periphery of the original sac, augments its available surface without increasing Fig. 815,-Lung of tvog, cut open its cubic capacity. The luna: of the frog; illus- showiQg its internal surface. (Dalton.) , . „^ •' . , r,-. r- i trates this lact; a sectional view (-t ig. 81o) shows that the mucosa is folded into partial partitions, between which are little recesses around the periphery, all opening into a clear, central passage. The complex lung of man is built upon this type. But the complexity of the human lung arises not largely from elaboration of the plan, but from immense multiplication of the structure. The great size of the human being and his rela- tively greater activity require not a different kind of lung, but a host of lungs of the same kind. Therefore, the human lung may well be regarded as a vast community of batrachian lungs, with the addition of such accessories as the immensity of the collection makes necessary. The alcoves—to repeat the library simile—are called air-vesicles, aheoli, or air- cells—the last name being objectionable on account of the different use of the word " cell" in histology. A collection of alveoli around a central hall consti- tutes an infandibulmu, so called from its funnel-shape. A group of closely related infiindibula makes a lobule. A great community of lobules is a lobe. Two or three lobes make a lung. In mode of development and general appearance a lobule bears a striking resemblance to a racemose gland. The stem of a lobule is an air-duct, and from this, within the lobule, branch the more minute tubes, which serve as stems for the infundibula, three of the latter often being connected with one of the former. The duct of the lobule unites with another of like size, making a larger one ; this last joins with its equal, and so on progressively until tubes of considerable size are reached, which either pursue this method, or enter the sides of those which are larger. Finally, for each of the two lungs a single tube results, and the two combining form a great median pipe. • Beyond this the air-channels do not have the regularity of shape which has characterized the system up to this point. They are the larynx, the pharynx, and the jjassages of the nose. Tracing the air-ducts in reversed order from the surface of the body to the depths of the lung, we have— 1. The nasal passages. 2. The upper and middle portions of the pharynx. 3. The larynx. 4. The trachea (the windpipe). 5. The two bronchi—one bronchus for each lung. 6. The bronchia (bronchial tubes, bronchioles) of all sizes from the largest to the smallest.