472 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SY8TE3L The Left Lower or Small Azygos Vein {i-ena hemiazi/gos, vena azygos minor) commences in the abdomen on the left side, in a manner similar to the great azygos on the right side, the branch from the renal vein being more constant, and sometimes the princij^al sonrce. It ascends through the left crus of the dia- phragm, and in the posterior mediastinum it lies in front of the left intercostal arteries as far as the eighth thoracic vertebra, where it crosses beneath the thoracic aorta and thoracic duct to join the great azygos vein. TrlhutarieH.—It receives (1) the left subcostal vein below the diaphragm ; and above it (2) the lower four left intercostal veins; (3) the left upper azygos (sometimes) ; and some small (4) (esophageal; and (5) mediastinal veins. The Left Upper Azygos Vein (^vena hemiazygos accessoria) varies in size with that of the left superior intercostal and the left lower azygos veins, between which it is placed, receiving two or three intercostal veins. It connects above with the superior intercostal vein, and opens below into the left lower azygos vein, or, crossing the sixth or seventh thoracic vertebra, ends in the great azygos vein. It often receives the left bronchial vein. It is quite variable and often absent, when its radicles, the fifth, sixth, and seventh intercostal veins, open directly into the great azygos vein. The Intercostal Veins accompany the arteries as a single trunk, lying above them. They receive large dorsal branches from the muscles of the back, the dorsal spinal plexus, and the spinal canal. They are eleven in number, one for each intercostal space, the lowest thoracic vein l)eing called the subcostal vein, ivom its position. They terminate variously in ditferent subjects and on the two sides. (See azygos, superior intercostal, and vertebral veins.) The Bronchial Veins accompany the bronchial arteries, only part of whose blood they return, tiiat distributed to the smaller bronchi entering the pulmonary veins. They pass out at the back of the root of the lung, and enter the upper end of the vena azygos major on the right side, and the left upper azygos or the left superior intercostal vein on the left side. Veins of the Spine (Figs. 502, 503). These form complicated plexuses, situated without and within the spinal canal and on the spinal cord, Avhich communicate with one another and with the veins of the neck and trunk. They contain no valves and may be described in groups as follows : I. Extra-spinal Veins.—The Dorsal Spinal Veins form a plexus over the laminae and adjacent processes of the vertebrse, where they receive tributaries from the skin and muscles of the back, the larger of which run forward along the interspinous ligaments. They communicate with the posterior longitudinal spinal veins by branches perforating the ligamenta subflava, and open laterally into the vertebral or the dorsal branches of the intercostal and lumbar veins, according to the region, by branches passing forward between the transverse processes. II. The Veins of the Vertebral Bodies (vence basis vertebrarum) occupy hori- zontal bony channels in the vertebral bodies and communicate with the veins in front of and at the sides of them. They open behind, through the lai'ge single or double foramen on the dorsal surface of the bodies of the vertelirre, into the transverse connecting branches of the anterior longitudinal spinal veins. III. Intra-spinal Veins.—(A) The 3Ieningo-rachidian Veins are those within the spinal canal between the dura and the walls of the canal. The Anterior Longitudinal Spinal Veins, large and plexiform, extend the entire length of the spinal canal behind the bodies of the vertebrje, one on either side of the posterior common ligament. Opposite the bodies of the vertebrse they are dilated and communicate with each other by transverse trunks, placed between the posterior common ligament and the body of each vertebra, which receive the veins of the vertebral bodies. Opposite the intervertebi'al discs they