827 THE FALLOPIAN TUBES. and is without valves. The lymphatics begin as minute spaces in the tunica fibrosa of the follicles, around which they form plexuses. At the hilum they are condensed into five or six trunks; and, following the veins, they finally empty into the lumbar nodes. The ncrres are derived from the ovarian plexus of the sympathetic. An additional supply is probably received from the uterine nerves, branches of the tliird and fourth sacral. Migration.—The ovaries are situated primarily in the liuiibar region, in front of the psoas, and near the kidney. About the third month of intra-uterine life they begin to descend, and at the ninth month they reach the brim of the pelvis. This descent is chiefly due to the fact that the lumbar region grows away from the ovary. Sometimes, though rarely, the gland may remain in its primitive situation, or it may descend into the inguinal canal, even passing through the external abdominal ring. THE FALLOPIAN TUBES. The Fallopian tubes, or oviducts ("egg-ducts") (Figs. 890, 891), two in number, are the excretory ducts of the ovaries and serve to convey the ova to the uterine cavity. Location.—They are situated in the free or u]>por margin of the broad liga- ments, lietween the ovaries behind and the round ligaments in front. Internally they are continuous with the superior angles of the uterus, externally each tube is attached to the superior or outer extremity of the corresponding ovary. That portion of the broad ligament below each tube, and between it and the ovary, is called the meso-salpinx ("mesentery of the tube"). The oviducts are, therefore, fixed in position by their continuity with the uterus, by their attachments to the ovaries, and by their imprisonment between the two peritoneal laminte, of which the broad ligaments are comjiosed. External Conformation.—Each tube is trumpet-shaped, and increases in size from within outward. At the ovarian extremity, it expands to enclose a funnel- shaped space, the infiiinl/lndina or jjavi/ioii. It varies in length from four to five inclies, and is divitled into three parts as follows : (a) the inner extremity or interstitial portion ; (h) the middle portion or body; (e) the external or fim- briated extremity. The interstitial portion is contained in the thickness of the uterine wall. Its canal, very narrow, is continuous with the uterine cavity through a small opening, the ostittm idcrinum (" door of womb "), which is oidy large enougli to admit a sm:dl bristle. The bodt/ is subdivided into two parts, an inner or istlimus and an outer or ampulla. The isthviiis is hard, cylindrical, straight, and nearly horizontal. It measui'es an inch and a half in length, and has a diameter of about one-eighth of an inch. The canal of this division is still verv small, though somewhat increased as compared with that of the interstitial por- tion, with which it is continuous. The anipidla (" bottle") or receptaciihim seminis ("reservoir of seed") extends from the isthmus to the fimbriated extremity. It is distinguished from the former by the fact that it has thinner walls, and is softer, and flattened antero-posteriorly. It is also markedly flexuous, and the diameter is almost twice that of the isthmus. Its canal, increased in size toward the outer extremity, is irregular in calibre, and large enough to admit a uterine sound. The fimbriated extremity (infundil)ulum) o])eiis downward, backward, and inward. It is t!u' most mov;d)le iiart of the tube, and receives the ova after their discharge from the Graafian follicles. This extremity may be divided for description into an internal and an external surface, a base and a summit. The external surface, continuous with the outer surface of the tube, is smooth and covered bv visceral ])ei"itoneum. The internal surfiace is continuous with the corresponding surface of the ampulla, and lined l)y a prolongatif)n of its mucous membrane. At the summit, the infundibulum communicates with the cavity of the ampulla through a narrow opening, aline to a line and a half in diameter,