164 THE BONES. and the calcaneum outward in front, the npper and outer border of the former is found over the middle of the latter, making the internal malleolus appear more prominent. In infancy the head of the astragalus is inclined inward more than in the adult, so that the foot is then naturally inverted. The tuberosity of the navicular on the inner border of the foot and that of the base of the fifth metatarsal on the outer border, both readily felt through the soft parts, are the best guides to the medio-tarsal and tarso-metatarsal joints. The tuberosity of the fifth metatarsal is a finger's breadth in front of the medio-tarsal, and directly in front of the tarso-metatarsal joint; that of the navicular is two fingers' breadth behind the tarso-metatarsal and directly in front of the medio- tarsal joint. Homologies of the Bones of the Two Extremities. The following conclusions are generally admitted : The thoracic and pelvic limbs are constructed on the same type in their attaching girdles and their several segments. In the pelvic and shoulder girdles the ilium corresponds to the scapula, the ischium to the coracoid process, and the os pubis to the precoracoid, and per- haps to the clavicle. At an early stage of embryonic life the limbs are folded ventrally upon the body, and present pre- and post-axial borders and dorsal or extensor and ventral or flexor surfaces. Later, the upper limb rotates outward 45°, and the lower limb rotates inward 90°. This brings the flexor surface in the upper limb forward and inward, and in the lower limb backward. The small trochanter and internal condyle of the femur, the tibia, and the great toe in the lower limb are pre-axial, and correspond respectively to the great tuberosity and outer condyle of the humerus, the radius, and the thumb in the upper limb, etc. The patella in the lower limb and the olecranon in the upper have no corresponding parts in the other limb. The adult human skeleton is adapted in every part to maintain with ease the erect attitude by being nearly balanced around the line of the centre of gravity in the standing posture, and in this respect it differs from that of other mammals. Stability and strength are provided in the lower limbs, mobility and lightness in the upper. THE SKULL. The bones of the head, composing the skull, contain and protect the brain and sense-organs, as well as the commencement of the alimentary and respiratory tracts. With the exception of the lower jaw, the bones are immovably joined together by sutures, forming a bilaterally symmetrical, sjjhei'oidal figure, some- what compressed laterally. It is supported upon the vertebral column, with the upper segment of which it articulates. For description, the twenty-two bones of the skull are divided into two sets. The cranimn, or brain-case, is the part above and behind, and comprises eight bones—viz. : r Occi^jital. ■D -1 1 J Sphenoid. t> p u f Two parietals. Basilar bones, < rT^ , i Kooi bones, < -r, , ' j i wo temporals. '(^rrontal. Ethmoid. The face is the lower and fore part, composed of six pairs and two single bones, or fourteen in all—viz.: in pairs, the maxillfe, palate, inferior turbinate, nasal, lachrymal, and malar ; single bones, the vomer and mandible. The hyoid bone may also be classed here, as a2)pendicular to the bones of the head. The base of the skull is preformed in cartilage, the roof and sides in membrane.