THE BIBS. 127 often perforated, notched, or bifid. It lies in a plane behind that of the body of the sternum and the cartilages of the seventh ribs. The sternum is longitu- dinally convex in front, concave behind, and presents transverse ridges where the segments unite. It consists of loose cancellous tissue with a thin shell of com- pact bone. The manubrium forms the upper border of the sternum, which is deeply notched in the middle {iiiterclavicitlar notch), and presents at its lateral angles two depressed surfaces looking upward, outward, and backward, where the clavicles articulate. On each side of the manubrium, at the widest part of the sternum, is a rough, triangular surface for union with the cartilage of the first rib. Below this the sternum rapidly narrows to the junction of the manubrium and the body, indicated by a prominent transverse ridge, easily felt through the skin and import- ant as a landmark. Here the second costal cartilage articulates with a surface formed of two demi-facets, one on the manubrium and one on the body. The third, fourth, and fifth costal cartilages articulate Avith the sides of the body at the ends of the transverse ridges between the segments.' The sixth and seventh costal cartilages articulate wath the sloping and narrow sides of the lower segment of the body, the facet for the seventh cartilage being completed by a demi-facet on the ensiform process. The sjjaces between the articular facets correspond to the intercostal spaces, and narrow from above downward. Muscles Attached.—In front: laterally, to the manubrium and body, the pec- toralis major; below the notch for the clavicle, the sterno-cleido-mastoid ; to the base of the ensiform process, the rectus abdominis ; to the sides and tip of the ensiform process, the aponeurosis of the oblique and transverse abdominal mus- cles. Behind : near the superior angles, the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid; laterally, in the lower four segments, the triangularis sterni; to the ensiform pro- cess, the diaphragm. On the sides: between the fiicets, the internal intercostals. The sternum articulates with seven, and occasionally eight, costal cartilages and the clavicle on each side. The sternum is subcutaneous at the bottom of the sternal fjroore, which is due to the lateral prominences of the pectoral muscles, and is limited above by the interclavicular notch and below by the infrasternal depression, due to the promi- nence of the seventh costal cartilages above the level of the ensiform process. The propoi'tionate length of the body is greater in the male than in the female. Its average length is six inches in the adult male, somewhat less in the female. Development.—The sternum is formed by the fusion of the ventral cartilag- inous ends of the upper ribs into two lateral bars, which later fuse together mesially, except in rare cases where a cleft sternum exists. Ossification is irregular, but usually the first tAvo segments present a single primary centre, Avhile two laterally placed centres commonly occur in the succeed- ing segments. By the failure of the latter to unite across the median line a median foramen or a vertical fissure may be left. THE RIBS. The ribs (costse) extend in twelve pairs from the thoracic vertebrae in an out- ward and forward curve toward the median line in front. They form the lateral walls of the thoracic cage, and are prolonged in front by the costal cartilages. As the upper seven pairs of the latter pass to the sternum, the corresponding seven pairs of ribs are called true or sternal ribs, Avhile the loAver five pairs are called/Vf/s^" or asternal ribs. Of the latter, the lower tAVO pairs are called /?oaim^ ribs, as their forward ends are free, Avhile those of the three pairs aboA'e them are connected together. The length of the ribs increases from the first to the eighth, and thence it decreases to the twelfth. The greatest breadth is found at the stei'nal end. The ribs are highly elastic, owing to their slenderness and curA'ature. ' The second, third, fourth, fifth, and seventh costo-sternal articulations correspond to the articu- lations of the heads of their ribs with two vertebrae.