THE ARTICULATIONS. 232 inner band of the ilio-femoral ligament. It is derived from the fascia between the pectineus and the obturator exteruus. Tlie capsule is thinnest between this and the ilio-femoral band, where it is perforated by an opening between the synovial cavity and the bursa beneath the psoas. The iscMo-Jemoral band con- sists of strong fibres from the ischium just below the acetabulum, which curve upward and outward to the base of the great trochanter internal to the digital fossa. In flexion of the thigh they pass almost straight to their femoral attach- ment. The capsule is weak dorsally below this band, where it usually tears in dislocation. Between this and the ilio-femoral band superiorly the capsule is strong, and is further strengthened by bands from the gluteus minimus and from the reflected tendon of the rectus. From the latter the tendino-trochanteric band passes to the upper end of the vastus externus muscle. Fig. 250.—Hip-joiut, front view. The cavity is distended artificially. (Testut.) The ligamentum feres (round ligament) is not round, but a triangular, flat interarticular band attached bv its apex to the upper half of the depression on the head of the femur, and by its base to the transverse ligament and the margins of the cotyloid notch, the ischial portion being the stronger. It is surrounded by .synovial membrane, and represents a migrated portion of the pectineus muscle. It conveys a small branch of the obturator artery to the head of the femur. It is torn in dislocation of the femur. The synovial membrane lines the inner surface of the capsule, from which it is reflected onto the neck of the femur as far as the articular margin, and onto the two free surfaces of the cotyloid ligament, thence being continued to the pad of fat at the bottom of the acetabulum, and as a tubular covering of the liga- mentum teres. . . Nerves.—The obturator, accessory obturator, anterior crural, and great sciatic, or the sacral plexus, supply the joint. Movements.—All the movements of a ball-and-socket joint are perinitted. The obliquity of the neck of the femur allovvs flexion and extension to take place by a rotation of the head without its cartilage-clad surface leaving the