61 CARDIAC MUSCULAR TISSUE. like a coarse brush, the fibrils standing for the bristles (Fig. 54). When the fibre has been hardened by certain reagents, it will occasionally show a cross-cleavage, by which it is divided into discs (Fig. 55). Upon the inner surfiice of the sarcolemma are scattered a number of oval nuclei, the muscle-corpuse/es (Fig. 56), so unobtrusive that they generally escape observation unless reagents are used in the examination. They are regarded as nucleated accumulations of the sarcoplasm. In a fibre are many groups of fibrils, each collection being called a muscle- column. The fibres are aggregated in bundles (fasciculi), and the bundles are assembled in the contractile portion of the muscle. The fibres may be 2 inches long and ij^-^ inch thick, or only a tenth ])art of these measurements. In muscles or fosciculi whose length is greater than that of their component fibres the latter are joined to each other end to end. Fibres commonly do not branch; but in some of the lingual and facial muscles terminal divisions may be observed. The fasciculi, as a rule, run from one end to the other of the contractile part of a muscle ; but exceptions occur in double-bellied muscles and in others which have a tendinous interruption of the muscular continuity. The fasciculi, from the closeness with which they are packed, have flattened sides, and are thus more or less prismoid. As has been said above, each fibre has, as its true and perfect investment, the sarcolemma. Between the fibres is a delicate areolar tissue continuous with a thicker layer of the same, which sheathes the fasciculi; and tliis is merely an inward prolongation of a still more pronounced lamina which coats the entire muscle. The outer tunic (Fig. 57) of the muscle is called epimysium (" upon muscle") ; the sheaths of the bundles constitute the perimysium ("around muscle"); and the tissue between the fibres is the endomys- ium (" within muscle "). All of these are con- tinuous, each with the others, and all are composed of areolar tissue. Fibres which end in tendon come to it either in line with its axis or obliquely to it. The sar- colemma of the end of the fibre is very closely attached to the tendon, and there is a continuity of the areolar tissue between the fasciculi of the muscle and that between the bundles of the tendon. In these ways the two parts of the muscle are so firmly united that their separation by violence is extremely rare. The blood-vessels course between the fibres in the areolar tissue, making a network of long meshes. Lymph- atics, also, are numerous in the areolar tissue, and the nerves of the muscle are abundant. Cardiac Muscular Tissue. The muscular tissue of the heart has peculiarities, which ally it to the plain muscular tissue on the one hand and to the cross-striped on the other. It is like the former in being composed of nucleated cells, and in being beyond the control of the will; it resembles the latter in being cross-striped, and in presenting in a mass a color similar to that of voluntary muscle. The cells (Fig. 58) are short, branched at one end, cross-striped (though with less regularity and ])lainness than in the case of ordinary striated muscle), and are not fur- nished with sarcolemma. The cells are connected with their Fig. 57.—Sheaths of muscular tis- sue in cross-section. The muscular tis- sue does not appear, but is represented by the spaces between the partitions. Outside of the entire muscle is epimyx- ium: between the bundles is perimys- ium : between the fibres is endomymim— the last shown in two areas at the right. Diagrammatic. (¥. H. G.) Fig. 58. muscular Cell tissue. of cardiac (Testut.)