THE BLOOD-VASCULAB SYSTEM. 456 It accompanies first the anterior and then the posterior branch of the left coronary artery, and receives branches from either side of its course, one of which, ascend- ing along the left margin of the heart (left marginal vein) is of some size. The Middle Cardiac Vein [posterior interventricular vein ) ascends from the apex of the heart in the dorsal interventricular groove to empty into the right extrem- FiG. 491.—Cardiac veins, dorsal view. (Testut.) itv of the great coronary sinus. It receives branches from the dorsal surface of both ventricles. The Posterior Cardiac Veins are three or four small vessels, which ascend on the dorsal surface of the left ventricle to open along the lower border of the coronary sinus. The Right or Small Coronary Vein passes along the right auriculo-ventricular groove to convey the l)l()()d from the hinder parts of the right auricle and ventricle into the right end of tlie coronary sinus. The following small vessels empty directly into the heart without the inter- vention of the coronary sinus. The Anterior Cardiac Veins are two or three small vessels, which collect the blood from the ventral surface of the right ventricle, and ascend to enter the loAver part of the right auricle. One larger than tlie others (right marginal vein or rein of Gahni) runs'along near the antero- inferior border of the heart. The smallest cardiac veins (vence cordis mininnc, Vence Thehesii) are numerous small veins within the substance of the heart, Avhich open into some of the small foramina Thebesii in the right auricle. Similar veins are said to open into the other heart-cavities. THE SUPERIOR VENA CAVA AND ITS TRIBUTARIES (Figs. 491, 493). The superior (descending) vena cava is formed by the confluence of the right and left brachio-cephalic (innominate) veins behind the lower part of the junction of tlie first right costal cartilage with the sternum. From this point it passes nearly vertically downward, with a slight convexity to the right, for about three inches, to empty into the right auricle on a level with the third costal cartilage. Its lower inch and a half are contained within the pericardium, the serous layer of which invests it except along its hind border. It receives the blood returned