THE URINARY SYSTEM. 792 longitudinal rows. Half an inch or more from the meatus externus in tlie ante- rior surface is a very large depression, nearly covered by a valve-like fold and, called lacuna magna, " the great lacuna." In any of the larger pits the point of a fine instru- ment may catch, with results diagnostically misleading and t h e r a p e u t i c ally injurious. Doubtless, also, the obstinacy of gonorrhoeal inflammation is often due to the concealment of the specific virus in some of tliese recesses, beyond the reach of topical remedies. It will be seen that there are many open- ings upon the surface of the membrane—those of mucous follicles, racemose glands, pros- tatic glands, ejaculatory ducts, the uterus masculinus, and the lacuna;; to which array must be added the mouths of the ducts of Cowper's glands, in the proximal part of the spongy urethra, the glands them- selves being situated one on each side between the two layers of the triangular ligament, close to the membranous portion of the tube. The mucous membrane is surrounded by an areolar coat of great elasticity, in the meshes of which are large numbers of convoluted vessels, mostly venous, a tissue similar to the true erectile tissues being thus constituted. Outside of this is a coat of unstripcd muscle in two layers, the inner being longitudinal in the dis- position of its fasciculi, the outer circular. The whole is enclosed in a fibrous tunic of variable thickness. In the upper ]iart of the prostatic portion the circu- lar muscular layer is thick, and is sometimes spoken of as the sphincter of the bladder ; but it should be called the internal sphincter of the urethra. This should not be confounded with the structure of striped muscle which surrounds the membranous portion above the triangular ligament, and is the external sj)hincter of the urethra. The compressor nrethrge embraces the membranous portion in the space between the two layers of this ligament. PROBE IN ^LACUNA MAGNA SPONGIOSUM Fig. 863.—The distal portion of the male urethra, laid open on its posterior (under) surface, showing the lacunse. (Testut.)