397 THE ARTERIES. Relations.—At its point of origin the vessel is snperfieial, being covered by the skin, superficial fascia, platysnia, and deep fascia ; it then passes beneath the stylo- hyoid and digastric muscles and the submaxillary gland, and is deeply situated. At the border of the jaw the vessel again beccjmes superficial, and its pulsations can be readily felt in front of the raasseter. In the face it passes through the muscle-fibres of the facial muscles. Variations.—The variation most commonly met with is the occurrence of a trunk from the external carotid, common to the facial and lingual arteries. Surgical Anatomy (Fig. 446).—The facial can be ligated at its origin from the external carotid, or at its point of crossing the lower jaw. In operations for the removal of the submaxillary gland the fact should be remembered that the artery occupies a groove on its internal or deep surface, and is in a position to be injured. The course of the branches of the facial should l)e studied in the many operations on the face. Branches.—The branches of the facial are divided into two sets, a cervical set and a J'ncial set. In the cervical region the facial gives off the ascending palatine artery, the tonsillar, the glandular, the submental, and muscular. The ascending palatine passes to the outer side of the pharynx, which it supplies ; it also sends a branch to the soft palate, and anastomoses with the descending palatine artery, a branch of the internal maxillary. The tonsillar is a branch to the tonsil and tongue. The glandidar are branches given ofP to the submaxillary gland. The submental is a large branch which runs along the lower border of the jaw to the chin ; here the vessel gives off terminal brandies, which wind over the jaw, and supply the tissues of the lower lip. Miii^cular branches are given off to the muscles with which tlie vessel is in contact. The facial branches are the inferior labial, the coronary, the lateral nasal, the angular, and muscular. The inferior labial runs parallel with the body of the jaw forward to the chin ; it supplies the tissues of the chin and lower lip. The coronari/ arteries are given off at the angle of the mouth, and run, one in the tissues of the lower lip, the other in the tissues of the upper li]>, in close contact with the mucous membi'ane. The lateral nasal supplies the ala of the nose. The angidaris the terminal branch of the facial. It ascends to the inner angle of the eye, and supplies the structures in this position, anastomosing with the infra-orbital, and with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery. The Occipital Artery (Fig. 448).— Origin : the occi])ital artery arises from the external and posterior surface of the external carotid, opposite to the facial, at a point a little above the level of the hyoid bone. Course and terminatioii : it winds upward and backward to the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, occupy- ing a groove on its inferior surface. The vessel is here covered by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and crosses the internal carotid, internal jugular vein, and the pneumogastric nerve ; it then continues upward and backward beneath the muscles attached to the superior curved line of the occipital bone and the space between this and the inferior curved line, becomes superficial by piercing the trapezius or the fascia between the occipital attachments of the trapezius and sterno-cleido-mastoid, and then runs forward in the scalp tissue to the vertex of the skull, anastomosing with the branches of the temporal and posterior auricular. Varieties.—The occipital is in rare cases a branch of the internal carotid ; sometimes it is given off from the inferior thyroid. Surgical Anatomy (Fig. 446).—The vessel is deeply situated and seldom wounded ; it may become necessary to ligate it for cirsoid aneurism. It can be ligated at its point of origin from the external carotid, or in the scalp tissue just above the superior curved line of the occipital bone. Branches.—The muscular, sterno-mastoid, auricular, meningeal, and arteria princeps cervicis. Muscular branches are given off to the muscles with which it is in contact; one large muscular branch, the sterno-mastoid, is given off to the sterno-cleido-mastoid, and is distributed to the muscle with the spinal acces- sory nerve. The auricular branch supplies the posterior portion of the external