THE CUBOID. 159 outward and forward to the neck, and separates the two fiicets Avhich articulate with the calcaneuni. The posterior facet is concave from behind forward ; the anterior is convex and rests upon the facet on the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis. The anterior facet is continuous in front with the oval facet on the head, for the navicular, though there intervenes between them internally a small facet which rests upon the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. The posterior surface is a mere narrow border, grooved internally for the flexor longus hallucis. The tubercle bounding this groove externally attaches the posterior band of the exter- nal lateral ligament of the ankle, and sometimes is found as a separate bone, the OS trifjonum (" triangular bone "). Fig. 180.—Right calcaneum, internal purface. (Testut.) The Calcaneum. The calcaneum ("heel") or os calcis (Figs. 180-183), the largest bone of the foot, projects backwaixl and downward to form the heel, which acts as a fulcrum for the calf-muscles, and transmits most of the weight of the body to the ground. Its long axis is directed for- ward and a little outward from its en- larged posterior exti-emity. The ripper surface presents in its fore part two facets for articulation with the astragalus. The larger, hinder, and external facet is convex from before backward; the forward one is long, concave, often subdivided, and is located on the upper surface of the sustentaculum tali (" su])port of the astragalus"), a flat,shelf-like process projecting inward on a level with the upper surface. Between these two facets is a groove for the interosseous ligament, passing obliquely forward and outward to a rough surface where the extensor brevis digitorum arises. The under surface is narrow, rough, and transversely convex. It ends behind in two tubercles, which attach plantar muscles and the plantar fascia. The inner tubercle is the larger, the outer the more prominent. In front of these the long plantar ligament is attached while the shoi't plantar ligament is attached to the anterior tubercle at the fore end of this sui'face and to the shallow groove in front of it. The inner suiface presents a concavity between the inner tubercle behind and the sustentaculum tali in front. The under sur- face of the latter presents a groove continuous with that at the back of the astragalus for the flexor longus hallucis. The outer surface, rough, flat, and subcutaneous, presents at its fore part two slight grooves, the upper for the peroneus brevis, the lower for the peroneus longus, separated by a ridge or tubercle, the peroneal spine. The posterior surface is smooth above, and separated by a bursa from the tendo-calcaneus (Achillis), which is attached below. On the anterior surface is a saddle-shaped articular facet for the cuboid. The calcaneum and astragalus are both very vascular. The veins of the former emerge mostly on the inner side, where they are less exposed to pressure. The Cuboid. The cuboid ("cube-like") (Figs. 181-183) lies on the outer side of the foot, between the calcaneum behind and the fourth and fifth metatarsals in front. Although cuboidal, the four surfaces adjoining the external converge to it, giving the bone a pyramidal shape. Posterio7-ly, it articulates with the calca- neum by a saddle-shaped facet prolonged backward at the lower and inter- nal angle, beneath the calcaneum. Antcriorlji, a smaller facet is divided into an outer triangular and an inner quadrilateral portion for the fifth and fourth