THE 3IUSCLES. 246 siders the intimacy of relation between periosteum and bone, he is not sur- prised at the infrequency of the separation of a tendon from its osseous attachment. Proportionate Increase of Tendons with Age.—The tendinous portion of a muscle increases with years, and on this account the muscles of an adult are stiifer tlian those of a child, and the range of joint-movement is diminished. A child's extended lower limb may be kept at a right angle with his trunk for a long time without causing him any discomfort; but the same procedure cannot be prac- tised upon an adult without producing great suffering and perhaps injury. The difference is due to the normal muscular extensibility in the infant on the one hand, and the equally noriual tendinous inextensibility in the adult on the other. Origin and Insertion of Muscles.—A muscle is attached to two objects, and by its contraction lessens the distance between them. The part which is fastened to the more fixed of these objects is called the origin, the other the insertion. Tlie origin is generally, especially in the limbs, proximal, the insertion distal. But the terms are entirely physiological and lai'gely conventional, for in case of many muscles there is room for difference of opinion as to which portion is the more entitled to be called origin—the action being as frequently from one end as from the other. Fasciae.—The muscles in a region are maintained in close relations with each other by strong sheets of white fibrous tissue, which are wrapped firmly around them and often send shelves between them. These fibrous expansions are called fascice {" bandages "), and also ajwneuroses of investment. They will be described in detail after the muscles have been considered. It will suffice here to remark that it is common for muscles to have extensive attachments, either of origin or insertion, to the fascias vv'hich enwraj) them. Ligamentous Action of Muscles.—The muscles perform a valuable service in keeping the cartilaginous surfaces of the movable joints in contact. The liga- ments proper' are in many cases utterly inadequate for this work, as witness the joint between the shoulder and arm : remove the muscles and the humerus drops away from the glenoid fossa. But the muscles, which normally are never fully relaxed, keep up a tireless pressure, and, excepting violent accidents, never allow a separation to occur. This imvarying normal tension of muscular tissue is an obstacle to the reduction of fractures and dislocations ; for as soon as a bone is thrown out of its position, or a breach in the continuity of its substance occurs, the neighboring muscles, in demonstration of their being constantly somewhat tense, pull the luxated bone still further out of place, or cause the fragments to overlap each other. The muscular force is often so great as to require much strength, or anjesthesia, or both, to overcome it. The Mechanics of Muscular Attachments.—The points of attachment of most muscles are such as to place these organs at a great mechanical disadvantage. This is very evident in a large part of the muscles of the limbs. Take, for example, a muscle which bends the forearm upon the arm. It is attached to the lower half of the front of the humerus, crosses the elbow-joint, and just below this is attached to the ulna (Fig. 260). The loss of power involved here is illus- trated in a homely way by comparing the effort required to close a door by pulling it toward one, when it is grasped at a point near the hinges, with that which suffices when it is seized near its free edge, where the knob is usually placed. Manifestly the latter method is vastly easier. If the same plan were adopted in the flexion of the forearm, the muscle would be attached high on the humerus and low on the ulna (Fig. 261). But, although this would be advantageous as regards the expenditure of force, it would be strikingly otherwise in directions of quite as much importance. In the first place, the contraction of muscular tissue shortens it to one-half its length and no more, on which account the forearm could be bent upon the arm only to B, instead of to a much higher point, C, which is normally reached. In the second place, there would be a loss of rapidity