85 THE UMBILICAL CORD AND THE PLACENTA. the chorion frondosum blood-vessels pass from the embryo along the umbilical cord, and the vessels of the decidua serotina, developing into large sinuses, have projecting into them the villi, the blood of the embryo being thus brought into such intimate relation with that of the parent that an interchange by osmosis through the thin walls separating the two fluids readily takes place, and the nutrition, as well as the respiration and excretion, of the embryo is thus provided for. The entire region in which the interchange takes place is termed the pla- FiG. 97.—Diagram of gravid uterus, showing furmation of deciduEe and placenta. (Testut.) centa, which, as has been seen, is composed of a foetal and a maternal portion intimately related. At birth the placenta and the other decidua? separate from the uterus and are cast olf, forming what is known as the after-birth. To return now to the embryo proper. At its first separation from the embry- onic shield it is practically straight, but a bend soon makes itself apparent in what will later be the region of the niid-l)rain, the fore-brain being bent ventrally until it is almost at a right angle to the rest oi' the body ; and, at about the same time, a linear depression directed dorso-ven- trally appears on each side of the neck region, and gradually deepens until it almost unites with the cavity of the digest- ive tract. This depression is known as a branchial cleft, and is succeeded by three others which develop successively from before backward (Fig. 98). When the second cleft is devel- oped a second flexure of the embryo ap]iears, the posterior portion of the body being bent dorsally. This flexure, how- ever, is of short duration, and leaves no permanent trace of its existence ; but, when the third branchial cleft forms, a third and moi'e prominent flexure ap]>ears, this time a ventral flexure situated in the neck re^rion, and, as the dorsal portion , fig. ds. - Development T • I !• • 1 ofthe embryo—first month. oi the body also becomes curved in the same direction, the (His.) embryo seems to be coiled upon itself. Soon after the develop- ment of this neck-flexure the limbs make their appearance as simple paired, bud-like outgrowths from the sides of the body, and, as development proceeds, they increase in size, and rudiments of the fingers and toes appear. Gradually in later stages