THE MEMBRANES. 557 From what has been said it must cord, and the absohite and relative greatly in different parts. This is shown pietorially in Fig. 618. The Spinal Nerve-roots (Fig. 619).— The roots of the nerves which arise from the spinal cord are in two sets, dorsal and ventral. The dorsal leave the cord in a continuous series at the dorso-lateral fis- sure, the ventral along a narrow vertical strip of the surface nearest to the head of the ventral horn. At fairly regular in- tervals the roots in each series are bunched together, and then the fagot of the dorsal set is united to that of the ventral, the result being a single bundle, which is a spinal nerve. In this nerve the fibres from the two roots are intimately mingled, and thus the spinal nerves ai'e mixed nerves. On the dorsal bundle of each nerve is a ganglion, situated at the distal part of the root and outside of the sheath of dura. The upper roots are short and horizontal, and those below these are pro- gressively longer and more nearly per- be evident that the size and shape of the amounts of white and gray matter vary THORACIC Fig. 619.—Formation of a spinal nerve. (Testut.) COCCY GEAL Fig. 620.—Lower end of the spinal cord and the Cauda equina, dorsal aspect. The dorsal roots of the ri,2;ht side have been removed. (Testut.) pendicular. The lowest come oif from the tapering cone at the end of the cord proper, are very long and perpendicular in direction. From its resemblance to a horse's tail the collection of these roots is called the cauda equina (Fig. 620j. THE MEMBRANES of the Cerebro-spinal Axis. The brain and spinal cord are enveloped in three membranes (meninges), of which the innermost is called the pia, the middle one the araclinoid, and the outer- most the dura. Each of these is a covering for every part of the axis ; but they have such variations of structure and arrangement in different parts as to make it best to consider separately the membranes of the l)rain and those of the spinal cord.