588 THE NER VES. Ennning forward in the substance of the parotid gland, in which they cross superficially to tlie external carotid artery and temporo-maxillary vein, the tem- jwrofackd division after receiving a stout branch from the auriculo-temporal nerve, subdivides into temporal, malar, and infraorbital branches, and the cervico- facial division into buccal, swpramandibular, and inframaxillary branches ; the parotid duct separating the infraorbital from the buccal nerve. Leaving out the inframandibular nerve, these branches spread all over the face, each occupying mainly the region which its name indicates. They form, by interlacing witli each other and with the various cutaneous branches of the fifth nerve, an intricate net- work called the pes anserinus ("goose's foot"), and supply all the face-muscles, including the buccinator, the frontalis, and the anterior muscles of the auricle. The inframandibular branch emerges from the parotid gland behind the angle of the lower jaw, runs downward and forward under the platysma over the inframandibular and adjacent region of the neck, communicating freely with the great auricular and superficial cervical nerves, and supplying the platysma on its under surface. It should further be said that the zygomatic muscles and levator labii supe- rioris lie superficial to the infraorbital branch, and the risorius, depressor anguli oris, and depressor labii inferioris cross the supramandibular branch; but with these exceptions the branches of the facial nerve are superficial. Branches from the Temporofaciae Division.—The temporal branch of the tempoi'ofacial division of the facial nerve passes upward through the parotid gland, over the zygoma, and divides into branches, which supply the orbicularis palpebrarum, frontalis, corrugator supercilii, attrahens and attollens aurem, and small muscles of the front of the pinna. Its branches form numerous communica- tions with each other, with the malar branch, and with the auriculotemporal, tem- poral, lachrymal, and supraorbital branches of the fifth nerve. Note.—The branches to the frontalis and orbicularis palpebrarum are derived from tlie nucleus of the third nerve. The malar branch runs forward over the malar bone, and is distributed mainly to the orbicularis palpebrarum. It sends filaments to both eyelids and communi- cates freely with the temporal and infraorbital branches of the facial, and the supraorbital, lachrymal, malar, and infraorbital branches of the fifth nerve. The infraorbital branch emerges from the anterior border of the parotid gland just aliove the parotid duct, and divides into branches which radiate to the I'egion of the face between the orbit and the mouth. They pass under the zygomatic muscles and the levator lal)ii superioris, under the latter muscle forming with the infraorbital branch of the fifth nerve the infraorbital plexus. It communicates also with the neighboring facial branches (malar and buccal) and with the buccal, malar, nasal, and iufratrochlear branches of the fifth ; and su})plies the zygomatic muscles, levator anguli oris, levator labii superioris, levator labii sujierioris alseque nasi, pyramidalis nasi, compressor nasi, and depressor alee nasi; also the buc- cinator and orbicularis oris. Branches from the Cervicofacial Division.^—The cervicofacial division runs downward and forward in the parotid gland crossing the external carotid artery. In the substance of the gland it receives fibres from the great auricular nerve. It divides into the following three branches : The buccal branch emerges from the 2)arotid gland under the parotid duct, crosses the masseter muscle, and breaks up into twigs to the buccinator and orbicularis oris. It communicates with neighboring branches of the facial and with the long buccal nerve. The supramandibular branch crosses the masseter muscle and facial vessels on the body of the mandible, and under the risorius and depressors of the lower lip passes toward the chin. It supplies the risorius, depressor anguli oris, depressor labii inferioris, and levator menti, and communicates Avith the buccal and infra- mandibular branch of the facial and with the mental branch of the inferior dental nerve.