THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 824 muscular layer of the uterus. The tubo-ovarian ligament, or ovarian fimbria, connects the superior extremity of the ovary with the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube. The mspensoi-y ligament, also called the luinbo-ovarian liga- ment, or ligamentmn inj'undibulo-peknmm, is the upper part of the external border of the broad ligament. Running downward from the brim of the pelvis, it is attached to the superior extremity of the ovary and carries between its folds the ovarian vessels and nerves. Direction.—Usually the ovaries assume a slightly oblique direction, running downward, inward, and a little forward, so that their long axes, if extended below, would meet in front of the uterus. Their direction, however, varies widely within normal limits, and is much influenced by the fact that their liga- ments are not only extensible, but two of them, the utero-ovarian and tubo- ovarian, take origin from movable points. Another important factor in deter- mining the direction of the ovary is the condition of the neighboring organs. When the uterus deviates from the median line, the ovary of the side to Avhich the uterus turns is vertical ; while that of the opposite side, its lower extremity ])ulled on by the utero-ovarian ligament, is nearly or quite horizontal. A full bladder or rectum, by changing the position of the uterus, must also modify the direction of the ovary. Structure.—The ovary consists of a framework of stroma. Graafian follicles, and an epithelial covering continuous with but differing from the peritoneum. The stimna (" bed ") is a connective tissue composed of abundant cells, white and yellow fibrous tissue, plain muscular fibres, blood-vessels, and nerves. Many of the cells are s])indle-shaped, and are held by some anatomists to be cells of involuntary muscular tissue, while others regard them as connective-tissue cells. From the hilum there projects into the centre of the ovary a core made up.wholly of stroma and called the medullary mbstance. It is very vascular and contains no Graafian follicles. From the ]>eriphery of this core numerous bands of stroma run toward the surface of the ovary, crossing and intersecting each other in every direction. Arrived at the surface, these bands reunite to I'orm beneath the epi- thelial covering a thin fibrous layer, the tunica albvginea ovarii, which bears, however, but a faint resemblance to the tunica albuginea of the testicle, and can- not be dissected from the subjacent parenchyma. Between the tunica albuginea and the medullary substance is a thin zone called the cortical layer. It is only slightly vascular, and contains in various stages of development the Graafian follicles. The cpitltclial covering, composed of a single layer of columnar cells, reposes on the tunica albuginea, and is the remains of the germinal e^Mthelium. The peritoneum, covered by flattened epithelial cells, is totally unlike this structure, which it joins at the level of the attached anterior border. Graafian Follicles (Fig. 892).—The Graafian follicles contain the ova, and are embedded in the meshes of the ovarian stroma. Their structure depends on the degree of maturity which they have attained, and will therefore be described in several stages. The smallest follicles, varying in size from -g^-^ to y^-y of an inch in diameter, consist of a single layer of flattened or spindle-shaped cells, which closely invest a larger cell, the onm. In the young child each ovary contains about thirty-six thousand follicles of this grade. In a second and more advanced stage the following structural changes are noted: (1) The surrounding stroma forms for the follicle a special wall, divisible into two layers—an outer, fibrous layer (tunica fibrosa), which encloses the blood- trunks and lymphatic spaces of the follicle ; and an inner, vascular layer (tunica propria) composed of connective-tissue cells and a capillary plexus. (2) The spindle-shaped cells, which invested the ovum in the eai'lier stage, now become columnar and proliferate, making two layers, one of which lines the tunica propria, and is called the membrana graimlosa, while the other invests the ovum and is known as the discus proligerus. (3) Between these two layers an all)u- minous transparent liquid, the liquo7- folliculi, is developed ; and it crowds the