631 THE GREA T SCIA TIC NEB VE. sacral nerves, which pierces the great sacrosciatic ligament to reach the skiu over the lower and inner part of the gluteus maximus. TERMINAL BRANCHES. The Pudic Nerve (Figs. 677, 679). The greater part of the third sacral nerve is augmented by contributions from the second and fourth to form the pudic trunk, which emerges from the pelvis through the great sacrosciatic foramen, hooks round the small sacrosciatic liga- ment on the inner side of the pudic vessels, and enters the outer wall of the ischiorectal fossa, where it accompanies the vessels just mentioned. At the back of tlie fossa it gives off its inferior hemorrhoidal branch, and about one inch farther forward divides into the perineal nerve and the dorsal nerve of the penis. The Inferior Hemorrhoidal Nerve pierces the obturator fascia well back under cover of the gluteus maximus, and crosses inward through the fat of the ischio- rectal fossa, distributing its branches in fan-like manner to the sphincter ani externus and the skin round the anus. The perineal nerve consists of a superficial and a deep division. The super- ficial division forms two nerves. The posterior or external superficial perineal nerve crosses the transverse perinei superficially, and runs forward in the scrotum or labium majus outside the superficial perineal vessels. It interlaces with the long pudendal and internal superficial perineal nerve. The anterior or internal superficial perineal nerve enters the ischiorectal fossa in front of the preceding, pierces the transversus perinei muscle, and passes forward on the inner side of the superficial perineal vessels to the scrotum or labium majus, interlacing with the nerve pre- ceding. The deep division crosses inward jxirallel with the transversus perinei, and distributes branches to the external sphincter, levator ani, transversus perinei, ischio-cavernosus, and bulbo-cavernosus, and to the corpus spongiosum and ure- thral mucous membrane. The dorsal nerve of the penis passes with the internal pudic vessels between the layers of the triangular ligament. Here it sends twigs to the constrictor urethrte and corpus cavernosum, and then pierces the inferior layer of the tri- angular ligament, appearing on the doi'sum of the penis on the outer side of the dorsal vessels. It is distributed to the skin covering the corpus cavernosum and glans, communicating with sympathetic fibres. In the female a similar but much smaller nerve is distributed to the clitoris. The Great Sciatic Nerve. The great sciatic nerve (Figs. 679, 681) is a compound trunk consisting of two great divisions—the peroneal (external popliteal) and the popliteal (internal popliteal). With the latter are associated the nerves which supply the hamstrings and adductor magnus. These are usually united to form one great trunk, which divides into popliteal and peroneal a little below the middle of the thigh ; but they may be actually separate, or easily separated by dissection, as far as their constituent elements in the sacral plexus. Thus analyzed, the popliteal segment is seen to consist of ventral portions of the lumbosacral cord and upper three sacral nerves, and the peroneal nerve is traceable to the dorsal surface of the lumbosacral coi'd and upper two sacral nerves. The great sciatic nerve appears on the buttock at the lower border of the pyriformis, crosses the gemelli, obturator internus, and quadratus femoris under cover of the gluteus maximus. At the lower border of the last muscle it is found midway between the tuber ischii and the great trochanter in an angle formed by the gluteus maximus and biceps. It now descends on the adductor