99 THE EXCRETORY AND REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS. The pi'onepliros, however, is but a transitory organ, and it soon degenerates ; a second excretory organ, the mesovrphrof< or Wolffian body, makes its appearance, its development being simihxr to that of the pronephros. Its tubules, which open at one end into the ccelom and at the other into the Wolffian duct, reach a cousider- AO RTA. ^ GLOMERULUS OF PRONEPHROS. Fig. 112.—Diagram of the various excretory organs successively developed in the forioation of the urinary system. (Testut.) able length, and become much contorted, and a knot of ca])illaiy blood-vessels, developing in contact with each tubule, pushes its wall in front of it to form a glomerulus ]irojecting into the tubule. The tubules carly lose their connection with the ccelom, and, though at first they present a strictly segmental arrange- ment, this is not adhered to, as secondary and tertiary tubules arise from each mesodermal somite, develop glomeruli, and unite with the primary tubules to open into the Wolffian duct. The Wolffian body thus becomes an exceedingly complicated organ, which, on acctouut of its size, forms a strong projection into the coelom from the dorsal wall of the body. But even this second kidney does not persist into adult life as a functional excretory organ, but portions of it degenerate, while other parts are adapted to new functions, its excretory functions being assumed by a new kidney, the meta- nephros. This appears as a tubular outgrowth from the dorsal surface of the lower part of each Wolffian duct, and from the anterior end of this a number of tubules grow out and push their way into a mass of mesodermal tissue which has concentrated around them. The original outgrowths become the ureters, and the tubules, which become very numerous, develop into the urinary tubules, in connec- tion with which glomeruli (Malpighian corpuscles), derived from the mesodermal mass, develop. The compact organ thus formed becomes the functional kidney of the adult. When the Wolffian bodies are fully developed a cord of cells appears on the lateral surface of each of them, and becomes converted into a canal opening behind into the cloaca and in front into the coelom. This is the Mullerian dud, and by the time it is established a thickening of the peritoneal cells covering the mesial surfaces of each Wolffian body appears, forming the germinal ridges, ivom which the ovaries or testes develop. In the case of the ovaries the mesenchyma-