784 THE UBINARY SYSTEM. pneumogastric, also, have been observed. About two-thirds of the anterior sur- face is invested with peritoneum. Situation of the Kidneys.—The kidneys are situated at the back of the abdo- men, one on eacli side of the spinal column, behind the peritoneal cavity, on a level with the bodies of the twelfth thoracic and upper two or three lumbar ver- tebrae, the right being about one-half inch lower than the left. The long axis of each is directed from above downward and a little outAvard, so that the upper ends are nearer the middle line than are the lower. Their hind surfaces look backward and inward. Their lower ends are two inches or less above the iliac crests. Supports of the Kidneys.—The kid- neys are kept in place by their ves- sels, the peritoneum, and the abund- ant fatty tissue in which they are embedded, and which constitutes the "adipose capsule" of some authors. Relations of the Kidneys (Fig. 852).—The upper end of each kidney is capped by a suprarenal body, which laps over upon the front surface and inner border. The liind surface of each is in relation to the last rib, the diaphragm, and the quadratus lum- l)orum and psoas magnus muscles. The anterior surface of the right kid- ney is related from above downward to the suprarenal body, liver, duode- num, ascending colon, and jejuno- ileum ; the anterior surface of the left kidney to the suprarenal body, spleen, stomach, pancreas, splenic flexure, descending colon, and jejuno-ileum. THE EXCRETORY APPARATUS OF THE KIDNEYS. The urine is conducted from the kidneys by the ureters, by them poured into the bladder, and finally discharged from this reservoir through the urethra. Fig. 85'J.—Relations of the left kidney to the lung, pleura, ribs, spine, muscles, and hip-bone. (Testut.) The Ureters. The ureter for each kidney begins with the calices which enclose the papillse. They are somewhat fewer than the papillse, because one calyx may embrace two or even three of them. By the convergence and union of the calices in the up])er, middle, and lower region.s of the sinus respectively three funnel-shaped tubes, the mfundibula, are formed ; and these focus upon and empty into a large dilatation, the pelvis (" basin"), which terminates in the ureter jjroper. The pelvis lies partly within and partly outside of the sinus. When seen from front or back its form is suggestive of the bowl of a tobacco-pipe, the tubular ureter standing for the stem ; but it is much compressed antero-posteriorly, having to emerge from the sinus through the hilum, which, although but a narrow slit, gives passage also to the renal vessels, the latter lying in front of the pelvis. The ureter proper is as large as a small goose-quill, about 14 inches long, and passes downward and