THE NERVES. 642 These connections will be better understood by examining the plan drawn out in Fig. 691. There a represents a medullated nerve-fibre from a ventral nerve- root, passing b}' a Avhite ramus communieans through the ganglion directly con- nected with that spinal nerve to a ganglion higher up, where it will form au arborization round a nerve-cell, like e ; 6, a medullated nerve-fibre foi'ming an arborization round a cell of the ganglion of its own segment; e, a fibre ^Jassing through the ganglion without interruption and leaving it by one of its efferent branches to a prevertebral plexus or directly to some viscus; d, a fibre passing through the ganglion to some lower ganglion, there to end round some nerve-cell, or pass out through an efferent ramus ; e, a medullated nerve from a lower gan- glion, behaving as a. The dotted lines are non-mcdullated nerves. The fibre, /, arises as the axis- cylinder process of a ganglion cell, and passes by a gray ramus communieans along the sheath of the posterior nerve-root to the spinal meninges ; g passes by the posterior division to supply sympathetic fibres to its area of distribution; h enters the anterior division and is similarly distributed; h joins the spinal recur- rent branch to supply the interior of the vertebral canal, and / passes for a little way along the gray ramus communieans, but leaves it to be distributed to the sides of the vertebrae and intercostal or lumbar vessels. Gray fibres to the pre- vertebral plexuses, vessels, or viscera, are represented by m, m ; and n, n are non- luedullated fibres joining neigh- boring ganglia. In addition to these, seusory fibres from the ganglia of the posterior spinal nerve-roots pass through the sympathetic ganglia to vis- cera without interru^jtion. CAVERNOUS PLEXUS FIRST CERVICAL NERVE EIGHTH CERVICAL NERVE FIRST THORACIC NERVE LLARY NERVE SPHENO-PALATINE QANQLION The Sympathetic in the Neck. In the neck there are only three ganglia (Fig. 692). The upper one, however, is an inch or more in length, and is fre- quently constricted at intervals. It is connected with the four upper cervical nerves and ap- pears to consist of four ganglia fused together. The second ganglion is small, but is connected with two nerves ; and the third ganglion, intermediate in size, is connected watli the lower two cervical nerves. These ganglia and their intervening Corel lie in front of the trans- verse processes of the cervical vertebrte, being separated from them by the rectus capitis an- terior major above and longus colli below with the preverte- bral fascia. The common and internal carotid arteries and the carotid sheath lie in front of them, and the vagus nerve lies to the outer side. The Superior Cervical Ganglion.—This ganglion is fusiform in shape, reddish- . LOWER CERVICAL GANGLION Fiu. 692.—Diagram of the cervical sympathetic. (Testut.)