186 THE BONES. above, where it rests upon the nasal process of the frontal. Below it forms part of the roof of the nose, and presents a longitudinal groove for the nasal nerve. This groove ends in a small notch near the inner end of the thin lower border, which attaches the lateral nasal cartilage. The short, thick upper border articulates with the nasal notch of the frontal. The long outer border articulates with the nasal process of the maxilla. The inner border, tliicker above, meets that of its fellow, with which it is prolonged backward into a median crest, which from above downward rests upon the nasal spine of the frontal, the vertical plate of the ethmoid, and the septal cartilage of the nose. Fig. 209. — Nasal Oi<slfiecdion proceeds from a single centre in membrane before. (Testut.) overlying cartilage, which is absorbed. At birth the bone is relatively broad. The shape of the nose depends largely upon that of these bones. THE LACHRYMAL BONE. The lachrymcd bone (on unguis), " nail-bone " (Figs. 210, 211), is a thin quadri- lateral scale of bone forming the front of the inner wall of the orbit. Its external or orbital surface presents a larger, flat hind or orbited part, and a smaller grooved fore part, forming the lachrymal suleus or r/roove for the lachrymal sac. These por- tions are separated by a sharp vertical ridge, the lachrymal crest, which is prolonged forward at its lower end into the hamulus, which often articulates with the lachrymal tubercle of the maxilla, and bounds the orifice of the lachrymal canal externally. Fig. 211.—Right lachrymal bone, inner surfaced (Testut.) The internal surface closes some of the front ethmoidal cells above, and below looks into the middle meatus of the nose. The anterior border articulates with the nasal process of the maxilla, the superior with the internal angular process of the frontal, and the posterior with the orbital plate of the ethmoid. The inferior border behind the crest joins the orbital plate of the maxilla, and in front it is prolonged downward as the descending or turbinal process, which joins the lachry- mal process of the inferior turbinate bone to complete the lachrymal canal. The lachrymal ossifies from a single centre in membrane, and is a diminishing element. THE MALAR BONE. The quadrangular malar bone (Figs. 212, 213) forms the jirominence of the cheek and helps to separate the orbit from the temporal fossa. The outer surface is convex, and presents near its centre the orifice of the malar canal. The concave inner surface looks into the temporal fossa above, the zygomatic fossa below, and articulates in front by a rough triangular surface with the malar process of the maxilla. The four angles are directed vertically and horizontally. The prominent, serrated upper angle ov fronted process articulates with the external angular process of the frontal, and the posterior angle or zygomatic process is bevelled above, and articulates with the end of the zygoma. The sinuous temporal border between these two angles is continuous with the upper edge of the zygoma below and the tem- TURBINAL PROCESS Fig. 210.—Right lachrymal bone, outer surface. (Testut.)