THE TENTH, PNEUMOGASTBIC, OB VAGUS NEBVE. 595 DUCTU ARTERIOSUS Fir;. 649.—Relations of pneumofrastric and recurrent laryngeal nerves to the great vessels. (W. Kelller.) On the rigid side it arises at the root of the neck, in front of the subclavian artery, winds beneath, and then upward and inward behind that vessel, and behind the common carotid and inferior thyroid arteries, to the recess between the _, oesophagus and trachea. At the lower bor- S der of the cricoid cartilage it enters the ^ phai-ynx by passing beneath the inferior ^ < constrictor. ^ z ^ Under cover of the ala of the thyroid > S < cartilage it divides into branches to all the intrinsic laryngeal muscles except the crico- thyroid, and to the mucous membrane of the larynx below the riraa glottidis, joining the internal laryngeal nerve. Ill its course upward it gives oflF thoracic cardiac branches, twigs to the inferior cer- vical ganglion of the sympathetic, oesopha- geal and tracheal branches, and muscular twigs to the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. The left recurrent laryngeal nerve springs from the vagus as it crosses the; arch of the aorta, winds round the concavity of the arch just behind the ductus arteriosus, and runs upward behind the origin of the left common carotid artery to reach the oesophagus. The rest of its course is similar to that of the right nerve. \g) Cervical cardiac and thoracic cardiac branches are given off by each pneu- mogastric nerve. There are usually two superior cervical cardiac branches, one inferior cervical cardiac, and two or more thoracic cardiac branches—the latter arising from the trunk and recurrent nerve on the right side, from the recurrent nerve only on the left side. These for the most part join cardiac branches of the sympathetic, and all, with one exception, go to the deep cardiac plexus, the left inferior cervical cardiac nerve being the only one which goes directly to the superficial cardiac plexus. The superior cervical cardiac nerves join the corresponding branches of the sympathetic beneath the carotid sheath. The left inferior cervical cardiac nerve descends on the left of the horizontal portion of the aortic arch, having the left phrenic nerve in front of it and the superior cervical cardiac branch of the sympathetic behind it. It joins the superficial cardiac plexus. The right inferior cervical cardiac nerve runs downward on the side of the brachiocephalic artery and trachea to the deep cardiac plexus. The right thoracic cardiac nerves, two or three in number, arise from the vagus trunk and from the recurrent laryngeal nerve. They run inward to the bifurcation of the trachea, where the dee]> cardiac plexus is formed. On the left side the thoracic cardiac branches spring from the recurrent laryngeal nerve only. [h) The pulmonary branches form two plexuses, one in front of and one behind the root of the lung. The anterior piilmoyiary plexus is small, consisting of a few filaments which spring from the vagus above the root of the lung, and form a meshwork in front of the bronchus, uniting with sympathetic fibres from the ])ulmonary artery. The posterior pulmonary jjlexus is large and important, involving the whole trunk of the nerve. Behind the root of the lung the vagus spreads out into an intricate network and is supplemented by fibres from the second, third, and fourth thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic ; from these plexuses branches accompany the bronchi in all their ramifications. A free interchange of fibres takes place between the plexuses of the two sides.