INTR OD UCTOB Y. 28 group of Anglo-Saxon names by which it was formerly known. The free end of the penis, the " head," or glans penis (literally "the gland of the penis," from its resemblance to some internally located secreting glands), is covered by a long, movable fold of integument, the "foreskin," or "prepuce" {prepufiim). At the tip of the glans is a little slit, meatus urinarius, the termination of the com- mon passage-way of the urine and semen. Behind the penis hangs the " bag " (scrotum) in which are suspended the essential male organs of generation, the two " balls " or " stones." which are more usually called by their Latin name testes (witnesses) or by the Anglicized diminutive of this word, " testicles." In the female the group of external genitals is designated by the name vulva, for whieli modern English dictionaries, with a fastidiousness not always imitated in popular speech, attbrd no single-word synonym. These structures are sometimes called pudenda, which means " things to be ashamed of"—as if such a criticism could justly be applied to the organs which are necessary for the perpetuation of the human race. The vulva presents a fore-and-aft cleft, which starts just below the pubes and runs backward between the thighs. This fissure is bounded later- ally by thick folds of skin, labia majora (the greater lips), upon separation of which are seen the clitoris (which is the suppressed representative of the penis), two thin folds of membrane, labia minora (the smaller lips), the meatus urinarius, and the opening of the vagina, the tube which leads to the " womb" (uterus). Behind the external genitals of both sexes, between the thighs, and in front of the lower opening of the bowels is a narrow antero-posterior area called jmineum, a word with no vernacular equivalent (Figs. 4 and 5). The rear limit of the perineum is marked by the outer opening of the anus, the terminal portion of the alimentary canal. The posterior surface of the trunk (Fig. 6), generally called the " back" (dorsum), shows in the middle line from end to end a furrow in which appears a continuous series of bony prominences, each of which belongs to a separate segment of the pile of bones called the spinal column, or, naming the whole from a part, merely the spine or back-bone. Between the lower margin of the thoracic cage and the crest of the hip on each side, in the region known as the small of the back, is a "loin" (Imnbus). Projecting from the trunk are the " limbs" or " extremities" (membra or extremitates,) arranged in two pairs, an upper and a lower. Each pair has a bilateral symmetry, and therefore the statements which apply to one limb need not be repeated for its mate of the opposite side. The " upper limb " or " upper extremity" (memhrum superius or extremitas supeyior) is divided naturally into four distinct segments. These, in regular order from above downward, are shoulder, arm, forearm, and hand. The "shoulder" (omos) connects the trunk and arm. The "arm" (brachium) extends between the shoulder- and elbow-joints. Beneath the shoulder-joint, and between the side of the chest and the arm, is a pyramidal space, with its base presenting downward, called the "arm-pit" (axilla). The "forearm" is known as a/ntebrachium, which is the exact Latin equivalent of the English name, and also as cubitus, from which comes the name of a measure of length anciently employed. It includes all between the elbow- and wrist-joints. Its upper end is marked behind by a prom- inence, the " elbow " (ancon). The fourth and final segment of the upper limb is the "hand" (marats). This is subdivided into a proximal portion, the "wrist" (carpms), a central part, which constitutes the body of the hand, the metacarpus (meaning " beyond the cai'pus"), and a distal part, the digits" (digiti). The front surface of the metacarpus is the "palm" (pcdma), and the hind surface is the " back" (dorsum manus). There are five digits to each hand, numerically named, beginning with that farthest from the median line of the body and counting inward. They have also other designations, which are used with equal or greater frequency. The first digit (digitus primus) is the "thumb" (pol.lex); the second (digitus secundus) is the " fore finger" (digitus index); the third (digitus tertius) is the "middle finger" (digitus medius); the fourth (digitus quartus) is