THE MUSCLES. 250 The Order of Study.—The muscles will be considered in the following order: The muscles of the upper limb. The muscles of the lower limb. The muscles of the trunk. (a) those of the bach, including the dorsum of the neck. (b) those of the abdomen. \ (c) those of the thorax. The muscles of the neck, at the front and sides. The muscles of the head. The muscles of the tongue, pharynx, and soft palate will be presented in con- nection with the organs of digestion ; those of the larynx with the respiratory system ; those of the eye and ear with sjjecial sense organs; and those of the perineum with the genitals. Illustrative Pictures are provided so liberally in this chajiter, and show certain details so clearly, that it is practicable to omit from the verbal descriptions many things which are usually given in them, and this, too, not only without diminu- tion of clearness, but often with distinct advantage in this regard, since facts can usually be more quickly apprehended and more firmly held when presented bv pictorial means, than when introduced into the mind through the medium of words. Thus, the form of a muscle, the most important relations of its contractile and tendinous portions, and its princi])al relations to neighboring muscles are generally shown so plainly in the drawings of dissections, that their description can safely and profitably be omitted from the text. The Outline Drawings of indkklual muscles .s/ioic i7i each instance the location and propo7'tionate size of the areas of osseous origin and insertion, and also the margins of the entire muscle from the selected point of vieio, thus suggesting its action. In cases where a surface of attachment or a part of the outline is not visible from the chosen point, the concealed portion is drawn in dots or broken line, and is represented as if the intervening skeletal structure were transparent. Minuteness of verbal description of muscular attachments, while morphologi- cally interesting, is of little or no practical value to the physician and surgeon, and, consequently, is not attempted. The essential facts are presented in the text, and in most cases are abimdantly illustrated in the outline drawings. Connection with Neighboring Soft Parts.—The attachments to superjacent fas- ciae, intermuscular septa, and other soft parts will often be omitted from the text for the sake of brevity, especially when these are of insignificant extent, or have already been mentioned in connection with the grou]) of muscles concerned. It may usually be assumed that a muscle has some attachment to the fibrous struct- ures—investing sheets, partitions between it and its immediate neighbors, liga- ments, etc.—with which it is in close contact. The Action assigned to a muscle is that eflFected by its contraction from a fixed origin to a movable insertion—the direct primary action—unless otherwise speci- fied. The direct secondary and all reversed actions can be worked out correctly and easily by one who has learned the direct primary action and the anatomical reasons for it. Classification of the Limb Muscles.—The classification of the muscles of the limbs which is here given is physiological, being based upon their primary and most characteristic action. Although this grouping is very different from that Avdiich is generally followed, it is believed to be more useful as an aid in learning the facts of greatest importance in myology, and in applying the knowledge thus gained in medical and surgical practice. Of course, it is not claimed that this classification is perfect—none Avhich rests ujion a physiological basis can be ; but long employment of it has demonstrated its utility in attracting and holding the interest of the student, and this mainly because there is kept constantly in view the application of the facts which he is learning. After the muscles of a limb have been described, their classification on a regional basis will be presented.