644 THE NERVES. The Middle Cervical Ganglion.—The middle cervical ganglion is much the smallest of the three. It is sometimes absent and occasionally double. When single it is usually situated where the cord crosses the inferior thyroid artery opposite the sixth or seventh cervical vertebra. It is joined by gray rami com- municautes to the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. It gives off thyreoid branches, which run on the inferior thyroid artery to the thyroid gland, communicating with the recuri'ent and external laryngeal and the upper cardiac nerves. The middle cardiac branch of the sympathetic, springing from this ganglion on the right side, descends in front of or behind the subclavian artery and on the side of the trachea to the deep cardiac plexus, communicating with the upper cardiac nerve and recurrent laryngeal branch of the vagns. On the left side this nerve descends between the left carotid and subclavian arteries to the deep cardiac plexus, uniting on its way with the left inferior cardiac nerve. The Inferior Cervical Ganglion.—The inferior cervical ganglion is larger than the last, and irregular or semilunar in shape. It lies just over the neck of the fii'st rib and under cover of the vertebral artery. To the middle cervical gan- glion it is united by two or more cords, one usually passing behind the vertebral artery, one in front of it, and one forming a loop round the subclavian artery (ansa subclavia Vieussenii). It may blend with the first thoracic ganglion or be united to it by a short intervening cord. Gray rami commv.nicantes pass from this ganglion to the seventh and eighth cervical nerves. Its efferent branches are the inferior cardiac nerve and offsets to blood-vessels. The inferior cardiac nerve, springing from this ganglion or the first thoracic, on the right side communicates behind the subclavian artery with the middle cardiac and recurrent laryngeal nerves, on the left side nsually forms a common trunk with the middle cardiac nerve. Both go to the deep cardiac plexus. The vascular branches of this ganglion and the first thoracic unite in forming the plexus on the vertebral artery, and ascend on that vessel to the basilar artery and its branches within the craninm. (Note.—The gross anatomy of the cervical sympathetic gives no idea of its true anatomical relations as revealed by physiological experiments and patho- logical phenomena. The physiological connections as at present understood may be summarized as follows : 1. Pupillo-dilator fibres pass by white I'ami communicantes from the first, second, and third thoracic nerves, ascend in the sympathetic cord to the supei'ior cervical ganglion to form arborizations round its cells. Thence gray fibres j^ass to the Gasserian ganglion and reach the eyeball by the ophthalmic division of the fifth and long ciliary nerves. 2. Motor fibres to the involuntary muscles of the orbit and eyelids from the fourth and fifth thoracic nerves follow a similar course. 3. Vasomotor fibres to the head, secretory fibres to the submaxillary gland, and pilomotor fibres to the head and neck are derived from the upper thoracic nerves and reach their areas of distribution after similar interruption in the supe- rior cervical ganglion. 4. The accelerator fibres of the heart are derived from the upper thoracic spinal nerves, and end similarly in the middle and lower cervical ganglia, gray fibres in the cervical cardiac nerves completing the connection.) The Thoracic Portion of the Gangliated Cord. In the thorax the sympathetic cord (Fig. 693) presents eleven, seldom twelve, ganglia, the first thoracic ganglion frequently blending with the last cervical. When existing separately the first ganglion lies beneath the head of the first rib; the rest, with the exception of the twelfth, lie on the heads of the ribs, under cover of the pleura, the intervening cord lying in front of the intercostal vessels. The twelfth thoracic ganglion approaches nearer to the middle line, lying on the