697 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. Segments of the Alimentary Tube.—The alimentary canal is naturally divided into a number of segments, which occur in the following order, beginning at the upper end : mouth, pharynx, gullet, stomach, small intestine, large intestine, anal canal. It is usual to reckon the anal canal as a part of the large intestine ; but, later in this chapter, it will be seen that there is good reason for giving it a place as a separate segment, since it should be regarded as a tubular passage rather than as a mere opening. Tunics of the Alimentary Canal.—Every portion of the inner surface of the canal is covered by mucous metabranc, with the exception presented by the crowns of the teeth. Even this, to the philosophical anatomist, does not seem an excep- tion ; for he recalls the fact that the teeth, though so dense and white as to aiford a very striking contrast to the soft and reddish membrane from which they pro- ject, are epithelial in their mode of develojniient, and that the glistening, dry enamel, which encrusts their crowns, is strictly and wholly epithelium, originally like that which surmounts the dull and moist mucosa. Outside of this inner, mucous tunic is one of areolar tisme, almost everywhere very distinct, but, in a few places of no great extent, very condensed. Still another coat is found exter- nal to the areolar, the muscular, usually arranged in two layers, an internal, whose fibres are circular in direction, and an external, in which they run longi- tudinally. Finally, in that portion of the canal, which lies below the diaphragm, there is almost everywhere a fourth tunic, composed of serous membrane. The Service of each Tunic.—Calling; to mind the character and functions of these various membranes and tissues, as described in the chapter on histology, we shall quickly obtain a general idea of the physiological capabilities of the tube whose wall they compose. 3Iucous membrane is a soft, moist structure, secreting a glairy fluid, which serves to smear the surface, and thus at once prevents its becoming dry, and pro- tects from the injury which the contact of foreign substances might otherwise occasion. In the larger part of the alimentary canal the membrane contains great numbers of small, tubular glands, which, instead of secreting mucus alone, as is the case with the corresponding structures in the respiratory tubes, the urinary bladder, and other organs, maiuifacture different fluids, possessed of such qualities that they can effect important changes in food which is taken, and put it in condition to undergo absorption into the blood and incorporation into the tissues of the body. Mucosa is not an elastic structure : it will bear very little stretching without harm. But we find that, where it lines hollow organs, which are liable to become distended, it is, at almost every part of the surface, so loose in the collapsed condition of the viscus that it is deeply wrinkled, and lies in well-marked folds. When the cavity is filled, these loose ridges are smoothed out and disappear, and the mucosa is evenly spread, but not rendered tense; and, thus, it suffers no harm. This |)assive movement of the membrane would not be practicable except for the areolar coat, which connects it with the muscular. Areolar tissue is strong, flexible, elastic, and full of spaces in the meshes of its network. It, therefQre, holds the mucosa firmly but gently in place at all times, regulating its Avrinkling so that its folds are evenly distributed, and permitting its extension without dis- placement from its proper relation to the muscular coat. The areolar coat affords an easy and safe bed for the vessels and nerves, whose twigs, and rootlets, and filaments form networks throughout the two tunics, between which this coat is situated. The muscular coat is that by which active movements of the tul)e are pro- duced. Its tissue is nearly all of the involuntary variety. Its movements are mostly of a vermicular kind, and serve to carry the contents of the canal from the upper to the lower end. The serous membrane clothes the tube in its abdominal portion—that in which there is the largest variation in the size of the organs, the greatest necessity for activity of movement, and the most frequent liability to pressure from without.