THE CARPAL ARTICULATIONS. 225 7. The Carpal Articulations. The bones of each of the two rows of the carpus, exclusive of the pisiform, are connected together by dorsal, ixdmar, and interosseous ligaments, passing nearly transversely between adjacent bones. The palmar are stronger than the dorsal ligaments. The joint between the pisiform and cuneiform bones is arthrodial, and has a thin, Fig. 245.—The articulations of the carpus. The synovial sacs are represented as distended. (Testut.) loose capsule lined by synovial membrane and strengthened by a fibrous band passing to the hook of the unciform, by another passing to the base of the fifth metacarpal, and by the insertion of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris from above. The Medio-carpal or Transverse Carpal Articulation.—This joint is between the lower aspect of the first carpal row, whicli is concave except for the convex outer part of the scaphoid, and the upper surface of the second carpal row, con- cavo-convex from without inward. It is united by dorsal and palmar, internal and external lateral ligaments. The lateral ligaments, prolonged from the lateral ligaments of the wrist-joint, connect the lateral surfaces of the outer and inner bones of the two rows. The dorsal ligaments extend obliquely between the dorsal surfaces of the bones of the two rows. The stronger palmar ligaments are com- posed of fibres which for the most part radiate from the os magnum to the bones of the upper row. The synovial m^emhrane is extensive. From the medio-carpal joint it sends two processes upward between the three bones of the upper row (exclusive of the pisiform); and between the four bones of the lower row it sends three processes downward, which are continued into the four inner carpo-metacarpal and the three intermetacarpal articulations. It is nearly always separated from that of the wrist by the interosseous ligaments between the bones of the upper row, which make their convex upper surfaces uniformly even. The nerve-supply of the radio-carpal and carpal joints is from the ulna and median in front and the posterior interosseous behind.