692 THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. hairs, the cilia or eyelashes, which curve away from the palpebral aperture. Behind these and nearer to the posterior angle are the openings of the ducts of the Meibomian glands, twenty or thirty in number and more numerous in the Fig. 739.—The tarsi and thtir ligaments—rigtit eye, front view. (Testut.) upper lid than in the lower. There are also modified sweat and sebaceous glands in this situation. For the first fifth inch out from the inner canthus the divergence of the lids is very gradual and then suddenly becomes more marked. Along this part the lids have no cilia and are not in contact with the eyeball. Nestling in between them in this situation, and resting against the globe of the eye, is a little fleshy jirotuberance, the caruncula lachrymalis (" the little fleshy body pertaining to tears"), which has all the characteristics of true skin, although quite isolated from the adjacent integument. The depression here between the lids, from the bottom of which the caruncle protrudes, is known as the lacus lachrymalis (" lake of tears ")• Just at the points where the divergence of the lids becomes suddenly more pronounced a small prominence may be noticed on the margin of each lid. This is the papilla lachrymalis, and on its summit is the minute opening, punctum lachrymale of the lachrymal canal, leading into the lachrymal sac. The lower punctum is slightly farther out than the upper. The puncta are applied to the surface of the globe and are not seen unless the lids ai'e slightly everted. Structure of the Eyelids (Fig. 740).—On their superficial aspect the eyelids have a covering of skin, very thin and delicate, and containing fine hairs, sebaceous follicles, and sweat glands. On their posterior surface they are covered by a mucous membrane, called the conjunctiva, which, at a certain distance back from the free margin, is reflected onto the eyeball. Between these two coverings various other structures enter into the formation of the lid. Imme- diately beneath the skin is a layer of loose, fatless, areolar tissue, which provides for the laxity of the integument. Embedded in this tissue is the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, the sphincter of the palpebral aperture, serving by its con- traction to approximate the lids, and thus close the eye. Deeper than this is the tarsus (often, though improperly, called " tarsal cartilage ") (Fig. 739), a thin plate of dense, fibrous tissue devoid of cartilage cells, whicli strengthens the margin of the lid, and stretches from the inner to the outer orbital wall. The upper tarsus is much stronger and thicker than the lower, and about twice as wide. Each tarsus is thickest at its free border and widest in the middle. They thin off" toAvard the attached edges above and below, and taper toward the ends. Their attachments to the inner and outer orbital mai'gins are known as the inner