803 THE TESTICLES. testicle, which is fixed by the gubcriiacuhim, is probable. It must be noted too that the peritoneal pouch precedes the testicle, and, since the former is attached to a lower point in the gubernatndura, this fact may be explained in the same way. After descent has been completed, the remains of the central guberuacular VAS DEFERENS Fig. 871.—Right testicle, its internal surfiice. (Testut.) band may be found in the scrotal ligament already described ; the lateral bands, having ceased to act after the testicle has reached the external ring, are di'awn down, and may be found in the form of scattered Imndles (the internal cremaster of Henle), lying amidst tlie other elements of the spermatic cord. The pei'itoneal sac which preceded the testicle is at first continuous with the general peritoneal cavity. Shortly before birth, however, the upper part of the tube of communication becomes closed, and this ol)literati(m extends gradually downward to within a short distance of the testicle. That ])ortion of the sac which surrounds the testicle is thereljy completely cut off from the peritoneal cavity, and forms the tunica vaginalis. The (li)literated portion of the pouch usually remains as a fibro-cellular thread, lying among the other elements of the cord. Sometimes this may be traced as a distinct band from the peritoneum at the internal ring; above to the tunica vaginalis below ; sometimes it is lost on the cord. Occasionallv the tube of communication remains open, and then the abdominal viscera may pass into the tunica vaginalis, forming the congenital variety of hernia. In other cases the tube contracts, and forms a very minute canal, which may be traced downward a greater or less distance on the cord. A similar minute tul)e of peritoneum, observed in connection with the round ligament in the female, is called the canal of Niivk. One or both testicles may fail to reach the scrotum until shortly after birth, or their descent may be delayed until ])uberty ; they may even remain permanently within the abdomen, or be arrested at any part of their course. The Tunica Vaginalis (" sheathlike coat") is a closed serous sac, of peritoneal origin, which invests the testicles and lines the scrotum, and may, therefore, be divided into visceral and parietal portions.