THE BONES. 144 OS magnum, and trapezoid in the foetus, is occasionally ossified, but usually suppressed. THE METACARPAL BONES. The metacarpus ("beyond the carpus") (Figs. 164, 165) contains five long bones, which support the fingers and form the skeleton of the palm. They diverge slightly from each other below, and, besides continuing the transverse arch of the carpus, they are slightly curved longitudinally, forming the hollow of the palm. They are numbered from without inward. The first is the broadest and shortest, the second the longest, and the rest decrease in length from the third to the fifth. General Characteristics.—The upper end or base is irregularly cuboidal, and presents two non-articular, rough surfaces for ligamentous and muscular attach- ments, a broader dorsal and a narrower palmar surface; and three articular surfaces, an upper for the carpus, and an inner and outer for articulation and ligamentous xinion with each other. The shaft is triangular and slightly curved, with its concavity in front. On the dorsal surface a ridge starts at the carpal end, and divides into two lines, each of which ends in a dorsal tubercle on the side of the head, the two enclosing a triangular surface covered by the extensor ten- dons. The dorsal surface on the sides of the ridge attaches the dorsal interossei muscles. The two lateral surfaces separated by a palmar ridge alford attachment to the palmar interossei muscles. The carpal end of the shaft is the most slender part. The shaft of the first metacarpal is broad and flattened, its dorsal surface is smooth, and its palmar aspect looks inward. The head presents for articulation with the first phalanx a rounded articular surface, broader and extending farthest on the palmar aspect, where it projects into two lateral cornua, or palmar tubercles, separated by a groove for the flexor tendons. The sides of the head are flattened,^ and marked by a depression for the lateral ligaments. The articular surface of the head of the first metacarpal bone is flatter than that of the others, and its two palmar tubercles are prominent for the two sesamoid bones in the flexor brevis poUicis tendons. Special Characteristics.—Besides those above given, these concern mainly the bases or carpal extremities. That of the first metacarpal has a saddle-shaped facet for the trapezium and no lateral facet, but a tubercle externally for the extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis. That of the second metaca,rpcd has no external lateral facet, and three superior facets—a large, concave, central one for the trapezoid, and marginal ones for the os magnum and trapezium. Dorsally, near the external angle it has a tubercle for the extensor carpi radialis longus. That of the third has a prominent projection, the styloid process, at the outer and upper angle of the dorsum, below which the extensor carpi radialis brevis is inserted. That of the fourth has two facets externally, corresponding to two internally on the thirds and, besides the main facet for the unciform above, there is a small facet for the OS magnum on the outer angle dorsally. The base of the fifth'has no facet inter- nally, but a tuberosity for the extensor carpi ulnaris. Its upper end is saddle- shaped and directed slightly outward. Ossification of the metacarpal bones and phalanges proceeds from one primary centre in the shaft, and a secondary centre in the base of the first metacarpal bone and of the phalanges and in the head of the other metacarpals. The secondary centre joins the shaft by the twentieth year. In the terminal phalanges the shaft centre begins in the distal end. THE PHALANGES. Of the fourteen phalanges ("ranks") (Figs. 164, 165), each finger contains three and the thumb two. Like all long bones, they have two extremities and a shaft. The shafts, semi-cylindrical, are convex dorsally, and the rough margins of the flat palmar surfaces give attachment to the sheaths of the flexor tendons.