THE CEBEBBO-SPINAL AXIS. 516 parallel with the longitudinal. As has already been seen, the upturned end of the Sylvian fissure is within the parietal lobe. The gyri are the post-central (poste- rior central, ascending parietal) just behind the central fissure; the superior parietal, above the intraparietal fissure; the swpra-marginal, above the hind part of the Sylvian fissure and arching over its end; and the angular, which occupies the remainder of the area, and is at the lower, rear corner of the lobe. Continuous with the lateral surface over the edge of the longitudinal fissure is the mesial surface of the parietal lobe ; but it has less width than the external surface, inasmuch as the calloso-marginal fissure does not end coincidently with the central, but a little to its rear, and the difference makes an addition to the frontal lobe by subtraction from the expected domain of the parietal. The mesial ])arietal gyri make a four-sided area, called the precuneus, from its relation to the wedge-shaped occipital gyrus adjoining, and "quadrate lobule" from its squarish shape. Occipital Gyri (Figs. 560-563).—The convex area of the occipital lobe is con- ventionally divided into three gyri by two fissures ; but these are very inconstant and irregular, and the tyjjical ari-angement is apparently not yet discovered— Fig. 563.—The mesial and tentorial surfaces of the left liemisphere, showing the gyri. The fissures have, been named in Fig. 558. certainly it is not agreed upon by the anatomists of the largest observation. The triangular form of the mesial occipital surface has led to its being named cuneus (" wedge "). It is continuous with the convex surface over the edge of the longi- tudinal fissure. Temporal Gyri (Figs. 560, 562, 563).—The temporal (temporo-sphenoidal) lobe is marked by three fissures, which have a general fore-and-aft direction, two of them appearing on the lateral surface, and being called respectively the first or superior temporal or parallel fissure (the latter name from its relation to the pos- terior limb of the Sylvian fissure) and the second or inferior temporal Assure. The third temporcd fissure is largely on the line between the lateral and under surfaces. The front half of the collateral fissure separates the temporal from the limbic lobe, and its rear half lies in the hind part of the temporal. The temporal gyri are the first (superior), the second, (middle), and the third (inferior) on the outer surface, and, on the base or tentorial surface, the suhcollatercd, which is beneath the collateral fissure, and the subcalcarine, which lies between the calcarine fissure and the rear of the collateral. Limbic Gyri (Figs. 562, 563).—The limbic lobe consists primarily of the cal- losal gyrus, which arches over the callosum, and the continuation of this which courses forward on top of the temporal lobe, and is known as the hippocampal, or