125 OSSIFICATION OF THE VERTEBRA. from the rest of the body by the cartilaginous neuro-central suture. At birth a vertebra consists of three ossiHed parts—a body and the two lateral halves of the neural arch—connected by cartilage. Later five epiphyseal centres appear— three of which form tips for the spinous and transverse processes, and two form thin plates on the upper and lower sur- faces of the bodies. The mammillary processes of the lumbar vertebrse have each a small centre. The costal pro- UPPER EPIPHYSEAL DISC SPl NOUS \PROCESS LATERAL PART BODY Fig. 146.—Beginning of ossification in the carti- laginous vertebra of a foetus. (Testut.) EPIPHYSIS ON TRANSVERSE PROCESS EPIPHYSIS ON SPINOUS PROCESS Ossification of a thoracic vertebra. (After cesses of the sixth and seventh cervical usually, of the first lumbar sometimes, and occasionally of other cervical vertebrse, are formed from separate centres. These may remain separate and become cervical or lumbar ribs. The various centres are not wholly united until about the twenty-fifth year. The atkiH has regularly three centres—one for either half of the neural arch, formed by the lateral masses and the dorsal arch, and the third for the ventral arch. The axh (Fig. 148) ossifies much like other vertebrse, but its odontoid process has two laterally placed centres, wliich unite together, and later with the body of the axis, though the centre of the intervening cartilage persists through HALF OF ODONTOID PROCESS EPIPHYSIS ON ODONTOID PROCESS HALF OF ODONTOID PROCESS LATERAL PART SPINOUS PROCESS LATERAL PART / LOWER epiphyseal' DISC Fig. 148.—Ossification of the axis. (After Tes- AURICULAR EPIPHYSIS COSTAL( AURICULAR EPIPHYSIS Fig. 149.—Ossification of the sacrum—horizontal sec- tion through first piece. (After Testut.) life. An epiphyseal centre also occurs for the apex of the odontoid process. The sacrum (Fig. 149) also ossifies essentially like other vertebrte, excei)t that there are separate centres for the costal processes of the upper three vertebrse, and the auricular articular surfaces have two secondary centres each. The inter- vertebral discs ossify on the surface, but not in the centre, from the eighteenth to the twenty-fifth year, from below upward. The coccyx is cartilaginous at birth, and each segment has commonly but one centre. The lower three ankylose before middle life, and these Avith the first still later, while bony union with the sacrum belongs to advanced life. Variations.—Two or a single lateral centre may exist in a vertebral body, forming a divided or a half vertebra. In the fifth lumbar vertebra the neural arch often has four centres. The pairs on either side may fail to unite with each other, causing a separation of the laminae and inferior articular processes from the pedicles, etc. Serial Morphology of the Vertebrae.—The similarity of construction of the vertebrse in each region of the column is evident from the study of their develop- ment and ossification. Centra or bodies are present for all the vertebrse in man.