381 THE ARTERIES. A SYLLABUS OF THE SYSTEMIC ARTERIAL SYSTEM. The systemic arterial system begins as the aorta from the left ventricle at a point behind the left half of the sternum on a level with the lower border of the third costal cartilage. From this point it passes upward, forward, and to the riglit, to a point on a level with the upper border of the second costal cartilage. It then curves backward and to the left, to the lower border of the fnirth thoracic vertebra ; and then passes downward on the bodies of the thoracic vertebrae, being placed in a position to the left of the median line at first, but gradually approach- ing the median line as it passes downward. The vessel then passes through the aortic opening in the diaphragm, passes downward on the bodies of the upper four lumbar vertebrae, and on the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra divides into the two common iliac arteries. The aorta is divided into three portions, an ardi extend- ing from its origin to the lower body of the fifth thoracic vertebra, the thoracic aorta from the lower border of the fifth thoracic to the aortic opening in the dia- phragm, and the abdominal aorta from the aortic opening in the diaphragm to the body of the fourth lumbar, its point of division into the common iliacs. Imme- diately above the aortic valves the arch gives off two vessels, the right and left coronary ar'terie.^, which supply the heart. The transverse portion of the arch, as a rule, gives off three vessels, the hrachio-cephalic (innominate), the left common carotid, and the left subclavian. The brachio-cephalic (" arm-head ") is a short vessel, an inch and a half in length, extending from the transverse portion of the arch to the right sterno-clavicular articulation, where it divides into the right common carotid aiid rigid snbclarian. Thus the right subclavian and right carotid differ in their origin and length from the left subclavian and left carotid. The common carotid on both sides terminates at the superior border of the thyroid cartilage, by dividing into the internal and external carotids, and, as a rule, the common carotids have no other branches. The external carotid terminates a lit- tle below the condyle of the jaw by dividing into the temporal and internal max- illary. The external gives off in addition to its two terminal branches mentioned, the superior thyroid, the lingual, the facial, the occipital, the posterior auricular, and the ascending pharyngeal. Speaking broadly, it supplies the structures of the neck and the face (with the exception of the contents of the orbit and the integument of the forehead), the scalp, and the greater portion of the dura mater. These branches of the external carotid again subdivide into branches whicli will be studied in detail later. The internal carotid which begins at the superior border of the thyroid cartilage passes up to and through tlie carotid canal in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, enters the cranial cavity, and breaks up into branches which supply the greater part of the brain and contents of the orbit; the vertebral, a branch of the subclavian, as we shall find, assists the carotid in supplying the brain. The subclavian artery begins on the right side from the brachio-cephalic, on the left from the arch of the aorta, and passes outward to the lower border of the first rib, where the vessel changes its name and becomes the axillary. The sub- clavian is divided into three portions according to its relation to the scalenus anterior. It gives off as branches the thyroid axis, the vertebrcd, the internal mammary, and the superior intercostal. The axillary hecrms at the lower border of the first rib and extends to the lower border of the axillary space, where the ves- sel changes its name and becomes the bi'achial. The axillary is divided into three parts according to its relation to the pectoralis minor muscle, which is in front of it. The axillary gives off the superior thoracic, the acromio-thoracic, the long thoracic, the alar thoracic, the subscapular, the anterior and posterior circumflex. The brachial extends from the lower border of the axillary space to a point a half inch below the elbow, where it divides into the radial and ulnar. It gives off in its course the superior lyrofunda, muscular, nutrient, inferior profunda, and