THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 207 vertebrae, the deep over one or two. Its smooth, shining, dorsal surface is sep- arated from the dura by loose connective tissue except at the foramen magnum. It limits flexion. The joints between the articular processes are arthrodial or gliding joints. They are provided with synovial cavities, enclosed by cap.^ular ligaments, which are loosest in the neck, strongest and tighter in the lumbar region, and tightest in the thoracic region. In the neck the inner part of the capsule is formed by the elastic tissue of the ligamenta subflava, which form more and more of the capsule in the thoracic and lumbar regions. Intermediate Ligaments Uniting the Neural Arches.—The Urjamenta mhflava, composed of yellow fibrous tissue, connect the laminae of adjacent vertebrae from the axis to the sacrum. In the upper two spaces they are continued, with less, or no, elastic tissue, under special names. Superiorly they are attached to the ventral surface of the laminae, above their lower borders, and inferiorly to the upper borders and the adjacent parts of the dorsal surfaces. They become thicker and stronger below, and are best seen from in front. Laterally they are continuous with, and form part of, the capsular ligaments, reaching as far as the intervertebral foramina; mesially the lateral halves unite beneath the roots of the spines, from which point the interspinous ligaments ex- tend back as membranous bands between the adjacent borders of the spines. These are best marked in the lumbar region, where the fibres extend from the root of one spine to the tip of the next above. In the cervical region they are replaced by the interspinales muscles. They extend dorsally to the supra- spinom ligaments, which form a continuous cord along the tips of the spines from the spine of the seventh cervical vertebra to the coccyx, covering the lower end of the sacral canal. They consist of longitudinal fibres, of which the deep fibres connect the tips of adjacent spines, and the superficial pass over several. Above it is continued to the external occipital protuberance as the ligamentum nuehce (Fig. 227), from which a thin median septum passes forward to be at- tached to the occipital crest and the cervical spines. In the lower animals the nape liga- f.^^ ihe7ight"s\"de:'7Meni"eT ment is strong and elastic, and supports the head ; in man it is of mixed white and yellow fibrous tissue in structure, and forms a median intermuscular septum of no great importance. Tlie intertransverse ligaments are unimportant and indistinct bands between the transverse processes. They are rounded and small in the thoracic region ; they correspond to the ventral part of the superior costo-transverse ligaments in the lumbar region, and are wanting or I'eplaced by the intertransversales muscles in the cervical region. Movements.—The spinal column must combine strength with mobility, for, as the axis of the skeleton, it has to bear great weight and resist shocks. For this reason, and to avoid injury to the contained spinal cord, it is necessary that the movement between any two vertebrae should be slight, while that of the column, as a whole, is very considerable. Motion occurs in all directions around the pulpy portion of the discs as a centre, and is limited in part by the ligaments, in part by the articular processes, which thus steady the column. Motion is most free where the bodies are smallest or the intervertebral discs thickest. The former