THE THIRD OR OCULO-MOTOR NER VE. 573 others, passes between the inferior and external recti to enter the posterior border of the inferior obliqne. This branch gives a short, tliick oifset to the ciliary 2-anirlion, thus furnishing its motor root, and also contributes some twigs to the inferior rectus. The third nerve supplies all the orbital muscles, except the superior oblique (supplied by the fourth nerve) and external rectus (sixth nerve). It also, through the ciliary ganglion, supplies the ciliary muscle and sphincter iridis. It is further to be noted that the nucleus of this nerve, through communication with the roots of the facial, supplies the orbicularis palpebrarum, occipito-frontalis, and cor- rugator supercilii ; and that the libres of the third nerve to the internal rectus are derived from the sixth nucleus of the opposite side. It may be well to note here that all the orbital muscles are supplied by their nerves on their surfaces next the eyeball, except the inferior oblique which is pierced by its nerve on its OPTIC NERVE AND OPHTHALMIC ARTERY FOURTH NERVE FRONTAL NERVE LACHRYMAL NERVE Sa ^UPPEH DIVISION OF THIRD NERVE NASAL NERVE LOWER DIVISION OF THIRD NERVE SIXTH NERVE TEMPOROMAtAH NERVE OPHTHALMIC VEIN Fig. 63C.—Back of the orbit, showing passage of nerves through sphenoidal fissure. (Modified from Testut.; posterior border, and the superior oblique which is supplied by the fourth nerve on its orbital surface. Observe here, also, the relations of the orbital nerves in the cavernous sinus and sphenoidal fissure (Fig. 636). The third and fourth nerves and ophthalmic division of the fifth lie embedded in the outer wall of the cavernous sintis, while the sixth nerve and internal carotid artery pass through the sinus, tlie nerve lying beneath the artery, and botli being separated from the blood of the sinus by an endothelial lining supported by delicate fibrous tissue. In the sphenoidal fissure the fourth, frontal, and lachrymal nerves are arranged along its upper boundary in the order mentioned from within outward; the supe- rior and inferior divisions of the oculo-motor, the nasal, and sixtli nerves pass between the two heads of the external rectus, the nasal lying between tlie first two and the sixth most inferiorly. The ophthalmic vein leaves the orbit through this fissure internally to the sixth nerve.