360 THE FASCIAE. curves over the vessels, and is called the deep crural arch. The inner portion of this arch is the part of the fascia which is attached to the os pubis and ilio- pectineal line. Between the femoral vein and Gimbernat's ligament is a little gap, the femoral ring, through which hernia is most liable to occur in females, this being the weakest spot in the inguinal region of the members of this sex. It is the abdominal opening of the femoral or crural canal, and is occupied by a lymph-node and some fat. About half-an-inch above the middle of the inguinal (Poupart's) ligament is an oval opening in the transversalis fascia, called the inter- nal abdominal ring. It is the beginning of the inguinal canal, the other end of which is in the tendon of the external oblique muscle, just above the crest of the pubic bone. Through this canal passes the spermatic cord in the male and the round ligament of the uterus in the female. In each case the transversalis fascia is extended upon the structure contained in the canal, forming a covering which from its funnel-shape is called the infimdibuliform fascia. The Iliac Fascia. The iliac fascia lies upon the iliacus and psoas muscles, which, as has been said, are intimately connected. The portion which covers the psoas is attached to the vertebral column coextensively with the front origin of the muscle, and also to the upper part of the sacrum. From this mesial origin it runs outward, its upper part joining the inner (anterior) layer of the liunbar fascia, its lower part blending witli the fascia over the iliacus. Its upper end is attached to the liga- mentum arcuatimi internum. The portion of the fascia which invests the iliacus stretches from the inner margin of the iliac crest to the iliac part of the ilio- pectineal line, and is also attached to* the outer half of the inguinal (Poupart's) ligament. It accompanies the united muscles out of the pelvis into the thigh, and, running behind the femoral artery and vein, furnishes the posterior part of the sheath of these vessels, the front ])art of which is derived from the trans- versalis fascia. It finally becomes continuous with the pubic portion of the fascia of the thigh, at the line of fusion of the two a partition being given off between the psoas and pectineus to the ilio-pectineal eminence and the capsular ligament of the hip. THE PELVIC FASCIA. In direct downward continuation of the transversalis and iliac fascise, which belong to the abdomen proper, is the pelvic fascia, which, as the name implies, lines that portion of the belly-cavity which is known as the true pelvis. Besides the osseous and ligamentous structures presenting surfaces in the pel- vic cavity, there are the internal obturator muscles at the sides, the pyriformis muscles behind, and the levatores ani and coccygei below. The levators arise along a line from the body of the pubic lione to the ischial spine, pass downward toward the median line, and there blend, thus forming the greatest part of the sagging floor of the pelvic cavity. This floor is perforated by the rectum, and in the female by the vagina also, and it separates the pelvic cavity from the sub- jacent perineal or ischio-rectal space. All of these parietal structures are lined by the pelvic fascia, which also gives support to the viscera. Two principal portions of the pelvic fascia are recognized—the obturator fascia and the recto-vesical fascia. The Obturator Fascia. The obturator fascia, so named from its lying u])on the surface of the obtu- rator internus muscle, is attached to the bone around the margin of the muscle, being continuous with the obturator membrane beneath the obturator vessels, and, extending back to the front of the sacrum, covers the pyriformis and the sacral nerves, in this region being much attenuated. This hind portion is sometimes