115 THE SPINE. The surface of young bones is comparatively smooth. The rough lines and ridges on adult bones are due to ossification at the attachment of muscles. Any marked bony prominence may be called a pi-ocem or apopliysiii ("out-growth") ; if blunt, a tuberosity when large, a tubercle when small; if sharp, a spine or spinous process; if long, a line or ridge, when narrow, a crest, when broader; if articular, a condyle (" knuckle "), or a head when supported on a constricted part or nech. A depression or hollow space in or upon a bone or between several bones is sometimes called a/o.s.w (" ditch "). A glenoid (" cavity-like ")/ossa refers to a shallow articular depression,a cotyloid{'^ cup-like")/o.S'sa to a deeper one. Sinus and antrum are terms applied to cavities within certain bones. A fissttre is a narrow slit; a foramen a short opening ; a canal or meatus, a longer, tube-like passage-way. Other terms used rec[uire no explanation. In describing the different aspects of a bone or other anatomical part the body is supposed to be in the erect position. A surface, extremity, or other part dii'ccted towai'd the head is called superior; toward the feet, inferior ; toward the front, ventrcd or anterior; toward the back, dorsal or posterior. That aspect directed toward the median, vertical, antero-posterior plane of the body is called internal or mesial; that away from the same plane, external or lateral. THE SPINE. The spine, or vertebrcd column, is composed of 26 superimposed bones called vertebral ("capable of turning"). The name spine is derived from the series of spines or spinous processes which are the most obvious portions of the column of bones in the undissected body. Of these the upper 24 are true or movcdjle vertebrce, and are divided from above downward into 7 cervical, 12 thoracic, and 5 lumbar. Of the two lower com])osite bones comprising the false rertebrce, the upper one, or sacrum, is formed by the fusion of 5 vertebrae, and the lower one, or coccyx, of 4 ankylosed, vestigial, terminal vertebrae, all separate in early life. A typical vertebra consists of a body or centrum in front, with a neural arch behind, which com])letcs the vertebral foramen, in the series of which the spinal cord and its membranes are lodged and protected. The disc-like body supports and bears the weight of the head and trunk. Its superior and inferior surfaces are flattened or slightly concave, and rough for the coimecting intervertebral discs. The circumference is concave vertically, convex horizontally, but behind it is concave in both directions, where it bounds the foramen and presents large foramina for veins. The neural arch is formed of two symmetrical halves, and consists of two pedicles and two laminae, supporting seven processes—four articular, two trans- verse, and one spinous. The pedicles ("little feet"), or ventral parts of the arch, consist of two nar- row, thick piei's of bone, projecting horizontally back from the upper part of the dorsal and external aspect of the body. Aljove and below the pedicles are the vertebral notches, which, with notches of adjacent vertebrae, form the intervertebral foramina for the passage of the spinal nerves and vessels. The lamina', broad and flat, complete the arch by fusing together in the median line behind. Their upper borders and lower anterior parts are rough for the attachment of the ligamenta sul)flava. The spinous process projects Ijackward in the median line from the junction of the laminae, and serves for the attachment of muscles and ligaments. The frn nxvcrxe processes project outward from the junction of the 2:)edicles and lamina^ on each side. The articular processes present an upper and a lower pair, extending upward and downward from the roots of the transverse processes, for articulation with the pairs above and below. The articular surfaces of the uj^per and lower pairs look in the opposite direction.