22 INTBOD UCTOB Y. on the neck, the front and lower portions being " face " (^faciea), the upper and back cranium," the dividing-line between the two parts starting at the so-called root of the nose in the mid-line, and extending on each side beneath the over- hanging brows and downward and backward to the ear. But head," in com- mon parlance, means at some times all that we have included, as in decapitation ; at others only the cranium, as in the use of the word headache. Face " Avith the people embraces the anatomical face and also the anterior portion of the cranium : a beautiful face would be considered desecrated if its picture showed nothing above the eyeballs. And yet face " is often used in a more restricted sense than the anatomical, as when one speaks of faceache, meaning pain in the cheek region only. The cranium is subdivided (Fig. 1) into an anterior part, the "forehead" (frons); an upper, the " croAvn " (vertex or sinciput); a back, the occiput; and, on each side, the temple (temp^ifi). There are no surface-markings by which these are absolutely delimited. At the lower portion of the temporal region is the flaring part of the ear, known by anatomists to be the least important division of the organ of hearing (auris), but thought by people commonly to be about all of it, and con- sequently named " ear." The forehead terminates below at the " nose " (nasus) in the middle line, and on each side of this, in an arched border, usually covered with short, crisp hairs, and called the "brow" (supercilium). In the face immediately beneath each brow is an " eye" (oculus), that is, an eyeball or globe, shielded above by an "upper lid" (palpehra superior) and below by a " lower lid" (jxil- pcbra inferior), their edges fringed Avith short hairs, the " lashes " (cilia). Be- tween the eyes and in the middle of the face, below their level, is the projecting part of the nose, Avhich is all that is generally recognized as nose. This has on each side below an opening, presenting downward, the " nostril" (naris), guarded on the outer side by a flaiing projection, the "wing of the nose" (ala nasi). What is commonly called the " bridge of the nose," a 2)rominence caused by the nasal bones, has no technical designation. At a short distance beneath the nose is a transverse slit, to which, as well as to the cavity of which it is the opening, is given the name "mouth" (os). Above this aperture is the "upper j