658 THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. single layer of flattened cells, imbricated on each other, so as to fit into the depression on the hair cuticle, their free edge thus being directed downward. All the layers of the root-sheath blend at the bottom of the follicle, and become con- tinuous with the cells of the hair bulb. The inner root-sheath ceases where the sebaceous gland enters the hair follicle. Lastly the stratum corneum dips a little way into the mouth of the follicle. The hair-papilla is a fungiform process, consisting of connective tissue with CORTEX MEDULLA j HAIR CUTICLE EXTERNAL I EPIDERMIC , COAT HENLE'S LAYER | INTERNAL HUXLEY'S LAYER L EPIDERMIC HAIR CUTICLE COAT CAPILLARY LOOP Fig. 705.—Vertical section of the root of a hair. (Testut.) pigment cells and blood-vessels, which projects into a cup-shaped cavity in the bulb. Muscles of the Hairs.—Slender bundles of unstriped muscle, the arrectores pilomm ("erectors of the hairs"), arise from the superficial layers of the corium and run obliquely inward to be attached to the fibrous coat of the hair follicles on the side toward which the hairs lie. They cause the hairs to stand erect. lierves are supplied to the fibrous coat and outer root-sheath, and perhaps to the papilla. They form a delicate plexus round the root-sheath. The Sebaceous Glands (Fig. 704). The sebaceous (" fat") glands usually open into the hair follicles, and are found wherever hairs are. But in addition they occur on the labia minora, pre- puce, glans penis and glans clitoridis, the red edge of the lips, and, in a modified form, as Meibomian glands, in the eyelids. They are small on the head, large on the nose and most of the face, mons Veneris, labia majora, and scrotum. They are seldom simple, usually compound, saccular glands with short ducts, and lie between the hairs and their arrector muscles, so that the action of the arrectors will expel their fatty secretion. The number of acini in a single gland varies from four or five to twenty.