THE BONES. 174 This is so called from the number of larger and smaller apertures for the sub- divisions of the eighth or auditory nerve on either side of a transverse falciform (•' sickle-shaped ") crest, above which, in front, is the internal oritice of the aque- duct of Fallojiius for the seventh or facial nerve. The aqueduct of Fallopius passes outward to the getm, where it bends backward to pass along above and in- ternal to the tympanum, behind which it bends sharply downward to the stylo- mastoid foramen. Behind the meatus is the small, slit-like opening of the aque- diictus ve-stibidi ("water-pipe of the vestiliule"), occupied in the adult by vessels and a process of dura, and above and in front of the latter is a small opening, the remains of the fiocctdar fossa, very large in young bones. The anterior surface looks forward, outward, and upward into tlie middle cranial fossa. A depression is seen near the apex for the Gasserian ganglion, external and inferior to which is the end of the bony carotid canal. Behind this are two small grooves leading backward and outward to foramina—the larger and internal to the hiatus ("gaping") F(dlopii, which leads to the geniculate ganglion in the aqueduct of Fallopius, and transmits the great superficial petrosal nerve, while the smaller and external is for the small petrosal nerve. Behind these, and between the petro-squamous suture externally and an eminence formed by the superior semicircular canal internally, the bone is thin and forms the roof of the tympanum. The inferior or basilar surface presents posteriorly, between the mastoid and styloid processes, the stylo-mastoid foramen^ the exit of the facial nerve from the aqneduct of Fallopius. The styloid process itself projects downward and for- ward, for possibly 2 inches, from its base, which is imbedded between the vaginal process of the tympanic and the petrosal bone. It attaches two ligaments and three Fig. 195.—The right temporal bone, viewed from below. (Testut.) muscles. Internal to this foramen and process is the small quadrilateral jugular fa.cet, with which the jugular process of the occipital unitfss by cartilage until ossification at the twentieth year. In front of and internal to this facet is the smooth, deep jufjular fossa, which with the jugular notch of the occipital com- pletes the jugular foi'amen. In front of the fossa is the carotid foramen, the lower end of the carotid canal, for the internal carotid artery, which ascends vertically,