191 THE EXTERIOR OF THE SKULL. in outline, with slight projections at the frontal and parietal eminences and at the occipital protuberance. At the meeting of the sagittal and coronal sutures is the bregma, at the site of the anterior fontanelle ; and the lambda is where the sagittal and lambdoid sutures meet, at the site of the posterior fontanelle. The occipital protuberance is known as the inion ("occiput "j. Except in very broad skulls the zygomatic arches are visible from above. The lateral or temporal region (Figs. 219, 220) presents the tcynporal fosm, formed by the temporal, parietal, sphenoid, frontal, and malar bones, and occu- Fio. 219.—Skull, viewed from the left side, showing the principal craniometric points. pied by the temporal muscle. It is limited below by the zygomatic arch exter- nally and the pterygoid ridge of the sphenoid internally. Above it is bounded by the temporal ridge, which, starting at the external angular process of the frontal bone, arches upward and backward, and then downward. Near the coronal suture it usually divides intoa .m|jm'or and an hiferior ridge. The latter limits the origin of the temporal muscle, and is continuous behind with the sujiramastoid crest and the posterior root of the zygoma. Tlic former, less constant and not as marked, attaches the temporal fascia and arches down to the mastoid process near the asterion (" starry") at the site of the posterior lateral fontanelle. The pterion ("wing"), at the site of the anterior lateral fontanelle, is where the parietal, frontal, sphenoid, and temporal bones come together. The temporal fos.sa com- municates with the zygomatic fos.sa through the opening bounded externally l)y the zygomatic arch. The zygomatic fossa is bounded in front by the zygomatic surface of the max- illa, internally by the external pterygoid plate, externally by the zygomatic arch and ramus of the jaw, and superiorly by a small triangular surface on the squamosal and by the great wing of tlie sphenoid internal to the pterygoid ridge. Posteriorly it is limited by a line drawn from the s]>henoidal spine to the zygo- matic tubercle. It is occupied by the jiterygoid and temporal muscles and the coronoid process of the lower jaw. Internally, between its anterior and internal boundaries, is the vertical jAerygo^iaxiUary fissure, between the maxilla and the anterior border of the external pterygoid plate. This connects the zygomatic with the spheno-maxillary fossa. Above and at right angles to the pterygo-maxillary