THE EYE. 691 cartilaginous loop or pulley, attached to the orbital surface of the internal angular ]iroce.ss of the frontal bone. It then bends back at an acute "angle, and passes downward, backward, and outward beneath the superior rectus to its insertion in the sclerotic behind the equator, between the superior and external recti. The inferior oblique arises from the orbital plate of the superior maxilla just outside the lower end of the lachrymal groove, whence it passes backward and outward beneath the inferior rectus (i. e., between it and the orbital floor); then, turning slightly upward, it reaches its insertion into the sclerotic between the optic entrance and the attachment of the external rectus. Action.—These muscles rotate the eye in different directions, but without changing its position in the orbit. Omitting i-efinements for the present, it may be stated that the superior and inferior recti rotate the eyeball on a transverse axis, thus raising and depressing the cornea ; the internal and external recti rotate it on a vertical axis, thus turning the cornea inward and outward, i. e., adducting and abducting it; and the superior and inferior ol)liques rotate it on a sagittal axis, thus turning the cornea round like a wheel on its axis. Besides its main action, the superior rectus adducts and slightly I'otates the cornea inward, and to correct this tendency is the special function of the inferior oblique. Again, the inferior rectus in addition to its main action, tends to adduct the cornea and rotate it outward ; but the sui)erior oblique opposes both these tendencies. What has been described as their main actions are the sole actions of the t^vo lateral recti. The levator pctlpchrce superioris ('Mifter of the upper lid") may appropriately be described in this connection. It arises from the small wing of the sphenoid above the origin of the su])erior rectus, and passing forward close to the roof of the orbit, is inserted by a broad aponeurosis into the tarsus of the upjjer lid. It also sends a more superficial fibrf)us expansion forward among the fasciculi of the orbicularis palpebrarum, and this gains an attachment to the skin of the eyelid. Its action is to elevate the lid. Nerve-mpply.—The superior oblique is supplied by the fourth cranial nerve, the external rectus by the sixth, and all the rest by the third in two divisions. The superior division is given to the levator palpebrte and su])erior rectus; the inferior to the inferior and internal recti and the inferior oblique. THE SUPERFICIAL APPENDAGES OF THE EYE. Under this head come the eyelids, conjunctiva, and lachrymal apparatus. The Eyelids. The eyelids (palpebrce) are two loose, tegumentary folds, which when brought together, cover the front of the eyeball. The upper is larger and more movable than the lower, and takes by far the greater part in opening and closing the eye. About half an inch above its free margin a transverse wrinkle, the superior ptcdpebral fold, divides it into an upper or orbital portion and a lower or palpebral portion. Over the former part the skin is extremely loose, and lends itself readily to subcutaneous hcmcu-rhage and conditions of oedema. Over the lower part it is closely adlierent to the subjacent tissue. There is an inferior 2^(^^pebral fold in the skin of the lower lid, but it is not as well marked, unless the eye is widely open. The space between the free margins of the lids, the p)rdpjebrcd aperture, varies a good deal in different individuals, and even in the same individual according as the pupil is directed upward, downward, or straight for- ward. In the first position the space is greatest, in the second, least. The angles formed by the lids at their inner and outer ends are called the canthi, of which the outer is sharp, the inner rounded. The free margins of the lids are flat, and present an anterior rounded angle and a sharp posterior one in contact Avith the eyeball. Along the anterior angle project two or three rows of short, strong