THE BONES. By GEORGE WOOLSEY. THE adult human skeleton consists of a number ^ of bones, with a small amount of cartilage in some parts, where they are joined or articulated with one another. The bones, as they are generally studied after maceration and drying, are composed of mineral or earthy salts, principally phosphate and carbonate of lime.^ The soft organic parts, of which a prepared bone is deprived, consist partly of the fibrous and vascular periosteum , which covers the surface and is continuous with the connecting liga- ments, and the medulla or marrow, which fills the internal cavities. The main/^(He//o/i.s of bones are to afford a solid frame- work, to support softer parts, to protect delicate organs, and to serve for the attachment and leverage of muscles which produce the different movements. To serve these different pui'poses bones must differ in their outward form, according to which wc distinguish—(1) Lone/ bones, con- sisting of a shaft or diaphysis and two expanded extremi- ties or epiphyses, as in tlie limbs. They afford support and leverage for motion, and are usually somewhat curved in one or two directions, thus securing greater strength and elasticity ; (2) Fhd bones, as in the pelvis, scapula, and the roof of the skull, affording protection and support to the contained parts, and also muscular attachment; (3) Hhort bones, as in the wrist and ankle, where strength com- bined with free motion is required; (4) Irregidar or mixed bones, like the vertebrte and manv of the bones of the skull. Internal Arrangement.—On longitudinal section of a long bone (Fig. 132) notice that there is an outer layer of hard, compact snhstatice, varying in thickness and enclosing a central or medullary cavity, in the shaft of the bone, and porous, spongy ov cancellous bony tissue at the extremities. In the recent state the medullaiy cavity is filled with yel- low or fcdty mdrrcnc, and the cavities of the cancellous tissue with red, marroic. Short, fiat, and irregular bones have an outer layer of compact substance, enclosing can- cellous tissue containing- red marrow. The cancellous tissue at the ends of long bones and in other bones bearing pressure is so arranged that its bony lamelhe are principally directed in the lines of pressure or of muscular tension. The porosity or hollowness of bones serves to combine requisite size and strengtli with lightness. Development of Bones.—In the early embryo the bones are preformed either ' Exclusive of the ossicles of the ears, tlie teeth, and the Wormian bones, there are 200 bones, of which 64 are in the upper extremity, 6'2 in the lower, and 74 in tlie trunk, distributed as follows: the Vertebral column '2(), the skull 22, the ribs and sternum 25, and tlie hyoid bone 1. Respectively 51 per cent. an<l 11 per cent, of the solids of fresh bone. 8 113 Fig. 132.—The longitudi- nal section of a long bone.