497 NODES OF THE ABD03IEN. The Vena-caval Nodes, few and small, are placed close to the upper end of the inferior vena cava. Vessels from the upper and hind part of the liver perforate the diaphragm, and discharge into them. THE NODES OF THE ABDOMEN and their Tributary Vessels. Like the thoracic, the abdominal nodes (Fig. 525) are all deep, and, with a single exception, their immediate source of lymph is other than superficial. Tliey are arranged in the following groups : the mesenteric, the mesocolic, the cceliac, the hepatic, the gastric, the splenic, the median lumbar, the lateral lum- bar, the external iliac, the internal iliac, the sacral, and the rectal. The Mesenteric Nodes (Fig. 52G), lodged between the layers of the mesentery, take the lymph from the small intestines through the lacteal vessels. They discharge by a large trunk into the receptaculum chyli. The Coeliac Nodes, grouped in the region of the coeliac axis, re- ceive lymph from the liver and the gall-bladder, the stomach, the Fig. 526.—Mesenteric nodes. (Xestut.) pancreas, the spleen, and the great omentum, and empty it into the efferent trunk of the mesenteric. In the course of the vessels which carry lymph from the liver, stomach, and spleen to this group are small nodes, called respectively hepatic nodes, gastric nodes, and splenic nodes. The Mesocolic Nodes lie between the layers of the mesocolon. Their afferents come from the csecum, the ascending and transverse colon, and the upper portion of the descending colon ; and their eflterents run to the mesenteric efferent trunk. Tlie Median Lumbar Nodes are situated close to the abdominal aorta. Their supply of lymph comes from the body of the uterus, the ovaries and the Fallo- pian tubes, the testicles, the kidneys, the ureters, the diaphragm, the suprarenal bodies, the external iliac, internal iliac, sacral and latei'al lumbar nodes ; and the trunk by which they discharge into the receptaculum is joined by the efferents of the lower part of the descending and the whole of the sigmoid colon. The Lateral Lumbar Nodes lie in the spaces between the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrte. Their afferents come from the lower part of the spinal canal, and the dorsal and lateral portions of the abdominal walls ; and their efferents run to the median lumbar nodes and the receptaculum. The External Iliac Nodes, situated along the line of the external iliac vessels, take lymph from tlie ventral and lateral ])arts of the walls of the abdomen, and from the superficial and deep inguinal nodes. They have a communication with the internal iliac nodes, and discharge into the median lumbar. The Internal Iliac Nodes, lying around the internal iliac vessels, have tribu- taries from the deep parts of the penis, the proximal portion of the urethra, the bladder, the prostate, the neck of the uterus, the upper two-thirds of the vagina, the deep layers of the perineum, the pelvic muscles, the adductor region of the thigh, and the gluteal nodes. They send their lymph to the median lumbar nodes, and have connection with the external iliac. The Sacral Nodes, situated in the curve of the sacrum, have afferents from the dorsal and lateral pelvic parietes and from the rectal nodes, which take their lymph from the rectum. 32