THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 696 MOUTH SALIVARY GLANDS PHARYNX plished in several directions : (1) by enlargement longitudinally, so that the length of the canal becomes in some animals many times greater than that of a straight line between its two extremities, thus furnishing an immensely more extensive surface, without corresponding increase in the size of the individual; (2) by dila- tation at various places, and hy the formation of transverse folds projecting into the bore, by which is gained not only augmentation of area, but also, what is of great advantage, temporary detention of the contents so that they may be modified in ways which would be impossible during their rapid passage ; (3) by the addi- tion of certain structures and materials to the walls of the tube, which thus can effect the comminution of introduced material, furnish solvent fluids of different kinds, and influ- ence the acceleration or retardation of the current of the matters contained in the canal; (4) by the development of acces- sory organs, which, though originating as mere buds from the sides of the tube, grow and develop until they attain considerable —perhaps immense—size, and supply secre- tions of essential imjjortance; and (5) by the formation of a reservoir, in which waste matters can be stored until it is convenient to void them. The Human Alimentary System (Fig. 744).—These features are all illustrated in the human alimentary system. The tube measures thirty feet from the aperture of introduction, the mouth, to the opening of expulsion, the vent or anus ; but the dis- tance between these points in a direct line is not more than the same number of inches. Connected with tlie initial segment of the canal is an apparcdus, which minces and crushes hard masses of aliment, thus pro- digiously increasing the surface of the matters to be acted upon by the solvent fluids, and, consequently, expediting the liquefactive process. The lining membrane of the entire tube is of the mucous variety ; but it does much more, in the greater part of its course, than furnish a protective smear, for it is so modified by the formation in its very substance of a numberless nmltitude of peculiar glands, that it aff'ords various juices, by whose agency important changes in the preparation of food for absorption are brought about. From one end of the canal to the other its walls contain muscle, which by its contraction carries the contents onward with sufficient speed. A short distance from its beginning the tube expands into a large cavity, the stomach, which delays the swallowed food, as a pond in the course of a river causes a dim- inution in the rapidity of the current. Throughout the most of the remainder of the canal we find little shelves, extending into the lumen from the sides, and causing at once increase of surface and retardation of the stream. There are also glands —the salivary, the pancreas, the liver—which, although entirely outside of the limits of the alimentary tube in their developed condition, originate from it, dis- charge their peculiar products into it, and are thus accessory in their action to the glands which make a part of the walls of the canal itself. Finally, the last great segment is so constructed that it acts as a receptacle in which unappropri- ated parts of the food and certain effete substances from the system can be retained until the arrival of suitable times for their evacuation. SMALL INTESTINE ANUS Fig. 744.—Diagram of the alimentary tube and its appendages. (Testut.)