THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 488 or notch, called the hUum, at which its arteries enter, and its veins and efferent vessels emerge. The capsule of the node is mainly composed of white fibrous tissue, but has a slight admixture of smooth muscidar tissue. From its inner surface trabeculce ("little beams") project toward the centre of the node, these being broad and shelf-like at the periphery, which is called the cortex (" bark "), but narrow and like slender i-afters in the central portion, the medulla (" pith"). In no part are the spaces which these enclose completely circumscribed, and thus, as in ai'eolar tissue, there is free intercommunication be- tween them. The irregular spaces are occupied by a rather solid mass of 'pufj^, which, however, does not quite fill them, as it never touches the capsule and trabeculse, but leaves a narrow interval between itself and them. This open interval, which appears in a section of the node like a channel, is the lymph sums, and is crossed by a network of delicate adenoid reticular tissue, which is continuous on the one hand Avith the trabeculse or capsule, and on the other with a still finer plexus of the same character, which per- vades the pulp and forms the framework upon which the essential constituents of the pulp are supported. The pulp or proper substance of the node is a mass of leucocytes, held together by the fine reticulum just mentioned. The cells at the periphery of the collection are in a condition of multiplication by karyokinesis, and it is believed that the newly formed cells are continually liberated into the lymjih sinus. The lymphadenoid tissue is well supplied with blood- vessels. The lymph simis is a complicated series of freely com- municating passages into which a number of lymph- vessels pour their contents, and from which a smaller number of Ivmph-vessels receive lymph. The inner coat of the entering (afercni) and emerging (efferent) vessels is continuous with the epithelial lining of the lymph sinus and the epithelial covering of the trabeculfe which traverse it. Thus there is no breach in the continuity of the surface over which the lymph flows, whether it is in the vessels or in the channels of the nodes. The nodes, with the exception of the superficial inguinal, are situated beneath the deep fascia, though not always under its immediate covering. All told there may be nearly 700 nodes, of which the greatest part are in the chest- and bellv-cavities. The face and neck have a considerable number, the limbs a few, and" the brain-case none. In size they vary from that of a large bean to such diminutiveness that they escape gross observation, unless they have become enlarged by disease. In the groin they can easily be felt, but not in the axilla. Those of very small size are called nodules. As age creeps on, the lymjihatic tissues undergo senile atrophy. The thymus gland, whose nature is essentially lymphatic, diminishes and generally entirely disappears before adult life. The ordinary lymph-nodes gradually shrink in old age, though they do not altogether vanish, and all of the other lymphatic struct- ures pursue a similar degenerative course. The effect of lymphadenoid tissue upon the lymph which passes through it is very marked. For example, the lymph which enters a node has fewer corpuscles and less albuminoid material than'that which flows out of it. We thus see that the influence of the node is toward the enrichment of the lymph. Extraneous matters absorbed by the lymph-vessels from the juice-channels are caught in the reticular tissue, which crosses the sinus, and are detained temporarily or even permanently. When these particles are bacteria they are liable to set up patho- FiG. 517.—A lymph-node with its afferent and efferent vessels. (Testut.)