211 THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE THORAX. This lio;ament does not limit motion between the bones. The dura is adherent to its ventral surface, and the dorsal surface lies in the floor of the suboccipital triangle. A band of fibres at the lateral margins of the ligament arches over the back of the vertebral groove on each side to the superior articular process, com- pleting a foramen for the vertebral artery and the suboccipital nerve. The lateral occipifo-at.lantal Ugauicnts are strong fibrous bands between the transverse processes of the atlas and the jugular processes of the occipital on each side, which strengthen the capsular ligaments externally, and lie behind the rectus capitis lateralis muscles. 3Iove7ne7its of flexion and extension are freely allowed. Extension is checked by the anterior occipito-atlautal, flexion by the occipito-axial and hind part of the capsular ligaments. Some lateral gliding is also allowed, by which the outer edge of the condyle on the one side is depressed, and on the other is elevated in relation to its socket. Or the movement may he ohliqueli/ Inderal, one condyle advancing slightly at the same time that it is depressed toward the median line, while the opposite condyle takes the reverse position. This is the position of greatest stability, and is assumed in the most easy and natural attitudes. Lateral movements are restrained by the check ligaments and the lateral parts of the cap- sules. No true rotation is allowed. The symmetrical and bilateral arrangement of these joints, combined with the median odontoid pivot, provides the strength and security which are necessary to life, and which are greater than are obtained in a ball-and-socket joint, with equal freedom of motion. A passageway for the cord is also provided, subject to less motion than in case the joint were of the ball-and-socket variety. The ligaments passing over and l)etween the odontoid process and the occiput by being lax in the erect position allow of flexion, which tightens them. The head balances upon tlie fore part of the condyles when the orbits look a little upward. By this arrangement, characteristic of the human figure, the head is held erect without undue muscular effort or a strong ligamentum nuchaj. If the muscles relax, the head will nod either forward or backward according as the centre of gravity is in front or behind the balance line. 3. The Articulations of the Thorax. (Figs. 230, 231.) A. The Costo-vertelDral Articulations, or those between the ribs and the ver- tebrje, are subdivided into costo-ceiitral and costo-fransverse articulations. (a) In the costo-central articulation the head of the rib is united to the body of a single vertebra in the case of the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ribs, elsewhere to the bodies of two vertebr&e and the intervening intervertebral disc. When the rib-head articulates with a single vertebra, there is a single synovial sac, otherwise two separate sacs, surrounded by a capsular ligament, which is composed of short fibres and is reinforced in front by the anterior costo-central or stellate ligament. This consists of pearly-white fil)res, radiating from the front of the head of the rib upward to the body of. the vertebra above, forward to the intervertebral disc, and downward to the body of its proper ver- tebra. In the case of the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ribs the stellate arrangement of fibres is not quite as distinct. The interarticular ligament is a thin, transverse band of short, strong fibres between the intervertebral discs and the ridge separating the two facets on the head of the rib, excepting the first, tenth, eleventh, and twefth, where it is wanting. It separates the two synovial sacs, and is loose enough to allow of moderate rotation. (6) The costo-transverse articulation is between the tubercle of each rib of the upper ten pairs and the front of the tip of the transverse pi'ocess of the vertebra bearing the same number as the ril). Each jtnnt has a thin, loose capsular lig- ament, enclosing a synovial sac, and strengthened on three sides by the costo- transverse ligaments. The middle costo-transrerse or interosseous ligament consists of short horizontal fibres between tiie back of the neck of the rib and the fi'ont