THE BONES. 158 arise from the narrow anterior or flexor surface, and flex the ankle on continuing their primary action. The external surface turns dorsally in the lower fourth to become continuous with the posterior surface of the malleolus. The antero-inter- nal or interosseous border (Fig. 178) is close to the antero-external border above but diverges from it below, where, an inch or more above the malleolus, it ends at the apex of a rough triangular area which attaches the inferior interosseous ligament. This border attaches the interosseous membrane which separates the muscles arising from the anterior surface from the tibialis posterior, which supi- nates the ankle and arises from the fusiform internal or supinator surface. The latter surface occupies the upper two-thirds only of the shaft. It is separated from the posterior surface by the postero-internal bo7-der, which joins the interos- seous border in the lower third, and attaches a fibrous septum separating the muscles which arise from the surfaces on either side. The posterior or extensor surface, becoming more internal below, attaches the soleus above and the flexor longus hallucis below. The latter muscles are separated from the peronei by a septum attached to the prominent postero-externcd border, which passes from the styloid process to the back of the malleolus. The nutrient foramen, directed downwaixl, is seen in the middle third of the posterior surface. The head, the outer surface of the malleolus, and the triangular area above it are subcutaneous ; othemvise the shaft is covered by muscles. Fracture occurs very commonly an inch or two above the malleolus. Ossification.—The lower epiphysis, although it ossifies first, joins the shaft about the twentieth or twenty-first year, while the upper or more vestigial epiphysis remains separate until the twenty-second to the twenty-fourth year. THE BONES OF THE FOOT. The skeleton of the foot is composed of three groups of bones—those of the tarsus ("the flat of the foot"), metatarsus ("beyond the tarsus"), and digits. The bones of the foot, although resembling those of the hand, are modified in the direc- tion of greater firmness, and are in a position of permanent pronation and dorsal flexion. THE TARSAL BONES. The tarsus contains seven bones- and the three cuneiform bones. -the astragalus, calcaneum, cuboid, navicular, GROOVE FO LONG. H The Astragalus. The astragalus ("a die"), or talus (Figs. 179, 181, 183, 184), occupies the upper part of the arch of the foot, where it articu- lates with the tibia above and internally, and with the fibula externally. It receives the weight of the body from the tibia, and transmits it by articulation to the calcaneum below and the navicular in front. Its long axis is directed forward and inward to the convex anterior extremity, or head, which is joined by a slightly constricted neck to the main part, or body, behind. Theuppersurfaceis occupied by the trochlear articular surface for the tibia. This is convex from before backward, and slightly concave transversely. It is broader in front than behind, and continuous with the lateral facets for the malleoli. The facet on the outer surface, for the external malleolus, is triangular and vertically concave ; that on the inner surface, for the internal malleolus, is smaller, nar- row, and pyriform ; and to the rough surface below is attached the deep portion of the deltoid ligament. The under surface presents a deep groove for the interosseous ligament, which passes from within obliquely Fig. 179.—Right astragalus, under surface. (Testut.)