THE BONES. 156 INNER TU- BEROSITY OUTER ruBEROSITV STYLOID PROCESS kneeling. At the outer angle of this triangular surface is a prominence to which the ilio-tibial band of the fascia lata is attached. The larger, internal tuberosity is marked behind by a horizontal groove for the insertion of the semi- membranosus tendon, and the external tuberosity presents postero-externally a rounded articular facet for the head of the fibula. The three-sided shaft of the tibia is very thick above and tapers toward the lower end, where it again expands slightly. The internal surface is convex and subcutaneous, except at the upper end, where, internal to the tubercle, the sar- torius, gracilis, and semi-tendinosus tendons are attached. The external surface is concave in its upper two-thirds, where it gives origin to the tibialis anterior, convex below, where it looks more for- ward and is covered by the extensor tendons. On the posterior surface the popliteus is inserted on a triangular area at the upper end, limited below by the oblique line, which passes from the fibular facet downward and inward to the in- ternal border, and attaches the soleus muscle. Below the oblique line this surface is divided by a longitudinal ridge into an inner portion giving t)rigiu to the flexor longus digitoruni, and an outer for the tibialis posterior. At the upper part of this surface and below the oblique line is found the large foramen for the nutrient artery, directed down- ward. The anterior border, or sliin, commencing above, just below the tubercle, is subcutaneous, sinuous, and sharp in its upper two-thirds, rounded in its lower third, where it passes to the front of the internal malleolus. The external or interosseus border attaches the interosseous membrane and bifurcates near the lower end, thus enclosing a triangular area for the inferior interos- seous ligament. The internal border extends from the back of the intei'nal tuberosity above to the back of the in- ternal malleolus below. The internal lateral ligament is attached to its upper 3 inches, the soleus muscle to its middle third. The lorver extremity is somewhat quad- rilateral, and is expanded transversely. It is prolonged downward, internally, as a flattish, subcutaneous process, the in- ternal malleolus, from the tip and mar- gins of which the internal lateral liga- ment of the ankle arises. The fore part of its external surface is articular, for the inner lateral facet of the astragalus, and is continuous with the inferior quadrilateral articular surface of the extremity, which articulates with the upper surface of the astragalus. This inferior facet is concave from before backward, and is narrower, and descends lower behind than in front. Behind the malleolus is a groove for the tibialis posterior and the flexor longus digitorum, while farther externally the flexor longus pollicis slightly ffi POSTERO-EX- TERNAL BORDER / * INNER MALLEOLUS {(MALLEOLUS _GROOVE FOR PERONEI QROOVE FOR FLEX. I LONG, HALL. QROOVE FOR FLEX. LONG. DIGIT. GROOVE FOR TIBIALIS POST. Fig. 177.—The right tibia and fibula in their nor- mal relations, rear view. (Testut.)