THE URINARY SYSTEM. 780 the medullary portion into the cortical are a number of narrow triangles, their bases resting on the base of the pyramid, and their apices reaching nearly to the subcapsular layer. They are called meduUary rays (pyramids of Ferrein), on account of their radiation from the medulla. The diagram (Fig. 846 ) will show that these various appearances are due prin- cipally to the ai-rangement of the different portions of the tubes. It will be seen that in the medullary rays are all of the spiral tubes, and the uppermost parts of the straight collecting tubes and of the ascending limbs of the looped tubes (distal spiral tubes), these being placed side by side in line with the chief axis of the ray, the longest being in the middle. In the remaining and greater part of the cortex are the capsules and their necks, and the convoluted, irregular, and arched collecting tubes, all so intricately intermingled as to produce the granular look of the part, and to merit the name of labyrinth. The medulla contains the greater part of the length of the looped and of the collecting tubes; and, as these are straight and side by side, the delicate striation of the medulla is explained. The broad alternating dark and light streaks in the pyi'amid are due to a vascular distribution as will presently be seen. The Vessels of the Kidney.—The arteries enter the lobe in the cortical sub- stance at the sides of the pyramid. When they reach the level of the base of the pyramid, they turn inward and run across between the medullary and cortical portions, constituting the arterial arches, and giving branches upward into the cortex, and, according to most authorities, branches downward into the medulla. The branches to the cortex, called mterlohular, enter the cortex half way between the medullary rays, and give off short side-twigs, the afferent vessels ("the vessels carrying to "), each of which terminates in a globular bunch of capillaries, the glomerulus, or Malpighian tuft. This tuft is commonly described as being inside of the capsule, which is the beginning of a uriniferous tube, and, in one sense, this is correct. But, from the physiological ])oint of view, the tuft is outside of the capsule ; for it is related to it only as if it had pushed in and stretched the capsular wall at a point opposite the neck, carrying everything before it until the cavity was nearly obliterated. The cells now lining the capsule are compar- able with the parietal layer of a serous membrane, and those covering the glom- erulus with its visceral layer. The capsule and tuft together are called the Mal- pighian body. The blood leaves the tuft through a vessel, called efferent {" carrying