506 THE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. cerebral hemisphere, the two hemispheres making the cerebrum; the region of the third ventricle is known as the thalamencephalon, on account of its walls consist- ing to a very large extent of two great bodies called thalami; the aqueduct is enclosed in a nervous mass, which is often known by its original name, mesen- cephalon, sometimes as the isthmus, from its forming a connecting bond between the parts before and those behind it, and, perhaps most frequently, as the crtira cerebri (" the legs of the cerebrum"), from the stalk-like appearance of its ventral portion; and the fourth ventricle is surrounded by nervous masses so dilferentiated from each other that they are not designated by a single collective term, but are referred to as separate organs. Of these the principal are the cerebellum ("the little cerebrum" or "little brain"), the pons ("the bridge" or "the bridge of Varolius"), and the medulla oblonf/ata {" the oblong marrow"), also called by either of its names singly—preferably by the latter, as this gives no suggestion of the medulla spinalis (" the spinal marrow "), a name formerly much used instead of spinal cord, which is the final segment of the cerebro-spinal axis, and sur- rounds the central canal of the spinal cord. The relative proportion and disposition of the gray and white nervous matter are very different in the various parts. For example, in the cord the gray occupies a central posi- tion, while in the cerebrum the greater part of this kind of material is at the surface. In the encephalon we find also many collections of gray ner- vous tissue, which seem to casual observation isolated, and independent of the gray at the surface and of the rather regular, continuous, and orderly ari'anged gray sub- stance of the cord. The white nervous tissue is somewhat more easily understood, as we can trace a continuity in its mass for very considerable distances, indeed, practically from one extremity of the axis to the other. Beginning our inspection in the cord, we follow the fibres successively into and through the regions of the fourth ventricle, of the aqueduct, of the third ventricle, and last into the region of the lateral ventricles, where we find them ending in the gray matter of the very surface of the cerebrum. REGION OF THE CENTRAL CANAL OF THE SPINAL CORD Fig. 548.—Diagram to show the relations of the cavity to the principal divisions of the axis. A Diagrammatic Description of the Brain. The relations of the primary segments of the encephalon in their fully devel- oped state are so complex that a diagrammatic presentation of the subject is a helpful introduction to its fuller study. The First Vesicle.—As would be expected from the great size and wide expan- sion of its cavity, the first vesicle attains a volume far in excess of that reached by any other ; indeed, so large does it become that its bulk surpasses that of all the others together, and it overlaps them to such an extent as to conceal them com-