173 THE TEMPORAL BONE. for attachment of the external lateral ligament of the lower jaw. The posterior root divides into two branches, of which tlie upper is the supramastoid crest, and the lower descends in front of the external auditory meatus to the tympanic bone at the Glaserian fissure as the postglenoid process, very prominent in young bones. In front of the articular eminence is a small, smooth triangular surface belonging to the zygomatic fossa, and separated from the tempoi'al surface by a slight ridge. The external pterygoid muscle glides over it. The internal surface is marked by impressions for the cerebral convolutions and by grooves for the middle meningeal arteries. Where it joins the petrous portion there is seen in young, and often in old, bones the remains of the petro- squamous suture passing from the angle between these two portions in front to the parietal notch between the squamous and mastoid portions behind. The arched border between these two angles or notches describes about two-thirds of a circle, and is thin, bevelled, and fluted on its inner surface above, overlapping the parietal, and in front is serrated and bevelled on its inner surface above and on its outer surface below, articulating with the great Aving of the sphenoid. The Petro-mastoid Portion.—This segment of the temporal is an irregular, four-sided pyramid of very dense bone, whose rough truncated apex is directed forward and inward to the foramen lacerum medium, and whose base, directed outward and backward, is formed by the less dense mastoid portion. It is usu- ally described as three-sided, the fourth or outer surface being mostly covered by the tympanic bone. The mastoid portion of the petrosal presents a triangular rough external sur-. face, prolonged downward and forward into the nipple-shaped mastoid, process, which aflFords attachment to the sterno-mastoid, splenius capitis, trachelo-mastoid, and occipitalis. Internal to the mastoid process is the deep digastric groove for the digastric muscle, internal to which is the shallow groove for the occipital artery. Its internal or cerebral surface forms a small part of the posterior cranial fossa, and is separated from the petrosal pyramid by the deep groove for the sigmoid portion of the lateral sinus. The mastoid, foramen, transmitting a vein, opens internally on or near the rear wall of this groove, and externally near the posterior border of the mastoid portion. The upper border of this portion articulates with the parietal, the posterior border with the occipital. The suture- line between the squamous and mastoid portions lies a little below the su]iramastoid crest, and runs from the parietal notch to the middle of the external meatus. The mastoid process about puberty enlarges and becomes filled with a num- iDer of air-cells {mastoid, cells), connected with a larger cavity, the mastoid antrum. cave"), which is present and comparatively large at birth, and communicates with the upper part of the middle ear or tympanum. The antrum is bounded ex- ternally by that part of the squamous portion below the supramastoid crest, which is exceed- ingly thin in children, while superiorly the back of the roof of the tympanum {tegmen tymjjani, " cover of the drum") separates it from the middle cranial fossa. The Petrous Portion.—Of the two intracranial surfaces of this portion, the posterior surface looks backward, inward, and slightly upward into the posterior fossa of the base of the skull. From near its centre the internal auditory mecdns, which transmits the facial and auditory nei'ves, passes outward for about two- fifths of an inch to a plate of bone, the lamina cribrosa ("sieve-like layer"). Fig. 194.—Section through the nias- toicl cells, showing their communication with the middle ear. (W. W. Keen.)