THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTmL 374 tendon its fibres are intermingled. It extends upward onto the great vessels for two inches or more, blending with their sheaths ; and in this region it is also con- tinnous with a downward prolongation of the cervical fascia. In front it is con- nected with the breast-bone by two fibrons bands, the superior and inferior sterno- pericardial ligaments; and the parietal pleurae are adherent to its lateral surfaces. The set'ous membrane furnishes a lining to the fibrous bag, and is thence reflected onto the contained organs, giving them a closely attached covering. The lining of the fibrous pouch is the parietal portion of the serous membrane, and VENTRICLE PERICARDIUM DIAPHRAGM TO DIAPHRAGM Fig. 432.—The heart in situ. The pericardium has been cut open in front, and reflected. (Testut.) the clothing of the heart and vessels is the visceral portion, the latter sometimes being called the epicardium (" upon the heart"). Thus, the heart, which changes its position seventy times a minute all through life, is enabled to move with the least possible friction. The pericardium does not completely encase all of the vessels attached to the heart. The aorta and pulmonary artery are enclosed in one sheath, tlie others are only partially covered. Many pouches of pericardium are found between the vessels at the lines of reflection of the membrane. The arteries which supply the pericardium are the internal mammary, phrenic, pericardiac, oesophageal, and bronchial. Its nerve-supply comes from the pneu- mogastric, phrenic, and sympathetic. THE PHYSIOLOGICAL ANATOMY OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. Before one studies the systematic anatomy of the blood-vessels, it is important that he should know their physiological anatomy. The few succeeding pages, therefoi'e, will be devoted to a presentation of the principal features of the struct- ure of the different kinds of vessels, with especial reference to the relations between their histological composition and their functions.