THE LIVER. 745 Fig. S04.—niajjram to show the relations of the sus- pensory and round ligaments to the liver and the abdom- inal Willi. (F. H. U.) umbilical vein. Thus is formed the suspensory ligament, a sickle-shaped struc- ture, witli the round ligament in that part of its cutting edge which projects beyond the anterior border of the liver (Fig. 804). The posterior layer of the gastro- liepatic omentum spreads out upon the hind surface of the liver, but does not nearly cover it, the back of the right lobe being entirely bare. This layer is reflected onto the rear wall of the abdomen, along an irreg- ular line, extending from just above the lower end of the right lobe be- hind, along the postero-inferior bor- der to the vena cava, in front of this vessel, up by its left side, and then on the upper surface of the left lobe slightly in front of its posterior mar- gin, thus constituting the lower por- tion of the coronary ligament. The upper portion of this large ligament is made by the corresponding reflection of the serous membrane from the upper surface. Supports of the Liver. The liver is held in place by various agencies. Probably the most important of these is its intimate connection with the vena cava inferior. This great vessel, ]>assing upward to the heart, is closely adherent to the back wall of the abdomen, is deeply lodged for some inches of its upper portion in the substance of the liver, and receives from this viscu.s the few great and many small hepatic veins, some of which come to it from a distance of nearly two inches. The support afforded by the underlying hollow viscera—the stomach and bowels—is not to be ignored. Usually these are occupied to a considerable extent by gas, and thus act as a sort of air-cushion upon which their bulky associate can repose. The fibrous cord, which I'esults from the atrophy of the umbilical vein of intrauterine life, and is known as the round ligament of the liver, does its share in holding up the organ. Its upper part is firmly fastened in the umbilical fissure, from the front end of which it passes down, close to the anterior abdominal wall, enclosed in the free edge of the falciform ligament, and terminates in the navel, with the cicatricial tissue of which its end is fused. Finally, there are fi)ur ligaments formed by folds of peritoneum. Of these the superior has already been described in connec- tion with the serous tunic. It is called suspensory, because the liver seems to hang from it; broad, in comparison with its fellows ; and falciform, from its resemblance to the blade of a sickle. The coronary ligament is so named because it encloses or crowns an area, which results from the backward reflection of the serous covering of the upper and under surfaces to the hind walls of the abdo- men. This ligament is short, and its two layers come together at the right and also at the left. Just beyond each of the points of junction of these layers and continuous with them there is a small, triangular, double fold of peritoneum, which lies between the liver and the diaphragm, and can be best seen by drawing the adjacent side of the muscle away from the viscus. These are the lateral liga- ments, the right and the left. Vessels of the Liver. The vessels of the liver are the portal vein, the hepatic artery, the hepatic veins, and the lymphatics. The first two of these pass from between the layers