70 ELEMENTARY TISSUES. Synovial membranes are divided into the following groups: 1. Articular. 2. Vaginal. 3. Bursal. 1. Articular Synovial Membranes. These occur in those articulations of the bony skeleton wherein two surfaces move upon each other. The bones concerned in such a joint are covered on the surfaces, which enter into the composition of the articulation, with a crust of cartilage, whose free surface is very smooth and hard. The bones are held together by strong bands of white fibrous tissue—the ligaments—which encapsu- late the ex])anded ends of the bones, forming hollow cylinders, which bound the joint. The inner surface of a capsular ligament is covered with a synovial membrane, which is reflected from it a little way upon the margin of each of the cartilages. Thus, the synovial membrane is a short tube with its edges turned inward. The arrangement of the parts will be seen in Fig. 73. If, as sometimes occurs, a ligament or a tendon passes across or through the joint-cav- ity, the synovial membrane ensheaths it. Oc- casionally the membrane exhibits folds, which cross the cavity or hang into it like fringes, and perhaps contain some adipose tissue. In all cases the synovia secreted by the membrane lubricates the cartilages and other structures, Fig. 73.—Diagram of articular synovial membrane. The cartilages are represented as drawn apart for the sake of clearness. The synovial membrane is shown by a broken line. (F. H. G.) which present a free surface in the joint, 2. Vaginal Synovial Membranes. These are so named from vagina, a sheath," and are also known as synovial sheaths. They are found in situations where the tendons of muscles run over bones, to which they are bound down by strong, fibrous bands. The bone in these cases is grooved, and the fibrous tissue bridges over the gutter, thus making a FIBROUS ROOF OF THE CHANNEL CAVITY OF SYNOVIAL SHEATH J TENDON CAVITY OF SYNOVIAL SHEATH ^ BONY BED OF THE CHANNEL Fig. 74.—I)iaf;ram of a vaginal synovial membrane in cross-section. The membrane is shown by the broken lines. A space is left be- tween the tendon and channel-wall for the sake of clearness. (F. H. G.) Fig. 75.—Diagram of a vaginal synovial membrane in longitudinal section. Compare with Fig. 74. (F. H. G.) very strong, fibro-osseous canal, through which a tendon passes to its destination. The synovial membrane is arranged in the form of a tubular sheath, one portion lining the canal, the other investing the enclosed tendon, as will be seen in Fiffs. 74 and 75.