20 INTB OD VCTOR Y. to a corridor at one side, and a roofed piazza on two sides. He notes the electric wires, the gas- and steam- and water- and waste-pipes within the walls of the room, the chimney which projects into it, and the relations which these sustain to the room itself and to each other. He proceeds thus until every region of the house is investigated and mapped out, and when he has done all this one can get from his records a complete idea of the relations of every piece of the structure to every other. Finally comes the histologist, who, disregarding systems'of organs and heed- less of the relations between various parts, looks only at the structural materials entering into the composition of the house ; in other words, its tissues. He finds that the house is made up of stones, bricks, boards, beams, nails, slates, and many other things, which present to the eye definite forms by which they are recognizable. It may be that some one kind of these structural elements varies in shape and in other respects in different parts, as, for instance, the bricks, which are of one form, size, and smoothness in the outside wall, different in all of these respects in the inner wall, and unlike either of the other kinds in the fire-places; but they are all readily seen to belong in the same category. Each of these three methods of considering the house has its uses; each alone is seen to be inadequate to convey a comprehensive idea of the building. An architect employs all of them : he is, as regards houses, a systematic anatomist, a relational anatomist, and a histologist; he knows what the organs of a building are, how they stand in space with reference to each other, and of what textures they are constructed. For exactly the same reason every practitioner of medicine must be a human anatomist in all three of these ways. He finds one disease affecting a given system—as, for example, the alimentary—and therefore has to know the organs of this system as a continuous series ; he meets with another disease involving, not a set of physiologically associated organs, but a number of parts which are related to each other in a geographical way, occupying a limited region, and consequently he needs to be acquainted with the organs or parts of organs belonging to half a dozen different systems. In either case he may be unable to appreciate the condition of affairs if he is ignorant of the tissues entering into the composition of the structures which are invaded. The body may be considered anatomically from still other points of view. If it is in a state of health, the study of its structure is normal anatomy ; if it is in a condition of disease, ixdhological or morbid anatomy. When the organ- ization is studied with especial reference to function, we pursue the method of physiological anatomy. The consideration of the plan or model upon which organs are formed constitutes morphological anatomy; and as the discussion of such matters is attended necessai'ily with more or less of speculation, the synonyms philomphic and transcendental anatomy are often employed. The object which the investigator has in view determines the division of the subject. Thus, if he studies the body with the purpose of representing it in a pictorial or plastic way, it is artistic anatomy; if his only intent is to acquire knowledge which will be especially serviceable in the practice of the healing art, it is applied or clinical anatomy. Practical anatomy is a name employed to indicate the study of the body by dissection. It will be understood, however, that we confine ourselves to human anatomy solely ; that we regard it only in its normal aspects; that, unless otherwise speci- fied, the adult condition is assumed; and that we consider anatomy chiefly with a view to the interest which it must have for the student who desires to fit him- self for the work of the medical profession. This will involve the study of systematic, relational, and microscopic anatomy, and in the treatment of many topics all three of these methods will go along hand in liand. Frequently the physiological anatomy will be presented at the opening of a section, because it is so much easier to understand a machine if we enter upon its study with a distinct idea of the work which it is capable of performing, than if we have no notion of its function.