THE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. 634 anterior wall. The latter method is pursued here, although one sees specimens which justify the subdivision of this floor-space so that a posterior wall of con- siderable extent may be described. From the aperture of the aqueduct the. floor of the third ventricle slopes quite sharply downwai'd and forward, and is made by (1) the tegmenta of the mesen- cephalon, (2) the posterior perforated space, (3) the (!orpora albicantia, and (4) the tuber cinereum, whose central part is the infundibulum, to which the hypophysis is attached. The tegmenta abut abruptly upon the ventricular cavity. The surface which they present is slightly convex, and is covered with a continuation of the gray matter which surrounds the aqueduct. This sheet of gray is extended forward beyond the limits of the tegmenta, and forms the greatest part of the floor. Furthermore, it rises for a little distance upon the mesial surface of the thalami, and thus covers the lower part of the anterior pillars of the fornix, where they lie against these bodies. The part of the floor in front of the teg- menta presents a free under surftice, which is visible on the base of the brain. This area is rhombic, and margined in its rear portion by the diverging crura cerebri, in its front by the converging optic tracts. The surface area included by these structures is called the interpeduncular space, from its being, in part, between the cerebral crura or peduncles. It is composed almost wholly of gray substance, and is a bond of union between the two thalami. In its hind portion is the posterior perforated space; in its forepart is the ^M^er ciyieremn {" ashen knob"). Between these two the corpora albicantia ("whitish bodies") are inserted. The Posterior Perforated Space, so called from its situation and appearance, is a forward continuation of the gray matter in the wall of the aqueduct, and stretches laterally between the diverging crura. Its numerous apertures give passage to small vessels. The Tuber Cinereum is continuous behind with the posterior perforated space, and in front with the lamina cinerea, which forms a part of the anterior wall of the third ventricle. The central part of the tuber cinereum is prolonged down- ward in the shape of a cone, the infund- ibulum, whose funnel-like cavity is a part of the third ventricle (Fig. 590). To the apex of the infundibulum is attached the hypophysis ('' the growth underneath") also called the pituitary gland, from the erroneous notion, form- erly entertained, that it secreted the mucus (pituita), which is discharged from the nose. This body is lodged in the sella Turcica of the sphenoid bone, in which it is firmly held by the dura, the fibrous membrane lining the brain- case. The hypophysis is composed of two parts, essentially different in origin and histological character. The poste- rior portion is the smaller, and is a process from the ventricular wall, at first being hollow and communicating with the ventricle, but ultimately losing its cavity, and consisting of nervous matter intermingled with much fibrous tissue. The anterior portion is much the larger, and partly embraces the posterior. It is derived from the primitive oral cavity, and its structure bears a resemblance to that of the thyroid body. The hypo- physis has been found greatly enlarged in many cases of giantism, and hence has been supposed to sustain a relation to the stature of the individual. The Corpora Albicantia (Figs. 572, 586, 587), situated about midway of the floor of the third ventricle, are parts of the anterior pillars of the fornix. The CIRCULAR SINUS Fig. 590.—SagiUal section through the hypo physis, mesial surface of right segment. (Testut.)