746 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. of the gastro-hepatic omentum into the liver at the transverse fissure, their branches are embraced by the capsule of Glisson, and they are distributed as has been already stated, the one contributing material upon which the hepatic cells are to act, the other furnishing nourishing blood to the various structures of the liver. The hepatic veins receive the blood from the capillaries both of the portal vein and the hepatic artery, and discharge it into the ascending vena cava. The lymphatics of the liver are both deep and superficial. The deep are divided into a set associated with the portal vessels, and a set accompanying the hepatic veins. The former emerge through the portal fissure, and pass through the hepatic nodes on their way to the coeliac ; the latter empty into the vena- caval nodes. The superficial lymph-vessels of the under surface are tributaries of the hepatic nodes, while those from the upper and hind surfaces drain into the anterior mediastinal and vena-caval. The nerves of the liver are derived from the left pneumogastric, and from the solar plexus, the latter being distributed mainly to the hepatic artery, though to some extent to the portal vein. The Bile-ducts. The minute, intralobular bile-channels empty into delicate interlobular tubes, lined with very thin cells, which are continuous with the bile-secreting cells. These ducts unite and form larger tubes, lined with columnar epithelium, and constitute an interlol>ular plexus. Passing toward the portal fissure in the cap- sule of Glisson, they attain great size, and present a distinct mucous lining and a thick fibrous coat, in which are many circular and longitudinal bundles of smooth muscular tissue, irregularly disposed. One trunk from the left and one from the right unite in the pcjrtal fissure and form the Iiejxttie dud, which runs two inches downward and to the right, and there joins the cystic (gall-bladder) duct, thus forming the common bile duct (ductus communis choledochus), a tube about three inches long, which passes downward and backward to the second part of the duodenum, where it pierces the muscular wall of that bowel, runs in the submucous space for a half-inch or more, and opens in coniunction with the pan- creatic duct into the lumen of the duodenum, about four inches below the pylorus. The Gall-bladder. The gall-l)ladder (vesica fellea) (Fig. 805), the reservoir of the l)ile, is a pear-slia])('d bag, nearly four inches long, an inch and a half wide, and with a capacity of rather more than an ounce. It lies in the wide fissure to which it gives its name, some- times jorojecting a little beyond the front margin of the liver, covered on its blunt (forward) end, its sides, and its under surface by serous mem- brane, which is stretched across from the right lobe to the quadrate. Its principal coat is cora- ]iosed of condensed areolar tissue, in which are irregularly disposed many bundles of unstriped muscle. The lining of mucous membrane has a honey-comb appearance. The tube of discharge, the cystic duct, about an inch long, has a structure like the other bile ducts, but presents the peculiarity of a numl)er of oblique folds of its mucous membrane, which project into the bore and suggest the thread of a screw. All through the large bile ducts and in the gall-bladder there are mucus-secreting glands. Fir. 805.—The cystic duct in section, with part of the gall-bladrler, hepatic and common bile ducts. (Testut.)