THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 836 lower extremity makes with the horizontal plane an angle of 60° to 70°, open- ing posteriorly. The axis of the canal is not straight, bnt presents a posterior concavity, which fits a corresponding convexity of the rectal wall. The anterior vaginal wall measures two to two and a half inches in length ; the posterior varies from two and a half to three and a half inches. Continuous above with Fig. 898.—Sagittal section of the vagina and neighboring parts. (Testut.) the cervix, the vagina is further fixed in position by its connections with the bladder, rectum, vulva, and perineum. Conformation and Relations.—Above, where the vagina embraces the cervix, it is circular; below, at the vulvo-vaginal junction, it is elliptical, with the major axis antero-posterior. Between these points the anterior and posterior walls are in contact, thus reducing the canal to a mere fissure, which on transverse section is H-shaped. The vagina may therefore be divided for further description into two surfaces—the external or attached, and the internal or free; and two ex- tremities—the upper and the lower. The external surface presents two faces, an anterior and a posterior, and two lateral borders. The upper half of the anterior face is in relation with the bladder, the lower half with the urethra. The lower two-thirds of the latter is buried in the anterior vaginal wall, the upper third and the bladder are separated from this face by areolar tissue, continuous with the subperitoneal fascia. In this fascia the terminal segment of the ureter runs obliquely, to open into the bladder wall at a point one and a quarter inches below the level of the external OS. (It must not be forgotten that in the female a portion of the base of the bladder rests against the anterior surface of the cervix.) The posterior face is covered above to a varying extent (usually about one inch) by the peritoneum as it dips into the cul-de-sac of Douglas. The middle portion rests against the rectum, from which it is separated by a continuation of subperitoneal fascia. Below, it is widely separated from the termination of the rectum by the triangu- lar perineal body. The lateral borders are in contact above with a small jiortion of the broad ligaments. In the upper third they are crossed obliquely by the ureters, and below this they are embraced by the anterior margins of the levatores ani muscles and the accompanying recto-vesical fascia. By the side of the upper half of each lateral border may sometimes be found a small tube, the continuation of the duct of Gartner.