THE FIBULA. 157 grooves the posterior border. The external surface of the lower extremity of the bone, except for a narrow articular border below, is rough for ligaments which attach it to the fibula. The tibia is twisted, so that when the axis of the upper end is transverse that of the lower end is inclined from without inward and forward at an angle avei"- aging 5°-20°, but sometimes varying between 0° and 48°. Ossification.—Each epiphysis ossifies from a single centre. That in the upper end includes the tubercle and appears first. The lower end unites with the sliaft at the eighteenth or nineteenth year, the upper end in the twenty-first or twenty- second year. THE FIBULA. The fibula ("clasp" or "brace") (Figs. 176, 177) is the slender outer bone of the leg. It reaches lower than, but not as high as, the tibia. Its upper end is behind the plane of the lower end, and its shaft is slightly curved and very variable in its contour. (The Greek name of this bone is perone, the adjective from which (" peroneal") is synonymous with " fibular.") The upper extremity or head is irregularly expanded, and presents above and internally a small obliquely placed articular facet, looking upward, inward, and forward, articulating with the facet on the outer tuberosity of the tibia. Behind and slightly external to tlie facet rises a conical eminence, the styloid process, to which the short external lateral ligament of the knee is attached, while to a sliglit depression in front of and external to it are attached the external lateral ligament and the tendon of the biceps. The lower extremity is a thick pyramidal process which forms the external mal- leolus ("little hammer"). The latter is lower, more posterior, and more promi- nent than the internal malleolus. Its inner surface presents in front a triangular facet for articulation with the outer facet on the astragalus, above Avhich is a rough triangular surface for the inferior interosseous ligament. Behind the facet is a rough depression for the attachment and reception of the hind flisciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle. The posterior surface is grooved for the peronei longus and brevis. The external surface is subcutaneous and continuous with a subcutaneous triangular surface tapering upward for two or three inches upon the shaft. The shaft has four variable surfaces, each giving origin to a muscle or a group of muscles which produce a particular motion of the foot. The four borders limiting these surfaces attach fibrous septa separating the muscles or muscle- groups. The lower fourth of the shaft is twisted outward. The well-marked antero-external border begins in front of the head, and bifurcates in the lower I FIBULA Fig. 178.—Horizontal section of the bones of the leg at the junction of the upper and middle thirds, show- ing their borders and surfaces and the relations of the interosseous membrane. (Testut.) fourth to include the triangular subcutaneous surface above mentioned. To it is attached the anterior tibial fascia which separates the peronei longus and brevis, which pronate the foot and occupy the external or jironator sirrface, from the extensores longus digitorum and proprius hallucis and the peroneus tertius, which