THE EPENCEPHALON. 543 The deep fissures divide the entire upper portion of the cerebellum into segments, whieli are seen most favorably in sagittal sections. For each segment of the ver- mis there is a corresponding and connected part of each hemisphere. These do not appear plainly in the picture (Fig. 600), but Avill be understood by reference to the schematic arrangement, in which the segments are named in order from before backward, with the fissures which separate them. The segments of the vermis are the luHinla (" little tongue "), the central lobe, the culmen \" summit "), the diints {" slope "), and the cacumen (" top ") ; and the parts of the hemisphere respectively corresponding are the frenulum ("little bridle"), the ala ("wing"), the anterior or ventral crescentic lobe, the posterior or dorsal crescentie lobe, and Fin, 600.—Upper surface of cerebellum. The lingula and cacumen are concealed by overhanging; parts. Compare with scheme of this surface. (Testut.) the dorso-superior lobe. The fissures are named with reference to their situation in front of or behind the central lobe and the clivus—precentreil fissure, posteentrcd fissure, preclival fissure, and post clival fissure. Upper Surface of Cerebellum. VERMIS. HEMISPHERE. LINGULA. FRENULUM, PRECEKTRA L FISfi URE. CENTRAL LOBE. ALA. POSTCENTRAL FISSURE. CULMEN. VENTRAL CRESCENTIC LOBE. PRECLIVAL FISSURE. CLIVUS. DORSAL CRESCENTIC LOBE. POSTCLIVAL FISSURE. CACUMEN. DORSO-SUPERIOR LOBE. The under surface presents in the mid-line the In ferior vermis, separated super- ficially from the hemispheres by lateral grooves. Here, as on the upper aspect of the cerebellum, the deep fissures cut so far into the substance as to mark off segments; but the portions of the hemispheres are less easily seen to be related to correspondent parts of the vermis than in the former case. The fissures are not as regularly disposed, and the whole arrangement is complicated. Close ex- amination, however, reveals a more systematic relation than casual inspection promises, and this is shown diagrammatically in the schematic table, which would