NORMAL SKIAGRAPHS. 871 III. NORMAL SKIAGRAPHS. X little more than three years ago it was discovered that certain rays of light liave tlie ])ower of passing through siil)stances which to ordinary rays are impene- trable. On account of their undetermined character they were called originally by the name of the letter which in algebraic formula^ indicates the unknown ; and the title X-rai/t^ is still as well deserved as in tlie beginning. They are also called, t'rom their discoverer, Rontgen rays. The degrees of perviousness to these rays presented by diiferent substances vary widely. Wood oilers but little obstruction to their passage, glass cuts them oft". Of the tissues of the body those containing lime salts stop the rays most completely ; cartilage permits their passage with great readiness ; and the other textures stand at various ])oints between these extremes. The result is, that if a part of the body be suitably jilaced between an apparatus which generates these rays and a properly sensitized plate, shadows of the intervening structures which interfere with the I'ays will be cast upon the plate, and fixed there with different degrees of intensity. The plate is a negative from which photographic prints can be made, and these are called skiagraphs ("shadow-writings"). That this wonderful discovery could be turned to great advantage in surgery was immediately perceived, and its usefulness in the diagnosis of fractures and dislocations, and in the detection of certain foreign bodies, especially those which are metallic, in the tissues or cavities, has been abundantly demonstrated. In order, however, to appreciate the existence and degree of the abnormal it is important to become familiar with the normal. Consequently, there are here presented skiagraphs of diflFerent portions of the body, pictures from more than one point of view being given wherever it seemed necessary to elucidate relational anatomy by this novel means. No skiagraph of the head is included, as it has not thus far been found practicable to determine anything useful anatomically from those which have been made. In studying skiagraphs several considerations should be borne in mind, among whicli the following are ])rominent : A more dense portion of a given tissue throws a deeper shadow than a less dense portion of the same. Thus, the expanded extremities of l)ones, largely composed of cancellated tissue, show lighter than the shafts, where the tissue is compact. The thickness of the pai't influences the depth of the shadow. Thus, in a long l)one the compact structure of the shaft gives a deeper shade at the sides than in the centre, not because the tissue is denser, but because, from a given point, the rays pass through a greater amount of it. (See the metacarpal bones in Fig. 944.) An accumulation of tissue of the same or different kinds deepens the shadow. (See the condylar region in Fig. 943.) The overlapping of one part by another causes a deepening of the shadow. (See the Iiead of the radius and the coronoid process of the ulna in Fig. 943.) As cartilage gives a ready passage to the rays, the ends of bones in movable joints seem separated by unoccupied spaces, except when a convexity of one bone is received into a concavity of another of sufficient depth to produce apparent continuity of osseous tissue; and epiphyses, not yet united to their diaphyses, are held off from them by obvious gaps. The outline of a shadow does not necessarily represent the true size or shape of certain parts. For example, the outlines of tlie skiagraph of the heart, which is in constant active motion, and of the liver, which is in incessant passive motion, include greater areas than do the real shadows at any one moment of time. When such parts can be skiagraphed instantaneously, this objection will be removed.