THE VULVA. 837 On the internal or mucous surface are two median longitudinal ridges, the columns of the vayina, situated one on the anterior, the other on the posterior wall. The latter is sometimes double. From these, numerous secondary ridges pass transversely outward to the lateral boi'ders. Both the columns and secondary ridges are better marked in the lower portion of the vagina than above. After child-birth they diminish in prominence or entirely disappear. The superior extremity is attached to the circumference of the cervix reaching higher behind than in front. With the outer surface of the intra-vaginal seg- ment of tlio cervix it makes a circular pericervical trench, the fornix, which is deepest behind. The inferior extremity pierces the triangular ligament, and is the narrowest and least dilatable portion of the canal. Structure.—The vaginal wall, about one-sixth of an inch in thickness, con- sists of three coats—an outer of connective tissue, a middle of muscular tissue, and an inner of mucous membrane. The connective-tissue coat is a thin white fibrous structure, derived from the recto-vesical fascia. It contains a few smooth muscular fibres, and carries in its meshes a plexus of veins. The inuseular coat, of unstriped fibres, may be divided into two layers, superficial and deep. The fibres of the superficial layer, longitudinal in arrangement, are continuous with the superficial muscular layer of the uterus. They are also continuous above with the utero-sacral ligaments, by means of which the vagina is attached to the sacrum. Below, some of the longitudinal fibres are inserted into the ischio- pubic rami, while others are lost on the triangular ligament and recto-vesical fascia. The deeji layer is made up of circular fibres, which surround the canal. Near the vulvo-vaginal orifice these fibres are condensed into a ring of some strength, which forms an involuntary sphincter. The striated sphincter of the vagina is derived from the muscles of the perin(;um. The mucous coat, thrown into folds as already described, is covered with stratified epithelium, continuous with that lining the vulva below and covering the cervix above. Its deep layer or corium is closely attached to the muscular tunic, no special submucosa inter- vening. The lower jiortion of this coat is studded with numerous conical or fili- form papillae. Tlie upper portion presents a few closed follicles ; otherwise the mucous membrane is entirely devoid of glands. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries are all derived fnjm the internal iliac or its branches. The vaginal artery, corresponding to the inferior vesical in the male, runs along the lateral borders of the vagina, supplying arteries to the anterior and posterior surfaces. A small vaginal branch from the uterine, and anastomos- ing branches from the remaining vesicals, middle hemorrhoidal, and internal ]>udic are also supplied. The t^eins, remarkable for their number and volume, direct themselves to the lateral borders, where they form the vaginal plexuses, one on either side. These communicate with the veins of the uterus, broad ligaments, bladder, rectum, and bulbs of the vagina, and finally empty through the uterine and vaginal trunks into the internal iliac vein. The lymphatics from the lower third of the vagina, joining with those from the vulva, empty into the superficial inguinal nodes; the remainder end in the internal iliac nodes. The nerves, derived from the hypogastric plexus, the fourth sacral, and the pudic, are dis- tributed to the mucous and muscular tunics. Their mode of termination is unknown. THE VULVA. The vulva or j^ndendnm (Fig. 899), ovoid in outline, is bounded in front by the anterior abdominal wall, behind by the ]ierineum, and laterally by the inner surfaces of the thighs. It includes the following parts : (1) the mons Veneris, the labia majora, and the labia minora (all derived from the integument) ; (2) between the labia a median space called the interlabial or vulval cleft; (3) an erectile apparatus ; (4) certain glandular structures.