269 MUSCLES 3I0VING THE WHOLE HAND. MUSCLES MOVING THE WHOLE HAND. Flexors. Extensors. Flexor carpi radialis. [Flexor] palmaris longus. Flexor carpi ulnaris. Extensor carpi radialis longus. Extensor carpi radialis brevis. Extensor carpi ulnaris. OLECRA- NON EXTERNAL CONDYLE HEAD OF RADIUS Fin. (Testut.) ULNA RAblUS 295.—Supinator of right side. All arise from t^ie humerus, and the flexor and extensor on the ulnar side come from the ulna also. The palmaris longus is inserted into the palmar fascia. All which have "carpi" in their names are in- serted into /metacarpal bones, and only one of them into any part of the carpus also. Their action, however, is correctly indicated by their names, the wrist, carrying the rest of the hand, being alternately flexed and extended. The second, third, and fourth metacarpal bones have prac- tically no motion on the carpus, and the first and fifth are moved by special muscles. The pal- maris longus, though primarily a tensor of the palmar fascia, secondarily is a flexor of the hand —just as the tensor vaginae femoris is first a tightener of the fascia lata, and then an abduc- tor of the thigh—and, therefore, a bracketed word implying this, and aiding the grouping by making a uniformity of name which corresponds with the practical identity of action, has been prefixed. The adduction of the hand is accom- plished by the simultaneous action of the flexor carpi ulnaris and the extensor carpi ulnaris ; its abduction bv the simultaneous action of the flexor carpi radialis and the extensor carpi radialis longus. Observe that the external jjart of the lower end of the humerus gives origin to the e.rten- sors, the internal to the flexors. At their origin from the internal condyle and its neighborhood the flexors of the hand are so blended with the pronator teres and the flexor sul)limis digitorum as to constitute one mass. On and about the external condyle is a similar association of extensors and supinator. Flexor Carpi Radialis (Figs. 296, 297).—" The flexor of the wrist on the radial side." Sitaation, in the front of the forearm. Origin, the inner condyle of the humerus. Direction, downward and a little outward. Insertion, the base of the second metacarpal bone on its palmar aspect. Action}, fli'xion and slight pronation of the hand. In conjunction with the extensor carpi radialis longus it abducts the hand. Nerve, the median. [Flexor] Palmaris Longus (Fig. 296).—"The long palmar [flexor] muscle." Situation, in the front of the forearm. Origin, the inner condyle of the humerus. Direction, downward and slightly outward. Insertion, the palmar fascia and anterior annular ligament. Action : it tightens the fascia of the palm, and then flexes the hand. Nerve, the median. Flexor Carpi Ulnaris (Figs. 296, 298, 310).—"The flexor of the wrist on the ulnar side." Situation, in the front and inner border of the forearm. Oriejin, one head : the inner condyle of the humerus ; the other head : the inner side of the olecranon and the upper two-thirds of the hind border of the ulna. Direction, downward. Insertion, the pisiform, unciform, and fifth metacarpal bones. Action, flexion of the hand. In conjunction with the extensor carpi ulnaris it adducts the hand. Nerve, the ulnar. Extensor Carpi Radialis Longus (Figs. 299, 300).—" The long extensor of the wrist on the radial side." Situation, in the outer border of the forearm. Origin, the lower third of the external condylar ridge of the humerus. Direc-