761 MINUTE ANAT03IY OF THE LUNGS. composed of broad, flattened, non-ciliated cells of extreme thinness, among which are scattered here and there little clusters of small polygonal cells, like those ■which in the foetus form the entire epithelium of this part. The first full expan- sion of the vesicle by the inrush of air after birth stretches out almost all of the cells, but leaves in their embryonic condition the few which, if enlarged like the majority, would make the lining too voluminous. The cells are so thin that the blood in the capillaries is separated from the air by so small an amount of tissue that the least possible resistance to the passage of gases back and forth is inter- posed. At points where the edges of several cells converge are often seen minute stomata, opening into lymph-channels of the areolar tissue. The free edges of the air-vesicles support a fine arteriole, which twists in and out, now on this and then on that side of the dividing line between two adjacent alveoli, and from this tortuous encircling vessel the capUIary network is given oif to the neighboring vesicles. Those portions of this plexus which are on walls between alveoli have two surfaces exposed to air, one in one vesicle and one in another. Fig. 81!1.-The pulmonary artery. The front part of the right lung has be^n removed, and the pulmonary vessels and the bronchial tubes are thus exposed. (Testut.) Two or three infundibula may start from the end of one bronchiole. The infundibula are gathered into groups of approximately uniform size, which, with the necessary vessels, nerves, and uniting areolar tissue, constitute lobules. The lobules at the periphery of a lung are more or less pyramidal ; but the others are packed together so closely that they have become reciprocally compressed into various and fantastic forms. Between the lobules is areolar tissue, which is abundant in the infant, scanty in the adult; consequently their isolation is easy in the former, and difficult or even impossible in the latter case. This interlobular areolar tissue and also that between the alveoli after early life is the seat of a deposit of carbonaceous matter, doubtless inhaled, and carried by lympli-ehannels to this tissue and to lymph-