707 THE MOUTH. —twenty of the temporary set, and twenty-eight of the permanent. The four wisdom-teeth at this time are only embryonic buds (Fig. 756). The Gums. The gums [gingicai) are dense, smooth mucous membrane, fused upon the periosteum of the alveolar processes. They are very resistant to pressure, and have comparatively slight sensitiveness. The floor of the mouth is formed mainly by the tongue, in small part by the sublinp-ual structures. THE TONGUE. The tongue (lincjua) (Fig. 757) is composed mostly of voluntary muscles, which give it protean power of clianging its shape. Its upi)er surface can be convexed or concaved ; its point can be thrust forward beyond the lips, drawn backward nearly or quite to the junction of the hard and soft palates, swept over the entire surface of the vestibule above and below; in short, the free portion of this organ can be made to assume such a multitude of forms as to defy description. This capacity accounts for its varied usefulness in the processes of prehension, chewing, swallow! ng, speech, touch, taste, and expression. The part of the tongue which presents a free sur- face upward and backward is called the dor><uin. The anterior two-thirds of this is in the floor" of the mouth, the posterior third in the front wall of the pharynx. The ])haryn- geal part of the dorsum forms the very slojiing floor of the space marked otf on each side by the two pillars of the soft ])a]ate. It has a mam- millated appearance, caused by the presence of numerous racemose glands and lymphoid masses. Just behind the apex of the series of circuravallate papillas (described on a previous page) is a little aperture, the foramen cm-um ("blind hole"), the remnant of a f etal canal. At the lowest part of the pharyngeal surface the mucosa is raised into three sagittal folds connecting the tongue with the larynx, the central one being the largest, and inserted into the upper surface of the epi- glottis. The oral portion of the dorsum, when entirely at rest, is convex in every UVULA I PHARYNX il i Fig. 757.—Dorsal surface of the tongue. (Testut.)