674 THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. Like other portions of the osseous labyrinth the cochlea is lined with peri- odeum. Upon the upper surface of the bony, spiral lamina, however, the peri- osteum is greatly modified, being much thickened, and ending above the free border of the lamina in a deeply grooved edge, the sulcus spiralis, already men- tioned. This pad of modified periosteum is the Zm6ws (" border "). Along the free edge of the spiral lamina the basilar membrane of the canal of tlie cochlea is attached, and stretches straight across to the opposite wall, where the peri- osteum is very thick and projects to meet it, constituting the spiral ligainent. The membrane of Reissner is attached to the upper surface of the limbus. Thus it is seen that the lamina spiralis and the canal of the cochlea together divide the lumen of the bony cochlea into two unequal parts—one, the smaller, above, called the scala vestibuli, because it opens into the vestibule ; and the other, and larger one, below, called the scala tympani, because its lower end presents at tlie fenestra rotunda {" round window"), where it would be in continuity with the tynipanum (the drum of the ear), were it not for the complete closure of this window. It is now clear why the canal of the cochlea, which is between the scalse vestibuli and tympani, is sometimes called the scala media. The scalse vestibuli and tympani have communication only by a small opening, the helicotrema {" hole of the coil ") at the highest point, the cupola, of the cochlea. From the scala tympani near its large end a little canal, the aqueductus cochlece, gives passage to a little vein into the inferior petrosal sinus near the jugular fossa. The Auditory Nerve.—The base of the modiolus presents toward the internal auditory meatus, from which it receives a large part of the auditory nerve. The fibres of the nerve run in the modiolus to the attached edge of the spiral lamina, and then through this to its free edge, whence they are distributed to the organ of Corti, as previously detailed. The fibres destined for the lower turn of the spiral are at the outside of the bundle, those for the apex in the centre. Within the lamina the nerves pass of cells, constituting the spiral ffanglion As has been already stated, the space between the membranous labyrinth and the osseous labyrinth is filled with perilymph. This space communicates through the sheath of the auditory nerve with the subdural and subarachnoid spaces, whose fluid is lym- phatic in character, like that of all serous membranes. Communication has also been shown to exist between the cavity of the membranous labyrinth and the subdural s])ace by means of the saccus endolym- phaticus. THE MIDDLE EAR OR TYMPANUM. The middle ear (Figs. 725, 726) is situated at the outer side of the inner ear or labyrinth, and between the latter and the external ear. It is known as the ti/mpanum or drum of the ear, and various features of its structure justify the name. Like the labyrinth the tympanum is located in the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It is a fore-and-aft cleft, deep, long, and narroAV. Its roof is formed by a rather thin plate of bone, which separates its cavity from that of the cranium. Its external and internal walls present the greatest expanses of surface, and con- verge to its floor, which has hardly any width. The tympanum is lined through a mass Fig. 725.—Chain of ossicles and their liga- ments, seen from the front in a vortical, trans- verse section of the tympanum. (Testut.)