649 THE OBLONGATA. nucleus cuneatus (Biirdacli) ; and connected with the last is the head of the dorsal horn, related, as in the tirst section, to a root of the trifacial nerve. A lower section exhibits further changes (Fig. 608), The pyramid and fillet are smaller; the head and l)ase of the ventral hf)rn ai'e nearer; the tenth nerve has vanished ; all of the remaining gray masses are drawing together; the sides • '3- -HEAD OF DORSAL HORN BASE OF VENTRAL HORN HEAD OF VENTRAL HORN Fig. 608—Transverse section of oblongata at the crossing of the fillets. (Testut.) DORSAL MEDIAN FISSURE OTOR ^" ROOTS VENTRAL MEDIAN FISSURE Fig. 609.—Transverse section of oblon- gata at the decussation of the pyramids. (Testut, after Duval.) of the oblongata have grown np around the middle line, and have shut in deeply the ventricle, which in this lowest part is tubular; and from the nuclei gracilis and cuneatus thick bundles of fibres course ventrally, decussate in the middle line, and end in the fillet of the opposite side. Through the middle of the decussation of the pyramids the section has a practically cir- cular outline (Fig. 609). The pyramid is smaller than before, and from it runs dorsally a bundle of fibres, which crosses its fellow of the opposite side in the middle line. The fillet is no longer seen ; the base and head of tlie ventral horn are closer, being now sepa- rated only by the decussating bundles of the pyramid ; the base of the dorsal horn is nearer the centre of the section, its head is smaller ; the nucleus cuneatus is lost, and the nucleus gracilis stretches out as a long process from the base of the dorsal horn. Tlie ventral and dorsal median fissures are shallow, and from the latter a neurogliar septum stretches to the central gray mass. Nerve-roots are given off from DORso-LATERAL ^^^^ hcads of both horns. / COLUMN Finally, a section at the line between oblongata and cord (Fig. 610) shows that the nucleus gracilis has been left above, and that tlie other gray masses are com])letely united, and are ar- ranged in a form suggestive of the letter X, the canal being in the centre of the crossing arms. The dorsal limbs of the X are the dorsal horns, the ventral limbs the ventral horns, the base of each horn being the part near the centre, the head In each lateral half, between the dorsal horn and the DORSAL MEDIAN FISSURE CROSSED PYRAM IDAL TRACT VENTBAL..V HORN VENTRAL.^ ROOTS VENTRAL MEDIAN FISSURE Fig. 610.—Transverse sectiim of the oblongata at its lower end. (Testut.) being the free extremity.