THE MUSCLES. 248 only one joint has but two possibilities of action : one, which may be called its direct action, is from a fixed origin to a movable insertion; the other, its rever-sed action, is from a fixed insertion to a movable origin. But many muscles cross two or more joints, and by so much is the number of their movements aug- mented. For instance, the superficial flexor of the fingers primarily and directly flexes the second phal- anges upon the first phalanges (Fig. 262, A); but, when this movement is completed or is prevented, continuance of the contraction causes flexion of the first phalanges upon the metacarpal bones, and this may be called the direct secondary action (Fig. 262 B). When this movement is accomplished or ar- rested, still further contraction produces flexion of the whole hand upon the forearm—the dit-ect tertiary action (Fig. 262, C); and, finally, by persistence in the performance, the forearm is flexed slightly upon the arm—the direct quaternary action (Fig. 262, D). The reversed actions in these various stages are too obvious to require descrijation. The segment of a limb on which a muscle acts carries with it, of course, all of the parts distal to it; and the movement effected by the contraction of the muscles is more manifest upon those parts than upon the segment bearing them, since they describe larger arcs. This is particularly noticeable in the prona- tion and supination of the radius. The change in the relation of the lateral parts of the forearm is far less apparent thaii the alteration in the attitude of the hand, which passively accompanies the radius. The Blending of Muscles.—Muscles are often asso- ciated in groups so intimately that, either at origin or insertion, there is an actual blending of substance. Myologists have not agreed upon an absolute rule for the settlement of the question of division or vmi- fication in these cases, some describing as two or three distinct muscles what others regard as a compound one. There is much in this connection which is conventional and arbitrary, and, consequently, perplexing. The Muscles in Pairs.—Almost all of the skeletal muscles are arranged in pairs, and thus a description of one on either side will answer for its mate on the opposite side. A few are single and located about the median line, and in these there is generally a bilateral symmetry. The Size of Muscles varies from a fraction of an inch to many inches. In form they are extremely diverse, and only in a small proportion is their resem- blance to familiar objects sufficiently striking to justify the application of names intended to be descriptive of their shape. Fig. 262.—Diagram showing the primary, secondary, tertiary, etc. actions of a muscle. (F. H. G.) The Nomenclature of Muscles. Latinity of Names.—The muscles are almost always called by their Latin names. A few have become Anglicized, commonly by the omission of the ter- mination (as deltoid instead of deltoideus) ; but the attempts which have been made to displace the Latin appellations by substituting English translations of them have always failed. The student, however, should learn the exact meaning of every name, as this knowledge cannot fail to be of great assistance to him. For example, almost one-half of the names of the muscles moving the several