342 THE MUSCLES. SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES OF THE HEAD. Muscles of Mastication. Masseter. Pt6rygoideus iiiternus. Temjioralis. Pterygoideus externus. Muscles of Expression. 1. Muscles Affecting the Orifice of the Mouth. Orbicularis oris. Levator anguli oris. Levator labii superioris alseque Risorius. nasi. Buccinator. Levator labii superioris proprius. Depressor anguli oris. Zygomaticus minor. Depi'essor labii infcrioris. Zygomaticus major. Levator labii int'erioris. 2. Muscles of the Nose. Pyramidalis nasi. Levator labii superioris alseque Compressor naris. nasi. Depressor alse nasi. 3. Muscles of the Lids. Orbicularis palpebrarum. Tensor tarsi. Levator palpebrse. 4. Muscles of the Forehead. Corrugator supercilii. Frontalis. 5. Muscle of the Occiput. Occipitalis. The Muscles of Mastication. Masseter (Figs. 407, 402).—" The chewing-muscle." Situation, in the back part of the side of the face. It consists of two portions, the superficial and the deep, which blend at their insertion. The superficial portion arises from the lower margin of the anterior two-thirds of the zygoma, passes down- and back- ward, and is inserted on the outside of the lower half of the ramus of the man- dible. The deej) portion arises from the entire inner surface and the hind third of tlie lower border of the zygoma, passes downward, and is inserted into the upper half of the ramus of the mandible. Action, elevation of the lower jaw. Nerve, the inferior maxillary division of the trifacial. Temporalis (Fig. 405).—"The temple muscle." Situation, in the temporal fossa. Origin, the entire temporal fossa, except the anterior wall. Direction, down- ward. Insertion, the coronoid process of the mandible. Action, elevation of the lower jaw, and, when this has been drawn forward, its retraction. Nerve, the inferior maxillary division of the trifacial. Pterygoideus Internus (Fig. 406).—" The internal pterygoid muscle," so-called from its position and origin. Synonym, the internal masseter. Situation, the inner side of the ramus of the mandible. Origin , the inner surface of the extei- nal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid, and the tuberosities of the palate and superior maxillary bones. Direction, down-, back-, and outward. Insertion, the inner side of the ramus of the mandible, between the angle and the dental foramen. iction, elevation of the lower jaw. When the jaw is closed, the muscle draws it forward. Nerve, the inferior maxillaiy division of the trifacial. Pterygoideus Externus (Fig. 406).—" The external pterygoid muscle," named from its position and origin. Situation, in the zygomatic fossa. Origin, by two