251 THE MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. THE MUSCLES OP THE UPPER LIMB. Movements of the Upper Limb. Each of the four primary segments of the upper limb is capable of a wide rano^e of action. Movements of the Shoulder.—In the chajiter on the joints the scapula is shown to be somewhat movable upon the clavicle ; but, in studying the principal action of the muscles, the movements of the claviculo-acromial joint may be ignored with- out serious departure from the fact, and the skeleton of the shoulder may be regarded as practically a single bone. This framework is pivoted upon the trunk at the sterno-clavicular articulation, and is proximally attached at other points by muscles only. The movements of the shoulder, therefore, centre on the upper end of the sternum, and are made upward, downward, forward, and backward, the terms used to designate them—elevation, depression, etc.—requiring no explanation. Movements of the Arm.—The arm, being united to the shoulder by means of a ball-and-socket joint, can be moved in every direction which is consistent with the integrity of the articular structures and with the retention of the humeral head in the glenoid fossa. Its movement forward is flexion, backward is exten- sion, outward is abduction, inward is adduction. When it is rolled on its ow'n axis so that its front turns toward the trunk, the movement is inioard rotation ; when it revolves so as to turn its front away from the trunk, the action is external rotation. Its circumduction is imoard when the front semicircle described by the lower end of the arm is made from the outside toward the mid-line, and the oppo- site movement is outicard. circnrnduction. Movements of the Forearm.—The elbow-joint proper is a hinge, allowing motion between the forearm and arm only forward, which \s flexion, and backward, which is extension. Between the two forearm bones, however, are movements which consist in the overlapping of the ulna by the radius, pronation, and the opposite action by wliich the parts are restored to their anatomical attitude, supination. Movements of the Hand.—The articulation between the' forearm and carpus permits motion of tlie hand forward, which is flexion, backward which is exten- sion, sidewise toward the mid-line, adduction, and from this line, abduction. Cir- cumduction, which is accomplished by a combination of these movements, is inward or outward, according to the rule given above. In these various move- ments of the whole hand some motion takes place in the joints between the car- ])al bones ; but these are so slight as to be practically inappreciable, and require no further mention. Movements of the Metacarpal Bones.—The second, third, and fourth metacarjxd bones are so firmly joined to the carpus that but little motion is possible, even when their respective digits are most forcibly acted upon. The fifth metacarprd l)one has an apju'cciable forward movement, which is flexion, a backward, which is extension, and slight lateral motions, abduction and adduction. The first meta- carpcd is so articulated at the wrist that its range is very great, and this freedom of action is more than a compensation for the deficiency of a phalanx in its digit. Movements of the Common Digits.—Forward movement of the fingers and of each of their phalanges \^ flexion, and backward movement is extension. The lateral movements of tlie fingers are called cdxiuction and adduction ; but the median line of the body is not here taken as the plane from and to which the action is reckoned, a line drawn through the middle of the middle finger when it is in repose being substituted. There is practically no lateral motion at the interphalangeal joints. Movements of the Thumb.—It is to be particularly noticed that the first metacarpal is so placed that the thumb is in advance of the plane of the other digits and its palmar aspect is about at a right angle with theirs. Consequently, a bending at the joints of the thumb toward its palmar aspect, which is flexion, as in the case (jf the other digits, causes it to cross the palm of the hand to^\•ard the hypothenar eminence. The restoring movement is e.vtension. Abduction of