734 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. and are thought to be permanent. At the margin of the opening from the rectum to the anal canal are five or six small crescentic loops, smi/inwr wafoes (Fig. 793), BULGES OF HEMOH-: ANAL ISEMILUNAR VALUE RHOIDAL VEINS CANAL Fig. 793.—The anal canal and lower part of the rectum, laid open. (Testut.) separated by vertical ridges, the anal columns, upon which are little protrusions due to hemorrhoidal veins. THE ANAL CANAL. The anal canal (Figs.791-793) is the channel l)y which the rectum is placed in con- nection with the external surface of the body. It is an inch long, and runs down- ward and backward. It is lined with a membrane, which is mucous at the ujjper end, cutaneous at the lower, and a cross between the two elsewhere. Outside of this lining is an emljracing muscle, the internal sphincter, composed of bundles of smooth fibres, arranged circularly. The lateral walls of the tube are in con- tact, and the lining membrane is disposed in small, longitudinal folds. The distal aperture is the anus, and around it the skin is dark brown, and puckered in radiating lines. GLANDS ACCESSOEY TO THE ALIMENTARY TUBE. In the development of the digestive canal bud-like processes grow out from it at several points, and ultimately become glands, furnishing abundant secretions, which are discharged into the tube through ducts. These glands are the sali- vary, the pancreas, and the liver, and they will now be considered in the order given. THE SALIVARY GLANDS. The saliva, is a compound fluid, resulting from the mixture of the secretions of a number of glands, which discharge their products into the mouth. Thei'e are many mucous glands, two collections of which on each side require mention. One is at the hind part of the oral ]5ortion of the tongue, at the side and below, and is called the gland of Weber (Fig. 794, gl. w.). The other is beneath the lateral border of the tongue near the tip, and is known as the gland of Blandin (Fig. 794, GL. B. and Fig. 758). The so-called salivary corpuscles are derived from the tonsils. But the great volume of the saliva is furnished by three pairs of glands—the parotid, the submaxillary, and the sublingual. Of these the first