THE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. 654 ("reticular process"), or reticuJa, and it is most marked in the upper cervical i-egion. The base of the dorsal horn bulges toward the middle line of the cord, forming the column of Clarke, a structure found in the thoracic region and a little above and below it. The Ijand connecting the two commas is the gray commissure, and it contains the central canal of the spinal cord, a minute channel, continuous with the fourth ventricle of the brain, from which it extends to the middle of the filum termiuale. It is not patent in every part of its course. VENTRAL MEDfAN FISSURE VENTRAL ROOTS „ 'I I DORSAL MEDIAN FISSURE Fig. 615.—Transverse section of the spinal cord at the middle of the thoracic region. (Testut, after Pierret.) The various fissures which have been mentioned are all seen to have little depth, excepting the ventro-median, which cuts far into the substance of the cord, and reaches almost to the gray commissure. Between the dorso-median fissure and the gray commissure is a septum of neuroglia, which sepai'ates the two dor- sal columns from each other. The ventral and lateral columns are continuous around the head of the ventral horn, and, on this account, it is not uncommon to speak of them as a single structure—the ventro-lateral column. The two ventral columns are connected in their deepest parts by the white commissure, which is in contact with the gray commissure. These facts are shown diagrammatically in the left half of Fig. 616. A knowledge of the obvious features which have been mentioned, while necessary for purposes of description, affoi'ds little practical help in the study of the physiology of the cord ; and, consequently, it is essential to know the delimi- tations of the paths by which motor impulses and sensory impressions are con- ducted to and fro in this organ of intermediation between the highest centres of the cerebrum and the most distant areas of the periphery. To a large extent these paths have been ascertained, and will now be indicated. It will be seen that there is little in the gross appearance of the cord to give information as to the boundaries of these cables of telegraphic communication. The right half of the diagram (Fig. 616) will aid in the understanding of the few succeeding paragraphs. The Conduction Paths of the Cord.—In the ventral column a narrow triangular area is marked off' next to the ventro-median fissure. This is the direct pyramidal tract—" pyramidal," because it is a downward extension of a part of the pyramid of the oblongata ; " direct," because this path is on the same side of the middle line in encephalon and in cord. It gradually diminishes in size from above downward, and disappears at the level of the root of the last lumbar nerve.