THE ARTICULATIONS. 206 convexity forward in the former, and increase that in the latter, region. Those in the thoracic region are thicker behind, if anywhere, and so increase its curve. They form in the aggregate one-quarter of the length of the movable part of the vertebral column, which assumes a single curve, concave in front, the curve of old age, if the discs are removed or dried up. In structure the discs are made up of two parts. The external or laminar portion forms more than half the POST. COM- MON LIGAMENT Fig. 226.—Two lumbar vertebrae In sagittal section. (Testut.) mass, and consists of concentric layers of fibrous tissue with more and more cartilage-cells toward the centre. The fibres pass obliquely between the vertebrae and in the reversed direction in adjoining layers. Some layers are found only in front, making this part of the disc thicker, so that the central or pulpy portion is situated a little behind the centre. The latter is a yellowish elastic, ball-like mass, composed of a fine fibrous matrix, imbedded in which is a net-work of angular, branching cells, more numerous toward the centre. It is a remnant of the notochord. On section of the disc through the pulpy portion the latter bulges out above the rest, showing that it is compressed by the laminar portion, so that it forms, as it were, a ball or pivot upon which the vertebral bodies move. A synovial cavity is described by Luschka in each central pulpy portion. The intervertebral discs are surrounded on all sides by a sheath of fibrous ligaments, incomplete laterally where the thin and more or less scattered fibres reach from one bone to the next, and are sometimes called the lateral or short vertebral ligaments. The anterior common ligament is the strong band on the front of the bodies of the vertebrae. It extends from the under surface of the occipital bone, in the median line in front of the foramen magnum, to the front of the sacrum, reappearing below as the anterior sacro-coccygeal ligament. Above it is narrow and cord-like, and forms the thickened central portion of the anterior occipito-atlantal and of the anterior atlanto-axial ligaments. Below this it becomes broader as it descends. Of its fibres, which are dense, well-marked, and longitudinal, the superficial pass over several, the deep only between adjacent vertebrae. The fibres are attached to the intervertebral discs and to the edges of the vertebral bodies, and bridge over the median depressions of their ventral surface, thus rendering this surface more even. It limits extension. The posterior common ligament extends along the dorsal surface of the bodies of the vertebrae within the spinal canal from the basilar groove of the occipital bone to the coccyx. Its upper end, often l)ilaminar, forms the jwsterior oceipito- axial ligament between the axis and occipital bone. It is broad and even in the neck, extending completely across the vertebral bodies, narrower and dentated below. The broad dentations are at its attachment to the discs and margins of the vertebrae, and between them are the narrowed portions, separated from the backs of the bodies by venous plexuses. The sujierficial fibres extend over several