THE EARLY STAGES OF DEVELOPMENT. 81 equator of the vesicle is the region over wliich the endoderm layer has extended; and, lastly, the lower half of the vesicle is formed only of a single layer of cells, as in earlier stages. As development proceeds the embryonic shield increases in size and assumes an oval shape, and near one end of it there appears a dark longi- tudinal band which is termed the jjrimifive streak (Fig. 92, i>), and which is formed by the fusion of the ectoderm and endoderm. From this line of fusion cells grow out on either side into the space between the ectoderm and endoderm, and consti- tute a middle layer, the mesoderm. The three layers of cells thus produced constitute what are termed the germ- layers, and it is by the differentiation of the cells comjiosing them that the various tissues and organs of the embryo are developed, eacli layer giving rise to certain definite structures. There has not yet appeared, how- ever, any distinct indication of tlie embryo proper. This makes its appearance soon after the formation of the primitive streak in the form of a groove (Fig. 93), extending from what may be considered the front end of the streak almost to the front edge of the embryonic shield ; the groove is l)ounded by two ridges, which unite in front, but diverge somewliat behind, so as to emljrace the front end of the primitive streak. The groove is termed the medullary groove, and the ridges ai'e the medullary ridges, the whole forming the anlage or rudiment of the central nervous system. Immediately beneath the medullary groove another groove likewise appears in the endoderm, the convexity of this groove being directed toward tlie floor of the medullary groove ; its two lips later unite, the cavity of the canal so formed disappears, and a solid rod of peculiar texture, known as the notochonl, is produced, lying imme- diately beneath the central nervous system (Fig. 94). Fig. 93.—Formation of priniitive streak and medullary- groove. (Kolliker.) AORTA. VESSELS. Fig. 94.—Transverse section through dorsal region of embryo. It has already been stated that the mesoderm forms in the region of the primitive streak ; it also arises from those portions of the endoderm which are immediately adjacent to the notocliovdal groove on either side, and there is thus produced on each side of the middle line of the embryonic shield a sheet of mesoderm, which, however, early undergoes differentiation. In the first place, 6