580 THE NEBVES. Of these the great superfiekd petroml nerve enters the cranium through the carti- lage which closes the foramen lacerum medium by the outer side of the internal carotid artery, and, passing backward and outward in a groove on the petrous bone under the Gasserian ganglion, enters the hiatus Fallopii to join the genicu- late ganglion of the fjicial nerve. It receives a twig from the tympanic branch of the glossopharyngeal. The great deep petroml nerve, which joins this to form the A^idian nerve just outside the Vidian canal, can be traced to the plexus of the sympathetic on the internal carotid arter3^ Some works describe this as the carotid branch of the Vidian, and give the name of great deep petrosal to the twig from the glossopharyngeal which joins the great superficial petrosal. The branches of distribution of Ileckel's ganglion are grouped as ascending, internal, descending, and posterior. (a) Ascending Branches.—These are the orbital branches, two or three exceed- ingly minute twigs which pass through the sphenomaxillary fissure to the perios- teum of the orbit, and the mucous membrane of the posterior ethmoidal and sphenoidal sinuses. (6) Internal branches are partly derived from the ganglion ; but are largely traceable over its inner surface into the sensory roots. They are superior nascd and nasopalcdine. The superior nasal nerves are several small twigs which enter the nose through the sphenopalatine foramen, to supply the mucous membrane over the upper and back part of the superior and middle turbinated bones and septum, as well as the posterior ethmoidal cells. The nasopcdcdine nerve (Fig. 628) passes to the nasal septum, also through the sphenopalatine foramen. It runs downward and forward in a groove on the vomer between the periosteum and mucous membrane, contributing some small septal branches and communicating with the nasal branch of the anterior superior dental nerve. The two nasopalatine nerves, one on each side of the nasal septum, thus reach the median segments of the anterior palatine canal (foramina of Scarpa), through which they pass to the roof of the mouth, the left nerve occupying the anterior foramen. In the lower part of the anterior palatine canal they unite in a plexiform net- work, and are then distributed to the mucous membrane behind the incisor teeth, communicating with the anterior palatine nerve. (c) Descending Branches (Fig. 629).—These are the three palatine nerves, ante- rior or great, posterior or small, and external. They are frequently given off as one trunk. The great or anterior pcdcdine nerve, springing from the lower angle of Meckel's ganglion, descends in the posterior palatine canal, and runs forw^ard, in grooves, on the hard palate, supplying the gums and roof of the mouth, and communicating with the nasopalatine nerve. It contributes inferior nasal branches to the back part of the inferior turbinated bone and middle and inferior meatus. The small or posterior palatine nerve descends in one of the accessory palatine canals to the tonsil, uvula, and soft palate, and through it motor fibres possibly pass from the facial nerve to the levator palati and azygos uvulfe, though the pars accessoria ad vagum is now regarded as supplying these muscles. The external paledine nerve occujnes another accessory palatine canal, in which it descends to the soft palate and tonsil. It is occasionally absent. (d) Posterior Branches.—The twigs supplied by the Vidian in the Vidian canal to the upper part of the nose are derived from the sphenoijalatine roots of the ganglion, and only accompany the Vidian nerve. The pharyngecd brancJb springs from the ganglion beside the Vidian, with which it may be incorpoi'ated. It runs backward in the pterygopalatine canal with the vessel of that name to the posterior nares and nasojiharynx, Eustachian tube, and sphenoidal sinuses. The Third, Inferior Maxillary, or Mandibular Division of the Fifth Nerve (Fig. 642).—The mandibular division of the jifth nerve is larger than either of the