245 THE MUSCLES. By F. H. GEKRISH. Amuscle is an organ whose essential part is a mass of striated muscular tissue, prolonged at its opposite ends or margins by cords, bands, or sheets of white fibrous tissue, which are fastened to other structures, usually bones. Tlie mus- cular tissue is contractile, and is the active portion of the organ ; the fibrous is strong and flexible, but is only passive. The contractile portion is called the muscle lii'oper, the bdly, or the body of the muscle; the fibrous extensions are called tendons (sinews), and sometimes, when greatly expanded, aporieuroses. The muscle proper may be compared to an engine, in which force is genei'ated ; its tendons to the ropes by which the power is applied to distant objects. The relation of the tendons to the body of the muscle varies greatly in differ- ent muscles, both as regards their proportion and their arrangement. The belly may have tendinous structure only at its extremities, or one or both of the ten- dons may start far back upon the surface of the contractile mass, or a tendon may be in large part concealed in the midst of the muscular tissue. Several plates of tendon may be thus embedded, all connected with the terminal cord. When the tendons are found only at the ends of a muscle, the fibres of the two kinds of tissue are substantially in the same axis ; but, when one of the other arrangements obtains, the muscular fibres are placed at an angle to the tendinous, as the barbs of a feather are related to the quill. In a few muscles there is a third tendon midway of its contractile mass, which is thus divided into two, becoming double-bellied—in technical phrase, digastric or birentrcd. One or more narrow, fibrous interruptions, partial or complete, may occur in some long muscles, constituting tendinous inscriptions. Bones in Tendons.—Small osseous masses, called sesamoid ("like sesame") bones, are sometimes developed in tendons at points where they play over joints and are exposed to great pressure. Some of these are constant, as the patella, which is a sesamoid bone in the great muscle which straightens the leg on the thigh. Synovial Sheaths of Tendons.—Synovial membrane of the vaginal form is developed around many tendons which run in canals, as in the case of various digital muscles. Bursal synovicd membranes are found at very manv spots where tendons press upon one another or upon other organs, especially where they pass over prominences of bone. An articular synovial membrane may be ])rolonged beyond its joint, and furnish a lubricating sheath to the tendon of a neighboring muscle. Attachments of Tendons.—A tendon may be long or short; it may resemble a cord, a ribbon, or a sheet. In the last case it is commonly called an aponeurosis —an undesirable, because etymologically misleading, name, but now firmly fixed by eminent sanction. Tendons are usually fastened to bones and cartilages, but may be attached to ligaments, skin, and other soft parts. The fibrous tissue of the tendon intermingles, and becomes continuous, with the periosteum of the bone, the perichondrium of the cartilage, or the deep layer of the skin, thus blending with a structure which is histologically identical with itself. When one con-