103 ORGANS DERIVED FROM THE ECTODERM. of the groove on the clitoris do not fuse, but become greatly enlarged, and form the labia 'minora, and the labia majora remain separated by a depression into which the urethra, developed in this case from the urogenital sinus alone, and the ma open (Fig. 119). The final arrangement of the female external Fig. 119.—Development of vagina. (Hertwig.) Fig. 120.—Development of the female external geni- tals. (Hertwig.) genitalia may thus be readily compared with an early stage of development of the male organs, the latter undergoing a greater amount of diiferentiation than those of the female. ORGANS DERIVED FROM THE ECTODERM. Of the ectoderm the derivatives are the outer layers of the skin and its appendages—hairs, nails, sudoriparous, sebaceous, and mammary glands—and the nervous system and sense-organs. Of the former a detailed account is unnecessary hei'e, but the nervous system requires due consideration. The Nervous System. As has been seen, the central nervous system makes its appearance as the medullary groove. As development proceeds the lips of the groove gradually come together, and eventually fuse, transforming the groove into the medullary canal, broader in front than behind, and running the entire length of tlie body. The cavity of the canal becomes the central canal of the spinal cord and the ventricles of the brain, while its walls become converted into the various parts of the central nervous system. At first the cells composing the walls of the canal are prac- tically similar, but later certain of them, the neuroblasts, Iving nearer the central canal, l)egin to proliferate rapidly, forming nerve-cells (Fig. 121), while the remainder, the spongioblasts, scatter themselves among the nerve-cells and become the neuroglia, some of them eventually coming to line the central canal and forming the ependiima, (emlyma). The walls of the canal also become of unequal thick- ness, the portions in the dorsal and ventral mid-lines becoming thin and forming SPONGJOBLAST Fig. 121.—Development of nerve-cells and neuroglia-cells in wall of the medullary canal. (Testut and His.)