571 THE THIRD OR OCULO-MOTOR NERVE. seventh on the same level, but more mesial. Lastly the ninth, tenth, and eleventh form two columns (sensory and motor), and the tAvelfth a third column, which extend almost the whole length of the oblongata. Fig. 632.—Diagram of the motor nuclei in and near Fig. 633.—Diagram of tlie sensory nuclei in the floor of the fourth ventricle. (Testut.) the floor of the fourth ventricle. (Testut.) Connection's of the Nuclei of the Cranial Nerves with the Cor- tex Cerebri. The cortical connections of the olfactory and optic nerves have already been described. The motor tract for the other ci'anial nerves seems to run from the motor area of the cerebral cortex, down through the genu of the internal capsule, pyramidal segment (middle third of the crusta) of the erus cerebri, and pyra- midal tract of the pons and medulla to nearly opposite their respective nuclei. It then crosses through the raphe and passes the formatio reticularis to the motor nuclei of the opposite side. Round the cells of the motor nuclei the pyramidal fibres end, and from these cells fresh fibres pass by the motor nerve-roots to the periphery. The cortical centre for the facial occupies the lower ends of the precentral and postcentral gyri; the hypoglossal centre is in the lower end of the precentral and posterior end of the inferior frontal gyri. The sensory tract is less known but, on leaving the sensory nuclei, it appears to cross to the opposite fillet, and thus pass to the superior quadrigeminal body and subthalamic region or thalamus, some part of it going through the jiosterior third of the hind limb of the internal capsule to the cortex cerebri behind the motor ai'ea. The course of the nerve-roofs from their nuclei to superficial origins is as follows : The roots of the third, fifth, sixth, eighth, twelfth, and the sensory roots of the ninth, tenth, and eleventh, run in nearly straight lines ventro-laterally from nucleus to point of superficial emergence. The fourth is altogether exceptional (.see special description). The motor roots of the seventh, ninth, tenth, and eleventh run at first dorso-mesially toward the floor of the ventricle and then bend outward, and lastly ventrally to join the sensory roots, the seventh running upward for some distance before it turns outward. We now pass to a particular description of the cranial nerves from the third to the tivelfth, inclusive of both. The first and second nerves have already been fully considered. The Third or Ocuio-motor Nerve. The nucleus of the third nerve (Fig. 635), the oculo-motor ("eye-mover"), consists of several distinct groups of cells, lying on the floor of the aqueduct.