THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS. 93 of the ossicles of the middle ear. The cartilages of the second and third arches unite to form the hyoid bone, the small horn, the stylo-hyoid ligaments, and the styloid processes of the temporals representing the complete second arch, while the great horn represents the incomplete third arch. The fourth and fifth arches become greatly reduced, and fuse together, as already indicated, to form the thyroid cartilage of the larynx. The bones of the extremities are all preformed in cartilage, and for the long bones at least two or three centres of ossification are usually present, one being for the shaft and one for each epiphysis, these latter, however, being merely provisions for the growth in length of the bone, and not representing originally distinct bones. In the scapula, however, two primary centres are formed, one for the greater portion of the bone, and one for the coracoid process, which in the lower vertebrates is a distinct bone; and similarly three primary centres are found in each hip-bone, one for the os pubis, one for the ischium, and one for the ilium, each of these being primarily a distinct bone. In the carpus and tarsus certain fusions also occur. Typically, each consists of nine bones arranged in a proximal row of three bones, a distal row of five bones, and a single bone between the two. The following scheme will show the fusions which have taken place, each composite bone ossifying from two centres, the rest from one : Carpus. Tarsus. Scaphoid, Radiale. Semilunar, Intermediate. Cuneiform, Ulnare. (Fused with Scaphoid) Centrale. Trapezium, Carpal I. Trapezoid, " II. Os Magnum, " III. Unciform, | ^1^' Tibiale, 1 * + i T , T , Astragalus Intermediate, J ° Fibulare, Centrale, Tarsal I., " 11-, " III., " IV., 1 " v., j- Calcaneum. Navicular. Internal Cuneiform. Middle Cuneiform. External Cuneiform. Cuboid. The pisiform does not belong to the same category as the other carpal bones, being an ossification in the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, just as the patella is an ossification in the tendon of the quadriceps extensor femoris. Such bones are known as sesamoid bones. The Heart and Blood-vessels. It has already been seen that the formation of the blood-vascular system begins in the area opaca of the blastodermic vesicle, and thence extends toward the embryo, two vessels, the vitelline veins, carrying the blood from the yolk-sac to the embryo. While the embryo is still spread out flat upon the surface of the blastodermic vesicle the splanchnic layer of the mesoderm on each side of the body buds off a small collection of cells (Fig. 106, endocardium) into the space between it and the endoderm ; these early arrange themselves in a tubular form, and become enclosed within a fold of the splanchnic mesoderm. This folds (Fig. 106, myocardium), and tubes so formed are the anlagen of the heart, the two halves of which are at first widely separated ; but as the embryo becomes constricted olf from the yolk-sac they are brought nearer together, and finally unite to form a single double-walled tube, the folds becoming the muscular walls of the heart, while the mesenchymatous tubes form its endocardium. The heart, thus formed, is situated in the neck region of the embryo, and has communicating with it behind the vitelline veins, while anteriorly it is continued into the aortic trunk. This simjile tubular heart now undergoes a considerable in- crease in length, and, as a I'esult, bends upon itself in an S-shaped manner (Fig. 107), the aortic end being ventral to the venous. The venous end now begins to enlarge, and pouches out into a sac on each side, forming the right and left auricles; and