203 THE ARTICULATIONS. By GEORGE WOOLSEY. THE articulations, or jointt^, are the connections existing between contiguous parts of the recent human skeleton. Softer substances intervene between the ends of the bones, and a fibrous capsule, with or without accessory ligaments, binds them together. The articular surfaces, or ends of the bones, which are expanded in the case of long bones, are coated by a layer of connective tissue, or hyaline, or white fibro-cartilage. When hyaline cartilage is present as articular cartilage, its free surfaces are very smooth, and thus minimize friction, and it serves to dimin- ish jars by its elasticity. It is thickest where the ])ressure is the greatest. The white fibro-cartilage occurs as connecting fibro-cartilage in the discs between the vertebrfe and in the symphysis pubis; as interarticular fibro-cartilage in the plates in the temporo-mandibular and sterno-clavicular joints, and in the menisci in the knee-joint; and as marginal fibro-cartilage in the shoulder and hip-joints, where it deepens the sockets. The interarticular fibro-cartilages partly or com- pletely divide the joint into two halves ; they adjust dissimilar bony surfaces,, increase the motion and security, and act as buffers to break shocks. Connective; tissue exists between contiguous bones of the skull as suture membrane. The ligaments, whicli are the principal objects of study in this section, are strong, inextensil:)le, l)ut })liant bands of white fibrous tissue, continuous with the periosteum of the bones they unite. They occur in the shape of a more or less perfect capsule, usually reinforced where there is the most sti'ain by external accessory bands or ligaments derived from intermuscular septa, modified tendons, or regressed muscles. In joints moving on many axes the entire capsule aud surrounding muscles are nearly uniformly strong ; in those moving on one axis the lateral parts of the capsule are strengthened and designated as lateral ligaments. In some cases ligaments are formed of yellow elastic tissue, as the ligamenta subflava, where the parts united are not in contact. The deep surface of the capsule is lined by the synovial membrane, which extends to, but not over, the articular cartilage. In the shape of folds or fringes it frequently projects into the joint-cavity, especially near the margin of the car- tilage, where, often padded with fat, it fills u]> tlic interstices between the bones. This part of the membrane is highly vascular and liable to become villous and pedunculated, in which case it may cause pain by being pinched between the joint-surfaces. It secretes a thick, glairy fluid called synovia, which lubricates the joint. The synovial cavity sometimes communicates with bursa? and vaginal synovial membranes in the neighborhood of a joint. Embrt/ologicalh/, a joint is formed from the tissue between the adjacent parts of the skeleton. This embryonic tissue may become the fibrous tissue of the suture membrane where the bones are developed in membrane, as in most of the bones of the skull; or it may become the thicker fibro-cartilage of the inter- vertebral discs, symphysis pubis, etc., where the bones are developed in cartilage. A partial synovial membrane may occur in this intervening cartilage. In more movable joints the synovial sac is more extensive, aud the fibro-cartilage is inter-