828 THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. called the ostium ahdominale. The base is festooned by ten to fifteen diverging processes, called fimhrice (" fringes "), which are arranged in two or three con- centric circles. The bases of these are attached, their apices are free, and their edges are cut into numerous secondary fringes. The ovarian foiibria, longer than its fellows, runs from the lower part of the ampulla, to become attached to the superior extremity of the ovary. On its inner surface a gutter, lined by mucous membrane, extends from the ovary to the ostium abdominale. By its outer surface it is in contact with a band of smooth muscular fibres continued from the muscular tunic of the tube. Sometimes the ovarian fimbria is not quite long enough to reach the ovary ; it is then attached through the medium of this mus- cular band, which also carries the terminal portion of the mucous gutter. Internal Conformation.—The canal, as already stated, increases in diameter as it passes outward. Its mucous membrane is thrown into folds, making a system of longitudinal plications, which extend throughout the whole length of the canal. In the interstitial portion and isthmus these folds are simj^le ridges separated by shallow grooves. In the am])ulla they increase in number and volume ; and the larger, extending clear across the canal, may bear on their sides secondary folds. The outer ends of these plications cross the ostium abdominale and are continued on to the inner surface of the fimbrise. Direction.—The Fallopian tubes are freely movable particularly in their outer portion. They are pushed backward by a full bladder, depressed by intestinal folds from above, or pushed forward when the intestines occupy the retro-uterine space. They are alfected, too, by any change of jjosition in the uterus. The direction which they pursue is therefore variable. Usually each tube runs from its inner extremity transversely outward to a point op])Osite the middle of the ovary, a distance of half an inch to one inch.. It then runs upward, also a little backward and outward, in front of the attached border of the ovary, near to and parallel with the pelvic wall. Arrived at the superior extremity of the ovary it bends backward, and, after a short course in this direction, terminates by running inward and downward. It thus forms a sort of bay whose concavity, directed downward and inward, embraces the upper end of the ovary, while the fimbrise lie in contact with the posterior border and mesial surface of the gland. Structure.—The tube has three tunics—serous, muscular, and mucous. The two laminge of the broad ligament furnish the serous covering, and these, as they approach the tube, diverge, leaving along its lower border a narrow uncovered strip. A layer of loose areolar tissue, continuous with the subperitoneal fascia and rich in elastic fibres and blood-vessels, is found beneath the serous coat. The nmscular tunic may be divided into two layers, longitudinal and circular. The former is superficial and continuous internally with the uterine muscle; externally it ends at the origin of the pavilion, except for the band, already mentioned, which accompanies the ovarian fimbria. The circular layer, also continuous with the uterine muscle, is thinnest near the fimbriated extremity, and ends at the ostium abdominale. In the vicinity of the uterus some longitudinal fibres are found within the circular. The mucous coat is continuous with the mucous lining of the uterus. Having no special subnyicosa, it is intimately adherent to the muscular layer. It forms the plications already described, and is lined by a single layer of columnar, ciliated ej^ithelium, in which' the ciliary motion is toward the uterus. Crossing the ostium abdominale the mucous membrane establishes itself on the inner surface of the fimbriae. At the borders of the latter, or on their outer surfaces a little beyond the borders, it merges into the peritoneum. It has no glands. Vessels and Nerves.—Arteries.—The external tubular artery is derived from the ovarian, the internal tubular from tlie uterine. Together these form an arcade, which travels between the layers of the meso-salpinx, and sends branches to the lower borders of the tube. The veins form in the meso-salpinx a plexus parallel to the axis of the tube, and finally empty through the pampiniform plexus into the utero-ovarian veins. The lymphatics, joining with those of the