479 THE VEINS. The Superior Memiieric, Vein accompanies the corresponding artery, lying to the right and in front of it, and returns the blood from the parts supplied by it (the small intestine, csecum, ascending and transverse colon) by branches cor- responding to those of the artery. It passes upward between the layers of the mesentery, and then in front of the tliird part of tlie duodenum and behind the pancreas, where, after receiving the right gastro-epiploi'c vein, it joins the s])lenic vein to form the portal vein. The Inferior MesenteriG Vein returns the blood from the rest of the large intestine (rectum, sigmoid flexure, and descending colon). Commencing in the hemorrhoidal plexus of the lower end of the rectum, where it freely anastomoses SUPRARENAL CAPSULE VERTEBRA | COMMON HEPATJC BILE DUCT ARTERY Fig. 508.—Transverse horizontal section througli tlie foramen of Winslow, showing the relations of the portal vein. (Testut.) with branches of the internal iliac vein, it ])as.ses up and out of the pelvis to the left of the inferior mesenteric artery. Above the origin of the latter it ascends, behind the peritoneum on the left side of the aorta, to the deep surface of the pancreas, where, inclining to the right, it Joins the splenic vein near its termination. The Splenio Vein is a vessel of large size, which passes from left to right below its companion artery, behind the pancreas. It commences by the union of several large branches from the hilum of the spleen, and ends, after crossing iu'front of the aorta, by joining the superior mesenteric vein, nearly at a right angle, to form the portal vein. It receives branches corresponding to those of the artery, and, in addition, the inferior mesenteric vein. The Pyloric Vein is a small vessel which runs along the small curvature of the stomach from left to right in company with the (superior) pyloric artery. It opens into the lower part of the vena portse. The Coronary or Gastric Vein is a larger vessel, which accompanies the artery of the same name along the small curvature of the stomach from right to left. Near the cardiac orifice of the stomach it receives oesophageal branches and turns to the right across the spine, to end in the portal vein a little above the foregoing. f The Veins of the Pelvis. The Internal Iliac Veins are short trunks without valves, which lie behind and to the inner side of the internal iliac arteries. They extend from the upper part of the great sacro-sciatic foramina to the sacro-iliac articulations, where they join the external iliac to form the common iliac veins. Each is formed by the union of veins corresponding to the branches of the internal iliac artery, excepting the ilio-lumbar vein, which opens into tlie common iliac vein, and the foetal umbilical veins, which connect with the left branch of the portal vein. The Tributaries correspond to the branches of the artery, except that the pudic vein does not begin in the dorsal vein of the penis, but in the veins of the corpus cavernosum. The visceral veins are characterized by their large size, the number of their valves, and their frequent anastomoses, by which several connected plexuses are formecl—i. e., prostatic, vesical, vaginal, uterine, and hemorrhoidal.