THE WALLS OF THE CEBEBRO-SPLNAL AXIS. 505 The'general ventricular cavity is moderately filled with a serous fluid, the cerebro-spinal, which mingles with the fluid occupying the serous space outside of the encephalic mass through a small hole, the foramen of llagencUe (metapore), in the roof of the fourth ventricle. To illustrate the complexity and also the continuity of this cavity of the encephalon, imagine the shortest course which a small, aquatic insect must pur- sue in going from the apex of the middle horn of the lateral ventricle to the canal of the spinal cord, without leaving the cavity. First it would swim outward, and then successively backward, upward, inward, and for- ward, following the peculiar curves of the middle horn, before it could reach the body, the main hall, of the lateral ventricle. It would then pass forward and upward, for the floor of the ven- tricle slopes down from its front end. At the median side of the fore part of the ventricle, just at the beginning of the anterior horn, the little creature would work its way through the porta, a brief i)assage-way, which would let the traveller down into the third ven- tricle. Coursing backward through this deep crevice to its hind end, a narrow channel, the aqueduct, would be entered and traversed in a direction backward -n. ^ <^ , . • , -, , . p , . Fig. 540.—Cast of general ventricular cavity— and downward. Jlimerging irom this view from above. (Xestut.) contracted passage, it would find itself in the shallow fourth ventricle, the long axis of M'hich is somewhat backward, but more downward. Going from one end of this chamber to the other, it would arrive finally in the central canal of the spinal coi'd. Fig. 547.—Cast of left lateral and third ventricles, from left side. (Testut.) THE WALLS OF THE CEREBRO-SPINAL AXIS. Having now obtained an adequate idea of the cavity of the cerebro-spinal axis we proceed to study the my?//.*? which enclose this space. As has been said, they are composed of nervous tissue, which is lined with endyma and clothed with pia. The mass thus constituted may be conveniently considered in sections. Thus, we will take successively the walls of the lateral ventricles, of the third ventricle, of the aqueduct, of the fourth ventricle, and of the central canal of the spinal cord (Fig. 548). The several sections of the encephalon in their developed condition are commonly known by names other than those given to the primary vesicles, with a single exception. The walls of each lateral ventricle constitute a