THE HIP-BONE. 147 pectineal eminence, where the ilium and os pubis meet, is seen the inferior iliac noieh. This is situated in front of, and above, the acetabulum, and is traversed by the ilio-psoas muscle. The crest ends behind in the posterior superior spine, affording ligamentous attachment, separated by a slight notch from the posterior inferior spine, at the Fig. 166.~The right hip-bone, outer surface. (Testut.) lowest and hindermost point of the auricular articular surface. Below the spines is the great sofvo-.S'c/af/c (" sacro-ischiatic ") ?io^c/i, bounded above by the ilium, below and in front by the dorsal border of the ischium. The external surface, or clorsvm, flat or convex in front and behind, concave in the middle, is marked by the superior, middle, and inferior gluteal lines, which form the lower limit of the origin of the glutei maximus, medius, and minimus respectively. The superior g/uieal line begins at the crest about 2 inches in front of its dorsal end, and curves downward to the hind part of the great sciatic notch. To the lower part of the space behind it the pyriformis is often attached. The middle gluteal line curves backward and downward from the crest, 1 inch behind its anterior end, to the u])per border of the great sciatic notch. The inferior gluteal line passes backward from just above the anterior inferior spine to the front of the great sciatic notch. Between the inferior gluteal line and the margin of the acetabulum, and a little behind the anterior inferior spine, is a rough surface for the reflected tendon of the rectus femoris. On the internal surface of the iliiuii is seen in front a smooth, concave, triangu- lar area, the iliac fossa, giving origin to the iliacus muscle, and Ijehind a smaller, uneven surface. The latter is divided into an inferior auricular (ear-shaped) cartilage-covered surface for articulation with the sacrum, and a su])erior rough surface for the attachment of the posterior sacro-iliac ligaments below and the erector spinse above. The iliac fossa is limited below by the ilio-pectiueal (" ilio- pubal") line, which forms the brim of the true pelvis, and extends between the auricular surface and the spine of the os pul>is. Below the auricular surface and the dorsal end of the ilio-pectineal line is a small, smooth area of the ilium, which forms a small part of the wall of the true pelvis.