THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. By F. H. GERRISH. IN the lowest forms of animal life there is no differentiation of organs, each part of the body being equally capable of performing every kind of work within the sphere of the creature's possibilities. The little animal called amoeba furnishes a good illustration of this fact. The whole creature may be regarded as a minute mass of living protoplasm. A particle of nutritious material coming in contact with the sensitive surface of an amoeba is seized by little jjrotrusions which are thrust out around it, and is presently enclosed completely by the pro- longations. In the containing cavity thus formed the particle is held until the animal has absorbed all of the food which it can get from this source. Then the little projections which have enwrapped the nutrient material are withdrawn, the cavity which they formed is thus obliterated, and the residue of the bit of pabu- lum is released. Soon, it may be, the very portion of the amoeba, which Avas just noAV a recess, becomes a protrusion, fastens to some fixed object, and by its contractile power pulls the bulk of the animal up to the point of attachment, itself becoming efPaced in the process. Thus, it will be seen that a single ]iortion of the creature's body can serve as an organ of sen.sation, an organ of ])rehension, an organ of absorption, and an organ of locomotion : feeling, grasping, ab.stract- ing, moving from place to place are all in turn shown to be capabilities of one small part, which in no way differs from every other part. Each of these organs w'as merely temporary : the impact-perceiving surface was transformed into seiz- ing hands ; these presently became a stomach ; this soon turned into a leg ; and the leg disappeared by flattening itself out into a sensitive surface, capable of appreciating tlie touch of a particle brought in contact Avith it. Differentiation of Organs.—In animals a little higher in the scale of being a depression is seen at some point of the surface, forming a permanent recess, iuto Avhich minute bits of pabulum are received and de- prived of their nourishing material, after wliich pro- cess the unserviceable remnants are expelled by the door Avhich gaA'e them admission (Fig. 743). A step farther up Ave find the receptacle deeper, more capaci- ous, and capable of effecting such changes in the food introduced into it as will make a larger proportion available for absorption into the system. In the next grade beyond this, the cavity becomes so long as nearly to reach the surface opposite to that at which its opening is located. One slight additional exten- sion in the direction of prcA'ious growth results in perforation of the tissues intervening between the ca\'ity and the surface; and, thus, the deep depres- sion is con\^erted into a tube, reaching from one end of the animal to the other, and permitting the expul- sion of the unused portion of the food by an opening- other than that by which it Avas introduced. This tube, short and simple, is the type upon Avhieh is constructed every ali- mentary canal, however complicated. Elaboration of this structure is accom- 695 Fig. 743.—Diagram to illustrate the gradual development of the alimentary tube. (Testut.)