383 THE ARTERIES. forates the interosseous membrane, and passes to the anterior surface of the lenj', and thence down to the bend of the ankle, where it changes its name to dorsalis pedis. In its course in tlie leg it gives off as branches the recihrrent tibial, mus- cular, internal malleolar, and external malleolar arteries. The dorsalis pedis extends from the bend of the ankle to the back part of the first interosseous space, where it divides into the dorsalis hcdlucis and communicating. It gives oflP as branches the tarsal, the metatarscd, and the interosseous, which supply the dor- sum of the foot and toes, and the communicating, which anastomoses with the external plantar, thus completing the plantar arch. Tlie posterior tihicd passes down the back of the leg to the concavity between the heel and inner ankle, where it divides into the internal and external pjlantetr arteries. In its course it gives off as branches the peroneal, anterior peroneal, muscular, nutrient, communicating, and internal calcanean arteries, which as a group supply the back of the leg and heel. The internal plantar begins at the point of division of the posterior til)iai, and runs forward along the inner side of the great toe, whicli it supplies. The external plantar passes forward in the sole of the foot, and forms by anastomosing with the communicating branch of the dorsalis pedis, the plantar arch, which gives off posterior perforating, digitcd, and anterior perforeding branches, and supplies the sole of the foot and the toes. The student is strongly advised to draw a rough longitudinal sketch of the entire arterial system following the syllabus given above. This sketch should show the origin, course, termination, and branches of each vessel; as later the vessels are studied in detail, sketches of special portions of the arterial system, as the circle of Willis, the vessels in the triangles of the neck, the axillary space, Scarpa's triangle, the popliteal space, etc., should be made ; also sketches of cross- sections of the trunk, neck, and upper and lower extremities at different levels, showing the position of the vessels, and their relation to surrounding structure. Such a method will materially aid the student in the study of the arteries in the dissecting-room and on the living model. THE AORTA. The aorta is the main trunk of the systemic system. It begins at the left ven- tricle and terminates on the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra by dividing into the common iliacs. It is divided anatomically into three portions, the arch, the thoracic aorta, and the abdominal aorta. The arch of the aorta extends from the left ventricle to the lower border of the body of the fifth thoracic vertebra ; the thoracic aorta from this point to the aortic oj^ening in the diaphragm ; the ahdrjmi- nal aorta from the aortic opening in the diaphragm to the termination of the ves- sel on the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra. The aorta is divided by some anatomists into an ascending aorta, an arch, and a descending aorta, the ascend- ing aorta corresponding to the ascending portion of the arch in the description which will be followed here, the arch corresponding to the transverse portion of the arch, and the descending aorta beginning at the lower border of the fourth dorsal vertebra, and, therefore, including the descending portion of the arch of the division here adopted. THE ARCH OF THE AORTA. The arch (Fig. 440) is divided into three portions : an ascending, a transverse, and a descending portion. The Ascending Portion of the Arch.— Origin : the left ventricle opposite the lower border of the third costal cartilage and Iiehind the sternum. Course, upward and to the right to the Ujiper border of second costal cartilage. Termincdion : here the ascending portion bends backward and to the left, and becomes the transverse portion of the arch.