465 THE VEINS. jugular veins. Each sinus passes at first nearly horizontally outward, with a slight convexity upwai'd, in the groove on the occipital bone and the dorso-infe- rior angle of the parietal bone, along the attachment of the tentorium cerebelli. Thence it curves downward and inward in the groove on the inner surface of the mastoid, leaving the tentorium after receiving the superior petrosal sinus (and, when present, the petro-squamous sinus). Finally it curves forward onto the jugular process of the occipital bone to the jugular foramen. That part of the sinus on the mastoid bone and the jugular process of the occijjital is called the sigmoid sinus, from its S-shaped course. This part is semieylindrical in shape, communicates with the occipital sinus through the marginal sinus, and with the occipital and vertebral veins through the mastoid and posterior condylar foramina. The lateral sinus receives veins from the temporal lobe of the brain, from the upper and lower surfaces of the cerebellum, and from the medulla, pons, and diploe. The right lateral sinus is considerably larger than the left, except in cases where the superior longitudinal sinus is continued into the left sinus. The position of the lateral sinus may be represented on the exterior of the skull by a line curved slightly upward from the external occipital protuberance to SUPERrOR LONGITU- DINAL SINUS Fig. 497.—Sinuses of the dura at the base of the cranium. (Testut.) the base of the mastoid jjrocess, and thence its sigmoid portion bends downward and inward toward tlie tip of the process, making a forward bend or knee which extends to within half an inch or less of the upper part of the bony external auditory meatus. Tlie Occipital Sinus ascends mesially, along the line of attachment of the falx cerebelli to the occipital bone, from the foramen magnum in front to the torcular behind. Its tributaries pass around one or both sides of the foramen magnum, as marginal sinuses, one or both of which communicate with the lower end of the