3IE3IBBANES. 65 Fig. 65.—Arrangement of nerve-cells and nerve-fibres in a ganglion. (Dalton.) ganglia. These fibres branch witliin the nerve-centi'e, and send their ultimate twigs among the cells, but do not unite witli them. Ganglia (" knots") are bunches of various sizes occurring in the course of nerves. They are made up of nerve-cells and their coverings, massed upon and between the fibres of nerves (Fig. 65). Each cell of a ganglion has one or more axis-cyl- inder processes, which are prolonged into nerve-fibres. The ganglion is clothed with areolar tissue, which sends trabeculse through it in every direction. Before coming to their peri])lK'ral divis- ion many medullated nerves lose their white substance ; bat others retain it during several stages of branching, and in these last the division takes place at nodes. After the disa])pearance of the medullary sheath the jirimitive sheath continues for a variable distance. Afferent (sensory) nerves have various peripheral terminations. Some of them end in cells, others in special organs, as tactile corpuscles, end-bulbs, and Pacinian bodies. These will be described in the cha])ter devoted to the organs of the senses. Certain aflPerent nerves end ])eripherally by the final separation of the axis-cylinder into its component fibrils, wliicli run between the tissue-elements, and generally either end tliere or else penetrate the cells. The sensory nerve- endings in tendons are often suggestive of the ending of motor nerves of volun- tary muscle, to be described presently. Close to the muscle proper a medullated fibre passes into the tendon, divides rei>eatedly, and the fil- aments of the axis-cylinder penetrate widely into the tendon. Efferent nerves have ditferent endings ac- cording to the variety of nuiscle to which they are distributed. In the case of the jilain mus- cular tissue the fibrilhe of the nerve are brouglit close to the muscle-cells, after the nerve has formed a plexus in wliich ganglion-cells often occur. In cardiac muscle the nervous filaments come from a long-meshed plexus, and are ap- plied to the contractile fibres. Finally, in stri- ated muscle, after the formation of a close plexus, the nerve loses its white sheath, the axis-cylinder enters the muscle-fil)re, and just beneath the sarcolemma splits up into its filjril- Ise, which spread out in a thin mass of granular material in which nuclei are embedded. This is the motorial end-plate (Fig. 66) Fig. 66.—Motorial end-plate, the termi- nation of a nerve in a fibre of cross-striped muscle. (Testut.) MEMBRANES. In its widest meaning the word " membrane " is used to designate any thin expansion of tissue, either simple or compound. Thus, we speak of the perios- teum, the covering of bone, as a fibrous membrane ; we call the layer of cells beneath the epitlielium of free surfaces the basement membrane; and a structure composed largely of blood-vessels may be known as a vascular mcmbi'ane. But in a restricted, although the commonest, sense the word is applied to a broad, sheet-like organ, with a free (unattached) surface, furnishing the covering of a 5