THE ARTERIES. 411 articulation, uufriciit to the clavicle, snpra-acromial to the tissues over the aci'o- miou, and Nubxcdpular to the subscapularis muscle. The Transversalis Colli Artery passes outward and backward in front of the scaleni muscles and the brachial plexus to the trapezius muscle ; here it divides into two branches, the superiicial cervical and the postei'ior scapular. The superficial cervical passes behind the trapezius muscle upward, and supplies the trapezius, levator scapulfe, and splenius. The posterior scapular passes down- ward along the vertebral l)order of scajnila to its inferior angle. In its course it is covered by the rhomboid muscles, and anastomoses with the scapular arteries— suprascapular, dorsal scapular, and subscapular. Varieties.—The posterior scapular is very often a separate branch of the third portion of the subclavian. Surgical Anatomy.—The presence of the posterior scapular as a branch from the third portion of the subclavian is to be borne in mind in ligating that vessel : and in amputation of the entire upper extremity, the operator should know that, after ligation of the subclavian, all bleeding of consequence is controlled, except that from the posterior scapular, when it is a branch from the third portion of the subclavian, which may give rise to considerable hemorrhage, when the scapula is removed, and I'equires ligation. The Superior Intercostal Artery. This vessel arises from the posterior surface of the subclavian, either from its first or second portion. The artery passes backward and is divided into two branches. One, the deep cervical, passes upward, deeply situated behind the transverse processes, and anastomoses with the princeps cervieis branch of the occipital. The other branch passes downward in front of the neck of the first rib to the first intercostal s])ace, which it supplies, and gives off also a branch to the second intercostal space. Variations.—The superior intercostal is sometimes a branch of the thyroid axis. The deep cervical is sometimes a branch from the subclavian, sometimes from the posterior scapular. THE TRIANGLES OF THE NECK. The quadrilateral surface of the neck, Avhich is bounded below by the clavicle, above by the inferior border of the lower jaw and a line drawn from the angle of the jaw to the mastoid process, behind by the anterior border of the trapezius muscle, and in front by the median line of the neck, is divided by the sterno- cleido-mastoid muscle into two triangles, called the anterior and posterior triangles of the neck. These two triangles are subdivided, the posterior into two, the occipital, and the subclavian, by the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid ; the ante- rior into three by the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid, and the two bellies of the digastric. These are called the inferior carotid, the superior carotid, and the suh- maxillary triangles. These triangles are important anatomical regions and must be carefully studied. The student is advised to draw a sketch of tliese triangles, and, at this stage of his study, to add the arteries which are found in them ; later, as the subjects of the veins, lymphatics, and nerves have been mastered, these structures should be added to the sketch, and the topographical anatomy completed. The occipital triangle has but one vessel of large size, the transversalis colli. The suhclavian triangle contains the subclavian and the origin of its l)ranches. The inferior carotid triangle contains the common carotid, the inferior thyroid, and the vertebral. The superior carotid triangle contains the common carotid, the internal and external carotids, and the first portions of all the branches of the external carotid, except the terminal branches, the temporal and internal maxillary, and usually the posterior auricular. The snhmaxillari/ triangle contains the upper portion of the external carotid with its branches—the temporal, internal