THE ULNA. 137 sents just above the centre a rough V-shaped impression for the deltoid insertion, immediately below which the lamcido-spiral groove is seen winding downward and forward after grooving the outer border. The hind or lower portion of this groove is traversed by the musculo-spiral nerve and the superior profunda ves- sels, while its upper part, together with the lower half of the external and internal surfaces and of the ventral border, gives origin to the brachialis muscle. The dorsal surface, unequally divided by the musculo-spiral groove, attaches above the latter the external head of the triceps, and below it the internal head. The hicer extremity is transversely elongated, flattened from before backward, and curved forward. From within outward notice the following parts : The prominent internal condyle is flattened and inclined slightly backward, forming a shallow groove behind, traversed by the ulnar nerve. From the front of its extremity arise the pronator radii teres and the common tendon of the superficial flexor muscles in the forearm, below which the internal lateral ligament is attached. The articular surface is divided by a ridge (which corresponds to the interval between the radius and ulna) into a large internal and a smaller external part. The internal part, or trochlea (" pulley "), is a pulley-like surface, grooved in the middle, Avhich articulates with the great sigmoid cavity of the ulna. It is obliquely placed, so that it ascends upward and outward behind, and its inner margin descends much lower than its outer. It is broader behind than in front, and its surface forms three-fourths or more of a circle. Above it notice the large olecranon fossa, behind and the smaller coronoid fossa in front, receiving, respect- ively, the olecranon process in extension and the coronoid process in flexion of the forearm. The external part, the capitellum (" little head "), or radial head, is a small rounded surface, which, with the groove internal to it, articulates with the head of the radius. It looks forward, and is confined to the ventral and a ^jart of the inferior surface. Above it in front is a slight depression for the edge of the head of the radius in complete flexion of the elbow. The external condyle, on the same horizontal plane with, but less prominent than, the internal, attaches inferiorly the common tendon of the forearm extensor muscles, the external lateral ligament, and, more dorsally and internally, the anconeus muscle. In its natural position the humerus is rotated inward so much that the internal condyle, which is in line with the head above, looks more backward than inward. The principal or longest axes of the ujiper and lower extremities make an angle of torsion of 30° with one another, which represents the amount of twisting of the bone. The humerus averages 13 inches in length in the male and 12 inches in the female. The condyles alone are subcutaneous, and are important as land- marks. Varieties.—The thin plate of bone between the olecranon and coronoid fossae is sometimes perforated, forming the supratrochlear foramen. A small hook-like supracondylar process, connected by a fibrous band with the internal condyle about 2 inches below, is occasionally found. It represents a similar bony fora- men in many animals, and, like it, ti-ansmits through the arch the median nerve and often the brachial artery or a large branch of it. Ossificcdion occurs from a primary centre in the shaft and six or seven second- ary centres in the extremities. In the upper extremity centres appear in the head, great tuberosity, and sometimes in the small tuberosity, which, after fusing together, join the shaft about the twentieth year. In the lower extremity centres appear in the trochlea, capitellum, and outer and inner condyles, the three former of Avhich, after coalescing, unite with the shaft in the seventeenth year, the inner condyle somewhat later. THE ULNA. The ulna ("elbow-bone") (Figs. 161, 162), the inner bone of the forearm, is parallel with, but longer than, the radius by nearly the length of the olecranon. It is inclined downward and outward from the humerus, so that the great tuber-