THE OCCIPITAL BONE. 167 inferior angles, and are uneven and less deeply serrated. Between the lateral angles and the jugular processes they articulate with the mastoid portions of the temporals in the occqjito-mastoid suture. The small rough extremity of each jugular process articulates with the jugular facet of the petrous portion of the temporal bone by synchondrosis initil about the twenty-fifth year, when the union becomes osseous. In front of the jugidar process is the smooth jugular notch (see above). Between this notch and the antero-infcrior angle the borders are rough for articulation with the petrous portion of the temporal ))one. A somewhat octagonal form is not infrequently presented by this bone, due to the projection of the jugular processes and the middle of the superior borders. The foramen magnum is oval in shape, with the long axis directed from before backward. It is encroached upon laterally in its fore part by the condyles, and transmits the upper end of the spinal c(jrd with its membranes and accompany- ing structures. From the condyles, thick ridges of bone, which strengthen the skull and transmit its weight to the condyles, pass in four directions—viz., for- PHOCESS CH ANTERIOR FORAMEN Fig. 186.—The occipital bone, viewed from above. (Spalteholz.) ward into the basilar process, laterally into the jugular processes, backward around the foramen, and thence upward as the occipital crest, etc. Development.—The basilar and condylar portions ossify each from a single centre. The squamous portion has four centres in two laterally disposed pair.-^— a pair above in the interparietal porticm, and a pair below in the supraoccijiital portion. These two pairs usually unite, but may remain separate through life, forming an interparietal bone, as in lower vertebrates ; or, more commonly, two lateral fissures remain, a condition usually found at birth. The condylar portions join the squamous in lines extending outward from the posterior margin of the foramen magnum, and they join the basilar portion in lines passing through the anterior extremities of the condyles. The centres for the interparietal portion are deposited in membranes, those for the rest of the bone in cartilage. Varieties.—There is sometimes seen a groove for the occipital sinus along the internal occipital crest. The jugular notch is often found partly subdivided by a small intrajuf/ular 'process, and it is frequently separated from the groove for the sinus by a thin transverse ridge. A projection sometimes found beneath the jugular process, the paramastoid process of many mammals, may rarely be so long as to meet the transverse process of the atlas. Frequently the anterior con-