637 EXTERNAL POPLITEAL OR PERONEAL NERVE. The Musculocutaneous Nerve (4. 5. 1., 1. s.) (Figs. 674, 683, 684, 685, 686) descends obliquely beneath the peronei muscles, and between them and the exten- sor longus digitorum, supplies muscular branches to the peroneus longus and brevis, and pierces the deep fascia near the middle line of the leg near its lower fourth. It then divides into two branches, internal and external, which descend in the superficial fascia to the dorsum of the foot, supplying filaments to the skin on the front of the leg, as they proceed downward. The internal branch sends a branch to the inner side of the great toe, com- municating with the long saphenous nerve, a second branch to join the anterior tibial nerve as it divides into collaterals to the contiguous side of the first and second toes, and a third branch to supply collaterals to the second and third toes. The external branch supplies digital nerves to the contiguous sides of the third and fourth, and fourth and fifth toes, and com- municates with the short saphe- nous nerve. It will thus be seen that the short saphenous nerve supplies the outer side of the little toe, the anterior tibial supplies the contiguous surfaces of the first and second toes, and the mus- culocutaneous nerve supplies all the rest of the dorsum t>f the foot; the long saphenous nerve stopping short at the ball of the great toe. The Anterior Tibial Nerve (4. 5. 1., 1. s.) (Figs. 674, 683, 684, 685, 686) descends obliquely through the peroneus longus and extensor longus digitorum to lie on the interosseous membrane and anterior tibial artery. It reaches the side of that vessel about the junction of the upper and second fourths, descends a short distance on its outer side, and then in front of it, to be again placed on the outer side (occasionally inner side) of the vessel beneath the anterior an- nular ligament. Here it divides into an internal and an external branch. Braxohes.—(rt) Muscular branches supply the tibialis anterior, extensor longus digitorum, extensor proprius hallucis, and peroneus tertius. {b) An articular filament supplies the ankle-joint. (c) The external branch crosses outward under the extensor brevis digitorum, becomes enlarged like the posterior interosseous in the hand, and breaks up into branches, which supply the extensor brevis digitorum and the tarsal joints. _ {(]) The internal branch appears to be the direct continuation of the nerve, as it accompanies the dorsalis pedis artery, lying usually on its outer, sometimes on its inner side. Opposite the tarso-metatarsal joint it communicates with the rausculo-cutaneous, and divides into branches to ithe outer side of the great, and inner side of the second, toe.