760 THE ORGANS OF BESPIBATION. is very thin, transparent, and composed of fibrous tissue, the yellow variety being conspicuous, and forming a delicate network. A few smooth muscular fibres are Fig. 818.—Diagram of a lobule of the lung. A bronchiole is seen dividing into two branches, one of which runs upward and ends in the lobule. In the lobule are four groups of infundibula. At the left are two infun- dibula the alveoli of which present their outer surfaces. Next are three infundibula in vertical section, the alveoli of each opening into the common passageway. Upon the ultimate bronchiole of this group are alveoli. In the next group the first infuudibulum shows a pulmonary arteriole surrounding the opening of each alveo- lus, and the second gives the same with the addition of the close capillary network in the wall of each alveolus. The same arrangement of vessels is seen in the alveolus upon the bronchiole of this group. Around the fourth group is a deep deposit of pigment, such as occurs in old age, and in the lungs of those who inhale coal- dust and the like. On the bronchiole lies a branch of the pulmonary artery (blue), bringing blood to the infundibula for aeration. It also supplies nourishing blood to the tubes and other structures within the lobule. Beginning between the infundibula are the radicles of the pulmonary vein (red), a root of which lies upon the bronchiole. The bronchial artery is shown as a small vessel bringing nutrient blood to the bronchiole (outside of the lobule), the artery and vein, and all of the structures between and around the lobule. No attempt is made to show the sustentacular tissue which occupies the spaces within and around the lobule. (F. H. G.) found between the air-vesicles. Next to this wall is a dense network of capil- laries, the spaces between which are not as wide as the vessels themselves. The lining of an infundibulum and its air-vesicles is a delicate epithelium, which is directly continuous with that of the mucosa of the tubes. It is chiefly