29 THE 8YSTE3IS OF ORGANS AND THEIB FUNCTIONS. the " ring finger" {digitus annularis, from annus, " a ring") ; and the fifth (digitus quintus) is the " little finger " {digitus mimmus, literally " the least finger "). Each digit has three segments, except the thnmb, which has but two. The lower limb is the homologue of the upper—that is, it is built on substan- tially the same structural plan.^ It has four segments : hij), thigh, leg, and foot, which correspond respectively to shoulder, arm, forearm, and hand. Between hip and thigh is the hip-joint; between thigh and leg, the knee-joint; and between leg and foot, the ankle-joint. The " hip," or haunch {coxa), is so firmly united to the back-bone that it serves as a portion of the wall of the abdomen, the greater cavity of the trunk. Behind the liip and immediately below the loin is a large mass of muscle and fat, the "buttock" {natis). The "thigh" extends from the hip to the leg, and is technically called/t'Hutr, which name is also applied to the single bone that forms its framework. The prominence in front at its lower end is the " knee " (genu), and the space opposite the knee on the posterior aspect is the " ham " (poples). The mistake of calling the buttocks the hams is often made, but has no justification. From knee-joint to ankle-joint is the "leg" (crus). Its rear bulge is the "calf" (sura^ or gasfroenemia, literally "the belly of the leg "), and the sharp vertical ridge in front is the " shin." At the lower end of the leg are two bony prominences, the " inner ankle " {malleolus internus) and the " outer ankle " {nudlcolus externus). Malleolus means " a little hammer." The "foot" {pes), like its homologue the hand, is divided into three parts—a hindmost, the tarsus, a middle, the metatarsus, and a foremost or distal, the "digits" (digiti). The "instep" of popular nomenclature has no equivalent in anatomical terminology, as it includes parts of both tarsus and metatarsus; and, on the other hand, there are no vernacular words corresponding to tarsus and metatarsus. The part of the tarsus which projects to the rear is the heel {ccdx); the top of the foot is its " back " {dorsum pedis) ; and the entire under surface is the "sole" (plcmta). The five digits are designated numerically, like their homologues in the hand, the count beginning, however, not at the outer end of the series, but at the inner—that nearer the median line of the body. Thus, the "toes" or digits of the foot {digitipedis) are first, second, third, fourth, and fifth {primus, secundus, tertius, quartus, and quintus), respectively. But the first and last have other names also, the one being commonly called the " great toe" {pollex pjedis, "the thumb of the foot," or hallux); and the other the "little toe" {digitus minimus pedis, literally " the smallest digit of the foot"). In giving the Latin names for the toes it is rarely necessary to employ pedis (" of the foot") to distinguish those of the lower extremity, as the context indicates which limb is concerned; and it is never essential to say mamts (" of the hand"), as this is understood unless the contrary is obvious. THE SYSTEMS OF ORGANS AND THEIR FUNCTIONS. In studying anatomy the thoughtful learner is almost certain to conclude that he needs to know a great deal about every other part in order to comprehend fully the one which he has in hand. No organ, however simple, is independent: every one is so related to others, perhaps to many others, that they are absolutely essential to its life. In the same way it is true that some knowledge of many is necessary to the complete, or even sufficient, understanding of a single one. This fact constitutes a chief obstacle in the path of the anatomical student; but it may be diminished very considerably, and its residue rendered less discour- aging, by his having presented to his mind at the beginning of his course a con- ' The difference between homology and analogy must be borne in mind. Homolog;/ relates to similarity of structure, analogy to likeness of function. The two do not always go together. For example, the upper limb of a man and that of a bird are homologous, because they are constructed on the same plan ; but they are not analogous, because the one is used for prehension (grasping), and the other for locomotion (flying). The organization in the two cases is strikingly similar ; the func- tion is radically different. But compare the wing of a bird with that of a butterfly ; both are devoted to the same use—namely, flying; but they are essentially different in structural plan, as can be seen on the most cursory inspection. Therefore they are analogous, but not homologous.