THE LIVER. 739 lobule, and of these there is a multitude, packed together so closely that only enough room is left between them to permit the passage of the minute vessels and nerves. The hepatic cells are the workmen of the factory. To them the materials out of which they are to make bile are brought in the blood of the portal vein. Unlike veins generally, the portal divides into a vast number of branches, and a network of these encloses the lobule. From these embracing vessels, which are veiy minute, capillaries are sent inward between the cells of the lol)ule in such abundance that each cell is surrounded by them, and is thus plentifully supplied with blood containing the raw materials which the cell is capable of working over into a new product, the bile. The cells having abstracted the stuff" which they require in their manufacturing processes, the blood passes on, and, at the centre of the lobule, to which point all of the capillaries converge, it entei-s a vein which runs perpendicularly to the course of the peripheral vessels, and carries the blood away from the lobule. Beginnings of the Bile-ducts.—The surfaces of the cells are grooved in such a manner that the gutters on the adjacent surfaces of two cells fit together and make a cylindrical channel; and into this passage-way, which may be regarded as a drain-pipe, the bile is poured as soon as it is formed by the cell. These channels form a network among the cells throughout the lobule, as intricate as the plexus of blood-vessels ; and from this network the bile is discharged into ducts, which ramify abundantly upon the surface of the lobule. The Supply of Nutrient Blood.—When we remember that the blood furnished to the lobule by the portal vein is venous, we perceive that, however rich it may be in the materials necessary for the making of bile, it is not adapted to the nourishing of the lobule ; it does not contain the substances needed for the repair of the factory or the feeding of the operatives. These nutritious and restorative matters are furnished by a separate vessel, the hepatic artery, which sends to each lobule branches which course over its surface and give off capillaries inward between the cells ; and thus another plexus is formed in the lobule. There is not, how- ever, a separate vein devoted to the task of removing from the lobule the blood introduced by the branches of the hepatic artery : its capillaries enter the plexus of portal-vein capillaries near the centre of the lobule, and the hepatic-artery blood mingles with the venous, flowing out with it through the central, per- pendicular vein. Lymphatics.—Besides the materials of various kinds which are carried away from the bile-factory by the channels already mentioned, there are certain uncon- sumed nutritious substances and certain waste products, which are removed by lymphatic vessels. These originate in irregular spaces in the lobule, form a net- work around it, and their current is in the direction of the stream of outflowing bile, that is, toward the portal at which the blood is introduced into the liver. Finally, there are nerveshy which a regulation of the different processes is effected and harmony maintained among them. Arrangement of the Vessels. As previously remarked, the lol^ule is physiologically a minute liver—it is the hepatic unit; and the liver itself is merely an enormous aggregation of count- less lobules, packed together as solidly as is consistent with the presence of the numerous tubes required for its nutrition and the performance of its work. But this intimate association of a multitude of lobules necessitates some modification of the description which has been given of a single one. The branches of the portal vein and of the hepatic artery, and the radicles of the bile-ducts and lymphatics, all of which have been described as ramifying upon the outside of the lol)ule, are seen, when the lobules are packed together, to be between the lobules ; for the close approximation of a number of lol)ules brings the networks of vessels on the surface of each in contact with the similar plexuses on the sur- faces of all of its immediate neighbors. Thus, one set of vessels can be made to