THE KNEE-JOINT. 233 socket, thus securing strength for these, the most important movements. Exten- sion is limited by the strong ilio-femoral band, which helps to maintain the erect position without muscular exertion by preventing over-extension in standing, in which position the centre of gravity descends behind the centre of the joint. Flexion takes place tlu'ough about 140°, imtil checked by the contact of the thigh and abdomen if the knee is flexed; otherwise, it is checked at about 90° by Fig. 251.—Hip-joint, front view. The capsular ligament has been largely removed. (Testut.) the hamstring muscles. In all the other movements the articular portion of the head projects beyond the cotyloid rim on the side opposite to that toward which the movement takes place. Abduction is limited by the pubo-femoral band, adduction by the outer part of the ilio-femoral band and the upper part of the capsule. Rotation takes place on a vertical axis passing from the head aliove to the lower extremity of the femur below. (This axis is not coincident with that of the shaft.) Inward rotation is limited by the ischio-feraoral baud, outward rotation by the ilio-femoral band (its inner part during extension, its outer during flexion). The ligamentum teres is put on the stretch in flexion with abduction or outward rotation, or both, but it is too weak to be of use in resisting these movements or in strengthening the joint. 2. The Knee-joint (Figs. 252-255). This, the largest joint in the body, is a modified hinge-joint, whose bony articu- lar surfaces (the condyles and trochlear surface of the femur, the tuberosities of the tibia and the patella) are not adapted to one another except by means of soft parts and the interj)osed fibro-cartilages. The knee is very superficial, and is strong only by reason of the number and strength of the ligaments and surrounding tendons and muscles, which, as well as the width of the bony surfaces, resist dislocation in spite of the leverage of the longest two bones in the body. It represents two morphologically distinct joints, the patello-femoral and the tibio- femoral, the latter also composed of two laterally placed joints, the median division between which is represented by the crucial and mucous ligaments. The synovial