THE BONES. 146 The five of the first row are the longest, and are slightly curved longitudinally. The thicker upper end, or base, has a transversely elongated, concave articular facet (^glenoid cavity), and the distal end, flattened from before backward, has a facet prolonged onto the palmar aspect, and divided into two condyles by a groove. The four of the second roin, that of the thumb being wanting, are smaller, but similar, except that the proximal articular facet has a slight median ridge and two latei-al depressions to fit the condyles of the first row. The five terminal or ungual (from tmguis, "a nail") phalanges have proximal extremities like those of the second row, with the addition of a palmar depression for the long flexor tendons. The shaft tapers to the flattened, expanded, horseshoe- shaped distal extremity, of which the smooth dorsal surface supports the nail, and the rough palmar surface the pulp of the finger. Taken together, the phalanges of the middle finger are the longest, and next those of the ring, index, little finger, and thumb, in the order named. THE BONES OF THE LOWER LIMB. The bony pelvis includes, besides the sacrum and coccyx, already described, the two hip-bones or the pelvic girdle. The skeleton of the lower limb comprises, besides the hip-bones, the femur in the thigh, the tibia and fibula in the leg, and the tarsal, metatarsal, and phalangeal bones in the foot. A large sesamoid bone, the patella, is found at the knee. THE HIP-BONE. The hip-hone, or os innoininrdum ("unnamed bone") (Figs. 166, 167), is irregular in form and shaped somewhat like the blade of a screw-propeller. It is narrowed in the middle, where the acetahulum, or socket for the femur, is seen ex- ternally, and expanded above and below. The large upper portion forms the false pelvis ("basin"), a part of the abdominal wall; the lower portion, perforated by the large thyroid ("shield-like") or obturedor ("stopper")/oramew, forms the lateral and front parts of the true 'pelvis, curving inward to meet its fellow. The hip-bone transmits the weight of the body to the femur. The three parts, ilium, ischium, and os pubis, separate in early life, ankylosed in the adult at the acetabuhim, where they meet, are conveniently recognized as distinct in the description of the bone. In following the description hold the back of the coty- loid notch downward, in the natural position of the bone. The Ilium. The ilium (" twisted") is the large, upper expanded portion, whose lower limit forms the upper two-fifths of the acetabulum, and who'se upper border, the crest, presents three lips for attachment of the flat muscles of the abdomen. The crest is sinuous, y^shaped, irregularly thickened, and subcutaneous. To the outer lip are attached the tensor vaginae femoris in front, the obliquus externus in the ventral half, the latissimus in the dorsal half, and the gluteal portion of the fascia lata in the entire length; to the middle ridge, the obliquus internus in the ventral two-thirds ; to the inner lip, the transversalis in the ven- tral three-fourths, the quadratus lumborum and erector spinse behind, and the iliac fascia in the entire length. The crest ends in front in the prominent anterior superior spine, to which the inguinal (Poupart's) ligament, the tensor vaginae femoris, and the sartorius are •attached. The latter extends on to the notch below, which transmits the external cutaneous nerve, and separates the superior from the anterior inferior spine. From the latter, situated above the acetabulum, the straight tendon of the rectus femoris and the ilio-tibial band take origin. Below this spine and between it and the ilio-