495 NODES OF THE THORAX. Fig. 524.—The lymph-vessels of the penis. (Testut.) THE NODES OF THE THORAX and their Tributary Vessels. The nodes of the thoracic cavity (Fig. 525) are all deep, and derive their lymph from deep structures; that is, not at all from integumentary organs. They are disposed in the following groups : the sternal, the intercostal, the anterior mediastinal, the posterior mediastinal, the superior mediastinal, the broncliial, and the vena-caval. They discharge into the thoracic and right lymphatic ducts. The Sternal Nodes lie in the spaces between the costal cartilages close to the borders of the breast-bone. livmph flows to them from the deeji portions of the mammary glands, from the anterior and lateral walls of the chest, from the upper part of the front and sides of the abdominal walls, from the diaphragm, and from the anterior mediastinal nodes. The Intercostal Nodes are lodged in the hindmost part of the intercostal spaces. They drain the thoracic part of the spinal canal, the costal pleura?, and the poste- rior and lateral portions of the chest-walls. The Anterior Mediastinal Nodes arc situated in front of the heart. Their lymph comes from the pericardium, the diaphragm, the liver, and the sternal nodes, and goes partly directly to the great terminal vessels of the system, and partly to superior mediastinal and sternal nodes. The Posterior Mediastinal Nodes, located around the aorta, have aflFerents from the heart, the pericardium, the lower part of the oesophagus, and the dia^^hragm, and communicate freely with the bronchial nodes. The Superior Mediastinal Nodes lie in front of the arch of the aorta. Their tributaries come from the thymus gland, the heart, the pericardium, the anterior mediastinal and the bronchial nodes. There is a direct connection between this group and the deep cervical nodes. The Bronchial Nodes (Fig. 518), gathered at the roots of the lungs, take lymph from the lungs, the pulmonary ]ileune, the lower part of the trachea, the bronchi, the bronchioles, and the pericardium, and communicate with the superior and the posterior mediastinal nodes.