THE ARTERIES. 425 Variations.—Variations are often found in the number of intercostal arteries given off from the aorta ; frequently the arteries of two or more intercostal spaces are given off by a common trunk. A few cases are reported of ol)literation of the aorta below the ductus arteriosus. These cases are consistent with life, a col- lateral circulation existing between the intercostals and branches given oif from the great arteries springing from the arch above the point of obliteration, and between the internal mammary and the deep epigastric. Surgical Anatomy.—The relations of the thoracic aorta should be studied w ith special reference to the pressure symptoms occurring in aneurism. The aneurism may by pressure produce absorption of the bodies of the thoracic vertebrte, may produce pain by pressure on the spinal nerves and the sympathetic nerves, may produce difficult deglutition by pressure on the oesophagus. The oesophagus is at first at the right of the vessel, then crosses in front of the vessel to occupy a position to the left below. By pressure on the thoracic duct, root of the left lung, the heart, and the great vessels, an aneurism may interfere with the function of these structures. Branches.—The branches of the thora- cic aorta are the pericardial, bronchial, oesophageal, posterior mediastinal, and intercostal arteries. The pericardial are vessels of small size which supply the pericardium. The hronchial arteries supply the lung struct- ure with arterial blood. There are usually one or two vessels for each side, as a ride one for the right and two for the left. In addition to supplying the lungs the bronchial arteries send branches to the bronchial lymphatic nodes, the pericardium, and the oesophagus. The esophageal arteries are small vessels, from three to five in number, given off from the course of the thoracic aorta, and sup]>lying the oesophagus. The posterior mediadiiial are small vessels of little moment, which pass backward to the thoracic vertebi'fe, and supply the lymph- atic nodes in the posterior mediastinum, and also the posterior portion of the diaphragm. The iniercostal arteries arise from the posterior and lateral surfaces of the thoracic aorta and run outward to the intercostal spaces ; they vary from nine to eleven in number. The upper two intercostal spaces are supplied, as already described, by the superior intercostal branch of the subclavian. Often, however, an aortic intercostal is sent to the sec<^nd intercostal space. These vessels run in, or just below, the well-marked intercostal grooves on the inner surfaces and lower borders of the ribs ; and running forward in the intercostal spaces to the anterior chest wall, they anastomose with the intercostal branches from the internal mam- mary and musculo-phrenic. In their course the intercostals give off posterior branches which pass backward through the intercostal space to reach the deep muscles of the back, which they supply. Spinal branches to the cord and its membranes and to the vertebral column are derived from these. The collateral Fig. 469.-Thoracic aorta. (Testnt.)