THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. 672, and meet above, a tunnel thus being formed, to which the name, canal of Corti, is given. Certain cells, called basilar, are attached to the bases of the rods on the side which presents toward the cavity, and seem to serve as buttresses to them. At the inner side of the inner rods is a row of short cells, from the upper end of which project stilf cilia, and from these circumstances thev are called inner hair-cells (internal auditory cells), beneath which are roundish, protoplasmic cells. On the farther side of the outer rods are several rows of cells similar to the inner hair-cells, and called the outer hair-cells, these being supported by the cells of Deiters, which are fusiform and send long processes upward between the hair-cells to the surface. Still farther toward the outer side are conoidal cells, the cells of Claudius, each row of which is of less height than that toward its inner side, until the level of the undiiferentiated cells lining the cavity generally is reached. Similar, ])ut less numerous, cells of Claudius are arranged next to the inner hair- cells. Over the outer hair-cells and some adjacent rows is spread a membranous network, the reticular lamina, through which the hairs protrude. At the inner side of the internal cells of Claudius is a groove, the sulcus spiralis, running parallel with the organ of Corti. From a line near the acute angle of the coch- lear canal starts a fold, at first thin, but soon enlarging into a thick pad, which stretches out over, and I'ests upon, the rods and hair-cells. It is called the tec- torial ("covering") membrane. Likeness has been suggested between this mem- brane and the gelatinous pads, loaded with otoliths, which cover the maculse acusticse of the utricle and the saccule. Branches of the auditory nerve (Fig. 720) enter among the structures which compose the organ of Corti, some being distributed to the inner hair-cells, while others end between the inner rods, and others still cross the canal of Corti and go to the outer hair-cells. Eudolymph occupies the canal of the cochlea and also the canal of Corti and all of the spaces between the cells of the organ of Corti. The Osseous Labyrinth (Figs. 721, 722). The membranous labyrinth is situated in the jjetrous portion of the temporal bone. The part of the osseous tissue which immediately surrounds it is extremely SUPERIOR SEMICIRCULAR CANAL Fig. 721.—Osseous labyrinth, isolated and viewed Fir. 722.—Osseous labyrinth, isolated and from the outer side. (Testut.) viewed from the mesial side. (Testut.) dense, forming a rigid, protective shell for it. This is the osseozis labyrinth. Its shape corresponds in the main to that of the complicated membranous labyrinth. But, although it is, as it were, a tunic for the latter, the fit is a very loose one. The membranous labyrinth in most parts occuj^ies not more than a third, in places only a fifth, of the diameter of the cavity of the osseous labyrinth. The mem- branous, however, does not lie free in the cavity of the osseous, but at every part of its course is fastened to its containing case, usually as much as a quarter of its circumference being thus attached. Where the nerve-bundles enter the membranous labyrinth, it is always closely applied to the osseous. The osseous labvrinth is li7ied with periosteum, and where the membranous comes in contact with it, bands of fibrous tissue are added, and serve to confine it in place.