THE OVARIES. 823 compartment of the pelvis, where they are connected, one on either side of the uterus, with the posterior hiyer of tlie broad ligaments. On the surface of the abdominal wall, their position is indicated by the mid-point of a line drawn from the anterior su])erior spinous ])r(K'ess of the ilium to the pubic symphysis. Dimensions, Color, and Consistence.—Each ovary is about an inch and a half in length, three-quartei's of an ineh in breadth, from one-third to one-half an inch in tiiickness, and weighs from one to two drachms. During pregnancy, the gland which contains the corpus luteum is much larger than its fellow. In the child the ovaries are rosy white, in the adult they are reddish ; and during men- struation, owing to the vascular engorgement, they assume a deeper tinge. They resemble the testicle in consistence, but are much less dense. In the old, the entire gland atrophies, and becomes hard and tibrous. Conformation and Relations.—Each ovary presents for examination two sur- faces, a superior or mesial, and an inferior or lateral ; two Ixjrders, an anterior and a posterior ; and two extremities, an external or superior, and an internal or inferior. The sapcrior .surface, convex and free, looks upward, forward, and in- ward, and is more or less covered by the fimbriae of the Fallopian tube and the meso-salpinx. The inferior surface, turned toward the side wall of the pelvis, often reposes in a shallow de])ression, the ovarian fossa, which is bounded behind and below by the internal iliac vessels and the ureter, above by the external iliac vessels, and in front by the pelvic attachment of the broad ligament. The anterior border, almost straight, is attached to the posterior layer of the bi'oad ligament, between the layers of which the vessels and nerves run to enter the ovary at a depression in this border, called the hilum. The posterior border is free, turned toward the rectum, and covered to a varying extent by the fimbriae of the Fallopian tube. The superior extremity is rounded; the inferior, more pointed, does not quite reach to the pelvic floor. (The relation which the ovary bears to the Fallopian tube will be included with a description of the latter structure.) Fixation.—The ovaries are held in position by their attached anterior borders, and by the utero-ovarian, the tubo-ovarian, and the suspensory ligaments. The FIMBRI/E OS uter'i vagina Fir. 8!>1.—The uterus and appendages, front view. On the left side the tube is pulled down, the ovary lifted np. (Testut.) utero-ovarian ligament is a short rounded cord somewhat over an inch in length, which, running between the folds of the broad ligament, connects the inferior extremity of the ovary with the superior angle of the uterus, where it is attached a little below and behind the origin of the F.i\llopian tube. It is composed of fibrous tissue and plain mu.scular fibres, the latter derived from the superficial