230 THE ARTICULATIONS. ening the periosteum. The anterior ligament is stronger, and consists of deep transverse fibres and superficial oblique, decussating fibres connected with the tendons of the muscles arising from the body of the os pubis. The inferior or mb- pabic ligament is a thick triangular mass of transverse and curved fibres, round- ing off the subpubic angle of the pubic rami, which forms the ventral angle of the pelvic outlet. Movementfi, Mechanism, etc.—Owing to the thickness of the disc between the fifth lumbar vertebra and the sacrum, movements are more free here than between any two lumbar vertebra, and especially flexion and extension, which occur in sitting or in rising from the sitting posture. The inclination of the pelvis depends partly upon the sacro-vertebral angle between the sacrum and the spine, but also, and in great part, on the obliquity of the hip-bones to the sacrum at the sacro-iliac joint. At the sacro-iliac joint there is no movement: it merely serves to break shocks. In the erect position the base of the sacral wedge is directed so largely forward, and the ventral or broader surface of the sacrum is directed so largely downward, that the sacrum is not held in place by virtue of its wedge shape, but is suspended from the ilia by the very strong posterior sacro-iliac liga- ments in such a way that the greater the pressure the tighter is the union. The tendency to rotation of the sacrum, due to the weight of the spine transmitted to its forward projecting base, is resisted above by the ilio-lumbar and below by the sacro-sciatic ligaments (the former directed backward, the latter forward from the sacrum). At the pubic symphysis there is only a slight yielding of the cartilage, which may occur at childbirth, Avhen the cartilage is softer and more vascular ; but the decussating tendinous fibi'es of the abdominal muscles, which cross it in front, would tend to brace the bones more tightly together by their contraction during labor. The sacro-coccygeal joint allows of flexion and extension. In defecation and parturition the coccyx is pushed backward. This joint may be ankylosed in adult life, but less often in females than in males, and its mobility seems to increase during pregnancy. THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER LIMB. 1. The Hip-joint (Figs. 249-251). In this typical ball-and-socket joint the round head of the femur is received into the acetabulum of the hip-bone. The cartilage-clad surface of the acetabulum is horseshoe-shaped, broader above and behind, and deficient below at the coty- loid notch and in the depression at the bottom of the acetabulum, which is occu- pied by a mass of fat covered by synovial membrane—the so-called synovial (Haversian) gland. The articular cartilage of the head of the femur is thicker above, where it bears the weight of the body, and is only wanting a little behind and below the centre at the depression for the ligamentum teres. The acetabular rim is completed below by the transverse and decussating fibres of the transverse ligament, which bridges over the cotyloid notch, and converts it into a foramen through which articular vessels pass. This ligament blends with and helps to support the cotyloid ligament, a thick fibro-cartilage, triangular on section, firmly attached by a broad base to the rim of the acetabulum, which it deepens to more than a hemisphere. Its concave inner surface and thin free margin tightly em- brace the head of the femur a little beyond its greatest circumference and, aided by atmospheric pressure, hold it in place when its ligaments are divided. Its fibres pass (obliquely from without inward, and its outer convex surface is in con- tact with the capsular ligament. It is covered on both sides by synovial mem- brane. The capsular ligament is one of the strongest in the body. Surrounding the joint, it is attached to the pelvis at or near the rim of the acetalndum, outside of the cotyloid ligament, and to the transverse ligament. On the femur it is attached in front to the anterior intertrochanteric line, from the tubercle above to