THE TIBIA. 155 outer and inner sides respectively of the trochlear surface. The upper border, or base, is bevelled in front, and attaches the tendons of the muscles composing the quadriceps extensor. The apex, directed downward, and the border on either side of it attach the ligamentum patellae, while the rough area of the dorsal surface above the apex is in relation to a mass of fat. In front of the patella is a bursa separating it from the skin. The entire articular surface is not in contact with the femur at any time, but one part after another as the knee is moved. The patella is liable to transverse frac- ture from muscular action, and, as its blood- supply comes largely from above, care should be taken in dealing with the upper fragment not to strangulate it. Fig. 17 -The upper surface of the right tibia. (Testut.) THE 1 The <i6;a ("shin") (Figs. 175-177) is the inner, larger, and more forward of the bones of the leg, and conveys the weight of the body from the femur to the astragalus. The upper extremity, or head, is thick and inclined slightly backward. It is expanded on each side into a massive tuberosity, whose upper aspect presents a slightly concave articular surface, which receives the condyles of the femur. Of these articular surfaces, the inner is longer from before backward and more concave ; the outer is smaller, flatter, and more circular. Both are flattened per- ipherally, where the semilunar flbro- cartilages rest upon them and deepen the socket for the femoral condyles. Projecting upward, between these sur- faces, is the spine of the tibia, which is laterally bifid. To rough depressions between the articular surfaces are at- tached in front of the spine the anterior crucial ligament, with the forward ex- tremities of the semilunar cartilages, and behind the spine the posterior cru- cial ligament with the hind extremities of the semilunar cartilages. The de- pression behind the spine is continued backward into a notch, the pjoiMteal notch, Avhich separates the tuberosities posteriorly. In front the tuberosities are continuous, and form on the anterior surface of the head a triangle whose apex points downward and ends at the tubercle, the lower end of which attaches the ligamentum patellfe, its upper smooth part being separated from the ligament SPINE Fig. 17fi.—The right tibia and fibula in their nor- mal relations, front view. (Modified from Testut.) by a bursa. Upon it the body rests in