THE FASCIJE OF THE ABDOMINAL CAVITY. 359 origin to the transversalis abdominis ; the obliqnus internus abdominis is inserted into a secondary lamella, which splits off from the outer layer ; and the latissimus and serratus posterior inferior arise from still another lamina, which separates from the main fascia nearer the median line. Fig. 418.—Semidia^'rammatio horizontal section of trunk to show the lumbar tascia and the tendons of the lateral abdominal muscles. The upper figure shows the complete sheathing of the rectus in its superior por- tions ; the lower shows the arrangement in its inferior fourth. (Testut.) The front portions of the abdominal wall are largely made up of the tendons of insertion of the external oljlique, internal oblique, and transversalis muscles, and these tendons are fascife in the same sense that the different tendons are, which constitute the lumbar fascia; but they are rarely mentioned other than as apo- neuroses of insertion—a term which implies their tendinous character. THE FASCIA OF THE ABDOMINAL CAVITY. The abdominal cavity is everywhere lined with a serous membrane, the peri- toneum. Between this, which furnishes the free surface of the cavity, and the muscular portion of the abdominal walls is interposed a delicate membrane, which, in the greater part of the abdomen proper, is known as the transversalis fascia, on account of its intimate connection with the great muscle against whose inner sur- face it lies, and, in the back part of the abdomen proper and in the pelvis, is called the iliaG fascia, because the iliacus is one of the great muscles with which it is in close relation, the other being the psoas. Each of these fascite is somewhat pro- longed beyond the abdominal cavity, as Avill presently be detailed. The Transversalis Fascia. The transversalis fascia is thickest at the groin, gradually becomes thinner as it is ti'aced upwai'd, and is nothing but areolar tissue where it lines the under side of the diaphragm. It is attached to tlie inner border of the iliac crest, the outer half of Poupart's ligament, the spine of the pubic bone, and the ilio-pectineal line. Beneath Poupart's ligament, a little to the inner side of its middle, the great ves- sels of the thigh, the femoral artery and vein, are found, the vein nearer the median line of the body. In front of these vessels this fascia is prolonged, forming the anterior part of their common sheath (the femoral or cniral sJieath), the posterior part being contributed by the iliac fascia. As the transversalis fascia escapes from the abdomen at this point, it is strengthened by a band, which