421 THE ARTERIES. the fourth the contiguous sides of the middle and index fingers ; opposite the web of the fingers the arteries are joined by the interosseous branches from the deep pahnar arch. The Radial Artery (Figs. 462, 465). The radial artery arises from the brachial a half inch below the bend of the elbow. It passes downward along the radial side of the forearm, internal to the nniscular belly and tendon of the brachio-radialis muscle ; a little above the wi'ist- joint it winds around the lower end of the radius to the posterior surface of the carpus; then passes into the hand at the base of the first interosseous space, and forms the deep palmar arch by anastomosing with the communicating or deep palmar branch of the ulnar. Relations op tpie Radial in the Forearm. Iti front. Skin, superficial and deep fiiscife, belly ()f lirachio-radia 1 is. Internally. Pronator radii teres. Flexor carpi radialis. Radial artery. Behind. Externally. Brachio - radi- alis. Radial nerve. Radius covered by supinator. Flexor sublimis digitoruni. Pronator teres. Flexor longus pollicis. Pronator quadrat us. Variations.—The radial frequently springs from the brachial in the arm, and may even arise from the axillary. Some- times it is very small, its place being taken by branches from the ulnar and interosseous, and in this ease it mav be that no pulse can be found in the usual position. Surgical Anatomy (Fig. 463).—The radial can l)e exposed f )r ligation in any ])art of the forearm by an incision along the inner border of the brachio-radialis muscle, its belly above, its tendon below; after dividing the skin, superficial and deep fascise, the muscle is drawn to the outer side and the artery exposed, ac- companied by veufe comites and by the radial nerve, which is external. Branches.—The branches of the ra- dial are divided into three groups : those in the forearm, those in the wrist, and those in the hand. The branches hi fhr forearm are radial recurrent, muscular, anterior radial carpal, and the su])erficialis vohe. The radial recurrent passes iq)ward between the brachialis and the brachio-radialis to the anterior aspect of the external con- FiG. 465.—Arteries of the forearm—front vie\7. (Testut.)