436 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. Surgical Anatomy.—The position of the pudic artery and its branches must be carefully studied with reference to the many operations performed on the perineum and on the external genitals. In the old lateral operation for stone the artery, or one of its large branches, maybe wounded, and give rise to serious hemorrhage. In external urethrotomy and in median lithotomy the roof of the membranous urethra should be avoided, as immediately above it lies the large artery of the bulb, a branch of the internal pudic. The artery can be ligated at two points of its course ; the first where it crosses the outer surface of the spine of the ischium, and second along the ascending ramus of the os pubis. The Branches of the internal pudic are small branches given oflF within the pelvis to the muscles with which it is in contact. In tlie perineum the branches are the inferior hemorrhoidal, superficial perineal, transverse perineal, artery of the bulb, artery of the corpus cavernosum, and dorsal artery of the penis. The inferior hemorrhoidal crosses the ischio-rectal fossa to reach the lower end of the bowel, to which it is distributed, as well as to the contiguous integument. It anastomoses with the other hemorrhoidal arteries. The superficial perineal winds u}>ward and inward bcneatia the superficial perineal fascia, and supplies the superficial muscles and integument of the peri- neum proper. The transverse perineal (often a branch of the superficial perineal) runs along the transversus perinei to the median line to the bulb of the urethra. The artery of the bulb is a vessel of good size whicli is given off from the internal pudic between tlie layers of the triangular ligament. It passes upward and inward to the bulb, which it supplies. This vessel and its branches often give rise to troublesome or even serious hemorrhage in the operation of external urethrotomy or median lithotomy, in which the bulb is divided ; or the artery may be wounded in operations for lateral lithotomy. The artery of the corpus cavernosum runs upward and inward between the layers of the triangular ligament to the corpus cavernosum, which it supplies, breaking up into the cavernous spaces of that structure. The dorsal artery of the penis passes upward to the suspensory ligament of the penis, which it pierces, and runs along the fibrous sheath of the upper surface of the penis to the glans, which it supplies. This vessel communicates with the artery of the corpus cavernosum. In amputations of the penis these vessels must be ligated. The arteries of the corpus cavernosum are best controlled by sewing up the strong fibrous sheath of each coi'pus. The distribution of the internal pudic in the female is ]iractically the same as in tlie male, but the vessel is smaller. The artery of the bulb supplies the bulbus vestibuli, and the terminal branches send an artery to the corpus cavernosum of the clitoris and a dorsal artery to the clitoris. The Sciatic Artery (Fig. 475) is one of the two terminal branches from the anterior trunk of the internal iliac. It leaves the pelvis through tlie great sacro- seiatic foramen below the pyriformis muscle, and passes down the back of the thigh in close company with the sciatic nerves to supply the buttock and upper portion of the posterior aspect of the thigh. Variations.—The sciatic sometimes ai'ises by a common trunk with the gluteal. Rarely the sciatic is a vessel of great size, and is the main source of blood for the lower extremitv, practically taking the place of the femoral. Surgical Anatomy.—The sciatic may be ligated as it leaves the pelvis. An incision should be made in a line drawn from the posterior superior spine of the ilium to the tuberosity of the ischium, the fibres of the gluteus maximus separated, the pyriformis muscle exposed, and beneath its lower border the sciatic artery is found. The same incision exposes the internal pudic, as it winds over the surface of the spine of the ischium. Branches.—Within the pelvis the artery gives ofip small branches to the mus- cles with which it is in contact. After leaving the pelvis it gives ofT coccygeal, inferior gluteal, muscular and articular branches, and a branch which accompanies