THE ARTICULATIONS BETWEEN THE ATLAS, AXIS, ETC. 209 aspect thin bundles of fibres pass upward and downward to tlie cranial aspect of the anterior border of the foramen magnum and to the dorsum of the body of the axis respectively. These with the transverse portion form a cross, hence the name crucial ligament, sometimes applied to the group. Two other ligaments unite the axis and atlas. The anterior (dlanto-axial ligament is a thin membrane between the ventral arch of the atlas and the front of the body of the axis, rep- FiG. 228.—Sagittal section of the joints between the occipital bone and the atlas and axis. (Testut.) resenting the anterior common ligament, whose direct upward continuation is seen as a median cord-like thickening of the ligament attached to the ventral tubercle of the atlas. The posterior atlanto-axial ligament represents the liga- menta subflava, but has little elastic tissue. It loosely connects the dorsal arch of the atlas and the laminte of the axis, and is perforated on each side by the second cervical nerves. B. Ligaments between the Axis and the Occipital Bone (Figs. 228, 229).— The occipito-axial or occipito-cervieal ligauient is the upper end of the posterior common ligament extending from the third and second cervical vertebrae to the basilar groove of the occipital bone. Some of its fibres pass over the axis without attachment, giving rise to two layers, of which the hind one may be designated the posterior, and the forward one the middle, occipito-axial ligament. The lateral odontoid, alar, or check ligaments are two strong fibrous cords, which extend from the sides of the summit of the odontoid process transversely out- ward to the rough impression on the inner side of each occipital condyle. They lie at a little higher level than the transverse ligament. Each Is made tense by turning the head to the o]iposite side. The middle odontoid or suspensory liga- ment (anterior occipito-axial ligament) is a slender, median, fibrous band connect- ing the apex of the odontoid and the fore ])art of the margin of the foramen magnum. It is relaxed by flexion, tightened by extension. 14