779 THE KIDNEYS. Fig. 846.—Diasram of the structure of a lobe of the kidney. The lobe is seen In vertical section, the cortex being marked oil' from tin- i]iiMl\ina. Four medullary rays encroach upon the cortex. At the left is shown the course of a single, cDiitinuuus series of tubes—the straight and spiral tubes appearing in the medullary ray, the straight, looped, and excretory in the medulla proper, the capsule, neck, convoluted, irregular, and arche'd in tlic cortex proper. Next is seen the labyrinth, composed of a mass of tubes in the cortex, with a medullary ray for >\ centre. Equidistant from the ray on each side is a broken red line, marking the position of an inter- lobular artery. The jiarts between these lines constitute a lobule. Farther to the right is an interlobular artery, giving" ort' lateral branches (afferent vessels), each of which ends in a tuft of capillaries, from which the blood is collected by an efferent vessel. The uppermost of the tufts is shown enclosed in a capsule. On the right of the interloliular artery the efferent vessels break up into a capillary network, which surrounds the (unrepresented) tubes in the cortex and ray. The lowest efferent sends vertical vessels also into the medulla. On the right the interlobular vein is seen gathering the blood from all the parts supplied by the Interlobular artery. A branch of the renal artery courses upward between cortex and medulla, and forms an arch (here broken) over the base of the medulla. From it the interlobular arteries pass upward into the cortex, and straight branches go downward into the medulla, supplying its structure, and ending at the apex in the capil- laries. From the last tlie radicles of the renal vein arise, and accompany the straight arteries to the base of the medulla, where a venous arch is formed, continuous with which is the vena comes of the entering artery. The calyx embraces the ape.x of the medullary pyramid. It is lined with epithelium, which continues from it over the apex, the latter being perforated witli the many apertures of excretory tubes.