600 THE NERVES. two bundles of dorsal nerve-roots enter it. It consists of bipolar nerve cells, one pole or process of each cell forming the peripheral portion of a sensory nerve fibril, the other pole or process forming its central continuation. With the excep- tions to be mentioned, they are placed in the intervertebral foramina immediately beyond the point where the roots enter the dural sheath provided for them by the theca vertebralis. The ganglia of the first and second cervical nerves lie on the laminse of the atlas and axis respectively ; those of the sacral and coccygeal nerves are found within the spinal canal, at a variable distance from their points of emergence from it. ■ The course of the nerve-roots within the spinal canal varies considerably at dif- ferent levels, the growth of the spinal cord not being equal to that of the verte- bral column ; for, while the cord occupies the whole length of the canal in the foetus, it only reaches as low as the body of the first lumbar vertebra in the adult. Thus the first spinal nerve ascends slightly to reach the space between the atlas and occipital bone, through which it leaves the spinal canal ; tlie second and third are nearly horizontal; the fourth runs obliquely downward and outward and the obliquity of the others within the vertebral canal steadily increases from here downward till the nerve-roots of the lumbar and sacral nerves run vertically downward for an increasing distance, thus foiling the Cauda equina. This will be easily appreciated by a glance at Figures 652 and 653. Topographical Anatomy of the Cord and Spinal Nerve-roots (Fig. 652).—It is important for surgical purposes to determine the relationship between the bony landmarks furnished by the spines of the vertebrae, and the superficial origins of the spinal nerves. The main surgical data are graphically described in Fig. 652. The brackets in column A show the extreme limits between which in dif- ferent subjects examined by Reid each grouj) of nerve-roots was found to arise. E shows each nerve cut off at the level of its intervertebral foramen, thus afford- ing a ready estimate of the obliquity of its course in the neural canal; C gives the vertical distance in millimeters which in Testut's case of a subject of eighteen years of age separated the superficial origin of each of the nerves marked from its intervertebral foramen ; and the other columns will be readily intelligible to the senior student. It is be noted that the distribution marked in D, E, and F is only broadly true and does not pretend to anatomical minuteness; but it is for that reason all the more valuable for clinical purposes. Nomenclature (Fig. 653).—There are thirty-one pairs of the spinal nerves, namely, eight cervical, twelve thoracic, five lumbar, five sacral, and one coccygeal. It Avili be noted that these numbers correspond with the number of vertebra? in each region except the cervical nerves, which are one in excess. The first cervical nerve leaves the vertebral canal above the dorsal arch of the atlas, between it and the occipital bone ; the eighth passes through the intervertebral foramen between the seventh cervical and first thoracic vertebra;. Thus the first seven cervical nerves are named from the vertebrae below them ; the eighth cervical has no corresponding vertebra, and the thoracic, lumbar, and other nerves are named from the vertebrae above them. Mode of Distribution.—A spinal nerve, formed as above by the union of a motor and a sensory root, is a short trunk, which, immediately after its exit from the intervertebral foramen, gives ofiP a small recurrent branch, and then divides into a ventral and a dorsal primary division (Fig. 650). The dorsal primary divisions, except those of the first and second cervical nerves, are smaller than the ventral. They pass backward and divide into two branches, external and internal. They supply the skin of the back of the head, neck, trunk, and gluteal region, and the muscles which act directly upon the spinal column. The ventral primary divisions, with the two exceptions above mentioned, are larger than the posterior. Each ventral division is joined by one or two branches from the neighboring sympathetic ganglion by which it receives non-medullated