723 THE SMALL INTESTINE. and includes in its wall the terminal portions of the common bile-duct and the pancreatic duct; the third part is attached to the vena cava inferior, the aorta, and the right crus of the diaphragm ; and the fourth is fastened to the left side of the vertebral column, the left kidney and its vessels. The relations of the peritoneum to each of the parts of the duodenum will be seen easily by consult- inc the diagrams. Figs. 77-4-777, The first part is somewhat movable, but the others are so bound down by the peritoneum and their close connections with otiier structures as to be practically lixed in their places. Still another agency contributes to this immobility—the suspensory muscle, a delicate, flat, flbro- FiG. 776.—Diagram of the third part of the Fig. 777.—Diagram of the fourth part of the duodenum, duodenum, to show its peritoneal relations. to show its peritoneal relations. muscular band, which starts from the left crus of the diaphragm, and runs down- ward to its insertion on the duodeno-jejunal angle and the dorso-mesial aspect of the fourth part of the duodenum. The valvuke conniventes are particularly well developed in this bowel. In the areolar coat are situated many spheroidal, compound, racemose glands, which open upon the free surface. They form an almost complete layer under the true mucosa at the upper part of the duodenum. They are peculiar to this portion of the small intestine, and hence are called duodenal glands, although they are often known as the glands of Brunner. About the middle of the concave side of the descending (second) part is the common opening of the pancreatic and bile ducts. THE JEJUNO-ILEUM. The principal features of the small intestine having been presented, the jejuno-ileum, which is the main part of it, requires but little special attention. Beginning at the termination of the duodenum, it is thrown into convolutions so numerous and so irri'gular in their disposition that it is impossible to lay down a rule by which sight alone can distinguish a proximal from a distal portion. However, in general there is some probability that its proximal half is located above and at the left, its distal below and at the right. To determine whether a knuckle of intestine is proximal or distal to another, one is assisted by digital examination of the part of the mesentery belonging to each. The convolution whose mesentery is the higher is nearer the stomach. This method not only is more exj)editious, but it prevents the injury which the bowels niay suffer from prolonged manipulation. The last portion of the jejuno-ileum reaches the large intestine from the left and below.