32.3 MUSCLES MOVING THE DIGITS OF THE FOOT. Insertion, the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, conjointly with the adductor obliquus and the outer head of the flexor brevis. Action, adduction of great toe. Nerve, the external plantar. Interossei Plantares (Fig. 387).—" The plantar interosseous muscles." Number, three. Situation, the second, third, and fourth spaces between the metatarsal bones, on the plantar aspect. Origin, the inner and under surfaces of metatarsal bones, as follows : the first on tlie third ])one, the second on the fourth, the third on the fifth. Direction, forward. Insertion, each on the inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the corresponding toe and FIRST PLANTAB INTEROSSEOUS THIRD PLANTAR INTEROSSEOUS SECOND PLANTAR INTEROSSEOUS Fig. 386.—Muscles in the third layer of the right sole. (Testut.) Fig. 387.—Interossei plantares of right foot, that to which adduction Is made. (Testut.) The line xx is its extensor tendon. Action, adduction toward the second toe; also, flexion of the first phalanges, and afterward extension of the second and third phalanges. Nerve, the external plantar. The interosseous muscles, the abductor and the two adductors of the hallux, and the abductor minimi digiti are physiologically upon the same plane, forming a group whose members produce the lateral movements of the toes. The great toe has one muscle (abductor hallucis) inserted on the inner side of the base of the first phalanx, and two adductors on the opposite side of the same bone ; each of the other toes has two muscles similarly attached. They are arranged as fol- lows, the inner muscle in each case being named first: the second toe has the first dorsal interosseous and the second dorsal interosseous ; the third toe has the first plantar interosseous and the third dorsal; the fourth toe has the second plantar interosseous and the fourth dorsal; the fifth toe has the third plantar interosseous and the abductor minimi digiti. The interossei inserted upon the second toe are alternately abductors and adductors; the other dorsal interossei are always abductors, and all of the jilantar interossei are adductors, the middle line of the second toe when at rest being the line from and to which movements are reckoned. Compare the arrangement with that of the homologous parts in the upper limb. Psoas Parvus (Fis. 325).—" The little loin-muscle is small, flat, inconstant, of irregu- lar origin, situated in front of the psoas magnus. Most frequently it arises from the bodies of