THE FASCIA. 354 this last becomes attached to the spines of the thoracic vertebrae. At its outer side the axillary fascia merges with the sheath of the vessels and is continuous with the fascia of the arm ; it is ^^iLLStf A\ also connected with the fascia of the shoulder. SUBCLAVIUS CLAVI-PECTO RAL FASCIA SHEATH OF PEC- TORALIS MINOR PECTORALIS MINOR LATISSIMUS FASCIA OF LATISSIMUS ' SUSPENSORY LIGA MENT OF AXILLA AXILLARY FASCIA Fig. 413.—The pectoral and axillary fascia?, seen in sagittal section. (Testut.j The Clavi-coraco-axillary Fascia. This is a quadrilateral sheet which runs vertically from the clavicle and coracoid process above to the fascia of the armpit below, and lies just behind the pectoralis ma- jor (Fig. 414). It has a double attachment to the clavicle, one layer being in front, the other behind, and between them is lodged the subclavius, to which they furnish a strong sheath. The hind layer is continuous with the sheath of the axillary vessels, which extends downward from the cervical fascia. In the middle of its course the clavi-coraco- axillary fascia splits and closely embraces the pectoralis minor between its layers. From the lower (outer) border of this muscle it is again single, and, extending outward, unites with the sheath of the coraco-brachialis. The portion of the fascia above the pectoralis minor, being fastened internally to the first rib, is named the costo-eoracoid membrane and clavi^jectoral fascia. The upper- most part of it is the strongest, and is called the costo-eoracoid ligament. The portion of the fascia between the pecto- ralis minor and the coraco-brachialis is triangular, its apex being at the cora- coid process, its base at the lowest part of the axilla. It serves to preserve the hollow of the armpit, and has, con- sequently, been named the suspensory ligament of the axilla. The Intercostal Fasciae. The external intercostal muscles are covered on their outer surfaces and the internal intercostal on their inner surfaces by the fibrous membranes, which are called respectively the ex- ternal and internal intercostal fascia;. They are most pronounced in the por- tions of the spaces between the ribs side^fron\"vi;w'^^TeYtut7 which are not occupied by both va- rieties of these muscles. A thinner fascia separates the muscles of each space. THE FASCI.ai OF THE SHOULDER. In the region of the shoulder are the subscapular, supraspinous, infraspinous, and deltoid fasciae (Fig. 415).