883 PRACTICAL ANATOMY. By F. H. GERRISH. -v IT is the purpose of this final chapter to give directions concerning the conduct of dissections. Preparatory Study.—There is but little profit in attempting a dissection until one has become familiar with the appcai'ance of the parts involv^ed, and has learned the chief facts concerning their structure. This acquaintance should be gained by careful study of their descriptive anatomy, and by frequent inspection and handling of well-dissected parts, prepared for this very purpose of pre- liminary drill. Without such equipment it is impossible to follow fully the admirable precept of Oliver Wendell Holmes—" Let the eye go before the hand, and the mind before the eye." Cooperation in Work.—The men who are dissecting on the same subject should work harmoniously. A spirit of accommodation is essential, for it is necessary that the attitude of a part and even of the whole cadaver should be changed at times, and occasionally this circumstance will oblige a student to alter his order of work temporarily, or even to suspend it altogether for a while. Those whose parts of the subject have a structural continuity or adjacency will sometimes work to best advantage at different hours. The Taking of Pains.—All work should be done with care and deliberation. Patience and intelligence are essential to good results. Hurry is not only waste- ful, hnt ineffective. The number of days which should be spent upon a stated part is not here prescribed, because competent men work with different degrees of speed. The task is soon enough done, when it is well enough done. Cleaning Organs.—"The art of dissection consists in the complete removal of this [areolar] tissue from around the other structures, so as to expose the jiarts enwrapped therein " (Macalister). When the meshes of areolar tissue are occu- pied by cells of fat, dissection is much more difficult, and the result is less satis- factory. Consequently, when a choice is possible, a subject should be selected which is lean. Every part as it comes to view should be cleaned thoroughly—that is, freed from enveloping areolar tissue. In doing this, the cuts of the knife should be parallel with the fibres of the part, if it be muscle, nerve, or fascia ; in the direction of its long axis, if it be a vessel. The vessels and nerves should be cleaned from large trunks to small. Finish the cleaning of one fasciculus or vessel befoi'e attempting another. In dissecting fine vessels and nerves, the point of tlie scalpel may be used to advantage ; but in the dissection of muscles it is ordinarily advisal)le to employ the belly of the blade, making long, sweeping cuts. In this way greater smooth- ness of dissection is obtained. Whatever the part, it should be made tense before dissection. In the case of muscles the requisite tension may be gained by position; but in the case of a muscle whose fibres run in various directions, it is necessary to place the part in a different attitude for each of them. Blocks of wood, variously adjusted between