THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 834 formation of the deciduu. The membrane, as soon as the ovule has been engrafted upon it, loses its cyliudrical epithelium while the cells of the eorium increase. The ridges of the arbor vita^ disa})pear ; otherwise there is but little change in the cervix. At parturition the greater part of the mucous membrane is destroyed to be restored in twenty to twenty-five days by the same method as after men- struation. Following parturition the uterus never attains its former (virgin) size. Variations Depending on Age.—In the foetus, the uterus is contained in the abdominal cavity, the cervix is larger than the body, the fundus is undeveloped, and the ridges of the arbor vitse are distinct. At puberty, the cervix and body are about equal in length, and the fundus has reached the level of the pelvic brim. In the old the entire organ atroi)hies. Vessels and Nerves (Fig. 897).—The arteries Avhich supply the uterus are arranged in three jiairs—the uterine, the funicular, and the ovarian. The uterine artery is a branch of the anterior division of the internal iliac. From its origin TUBAL VESSELS OS uteri' vagina cut open behind Fig. 897.—Vessels of the uterus and its appendages, rear view. (Testut.) it descends along the pelvic wall into the base of the broad ligament, then, taking a horizontal course, it crosses in front of the ureter and reaches the side of the cei'- vix at the level of the vaginal insertion or a little below. From this point it is reflected upward, running close beside the lateral border of the uterus until it reaches the superior angle, Avhere it ends by dividing into two branches, one of which anastomoses with the ovarian artery while the other is distributed to the Fallopian tube. From the ascending portion of the vessel numerous transverse tortuous branches are given off to the anterior and posterior surfaces of the uterus. These penetrate the uterine walls, and ramify in the middle muscular layer, where they divide into two sets of branches, superficial and deep. The former return to supply the outer muscidar layer and the serous coat, the latter are distributed to the mucous membrane, forming ])lexuses in its superficial layers and around the glands. At the level of the isthmus the transverse branches are larger than else- where, and, with the corres])onding divisions of the opposite artery, they form on the outer surface of the uterus the arterial circle of Huguier. Several small branches to the bladder and vagina arise from the uterine artery at or near its point of reflection. The funicular ("pertaining to a rope") artery, from the superior vesical, joins the round ligament at the internal abdominal ring and divides into two branches, superior and inferior. The former accompanies the ligament to the superior angle of the uterus, where it anastomoses with the uterine and ovarian arteries; the latter follows the ligament to its distal termination.