THE URETHRA. 789 though unlike thi.s in being disseminated througliont the muscular coat, instead of constituting a discrete layer. The female urethra is very distensible, and may be dilated far beyond its usual calibre without loss of its tone. The Male Urethra. The male urethra (Fig. 859) is a tube which carries not only urine, but also semen, and only a small portion nearest the bladder is devoted exclusively to the former use. It extends from the meatus urinarius internus in the bladder to the SPONGY URETHRA Fig. 859.—The male uretlira, in .sagittal section. (Testut.) meatus urinarius externus at the distal end of the penis. It is divided into three portions : first, the pro!<t(dic (called also the prodatic urethra), named from its being contained in the prostate gland ; second, the vmnbranom (called also the membranous urethra), reaching from the distal end of the prostate to the proximal end of the spongy body, and passing through the triangular ligament of the perineum, named because, instead of being embedded in the substance of some organ, as are the other portions, it is a free tube in the greater part of its extent; and third, the spo^f/y portion or the t^pongy urethra, which occupies the corpus spongiosum of the penis. The length of the uretlira varies at different times in the same individual, owing mainly to physiological changes in the condition of the erectile penis, in which the largest part of the urethra is contained. In the flaccid state it measures 6^ inches ; but this length is vastly increased by the erection of the penis. In the common operation of catheterization the urethra is stretched two inches or more. Its length is divided among its three portions as follows : prostatic \\ inch, mem- branous ^ inch, spongy 4J inches. The first and second parts are not subject to great physiological changes such as characterize the third. The urethra has two pronounced curves. In the prostatic portion its course is nearly ])erpendicnlarly downward ; in the membranous it runs downward with a. forward sweep ; in the spongy it passes forward almost horizontallv for two inches, and then bends sharply downward. Thus, the first and second portions describe