ELEMENTARY TISSUES. 54 circumferential, are of periosteal formation, the remnants of an earlier stage of growth than is shown in any Haversian system. The lacunae are occupied by nucleated corpuscles, called bone-cclh, fine pro- cesses of which extend into the canaliculi. Lacunas and canaliculi are character- istic of osseous tissue, and are found in all true bone. But Haversian canals are not present in plates of bone wliich are so thin that sufficient nourishment is afforded by blood-vessels upon their opposite surfaces, as in many lamellse of the cancellous tissue, and frequently in a part of the lachrymal bone. Fig. 43.—Diagram of the structure of osseous tissue. A small part of a transverse section of the shaft of a long bone is shown. At the uppermost part is the periosteum covering the outside of the bone ; at the lower- most part is the endosteum lining the marrow-cavity. Between these is the compact tissue, consisting largely of a series of Haversian systems, each being circular in outline and perforated by a central canal. In the first one is shown only the area occupied by a system; in the second is seen the concentric arrangement of the lamellEe; and in the others, respectively," canaliculi; lacuna*: lacunae and canaliculi; the contents of the canal, artery, vein, lymphatic, and areolar tissue; lamellfe, lacunse, and canaliculi; and, finally, all of the structures composing a complete system. Between the systems are circumferential and intermediate lamella, only a few of which are represented as lodging lacunse, though it is to be understood that lacunse are in all parts. The periosteum is seen to be made up of a fibrous layer and a vascular layer, and to have upon its attached surface a stratum of cells. From the fibrous layer xjroje'ct inward the rivet-like fibres of Sharpey. (F. H. G.) If a thin layer is peeled off" of the surface of a decalcified bone, minute projections from its under surface may be seen. These are inward prolongations of the periosteum, and are known as the perforating fibres of Sharpey. They are not found in Haversian systems, but only in the circumferential and interme- diate lamellse, which, as has been already said, are developed from the periosteum. They seem to conti-ibute to the strength of the portions of bone in which they