78 EMBRYOLOGY. zoa, but, as their name indicates, serve for the support of the germ-cells, and probably assist in their nutrition. The spermatozoa are the result of modification of the spermatids. Each of these latter is at first a round cell with a rather large nucleus, near which lies the centrosome. Gradually this cell elongates, the nucleus takes up a position near one extremity, an axial filament develops in the cell-body, the centrosome comes to lie behind the nucleus, and, as the final result, there is produced the mature spermatozoon, a body measuring in length about ^-^y^ inch, and consisting of (a) a pyriform head composed of the nucleus of the original spermatid, surrounded by an exceedingly thin layer of protoplasm ; (b) of a " middle piece," immediately behind the head, and representing probably the centrosome of the spermatid; (c) of the tail, derived from the cell-body of the spermatid, and composed of an axial filament surrounded by a sheath of protoplasm, somewhat variable in form, though usually simply cylindrical; and (d) of a terminal filament, which is the end portion of the axial filament. Oogenesis. The ovum, as it exists in the ovary, corresponds to the primary spermatocyte of the male, and must undergo certain changes ere it is I'eady for union with the spermatozoon.' When I'eady to burst from the Graafian follicle, the human ovum (Fig. 86) is a spherical cell about Yj-jy inch in diameter, enclosed within a meiaibrane, the zona radiata, and containing a large nucleus, situated somewhat excen- trically, while centrally there are a numl)er of granules of food- yolk, a substance much more abundant in the ova of other mammals, such as the cat, and which forms the greater mass of the ovum of birds and rejitiles. The maturation phenomena (Fig. 87) by a series of divisions con- vert the ovum into a structure homologous with a spermatid. At the first division (A, B, C) the oocyte, as the ovum at this stage may be termed, divides into two cells, one of which is, however, very small and is termed a polar- globule, while the other is practically as large as the original oocyte. By a second division {£>, E) a second polar globule is formed, and the nucleus then passes into the resting stage and moves toward the centre of the ovum [F). There are thus two maturation divisions, just as there are two divisions of the spermatocytes in spermatogenesis ; and the polar globules are to be regarded as abortive ova, which take no further part in development, but degenerate. After the extrusion of the polar globules the ovum is ready for union with the spermatozoon—a process which occurs probably, as a rule, in the upper part of the Fallopian tube. A spermatozoon penetrating the zona radiata is received into the substance of the ovum, and gradually passes centrally toward the ovum-nu- cleus. The tail of the spermatozoon is sooner or later absorbed ; but the head— which, it will be remembered, represents the nucleus of the spermatid—and the middle piece pass on to come into close ajiposition, and finally to fuse, with the ovum-nucleus, the compound nucleus so produced soon becoming converted into a division spindle which inaugurates the segmentation of the ovum. 1 Neither these clianges nor tlie phenomena of fertilization have yet been observed in the liiinian ovum. They have been observed, however, repeatedly in the ova of many of the lower animals, both vertebrate and invertebrate, and their general similarity in all cases makes the probability that they occur also in the human ovum almost a certainty. GERMINAL. VESICLE. CELLS OF ORONA. ZONA RADIATA. NUCLEUS. .GERMINAL SPOT. FOOD YOLK. Fig. 86.-0vum. (Waldeyer.)