62 ELEMENTARY TISSUES. 1 •< ] neighbor; by an abrupt union, and form fasciculi and net- works (Fig. 59). The cardiac muscular tissue has a remark- ably abundant supply of blood- and lymph-vessels. THE NERVOUS TISSUES. Tissues Essential to Sensation. Fig. 59.—Cardiac mus- cular tissue, the cells uni- ted in a network. (Testut.) The nervous apparatus is conveniently considered under two heads—the central portion and the peripheral portion. The former comprises the brain and spinal cord, and is otherwise known as the cerebro-spinal axis; the latter in- cludes the cords which radiate from this axis, and also the ganglia (" knots ") upon these cords. In both the central and the peripheral regions two kinds of tissue are recog- nized, Avhich are distinguished by their color as gray and white. The white is much the more abundant in both regions, but there is a great deal more of the gray in the central than there is in the peripheral. Functionally regai'ded, the gray matter is that which receives impres- sions, retains, converts, and marshals them in various ways, and originates impulses : it is the part Avhich feels, thinks, remembers, wills ; the Avhite matter merely conveys impressions and impulses, connecting the gray matter with distant parts and associating one portion of it with another. The gray is cellular ; the white is made up of fibres. Nerves consist of fibres of this kind, grouped together in bundles of small or large size. The f/rm/ nervous tissue is composed of cells, called nerve-cells or ganglion- cells (Fig. 60). These vary greatly in shape and size in different parts, but they all have certain common features which are characteristic. They are granular, nucleated, usually pigmented, and have projections or processes whicli are called poles. At least one pole of a cell is prolonged as a nerve-fibre (Fig. 61), and thus it is seen that there is a struc- tural connection between the two kinds of nerve-tissue. The other processes of the cell—of which there may be many—radiate from its general mass, divide again and Fig. 60.—Nerve-cells. (Dalton.) Fig. 61.—Nerve cell. All of the processes are protoplas- mic except that marked a, which is the axis-cylinder pro- cess ; b indicates a clump of pigment-granules. (Gerlach.) again, and terminate in minute twigs, which mingle with, but do not become continuous with, coiTesponding ramifications from neighboring cells. These pro- cesses are called protoplasmic processes or dendrites (" tree-like "). A nerve- cell, with its dendrites, and the nerve-fibre which is continuous with the cell, constitute a neuron. The white nervous tissue (called white on account of the appearance of a mass of it) is made up of fibres which vary in diameter and length, but have their