THE BLOOD-VASCULAB SYSTE3L 398 ear. The meningeal branch becomes one of the posterior meningeal arteries, and enters the skull through the jugular foramen. The arteria princeps cervicis passes downward, and, deeply situated, divides into two sets of branches, one anastomosing with the deep cervical branch of the superior intercostal artery, the other with the superficial cervical branch of the transversalis colli. The Posterior Auricular Artery.— Griffin : from the external carotid, its poste- rior surface above the origin of the occipital. Course and termmation : it passes upward and backward beneath the parotid gland to the scalp tissue behind the ear and in front of the mastoid process, where it divides into two branches : the mastoid, supplying the scalp tissue over the mastoid process, and anastomosing with the occipital; and an auricula?^ supplying the back of the ear, and anasto- mosing with branches of the temporal. Variations.—The posterior auricular artery is sometimes a branch of the occi- pital. On the other hand, it is sometimes a vessel much larger than the occi- pital, being distributed to the region usually supplied by the occipital and temporal arteries. Surgical Anatomy.—The position of the posterior auricular should be remem- bered in the frequent operations on the mastoid ; it is, hoAvever, a small vessel and usually easily dealt witli surgically. Branches.—In addition to the two terminal branches, the auricular and mastoid already sufficiently described, the artery gives off a sfylo-mastoid branch, which enters the stylo-mastoid foramen, and supplies branches to the mastoid cells, tympanum, and internal ear. The Ascending Pharyngeal Artery.— Griffin : from the internal and posterior surface of the extei'nal carotid, within half an inch of its origin from the com- mon carotid. Course and termination : it runs upward on the side of the pharynx and, covered by the internal carotid artery, to the base of the skull. Variations.—The ascending pharyngeal is sometimes a branch of the internal carotid or common carotid. Surgical Anatomy.—In part of its course the artery is situated between the tonsil and the internal carotid, and might be injured in operations about the tonsil. Branches.—The branches of the ascending pharyngeal ai'e the prevertebral, the pharyngeal, and the meningeal. The prevertebral branches supply the ante- rior recti and the longus colli muscles, and the nerves and lymphatic nodes of this region. The pharyngeal branches supply the pharynx, tonsil, and soft palate. The meninffeal are several small vessels entering the skull through the jugular foramen, the anterior condylar foramen, and the foramen lacerum medium. The Temporal Artery.— Grigin : it is one of the terminal branches of the exter- nal carotid, and begins at a point a little below the condyle of the jaw. Course and. termincdion : it passes upAvard through the substance of the parotid gland external to the zygoma, to a point from an inch and a half to two inches above the zygoma, and here divides into the anterior and posterior temporal arteries. Variations.—The temporal artery is not frequently subject to variations from the usual type. It may be very small, and its place be taken by a large poste- rior auricular. The transverse facial may be of large size and take the place of a small facial artery. Surgical Anatomy.—From its superficial position the temporal and its terminal branches are often injured in scalp wounds ; ligation of the main trunk may be required for cirsoid aneurism. The operation can be done by an incision two inches in length, a finger's breadth in front of the ear, the centre of the inci- sion being an inch above the zygoma. The artery here is accompanied by the auriculo-temporal nerve, which should be avoided. Branches.—The branches of the temporal are its terminal branches, the ante- rior temporal and the posterior temporal, and the transverse facial, middle tempo- ral, and anterior auricular. The transverse faded (Fig. 448) is given off close to the point of origin of the temporal, passes transversely forward across the face