THE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. 512 closer relation than any other to the great ganglia at the base of the hemisphere. The insula is sometimes called gyri operti ("the covered gyres"); and the parts of the frontal and parietal lobes which overlap the insula are known as the operculum (" the cover "). The Lobes of the Mesial and Tentorial Surfaces.—The 'mesial surface of the heniispliere cannot be seen ])lainly without dividing the encephalon in the middle line, and removing the hemispheres from each other ; and the surface which con- FiG. 556.—The left insula, the overlapping parts of the hemisphere having been removed. The numerals specify the gyri. (Dalton). tinues the mesial downward (called the tentorial surface, on account of its resting in part upon the tentorium) is brought into view from the middle line by the removal of the crus and all below it. This dissection exposes a number of objects huddled together in the centre of the field, of which the largest, highest, and most conspicuous is the callosum, already mentioned as the great bond of union between the hemispheres. This displays a broad, cut surface, which forms a flat- tened arcli from the front to the back of this mid region, and under the arch ai'e gathered many structures, which, being internal, will be passed by until the study of the periphery is completed. When we look directly upon the flat, mesial surface of the hemisphere, the tentorial surface, into which the mesial runs at its lower border, TENT" slopes away from us to the lower margin of the convex. Fig. .557.-outiine of core- external surfacc, as is shown by Fig-. 557. Thus, when nal section of hemisphere, . , „ , ,. ,. , , • i n • showing slope of tentorial Viewed troui the median line the tentorial surtace is a good deal foreshortened. On the mesial surface (Fig. 558) are parts of two fissures already mentioned as appearing on the convex surface : the central, the upper end of which notches the sharp border more than half-way back ; and the parieto-occipital, which, from its small beginning on the convexity of the hemisphere, is continued over the border, and then downward and forward, joining the calcai'ine at an acute angle. The calcarine fissure (from calcar, "a spur") runs from near the rather pointed hind end of the hemisphere upward and forward, and just beyond its middle, at the point where it receives the parieto-occipital, bends downward, and terminates beneath the rear end of the callosum. Encircling the callosum is a fissure, called the callosal. Beginning below the front end of the callosum is a fissure, which runs in a curve nearly concentric with that of the callosal and also with that of the margin of the hemisphere, until a point above the hind end of the callosum is reached, at which the fissure turns, and runs upward and backward to the upper border. Its situation gives it the name calloso-marc/inal fi.ssure. Coursing in the general direction of the body of this fissure, between it and the parieto-