THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE PELVIS. 227 arm, in which the hand rotates with the radius. In the niedio-carpal joint, besides very free flexion, moderately free extension, and slight lateral motion, there is very limited rotation of the head of the os magnum and the unciform in the socket formed by the upper row, w^hile the trapezium and trapezoid glide back and forth on the scaphoid. In the central carpo-metacarpal joints flexion and extension are slight. The fifth metacarpal is capable of more flexion than are the second, third, and fourth, and this flexion is directed outward as well as forward, producing opposition, or narrowing and hollowing of the hand, as in the closed fist. The movements of the first metacarpal are regulated principally by the saddle-shape of the surfaces, and consist of flexion and extension, al)duction and adduction, and circumduction. Flexion is most free, and occurs obliquely forward and inward, thus allowing the opposing of the thumb to any of the fingers. Abduction is also very free, adduction less so. Movements between bones of the same row in the carpus are limited to slight gliding, which gives elasticity to the carpus, breaks jars and shocks, and thus strengthens the wrist. 9. Metacarpo-phalangeal and Interphalangeal Articulations. The cup-shaped bases of the proximal phalanges receive the rounded heads of the metacarpal bones to form a condyloid joint whose capsule is very weak behind, where the joint is covered by the expansion of the extensor tendons, but is reinforced laterally in front. The strong lateral ligaments are attached to the lateral tubercles and the depressions in front of them on the heads of the meta- carpal bones, and pass downward and forward to the lateral margins of the bases of the phalanges and to the palmar or glenoid ligaments. The anterior, palmar, or f/lenoid ligament is a thick fibro-cartilaginous plate, attached closely to the phalanx, loosely to the metacarpal. It is continuous laterally with the lateral ligaments and the transverse metacarpal ligament. Its palmar surface is slightly grooved for the flexor tendons, the sheaths of which are attached to its margins. Its dorsal surface helps to support the head of the metacarpal bone. In the thumb (and occasionally elsewhere) the fibro-cartilage ossifies into two sesamoid bones, receiving tlie insertion of the short muscles and forming a groove for the long flexor muscle. The interphalangeal articulations are in every way similar, except for slight differences in the shape of the articular surfaces, which influence the action. A synovial membrane lines the inner surface of the connecting ligaments of each joint. llovements.—In the metacarpo-phalangeal joint of the thumb motion is limited to flexion and extension, owing to the width of the surfaces. In tlie four other fingers abduction and adduction, in relation to the middle finger as the axis, are also quite free in the extended position. Flexion is the freest movement, owing to the greater extent of the articular facet in front and to the forward obliquity of the lateral ligaments. Flexion to a right angle and extension to a little beyond a straight line are permitted. Although abduction and adduction may occur separately, flexion and adduction and extension and abduction are associated together. The movements in the interphalangeal joints are limited to flexion and extension. Flexion is the more free for the same reason as above given, and in the proximal joint it exceeds a right angle ; in the distal joint it may be rather less. The greater freedom of the thumb is due to the motion in the carpo-metacarpal rather than in the lower joints. THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE PELVIS (Figs. 247, 248). The Articulations of the Pelvis with the Last Lumbar Vertebra. The fifth luml)ar is luiited to the first sacral vertebra by such joints and ligaments as are found between the vertebrae alcove, with the addition of two special accessory ligaments on each side, as follows : The lumbosacral ligament is