215 THE TEMPORO-MANDIBULAB ARTICULATION. down behind than in front. The two sacs commnnicate when tlie cartilage is perforated. Some fibres of the external pterygoid muscle are inserted into the cartilage in front. The accessory ligaments are—(1) the sphctio-mandibular or long internal lateral ligament, a thin band some little distance from the joint, extending from the Fig. 234.—Temporo-mandibular articulation, external view. (Testut.) spine of the sphenoid downward and a little forward to the lingula of the man- dible. Separating it from the joint and the ramus ai'e the external pterygoid muscle, the internal maxillary vessels, the inferior dental nerve and vessels, the auriculo-temporal nerve, and the middle meningeal artery. It represents the fibrous remains of a part of Meckel's cartilage. (2) The stylo-mandibular liga- ment is a specialized band of the deep cervical fascia extending from near the tip of the styloid process to the angle and the hind border of the ramus of the jaw, between the masseter and internal pterygoid muscles. It separates the submaxillary from the parotid gland. The movements in this joint are—(1) the hinge-motions of elevation aud depression, and (2) the gliding motions of protrnsion and re- traction, both («) simple and (6) oblique or grinding. The movements in the two synovial compartments are of different kinds. In the upper there is a protrusion and a retraction, or a forward and backward gliding, of the carti- lage together with the condyle on the temporal bone, due to the closer connection of the carti- lage with the condyle than with the temporal bone, and to the insertion of the external ptery- goid or protrusor muscle into both cartilage and condyle. In the lower part there is a fig. 23.5.—Temporo-mandibuiar articuia- hinge-mf)tion, on a transverse axis, between mesial view. (Testut.) the condyle and the cartilage. In opening the mouth the (1) hinge and (2(/) simple gliding motions are com- bined. When the mouth is ()[)ened l)ut .^lightly (as in talking) there is simply a