229 THE SYMPHYSIS PUBIS. tuberosity, sending its falciform process along the inner margin of the ischial ramus. The free, sharp edge of the falciform process is continuous with the poste- rior border of the ligament and with the obturator fascia. Some fibres pass over the tuberosity into the tendon of the biceps, of which this ligament represents the proximal continuation. The direction of this ligament is from above downward, outward, and slightly forward. It assists in bounding the pelvic outlet and the perineum laterally, and between it and the hip-bone is a large space subdivided by the small or anterior sacro-sciatic ligament into the e/reat sacro-sciatic foramen Fig. 248.—Articulations of the pelvis, rear view. (Testut.) above and the small sacro-sciatic foramen below. This ligament lies in front of the preceding, and is triangular in form, its wide base attached to the side of the sacrum and coccyx, its apex to the ischial spine. Its deep surface is closely con- nected with the coccygeus muscle, of which it represents the thickened sheath. Through the great sacro-sciatic foramen ])ass the pyriformis muscle, and above the muscle the gluteal vessels and superior gluteal nerve, below the muscle the sciatic and interna] pudic vessels and nerves, the inferior gluteal nerve, and the nerves to the obturator internus and quadratus femoris muscles. The small sacro-sciatic foramen is the smaller space below the small sciatic ligament. It is bounded behind by the great sacro-sciatic ligament and in front by the smooth cartilage- clad surface between the ischial spine and tuberosity, over which passes the obtu- rator internus muscle. The internal pudic vessels and nerve and the uerve to tlie obturator internus pass in through this foramen. The Symphysis Pubis. The opposed median surfaces of the pubic bones are each covered with a thin layer of hyaline cartilage, united into a single interpuhic disc by an interposed layer of fibro-cartilage. The latter is bi'oader in front and below, and bulges especially behind. It is attached to the surrounding ligaments on all sides, and often contains a cleft. This cleft or cavity is usually nearer the upper and back part, does not reach the surface, is not lined by synovial membrane, and is larger in the female, though not greatly affected by pregnancy. A fibrous capsule sur- rounds the joint, which is further strengthened by tendinous attachments. The superior and posterior ligaments are but slightly marked transverse fibres strength-