THE VULVA. 841 agrees in structure with the erectile tissues described elsewliere, and is capable of erection. The Bulbi Vestibuli (Fig. 901), or bull)s of the vagina, are two pyriform masses of erectile tissue, made up chiefly of a plexus of veins, enclosed in a thin, fibrous tunic. They are about an inch in length, and are placed one on either side of the uro-genital space, a little above the level of the nymphfe. Together they repre- sent the bulb of the corpus spongiosum in the male. They each present two surfaces, two borders, and two extremities. The inner surfaces, covered by mucous membrane, are in close relation with the orifices of the urethra and vagina; the outer are covered by the bulbo-cavernosi muscles (acceleratores urin^e in the male), which here become the constrictors of the vagina. The upper borders are attached to the superficial layer of the triangular ligament, while the lower correspond with the attached borders of the nymphje. The posterior extremities are rounded, and reach to the navicular fossa. The anterior pointed extremity of each is continued forward by means of a narrower plexus, the i^aAS intermedia, which communicates with its fellow beneath the clitoris. The pars intermedia is homologous to that portion of the corpus spongiosum, which lies between the bulb and the glans. It receives veins from the nymplue, and serves to connect the bulbs with the veins of the glans clitoridis and corpora cavernosa. When engorged the bulbi vestibuli narrow the vaginal orifice. Glands. In connection with the vulva are found : (1) the vulvo-vaginal glands ; (2) the urethral and peri-urethral glands. The Vulvo-vaginal Glands, or glands of Bartholin (Fig. 901), two in number, are situated one on either side of the vagina posteriorly, between the layers of the triangu- lar ligament. They are round or oval in outline, measuring about half an inch in their longest diameter. Their ducts run forward and in- ward to open into tlie vulval canal, one on either side, in the groove between the hymen and labia minora. They are racemose, mucous ghxnds, homologues of the glands of Cowper in the male, and their secretion lubricates the vulval canal. The Urethral Glands, fijund cliieHy l)eneath the lateral walls and floor of the urethra, vary in struct- ure from simple inversions of the mucous meml:)i'ane to racemose glands. Their openings are arranged in rows parallel with the long axis of the canal. They secrete mucus, and corre- spond morphologically with the prostatic glandular structure. Other glands found in the vestibule near to the urethra are designated peri-urethral or f/landuke vesfibulares minores, the latter to distinguish them from the glandulce vestibulares mnjnres or glands of Barthf)lin. Vessels and Nerves.—^Irtcries.—The superficial portions of the vulva are supplied by branches of the external and internal pudics; the deeper, by branches of the internal pudics alone. The clitoris and bulbi vestibuli receive branches