261 TERES 3IIAOB. Origin, the coracoid process of the scapula, outward. Insertion, the inner border of the side of the upper half of the arm Direction, downward and slightly humerus at the middle of the shaft. Action, adduction and flexion of the arm. Nerve, the musculo- cutaneous. Latissimus (Figs. 276, 277). —" The broadest muscle "—from the Latin latns, " broad." Si/no- nym, latissimus dorsi, " the broad- est of the back." Situation, in the back, from the lower half of the spine to the upper part of the arm. Origin, the spines of six or seven lower thoracic vertebra?, and, through the lumbar fascia, the spines of the lumbar and sac- ral, and the back of the outer lip of the iliac crest, the last three or four ribs, and often the lower angle of the scapula. Direction, upward, outward, and forward, converging to the insertion, the tendon twisting from above down- ward and backward, so that its front is continuous with the back of the muscle. Insertion, the floor of the bicipital groove. Ac- tion, adduction, extension, and rotation inward. Nerve, the long subscapular. The costal points of origin interlock with those of the obliquus externus abdominis. Teres Major (Figs. 278, 279).— " The greater round muscle." Situation, between scapula and upper end of arm, in hind wall of armpit. Origin, the oval sur- face on the back of the scapula at its lowerangle. Direction, up-, out-, and forward. Insertion, the inner bicipital ridge. Action, adduction, extension, and inward rotation of arm. Nerve, the lower sul)scapular. Infraspinatus (Figs. 278, 280). —" The muscle below the s])ine " of the scapula. Situation, in the infraspinous fossa and behind the head of the humerus. Origin, the inner two-thirds of the infra- spinous fossa. Direction, outward. Insertifjn, the middle facet of the great tuberosity of the humerus. Action, external rotation of the arm. Nerve, the suprascapular. Teres Minor (Figs. 278-281).—The smaller roiuid muscle." Sifuatiem, between the scapula and the upper end of the arm, in the hind wall of the arm- FiG. 277, ment-areas. -Latissimus of right side: (F. H. G.) outline and attach-