THE 3IUSCLES OF THE BACK. 327 Origin, the lower two-thirds of the nape ligament, and the spines of the seventh cervical and first and second thoracic vertebrae. Direction, upward and outward. Insertion, the mastoid process of the temporal, and the superior curved line of the occipital. Action, extension of head, and its rotation to the side on which the muscle lies. Xerve, the posterior primary branches of the middle cervical. Splenius Cervicis (Fig. 388).—" The strap-shaped muscle of the neck." Synonym, splenius colli. Situation, in the back of the neck, in front of the trape- zius. Orir/in, the spines of the third, fourth, and fifth thoracic vertebrae. Direc- tion, upward, outward, and forward. Insertion, the hind tubercles of the trans- verse processes of the upper two, three, or four cervical vertebrae. Action, extension of the neck, and its rotation to the side on which the muscle lies. JVerves, the posterior branches of the lower cervical. Muscles in the Fourth Layer of the Back. The fourth layer is formed by the erector spinae (the erector of the spine— that is, the muscle which extends it). It constitutes the greater part of the long, rounded mass, which runs parallel to the series of vertebral spinous processes, and projects so far backward that, when a view is taken of the entire back, tlie bones seem to be sunk in a valley between two mounds, instead of protruding cons])ieuously, as iu the skeleton. The Erector Spinae (Fig. 390) is a compound muscle, beginning below in a single mass, but soon dividing into three portions, which ])ass upward and end at different heights, that nearest the middle line going no further than the upper part of the thorax, the outermost passing well into the neck, and the middle reaching to the base of the skull. The second and third of these do not proceed to their respective destinations uninterruptedly, but by a series of steps, each making three. The arrangement suggests the simile of scaling a cliff: as the muscle climbs up the back, it does not relinquish one foothold until it has estab- lished a new one—it takes a fresh grip before it lets go the old ; and, as a result, there is not merely continuity of structure, but overlapping, one segment begin- ning back (sometimes far back) of the ending of the segment below it. The various portions are described as separate muscles. The name erector spinae properly includes them all; but it is often used in a restricted sense to designate the undivided mass from which these prolongations arise. Scheme of the Erector Spince. Outer ftivision : Ilio-costalis. Accessorius ad ilio-costalem. Cervicalis ascendens. Erector spinae Mid(Ue division : Longissimus dorsi. Tra nsversalis cervicis. Trachelo-mastoideus. Inner division : Spinalis dorsi. The Erector Spinae arises from the lowest two or three thoracic and all of the lumbar and sacral spines, the transverse processes of several lower thoracic ver- tebrae, the lower and back part of the sacrum, and the hind fifth of the iliac crest. From this beginning come the three divisions—the outer, the middle and the inner. ' Tile outer division starts off just below the last rib as the ilio-cosinfis (Fig. 390), so called from its connecting the ilium with certain ribs. It is also know'n