THE CEREBRUM. 517 uncinate, gyrus. The first name of the latter gyrus comes from its relation to a structure which is seen in the middle horn of the lateral ventricle ; the second refers to its hook-like distal end. But, in addition, there are included in this lobe other parts, dissimilar in appearance and errant from the structural character, which we associate with the idea of a lobe of the brain. They are the lateral half of the septum lucidum, the dentate gyrus, the fornix, the striae longitudinales of the callosum, and the peduncles of the callosum, and have been grouped with the great gyri just named on grounds of morphology and embryology, rather than from considerations based upon adult structure. In the limbic lobe are the eallosal jiasure, previously described, and the hippo- campal fissure, which marks the upper boundary of the hippocampal gyrus. Fig. 564.—Diagram to show position which fissures of mesial and tentorial surfaces would occupy if pro- jected in a horizontal plane sidewise to the outer surface. (F. H. G.) extending from the back of the splenium of the callosum into the embrace of the hook of the gyrus. Seemingly lodged in the hipjiocampal fissure is a long slender roll of gray substance, notched upon its exposed surface, and called the dentate gyrus (fascia dentata). It begins behind the splenium, receiving here the strife longitudinales of the callosum, runs to the end of the hippocampal fissure, and terminates by bending up over the uncus. Above it lies the fimbria, and between the two is a shallow cleft, called the fimbrio-dentate fissure. Relation of the Principal Lobes to the Parts of the Lateral Ventricle. The cavity of the frontal lobe is the anterior horn ; that of the parietal lobe is the body ; that of the occipital lobe is the posterior horn ; and that of the tem- jwral lobe is the middle horn (Fig. 565). Situation of the Lobes in the Cranium. The frontal rests upon the orbital plates of the frontal bone; the temporal occupies the middle fossa of the base of the skull; the occipital is supported upon the tentorium, being thus separated from the cerebellum, which fills the posterior fossa; and the parietal is held up by the subjacent cerebral structures, and is covered by the sides and vertex of the skull. The Callosum. Almost every part of the cortex of one hemisphere is connected with the cor- responding part of the other hemisphere by nerve-fibres. In and near the median