182 THE BONES. posterior inferior angle is the tuheroi^iiy, which attaches a few fibres of the internal pterygoid, and articulates along its rough internal border with the tuberosity of the palate-bone. The nasal or iydernal surface forms the outer wall of the nasal fossa in the lower and middle meatuses, and presents in front a ridge, the inferior turbinate crest, which articulates with the inferior turbinate bone. Above and behind the surface is deficient, presenting the large irregular opening into the antrum. Above this opening there are one or two half cells, which complete as many ethmoidal cells. Behind it the surface is rough for articulation with the ver- tical plate of the palate-bone, except for a smooth groove directed downward and forward from the posterior border, which is completed by the ])alate-bone into the posterior palatine canal. The posterior border is separated from the pterygoid process of the sphenoid by the tuberosity of the palate-bone. Behind the nasal process and between it and this surface notice the lachrymal groove, which descends with a backward and a slight outward inclination. This is completed into a canal for the nasal duct by the lachrymal and inferior turbinate bones, and opens below into the inferior meatus. The smooth, triangular orbital or upper surface forms the floor of the orbit and the inner part of its lower margin. Internally it articulates from before backward with the lachrymal, ethmoid, and palate bones. At the anterior end of this border is the outer part of the upper orifice of the lachrymal groove. The free, smooth, postcro-external margin bounds the spheno-maxillary fissure in front and internally, and presents about its middle the commencement of the infraorbital groove, which passes forward in the orbital surface to the canal and foramen of the same name. From the canal the middle and anterior dental canals, for nerves and vessels of the same name, run down- ward in the facial portion of the bone. The antero-external margin of this sur- face bounds the rough upper surface of the thick triangular malar process, which articulates with the malar bone. This process is continuous in front with the facial surface and behind with the zygomatic surface of the body. The nasal process is a triangular plate of bone which projects upward and slightly inward. It presents externally a smooth surface continuous with the facial surfiice of the body. The internal surface is crossed by the superior turbinate crest, which articulates with the middle turbinate bone. Above the crest it articu- lates with the ethmoid (closing its foremost cells), and below it this surface forms part of the outer nasal wall in the middle meatus. The serrated .sw/m/m?'^ articulates with the frontal, the anterior border with the nasal, and the posterior border is marked by the lachrymal groove, which lodges the lachrymal sac. The sharp inter- nal border of this groove articulates with the lachrymal bone, while the smooth external border forms the inner margin of the orbit, the point of whose junction with the lower margin is marked by the lachrymal tubercle. The alveolar process is the thick, arched lower border of the bone, which contains the alveoli (" little hollows") or tooth-sockets, corresponding in shape and number to the roots of the eight teeth which occupy them. The palate process, projecting horizontally inward from the junction of the body and the alveolar process, articulates with its fellow of the opposite side to form the forward three-fourths of the hard palate, the upper surface of which belongs to the floor of the nose, the lower to the roof of the mouth. The upper transversely concave surface is smooth, while the lower vaulted surface is rough and marked at its lateral margin with a groove for the vessels and nerves passing forward from the posterior jjalatine canal. The posterior border articulates with the horizontal plate of the palate-bone, which completes the hard palate, while the median border joins with its fellow to form, superiorly, the vertical grooved nasal crest, which receives the vomer. In front of the vomer this crest, suddenly becoming much higher, is called the incisor crest, which supports the septal cartilage of the nose, and ends in front in the nasal spine. On each side of this crest, where it joins the upper surface, is seen the incisor or Stenso7i's foramen, for the terminal branches of the posterior pal- atine arteries. These two foramina converge downward and forward, and open on the roof of the mouth into a single canal, the anterior jjalatine fossa, common