385 THE ARTERIES. Belov). Bifurcation of pulmonary artery. Left recurrent laryngeal nerve. Root of left lung. The Descending Portion of the Arch.—This is that portion of the aorta in front of the body of the iifth dorsal vertebra and the intervertebral disc above it. Relations, In front. Pleura. Root of left lung. Right side. Left side. Oesophagus. Descending portion Pleura. Thoracic duct. of arch. Behind. Body of fifth dorsal vertebra. The branches of the arch are the right and left coronary arteries, which arise from just above the anterior and left flaps of the aortic valve ; the brachio- cephalic, the left common carotid, and the left subclavian from the transverse portion of the arch. Varieties.—The position of the vessel varies. It may reach as high as the top of the sternum, or its summit may be as low as the fifth dorsal vertebra ; the failure of normal development of the aortic arches of the foetus may result in the persistence of the ductus arteriosus ; there may be pei'sistence of a septum within the vessel, dividing it into two tubes ; the jiresence of a right instead of a left aortic arch, this last being sometimes accompanied with a transposition of the viscera; the presence of a double aortic arch, one on the left, the other on the right, these passing backward, embracing the oesophagus, and uniting to form a single thoracic aorta. The number of branches given off from the transverse por- tion of the arch varies from one to six ; a single trunk may be given oflF which then divides into the great vessels of the neck and upper extremities. There may be two branches, a right and left brachio-ce])halic, or two branches, a right sub- dividing into the right subclavian, right common carotid, and left common carotid, the other branch being the left subclavian. Four vessels may be given off—right subclavian, right cai'otid, left carotid, and left subclavian ; or four vessels may exist in which the usual brachio-cephalic, the left carotid, and left subclavian are present, but in which the left vertebral arises as a separate trunk frf)ni the arch. Five vessels may exist in a case like the above in which the brachio-cephalic is absent, and where we find a right subclavian, right common carotid, left common carotid, left vertebral, and left subclavian arising as separate branches of the arch. Cases of six branches are the same as the above, except that the right ver- tebral is added as a separate trunk. The surgical anatomy is of special interest in tlie study of aneurism, which occurs more frequently in the aorta than in any other artery. The relations of the arch of the aorta to surrounding structures should be studied with reference to the effects of the pressure produced by aneurism upon them, and the resulting symptoms. Aneurism of the ascending portion of the arch may by pressure produce absorption of the costal cartilages, sternum, and ribs, and present itself as a pulsating tumor to the right of the sternum, event- ually rupturing and producing death. Aneurism of the transverse portion may produce jiressure on the resophagus, producing difficult deglutition, and simu- lating stricture of the oesophagus. Such an aneurism may also produce pressure on the trachea and bronchi, the thoracic duct, and the great veins within the 25