32 JNTR OD UCTOB Y. new substances, and discharge these last into cavities or upon surfaces. The salivary glands empty their products into the mouth ; the pancreas and the liver pour theirs into the small intestine; and these fluids—saliva, pancreatic juice^ and bile—effect certain digestive changes in the food. Organs of Internal Secretion. There are other organs which resemble true glands in their general gross appearance, but are unlike them in an important respect: they have no tubes through which their products can be discharged upon a surface or into a cavity, and hence they are called ductless glands. They are the thyroid, thymus, and suprarenal bodies. It is supposed that they furnish substances which produce a profound impression upon nutrition, and that these matters, as soon as formed, are thrown into the blood, whence the material for their formation was originally derived. Organs of Motion. Certain organs are devoted to the work of movement. Through their instru- mentality man is enabled to seize and retain his food, to defend himself from and to assail his enemies, to move about from place to place, and to do numberless other acts in which motion is the principal factor. The organs giving man such power are muscles. They form the most of the bulk of the limbs and a great part of the walls of the cavities of the trunk. The lean meat of animals, which is a part of our food, is muscular tissue. Framework Organs. All of the organs of the body are held in suitably close relation to each other, antl are yet kept from crowding together with injurious force, by certain structures which are called skeletal. The most striking and familiar of these are the bones, which form a stable framework for the various parts, a strong protec- tive wall for cavities containing organs of great delicacy, and powerful levers upon which the muscles act. Cartilages are usually closely associated with bones, but there are cases in which cartilages by themselves perform just such services as bones more commonly do. HoAvever conspicuous these hard structures may be in their peculiar line of work, it is doubtful if they are of more use in the animal economy, even in their peculiar province, than are certain soft, flexible tissues. The fibrous tissues do almost all of the minute detail of sup- port, the bones and cartilages being devoted only to the coarser kinds. All through the organs is a fine network of these tissues, furnishing a veritable skeleton for the microscopic elements of which the organs essentially consist. There are also substances which serve as stuffing and cushion-material for various parts. Organs of Relation. Of all the organs, those constituting the nervous system are the most exquisite in structure and the highest in function. They are the brain, the spinal cord, numerous small collections of nervous tissue called ganglia, and a great number of cords, the nerves, each of which has a connection at one end with some one of the nervous masses above mentioned. The nervous system gets its proper share of attention from the other organs which have been spoken of as engaged in carrying off waste, furnishing material for repair, moving parts or the whole of the body, and doing the passive service of framework. But it acts as if it recognized the great obligation resting on nobility, and it returns the devotion of its humbler neighbors by services of the most exalted order. It regulates and harmonizes the operations of all of the other parts, keeping them up to their work, restraining them if a tendency to overdoing appears, sustaining the equilibrium of all the functions. But, in