605 THE CERVICAL PLEXUS. small facial branch to the skin of the parotid, masseteric, and buccal regions. These branches join the facial nerve. TRANSVEKSE BRANCH. The Superficial Cervical Nerve, rising with the last from the second and third cervical nerves, curves round the dorsal border of the sternomastoid muscle about its middle and spreads out into branches, which ramify between the platysma and deep fascia over the carotid triangle. Its ascending branch forms one or more loops with the inframandibular branch of the facial nerve. It supplies the skin of the front of the neck from chin to sternum. DESCENDING BRANCHES. Branches from the third and fourth nerves form a large trunk, which pierces the deep fascia at the dorsal border of the sternomastoid and just below its mid- dle. This soon divides into three or four branches, which descend between the platysma and deep fascia to the skin of the sternal, clavicular, and acromial regions respectively, and are named according to that distribution. Muscular brandies to the trapezius are usually associated with this trunk. Deep Branches.—The deep branches may be conveniently divided into muscular and communicating. Muscular Branches are distributed to the rectus capitis lateralis and recti ante- riores from the loop between the first and second nerves. A branch to the sterno- mastoid from the second nerve enters the under surface of that muscle near the mastoid process, and there communicates with the spinal accessory nerve. From the second and third nerves two branches join to form the ramus ccrri- calis descendens, already described with the hypoglossal nerve. It supplies the depressors of the hyoid bone. From these nerves also twigs pass to the longus colli. The levator scapulae receives two or three branches from the third and fourth .nerves, and the scalenus medius receives branches from the same trunks. Branches to the trapezius are derived from the descending cutaneous trunk (third and fourth nerves), and tliese unite under the trapezius with the termination of the spinal accessory nerve, thus forming the snhtrapezial plexus. The phrenic nerve is the most important branch of the cervical plexus. Its most constant root is from the fourth nerve, but it may have other roots from the third or fifth, or both. Where the root from the fourth nerve is absent, it usually receives a twig from the nerve to the subclavius. In addition to these, it receives a communication from the cervical sympathetic. It takes a very constant and definite course downward and forward over the scalenus anterior, and beneath the omohyoid muscle and transversalis colli and suprascapular arteries, and, on the left side, the thoracic duct. Passing behind the subclavian vein it enters the thorax, the internal mammary artery crossing behind it to reach the sternum. On the rigid, side it now descends on the outer side of the right brachio-cephalic vein, superior cava, and pericardium in front of the root of the lung and between these structures and the pleura, to the diaphragm, which it pierces and supplies on its abdominal surface. On the left side it crosses the second part of the arch of the aorta and descends on the pericardium in front of the root of the lung to the diaphragm, being covered, of course, by pleura. Branches.—Twigs are supplied to the pleura and pericardium, and on the right side it communieates with the diaphragmatic plexus of the sympathetic, forming a small ganglion. Communicating Branches of the Cervical Plexus.—From the loop between the first and second nerves branches pass to the vagus and hypoglossal, the branch to the hypoglossal being destined for hyoid muscles. The muscular branches from the second to the sternomastoid and from the third and fourth to the trajiezius communicate with the spinal accessory ; and each nerve is connected with the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic.