THE FASCIJE. 350 course through this tissue are in some situations large and conspicuous, as on the doi\sum of the hand and foot. Other organs are located in it, of which the most notable is the mammary gland. The occasions for calling this structure other than subcutaneous areolar tissue are very infrequent; and, as the name fascia," unless limited by an adjective, is usually employed in surgical parlance to designate the deep fascia, it will be thus used in the remainder of this chapter, unless specific exception is made. THE DEEP FASCIJE. The typical deep fasciae are close sheets of fibrous tissue, in which the white variety exists in an almost unadulterated form. On account of this histological composition these fasciae are pearly white, flexible, strong, and inelastic. Their structure and physical qualities immediately bring to mind the characteristics of ligaments and tendons, which have identical structure ; and the suggestion is especially apt for the reason that some fasciae are really interosseous ligaments, and a number are properly to be regarded as tendons. Moreover, the employ- ment of the word "fascia" is ofttimes arbitrary, as, for example, in the case of the transversalis abdominis muscle, whose tendon of origin is almost always described as a layer of the lumbar fascia, and whose tendon of insertion is con- ventionally dubbed an aponeurosis, although in both situations the tendons are sheet-like ex])ansions, which serve for the ensheathing of muscles. In this connection it is interesting and useful for the student to observe anew the continuity of the fibrous membranes—ligaments, tendons, and fasciae blending with periosteum, tendons and fasciae serving as ligaments, tendons losing them- selves in fasciae, tendons of some muscles acting as fascite for other muscles, and so on. THE FASCI.ffi OF THE HEAD. A structure which may fairly be included in this group is the epicranial apo- neurosis, which has already been described in connection with the muscles of the region (page 348). The Temporal Fascia. The temporal fascia has its superior attachment on the upper temporal ridge, its inferior on both borders of the zygoma, splitting into two layers just before reaching this arch. It encloses the temporal muscle, and is partially covered by the epicranial aponeurosis, the orbicularis palpebrarum, attrahens aurem, and attolens aurem. The Masseteric Fascia. The masseteric fascia, is directly continuous with the cervical fascia. It covers the masseter muscle, and ends above at the lower border of the zygoma. In front it is in part attached to the coronoid process and in part blends with the buccinator fascia. Traced backward it is found to cover the jiarotid gland, and this portion is often called the parotid fascia. From the hind part of the last named a fibrous band is given off, connecting the angle of the lower jaw-bone with the styloid process of the temporal, the stylo-mandibular ligament. (See outer cervical fascia.) The Buccinator Fascia. The huccinator fascia covers the buccinator muscle. Above and below it is attached to the alveolar processes of the jaw-bones, behind is continuous with the masseteric fascia, and in front gradually thins out into areolar tissue.