717 THE SMALL INTESTINE. stitute a thick, circular sphincter, called the pylorus (''gate-keeper"), the side toward the stomach sloping, and that toward the bowel being abrupt. The aper- ture is the iniloric orifice (Fig. 766). The Areolar Coat, called also submucous and vascular, is loose, and its meshes are largely occupied with the vessels and nerves going to and from the coats between which it lies. The Mucous Membrane is thrown into irregular, longitudinal folds {riu/ce) when the organ is flaccid, but becomes smooth during distension. Its coriuni is mostly occupied by tubular glands, between which is fibrous tissue, containing ca])illaries and nerves ; and beneath these structures is a muscularis mucosaj, which sends some of its fibres up between these follicles. The surface ej)ithelium consists of a single layer of columnar cells, many of which are goblet. The glands are all tubular depressions of the surface, and their length is but a trifle less than the thickness of the membrane. They are of two varieties, one, the cardiac glands or proper gastric glands, being found in the large end and middle third of the stomach ; and the other, the 'pyloric r/kmds, in the region of the small end. They are arranged in little groups, which are bounded by minute elevations of the surface. The cardiac glands (Fig. 767) are simple tubular depressions, consisting of a duct, neck, and fuvdus or body. The duct is short, has a wide mouth, and is lined with columnar epithelium, a continuation of that u])on the general, free surface. Its cells overlap one another a little. In the neck the cells become short and broad. The fundus is wavy or spiral, and is furnished with two kinds of cells : the central, rather conoidal, and more numerous ; the parietal, larger, usually not reaching the SURFACE OF MUCOSA SEROUS COAT LONGITUDINAL MUSC. ■CIRCULAR MUSC LA\ P — AREOLAR COAT MUCOUS COAT Fig. 766.—Vertical section at the junction of the stomach and duodenum, Fig. 7G7.—Cardiac gland in showing the disposition of the coats. Semidiagrammatic. (Testut.) longitudinal section. (F. II. G.) bore of the tube, but communicating with it through minute cracks between the overlying central cells. The pyloric glands have a very wide and deep duct, into the bottom of which open several divisions (funduses), which are wavy or even tortuous. The epithe- lium is in all parts very similar to that on the surface of the mucosa. Between the divisions is the true corium material, and at frequent intervals are irregular masses of lymph-adenoid material. THE SMALL INTESTINE. The small intestine (intestinvm, temie) (Fig. 779) is that portion of the alimen- tary canal which begins on the distal side of the pyloric valve, and ends on the proximal side of the ileo-csecal. In other words it extends between stomach