333 THE 3IUSGLES OF THE ABDOMEN. the spermatic cord. They constitute the cremader 7miscle {" the supporting mus- cle "), and the fascia in the spaces between them is the cremasteric fascia. The Fig. 396.—External abdominal ring of right side. (Testut.j cremaster lifts the testicle. Action, the internal oblique compresses the abdominal viscera, depresses the ribs, flexes the chest upon the pelvis, and rotates it to the side on which the muscle acts. Nerves, the ilio-hypo- gastric, ilio-inguinal, and lower intercostals. Transversalis Abdominis (Fig. 397).—"The trans- verse muscle of the abdomen." Synonym, transversus abdominis. 8ifuatioii, deep in the side and front walls of the belly. Griffin, the inner surfaces of the lower six costal cartilages, the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, the anterior two-thirds of the inner lip of the iliac crest, and the outer third of the inguinal ligament. Direction, forward and inward, and in lowest part downward. Insertion, the linea alba and (by the conjoined tendon of this muscle and the internal oblique) the front of the os pubis and the neighboring part of the ilio-pectineal line. The trans- versalis at its upper origin interdigitates with the diaphragm. Between its costal and iliac regions its origin is tendinous, and lies between the erector spinte and quadratus lumborum. This tendon is otherwise known as the middle layer of the lumbar fascia, and extends from the last rib to the ilio-lumbar ligament. Action, compression of the abdominal viscera. Nerves, the lower intercostal, ilio-hypogastric, and ilio-in- guinal. The muscular fibres at the upper thii'd of the transversalis extend toward the middle line so far as to lie behind the rectus. It is well to note that the three muscles in the .side of the abdomen are attached to ribs or costal cartilages above and to iliac crest below, respectively, as follows : the outer muscle to the outer surface and outer lip, the inner muscle to the inner surface and inner lip, the mid- dle muscle to the middle surface (the border) and the middle lip. The obliquity Fig. 397.—Transversalis ab- dominis of right side. (Testut.)