THE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. 510 covering, like the bark (cortex) of a tree. In the young fcetus this cortex is smooth and uncreased (Fig. 553); but, as months go by, it becomes wrinkled, narx'ow depressions occurring all over it, and getting deeper and more numerous with its development (Fig. 55-1). These creases are infoldings of the cortex ; and, consequently, the more numerous and the deeper they are the greater is the amount of the peripheral gray substance. They are called fissures, or sulci. To the uncritical eye they seem to be nearly or quite without system in their arrange- ment, and they give the cerebrum an appearance not inaptly compared to that of the mass of small intestines, which is seen when the abdomen is laid open and the omentum is lifted off. This coiled look has given the parts between the fissures the name of convolutions, or, ,,--^^3#WfPlfc\\fc.. better, gyri (Anglicized into " gyres "). Though at first glance apparently dis- posed without order, the fissures and CEREBELLUM — OLFACTORY LOBE Fig. 553.—Brain of six-months' iiuman embryo, natural size. (Kolliker.) Via. 5."i4.—Cerebrum of eight-months' human embryo, left side. The insula is nearly covered in. (Testut.) gyri have been discovered to be for the most part so constant and regular that they have received names intended to be descriptive of their location or shape. They are similar on the two sides, but not identical, and are subject to considerable variations in diiferent individuals. But before giving further consideration to the gyri and the fissures separating them, it is important to notice a few clefts which make larger divisions. The Longitudinal Fissure.—The two hemispheres are separated by the great longitudinal fissure. This goes through from top to bottom of the cerebrum in front and behind ; but for the middle two-fourths or more of its antero-posterior length it is stopped when half-way down by the chief of the bands or commissures which connect the hemispheres, namely, the callosum (corpus callosum). All of the other fissures are found alike in each hemisphere, except the transverse, which is half in one hemisphere and half in the other. The Sylvian Fissure.—Inspecting the hemisphere from the side or from below, the most pronounced peculiarity of its form is seen to be due to the presence of a cleft, which starts near the centre of the base (at the anterior perforated space), and, going upward and backward, cuts so deeply as to mark off very conspicu- ously a large mass from the middle portion of the hemisphere at its lowest part. This fissure is the Sylvian (fissura. Syhiana) (Figs. 554, 555, 559). The greatest part of the undivided fissure is plainly seen only on the base of the hemisphere, but its divisions are visible only from the side. A little of the fissure proper shows laterally, but it divides immediately into anterior and posterior limbs, the former subdividing into two short branches, ascending and horizontal. The poste- rior limb courses backward and a little upward, ending with a decidedly upward inclination at about two-thirds of the distance from the front to the back of the hemisphere, and half-way between summit and base. The Central Fissure.—In the middle region of the lateral surface above the Sylvian fissure is the central fissure (Rolandic) (Fig. 555), extending in an undulating course from the longitudinal fissure forward and downward almost (or quite) to the Sylvian. It begins behind the half-way point between front and