THE PENIS. 817 nutntive and functional The former supplies the histological elements, breaking up into capillaries, which merge into veins in the ordinary way. The latter, according to Eckhard, forms bouquets of short terminal branches, which open into the areolae by means of small orifices. These orifices are sur- rounded by elastic tissue, which keep them closed when the penis is flaccid. Small convoluted twigs, called helicine arteries, are some- times seen projecting into the areolae. The veins (Fig. 885) from the envelops and the prepuce converge toward the dorsum of the organ, where they form a common canal, the superficial dorsal vein, which follows the median line, lying in the areolar layer beneath the dartos, and ends in the external pudic and obturator veins. The veins from the corpus s])ongiosum emerge along its whole length. Those from the glans pass backward to the excava- tion at its base, where they form the deep dorsal vein, which runs beneath the fascial sheath, in the superior groove formed by the cavernous bodies, and perforates the triangu- lar ligament to end in the prostatic plexus. Those from the l)ody and bulb terminate in the same plexus or in the internal pudic veins. Small venous branches from the cavernous bodies emerge from l)oth the superior and inferior surfaces ; the former pass directly into the deep dorsal vein, the latter terminate in the same vessel after first encircling these bodies. The princi])ul efferent trunk, however, comes from the posterior extremity of the cavernous body and perforates the triangular ligament to end in the prostatic plexus or the internal pudic veins. The li/mphatics from the prepuce and envelops form a single su]:)erficial dorsal trunk, which accompanies the vein of the same name, and, dividing at the root of the penis into right and left branches, terminates in the super- ficial inguinal nodes. The deep lymphatics take origin in the erec- tile structures. In the glans they communicate freely with the lym- phatics of the urethra. Behind the glans they form a trunk, which fol- lows the deep dorsal vein, and ends in the internal iliac nodes. Nerves.—The coverings of the penis receive their nerve-supply from the genital branch of the genito- crural, and from the inferior perineal branch of the internal pudic. The erectile structures receive sympathetic branches from the hypogastric plexus, and spinal branches from the dorsal nerve of the penis and the superficial perineal. SUPERFICIAL DORSAL VEIN EXTERNAL PUDIC VEIN OBTURATOR VEIN Fig. 885.—Veins of the penis. (Testut.) SUPERFICIAL DOR- SAL VEIN DORSAL ARTERY i .DEEP DORSAL VEIN CORPUS CAVERNOSUM AREOLAR TISSUE BULBO-CAVERNOUS ARTERY/ ,_ —ANTERIOR BRANCH 1 URETHRA CORPUS SPONGIOSUM Fig. 886.—The penis in transverse section, showing the blood-vessels. (Testut.)