804 THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. The visceral layer is intimately adherent to the tunica albuginea of the testicle proper, except along the posterior border of the gland, where the epididymis is attached, and where the vessels and nerves enter or emerge. It also invests the globus major, lines the digital fossa, and covers the external border and posterior surface of the body of the epididymis, but leaves uncovered almost the whole of the globus minor. The parietal layer, of greater extent than the visceral, lines the infundib- uliform fascia, to which it is loosely attached by a prolongation of the sub- peritoneal tissue. It also covers the spermatic cord for a short distance above the testicle, extending somewhat higher on the inner than on the outer side. At the posterior border of the gland the two layers are, of course, continuous. The inner surface of the tunica vaginalis is lined by a layer of epithelial cells, and the membrane secretes enough fluid to moisten the apposed surfaces. Minute Structure of the Testicle.—Structurally the testicle consists of the -fol- lowing parts : (1) a fibrous covering, the tunica albuginea, from which is derived a framework ; (2) the tubuli seminiferi ; (3) certain excretory canals ; (4) inter- stitial tissue. The Tunica Albuginea ("whitish coat") is a dense, white, fibrous, inelastic capsule, about one-sixteenth of an inch in thickness. Its inner surface reposes on the parenchyma of the testicle ; its outer is covered by the visceral layer of the tunica vaginalis. Behind, where the tunica albuginea covers the posterior border of the testicle, it becomes immensely thickened forming a cone-shaped body, the corpus Highmoriammi or mediastinum testis (" standing in the middle of the testis "), Avhich pi'ojects forward a varying distance into the mass of the gland. This body approaches a little nearer to the upper than to the lower extremity of the testicle, lies closer to the internal than t<^ the external surface of that organ, and is tunnelled by the larger blood-vessels and a network of ducts, the rete (" net") testis. By its summit and lateral faces the mediastinum gives origin to a system of thin laminae and slender trabeculte, which radiate to become attached to the inner surface of the tunica albuginea, thus divid- ing the testicle into a varying number (150 to 300) of small pyramidal spaces, called loculi (" little places"). In these cavities are lodged the seminiferous canals and the interstitial tissue. The visceral sui'face of the tunica albuginea and its trabeculse is covered by a network of minute blood-vessels, connected with the spermatic blood-vessels, and called the tunica vasGulosa. Histologically the tunica albuginea is composed of bundles of white fibrous tissue, which interlace in every direction, mingled with a small number of fine elastic fibres. The Tubuli Seminiferi (" seed-bearing tubules"), or seminiferous canals, produce the spermatozoa (Fig. 872), and hence form the essential structure of the testicle. They occu])y the loculi, and are by the lat- ter divided into a corresponding number (150 to 300) of more or less distinct masses, called lobules. These, like their containing loculi, are pyramidal, their bases corresponding to the inner surface of the albuginea, their apices resting on the mediastinum. They each contain two or more seminiferous tubes, making of the latter from five to nine hundred for each testicle. The tubes vary in diameter from yi-g to y|-g- of an inch, and are so flexuous that, when uncoiled, their length is increased twenty to thirty times (over two feet). They begin near the bases of the lobules by blind extremities. In their course toward the mediastinum thev give ofP two or three csecal diverticula, and TAIL _ PROPER AXIAL FILAMENT TERMINAL SEGMENT Fig. 872.—Human spermatozoa The right one is seen iu profile, (Testut!)