117 THE THORACIC GROUP. in two or give them a kidney-shaped outline. The inferior articular processes, or the facets on the under surface of the lateral masses, are nearly flat and circular, looking downward aud slightly inward. Their articulation with the axis permits the rotatory movements of the head. On the inner surface of each lateral mass, between the two articular processes, is a tubercle for the transverse ligament, which divides the interior of the ring into a smaller ventral segment for the odontoid process and a larger dorsal segment, the spinal foramen, for the spinal cord. The transverse processes are long, serve for the leverage of the rotator muscles of the head, and are to be felt below the mastoid process of the temporal bone. The foramen in them is large, their costal processes are slender, and their extremities broad and not bifid. Tlie axis or second vertebra {vertebra fJenteda, "toothed vertebra") (Figs. 135, 136) has a large, strong body, surmounted by the odontoid {" tooth-like") process, INFERIOR ARTICU- TRANSVERSE LAR PROCESS. PROCESS. Fig. 135.—The axis, front view. (Testut.) Fig. 136.—The axis, its right side. (Testut.) on which as a pivot the atlas rotates, carrying with it the head. This process has in front a smooth surface for articulation with the atlas, and behind, at a slightly lower level, a smooth groove, which forms a constriction, the neck, and receives the transverse ligament. The lower surface of the body is like that of the typical cervical vertebra, except that the overlajiping lip is more prominent. In front the body presents a vertical median ridge and two lateral depressions. The pedicles are stout, and partly on them, partly on the body, rest the oval superior articular surfaces, close to the base of the odontoid process, and directed upward and slightly outward. The weight of the head is transmitted to these surfaces through the lateral masses of the atlas, and from them it passes largely to the body and less to the inferior articular processes of the axis through a strong arch, the piers of which are the body and inferior articular processes. From this point down the weight is borne mostly by the bodies. The inferior articular processes resemble those below in foi'm, position, and direction. The spinous process is strong, deeply bifid, and grooved below. It attaches muscles which rotate the head. The transverse processes are short. The costal processes are thick at their bases, and the anterior tubercles are very rudimentary. The foramina for the vertebral arteries are directed obliquely upward and outward toward those in the atlas. The seventh cervical vertebra is called the vertebra jn'ominens, from the length of its spinous process, which is a landmark readily felt beneath the skin. This is not bifid, and it attaches the ligamentum nuchte. The costal processes and their anterior tubercles are small, but sometimes are larger and segmented off as cervical ribs. The costo-transverse foramen is small. The transverse processes are large. The s])inous process of the sixth cervical vertebra, is occasionally so long as to be mistaken for that of the seventh, and the anterior tubercle of its transverse process is called the carotid tubercle, as against it the carotid artery may be compressed. THE THORACIC GROUP. The thoracic vertebrce. (Figs. 137-139) are typically characterized by the pres- ence of articular facets on the bodies and transverse pi'ocesses, for articulation with the ribs which they support. The disc-like body, or centrum, is oval or