THE VEINS. 455 The pulmonary veins are but little larger than the arteries they accompany. The right superior pulmonary vein commonly receives the vein from the middle lobe of the right lung, l)ut sometimes the latter continues to the auricle separately as a third vein. The two pulmonary veins, on a side, more often on the left, sometimes unite, and terminate in a single trunk. THE SYSTEMIC VEINS. These convey the blood from the capillary plexuses of the rest of the body to the right auricle of the heart, which most of the veins of the heart enter by the coronary sinus, and the veins of the remainder of the body by the superior and inferior vense cavse. They differ from the arteries in their larger capacity, their greater number, their thinner walls, their larger and frequent anastomoses, and the occasional presence of more or less perfect valves, which prevent backward cir- culation. The veins from the stomach, intestines, spleen, and pancreas differ from the others in that, after joining to form a single trunk, the portal vein, the latter breaks up in the substance of the liver into a capillary network, from which the blood is collected by the hepatic veins, and emptied into the inferior vena cava. The veins may be divided into two sets, the superficial and the deep, between which are frequent communications. The superficial or subcutaneous veins lie between the layers of the su])erficial fascia, and do not usually accompany an artery. The deejj veins usually accompany the arteries, sometimes as a single trunk, as with the larger arteries (axillary, femoral, etc.), sometimes as a fre- quently anastomosing pair, the vence comites, one on either side of the smaller arteries (radial, tibial, etc.). The venous sinuses of the cranium differ from the veins in distribution and in structure, being formed by a separation of the two layers of the dura, and lined by epithelium. In the following pages a detailed description is necessary only for those veins which do not accompany an artery. The systemic veins are naturally divided into three groups, according as they em])ty into the heart through the superior or the inferior vena cava, or the coronary sinus. THE VEINS OF THE HEART. The cardiac or coronary veins (Fig. 491), which return the blood from the substance of the heart, accompany the arteries, but have not an exactly similar course, as the arteries start in front, while the veins empty into the coronary sinus behind. The Coronary Sinus is situated in the dorsal part of the groove between the left auricle and ventricle. About an inch in length, it is covered by the muscular fibi'es of the auricles, and its termination in the right auricle, between the open- ing of the inferior vena cava and the auriculo-ventricular aperture, is guarded by the coronary or Thebesian valve. Where the cardiac veins (^excepting the oblique vein) join the coronary sinus they are guarded by valves, which are wanting in the rest of their course. The oblique vein of Marshall, which runs over the l)ack part of the left auricle in the vestigial fold of the pericardium, enters the left extremity of the sinus without a valve. The oblique vein with the coronary sinus represents the left superior vena cava, or the left duct of Cuvier and part of the sinus venosus of the fcetus. This vein is often represented in great part by a fibrous cord. The Great Cardiac Vein (anterior coronary vein) ascends from near the apex of the heart iji the ventral interventricular groove to the auriculo-ventricular groove, in which it turns to tlie left and passes backward to terminate in the left end of the coronary sinus, which appears as the dilated continuation of this vein.