86 EMBRYOLOGY. the branchial clefts disappear or are modified into special structures not seen from the exterior, the features are gradually developed, the neck-flexure straightens out, and by about the third month of development the embryo has acquired a distinctly human appearance. It will now, after this sketch of the formation of the embryo, be convenient to consider the development of the more important organs of the body, and these may be grouped according to the germ-layers from A\ hich they are' principally formed. For convenience the development of the organs derived from the endoderm will first be considered. FRONTO-NASAL PROCESS. OLFACTORY. PIT. .MAXILLARY PROCESS. ORGANS DERIVED FROM THE ENDODERM. At the stage with which the description of the formation of the germ-layers ended the endoderm formed a tube closed at either end, and having connected with it two outgrowths, the umbilical stalk and the allantois. An examination of the surface of the embryo at this stage will show a pentagonal depres- sion opposite the anterior end of the endodermal tube (Fig. 99). This de- pression is the oral sinus, or stomo- dcenvi, and it is bounded in front by the edge of a median fold of tissue known as the fronto-nasal process, while on either side is a >-shaped ridge, the anterior limb of each ridge being termed the maxillary, and the posterior the mandibular process. The thin partition which forms the floor of the oral sinus soon ruptures, and the endodermal tube is thus placed in communication with the exterior, its endodei'm becoming continuous with the ectodei^m of the sinus. Soon after the mouth is thus formed the two maxillary ridges, growing toward each other, meet beneath the fronto-nasal process, and, in the connective tissue which they contain, the maxillary bones develop. From each of these bones a horizontal lamella grows inward, and meets with its fellow of the opposite side and with correspond- ing lamellae from the palatine bones behind, and the hard palate is thus formed, separating the original mouth-cavity into an upper or nasal and a lower or oral portion, these two cavities communicating behind with the upper or pharyngeal part of the intestinal tube. Fig. 99.—Development of the face. (Testut.) The Teeth and Salivary Glands. As early as the sixth week of development there appears, dipping into the lower and upper surfaces respectively of the maxillary and mandibular processes, a thickening of the ectoderm, whose cells subsequently arrange themselves into an anterior and posterior layer, the space which appears between these layers becoming the groove between the lip and tlie gum (Fig. 100). Fi'om the poste- rior layer a horizontal ridge grows inward into tlie substance of each gum, forming the dental shelf, and upon the under or upper surface of each shelf ten thickenings arise, each of which forms a more or less globular mass of cells, the enamel organ, connected with the dental shelf only by a narrow neck which ulti- mately disappears. In the mesoderm beneath each organ a rapid proliferation of cells forms a papilla, over which the enamel organ is folded like a cn]i, those cells of the papilla which are in contact 'with tlie enamel organ becoming, like the outer- most cells of the latter, cylindrical, and forming the odontoblasts, whose office it is to deposit the dentine between themselves and the enamel organ. This they begin to do at about the end of the fourth month of develoj^ment, and at about the same