THE EYE. 689 THE MEDIA. As already stated, the vitreous body, the lens, and the aqueous humor com- pletely fill the cavity of the eyeball. The aqueous is perfectly fluid, the vitreous semi-fluid, and the lens solid. All are transparent and colorless. THE VITREOUS. The vitreous ("glassy"), also called "vitreous humor" and "vitreous body" (Fig. 731), fills the posterior four-fifths of the globe. It is enclosed in a thin, hyaloid membrane, which has some attachment to the retina at the porus opticus, and furnishes a suspensory ligament to the lens. Elsewhere it is perfectly separable from its surroundings. Through the centre of the vitreous body a canal, lined by a tube of the hyaloid membrane, runs from the porus opticus to the back of the lens, where it ends blindly. It marks the course of a vessel, which, in the foetus, passed from the central artery of the retina to the capsule of the lens. It is known as the canal of Stilling. Beyond the ora serrata the sur- face of the vitreous body is grooved by the ciliary processes, while, anteriorly, it presents a deep concavity, the fossa patellaris, for the posterior convexity of the lens. Subjacent to the ciliary zone the hyaloid becomes thick and fibrous, and adheres closely to the pars ciliaris retinae. Here it splits, giving off from its under surface the true hyaloid, which is continued over the fossa patellaris, while the outer fibrous portion, the zonula of Zinn, stretches inward and forward as a distinct membrane to gain attachment to the capsule of the lens a little in front of its equator. Some scattered bundles from the zonula are attached at the equator and some on the posterior surface also. The free portion of the zonula between the ciliary processes and the lens-capsule constitutes the suspensory liga- ment of the Ions. A space around the circumference of the lens, bounded by the suspensory ligament in front and by the vitreous (covered by hyaloid) behind, is the canal of Petit. It is filled with fluid, which may reach it from the aqueous chamber through extremely fine clefts, which have been demonstrated in the suspensory ligament. THE LENS. The lens (Fig. 731) is a biconvex body occupying the fossa patellaris in front of the vitreous. Its anterior surface looks toward the aqueous chamber, and is in light contact with the pupillary margin of the iris. The circumference or equator all round looks toward the ciliary processes. In this position the lens is safely anchored by the suspensory ligament already described. The posterior surface is considerably more curved than the anterior, and the curvature of each varies with the period of life. In the fcetiis, the lens is almost spherical; in the adult, of mediiun convexity ; and in the aged, considerably flattened. Besides this the curvature is constantly changing for near or distant accommodation. The lens is inclosed in a structureless, elastic, non-vascular capsule, which is much thicker in front than behind. When ruptured or cut through, this mem- brane shows a tendency to curl outward away from the lens. The lenticular sub- stance immediately beneath the capsule is soft and gelatinous, but deeper it becomes hard and firm. The central hard core is sometimes called the tmcleus of the lens, while the outer soft part is known as the cortex. THE AQUEOUS. The aqueous humor is a watery fluid, occupying the space which is bounded by the cornea in front and by the lens, suspensory ligament ;ind ciliary body behind. This space is known as the aep/eous cJiamber (Fig. 731). The iris partially divides 44