777 THE URINARY SYSTEM. By F. H. GERRISH. THE clonl)le function of appropriaUon and elimination belongs both to the ali- mentary and to the respiratory systems, each being concerned in the supply of new material, and also in the casting ott" of effete substances. But the urinary system is simply excretory : its only office is relieving the body of certain waste products, which, if allowed to remain in it, would injure the organism, and ulti- mately destroy life. The organs of the urinary system are the two kidnci/x, which form the urine from materials furnished by the blood ; the ureters, ducts whicli convey the urine away from the kidneys ; the bhuhler, a reservoir in which the urine is stored until circumstances arc convenient for its discharge ; and the urethra, a tube through which the urine passes from the bladder, and is finally voided. THE KIDNEYS. The essential organs of the urinary system are the kidneys. The materials which they abstract from the blood are in solution in water, and this solution is the urine. The formation of this fluid is constant; and, as fast as it is produced, it is conducted to the bladder. In some details of gi'oss anatomy the two kid- neys (litter slightly, as will be related subsequently ; but functionally they are identical, and the physiologieal anatomy of one is exactly like that of the other. A kidney is a compound, tubular gland—a vast multitude of microsco])ic tubes, all lined with epithelial cells, and abundantly supplied with blood-vessels. The study of a single one of these tubes reveals the physiological anatomv of the kidney, and with that it is best to begin. A uriniferous tube starts as a hollow globe (the capsule) ; then come in regular succession a constricted part (the neck), a tortuous (the proximal convoluted tube), an undulating and twisted (the spiral tube), a long portion bent so abruptly near its mitldle that the two parts are parallel (the looped tube), a jwrtion with a zig- zag contour, full of short lines and marked angles (the irregular tube), a second tortuous part (the distal convoluted tube), a short, arching part (the junctional or arched collecting tube), and, finally, a long portion (the straight collecting tube), the wide, terminal part of which is called the excretory tube.' Tlie various parts of this long tube differ not only in shape and direction but in diameter. All of these features will be seen in the part of Fig. 846, at the extreme left. Structure of a Uriniferous Tube.—The tube is composed of a basement mem- brane and a single layer of epithelial cells, which rest upon it and vary in form according to their situation. In most narrow portions of the tube and in the capsule they are flattened ; in the neck and collecting tubes they are cuboidal or columnar ; and elsewhere they are somewhat cuboidal and granular toward the * The capsule is called nho the capsule of Bowman, the looped tube is known as Henle's, tlie irregular bears the name of Schachowa, and the excretory is known as the duct of Bellini.