686 THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. RADIATING VESSELS OF IRIS Near the pupillary border of the iris there lies embedded in the stroma a cir- cular band of smooth muscle-fibres, the sphincter iridis, whose action contracts the pupil. On the deep surface of the sphinc- ter is a membrane formed of straight fibres, stretching from the circumference of the iris to the sphincter. Whether these are muscle- fibres or merely elastic is still unsettled, but the view prevails that they cause dilatation of the pupil. Vessels and Nerves of the Iris.—The two lo7i(/ ci/iart/ arteries run forward along the outer and inner aspects of the globe, between the sclerotic and choroid, to the attached border of the iris. Here each divides into a superior and an inferior branch, which, by anas- tomosing with one another and with the an- terior ciliary arteries (from the muscular branches of the ophthalmic), form a vascidar ring in this situation, the circulm major iridis. From this branches are given otf, which con- verge toward the pupil, where, by dividing and anastomosing, they form the eirculus minor iridis. The arrangement of the veins corresponds to that of the arteries. They communicate with the sinus in the canal of Schlemm. The ciliary nerves, after furnishing a gang- liated plexus to the vessels of the choroid, enter the ciliary muscle, where they form another plexus. From this latter filaments pass into the iris, where they follow the course of the blood-vessels, finally ending in the sphincter iridis. Fig. 735.—Segment of the iris, ciliary body, and elioroid, view from the internal surface. (Testut.) THE INNER OR NERVOUS TUNIC. The Retina (Fig. 736) constitutes the innermost coat of the ocular wall. It is everywhere in close contact with the uveal tunic. Developmeutally it is laid UPPER TEMPORAL BRANCH OF ART. CENTR. RET. SCLEROTIC CHOROID \ ..RETINA TEMPORAL SIDE UPPER NASAL — BRANCH OF ART. CENTR. RET. NASAL SIDE Fig. 736.—Retina of the right eye, front view, opticus at the right of it. (Te'stut.) The macula lutea is seen in the middle, and the porus