678 THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. and beyond this it descends. Its floor is longer than its roof on acconnt of the obliquity of the position of the membrana tympani. The mesial portion has a basis of bone, its peripheral, one of yellow fibro- cartilage, pieced out with fibrous tissue. The flexibility of the latter portion renders it practicable to make the meatus nearly straight by pulling the pinna (with which it is continuous) upward and backward. The meatus is lined throughout with shin. In the cartilaginous part and the adjacent portion of the osseous there is a great number of glands, which struct- urally are identical with ordinary sweat-glands, only larger; but, instead of secreting perspiration, they form cerumen, commonly called " ear-wax "—a substance thought to be offensive to insects, and, conse- quently, a defence against their intrusion. The glands are called ceruminous. Near the outer end of the tube are many short hairs and seba- ceous glands. The skin which clothes the mem- brana tympani is very delicate, and is free from hairs and glands. The Pinna (Fig. 729) is of irregularly oval shape, and is an abrupt expansion of the meatus. Its central portion is shell-like in form, and hence is called the concha. Beginning near the middle of the concha is a ridge, which runs forward and upward to the front margin of the pinna, whence it continues around nearly to its lowest part, forming a prominent rim, called the helix (" coil"). The rim of the concha itself begins at its front and lower part in a prominent tubercle, the antitragus (" opposite the tragus "), and runs backward, then upward, and lastly forward, dividing at the junction of its hind and upper parts into two branches, which enclose a triangular hollow. This margin of the concha is the antihelix {" opposite the helix "), and the area embraced by its division is the fossa of the antihelix. Between the antihelix and the helix is the fossa of the helix, overlapped by the incurved lip of the helix. In front, between the origins of the helix and antihelix, is a backward projecting plate, which covers the orifice of the meatus at a little distance, and is called the tragus. The lowest portion of the pinna is a flat, soft, pendulous body, the lobule. All portions of the pinna, except the lobule, are composed almost entirely of yellow f bro-cartilage, which is continuous with that in the peripheral part of the meatus, and clothed with sJdn. Except upon the convexity of the helix, the skin is very thin and closely adherent to the cartilage. The lobule has no carti- lage, and is merely a bag of skin, containing areolar and adipose tissues. The pinna is attached to the cranium by ligaments which run forward to the root of the zygoma and backward to the mastoid process. The shape of the pinna is practically the same all through life, changing less than that of any other feature ; and, as no two ears are exactly alike, the recog- nition of this maintenance of the characteristic peculiarities of each individual ear has established what is probably the surest method of physical identification. Muscles.—Half a dozen muscles, called intrinsic, connect different parts of the pinna with one another. But, as they are all rudimentary in man, are, indeed, often impossible of demonstration, and never of any practical importance, they will receive no further attention. There are three extrinsic muscles (Fig. 407) which require mention, though almost always imperfectly developed and incapable of action. Occasionally, however, there is an individual, who possesses in a measure the ancestral capacity of moving his ears voluntarily. The attollens aurem (" lifting the ear ") or auricularis superior, the largest of the trio, arises from the lower border of the epicranial fascia, narrows as it Fig. 729.—Right pinna. (Testut.)