THE BLOOD-VASCULAB SYSTE3L 464 margin of the falx cerebri, increasing constantly in size, from the foramen csecnm in front to the internal occipital protuberance behind, where, turning sharply to one side, usually the right, it is continuous with the lateral sinus. Its triangular lumen is crossed by a number of fibrous bands (the cords of Willis), and pro- jecting into it at intervals are the Pacchioniaii bodies. It receives the superior cerebral veins, which enter it mostly from behind forward (/. e., against the blood- stream). It often communicates through the parietal foramen with the temporal veins of the scalp, and regularly in early life through the foramen caecum with the veins of the nose. On approaching the internal occijiital protuberance it inclines slightly to the side to which it bends, and presents a dilatation, the torcu- lar Herophili (" the wine-press of Herophilus "), which is lodged in a depression on the side of the internal occipital protuberance. The torcular usually receives the occipital sinus, and gives a cross-branch to the straight sinus, where the latter bends into the opposite lateral sinus. The Inferior Longitudinal Sinus is a small vessel of cylindrical form, which occupies the hind half or more of the lower border of the falx cerebri. It receives some branches from the falx and the median surface of the brain, and terminates in the straight sinus. The Straight Sinus, triangular on section, extends downward and backward along the line of junction of the falx cerebri and the tentorium cerebelli, to the internal occipital protuberance, where it bends sharply to the side, usually to the VEIN Fig. 496.—Sinuses of the dura, left lateral view. (Testut.) left, and is continued into the lateral sinus, beiug connected by a cross-branch with the torcular. It is formed in front, at the margin of the tentorium, by the union of the inferior longitudinal sinus with the great vein of Galen from the interior of the brain. The Lateral Sinuses commence at the internal occipital protuberance, and end at the jugular foramina in the bulbs or sinuses \vhich are continuous with the internal