249 NAMES OF MOVEMENTS PRODUCED. segments of the upper limb, are descriptive of the action of these muscles, and nearly two-thirds of these convey some additional information—of form, situa- tion, or size. The majority of the names of the other half of this group indicate position, and the residue call attention to some characteristic of shape or resem- blance. From this it Avill be seen that the names are not arbitrary, but are designed to be descriptive, and, consequently, are helpful in the first learning and in the permanent retention of the facts. The Latin word mmculm (" muscle") is always implied in the name of a muscle, and the part which is expressed is either an adjective or a noun in appo- sition, with or without limiting words. Reasons for the Names of Muscles.—Muscles are named from various con- siderations, and occasionally more than one of these is appealed to in the selection of a name. It is noticeable that the names of individuals are not used in the nomenclature of muscles, as they are in almost every other branch of anatomy. The following are the principal derivations of the names of muscles : 1, action or supposed action, as levator scapulfe, " the lifter of the shoulder-blade," supi- nator, "the muscle producing supination"—turning the part onto its back; 2, form, as gracilis, "the slender muscle," serratus, "the saw-toothed muscle;" 3, the form of tivo musdcs symmetrically located on opposite sides of the body, as trapezius, " the table-like muscle," though each trapezius is not trapezoid but triangular ; 4, resemblance to a natural object, as lumbricalis, " the earthworm muscle," soleus, "the sole-fish muscle;" 5, situation, as frontalis, " the forehead muscle," subclavius, " the muscle under the collar-bone ;" 6, attachments, as coraco- brachialis, " the muscle connecting the coraeoid process and the arm," brachio- radialis, " the muscle connecting the arm and the radius ;" 7, size, either absolute, as vastus, " the great muscle," or comparative, as latissimus, " the broadest mus- cle;" 8, diviiiion, as quadriceps, "the four-headed muscle," multifidus, "the muscle of many clefts;" 9, paired condition, as gemellus, " the twin muscle ;" 10, supposed singleness, as azygos uvulfe, " the uvula muscle not yoked to a mate ;" 11, involvement of structure, as complexus, " the complicated muscle ; " 12, direction of fibres, as rectus, " the straight muscle," transversalis, " the transverse muscle ;" 13, relative proportion of contractile and non-contractile tissues, as semimembranosus, "the half-membrane muscle," semitendinosus, "the half-tendon muscle;" 14, existence of a tendon midway between two contractile portions, as digastric and biventer, "the muscles with two bellies;" 15, occupation in which the muscle is thought to be useful, as sartorius, " the tailor's muscle," buccinator, " the trumpeter's muscle;" 16, expression produced, as risorius, " the laughing mus- cle ;" 17, the subordinate character of the ivork done, as accessorius, "the assistant muscle." Names of Movements Produced.—Most of the movements of the parts upon Avhich muscles act have received specific names, some of which are applied also to the attitudes resulting from these movements. When one part is bent upon another, the movement is called flexion (" a bending") ; when the part is straightened out, the action is extension (" a stretching"); and thus flexion and extension are antagonistic actions and attitudes. The moving of a part further away from the middle line (the median plane of the whole body being meant, imless otherwise specified) is abduction (" a drawing from "); the opposite move- ment, by which the part is restored to its former position, is adduction (" a draw- ing to"). The slight difference between these antipodal words should be noted —the one begins with ab, the Latin for " from," the other with ad, the Latin for " to." When a part is made to revolve upon its long axis, the movement is rota- tion, ("a revolving"); and when its lower extremity is caused to describe a circle, and the part itself thus traverses the periphery of a cone, the action is cir- cumduction (" a drawing around "). The movement which turns a part onto its face is pronation ("a bending forward "), and the reverse is supjination (" lying on the back").