124 THE BONES. CERVICAL VERTEBRAE THORACIC VERTEBRJC bodies steadily increases from above dovvnwaixl to the sacrum. The bodies are widest in the cervical and lumbar regions, where motion is most free. The rear view presents in the middle line the series of spines, nearly hori- zontal and about opposite the corre- sponding bodies in the cervical and lumbar regions, thus allowing free motion. The spines of the upper cer- vical vertebrae are not readily felt in the living body until we reach the seventh, or sometimes the sixth, spine. The upper thoracic spines are easily felt as subcutaneous, the lower thoi'acic and lumbar less so, for they lie in the deep spinal furroiv bounded by the masses of muscles which occupy the vertebral grooves. At the sides of the spines are the vertebral grooves, bounded externally by a row of transverse processes. The floor of these grooves is formed by the laminae, connected by the ligamenta subflava, and by the articular pro- cesses with the mam miliary processes in the lower part of the spine. The spinal canal is large and triangular in the cervical and lumbar regions, smaller and round in the thoracic region, and still smaller and flattened in the saci'al region. The weakest point in the spine is found between the second and third cervical vertebne, but the union of the thoracic and lumbar curves, or the twelfth thoracic vertebra and those on either side of it, is most liable to in- jury, for here a fixed part joins the most movable, there is a long leverage on both sides, and the transverse width is least. Notice that the plane be- tweeji any two vertebrae is interrupted by the upward and downward projection of the articular processes and other parts connected with the neural arch. Simple dislocation between two ver- tebrae is, therefore, almost impossible, unless perhaps in the cervical region, where the surfaces of the articular jjrocesses are more nearly horizontal. This is borne out in practice, where we find fracture-dislocation the common injury, the processes or neural arch being commonly fractured, if not the body itself. LUMBAR VERTEBR/E Fig. 145.—The spinal column, right lateral view and dorsal view. (Testut.) Ossification of the Vertebrae. The vertebrae are preformed in cai'tilage (Fig. 146) around the notochord and enclosing the spinal cord, la most cases three primary centres of ossification occur—one on either side in the neural arch, and one in the body. The former unite together in the median line dorsally to form the arch. But sometimes this union fails for a distance, especially in the lumbar and sacral regions, leaving a gap through which a spina bifida may occur. The part fijrmed by the ossific ceiitres of the neural arch constitutes a varying amount of the lateral and dorsal aspects of the bodies (including the rib facets), separated for a time