THE BONES. 192 fissure is the spheno-ynaxiUary fissure, which connects the upper part of the zygo- matic and of the spheno-maxillary fossae with the orbit. This fissure lies nearly horizontally between the free margins of the orbital surfaces of the maxilla and the palate-bone internally and the sphenoid externally. In front it is usually Fig. 220.—The bony sinuses of the head. (Testut.) limited by the malar bone, though the maxilla and sphenoid may articulate and exclude it. The spheno-maxillnry fossa, shaped like an inverted pyramid, is a small space between the maxilla and the root of the pterygoid process. It is bounded in front by the upper and inner part of the zygomatic surface of the maxilla, internally by the vertical plate and the orbital and sphenoidal processes of the palate-bone, behind by the roots of the pterygoid process and the lower part of the anterior surface of the great wing of the sphenoid. The apex leads into the posterior palatine canal, the base into the back of the orbit through the hind part of the spheno-maxillary fissure. Internally the spheno- palatine foramen connects it with the nasal fossa, and behind are seen the foramen rotundum, Vidian canal, and pterygo-palatine canal (in the order named, from above and without, downward and inward.) The fossa contains Meckel's gan- glion, with its roots and branches, and the terminal branches of the internal maxillary artery enclosed in a mass of fat. The lateral region presents postero-inferiorly the external auditory meatus, nearly in the same vertical transverse plane with the bregma, and behind this the mastoid process, with the variable mastoid foramen behind and above it. The base of the skull externally (Fig. 221) from the incisor teeth to the exter- nal occipital protuberance is very irregular, and may be studied in three divisions. The anterior or palate division includes the hard palate, formed by the palate processes of the maxillte and the palate-bones, and bounded laterally and in front by the alveolar arch. Medially in front notice the anterior pakdine fossa, into which four foramina open, and from which, in young skulls, the snture separating the premaxillary bone runs to the outer side of each lateral incisor tooth. At the posterior angles are the lower openings of the posterior palatine canals, from each of which a groove runs forward in the angle between the palate and the alveolar arch for the anterior palatine nerve and the posterior palatine vessels. The hamular processes are seen at the postero-lateral limits of the hard ]ialate, behind and internal to the last molar teeth. Between these and the posterior palatine canal are the openings of the accessory and external palatine canals. The middle or subcranicd division extends back to a line joining the tips of the mastoid processes. It slopes upward and forward from behind, and is at a higher level than the anterior division. Between these two divisions are the following