THE SEVENTH OB FACIAL NERVE. 587 carotid artery, and behind the ramus of tlie lower jaw divides into a superior or temporofacial and an inferior or cervicofacial division, which break uj) into the numerous branches distributed to the face and submandibular region. The brunches of the facial nerve may be divided into three groups : {A) those given off in its course through the petrous bone, {B) those arising from the trunk at the base of the skull, and (C) those springing from its two great terminal divisions. {A) Branches of the Facial Nerve in its Course through the Petrous Bone.—(a) Filaments connect the geniculate ganglion with the ves- tibular division of the auditory. (6) The great superficial petrosal nerve is the largest of the three branches given off from the geniculate ganglion. It has been described with Meckel's ganglion, of which it forms the motor root. ((') The small superficial petrosal nerve is also given off from the geniculate ganglion. It traverses a canal just external to tlie hiatus Fallopii, where it is joined by a branch from the tympanic plexus of the glossopharyngeal. It goes to the otic ganglion, leaving the cranium in the interval between the great wing of the sphenoid and petrous bone, or through a small canal beside the foramen ovale. (d) The external superficial petrosal nerve, the last of the three branches from the geniculate ganglion, traverses a small canal in the petrous bone, and passes to the sympathetic })lexus on the middle meningeal artery. It is not constant. (e) A branch to the stapedius muscle is given off from the facial nerve as it descends behind tlie pyramid. (/) The chorda tympani nerve, given off from the facial at the lower end of the aqueductus Fallopii and containing nearly the whole pars intermedia, enters the back part of the tympanum, crosses that cavity on the inner side of the handle of the malleus under a covering of the lining membrane, and gains the base of the cranium by a canal at the inner side of the Glaserian fissure. It runs downward and forward under cover of the external pterygoid muscle, and joins the lingual nerve, after receiving twigs from the otic ganglion. It is conducted by the lingual nerve to the sul>maxillary ganglion, and to the anterior two-thirds of the tongue, forming the path for the sense of taste between that section of the organ and the glossopharyngeal nucleus. (g) Just before leaving the aqueductus Fallopii the facial nerve gives a twig to the auricular branch of the pneumogastric, as it courses through the temporal bone. (B) Branches given off between the Base of the Skull and its Final Division.—(a) The posterior auricular nerve commences just after the facial nerve has appeared at the base of the skull. It passes backward in the deep recess between the mastoid process and the external ear, communicating with the auricular branch of the pneumogastric, and sends a vertical branch upward to the retrahens aurem, attollens aurem, and small muscles on the cranial surface of the auricle, and a liorizo)dal branch backward over the temporal bone to the occipitalis. It communicates with the great auricular and small occipital nerves. (6) Just below the preceding nerve arises the nerve to the posterior belly of the digadric. One of its branches frequently joins the glossopharyngeal nerve. (c) The nerve to the sti/lohi/oid muscle may be given off along with the last in one common trunk or separately at the same level. (d) A lingual branch is described. It passes on the outer side of the stylo- pharyngeus muscle to the side of the pharynx, where it is joined by twigs from the glossopharyngeal. It then passes between the palatoglossus and the tonsil, and at the base of the tongue divides into filaments to the mucous membrane and palatoglossus and styloglossus muscles. (Cj The two great Terminal Divisions of the facial are distributed in a manner which may be summarized as follows :