718 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. above and large intestine below. Its average length is twenty feet or more ; and, as it is all contained in the abdominal cavity, which also lodges many other organs, it is necessarily subjected to numerous bendings, and consequently, when the anterior wall of the belly is laid ojien, presents the appearance of inextricably tangled convolutions. From above downward it gradually diminishes in size, thickness of wall, and com])lexity of structure. Its diameter near its beginning is nearly two inches, but becomes steadily less, and is hardly an inch at its lower end. Its loss in structural elaborateness will be described in detail later on. It occupies the umbilical and hypogastric regions and the adjacent portions of the lumbar, being to a large extent within the area bounded by the colon. Parts of the Small Intestine.—It is usually described as consisting of three parts—the duodenum, jejunum, and ileum. The first of these is limited by distinct natural boundaries, and is strikingly different from the rest in other respects. The second and third are not thus differentiated, and there is no manifest advantage in continuing the attempt to distinguish them from one another. But as the names are fastened in our nomenclature, they will be used to designate respectively the uppermost and lowermost portions of the small intestine distal to the duodenum, without tlie suggestion of a definite line or even region of demarcation between them ; and the name jcjuno-i/eum will be em- jiloyed to indicate the continuous, undivided Avhole which the two constitute. Tunics of the Small Intestine. ,CREE BORDER The small intestine has four tunics, wliich correspond in general character and arrangement with those of the stomach. The Serous Coat (Fig. 768) furnishes a ])ractically complete covering for the whole tube, excepting the duodenum, which is but scantily clad with it. This membrane is reflected from the dorsal wall of the abdomen, runs forward for a distance, which varies in different parts, reaches the intestine, which it closely enwraps, and, returning almost to its line of first contact, turns toward its parietal origin, keeping in practical a])position with its outgoing layer, until it arrives at its starting- point, where it is reflected toward the opposite side of the body. Thus is formed not only a snug inves- titure for the gut, but also a double-layered mooring, fastened at one end to the hind wall of the abdomen, at the other to the intestine, and permitting large freedom of movement. This structure is the mesen- tery ("in the midst of the intestines"), and between its two layers are the arteries, veins, lymphatic ves- sels, and nerves required by the bowel, a great number of lymph-nodes, and usually a quantity of adipose (Fig. 769). The proximal (attached, parie- tal, dorsal) border of the mesentery extends from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra to the right mesocolon, its direction being from above downward and to the riglit, and its measurement eight or ten inches. The distal (free, intestinal, ventral) border is vastly longer, being frilled out to the length of the jejuno-ileura, and thus sug- gestive of a widely opened fan. Its sides are right or superior, and left or inferior. Its length is from the attached to the free border, and varies from one inch to ten inches. The Muscular Coat lies just within the serous, which covers it perfectly, except for a very narrow strip between the lines of attachment of the mesenteric layers. This bare area marks what is called the attached border of the intestine, HIND WALL OF ABDOMEN Fig. 768.—Diagram to show the relation of the peritoneum (broken line) to the greater part of the small intestine.