THE ARTICULATIONS. 220 appears continuous as viewed from behind. This ligament represents a detached part of the pectoralis minor tendon. (2) The gleno-hmneral bands, three in num- ber, extend between the ventral margin of the glenoid fossa and the neck of the humerus. They are seen projecting on the interior of the inner and fore part of the capsule when the joint is oj)ened from behind. The superior gleno-humeral band extends between the upper end of the ventral margin of the glenoid cavity and the upper end of the small tuberosity of the humerus, forming a slight groove, directed backward, for the inner edge of the biceps tendon. It may occasionally be quite free from the capsule, and it lies above the opening by which the bursa beneath the scubscapularis tendon communicates with the synovial Fig. 240.—Sboulder-joint in coronal section, front view. The synovial sac is distended. (Testut.) cavity of the joint. The middle gleno-humeral band lies below this opening, along the lower border of the subscapularis, arises from the glenoid margin Avith the superior band, and is attached to the inner side of the small tuberosity of the humerus. The inferior gleno-humeral band is the strongest, and passes between the middle ])art of the ventral border of the glenoid rim and the lower part of the neck of the humerus. The superior gleno-lunneral band represents the divorced tendon of the subclavius muscle as seen in birds, and cori-esponds to the ligamentum teres in the hip. The transverse ligament, by its fibres passing transversely between the tuber- osities, forms a canal of that part of the bicij)ital groove which belongs to the epiphysis. The capsular ligament is attached to it superficially. The synovicd membrane lines both free surfaces of the glenoid ligament, and is thence reflected over the inner surface of the caj)sule to the humeral neck, where in front it passes down the bicij)ital canal for a distance, and there is reflected onto the bicejjs tendon, which it sheathes, as it passes through the joint, as far its attachment to the glenoid ligament. Between the superior and middle gleno-humeral bands there is usually an opening where the synovial membrane is continuous with that lining the bursa beneath the subscapularis tendon. It occasionally communicates with a bur.sa beneath tlie infraspinatus muscle. The articular cartilage is thicker near the centre of the head on the humerus and at the margins of the glenoid fos.sa, thus deepening it. Nerves from the suprascapular, circumflex, and subscapular supply the joint. Movements.—Flexion and extension, abduction and adduction, circumduction and rotation are allowed to a degree determined by the extent of the humeral articular surface, the length of the capsule, and the resistance of the overlying pai'ts. Flexion and extension, or the movements forward and slightly inward, and backward and slightly outward, take place on an axis corresponding to that of the head and neck of the humerus, which is nearly perpendicular to the centre of the glenoid cavity. Flexion is much more free than extension, and between