348 THE MUSCLES. ridge, passes outward and upward, and is inserted into the skin above the middle of the upper margin of the orbit. It draws the skin toward the middle line, causing vertical wrinkles in the central lower part of the forehead. From the brows to the superior curved lines of tlie occijiital Ijone the vault of the skull is covered by a muscnlo-membranous structure, which is by some anatomists regarded as a digastric muscle, the occipito-frontalis; but the contrac- tile portions will here be described as separate organs, one as a muscle of the fore- head, the other as a muscle of the occiput; and the intervening membrane as the epicranial aponeurosis. It will be well to consider the last before the others. The epicranial aponeurosis is a wide, fii-m, fibrous sheet, running antero-pos- teriorly over the sunmiit of the cranium, attached jjefore to the frontalis muscle, behind to the occipitalis and the occipital protuberance. It is thickest near the middle, and very thin at the sides. It is closely adherent to the skin which covers it, but only loosely to the pericranium over which it lies. Frontalis (Fig. 407), "the forehead muscle," arises from the anterior end of the epicranial aponeurosis, passes downward, and is inserted into the skin and muscles from the root of the nose to the outer end of the eyebrow. It elevates the brows, causing transverse wrinkling of the forehead. Muscle of the Occiput. Occipitalis (Fig. 407), "the occipital muscle," is situated at the back of the head. It arises from the outer two-thirds of the superior curved line of the occipital bone and the mastoid portion of the temporal, passes upward, and is inserted into the epicranial aponeurosis. It acts in direct line Avith the frontalis, and emphasizes its action—that is, the transverse wrinkles of the forehead caused by the frontalis are made more conspicuous when the occipitalis acts at the same time. Alternate contraction of these two muscles in some persons produces a fore-and-aft movement of the scalp. The occipitalis is a weak muscle, but what force it has is exerted in the direction of expression.