134 THE BONES. tubercle beyond. From this point, projecting backward and upward, and becoming more and more elevated, it extends outward and a little upward to the middle of the neck of the scapula. Thence it is continued forward and out- ward as the flat, quadrate acromion (" summit of the shoulder ") jjvoceHs^, over- hanging the shoulder-joint. The upper and lower smooth, concave surfaces of the spine form part of the supra- and infraspinous fossae respectively. Of the two Fig. 158.—The right scapula, dorsal view. (Testut.) unattached borders the short, smooth, and concave external harder arises at the neck of the scapula, where it bounds the great scapular notch, and is continuous with the under surface of the acromion. The more prominent subcutaneous dorsal border, or erest, is rough, broad, and serpentine. Commencing at the above-men- tioned triangular surface, it passes outward to become continuous with the rough, subcutaneous upper surface of the acromion. The upper lip of the cre.st is con- tinuous with the inner border of the acromion, and to them is attached the trape- zius muscle as far as the oval facet for the outer end of the clavicle, on the inner border of the acromion near its tip. The lower lip of the crest is continuous with the outer border of the acromion, with which it forms an angle, the acromial angle, and from them the deltoid takes origin. The apex of the acromion attaches the coraco-acromial -ligament, and its under surface, continuous with the upper sui'face and outer border of the spine, is smooth and covered by a bursa. The internal or vertebral border (or base) is long and irregularly convex. Opposite the commencement of the spine it bends more sharply, and here attaches the rhomboideus minor muscle, while below this area the rhomboideus major is attached by a fibrous ai'ch, and above it the levator scapulae is inserted. The superior border, short, sharp, and concave, extends from the superior angle to the base of the coracoid process, where it presents the suprascapular notch, converted into a foramen by the transverse ligament (sometimes by a spicula of bone). The foramen transmits the suprascapular nerve, and from the ligament and the adjacent boi'der the omo-hyoid muscle arises. The external or axillary border is quite thin, and ju.st below the glenoid fossa presents a rough impression, from which the long head of the triceps arises. A little below this is a groove for the dorsal ai'tery of the scapula. The long, rounded, thick inferior angle is often called the angle of the scapula.