526 THE CEREBROSPINAL AXI8. horizontal or vertical section its outline is undulating. The adherent tissues being dissected away, it is seen to be of triangular shape, with its apex above ; and its base, which is its thickest part, is found to reach to the surface of the brain at the anterior perforated space, where it is united to the lenticular nucleus. Fig. 578.—Longitudinal section through the entire right caudate nucleus, viewed from mid line. The plane of the section is not perpendicular, but has followed the surcingle outward. C, caudate nucleus. CO, front part of callosum. F, frontal lobe. O, occipital lobe. T, temporal lobe. S, surcingle. 1, 2, inner and middle zones of lenticular nucleus. 3, internal capsule. Observe the continuity of the gray substance. (Dalton.) The olfactory lobes, the optic tracts, and the chiasma will be considered in con- nection with the cranial nerves. The Amygdaloid Nucleus (Figs. 581, 586, 575). This ganglion, otherwise called amygdala, is a mass at the tip of the temporal lobe, due to a tliickening of the cortex of this region. It is of sufficient size to cause a protrusion into the roof of the middle horn of the lateral ventricle, at whose distal end it receives the extremity of the surcingle. It is continuous in front and above with the lenticular nucleus. The Velum Interpositum. Although it is a part of the parietes of the third ventricle, the velum inter- positum (" interposed veil") requires description here because its fringed edges, the choroid plexuses, appear in the floor of the lateral ventricles, and cannot be understood except in connection with the velum. It will be recalled (Figs. 549, 552) that the pia of the under side of the developing first brain-vesicle is brought by the backward and downward growth of that segment directly in contact with the pia of the upper surface of the second brain-vesicle. The combination of the two layers of pia constitutes the velum interpositum—the veil placed between the prosencephalon and the thalamencephalon. It lies just beneath the part of the fornix which appears in the bodies of the lateral ventricles, and just above the cavity of the third ventricle, resting at the sides upon the upper surfaces of the thalami. In the floor of each lateral ventricle, between the fimbria, which makes the edge of the fornix, and the taenia semicircularis, which margins the caudate nucleus, is a narrow strip of the parietes of the first encephalic vesicle in which there is an entire absence of nervous tissue, and, consequently, the wall of the vesicle in this area consists merely of endyma and pia. The fimbria and ttenia arc prolonged from the body of the lateral ventricle into its middle horn ; and the wall between them here is like that between them in the body of the ventricle—merely pia and endyma in close contact, the nervous tissue which once existed in this narrow area having