406 THE BLOOB-VASCULAB SYSTE3L Relations. In front. Skin, superficial fascia. Platysma, deep fascia. Suprascapular artery. External jugular vein. Clavicle. Beloui. Third portion First rib. of subclavian. Behind. Scalenus medius. Variations.—The subclavian is sometimes on both sides a direct trunk from the aortic arch, or on both sides a branch from a right and left brachio-cephalic artery. The vessel is usually at its high point in the neck a half inch above the clavicle, but sometimes it rises considerably higher ; sometimes it is beneath the clavicle entirely. The branches of the subclavian often present variations which are of importance and which will be discussed in studying the individual branches. Surgical Anatomy (Figs. 442, 446).—The surgical anatomy of the first and second portions of the subclavian is not of great importance, because, owing to the great depth of the vessel and its relations to important structures, it is seldom interfered with surgically. The vessel, however, can be and has been ligated in the first two portions of its course. The surgical anatomy of the third portion is of great importance, and should be carefully studied. The blood supply of the upper extremity can be controlled by compressing the subclavian digitally against the upper surface of the first rib. This method is now, however, seldom employed. Ligation of the third portion of the subclavian may be required for injuries of the arteries of the upper extremity below this point, or for aneurism. It is also a preliminary step in the amputation of the entire upper extremity. The operation is made in the following way: An incision four inches in length is made over the clavicle beginning a little external to the sterno-clavicular ai'ticu- lation. This incision divides the skin, superficial fascia, platysma, and deep fascia. In making this superficial incision the external jugular is exposed, and may be drawn to the inner side or divided between two ligatures. The sub- clavian triangle is now outlined, bounded below by the clavicle, above by the pos- terior belly of the omo-hyoid, and internally by the sterno-cleido-mastoid. The suprascapular artery crosses this triangle above and parallel with the clavicle. Carefully dividing the areolar tissue at the floor of this triangle, a second triangle is exposed ; this second triangle is bounded above by the brachial plexus, below by the first rib, and internally by the scalenus anterior muscle. The third portion of the subclavian artery is in this small triangle. In ligating the vessel care should be taken to avoid the subclavian vein, which is below, the brachial plexus, which is above, and the phrenic nerve, which lies on the anterior surface of the scalenus anterior. Collateral circulation is usually readily established between the branches of the first portion of the subclavian, and the branches from the axil- lary, external carotid, intercostals, and deep epigastric. Branches.—The branches of the subclavian are, as a rule, four in number, and given off from the first portion of the vessel, although sometimes the superior intercostal is given off from the second portion, and the posterior scapula is often a branch from the third portion. They are the vertebral, the internal mammary, the thyroid axis, and the superior intercostal. The Vertebral (Fig. 443) is given off from the posterior surface of the sub- Ahove. Brachial plexus. Omo-hyoid muscle.