166 THE BONES. posteriores major and minor and the obliquus superior. On the external or under surface of the condylar portions we see the condyles, which lie at the sides of the anterior half of the foramen magnum. Thi-ough them the head rests upon and articulates with the atlas. Their smooth, elliptical, convex surfaces, cartilage- clad in the recent state, converge in front and look downward and outward. On the median side of each is a rough impression or tubercle for the lateral odontoid or check-ligaments. Behind each condyle is a depression, the ■posterior condylar fossa, which receives the hind edge of the ai'ticular facet of the atlas in extension of the head. At the bottom of the depression is sometimes seen the external opening of the posterior condylar foramen, for the passage of a vein from the lateral sinus. It is frequently absent on one or both sides. The base of the condyle is traversed by the anterior condylar foramen, which passes outward and forward from the cranium above the foramen magnum, and transmits the hypo- glossal nerve. External to each condyle the yi((/it/av (from yu^fw/Hm, " throat") process presents an inferior rough surface, which lies above the transverse process of the atlas, and gives insertion to the rectus capitis lateralis. The inferior sur- face of the basilar portion is inclined forward, is narrower in front than behind, and is transversely convex. It presents a small median pharyngeal tubercle, attaching a process from the fibrous aponeurosis of the pharynx. On either side of this it is rough for the recti capitis anteriores, major and minor. A part of this surface can be palpated, though not easily, through the mouth. On the internal or cerebral surface the squamous {" scaly ") portion presents a concave surface divided by a transverse and a longitudinal ridge into four fossse, the two superior for the occipital cerebral lobes and the two inferior for the cere- bellar hemispheres. The intersection of these ridges is marked by the internal occipital protuberance. The longitudinal ridge above the protuberance extends to the superior angle, and is grooved for the superior longitudinal sinus, the edges of Avhich attach the falx cerebri. The transverse ridges extend to the lateral angles, are similarly grooved for the lateral sinuses, and to the edges of the groove is attached the tentorium cerebelli. The groove for the longitudinal sinus passes to one side, usually the right, of the internal occipital protuberance, where the groove is deeper and lodges the torcular Herophili wine-press of Herophilus The sharp vertical ridge below the protuberance, called the internal occipital crest, attaches the falx cerebelli. It passes to the foramen magnum and spreads out into its margin. On the upper surface of the jugular process is seen a deep groove leading to a notch, the jugular notch, on the anterior border of the jugular process. This notch is joined by a notch on the petrous portion of the tem- poral bone, and thus forms the jugular foramen {ioY&merv lacerum posterius). The groove lodges part of the sigmoid or terminal portion of the lateral sinus. Sepa- rating this groove from the foramen magnum is the jugular eminence, with the intracranial opening of the anterior condylar foramen internally, and that of the posterior condylar foramen externally (on the side of the groove). The upper surface of the basilar process presents a central groove, the basilar groove, slant- ing upward and forward for the medulla. On either margin of this surface is half of the groove for the inferior petrosal sinus. Angles.—The superior angle, as well as the two lateral, belong to the squamous portion. It fits into the angle formed by the meeting of the posterior superior angles of the parietal bones, and corresponds to the posterior fontanelle in the foetus. The lateral angles at the outer ends of the superior curved lines occupy the angles between the parietal bone and the mastoid portion of the temporal on either side. The anterior or inferior angle is represented by the oblong, anterior surface of the basilar portion, united to the body of the sphenoid by cartilage until the age of twenty years, afterward by bone. Borders.—The two superior borders extend between the superior and lateral angles, and are convex and deeply serrated. They articulate with the posterior borders of the parietals, and form the lambdoid ("lambda-like") or parieto-occi- pital suture. The tioo inferior borders extend between the lateral and antero-