38 ELEMENTARY TISSUES. Fig. 7.—Diagram of a cell, H. G.) Of the numerous definitions of cells, that which seems most exact is the uUi- mate morjjJwlogical elements of the tissues. It is not sufficient to say that they are the " ultimate elements " of the tissues, because that term refers to their chemical constituents : it is necessary that the definition should include a word which explains that the elements referred to have a definite, distinguishable, and charac- teristic shape, and this requirement is fulfilled by the word " morphological," the adjective from " morphology," the science of form. Thus is conveyed the idea that in histological analysis—which is to the microscopic structures what dissection is to the macroscopic—we do not go beyond the cell; that this is the last thing reached by the process; and that in all of the textures it has such definiteness of form as to en- able us to differentiate one tissue from another. The typical cell (Fig. 7), capable of development and reproduction, is a round or ovoid mass of proto- plasm in which is a nucleus. Protoplasm (from Greek words meaning " the first" and " the thing formed ") is a substance whose proper- ties underlie the vital functions, and therefore it has been called the physical basis of life. It is homoge- neous, soft, and jelly-like, and possesses contractility— the power of shortening a diameter, of drawing one of its parts nearer to another. It usually looks granular, but this appearance will be explained a little later. The nucleus is a roundish mass, generally central in location, and named from the Latin word which means " the kernel," because its situation is so suggestive of the meat of a nut. Sometimes the nucleus contains a small body (perhaps more than one) bearing to it a relation similar to that which the nucleus itself sustains to the cell; and this is called the nudeolus ("the little kei-nel"). The typical cell has no investing membrane. The granular appearance of its protoplasm is due to a network (spongioplasm) which becomes visible with lenses of high power. In the meshes of this plexus is a nearly fluid, homogeneous material {hyaloplasm). The nucleus has a similar construction, but has addition- ally a limiting membrane. The nucleoli are connected with the reticulum (net- work) of the nucleus. One point on the nucleus is called its pole, and the exactly opposite point is its antipole. The protoplasm may become condensed at the surface, and this hardened peripheral part is called the cell-Avall. A deposit of chemical substances in the wall frequently occurs, and contributes to its solidity. Cells may produce material superficially in large amounts without essential change of their own shape ; and thus are formed substances called intercellular ("between the cells"). Tissues consist of cells and intercellular substance. In shape cells differ widely : the various forms will be described in connection with the discussion of the respective textures. Some cells are less than YToo" ^'^^'^ diameter, others more than 5 o-> and between these extremes are all possible gradations. As has been said, the protoplasm of the cell possesses contractility, and this jiroperty enables it to display movements which are known as amoeboid, because they are ob- served in a typical form in a unicellular, aquatic creature called amwba. In its cell alters its form rapidly, assuming inde- the irregular contraction, first, of one portion part. By virtue of this quality the cell can move from place to place, one point becoming fastened, and the rest of the cell up to it and pushing out a process to a farther point in the same Fig. 8.—Amceboid movements. (Hackel.) amoeboid movements (Fig. 8) the scribably fantastic outlines, due to of the mass, and then of another