509 THE CEREBRUM. The Second Vesicle.—The walls of the second encephalic vesicle, enclosing the most of the third ventricle, are strikingly unequal in their development. At the sides they become very thick, forming the masses called the thalami; in front and below the walls are very thin ; and at the top the nervous tissue disappears entirely, leaving the serous lining in contact with the vascular covering—the endyma and the pia thus constituting the roof of the cavity. In Fig. 549 the cerebral hemisphere is pictured as hinged at the region of the porta and canted forwai'd, in order that it may be more easily regarded inde- pendently of the second encephalic segment. Now, let us replace the hemisphere in the position which it normally occupies, namely, resting upon the second seg- ment, the thalamencephalon (Fig. 552). The pia underlying the fornix and the ])ia overlying the thalamus are thus brought together, and in this way a double layer of vascular membrane is made to intervene between the bottom of the first encephalic segment and the top of the second. These layers fuse together and constitute the velum interpositum the interposed veil"). The first two encephalic segments have more in common than their con- nection in the region of the porta and the blending of the layers of pia which come between them. There is a con- tinuation into the hemisphere of great columns of nerve-tissue from the thalamencephalon, which receives them from the parts behind and below itself; and these will be described later. The Third Vesicle.—Passing from Fig. 552—DiaRram like Fig. 549, except that tiie , 1 , J. j-l hemispheres have been put back in tlieir normal posi- the thalamenceplialon we come to the tion. {v. h, g.) mesencephalon, the region of the third encephalic vesicle, which contains the aqueduct. Here the walls are everywhere thickened, and, when viewed on their ventral aspect, look like two strong pillars, the crura cerebri; but their dorsal aspect presents four knobs, called corpora quadrigemina ("the four-twin bodies"). The Fourth Vesicle.—The ventral Avail of the fourth encephalic vesicle is thick, constituting the pons ; the side walls, the pedunculi, are rather thin ; and the true dorsal wall, the valvula, is very thin. But a large, solid mass, the cere- bellum, overhangs the rest of the segment, and to casual inspection conveys the idea of an enormous thickening of the dorsal wall. The Fifth Vesicle.—The fifth encephalic vesicle, the oblongata, is the part least altered from the fi)rm of the spinal cord, with which it is continuous. It looks as if it were split in the middle behind, and its upper part Avidely spread o]ien. Stretching across the cavity from one of these spread edges to the other is a layer of endyma, covered by a thin layer of pia, Avithout the intervention of any nerve- tissue, con,stituting the roof of this segment. The preceding diagrammatic presentation of the salient points in the structure of the encephalon will serve as a framcAVork on Avhich to build up more detailed information on the subject. THE CEREBRUM. The Surface of the Cerebrum. The surface of each hemisphere of the cerebrum is composed of a layer of grav nervous tissue of variable thickness in different ])arts. The convex, exter- nal'surface, the flat mesial surface, the irregular under surface—all present an outer stratum of cellular nerve-material, called the cortical layer, because it is a