THE ORGANS OF RESPIRATION. 764 the left of the middle line. The front border, also, for the same reason, is deeply notched. The right lung is on a somewhat higher plane than the left, on account of the greater elevation of the right half of the diaphragm, upon which muscle the lungs rest. Each lung is marked by a deep fissure (Fig. 824), which starts on the hind surface about three inches below the apex, and runs spirally around, terminating near the junction of the inner and lower borders. This fissure is very deep, extending inward nearly to the hilum, and dividing the lung into an upper lobe and a lonier lobe. About half way of this oblique fissure on the right lung a second fissure (Fig. 825) begins and runs nearly horizontally toward the middle line, FiG. 824.—Position of the oblique fissure of the Fig. 825.—Position of the fissures of the right left lung with reference to the ribs. Tlie humerus lung with reference to the ribs. The humerus Is is raised. The line Is the axillary line. (Testut.) raised. The line ax is the axillary line. (Testut.) ending at the anterior border. This fissure divides the upper lobe of the right side into two, Avhich are called the middle lobe and the upper lobe. The left lung is taller, narrower, and more deeply excavated on its median surface ; the right is shorter, wider, less indented, and weighs a fifth more than the left. The volume of the lungs varies with the amount of contained air. In a new- born child, who has not breathed, the lungs occupy but a small part of the chest, seeming to be crowded upward and backward by the diaphragm, which stands at the level of the third rib. But they quickly expand when respiration is estab- lished, and thenceforth occupy all of the chest, except the central portion, as before stated. As, however, the capacity of the thorax is constantly fluctuating, owing to the respiratory movements, the lungs, which accompany the chest-walls in all of their advances and retreats, experience coincident and corresponding variations. The average capacity of the lungs is estimated to be nearly seven and a half pints. The entire respiratory surface at a moderate calculation is more than 870 square feet, and some estimates place it very much higher. On account of the contained air the lungs are very light, and float readily in water. Fcefal pulmonary tissue, however, never having contained air, is not very unlike liver in its specific gravity, as well as in its appearance, and sinks in