THE BLOOD-VASCULAB SYSTEM. 368 being muscular, others merely folds of endocardium. A network of muscular ridges covers the wall of the appendix, and on the right wall of the atrium is a series of vertical bands of nearly equal size, not inaptly named musculi pectinati ("ccmib-like muscles"). Connecting the margin of the inferior vena cava and the anterior edge of the annulus ovalis is a membranous fold, the Eustachian valve, which is prominent in proportion to the youth of the individual. In the foetus it serves to guide the blood from the inferior vena cava through the fora- men ovale of the sejitum into the left auricle. Between the openings of the venae cavse is an indistinct projection, the tubercle of Lower. OPENING OF VALUE CORONARY SINUS Fig. 425.—Right auricle and part of right ventricle, the front wall having been removed. (Testut.) The Right Ventricle has an irregular cavity, concave in front and convex behind, where the mptum ventriculonmi (" partition of the ventricles") bulges into it. There are two large openings—the atmculo-ventricular orijicc, and that of the pulmonary artery, the latter being at the apex of the hijtmdibuhim, a somewhat funnel-shaped portion of the chamber toward the left side. The auriculo-ven- tricular opening is closed by the tricuspid valve, so called from its three con- spicuous segments. These are of unequal size and irregular shape, having ragged and frayed free edges, and between their attached borders frequently small secondary segments. One flap is at the left, one at the right, and one l)ehind. They are composed of white fibrous tissue, and their attached borders are united to a fibrous ring, which encircles the orifice. At the junction of the pulmonary artery with the heart is pulmonary valve, made up of tliree fibrous festoons of semilunar shape (Fig. 429). The free edge of each is marked at its middle by a nodule, the corpus Arantii (" body of Arantius"). The attached margin is strengthened by a ring of fibrous tissue. Behind each flap is an enlargement of the arterial bore, making a little recess, the sinus of Valsalva. Many large mus- c!ular prominences, columnce carnece {" fleshy columns "), are observed evei'ywhere, except in the infundibulura (Fig. 426). Of these there are tliree kinds : those that are sculptured in high relief from the wall—attached at both ends and all of one side; those that are fastened at both ends and nowhere else; and those that have only one extremity secured to the wall. The last are known as papillary muscles, because they stand out like nipples, and they are arranged in two princi-