THE BONES. 196 overhung by three turbinate plates, of which the upper two belong to the ethmoid, and,the lower is the inferior turbinate bone. The superior meatus, between the superior and inferior turbinate plates of the ethmoid, is very short, being limited to the posterior half of the fossa. It opens behind only, and into it open the posterior ethmoidal cells and the spheno-palatine Fig 223.—Tne nasal fossEe, viewea from tne miaclle ime. (Testut.) foramen, Avhich connects it with the spheno-maxillary fossa. The middle meatus, between the inferior turbinate plate of the ethmoid and the inferior turbinate bone, is longer than the former. It opens both in front and behind, and into it open the maxillary sinus or antrum, and, by means of the infundil)idum, the frontal sinus and the anterior ethmoidal cells. The i)iferior meatus, the longest and widest, also opens both in front and behind, and lies between the inferior turbinate bone and the floor of the nasal fossa. The nasal duct opens into it superiorly in front and connects it with the orbit. The nasal fossae thus com- municate by narrow passages with all the neighboring fossae and air-sinuses. The latter are hollow spaces within the maxilla, sphenoid, ethmoid, and frontal, already described in connection with those bones. With the exception of the antrum, which exists during foetal life, they originate during cliildhood, and all increase in size rapidly at puberty, and more slowly throughout adult life. The Interior of the Cranium. In a skull bisected horizontally or vertically notice the great proportionate size of the brain-cavity and the thickness and (;om]iosition of its walls (Fig. 224). The latter consist of an outer and an, inner table of compact bone and the inter- vening cancellous diploe {" fold "). The inuer table, called the vitreous table from its hardness and brittleness, has a smooth, shining surface, marked with impres- sions for the convolutions of the brain and with grooves for blood-vessels. The skull-cap or calvaria, averages one-fiftli of an inch in thickness, but along certain ridges, and especially at the base, the thickness is much greater. Thinner areas exist in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid and the orbital plates of the frontal bone, Avhere there is no diploe, and also in the lower occipital fossae, the squamous portions and glenoid fossae of the temporal bones. The calvaria or skull-cap consists of a vaulted dome, formed by the frontal and parietal bones and the interparietal portion of the occipital bone. Its inner surface jjresents in the median line the f/roove for the superior lovgitudinal sinus, ending in front in the frontal erest, and behind at the internal oecipital protuber- ance. On either side of the groove are vjirying numbers of depressions for Pac-