591 NINTH OK GLOSSOPHARYNGEAL NERVE. nwtter, to emerge from it at the junction of tlie two horns ; thence outward througli tlie crossed pyramidal tract and direct cerebelUir tract to their superficial origin, between the ligamentuni denticulatuni and dorsal nerve roots. It extends as low as the sixth or seventh cervical nerve. The Ninth or Glossopharyngeal Nerve. The glossopharyngeal (" tongue-pharynx") nerve (Fig. 647) is formed by the union of the upper five or six bundles of nerve-fibres, which arise from the side of the ol)longata between the olivary and restiform bodies. It passes outward in front of the flocculus to the jugular foramen, by the middle compartment of which it leaves the cranium antei'o-iiiternally to the vagus and spinal accessory, and in a special sheath of dura. In this foramen it lies in a groove or canal on the posterior border of the petrous bone, and here it possesses two successive gangliform enlargements, the jugular ganglion and petrous ganglion, respectively. It then passes for a short distance downward between the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein, lying at first close to the vagus. It soon winds forward, under the styloid process and its muscles and superficial to the internal carotid artery, till, reaching the lower border of the stylopharyngeus muscle, it runs forward on it to the back of the tongue, whei'c, under cover of the hyoglossus, it l^reaks up into its terminal branches. The jugular ganglion is situated at the upper margin of the jugular foramen. It is very small, not constant, only involves the posterior fibres of the nerve, and gives ofl* no branches. It is regarded as a displaced portion of the lower ganglion, and together they are taken to represent the ganglion on the sensory root of a spinal nerve. The petrous ganglion lies in a groove on the jietrous bone at the lower margin of the jugular foramen. It is not more than one-fourth of an inch long, and involves the whole nerve. It gives off the tympanic nerve, and twigs which communicate with the pneumogastric and sympathetic. Branches.—(a) Meningeal branches are distributed to the pia and arachnoid membranes within the craniiun. (6) The tympanic branch [nerve of Jacobson) is a minute but important nerve, which is given off from the petrous ganglion. It enters the tympanum through a small foramen situated on the ridge between the carotid canal and jugular fossa, and on tlie promontory divides into several branches, which form the tympanic plexus. Of these the principal branch jiierees the roof of the tympanum to join the i^inall petrosal nerve, of which it ])robably forms tlie main constituent. By this means glossopharyngeal fibres pass to the otic ganglion and so to the pai'otid gland. Another filament joins the great superficial jietrosal nerve ; and a twig called the small deep petro.ml nerve joins the carotid plexus of file symjmthetic. In addition to these, filaments are distributed to the lining mem- brane of the mastoid ccllx, the fenestra oralis, fenestra, rotunda, and Eustaehian tube. (c) Three communicating branches arise from the petrous ganglion, namely, filaments to the upper cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, the auricular branch of the vagus, and to the root-ganglion (jf that nerve. Immediately below the petrous ganglion a twig is given ofi" to the lingual liranch of the facial nerve. {d) A muscular branch is supplied to the styhjpharyngeus, which also sends filaments to the mucous membrane of the pharynx. [e) Pharyngeal branches, two or three in number, spring from the nerve just below the petrous ganglion. The main branch passes downwai'd over the internal carotid artery, and joins the ]iharyngeal branch of the vagus to form the ])]iaryngeal plexus with the assistance of branches from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. (_/") The tonsillar branches are two or three nerves which ascend under the hyoglossus to form a ])lcxns on the tonsil called the circulus tonsillaris, from which twigs proceed to the soft palate and isthmus faucium.