329 THE MUSCLES OF THE BACK. as the sacro-lumbalis, as it begins in the sacral region and runs to tlie lumbar. It is inserted into the lower six or seven ribs at their angles, or in the line of the cos- tal angles. From the same ribs, a trifle toward the middle line from these points of insertion, springs the accessoi^ms ad iUo-costalem (Fig. 391), " the adjunct to the ilio-costalis," which passes up and is inserted into the upper six ribs (at the angles of those below the hrst, and on that one near the tubercle), and the trans- verse process of the vertebra ])i'ominens. On the four or five ribs above those from which the accessorius arises, a little mesially from its line of costal insertion, are the points of origin of the cervicaUs ascejidens (Fig. 391), "the ascending neck muscle," which thus sustains a relation to the accessorius like that of the latter to the ilio-costalis. It is inserted into the transverse processes of the fourth, fiftii, and sixth cervical vertebraj. These three muscles—the ilio-costalis, accessorius, and cervicalis ascendens—are in appearance and in effect practically one. The middle and largest division of the erector spinse begins as the lonc/issimus dorsi (Figs. 390-392), " the longest muscle of the back." It is inserted into the transverse processes of all the thoracic and the accessory processes of the lumbar vertebne, and into most of the ribs between the tubercles and angles. Its upward prolongation is called fransvejsafi-'^ ceroids (Figs. 390, 392), a name which refers to the attachments of the muscle to transverse processes. It arises from the transverse processes of from four to six upper thoracic vertebrae, internally to the insertions of the longissimus, and is inserted into the transverse processes of cer- vical vertebrte from the second to the sixth. The last segment of this division is the trachelo-mastoideus (Figs. 391, 393), " the neck-mastoid muscle," so called from its situation and insertion. It arises from the transverse processes of from four to six upper thoracic vertebrae with the transversalis cervicis, and also from the articular processes of the lower three or four cervical ; and it is inserted into the mastoid process of the temporal. The third and smallest division is nearest the median line, and is given off from the main mass of the erector above the middle of the thorax. It is called the spinalis dorsi (Fig. 390), "the spinal muscle of the back," with reference to its bony attachments. It is a continuation of that portion of the common mass wliich arises from the lumbar and thoracic spines, and is inserted into the spines of a variable number of vertebrae in the upper thoracic region. The effect of this arrangement is such that the erection of the vertebral column is accomplished, not as it would be by a muscle which had no attach- ments between the sacrum and cranium, but by a continuous succession of con- tractions from one small division of the column to another only a short distance away. Thus, a variety of actions is effected, and strength and steadiness of move- ment insured. The nervous supply of the entire series comes through the dorsal primary branches of the spinal nerves. Muscles in the Fifth Group of the Back. The fifth series of muscles lies in front of the erector spinae. They are all characterized by the direction of their fibres, which is from below upwai'd and inward. Nearly all of the points of origin are on transverse processes of ver- tebrae, and most of the insertions are on spinous processes, the fibres passing from a transverse pi'ocess to the spinous process of the fourth, fifth, or sixth vertebra above. They are the following : Complexus. Multifidus. Semispinalis cervicis. Rotatores. Semispinalis dorsi. Complexus (Figs. 393, 391), " the intricate muscle," sometimes is called semi- spinalis capitis, but Avithout good reason; for the term " semispinalis " in con- nection with other muscles is used to signify that one attachment is upon spinous processes of vertebrse. It arises from the transverse processes of the upper six