75 GLANDS. a variety of functions, among which is the distinguishing of impressions of touch. It will, therefore, be more appropriately considered with the organs of the senses. GLANDS. A gland is an organ, which abstracts from the blood certain materials and makes of them a new substance, which is then discharged into a cavity or upon a surface. In other words, a gland is a secreting organ, its process and its product both bearing the name of secretion. Simply constructed membranes, such as the serous, doul)tless perform some secretory work ; but it is always of a low order, and the resulting product is only slightly different from the materials of which it is composed. It would not be expected that the cells upon a plane surface, whose principal function is protective, and which are constantly subjected to hard usage on account of their exposed situation, would be able to do secretory work of any but the most primitive kind. It would be as reasonable to demand a high gi-ade of work from an artisan stationed in the middle of a thoroughfare, where he would be jostled by every passer. Such a one needs freedom from interference, and with- draws from the bustle of the throng into a secluded retreat, Avhere he has every facility for doing the most delicate and elaborate tasks. Nature acts in precisely this way in constructing an organ which is to make a secretion : a depression appears in a membrane—an inversion of the surface-structure takes place—and the cells, which are thus removed from the worries and dangers of the open and exposed locality, experience various changes. They become plumper and softer, their nuclei enlarge, and they develop a capacity for secretion, wliich their less favorably environed neighbors never emulate. The materials which they abstract from the blood are so wrought over that their original character is not sug- gested by the nature of the secretion of which they are the ingredients. The organ which accomplishes this thing is a true gland ; and, as a rule, the more completely it is guarded from annoyances and interruptions, the more elaborate and valuable is its work. The essential thing in a gland, as has already been intimated, is the epithelial eell. The forms of secreting cells are as varied as possible, but the tendency is to keep near the spherical type. Indeed, spheroidal epithelium is hardly to be looked for outside of glands. The simplest form of a gland is the follicular, a mere dimple in the surface (Fig. 82, A). Enlargement of the embedded tube, without dilatation of its open- A B 0 D E F G Fig. 82.—Diagram showing development of glands: A, a mere dimple in the surface; B, enlargement by division; C, enlargement by dilatation; b, a combination of B and C; £, a racemose gland; F, development of method of E; 6, a single tube intricately coiled. (F. H. G.) ing, makes a saccular or flask-shaped gland (Fig. 82, C). Branching of the lower parts changes a simple gland into a compound (Fig. 82, B), and what was pre- viously the upper part of the secreting organ now becomes the duct of dis- charge, its epithelium losing its true glandular character, and becoming more like that upon the general surface. By repetition of these processes the gland becomes not only larger, but more complicated — fibrous or reticular tissue occupies the interstices, and affords mechanical support; muscular