THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. 460 joins the internal maxillary vein opposite the neck of the jaw to form the temporo-maxillary vein. The temporal vein also receives anterior auricular veins from the external ear, transverse facial veins from the masseter muscie, parotid veins from the gland, and branches from the plexus around the temporo-maxillary articulation, which receives a braneli from the tympanum, through the hssure of Glaser. The Internal Maxillary Vein is a short vessel, which passes backward from the pterygoid plexus, accompanying the corresponding ai'tery as a single or a double trunk to join with the common temporal vein in forming the temporo-maxillary vein. The Pterygoid Plexus surrounds the pterygoid muscles and corresponds to the second and third portions of the internal maxillary artery, by the companion veins of whose branches it is made up. It communicates in front with the facial vein, through the deep facial vein, above with the inferior ophthalmic vein and the cavernous sinus, and behind with the plexus from which the middle temporal vein arises. The Posterior Auricular Vein descends from a plexus on the lateral aspect of the scalp, which communicates with the temjjoral and occipital veins and with the vein of the opposite side. It is large in comparison with its companion artery, which it leaves below the ear, and inclines forward toward the angle of the jaw to join the posterior division of the temporo-maxillary vein, and form the external jugular vein. C. POSTERIOR REGION. The Occipital Veins collect the blood from the hind part of the venous plexus of the scalp, and descend, as one or two trunks, with the occipital artery deeply into the neck, where they are continuous with the deep cervical vein. An emis- sary vein, passing through the mastoid foramen, connects the lateral sinus with this vein, or, in some cases, with the posterior auricular vein. 2. Veins of the Neck (Fig. 493). The External Jugular Vein, formed by the union of the posterior auricular vein and the posterior division of the temporo-maxillary vein, descends nearly vertically from its commencement near the angle of the jaw to terminate opposite the middle of the clavicle in the subclavian vein. It lies beneath the platysma, and crossing the sterno-mastoid muscle obliquely it follows the hind border of the latter in its lower half. Near the clavicle it pierces and is closely connected with the deep cervical fascia, whicii holds it open. It has a pair of imperfect valves at its entrance into the subclavian vein, and another an inch or two above the clavicle, and the part between them is called the sinus, being often dilated. Its lateral trihnfaries are the followinsr: The posterior external jugular vein. This desceuds behind the sterno-mastoid muscle, from the skin and superficial muscles of the upper and back ])art of the neck and the lower occipital region, to open below the middle of the external jugular vein. It may communicate with the occipital vein. The transverse cervical and suprascapular veins accompany their corresponding arteries, and open into the external jugular vein a little above its termination. They sometimes present a plexiform arrangement in the subclavian triangle. These veins have valves near their termination and may sometimes open into the subclavian vein. The anterior jugular vein takes origin below the chin from small bi'anches which communicate with the lower radicles of the facial vein. It descends at a variable distance from the median line to near the inner end of the clavicle, where it perforates the'deep fascia and turns outward beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle to open into the lower end of the external jugular vein, or sometimes into