THE BONES. 200 to be nearly parallel interually and to look forward. The bones of the human skull are more completely consolidated, so that the total number is less than in the lower vertebrates. Thus the pre- and ])ost-sphenoids, the interparietals, the squamosals, the styloids, the pterygoids, and the premaxillse are often separate bones, and the frontal bone and mandible are frequently divided into two halves in vertebrate skulls. The Various Forms of the Skull. The skull at birth is characterized by the small size of the face and the very large size of the cranium, the smallness of the base, the prominence of the parietal and frontal eminences, the absence of the mastoid processes, the diploe, the suture serrations, the impressions, grooves, and ridges, and by the existence of the fontanelles. The temporal squama and the great wings of the sphenoid do not extend far upward, and the glenoid fossfe are quite flat and small. Variations with Age.—The skull grows very rapidly during tlie first seven vears. During the first dentition the fontanelles close, the face enlarges, the jaws lengthen, and the zygoma projects. Bi/ the seventh year some parts, such as the circumference of the foramen magnum, the petrous ])ortion of the temporal bones, the body of the sphenoid, and the cribiform plate, have attained their definitive size, while other parts are (juito immature. Near the approach of jmherty a second period of active growth begins, and results in the elongation of the face, due to the increased height of the nasal fossae, the expansi(jn of the air-sinuses, the enlarged teeth of the second dentition, and the augmented height of the alveolar arches of the jaws. Ossification becomes completed, and the adult shape and size are attained. The capacity increases but little after thirteen years of age. In later years the muscular crests develop, the frontal region elongates, and the air-passages and cells expand, the latter pi'ocess continuing in old age. In old age the skull undergoes atrophy, becoming thinner, lighter, and, often a little smaller by absorption on the outer surface. The air-cells expand as the ca])acity diminishes, and the face becomes smaller by absorption of the alveolar pi'ocesses and the loss of the teeth, causing the upper jaw to retreat and the lower to project at the chin. Sexucd Variatiom.—The male skull is larger, heavier, and of greater capacity (11 :10), especially in the frontal and occipital regions, than the female, and the ridges, occipital protuberance, mastoid processes, zygomatic arches, and frontal sinuses are more developed. The female skull preserves a look of immaturity in the smaller proportion of the face, the narrower and less prominent jaws, the prominence of the parietal eminences, and the smoothness of the surface. Race differences, except among three or more large general classes, are often so slight, taking averages, as to require accurate and uniform cranial measure- ment or craniometry for their determination. Of the measurements the most important are the following, with the data of the average European skulls for each : (1) The capacity, 1450 c.c, affording a convenient indication of the devel- opment of the brain. (2) The circuniference, 52 cm., taken in a plane passing behind through the occipital point (or the point of the occipital bone in the median j^lane farthest removed from the glabella), and in front through the ophryon (or the middle of the line drawn across the narrowest jiart of the fore- head). (3) The length, 17 cm., from the ophryon to the occi]jital point. This is above the frontal sinus, and gives the length of the brain-case only, while the maximum length is between the glabella and the occipital point. (4) The maxi- mum breadth is the greatest breadth between the parietals; the breadth at the level of the zygomata is 12.5 cm. (5) The height from the basion to the bregma is nearly the same as the breadth. The cranio-facial angle is about 96°. For the ready comparison of race-measurements the breadth and height are reduced 100 X l)readth or height to indexes by comparison with the length as follows : ■ r fj ' '