708 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. Fig. 758—Under mi hire nf tongue and the sub- lingual space, showing openings of salivary ducts. The mucosa of the left side is partly removed, and shows the ranine artery, the lingual nerve, and the gland of Blandin, (Testut,) direction. It ends anteriorly in a somewhat pointed tip. Its mucosa is specialized, and has already been de.scribed in the chapter on the organs of the special senses. The Sublingual Space (Fig. 758).— Lifting up the tip of the tongue we obtain a view of the sublingual space. We see that the mucous membrane of the under side of the tongue is smooth, and not furnished with such specialized papillse as mark the upper surface. A fore-and-aft fold, the frcemim lingiice ("bridle of the tongue"), in the mid line, connecting the tongue with the jaw, limits the backward movements of the apex. On each side of this bridle opens a duct from the mbmaxiUary saliv- ary gland. The sublingual salivary gland forms an elongated elevation in the gutter between the tongue and the jaw on each side, and the openings of its many ducts are found in the region of the frfenum. Beneath the rest of the raucous membrane in this space are various lingual muscles. Structure of the Tongue.—As pre- viously stated the tongue is made up largely of muscles. These are ar- ranged in pairs with bilateral sym- metry, and when we speak of the action of a given muscle, we shall imply the simultaueous contraction of its fellow of the opposite side. Mingled with the muscles of the tongue are fibrous, and adipose tissues, and many vessels and nerves. Its framework consists of .a vertical, median, fibrous plate, extending from the hyoid bone to the tip of the tongue, and a fibrous lamina near the surface of the dorsum and edges in each lateral half. The muscular part of the tongue comprises two groups—the intrinsic and the extrinsic muscles. The distinction between them is somewhat arbitrary. If the connections of the tongue with the hyoid bone, the styloid process of the tem- poral, the mandible, the velum palati, and the pharynx be severed (the muscles in each case being traced to their attachments) and the organ be then removed, we shall see that there is a firm central portion of definite shape, tapering from behind forward, and that from this body project a number of muscular bands of various forms and sizes. The intrinsic muscles are found only in the central mass ; the projecting bands are parts of the extrinsic muscles, the other parts being embedded in the central mass, in which their fibres decns.sate with those of the intrinsic mu.scles. The Lingualis Muscle.—The intrinsic mass or tongue ])i'oper is sometimes spoken of as the lingualifi mmc.le; but it is convenient to divide it into four por- tions—the superior, the inferior, the transverse, and the vertical. They are all supplied by the hypoglossal nerve. The superior lingualis consists of longitudinal fasciculi, which lie near the upper surface from the hyoid to the apex, attachments being made all along with the submucous tissues. Its action produces shortening of the tongue, and longi- tudinal grooving of its dorsum. The inferior lingualis is a large bundle, which runs under the edge of the tongue in its whole length. It shortens the tongue and rounds up its dorsum. The transverse lingualis is made up of fibres which arise in the median septum