208 THE ABTICULATIONS. condition is found in the cervical, the latter in the lumbar region, and these are the two most movable parts. The direction of motion in any region is regulated by the shape of the articular processes. In the neck all movements are permitted by the obliquity of the articular processes. Extension is more free than elsewhere, and flexion is free, but less than in the lumbar region. Lateral flexion is more extensive than in any other region, but it is a combination with rotation, neither motion occurring freely by itself, except in the lower cervical region, where rotation is free. But little motion is allowed between the axis and the third cervical vertebra, owing to the thinness of the disc and the ovei'lapping of the axis in front. In the thoracic region extension is checked by the overlapping of the laminae and spines, as well as by the shape of the articular processes. The latter also prevent flexion. As the articular processes lie in the arc of a circle of which the centre is in front between the bodies, rotation is permitted and is most free in the upper part. Lateral flexion, otherwise possible, is prevented by the ribs. In the lumbar region, owing to the thickness of the discs (especially between the lower three vertebrse), flexion is very free, extension moderately so. The centre of the circle in which the articular processes lie is situated behind ; but, owing to the fact that these processes do not fit closely together, a slight amount of rotation and some lateral flexion are permitted, the lateral motion being also limited by the great transverse diameter of the bodies. Motion is therefore most free in regions whose curve is convex forward, whose spinal canal and the contained spinal cord are largest, and where there are no bony cavities containing viscera. The ligamenta subflava complete the spinal canal, prevent the capsular ligaments from being nipped between the articular surfaces during motion, and restore these surfaces to their normal position after movement. They have but little, if any, effect in limiting flexion or restoring the column to the erect position after flexion. 2. The Articulations and Ligaments Between the Atlas, Axis, and Occipital Bone. The essential difference between these and the intervertebral articulations in general lies in the absence or modification of the intervertebral discs. The specialization of motion between these three bones results in some differences in the ligaments, though most of them are the continuation of the series found below. A. The Articulations between the Axis and the Atlas (Figs. 228, 229).—There are here two sets of synovial joints or articulations : 1. The joints between the superior articular processes of the axis and the lateral masses of the atlas are arthrodial. Each is surrounded by a capsular ligament, strengthened at the inner and dorsal aspect by an accessory ligament, which passes from the back of the body of the axis upward 'and outward, along the outer edge of the occipito-axial ligament, to the lateral mass of the atlas behind the transverse ligament. 2. The articulations of the odontoid process in the ring between the ventral arch of the atlas in front and the transverse ligament behind are of the trochoides class. There are two synovial sacs—one in front, between the odontoid process and the atlas ; the other and more extensive one behind, between the odontoid process and the transverse ligament. These two sacs are separated by transverse fibres, which pass from the sides of the odontoid process to the atlas, in front of the tubercles for the transverse ligament. The transverse ligament is a thick, dense, and very strong band, which passes across the ring of the atlas between the tubercles on the inner side of its lateral masses. It is arched slightly backward, flattened from before backward, and cartilage-clad in front as it passes behind the narrowed and faceted neck of the odontoid, which it holds in ])lace, and by doing this preserves our lives. From and across the centre of its dorsal