58 ELEMENTARY TISSUES. Tlie colorless corpuscles are globular, granular, about 2X0¥ i"^^ in diameter, and possess nuclei which are indistinct during the life of the cell. At rest thev display amceboid movements. This description will be seen to coincide with that of the lymph-corpuscles ; and this will not be surprising to one who has learned that the lymph-stream pours incessantly into the current of blood, so that what is at one moment a lymph-corpuscle, at the next, having entered the blood-vascular system, is a blood-corpuscle. The colorless corpus- cles are divisible into a number of varieties, which are chiefly ditiFerentiated by means of staining tests. The colored corpuscles are very abundant, num- bering perhaps five hundred to one of the colorless, and making about one-half of tlie volume of the blood. They are circular, non-nucleated discs, with rounded edges and centrally depressed surfaces, smooth, amber, transparent, flexible, elastic, and about ^yg-j inch broad. Besides these bodies are others, inconspicuous and somewhat difficult of dem- coiIrl^;fc7^'ZfeZ^^^^^^^^^ onstration, which need not be mentioned here, ton') ^'^'^ "^^^'^^ '^^^ colored. (Dal- The blood is Contained in the chambers and tubes of the blood-vascular system, from which it does not normally escape, excepting in the spleen, where it courses in wall-less channels, and in the case of women during menstruation, when it is discharged through ruptures in the vessels. THE MUSCULAR TISSUES. Tissues Devoted to Movement. Contractility is in some degree an attribute of various tissues. The typical and original cell manifests its amceboid movements by virtue of its contractility, which it brings to bear now in one direction, presently in another. The cilia on the free surface of an epithelium are made to perform their rhythmical lashings because of contractility in their cells. But the muscular tissues alone depend upon this property for the sole functional quality which distinguishes them. Their contractility is displayed on a macroscopic scale, and results in the active movements by which locomotion of the body and clianges in the relation of its different parts are effected. We distinguish three kinds of muscle, which differ anatomically, and, for the most part, physiologically also. They are— 1. Plain muscular tissue. 2. Cross-striped muscular tissue. 3. Cardiac muscular tissue. Plain Muscular Tissue. This tissue is known by a variety of names besides that just given. It is called smooth, for the same reason that it is called plain, because of the usual appearance of its cells ; non-striated or mistriped, to distinguish it from the second kind of muscle, which is characterized by a regular criss-cross of lines on its cells ; involuntary, from the fact that it is not under the control of the will; vegetative and the muscidar tissue of organic life, because it aids directly in the performance of those offices which are classed as vegetative—in the organic action which is beneath consciousness. It is found, for the most part, in the walls of the hollow organs, as, for exam- ple, the alimentary tube, the urinary bladder and the tubes leading to and from it, and the arteries and veins. It is made up of cells (Fig. 50) which typically are fusiform ; but their ends