THE MOUTH. 703 nearest the mid-line) of the upper set are larger than the lateral; but the central incisors of the lower jaw are smaller than their laterals. The Canine (Fig. 750), so-called from its prominence in animals of the dog- tribe, has a longer fang than an incisor. Its crown terminates in a sharp point, technically a cusp, from which comes the name, " cus- pidate," occasionally employed. An upper canine is upper canine of right side vulgarly called an eye-tooth, and a lower a stomach- tooth, each from the direction of its fang. A Bicuspid (Fig. 751), as its name implies, has two prominences or cusps on its ci'own. From its situation in front of the next group it is also called premolar. Its root shows an attempt at division. Molars (" millstones") (Figs. 752, 753) are thus named from their being concerned in grinding the food, and are also called multicuspids from their having three or more cusps on their summits, double teeth from their size, and jaw-teeth from the room which they occupy. In the upper set the molars have three fangs each ; their mates in the lower have but two each. The third molar is, with fine irony, called the wisdom-tooth, because it does not appear until the late teens. The absence of this tooth about once in eight times, and its crowded condition in many cases, when present, point to the gradual lessening of the size of the jaws in proportion to the diminution of the work required of them in civilized life. Excepting the last upper molar, each tooth touches two in the opposite set, when the jaws are closed (Fig. 754). The upper dental arch is a little larger ^^^^^ ^.^^^^^^ ^^.^^^ than its fellow, and overlaps it in front, so that the (Testut.) cutting edge of the superior incisors glides downward on the anterior surface of the lower, as one blade of a pair of scissors acts upon the other. Sets of Teeth. The teeth grow in two series, the one in infancy, the other in childhood and youth. The former are displaced by the latter, and, therefore, are named tempo- rary, or first teeth. They are also called deciduous, because they are shed, and mVk-teeth on accoiint of their development during the period of lactation. Those of the later set are called permanent, or second teeth, and it is they which have just been described (Fig. 755). The Temporary Teeth are twenty in number, there being five in each lateral half of each jaw, namely two incisors, one canine, and two molars. It will be observed that there are no bicuspids, and no third molar. The bicuspids of the permanent set take the place of the temporary molars, and the jaw grows suf- ficiently to give room for the permanent molars, which are the successors of no other teeth. Eruption of the Teeth.—The temporary teeth usually begin to appear when the baby is about seven months old, and he has his full score by the time that he is two years of age. Before any of the milk-teeth are shed, the first grinders of the second set are fully develojjed. They are called the six-year molars in cele- bration of the time of their advent. The others of the series consume a dozen years in their " cutting," as their protrusion through the gum is commonly called. There are so many exceptions to any rule, which states the precise date of appearance of the teeth, that it is well nigh useless to present such a formula. But it is desirable to know the order in which they may be expected, and this is