NAMES AND DELIMITATIONS OF SURFACE PARTS. 25 the small of the back behind. The word " throat" has no anatomical equivalent. It is variously used to designate the front part of the neck, or the tonsils and adjacent parts of the soft palate, or the pharynx, or the organ of voice {larynx). High up on the neck in front is a hard protrusion, more prominent in men than in women, caused by the thyroid cartilage of the larynx, and called " Adam's apple " ■(jiomimi Adami) in playful celebration of the most noted and unfortunate gastro- nomic performance on record. The median portion of the neck behind is the " nape " {nucha). Just above tlie top of the breast-bone is often seen a little pit, esteemed a mark of beauty by artists, who have named it " Diana's pool." The body proper, as distinguished from the entire organism, is known as the " trunk " {truneus), and presents two grand divisions, the upper of which is the "chest" {thorax), the lower the "belly" {abdomen). The superficial line of separa- tion between them is pronounced, and is made by the bones and cartilages which form the lower border of the thoracic cage, as the skeleton of the upper cavity is called. Sloping downward and outward from the lower part of the breast-bone, the boundary- line is continued backward at the sides, and then obliquely upward behind. But this surface marking is by no means an indica- tion of the relative size of the two cavities : it only shows the line along which is at- tached the base of a muscular dome, the diaphragm or midriff, whose central portion rises to the level of a point about halfway up the sternum, and shuts off the cavity of the thorax from that of the abdomen. Thus, the summit of the belly-cavity is rounded, presenting a marked convexity upward, and the base of the chest-cavity, into which the former rises, is correspond- ingly concaved. From the front of the chest of the adult female there projects a nearly hemispherical mass on each side (Fig. 3). This is the "breast" {mamma), the organ in which milk is formed. The valley between these hillocks is properly the " bosom," but this word is often used as synonymous with breast. At about the central point of each mamma stands out the nipple or teat {mammilla, literally " the little breast"), its base surrounded by a circular space which is distinguished by the darkness of its skin, and is called the areola (literally "the little area") or the "halo." The male has no milk-forming organ, but he has in the same relative situation upon the chest-wall slightly developed mammillte. These are good illustrations of a rule that the generative organs which ai'e fully developed in one sex are aborted in the other, being represented in the latter by some little bulge or dimple, whose only use seems to be to suggest the narrow escape of its possessor from being of the opposite sex. The belly at its upper central part presents a shallow depression, popularly called the "pit of the stomach," but technically scrobiculus cordis, which literally means " the little pit of the heart." This confusion of names arises from the physical (not the figurative) nearness of the heart and stomach, the one resting upon, the other lying underneath, the diaphragm, and both being in the region of this slight hollow. Farther down in the mid-line, and usually nearly on Fig. 3.—Front of torso of woman. (F. H. G.)