EMBRYOLOGY. 102 muscle- and fascia-layers of the abdomiual walls which preceded the peritoneal process. The cord, which represents the round ligament, is to be found in the adult in a small cord which passes from the epididymis to the wall of the scrotum, and is termed the gubernaculwni. It has already been stated that the allantois does not entirely degenerate at birth, the middle part of its intra-embryonic portion persisting as the urinary bladder, and the part between this and the umbilicus becoming converted into a solid cord, known as the iirachm. The part between the bladder and the intes- tine forms what is termed the xirogenital sinus, and into it the Miillerian and Wolffian ducts open. In the development of the ureters the portions of the Wolffian ducts between their point of origin and the sinus are, in tlie male, gradually taken up into the sinus, so that the ureters and the vasa deferentia have separate openings, the former uniting with the base of the bladder, while the latter open into the sinus. Since the allantois is connected with the intes- tine, that portion of the digestive tract receives the urinary and genital products as well as the fseces, and thus receives the name of the doaca (Fig. 116). At an early period this cloaca becomes di- vided by a partition into a dorsal and a ventral portion; this partition becom- LOWER LIMB CLOACA GLANS PENIS GENITAL RIDGE GENITAL FOLD GENITAL FURROW Fig. 115.—External view of the cloaca. (Hertwig.) Fig. 116.—Anlage of the penis or clitoris. (Hertwig.) ing gradually thicker, the dorsal portion, representing the lowermost part of the rectum, becomes separated from the ventral portion, the region intervening between the two being the j)erineum (Fig. 117). In the mean time, however, on each side of the urogenital opening a ridge of skin, the anlage of the scrotum in the male and the labia majora of the female, has appeared, and between the anterior (ventral) ends of the ridges a tubercle develops, along whose posterior surface a groove is formed which opens proxi- mally into the urogenital sinus. This tubercle is the anlage of the penis or clitoris (Fig. 116), and at this stage there is practically no difference between the male and female genitalia. In the male the lips of the penial groove now meet together and fuse, the groove being thereby converted into a canal continuous with the urogenital sinus, the canal and sinus together constituting what is GLANS PENIS GENITAL RIDGE GENITAL FUhROW L> ^ GENITAL FOLD PERINEUM M 'I i. GLANS PENIS PREPUCE GENITAL FOLD GENITAL FURROW RAPHE OF SCROTUM Fig. 117.—Formation of the jierineum, separating the alimentary and the genito-urinary passages. (Hertwig.) Fig. 118.—Development of urtthrn and scrotum. (Hertwig.) termed the urethra of the adult. As a result of this closure of the groove the scrotal ridges of either side are brought into contact, and fuse together below the penis to form the adult scrotum (Fig. 118). In the female the lips