THE PHARYNX. 711 of the calibre of the pharynx, and the others—the stylopharyngens and palato- pharyngeus—are elevators, which lift up the pharynx and larynx. The last of these has already been described in connection with the soft palate. EXTERNA L AUDITORY MEATUS Muscles of the Pharynx. Constrictor Inferior (Figs. 7tiU, 761) (" the lower constrictor").—Situation, the side and back of the lower part of the pharynx. Origin, the cricoid and thyroid cartilages of the larynx. Direction, backward, inward, and upward, diverging from its origin. Insertion, the median tendon, common to it and its fellow opposite, extending nearly to the basilar process of the occipital bone. It over- laps the middle constrictor. Action : it compresses the pharynx, mainly ventro- dorsally ; it also moves the larynx up- ward and backward. Nerves, from the pharyngeal plexus, and the external and inferior laryngeal. Constrictor Medius (Figs. 760, 761) ("the middle constrictor").—Situation, at the side and back of the middle part of the pharynx. Origin, the cornu of the hyoid, and stylohyoid ligament. Direction, divergent—all portions back- ward and inward, the inferior down- ward, and the superior upward. In- sertion, the common tendon in the middle line in almost the entire length of the pharynx. Action : it compresses the pharynx, chiefly ventro-dorsally; and it draws the hyoid backward and upward. Nerves, from the pharyngeal plexus. Constrictor Superior (Figs. 760, 761) ("the upper constrictor").—Situation, at the side and back of tlie upper part of the pharynx. Origin, the side of the tongue, the mucosa of the mouth, the mylohyoid ridgi", the pterygomaxillary liga- ment, and the lower fourth of the hind border of the internal pterygoid plate. Direction, divergent—all parts backward and inward, the superior upward, and the inferior downward. Insertion, the common tendon in the middle line from the basilar process half way, or more, to the gullet. Action, approximation of the lateral walls of the upper part of the pharynx. Nerves, from the pharyngeal plexus. The name phari/ngogfossas (glossopharyngeus) is applied to certain fasciculi which extend from the superior constrictor to the tongue—the upper losing itself in the palatoglossus and styloglossus, the lower merging into the hyoglossus, genioglossus, and lingualis. Stylopharyngens (Figs. 760, 761) ("the styloid-process-pharynx muscle").— Situation, at the side of the ]iharynx, and mesial to the middle and lower con- strictors. Origin, the styloid process of the temporal bone. Direction, down- ward and inward. Insertion, the upper and hind borders of the thyroid cartilage, mingling with the palato-pharyngeus. Action, lifting the pharynx and larynx. Nerve, the glosso-pharyngeal. Fig. 760.—Muscles of the pharynx, viewed from the right side. (Testut.) The Tonsils (Fig. 746). In the recess formed by the divergence of the pillars of the palate on each side is a flattened, ovoid body, the tonsil (tonsilla) or almond (amygdala), whose