367 THE HEART. Fig. 424.—Cross-section through both ventricles, showing tlie shape of their cavities and the relative thickness of their walls. (Testut.) ("around the heart"). It will be described in detail on a subsequent page. Between the endocardium and the pericardium is a middle coat, which is muscular and fibrous, and, on account of the enormous preponderance of the contractile tissue, is named myocardium (" muscle of the heart"). The muscular tissue is of the cardiac variety. The arrangement of the bundles of fibres is extremely intricate, and not yet fully understood in all of its details. The Thickness of the Cardiac Walls.—The muscular walls of the right auricle are thin and so flabby that they fall together when the cavity is empty ; they have to drive the blood but a short distance—only into the ventricle—and through a very large opening. The right ventricle has thick, firm walls, so powerful that by them the blood is sent through the pulmonary artery and its branches, into and through the numberless capillaries of the lungs, through the pulmonary veins, and into the left heart. The left auricle has walls but little thicker than those of the right, yet quite equal to the trifling labor placed upon them—that of forcing the blood through the large auriculo-ventricular orifice into the left ventricle. The left ventricle by its con- traction must drive the blood through the vessels of the systemic circulation ; and, as these are much more numerous than those of the pulmonary set, and present, on account of their situation, far greater frictional resistance to the pas- sage of the blood in proportion to their number, there is necessity for vastly greater power in the ventricular walls, which, in fact, are three times as thick as those of the right ventricle (Fig. 424). The bulging of the interventricular septum into the right ventricle is due to this greater thickness of the parietes of the left; indeed, this whole partition has the appearance of being formed by the latter. The auriculo-ventricular openings and those of the pulmonary artery and the aorta are guarded by valves, which do not interfere with the passage of the blood in the course already descril^ed, but do serve to prevent a return of blood to a cavity from which it has been dischai'ged. The heart is situated in the lower and front part of the chest, extending much farther to the left side than to the right. It lies obliquely, the auricles being at the right of and a little higher than the ventricles. The Right Auricle (Fig. 425), when viewed from the inside, presents a main chamber, the atriam (" hall"), and a little ante-chaml)er, the cavity of the appendix, the latter being at the front and upper part of the auricle. A num- ber of openings are seen. At the back the two vence cavce enter, the superior above, the inferior below. The floor of the atrium is largely formed by a trap- door, the tricuspid valve, which closes the oval aurimlo-ventrieulnr opening. Several cardiac veins of considerable size, returning blood from the substance of the heart itself, open directly into the cavity. The largest of these is called the coronary sinm, and enters between the inferior vena cava and the auriculo- ventricular orifice, its orifice being protected by a serous fold, the valve of Thebesius. There are also some very small veins, vc7ue minimce cordis (" the least veins of the heart"), whose apertures, together with others of similar appearance, which are said to be blind depressions, have been named foramina Thehesii (" holes of Thebesius"). On the hind wall, which is the partition between the two auricles, is a shallow depression, the fossa ovalis (''oval pit"), bordered, except below, by a ridge, the annulus ovalis (" oval ring"). The fossa marks the site of a hole {foramen ovale), Avhich exists in the septum auricularum (" ])artition of the auricles") in intrauterine life, and at birth becomes permanently closed by a flap of membrane. Various projections from the sui'face are observed, some