241 THE TABS'AL JOINTS. of the anterior joint. Furthermore, those parts of the lateral ligaments of the ankle which reach the os calcis help to unite it with the astragalus. (2) The (•alcaneo-astmgalo-scaphoid joint is between the anterior facet on the upper surface of the os calcis and the facets on the lower surface of the head and neck of the astragalus, and between the head of the astragalus and the navicular. The bones are held together by the following ligaments, in addition to the interos- seous ligament, which limits the joint postero-externally. Calcaneo-scaphoid Ligaments.—Tlie inferior or internal ligament is broad, thick, and partly tibro-cartilaginous. It firmly unites the front and inner edges of the sustentaculum tali with the inferior surface of the navicular and its inner surface behind the tubercle. Its upper surface is smooth and articular, and completes the socket for the head of the astragalus below and internally. The upper part of its under surface presents a smooth facet for the tendon of the tibialis posterior, which aids in supporting the head of the astragalus. It is blended internally with the internal lateral ligament of the ankle, and externally and below with the external or superior caleaneo-seaphoid ligament. The strong fibres of the latter ligament pass obliquely forward and inward from the fore part of the upper surface of the OS calcis, external to its front upper facet, to the outer surface of the scaphoid. It limits both the anterior astragalo-calcaneal and the astragalo-scaphoid joints externally. The capsule is completed superiorly by the adragaJo-sceiphoid liga- ment, a broad, thin, membranous band, which converges from the upper surface of tlie head of the astragalus to the upper surface of the navicular. The syyiovial membrane of the posterior astragalo-calcaneal and that of the calcaneo-astragalo-navicular joints are distinct, and separated from one another by the interosseous ligament. The calcaneo-cuboid articulation, between the contiguous facets of the os calcis and the cuboid, forms, with that between the astragalus and scaphoid, the medio- tarsal, transverse tarsal, or Chopart's joint. The surfaces are held together by the following ligaments : The inferior calcaneo-cuboid ligaments consist of two por- FiG. 258.—Medio-tarsal joint, viewed fruiii above, the astragalus having been removed. (Testut.) tions, known as plantar ligaments. The superficial i)art, or long plantar ligament, arises from the under surface of the os calcis between the tubercles, and extends forward to the oldique ridge on the under surface of the cuboid. From this ridge some fibres continue forward, bridging over and converting into a canal the groove for the peroneus longus tendon, and are attached to the bases of the outer four meta- tarsal bones. The deep portion, or short plantar ligament, attached to the under surface of the os calcis, to and in front of the anterior tubercle, extends forward and inward to the depression on the under surface of the cuboid behind the 16