THE CA VITY OF THE CEBEBRO-SPINAL AXIS. 503 is usually called the third ventricle, the first and second ventricles being the lateral, which are never designated in a numerical way, but always as right lateral ventricle and left lateral ventricle. It will now be seen that the third ventricle communicates with each lateral ventricle by a separate porta. Next we study the cavity of the tldrd encephalic vesicle—the mesenceiihalon. This assumes a shape as if it were stretched between its neighbor in front and the one behind : it is drawn out into a small tube, and thus constitutes a long and narrow channel from the vesicle before to that behind (Fig. 540). It is named the aqueduct {aquedactus Sylvii—from Sylvius, a celebrated anatomist), and also by another name, which will be better understood ..,. ; a little later. \ _ / The cavity of t\io fourth encephalic vesicle—the epencephalon V'""""/ —instead of retaining its globular shape, is flattened from above downward, as if it had • ,' been compressed between plane surfaces applied \ / obliquely to its dorsal and ventral aspects; \/ H i R 0 Fig. 538.—Diagram of changes in second vesicle—view from above. Fig. 539.—Same as Fig. 538—view from left side. Fig. 540.—Diagram of clianges in third vesicle. and it is widened out behind, assuming a triangular form, the apex being for- ward (Figs. 541, 542). A little of the constriction between it and the fifth vesicle is still observable, even in the developed condition. The cavity of the ffih enceq)hcdic vesicle—the metencephalon—undergoes changes in its fore part almost identical with those I j experienced by that of the fourth; but the triangle \ c • .-^ • - /' which it forms has its base forward, applied to the \^ " y' ba.se of the triangle of the fourth vesicle, and its apex backward, and the obliquity of the surfaces is opjio- site to that of those of the fourth (Figs. 543, 544). Thus, the two vesicles foi'm a single shallow cavity „, FOURTH VESICLE Fici. 541.—Diagram of changes in fourth vesicle—view from above. Fig. 542.—Diagram of changes in fourth vesicle—view from left side. of rhomboidal form, when viewed from above. The hind part of this fifth vesi- cle is drawn out into a tube, and is continuous with the cavity of the myelon. The combined cavities of the fourth and fifth vesicles form what is commonly known as the fourth, ventricle. We note that this fourth ventricle is connected with the third ventricle by the aqueduct, the other name of which, promised