THE ETHMOID BONE. 179 The external pterygoid j:)latc, broad and thin, lies in a plane directed back- ward. The internal surface afll'ords origin to the internal ])terygoid muscle, the external surface to the external pterygoid muscle. This plate forms the inner boundary of the zygomatic fossa, and the outer boundary of the pterygoid fossa, Avhich lies between and behind the two plates. The intermd pterygoid plate, longer and narrower than the external, forms the outer boundary of the posterior naris, where it is partly covered by the s))henoidal process of the palate-bone. From the up])er end of the internal surface on each side a thin plate, the vaginal process, projects inward to articulate with the ala of the vomei', and in front with the sphenoidal process of the palate, the latter converting a groove beneath the base of the vaginal process into the pterygo-palatine canal. Posteriorly at the base of the internal plate is the small pterygoid tubercle, between which and the lingula is the Vidian canal, and below which is the shallow scapjhoid fossa, in which the tensor palati muscle arises. The posterior border is prolonged below into the slender, Jiamular (" hook-like ") process, grooved externally above for the passage of the tendon of the tensor palati muscle. It is often to be felt behind and within the last upper molar tooth. In front the two plates are joined above, and form a smooth triangular surface, which makes the back wall of the spheno-maxil- lary fossa, and presents superiorly the anterior orifice of the Vidian canal. Below, the two plates are separated in front by the pterygoid notch, which is occupied by the pyramidal process of the palate-bone. The cartilage of the Eustachian tube is attached and supported along the hind, inner, and upper part of the internal plate. Articulations.—The sphenoid articulates with all the other bones of the cra- nium, which it binds firmly together, and with five of the facial bones—viz., two malar, two palate, and the vomer, and sometimes one or both superior maxillse. Varieties.—The ligaments normally connecting the clinoid processes may become ossified. The foramen of Vesalius, for an emissary vein, is sometimes present internal to the foramen ovale. Ossification occurs in cartilage from twelve centres in two divisions, a pre- and a post-sphenoid, which join at the olivary eminence, and are distinct in many animals. The sphenoidal sinuses begin to hollow out the body in the sixth year, before which they are confined to the sphenoidal turbinate bones, which develop separately in cartilage. THE ETHMOID BONE. The ethmoid or sieve-bone (Figs. 199-201) is roughly cuboidal, and projects downward from the ethmoidal notch of the frontal bone between the orbits to form part of the orbits, nasal fossse, and base of the cra- nium. It is very light, being largely composed of cavities bounded by thin walls. It consists of a ver- tical and a horizontal plate, and of two lateral masses, the last suspended from the margins of the horizontal plate. The vertical pkde forms the upper third of the median (though often deflected) se})tum of the nose, and is grooved for the olfactory nerves. It projects into the cranial cavity above the horizontal plate as the median triangular crista, galfi (" crest of the cock "). This is most ])romiuent in front, and along its thin posterior border it attaches the falx cerebri. In front it divides into two lateral alee, w^hich articulate Avith the frontal, and usually complete the foramen caecum. The vertical plate articulates in front with the nasal spine of the frontal and the crest of the nasal bones, below and in front with the triangular sej^tal cartilage, below and behind with the vomer, and behind with the crest of the sphenoid. Fig. 199—Diagram of the eth- moid bone in transverse, vertical section. (Testut.)