THE SKIN. 653 (Avhicli includes the four deep layers to be described) and a superficial, horny layer. Next to the true skin is a single layer of columnar cells, the parent cells of the I'est; then come polyhedral cells to a considerable depth, each communicating with its neighbors by strands of protoplasm, giving them a prickly appearance (hence the term " prickle cells "). This stratum is covered by two thin strata, which ex- hibit changes antecedent to their assuming the characters of the horny layer, namely the stratum granulosum and the stratum lucidum. Their peculiar a]>pear- ance is due to a progressive accumulation in droplets of a substance called eleidin. Superimposed on these is the horny layer (stratum corneum), the cells of which become gradually more flattened toward the surface, lose their nuclei, and have their substance converted into keratin. During life the superficial cells of this layer are being constantly shed and renewed from those beneath. The pigment in the skin of the negro, as well as that of the nipple and elsewhere in white races, is found in the deepest cells of the Malpighian layer. The True Skin (cutis vera, derma, corimii) consists of a fibrous matrix with vessels, lymphatics, and nerves embedded therein. It blends gradually with the superficial fascia, in which, with the exception of that on the jjenis, scrotum, labia minoi'a, and eyelids, clusters of fat cells are accumulated. This loose areolar subcutaneous layer enables the skin to move freely on the deep fascia. The true skin is formed of interlacing bundles of white fibrous tissue with numerous elastic fibres and connective-tissue corpuscles. In connection with the hairs, and in the cutis vera of the scrotum, penis, perineum, areola of the nipple, and the nipple itself, smooth muscular fibres are foinul in fasciculi. The free surface of the corium is raised to form the ridges already described as seen on the surface of the skin, and on their summits simple and compound papillce are developed, which are received into pits on the deep surface of the cuticle (Fig. 697). These papillte are most numerous where sensation is most acute, as on the Fig 697 —PapillEP of the skin. 'I lie i puli rims lias l>ccii It.iisciicd l.v iiiacrratKm .uid lifted off, and its under surface shows the pits into which the papiIUt lilted, sweat-glands are stretched or broken across. (Testut.) pulp of the fingers. On the palm, sole, and nipple they are numerous and measure from ^^-^ to -j-oir i"*^'^ height. They are few and small on the face, and in some parts are altogether absent. Some of these papilla? have vascular loops prolonged into them, some have touch-corpuscles (Fig. 698). The bloodvessels of the skin are found in the cutis vera only. They form a capillary network from which branches pass to the hairs, glands, and fat, and capillary loops project into the papillae. The lymphatics form a deep and super-