THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 720 called villi, which are so abundant as to give a velvety appearance to the surface. They are organs of absorption. Their number has been variously estimated at from four to ten millions. In the upper pai't of the intestine they are so closely set as to seem to leave no space between. The tallest are scarcely one twenty- fifth of an inch in height. In shape they are commonly cylindrical ; but conical, filiform, mammillary, and lamellar varieties are observed. A lymph-vessel (lac- teal) occupies the centre of the villus, a plexus of capillary blood-vessels surrounds this, a few threads of smooth muscle run up from the de2:)ths of the membrane, all these are embedded in a mass of nucleated cells, and the whole vilhis is cov- ered by the columnar epithelium already mentioned. The Valvulae Conniventes.—Another feature which characterizes this tunic and is observed from an inch or two below the pylorus to within a foot or more of the end of the gut, is the ])resence of transverse folds of mucous membrane, each strengthened internally by a projection from the areolar coat. They are called valmdcK conniventes ("winking-valves"). Unlike the rugte of the stomach, which are effaced when that organ is filled, they are not obliterated by the dis- tension of the intestine. This permanency is due to several causes. First, these projections ai"e not produced by a wrinkling of the membrane during relaxation, as are the ridges of the stomach, but are actual outgrowths of the mucosa, giving it an immense increase of surface, even during distension. Second, the valves do not extend completely around the circumference, but only a quarter, half, or (rarely) three-quarters way round, one considerably overlapping the lines of its next neighbors, and thus guarding against the effacement which might occur during extreme stretching, if each of them described a complete circle. In other words, an internal pressure, which might be able to unfold a perfect ring, is thwarted by a device which distributes that force to several sepa- rate segments and to a considerable extent of surface. And, third, the transverse arrangement of the valves is more favorable to their continuance than the longitudi- nal would be, as the stretching of the tube from within takes place almost altogether laterally and but sliglitly lengthwise, and, consequently, these folds are subjected to hardly any strain in these circumstances. The valvulse conniventes are somewhat crescentic in shape, may be as much as a fourth or third of an inch deep in the middle, and diminish in depth toward the ends, which often bifurcate, and finally shade off' into the surrounding surface. There are usually eight or nine liundred of them. Glands in the Mucosa.—Almost the entii-e substance of the coriuni is occuj)ied by tubular depressions, which are lined with epithelium, very similar to that on the exposed surface, being columnar with fi-equent inter- FiG. 77i.-intestinai gland ruptions by goblet cells. Thcsc are the intestinal glands, in^iongitudinai section. (Tes- frequently called the follicles or crypts of Lieher- kiihn (Fig. 771). Their secretion is chiefly intestinal juice, though they furnish also some of the mucus, which is always present. Lymph-structures in the Mucosa.—Embedded in the mucous coat and often encroaching upon the areolar are little globular or ovoid bodies, one-twelfth inch or less in diameter, which are structurally closely related to the lymjjh-nodes, being composed of a multitude of leucocytes, held together by an adenoid reticu- lar framework, and drained by lymphatic vessels. They are sprinkled rather uniformly throughout the length of the viscus, though in some spots they are scarce, in others very numerous. They are the solitarj/ h/mph-nodnles, but they are most frequently called snlifary glands (Fig. 772), though no more entitled to the name than are the nodes, which occur in the course of lymphatic vessels,