PRACTICAL A NATO 31Y. 885 sensitiveness with a coat which is in any degree contaminated by contact with dissecting material, however well preserved the latter may be. Avoidance of Publicity.—The beginner in practical anatomy is usually so impressed with the novelty and interest of his work that he talks about it when among non-medical people, forgetting that to many of them the mention of such topics is offensive. In the interest of his own standing and of the repute of the profession he would far better maintain the strictest reticence in all such matters. Dissect Often!—Finally, in way of general advice, the student is counselled to lose no opportunity to dissect, bearing in mind that the most accomplished anato- mists never consider themselves so perfect in their knowledge that they cannot learn something by another dissection. Implements Needed.—The following instruments the student should provide himself with : a large scalpel, a small scalpel, both with the cutting edge markedly convex, a cartilage knife, a pair of scissors, best curved on the flat, a dissecting forceps, a tenaculain, a pair of hooks connected by a chain, a grooved director, a small blow-pipe, and a foot of rubber-tubing to fit onto the large end, and a large straight needle. The chisel, saw, and hammer, which he will need at times, are a part of the furnishings of the dissecting-room. Additionally he should procure some coarse thread for sewing the skin over the dissection at the close of the day ; a pint of the preservative mentioned elsewhere in these directions; a piece of cotton cloth, large enough to enwrap his part of the subject; an ounce of vaseline for his hands; and a good hone and strop for sharpening his knives— the strop never to be employed for other instruments after having been used for dissecting scalpels. He would do well to have his own cake of soap, nail-brush, and towels, for manifest reasons. The instruments, especially those for cutting, should be of excellent quality. There is no economy in buying inferior tools. After the day's dissecting is done, every instrument which has been used should be scrupulously cleansed, dried, and made ready for the next session. The hands should be washed with hot water and soap, particular attention being bestowed upon the nails. DIVISION OF THE CADAVER. The number of parts into which the body is divided for dissection purposes varies greatly in diiferent schools ; but the method of presentation here adopted will readilv lend itself to any division which may be preferred. The organs in a given region are mentioned in the order in which they are encountered in dissecting. The name of each is followed by a numeral which refers to the page of this book upon which it is described, with the exception that a few of the references direct attention to pictures, which are especiallv ser- viceable in dissecting, and from which the verbal descriptions can readily be turned to. Many parts are entered more than once in the enumerations, because they occur in two or more regions. The small branches of arteries are not generally given, as they will naturally attract attention in connection with the trunks from which they spring. The same omission is commonly made in the case of veins which ai'e companion to arteries of the same name. Reference to a viscus is intended to include its parts, as ducts, vessels, etc. It is assinned that the dissection is done under the personal supervision of a competent demonstrator, who will prescribe the order in which parts are to be taken, and will give all necessary instructions as to the best method of making primary incisions, reflecting and removing parts, and displaying whatever requires demonstration—points upon which equally competent teachers differ—and, there- fore, specific directions on such matters are not here given.