THE TEMPORAL BONE. 171 ethmoidal cells and the anierior and posterior ethmoidal cancds. The anterior canals transmit the nasal nerve and anterior ethmoidal vessels ; the posterior canal, the posterior ethmoidal vessels. The cerebral surface forms a deep concavity, encroached upon but slightly by the convexity of the ujjper surfaces of the orbital plates, which form the greater part of the floor of the anterior cranial fossa. The orbital j)lates and the adjoin- ing bone present marked depressions and ridges for the frontal convolutions. TROCH LEAR FOSSA Fig. 191.—The frontal bone, seen from below. (Testut.) Elsewhere the bone is smoother, except for a median furrow, the fronted sulms. This starts from the upper border, with pits for Pacchionian bodies on both sides, and narrows down below to the thin prominent fronted crest. The superior longi- tudinal sinus is lodged in the sulcus, and the falx cerebri is attached to the crest and the ridges of the sulcus. The termination of the crest, by articulation with the crista galli of the ethmoid, completes the foreimen ccccum (" blind hole "). When not closed below, this foramen transmits a small vein from the nose. Borders and Articulations.—The posterior border articulates with the parietal bone in the coroned suture, nearly as far outward as a rough triangular surface. This triangular surface articulates with the great wing of the sphenoid, forming the posterior half of the outer margin of the orbital ])]ate. It is continuous behind with the thin posterior margin of the orbital plate, which articulates with the small wing of the sphenoid. The malar bone articulates with the fore part of the outer margin of the orbital plate. The parallel inner borders of the orbital surface articulate with the os planum of the ethmoid behind and the lachrymal in front. The margins of the ethmoidal notch articulate with the cribriform plate of the ethmoid laterally, and the crista galli in front. (The articulations of the nasal notch and spine have been described above.) Ossificedion proceeds from two centres in the membrane at the site of the frontal eminences. At birth there are two separate lateral halves, soon united by the median frontal or metopic suture, which is usually oblitei'ated by ossification, ex- cept for a trace at the glabella, but sometimes persists throughout life. The frontal sinuses appear about the seventh year as forward growths from the ante- rior ethmoidal cells, and increase up to old age. They may invade the roof of the orbit quite extensively. THE TEMPORAL BONE. The tempoi-al ("temple") bone (F'}gs. 192-195) forms part of the side and base of the skull, contains the organ of hearing, and articulates with the lower jaw. Although it is usually described in three parts—viz. squamous, mastoid, and petrous—^the three parts separable at birth are the squamous, petro-mastoid, and tympanic. The Squamous Portion.—This is a thin plate, extending upward and forward at right angles to the petrous, and foiuns part of the side-w^all of the middle fossa of the skull. The oider surface, but slightly convex, is smooth, except for a ver- tical groove above the external auditory meatus for the middle temporal artery.