51 801 THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. By G. D. STEWART. THE MALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. THE reproductive organs of the male may be divided into essential and acces- sory. The former are the te.^ficles, two glandidar organs, which produce the spermatozoa. The accessory organs are (1) a long canal from each testicle, by means of which the spermatozoa are conveyed into the vagina of the female. This canal is divided into the vas deferens, the ejaculatory dud, and the urethra—the last being single and also belonging to the urinary system. (2) The seminal vesicles, reservoirs of the semen ; (3) the prostate which adds an element to the semen as it passes outward ; (4) the bulho-urctJiral glands (Cowper's), which also contribute to the volume of the semen ; (5) the scrotum, a pouch, consisting of a series of concentric layers, which envelop the testicles; and (6) the penis, the organ of copulation, which encloses the extrapelvic portion of the urethra, and wliich, when erect, effects the discharge of the semen into the vagina. THE TESTICLES. The testicles ("little witnesses" to masculinity), or testes (Figs. 870, 871), are two glandular organs which produce the spermatozoa, the principal element of the seminal fluid. They are suspended from the inguinal region by the s])er- matic cords, and are surrounded and further supported by the scrotum. The left, as a rule, is a little lower than the right, and its spermatic cord is thus a littlt! the longer. Each gland is from one and a half to two inches in length, one and one-quarter inch in width from before backward, a little less than an inch in thickness (measured transversely), and weighs from five to eight drachms. The consistence of the testicle is peculiar, varying somewhat according to the condi- tion of its seminiferous canals. When the latter are engorged it is firm ; when they are empty, it is soft. Each gland is divided into two parts—the testicle ]iro])er and the ejiididymis. The latter must be regarded as the first segment of a canal through which the spermatozoa, after leaving the testicle, must pass to reach the urethra ; but it is so intimately coimected with the testicle that it may be described with that structure. The testicle proper is ovoid, flattened transversely, and presents two surfaces, two borders, and two extremities. The external surface is convex and turned outward and a little backward ; the internal, almost flat, looks in the ojiposite direction. The anterior border is convex and turned slightly downward ; the posterior, almost straight, is directed upward and backward and has attached along its whole length the epididymis. The superior extremity is rounded, and occu])ies a ]»lane a little external and anterior to the more jiointed inferior ex- tremity. The latter gives origin to a fibro-muscular band, the scrotal lif/aincnt, which is attached by its distal end to the bottom of the scrotum, thus fixing the testicle to its envelops.