544 THE CEBEBBO-SPINAL AXIS. best be studied in connection with the picture (Fig. 601). From before backward are seen in the vermis the nodule, the uvula, the pyramid, and the dorsal tuber (tuber posticum); and in the hemisphere theJiocculus (" little tuft of wool"), the amygdala (" almond"), the biventral or digastric lobe, the slender lobe, and the dorso-inferior lobe. The uvula and amygdalee are so named on account of their Fig. 601.—Under surface of cerebellum, 'lln- lieiuisiilieres are jinlled apart to give a view ot the inferior vermis. Tlie nodule does not appear; the tuber is nut labelled. Compare with scheme of this surface. (Testut.) resemblance to the parts of the same name in the pharynx, as seen through the open mouth. The fissures are named from their position with reference to the nodule, the pyramid, and the slender lobe—the postnodulctr fissu7-e, the pre- pyramidal fissure, the postpyramidal fissure, and the postgracile fi.ssure. Under Surface of Cerebellum. VERMIS. HEMISPHERE. NODULE. FLOCCULUS. POSTNODULAR FISSURE. UVULA, AMYGDALA. PBEPYRAMIDAL FISSURE. PYRAMID. DIGASTRIC LOBE. POSTPYRAMIDAL FISSURE. {SLENDER LOBE. POSTGRACILE FISSURE. DORSO-INFERIOR LOBE. Embedded in each hemisphere is a nucleus, called the corpus dentattm (" toothed body") from its jagged outline (Fig. 602). Its centre is white, and on the mesial side near the front the gray wall is deficient. Near tliis are three other masses of gray of small size—^the nucleus emboliformis (" pluglike "), the nucleus globosus (" spherical"), and the nucleus fastigii (" of the summit"). The general method of arrangement of the fibres traced into the cerebellum from its peduncles is shown in Fig. 603. The superior peduncle is mainly made up of fibres from the corpus dentatum and the cerebellar cortex. The middle peduncle is composed of fibres from cells in the cortex. They run to cells on both sides of the pons, and do not, as gross appearances suggest, go around from one side of the cerebellum to the other. The inferior pechmcle receives fibres from cells of the cerebellar cortex and the oblon- gata, from the direct cerebellar tract of the spinal cord, and from the nuclei gracilis and cuneatus.