THE 3£USCLES. 278 flexed, and this fact explains the difficulty experienced by pianists in lifting the annularis separately from the keys. Nerve, the posterior interosseous branch of the musculo-spiral. Extensor Minimi Digiti (Figs. 310-313).—"The extensor of the smallest digit"—/. e., of the little finger. Synonym, extensor digiti quinti proprius, "the proper extensor of the fifth digit"—"proper" to distinguish it from the part of the extensor communis which acts upon this finger. Situation, in the back of the forearm and hand. Origin, the external condyle of the humerus. Insertion: its tendon, which is commonly split, blends with the fourth tendon of the extensor communis above the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, and the resulting tendon goes to the second and third phalanges of the little finger (see extensor communis digitorum). Action, extension of the second and third ])halanges of the little finger. Nerve, posterior interosseous branch of the musculo-spiral. Extensor Indicis (Figs. 299, 314).—" The extensor of the index finger." Syno- nyms, extensor indicis proprius, "the proper extensor of the index finger"— " proper " to distinguish it from the part of the extensor communis which acts upon this digit; the indicator muscle. Situation, the back of the lower part of the forearm and hand. Origin, the back of the ulna below the extensor longus poUicis, and a little of the interosseous membrane. Direction, doAvnward and outward. Insertion, the fii'st tendon of the extensor coinmunis digitorum, near the metacarpo-phalangeal joint (see extensor communis digitorum). Action, exten- sion and slight adduction of the index. Nerve, the posterior interosseous branch of the musculo-spiral. Interossei Dorsales (Fig. 315).—" The muscles between the bones on the back " X X Fio. 315.—Interossei dorsales of right hand. The line xxis that from which abduction is made. (Testut.) of the hand. Number, four. The first and largest is called abductor indicis, "the abductor of the index finger." The abductor minimi digiti belongs func- tionally in this group ; but it is not interosseous. Situation, one in each meta- carpal interspace near the dorsal aspect. Origin, each from the two bones