422 THE BLOOD-VASCULAB SYSTEM. dyle, where it anastomoses with the superior profunda of the brachial. Mus- cular branches are given off' from the radial to the muscles of the forearm with which it is in contact. The anterio'r carpal branch of the radial supplies the anterior surface of the carpus, anastomosing with the anterior ulnar carpal artery. The superficialis vol(s arises from the artery above the wrist, passes througli tlie muscles of the thenar eminence, and anastomoses with the super- ficial palmar arch. The branches in the u-rist are the posterior carpal, the first dorsal inter- osseous, the dorsal artery of the thumb, and the dorsal artery of the index finger. The posterior carpal (Fig. 467) supplies the posterior surface of the carpus, anas- tomosing with the posterior carpal branch of the ulnar. The first dorsal inter- osseous a/tery supplies the interosseous space between the index and middle fingers. The dorsal arteri/ of the thumb (dorsalis pollicis) runs over the dorsal Fig. 466.—Horizontal section at middle of right forearm—upper surface of lower segment. (After Braune.) aspect of the thumb, dividing into two branches, which supply both sides of the dorsum of tlie thumb. The dorsal artery of the index finger (dorsalis indicis) sup- plies the outer side of the dorsal surfiice of the index finger. In the hand the radial gives oft' the following branches—the main arterv of the thumb (princeps pollicis), the radial artery of the index finger, tlie perforating, the interosseous, and the recurrent. The princeps pollicis passes downward in front of the metacarpal bone of the thumb to its head, where it divides into two branches, which supply the inner and outer surfiices of the thumb. The radialis indicis passes along the radial side of the metacarpal bone of the index finger, and supplies the radial side of this digit to its tip. The deep pahriar arch (Fig. 468) is situated on the bases of the metacarpal bones, witli the flexor tendons in front; it is completed by the anastomosing of the radial with the deep communicating branch of the ulnar. The dee]i arch is about half an inch nearer the wrist than the superficial. From the arch are given off' the interosseous arteries, three in