716 THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. passes upward and to the left to the diaphragm, is in contact with the under sur- face of the latter for some distance, sweeps downward in a generous curve with its convexity to the left, continues in a somewhat flattened line to the right, is here a little indented, and finally turns abruptly up and back, terminating at the outlet-end, close to the small curvature. Particular attention is called to the following facts : the general direction of the long axis of the stomach is vertical; the small curvature faces mostly to the right; the great curvature is directed mainly to the left; the aperture of entrance (oesophageal opening) is but slightly to the left of the middle line of the body, and looks downward ; the hole of exit (intestinal opening) is on a lower plane, close to the mid line, and looks directly backward—a point not well shown in Fig. 764. The curvatures or borders are the lines of reflection of the peritoneum. The preceding statements apply to the organ when it is not distended ; but, when it is distended, some differences are observed. Then the great curvature is tilted toward the front, the small end is moved two inches or more toward the right, and the pressure on the diaphragm may be such as to interfere seriously with the freedom of action of the heart, which is situated in jiart immediately over the stomach on the upper surface of the diaphragm. The large end of the stomach is called, on account of its nearness to the heart, the cardiac end, or simply the cardia ; the small is named the pyloric end, from the pylorus, presently to be described. The before-mentioned indentation of the great curvature near the lower end is a part of a slight constriction, and the portion of the cavity between it and the intestinal opening is called the antrum jyyloricum ("pyloric cave"). The Tunics of the Stomach. The tunics of the stomach conform to the rule previously stated. The Serosa.—Passing from the transverse fissure of the liver are two layers of serous membrane, which constitute the gastro-hepedic ("stomach-liver") omentum. After continuing downward for about two inches, they reach the small curvature of the stomach, where they divide, clothe respect- ively the front and back surfaces of this viscus, meet along the great curvature, unite again, and continue downward to help form the great omentum. A very narrow strip of uncovered surface may be found along each of the two curvatures, indicating respectively the places of separation and reunion of the peritoneal lamellje. The adhesion of the serosa is closest at the centre of the front and back surfaces, but gradually becomes looser toward the borders. The Muscular Coat has two com- plete layers—an outer, longitudinal, and an inner, circular (Fig. 765). Besides these two distinct layers some oblique fasciculi are found, internal to the circular. This criss- cross arrangement of the layers contributes greatly to the strength of the stomach- walls. The circular layer increases in thickness toward the small end, and there is such an augmentation of its fibres around the intestinal opening as to con- FiG. 7fio.—Diagram to show the direction of the fibres in the three muscular layers. (Testut.)