THE EAR. 677 the stapes to the membrane of the fenestra ovalis, ligaments running to different parts of the bony walls servo to hold the ossieles in place. Muscles of the Tympanum.—Two muscles are connected with the series of ossicles, the tensor tympani and the stapedius. The tensor tympani (" tightener of the drum") (Fig. 727) is principally situ- ated in the canal above the Eustachian tube. Its tendon bends outward on escaping from the canal, and is inserted into the handle of the malleus near the neck. Contraction of the muscle pulls the membrane of the drum inward, and thns tightens it. The stapedius arises in the cavity of the pyramid, from the apex of which its tendon passes forward into the tympanic cavity, and is inserted into the neck of the stapes. This muscle rocks the base of the stapes in the fenestra ovalis, and thus causes pressure n])on the perilymph of the labyrinth. The mucous membrane of the tympanum projects from the roof into the cavity in several folds, which are very variable in number, foi'm, and size. The epi- thelium of the mucosa is partly columnar and ciliated, and for the rest flattened and not ciliated. Just below the j^yramid the chorda tynvpani nerve enters the middle ear, and runs forward across the handle of the malleus to its aperture of exit near the Glaserian fissure. Like the other intratympanic structures it is invested with mucosa. THE EXTERNAL EAR. The external ear comprises (1) the external auditory meatus, the tube leading from the outer wall of the tympanum to the surface of the head, and (2) the auricle or pinna, the flaring body, which projects from the side of the head. The External Auditory Meatus (Fig. 728) is about an inch long. It is of .FENESTRA OVALIS CLOSED BY STAPES Fig. 728.—Vertical section through the external auditory meatus and tympanum, passing in front of the fenestra ovalis. (Testut.) greatest diameter near its outer end, and of least near its middle part. Its direc- tion varies in different portions. As it is traced inward, it goes at first forward and upward, then backward, and finally forward and downward ; but its domi- nant trend is inward and forw-ard. The tube rises toward the middle of its course,