THE PENIS. 815 and hollowed to receive the tips of the cavernous bodies, as already mentioned, is not at right angles to the long axis of the penis, hut so placed that it extends farther backward on the dorsal than on the ventral aspect of that organ. The prominent border of the base is called the corona r/laiuVis; the constricted portion of the body behind this, the cervix. The external surface of the glans is smooth, and presents below a longitudinal groove, which begins a little behind the meatus, extends backward, and lodges the frenum of the prepuce. Structure.—The cor])iis spongiosum is composed of a thin layer of erectile tissue, which surrounds the urethra and is enclosed in a fibrous sheath. It there- fore resembles the cavernous bodies ; but the sheath is thinner and contains more elastic fibres, and the areolje are smaller. The erectile layer of the bulb is thickened and prolonged backward, so as to surround the membranous and pros- tatic portions of the ui'ethra. The erectile structure of the glans is continuous with that of the spongy body, from which, however, it is derived only in small part, the greater portion being developed from the integumental tissues which invest the glans (Retterer). Its trabeculfe are very coarse, its areola small. During erection the corpus spongiosum never attains the same degree of rigidity as the cavernous bodies. The Envelops of the Penis, four in number, are concentrically arranged around the erectile cylinders. Thev are from without inward as follows : (1) the integu- ment ; (2) the dartos ; (3) an areolar layer ; (4) the fascia of the penis. The cutaneous envelop (Figs. 882, 88,3, 886) is (continuous with the integument of the pubic region and scrotum l)ehind, and in fi'ont assists in forming the prepuce. It is thin, deeply pigmented, and free from fat; contains abundant elastic tissue ; and is remarkable for its dis- tensibility and the laxity of its attachment to the subjacent tissues. It is studded with sel)aceous glands, and presents a median raphe on the under (hind) surface of the penis, continuous with that of the scrotuui. The prepuce, or foreskin, is a tegumentary fold, disposed like a cuif around the glans. It is formed as follows: just behind the cervix the integument leaves the surface of the penis and is continued forward for a varying distance, forming the outer layer of the ])repuce ; then it turns backward within itself, form- ing the inner layer, and rejoins the surface at the level of the cervix. From this point the integument is reflected anew over the cervix and glans, to which it is intimately adherent, finally becoming continuous at the meatus with the raucous membrane of the urethra. Thus constituted, the prepuce presents two surfaces, outer and innei-, and an anterior opening, the preputial orifice. Belo\v, it is drawn forward in a median fold, the frenum, which occupies the ventral groove on the o-lans, and is attached a little behind the urinary meatus. The integ-u- ment, which forms the inner surface of the jjrepuce and covers the cervix and glans, is so modified in character as to resemble mucous membrane. Over the cervix and corona it is studded with nnmerous sebaceous follicles, the glanduke odoriferce, the secretion of which, added to the desquamated epithelial cells of this vicinity, forms a whitish substance of ])cculiar odor, the smegma jprceputii (" unguent of the foreskin The integument over the glans adheres closely to the erectile tissue beneath, possesses only rudimentary sebaceous follicles, and is beset with large nervous and vascular papillre. The dartos layer is continuous with a similar structure in the scrotum, and is MEATUS Fig. 883.—Glans penis, umU r siirlace. (Testut.)