446 THE BLOOD-VASCVLAR SYSTEM. of the profunda. The azygos articular penetrates the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, and supplies the intra-articular ligaments and synovial membrane. The Posterior Tibial Artery (Fig. 482). / The posterior tibial artery is the larger of the two terminal branches of the popliteal, and appears as though it were the continuation of the latter. It passes down the leg on the tibial side between the deep and superficial layers of mus- cles on the back of the leg, covered also by the deep transverse fascia of the leg, until it reaches the inner ankle, where it divides into the internal and external plantar arteries. The important points to be remembered in regard to the course of the posterior tibial are that it is on the tibial side of the leg, between the deep and superficial layers of muscles, covered also by the deep trans- verse fascia of the leg, and accompanied by the posterior tibial nerve and vense comites. Relations of the Posteeiok Tibial Artery. In front. Tibialis posterior muscle. Flexor longus digitorum. Tibia. Ankle-joint. Inner side. Vena comes. Posterior tibial artery. Outer side. Vena comes. Behind. Skin, superficial and deep fasciae. Gastrocnemius. Soleus. Deep transverse fascia. Posterior tibial nerve. Variations.—The posterior tibial may be small, its place being taken by a large peroneal artery. The vessel may arise from a high division of the popliteal. Surgical Anatomy (Fig. 483).—In amputa- tions of the leg the posterior tibial is found between the superficial and deep muscles on the tibial side. Ligations of the posterior tibial may be required for injury or aneurism. The vessel may be ligated at any part of its course. In the middle of the leg the artery can be exposed by an incision a finger's breadth behind and parallel with the inner border of the tibia. The skin, superficial and deep fascige are divided, the tibial origin of the soleus is exposed and divided, and the deep transverse fascia, which now comes into view, is also divided. The vessel is found accompanied by the posterior tibial nerve and the .—Arteries in the dorsal part (Testut.)