THE BONES. 168 dylar foramen is subdivided by a thin bony spicule. Rarely the basilar process at the margin of the foramen articulates with the odontoid process. A median membranous space from the foramen magnum backward to the middle of the supraoccipital is of intei'est, because in rai^e cases, when not ossified, it may allow hernia of the brain and its membranes. Articulations.—By sutures the occipital bone is connected with the two parie- tals, the two temporals, and the sphenoid, and by the condyles it articulates with the atlas. THE PARIETAL BONE. The parietal ("wall") bones (Figs. 187, 188) are two symmetrical, quadri- lateral plates which form a large part of the vault and sides of the skull, and are interposed between the frontal and the occipital bones. The external surface is convex, the convexity being greatest near the centre, at the parietal eminence, most marked in young bones. Arching across the bone just below this are the mperior and inferior temporal ridges, the bone between which is smoother than elsewhere. The loiver ridge, better marked and more constant, limits the temporal fossa and the attachment of the temporal muscle. The upper ridge, when present, gives attachment to the temporal fascia. The surface above it is covered by fascia and the scalp. Not far from the hind end of the upper border is the small parietal foramen when present. The internal surface is concave, and marked by shallow depressions and ridges for the cerebral convolutions, and by narrow grooves for branches of the middle meningeal artery, which run upward and backward from below. The largest of these runs from the projecting anterior inferior angle, often as a canal, for a short dis- tance, and is useful in determin- ing the side to which the bone belongs. Along the superior bor- der is a half-groove, completed by the one on the 02)posite bone, and lodging the superior longitu- dinal sinus. Near this groove, in bones of adults, and especially of the aged, small irregular de- pressions for the Pacchionian bodies are seen. A small part of the groove for the lateral sinus often crosses the inner aspect of the posterior inferior angle. Borders.—The superior, ante- rior, and posterior borders are deeply serrated, and the latter two, and to a less extent the first, are alternately bevelled at the ex- pense of the outer and inner surfaces, thus alternately overlapping and being overlapped by the adjacent bones. The bone is thus so strongly wedged in as to The right parietal bone, outer surface. ANTERIOR ANGLE Fig. 188.—The right parietal bone, inner surface. (Testut.)