METHODS OF STUD Y. 33 addition to all this, it brings the individual into conscious relation with the world around him through the medium of the organs of special sense. Without this last service our lives would be purely vegetative. Organs of Reproduction. The functions of the organs thus far mentioned concern only the individual, providing, first, for his preservation, and, second, for his relation to the things around him. There are other organs—not, however, in a condition of functional activity during the whole of life—which are necessary to the preservation of the race. These are the organs of generation. One series of them is present in the female, and its chief members are the ovaries, which furnish eggs; the Fallopian tubes, by which the eggs are conducted to the womb (uterus); the womb itself, in which the eggs, if fertilized, may remain during the period of pregnancy ; the vagina, which receives the penis of the male in copulation and gives passage to the young when the time for its birth has arrived ; and the mamnue, from which the progeny obtain sustenance for a considerable period. The other set of organs belongs to the male, and its principal parts are the testicles, which furjiish the essential part of the semen for the impregnation of the eggs; certain tubest by which the semen flows to tlie uretJtra, the conduit common to the urine and the generative fluid ; and, finally, the j^cii/x, the member by which sexual connection is elFected and the male product deposited in the female generative passages. THE ORDER OF TOPICS. The chapters in this book are arranged substantially in the conventional order. First comes a brief presentation of the elementary tissues, followed immediately by a chapter on embryology. Then succeeds the descriptive anatomy, in which the organs are treated in systems, and after this the topographical, which deals with the relations of the different organs to each other. That the account of the histologic materials composing the various organs should precede the description of these structures, and that the mutual relations of the latter should not be presented until the organs themselves have been described, are so logically necessary as to require no explanation. But the suc- cession 6f topics in the systematic anatomy should be made to vary according to circumstances. If the learner is studying anatomy only, the arrangement set fortli in the table of contents is useful. But if he is studying physiology at the same time, he would do well so to modify the order that he may obtain a knowledge of the structure of each organ just before its function is considered. As physiology is concerned largely with the contents of the cavities of the body, this plan will involve the study of the viscera, including the brain and cord, early in the course. Any hours which are fairly due to anatomy and are not consumed in this prepa- ration for the profitable study of functions should be devoted to osteology, and after this has been mastered the topics would best be taken up in the order as stated—joints, muscles, fascise, vessels, and nerves. METHODS OF STUDY. Any work which is done according to a prearranged system is more econom- ical of time and eflbrt and more productive of desirable residts than that which is done in an unmethodical way. It is particularly imjiortant for the student of anatomy to follow lines wisely laid down for his guidance, because of tlie limited time at his disposal in which to acquire a mastery of the multitude of facts need- ful for his subsequent progress. Some words of counsel, therefore, are here offered as to the methods of study which experience has shown to be advantageous. 3