183 THE PALATE-BONE. to them and the two foramiyia of Scarpa, which are placed in front of and behind the former in the median suture, and transmit the naso-palatine nerves. In young bones the premaxillary suture extends from this fossa on each side to, but not through, the outer alveolar border, internal to the canine socket. The part in front of this suture represents the premaxillary bone of the lower animals, and includes the incisor teeth. It is separately formed, and sometimes remains sep- arate on one or both sides in cases of cleft-palate. The antrum of Highmore, or maxillari/ .^inus, is a pyramidal air-chamber occu- pying the body of the bone. Its thin walls correspond to the surfaces of the body. The apex corresponds to the niahir process, and the base to the nasal surface, the large opening in which is partly closed by the palate-bone behind, the inferior tur- binate bone inferiorly, and the uncinate pro- cess of the ethmoid and the lachrymal above and in front. It is made still smaller by the mucous membrane, and opens into the middle meatus of the nose by one or some- times two apertures. Along the lower angle the roots of the first two molars often project into the cavity. The antrum may some- times be partly, rarely completely, sub- divided. Articulations.—The maxilla articulates with its fellow and with the nasal, frontal, lachrymal, ethmoid, palate, vomer, inferior turbinate, and malar bones, and sometimes with the sphenoid. Ossification occurs early in membrane from four centres, and some of the lines between the parts are often to be seen in the young adult bone, especially in the floor of the orbit. The antrum appears in fa'tal life. THE PALATE-BONE. The palate-bone (Figs. 205, 206) is L-shaped, and is wedged in between the maxilla and the pterygoid process of the sphenoid, forming the back part of the hard palate, of the lateral wall of the nose, and of the floor of the orbit. It has a horizontal and a vertical ]ilate, united at a right angle. The tuberosity projects backward and outward from the rear of this angle, and the vertical plate is surmounted by two processes, the orbital and sphenoidal. The horizontal plate completes the hard palate, and presents a smooth, concave upper surface and a rough lotver surface. The latter presents behind a transverse ridge which attaches the aponeurosis of the soft palate, connected with the tensor palati muscle. The anterior border articulates with the palate process of the maxilla ; the internal border articulates with its fellow, forming the continuation of the nasal crest which supports the vomer, and ends at the posterior border in the jjosterior nasal spine. The free and sharp posterior border bounds the posterior nares inferiorly, and attaches the soft palate. The vertical plate is thin and presents a rough outer surface, which, applied against the maxilla, completes the gi'oove near its hind border into the pos^mor palatine canal. Behind the groove is a smooth surface superiorly, foi'ming part of the inner wall of the spheno-maxillary fossa, below which the surface is rough for articulation with the pterygoid process and the maxilla successively. In front this surface overlaps the opening of the antrum by a thin projection, the maxil- lary process. The inner or nascd surface presents the hind part of the inferior and middle meatuses of the nose, each limited above by a transverse ridge or crest, Fig. 204.—The maxillary sinus uml the inner wall of the orbit. The apex of the sinus and the outer wall of the orbit have been removed. (Testut.)