807 THE VAS DEFERENS. projection of about tlie same size, is seated either on the front of the globus major, the upper extremity of the testicle, or between the two. It is nearly always present, is sometimes divifled into several lobes, and contains in its centre a tubular cavity or canal, which either ends in blind extremities or becomes continuous with a seminiferous canal. Morphologically, this body represents the peritoneal end of the duct of Miiller, and is, therefore, homologous with the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube in the female. Sometimes, indeed, it may be found as an empty orifice with fringed borders. The organ of Giraldes or paradidymis ("beside the testicle"), a small, irregular, yellowish-white patch, which lies in front of the cord, immediately above the head of the ej^ididymis and beneath the funicular portion of the tunica vaginalis, is made up of several small nodules, each containing a blind convoluted tube, lined with cylindrical, ciliated epithelium. It is a relic of the inferior portion -of the Wolffian body. THE VAS DEFERENS. VAS DEFERENS-/ UPPER LIMIT OF VESICULA BEFORE BEING UNRAVELED The vas deferens (" vessel carrying away") (Figs. 874, 875) is the prolonga- tion of the canal of the epididymis, and extends from the tail of the latter to the base of the prostate gland. It varies in length from six- teen to twenty inches, is cylin- drical in outline througliout the greater part of its course, and has an average diameter of about one-tenth of an inch. The vas travels upward in the spermatic cord, and may be divided into four portions as follows : (1) testicular; (2) funicular; (3) inguinal ; (4) abdomino-pelvic. Direction and Relations.— The testicular portion, mark- edly tortuous, runs from its origin upward and a little forward, to about the middle of the testicle. It lies to the inner side of the epididymis and behind the testicle, and is separated from both by the spermatic vessels and nerves. The funicular portion is straight, and is continued vertically upward to the ex- ternal abdominal ring, lying behind the spermatic artery, nerves, and anterior group of veins, but in front of the posterior veins. The inguinal portion occupies the inguinal canal. The ahdomino-pelvic division is, in the greater part of its course, retro-peritoneal. At the internal abdominal ring it leaves the spermatic vessels and turns inward, curving around the outer side of the deep epigastric artery. Crossing the external iliac vessels on their inner side, it then enters the pelvis close to the ilio-pubic suture, and curves downward and backward on the lateral wall of tlie bladder, crossing in this part of its course obliquely and to the vesical side of the obliterated hypogastric artery and the ureter. The terminal segment of tliis division, about two inches in length, runs forward between the bladder and the rectum. It is dilated, flattened from EJACULATORY DUCT Fig. 874.—Right seminal vesicle, unraveled and viewed from behind. (Testut.)