408 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. spinal descends along the cord in front of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, and communicates with the lateral spinal. The poderior inferior cerebellar artery supplies the posterior and inferior surfaces of the cerebellum, and gives off small branches to the medulla and the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle. The Basilar Artery (Figs. 454, 455) is formed by the union of the vertebral arteries; it runs forward and upward in the groove on the under surface of the pons, and divides into the posterior cerebral arteries. In its course it gives off as branches the transverse, the anterior inferior cerebellar and superior cerebellar arteries. The transverse arteries supply the pons, and one branch enters the internal auditory meatus with the facial and auditory nerve. The anterior infe- rior cerebellar arteries supply the anterior portion of the inferior surface of the cerebellum. The superior cerebellar arteries wind backward and upward to the upper surface of the cerebellum, which they supply. Fig. 454—Arteries at the base of the brain, seen in their relations to the skull. (Testut.) The terminal branches of the basilar, the posterior cerebral arteries, are ves- sels of large size, which anastomose with the posterior communicating to com- plete the circle of Willis behind. They pass to the under surface of the occipital lobe, which they supply ; giving off also a choroid branch. With this knowledge of the distribution of the internal carotid and vertebral arteries, we can study the free anastomosis of the arteries at the base of the brain, known as the circle of Willis. The Circle ofWillis is formed in front by the anterior cerebral arteries and the anterior communicating which unites them; behind by the division of the basilar into the posterior cerebral; and laterally by the intei'nal carotid and posterior communicating. From the cerebral arteries close to, within an inch of, the circle of Willis deep ganglionic branches are given off which penetrate the brain sub- stance, and are distributed to the great ganglia at the base of the brain and the contiguous brain structures. Beyond this the vessels supply the cortical portions