THE MUSCLES OF THE MALE PERINEUM. 821 The Anal Group (Fig. 889). The internal sphincter has already been described in eonnection with the organs of digestion. Sphincter Ani Externus, " the external sphincter of the anus," surrounds the lower part of the anal canal. It is three or four inches long and two wide. It arises from the tip of the coccyx ; its lateral halves run forward, one on each side of the canal, and unite in front of it, where they presently become inserted into the central point of the perineum. It closes the anal canal. Its nerves are the fourth sacral and the inferior hemorrhoidal branch of the pudic. Levator Ani, "the lifter of the anus," forms the greater part of the floor of the pelvic cavity on each side. It arises partly from bone, but mostly from fascia upon a line which extends from the l)ody of the os pubis to the ischial spine. Its insertions are all at lower levels than any part of its origin, the pelvic floor sagging in the middle. Its front fibres run backward to the central point of the perineum, embracing the prostate ; those at the rear pass mesially to the coccyx ; and those between the front and rear, constituting the bulk of the muscle, course toward the middle line, and are inserted some into the wall of the anal canal, and some into a median raphe in front of and behind the canal. Its upper surface is covered with the recto-vesical fascia. The two muscles, like all of the perineal muscles, act in concert. Their contraction lifts the pelvic floor and tends to counteract the action of the sphincters, thus aiding in defecation. They also assist in other expulsive movements by compressing the abdomino-pelvic con- tents. The supplying nerves are the fourth sacral and the perineal branch of the pudic. Coccygeus, "the coccyx muscle," completes the muscular floor of the pelvis on each side, so largely formed by the levator. It arises from the spine of the ischium, expands into a triangle, and is inserted into the margin of the coccyx and the last segment of the sacrum. It acts with the levator, and pulls the coccyx forward when it has been displaced backward, as in defecation. Its nerve is the fourth sacral. The Genito-urinary Group (Fig. 889). Transversus Perinei, " the transverse muscle of the perineum," is sometimes called " superficial " to distinguish it from the " deep transverse,"—a name often given to the constrictor urethrte. It arises from the mesial side of the tuber ischii, passes forward and inward, and is inserted into the central point, fusing with its opposite fellow, the external sphincter, and the bulbo-cavernosus. Its nerve is the perineal branch of the pudic. The transversi serve to fix the central point, and thus aid the action of the other muscles which are attached to it. Ischio-cavernosus, named from its attachments, is also called erector penis. It arises from the mesial surface of the tuberosity and ramus of the ischium at the sides of the crus penis, thus embracing this structure. It is inserted into the external and inferior surfaces of the anterior part of the crus. It is supplied by the perineal branch of the jiudic nerve. Its action, by compressing the crus, is to cause and maintain erection. Bulbo-cavernosus is thus named from its attachments to the bulb of the corpus spongiosum and to the corpus cavernosum. It is also known as the ejaculator iirince, nccelerafor urina;, and ejaculator seniinis. From the central point of the perineum a tendinous raphe extends forward in the mid-line u|)on the bulb. This and the central jioint give origin on each side to one of these muscles, the fibres passing obliquely forward, embracing the bulb and the part of the corpus spongiosum just in front of it. The greater part are inserted on the dorsum of the spongy body, while the foremost fibres extend around the side of the cavern- ous body and are inserted on its dorsum in the mid-line. The perineal branch of the pudic nerve supplies it. The two muscles compress the hind part of the spongy urethra and drive its contents forward.