97 THE DIAPHRAGM. umbilical vein becomes converted into a solid cord of tissue, which, from the transverse fissure of the liver to the umbilicus, is known as the round ligament, while the portion above this becomes the ductus venosus, the uppermost part persisting as the upper part of the vena cava inferior and receiving the hepatic veins. Secondly, there are two other pairs of veins which are entirely confined to the embryo—the jugulars, which bring back to the heart the blood from the head and upper extremity, and the cardinals, which return the blood from the trunk and lower limb, the jugulars and cardinals of each side of the body uniting together before opening into the sinus venosus to form a transverse branch, the ductus Cuvieri. As the embryo develops the jugulars increase in size more rapidly than the cardinals, so that the Cuvierian ducts seem to be the continuations of the jugu- lars ; and when the sinus venosus is taken up into the right auricle the two Cuvier- ian ducts and the umbilical vein, which open into the sinus from the right and left sides and from below, respectively, come to have separate openings into the auricle, forming the three principal openings found in the adult. The cardinal veins do not, however, persist until adult life in their original condition, but are to a certain extent replaced by an unpaired venous trunk, the vena cava inferior, which makes its appearance in the tissue between the two primi- tive kidneys, and early unites with the cardinals by means of transverse branches, through which it receives the blood from the kidneys and rapidly increases in size. In the mean time, a connecting trunk has formed between the left and right cardinals, and the main mass of the blood from the left lower limb flows over into the right cardinal, which thus becomes enlarged and forms apparently the continuation of the inferior vena cava. Above, the vena cava opens into the umbilical vein, and, on the degeneration of the umbilical after birth, this upper- most part of it persists as the upper end of the vena cava. This vessel is, there- fore, com])osed of three originally distinct parts : (1) the independent trunk between the primitive kidneys.; (2) the lower end of the right cardinal vein ; and (3) the uppermost part of the umbilical. When completely formed it receives the blood from the greater part of the territory originally drained by the cardi- nals, the upper portions of these latter still continuing, however, to receive the blood from the intercostal spaces of the thorax. The lower part of the left car- dinal completely disappears, and it also loses its connection with the left ductus Cuvieri, forming instead a transverse connection with the right cardinal, and becoming the vena, liemiazygos (azygos minor) of adult anatomy, the upper part of the right cardinal becoming the vena azygos m,ajor. In the mean time, a slight change has taken place in the jugulars, a branch passing across from the left to the right, and forming the left bracliio-cephalic vein of the adult, which receives and passes over to the right jugular all the blood returning by the left jugular. As the residt of this the portion of the left jugular between the origin of the left brachio-cephalic vein and the left ductus Cuvieri be- comes greatly reduced, being represented in the adult only by the small oblique vein on the back of the left auricle ; but the left ductus Cuvieri, thus separated from both the jugular and the cardinal vein which originally opened into it, does not degen- erate, since it still receives a large proportion of the blood returning from the tissue of the heart itself through the coronary veins, but persists as the coronary sinus. The Diaphragm. Closely associated with the development of the venous trunks is the foi'mation of the diaphragm. At first the body-cavity or coelom is a continuous cavity extend- ing the entire length of the trunk, and even into the head region ; but during development the portions in the head and neck disappear, the thoracic and abdominal portions persisting, and being at first continuous. After the heart has formed, however, a thick transverse partition, the septum transversum, begins to grow from the ventral and lateral walls of the body toAvard the sinus venosus,