596 THE NERVES. (t) (Esophageal Branches.—Above the pulmonary plexus many small twigs are distributed to the cesophagus both from the trunk of the vagus and from its recurrent laryngeal branch. Below that point the right and left vagi unite in forming a long-meshed plexus round the tube, from which its muscular and mucous coats get their nerve sujjply. (j) Abdominal Branches.—The lejt vagus distributes fibres all over the front of the stoniaeli, large branches accompanying the coronary artery on its small curvature, and so joining the hepatic plexus of the sympathetic. The right vagus supplies the posterior surtace of the stomach, sending branches to the ccel'iac, splenic, and left renal plexuses of the sympathetic. The Pharyngeal Plexus.—Two or three twigs from the sujierior cervical gang- lion of the sympathetic, the pharyngeal branches of the glossopharyngeal and vagus, and branches from the external and recurrent laryngeal nerves, unite in forming a plexus on the surface of the constrictors of the pharynx, from which the pharyngeal muscles and mucous membrane are supplied, as well as the levator palati and azygos uvulte. The motor nerves are derived from the pars accessoria. The Eleventh or Spinal Accessory Nerve. The eleventh nerve (Fig. 647) consists of two parts, an accessory portion to the pneumogastric (pars accessoria ad vagum) and a spinal portion (pars spinalis). The Accessory Portion is formed by some four or five fasciculi, which spring from the medulla in series with the i)neumogastric roots. They unite to form a trunk which, with the spinal portion, to Avhich it is united by some fibres or with which it may be entirely joined for a short distance, leaves the cranium in the same sheath of dura with the pneumogastric. In the jugular foramen it sends fibres to the root-ganglion of the vagus, and then partly joins the trunk- ganglion of that nerve; but many of its fibres are continued over the surface of the trunk-ganglion into the j^haryngeal and superior laryngeal nerves, and down the vagus trunk itself into the recurrent laryngeal nerve. It will be seen that most of the motor fibres of the pneumogastric are derived from its accessory portion. The Spinal Portion of the spinal accessory arises by a long series of roots from the lateral column of the spinal cord extending as low as the sixth or seventh cervical nerve-roots. They issue from the lateral column between the attachment of the ligamentum denticulatum and the posterior nerve-roots, approaching closer to the latter as they ascend. They join to form an ascending trunk, which enters the cranium, and unites wholly or partly with the aceessoiy portion ; but, beneath the jugular foramen, leaves the pars accessoria and bends acutely backward, usually superficially to the internal jugular vein, to enter the deep surface of the sternomastoid muscle, which it supplies, and where it com- municates with a branch from the second cervical nerve. Emei'ging from the posterior border of the sternomastoid, it crosses the posterior triangle of the neck obliquely to end under the trapezius, a short distance above the clavicle. On the deep surface of the trapezius it is joined by fibres from the third and fourth cervical nerves, thus forming the subtrapezial plexus, from which that muscle is supplied. The Twelfth or Hypoglossal Nerve (Fig. 644). The twelfth or hypoglossal under the tongue ") nerve is exclusively motor in function, and its nucleus lies in series with those of the third, fourth, and sixth nerves. Its upper part lies close to the floor of the fourth ventricle near the median sulcus in the elevation known as the trigonum hy])oglossi ; lower down it lies ventro-lateral to the central canal. It extends the whole length of the oblongata, and its cells are large and multipolar like those of the anterior horn. The fibres spring in two vertical series of small bundles from the ventral aspect