ORGANS DERIVED FROM THE MESODERM. 91 at first open separately into the duodenum; but later the duodenum becomes pouched where they enter, and this pouch is drawn out to form the common bile- duct, from which the gall-bladder and cystiG duct arise as a hollow evagination. The 2^'^increas arises as a hollow evagination of the dorsal wall of the duode- num opposite the point where the liver anlagen appear, and grows dorsally between the two layers of the dorsal mesentery, gradually becoming very much branched. It is affected by the torsion of the stomach, so that it assumes a transverse posi- tion in the abdominal cavity, and on the development of the mesocolon is pushed with the duodenum against the dorsal wall of the abdomen, its mesentery in con- sequence undergoing degeneration. Its duct, which at first is attached to the dorsal surface of the duodenum, gradually moves around toward the ventral surface, and finally, as a rule, unites with the common bile-duct. ORGANS DERIVED FROM THE MESODERM. The primitive layers of the mesoderm have their cells arranged at first in an epithelial manner, and this arrangement is preserved by certain portions of the layers for a considerable time, even, it may be, throughout life ; to these portions the term mesotheUiuii may be applied. At certain regions, however, cells are budded off" from the primitive layers to form irregular masses, or become scat- tered throughout the body without any definite arrangement; and these cells are termed mesenchyme. It is possible, in accordance with this division of the mesoderm, to recognize mesothelial and mesencliymatous organs. The Skeleton. From the mesenchyme are derived the connective and supportive tissues of the body, whose histological differentiation need not be considered here. A few statements may be made, however, concerning the development of the skeleton. The first trace of a supportive structure in the embryo is the notochord, (Fig. 104), SPINAL GANGLION. SPINAL CORD. Fig. 10-}.—Cross-.scction of embryo. whose formation has already been described, and which is practically a transitory structure, being replaced later by the spinal column and skull. From a jjortion of each of the mesodermal somites a mass of cells is budded ofip, and tliese masses arrange themselves on either side of the notochord, which they eventually enclose, growing dorsally at the same time around the spinal cord. In the intervals between the members of each pair of mesodermal somites each mesenchymatous mass begins to be transformed into cartilage, which later ossifies to form the vertebral centrum; and, as the ossification proceeds, the portions of the notochord enclosed by the