THE BONES. 128 The general characters of typical ribs are best marked in ribs like the seventh, near the centre of the series. A typical rib (Fig. 151) consists of an enlarged HEAD Fig. 151.—a typical rib of the right side. The upper picture shows the inner surface, the lower one the outer surface. (Testut.) vertebral end, or head, joined by a constricted neck to a shaft, presenting a tubercle, an angle, and a sternal end. The head shows two articular facets, sepa- rated by a slight horizontal ridge, to which the interarticular ligament from the intervertebral disc is attached. The facets articulate with the two demi-facets on the sides of the bodies of two contiguous vertebrae. The lower facet is the primary and larger one, and articulates with the vertebra which corres])onds to the rib in number, and it is the only facet where there is but one. The neck is that part between the head and the tubercle. It is rough behind and along the upper and lower borders for the costo-transverse ligaments, and forms the ventral boundary of the costo-transverse foramen. The tubercle is divided by an oblique groove into an inner and lower smooth portion for articulation with the front of the tip of the transverse process of the vertebra of the same number as the rib, and an outer and upper rough part for the posterior costo-transverse ligament. The body, or shaft, beginning with the tuliercle, extends to the cupped sternal end, which receives the costal cartilage. It is laterally compressed, so as to present inner and outer surfaces and upper and lower borders. On the inner aspect of the inferior border is the subeostcd groove, which lodges the intercostal vessels and nerves. It is best marked near the angle, and is limited above by a ridge which is continuous with the inferior border of the neck and attaches the internal inter- costal muscle. The inferior border, which begins near the angle, attaches the external intercostal muscle ; the superior border attaches both intercostal muscles ; the convex external surface affords attachment for mu.scles. The shaft is curved around a vertical axis, or rather two axes. The dorsal and sharper curve is in line with the neck, and extends outward to the angle, where the rib takes a sudden bend, in front of which the curve is more gradual. The curvature of the ribs decreases from the first, the most curved, to the twelfth, the least curved. The back of the angle is rough,for the attachment of the ilio- costalis muscle and its upward continuation. At the angle the ribs from the third to the twelfth are also bent on a horizontal axis, so that if they be rested on their lower borders the head end of the ribs curves upward from the angles. This curve increases, from the third to the seventh, and thence decreases to the twelfth. The head end of the first and twelfth bend slightly downward; that of the second is in line with the shaft. This curve is sometimes spoken of as a twisting of the rib on itself. It increases the obliquity of the ribs as far as the seventh or eighth. Peculiar Ribs.—The first rib (Fig. 152) is the least oblique, and is so placed that its surfaces present upward and downward. If laid on its lower surface, the