565 THE CRANIAL NERVES. cells of Clarke's column, aiul of the nucleus gracilis and nucleus cuneatus in the oblongata, and others which need not be mentioned. Thus a dorsal nerve-root is related to two groups of cells, viz., those of its ganglion and a number of widely scattered cells of the gray matter of the spinal cord and oblongata. The ganglion is homologous with the Gasserian ganglion on the fifth cranial nerve, the jugular ganglion on the ninth, the ganglia of the tenth, and the nerve-cells of the olfactory bulb, retina, and spiral ganglion of the cochlea ; and the cells of the dorsal horn of gray matter, with which the sensory fibres are related, collectively rejjresent what are described as the sensory nuclei of the cranial nerves. The mixed cranial nerves, such as the fifth, ninth, and tenth, follow this type ver}^ closely ; the third, fourth, sixth, seventh, eleventh, and twelfth are purely motor nerves, and correspond developmentally with the motor root of a spinal nerve ; while the first, second, and eighth are purely sensory, and are constituted like the sensory root of a spinal nerve. THE CRANIAL NERVES. The classification of the cranial nerves into twelve pairs is based upon their mode of distribution. It was proposed by Soemmering, and is now generally adopted, in preference to the older classification of Willis into nine pairs, which had reference to their mode of piercing the dura. The following table gives at a glance the numerical and the ordinary name of each nerve, and a summary of its function and area of distribution. Table of the Cranial Nerves. Classification of Soemmering. other Names. Distribution. Function. Olfactorv. ()i)tic. Oculomotor. Trochlear. Trifacial. Abducent. Facial. Auditory. Glossopharyn- geal. Pneumogas- trie, or vagus. Spinal acces- sory. Hypoglossal. Upper third of nasal cavity. Ketina. Muscles of eyeball (except external rectus and superior oblique). Superior oblique of eyeball. Sensorij pari to face, fore part of scalp, ex- ternal ear, eye, teeth, gums, cheek, fore part of tongue. Motor part to muscles of mastication. External rectus of eyeball. Superficial muscles of face, frontalis, pla- tysma, stylohyoid, and posterior belly of digastric. Membranous labyrinth of ear. Pharynx and hind part of tongue, some motor fibres. Sensor;/ to external ear. Motor and wnsory to pharynx, larynx, trachea, lungs, oesophagus, stomach, heart. Some fibres| to liver. Motor to trapezius and sternomastoid nuis- cles. The rest is accessory to the pneu- mogastric. Muscles of the tongue. Special, Sense (Smell). Special, Sense (Sight). Motor. Motor. ORDINARY Sense. Motor. Motor. Motor. Special Sense (Hearing and Equilibrium). Special Sen.^e (Taste). Ordinary Sense. Motor. Ordinary Sense. Motor. Motor. Ordinary Sense. Motor. Superficial Origins (Fig. 627).—The cranial nerves spring from the under sur- face of the brain in the order of their names. Thus, the first appears in front of the anterior perforated spot; the second springs from the chiasma, the optic tracts being superficially traceable to the corpora quadrigemina; the third nerve arises from the inner side of the cms cerebri close to the pons ; the fourth winds round