802 THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. The Epididymis ("npon the testicle") is a long narrow body, which lies along the posterior border of the testicle, encroaching somewhat on its outer surface. It is composed chiefly of the convolutions of a long canal (to be described later), and is divided into an upper extremity or head, a lower extremity or tail, and an intervening portion called the body. The head or globus major ("greater globe"), the largest part of the epididymis, is round and smooth. It reposes like a hood on the upper extremity of the testicle, to which it is united by the tunica vaginalis, by an intervening layer of connective tissue, and by the vasa effereutia, which, on emerging from the testicle, immediately enter the globus major and make up the greater part of its bulk. The body in horizontal section resembles a comma, and presents in consequence two surfaces and two borders. The anterior surface is concave, the posterior convex. Between the former and the testicle there is a short cid-de-sac, the digital fossa, which opens outwai'd, and is lined by the tunica vaginalis. The internal border, corresponding to the tail of the comma, is thin, and floats in the cavity of the tunica vaginalis ; the external is thick, and lies immediately to the outer side of the vessels and nerves, as they enter the testicle. The tail or globus minor (" smaller globe "), intermediate in size between the body and head, is connected to the lower extremity of the testicle by a reflexion of the tunica vaginalis and by loose connective tissue. Migration of the Testicle.—In early foetal life the testicle is an abdominal organ lying below the kidney and be- hind the peritoneum. To its lower extremity there is attached a muscular band, called the gjibernacidum testis (" rudder of the testis"), consisting of a central bundle of unstriped mus- cular fibers, which passes through the inguinal canal and is attached to the dartos at the bottom of the scrotum, and of lateral bundles of voluntary muscular tissue, which are derived from the oblique muscles of the abdomen and are, therefore, attached below to the internal ring and the sides of the inguinal canal. Later the peritoneum sur- rounds the testicle and gubernaculum, forming a mesentery, the testicular portion of which is called the mesorchium {" mesentery of the testicle"). Soon there appears on the gubernaculum, at the internal ring, a pouch of \wn- toneum, the jjroces'.ms vaginalis ("sheathlike process "), which elongates gradually and pushes through the inguinal canal into the scrotum, carrying in front of it the sul)peritoneal tissue, an infundibnliform process of the fascia transversalis, a few fibres of the internal oblique (which form the cremaster muscle), and the intercolumnar fascia. This pouch is then occupied by the testicle, which leaves its abdominal position about the third month of foetal life, reaches the internal ring about the sixth month, the external by the eighth, and shortly before birth descends into the scrotum. The cause of this descent is uncertain. That it may be due in small part to the progressive shortening of the gubernaculum is undeniable ; that it is in greater measure owing to the fact that the lumbar region grows away from the