ELEMENTARY TISSUES. 40 sometimes called the wreath. Simultaneously with this movement the loops are split lengthwise (Fig. 13), so that each original (or mother) loop is made into a pair of secondary (or daughter) loops—a most important part of the series of changes. Next, the twin sisters in each V-shaped loop turn away from each other, one moving her head toward the pole, the other toward the antipole, their limbs being interlocked (Fig. 14). Presently they separate entirely, and migrate to pole and antipole respectively, travelling along the lines of the spindle, which seem to serve as guides to their movements. Arrived at their destination, each Fig. 14.—Migration of daughter loops toward pole Fig. 15.—Arrival of daughter loops at pole and and antipole, side view. (F. H. G.) , antipole. (F. H. G.) forms a star (Fig. 15). Now, as far as can be seen, there has been accomplished an equal partition of the original reticulum of the nucleus, and the mass divides into two masses which are henceforth distinct nuclei. In each of these two bod- ies there takes place a reversal of the steps with which the karyokinesis was inaugurated : the V-shaped loops of the stars elongate, their limbs stretch out to the opposite side of the nucleus (Fig. 16), and the skein-like appearance is observed. Then branches are put forth from the main or primary filaments, and Fig. 16.—Division of nucleus into two nuclei, and Fig. 17.—Reappearance of secondary filaments and elongation of V loops. (F. H. G.) nucleoli. Division of entire cell into two. (F. H. G.) form the secondary filaments necessary to complete a network. Nucleoli come in sight, and a Avail is formed around the nucleus (Fig. 17). Before these last stages are accomplished the protoplasm of the cell shows a constriction which rapidly deepens, and continues to increase until the cell is bitten in two, each jjart being furnished with a perfect nucleus in which is no sign of a spindle. It is held by some authors that the wall of the nucleus is not complete, and that thus is per- mitted a mingling of the interstitial substance of the nucleus with the cell-proto- plasm. However this may be, nobody questions the intercommunication after the disappearance of the nuclear wall. Various modifications of karyokinesis are frequently observed, but the fore- going description comprises the main features in a typical and complete case.