THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 105 quadrigemina, while the ventral zones become modified to form the crura cerebri. To this differentiated middle vesicle is given the name of the mid-brain, or mesen- ceph(tloii (Fig. 123). The anterior vesicle under- goes greater changes than either of the others. First, from the lower part of its lateral walls two pouches grow out, finally come into contact with the ecto- derm of the sides of the head, and form the optic vesicle (Fig. 122), and later a constriction of the original wall of the vesicle appears, the vesicle thus becom- ing divided into two portions, the anterior of which, growing most rapidly on each side of the median line, eventu- ally gives rise to the cerebral hemispheres, which are together termed the fore- brain, or jyrosencephcdon, while the median portion, together with the entire posterior portion of the original vesicle, forms the 'tween-brain, or thalamen- cephalon, which contains the third ventricle. The anterior wall of the third ventricle is evidently, since the hemispheres are lateral outgrowths, the front wall of the primitive brain, and it constitutes the kimina termincdi>i of the adult. The greater portion of the roof of the third ventricle becomes reduced to a thin layer of cells, which, together with the pia, which lies immediately above it, .forms the velum interpositum, while more poste- riorly an evagination of the roof produces a stalk surmounted by a solid oval body, the epiphysis, or pineal body, which comparative anatomy shows to be the rudiment of an unpaired, median eye. In the floor of the ventricle there is to be found, in addition to the optic stalks, a hollow,funnel-like downgrowth, the infundibulum, which ends in a solid body, the hypophi/sis, or pituitary body, formed partly by a dilatation of the extremity of the infundibulum, and partly by a mass of tissue which arises as an upgrowth from the roof of the mouth, from which it becomes separated ; and lastly, in each of the lateral walls of the ven- tricle there is to be found an oval thickening, the optic thalamus (Fig. 122), developed from the dorsal zone, the subthalamic tissues being the product of the ventral zones. Since the cerebral hemispheres develop as lateral enlargements of the anterior of the two secondary portions of the vesicle, and since this portion contains a cavity (a part of the third ventricle), it is clear that each hemisphere will contain a lateral prolongation of this cavity, a lateral ventricle, and that each lateral ven- tricle will communicate with the sides of the anterior end of the third ventricle, this communication being the foramen of Monro. The hemispheres are, strictly speaking, excessive developments of the dorsal zones of the anterior vesicle, and there occurs in the wall of each of them a thickening, termed the corpus striatum, which is continuous behind with the optic thalamus. As the hemispheres continue to develop tliey ])roject in front of the lamina terminalis and overlap behind the roof and sides of the 'tween- and mid-brains ; and the lateral ventricles, increas- ing in size pcvi jmssu with the growth of the hemispheres, become prolonged into anterior, posterior, and lateral horns. Into the outer layers of the hemispheres an immigration of cells occurs, the cerebral cortex being thus formed, and during the earlier months of development division of these cells occui's with considerable rapidity, gradually becoming rarer, however, until some time before birth, when it completely ceases, there being, in all probability, no normal increase in the number of cells forming the cerebral cortex after birth. At about the fourth week of development a finger-like dilatation forms on the anterior part of the under surface of each cerebral hemisphere, a prolongation from the lateral ventricle of the same side passing into it. Anteriorly, the dila- MESENCEPHALON Fig. 123.—Brain uf embryo, side view. (Mihalcovics.)