178 THE BONES. nal pterygoid plate. Each lateral surface attaches the two wings, and between the hitter forms the inner boundary of the sphenoidal fissure and the back of the inner orbital wall. The small or orbital wings are thin, triangular, horizontal plates, extending out- ward from the fore part of the lateral surfaces on a level with the corresponding part of the superior surface. Their smooth superior surfaces form the hind part of the floor of the anterior cranial fossa ; the inferior surfaces form the back of the roof of the orbits and tiie upper margin of the sphenoidal fissures. The ser- rated anterior border articulates with the orbital ])]ate of the frontal bone, by which it and the pointed outer extremity are separated from the great wing, exter- nal to the sphenoidal fissure. The free posterior border is received into the Sylvian fissure of the brain. It is the boundary between the anterior and middle cranial fossae, and ends ])ostero-internally in a knob, the anterior clinoid. pjrocess, which attaches the tentorium cerebelli. The base of the wing is divided into two roots by the outward and forward passage of the optic foramen, which transmits the optic nerve and the ophthalmic artery. The great or temporal wings project outward and upward from the lower part of the sides of the body, and present three surfaces—cerebi'al, orbital, and tem- poro-zygomatic. The concave cerebral surface forms part of the middle cranial fossa, and presents at the fore part of its junction with the body, and below the sphenoidal fissure the forward-directed foramem rotunduiii for the superior max- illary nerve. Behind and a little external to this is the large foramen ovale, directed downward, for the inferior maxillary nerve. This part of the bone pro- jects horizontally backward into the sharp alar ("wing-like") spine of the sphe- noid, which occupies the angle between the squamous and petrous portions of the temi^oral bone. From its under surface the sharp spinous process projects down- ward, attaching the spheno-mandibulary ligament. The small foramen spinosum perforates the spine and transmits the middle meningeal artery, grooves for which cross this surface. The external or temporo-zygo7natiG surface forms part of the temporal fossa above and of the zygomatic fossa below the transverse ptery- goid (" w'mg-Yike") ridge which crosses it. The zygoraatic surface looks down- ward, is continuous with the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate, and presents the lower orifices of the foramina ovale and spinosum. The anterior or orbital surface looks forward and inward. Its upper quadrilateral part forms the greater part of the outer wall of the orbit, which is separated by a ridge, forming the outer lip of the spheno-maxillary fissure, from a small area below, which looks into the spheno-maxillary fossa and presents the anterior orifice of the foramen rotundum. The posterior border in its inner third bounds the foramen lacermn medium in front, and presents the posterior opening of the Vidian canal. This canal tunnels the base of the internal pterygoid plate sagittally and transmits the Vidian nerve and artery. In its outer two-thirds this border articulates with the petrosal, completing interiorly a groove for the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. The external border is bevelled internally below and externally above, and articu- lates with the squamosal. The superior border overlaps the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. Internal to and in front of this articulation is a rough triangular surface which articulates with a similar rough triangular surface on the frontal, and is formed between the upper margins of the three surfaces. The cranial and orbital surfaces converge and meet in a sharp free border which bounds the sphenoidcd fissure inferiorly. The anterior margin or malar crest separates the orbital and temporal surfaces, and articulates with the malar bone and sometimes with the superior maxilla at its lower angle. The obliquely elongated sphenoidal fissure between the body and the two wings is closed exter- nally by the frontal bone, and transmits to the orbit the third, fourth, sixth, and ophthalmic divisions of the fifth nerves, and the ophthalmic vein. The two pterygoid processes consist each of two plates, joined in front, but diverging behind, which project downward and slightly forward from the lower aspect of the base of the great wing.