SEROUS 3fEMBBANES. 67 Fig. (lO.—Diagram sliowing that when a viscus oncroacht'S upon the space of a cavity, it still remains outside of the serous membrane, which gives it an external tunic while continuing to line the cavity. (F. H. G.) suggests but remotely that of a sac. In those wliich are manifestly bag-like, and which furnish a complete or partial coating to internal organs, two parts are rec- ognized—that which is attached to the viscus, and that which is fastened to the walls of the cavity in which the organ is contained. The former is called the visceral layer, the latter the parietal ("on the _ wall") or reflected portion. The relations of parts will be easily comprehended by reference to Fig. 69. The diagram represents a viscus pushing one wall of the serous sac inward, thus making this ])ortion serve as a tunic for the organ ; conse- quently, this is the viscei'al part. Tiie other por- tion of the sac lines the wall of the cavity in which the viscus now is enclosed, and is, therefoi'e, the parietal part. It is not asserted that this is the precise way in which the viscera procure their serous coat; but the condition which exists is such as would obtain if this procedure were actual. For the sake of clearness in the diagram, a cavity is represented between the e])ithelial sur- face of the visceral layer and that of the parietal layer ; but, as a matter of fact, the two layers are in actual contact, and the serous cavity, of which mention is often made, is not real, but virtual. Serous membranes present many folds, which connect viscera with each other or with the walls of a cavity, or simply project into a cavity and return on them- selves, forming a tassel or an apron. A serous membrane may line a fibrous bag, and be reflected over the surface of a contained vLscus, and in such case is denom- inated a fibro-serous membrane. The corium is thin, but contains blood-vessels, lymph-vessels, and lymphoid and adipose tissues. The lymphatics are especially abundant. The nervous supply is small and is symjmthetic in origin. The epitJielium (Fig. 70) is always single and flattened, the cells having irreg- ular, notclied edges and fitting accurately together, except that, at intervals, little apertures are found, some of which are the beginnings of lymph-ves- sels, and from this fact are named stomata, from the Greek word for " mouth;" and others are filled with processes from cells in the corium, and hence are called psendo-stomata {" false mouths "). The true stomata are distinguished by a little boundary of cells, much smaller than those fur- nishing the general surface. The demonstration of their immediate connection with lymjih-vessels led to the belief that serous membranes are only expansions of lymphatics, and, consequently, are to be regarded as belonging to the lymphatic system. Their physiological per- formance and their behavior in disease support this theory. The epithelial surface is particularly smooth and glistening, and thus the gliding of opposing portions is accomplished with very slight friction, Avhich is still further reduced by the presence of the thin fluid constantly secreted by the cells. This fluid, which lubricates the membrane, is normally present in so small an amount that it merely moistens the surface. Just as fast as it is formed it is withdrawn by the lymphatics through the stomata. But, in disease, when the equilibrium between secretion and absorption is so disturbed that the lymphatics do not carry the fluid away as rapidly as the cells manufacture it, an accumulation occurs, the parietal layer is pushed away from the visceral by the intervening liquid, and in this way the virtual cavity is converted into a real one. Fig. 7(1.—Part of free surface of a serous membrane, showing the flat- tened epithelial cells and the stomata. (F. H. G.)