648 THE CEBEBR0-8PINAL AXIS. mesial side of the hypoglossal nerve and parallel to it. Following the hypo- glossal dorsally we find it terminating in a nucleus in the floor of the fourth ven- tricle ; and its accessory nucleus near the olive is connected with its main nucleus by a band. Partly merged with this accessory nucleus is the nucleus ambigims, which is the motor centre of certain mixed nerves, and a band parallel to that joining the two hypoglossal nuclei connects the ambiguus with a mass of gray in the floor of the ventricle—the sensory nucleus of the same mixed nerves. Fol- lowing the line of the pneumogastric nerve, we see that it courses through a mass of gray tissue, a sprout from which is the cuneate nucleus, and its rounded end the head of the dorsal horn—a name which will be appreciated a little later, when the various nuclei are brouglit together. Capping the head of the dorsal horn is a bunch of fibres, constituting a root of the fifth nerve—the trifacial; and between the sensory and cuneate nuclei is a bundle known as the solitary fasciculus. A parallel section through the lower end of the olives shows a different arrange- ment (Fig. 607). The general outline approaches the circular, the tenth nerve is DORSOMEDIAN FISSURE LEMNISCUS VENTRAL PYRAMID Fig. 607.—Transverse section of the oblongata at the lower end of the olives. (Testut, after Duval.) near the transverse axis, and the nuclei dorsal to it are larger and nearer to each other. The pyramid is smaller; the fillet has spread out, and its latei'al edge is almost at the surface; the corrugated nucleus of the olive is shrunken, its mesial accessory nucleus is larger, its other accessory has disappeared; in the lateral area appears the head of the ventral horn, the base of the same occupying a median position at the focal point of the tenth and twelfth nerves; just dorsal to the base of the ventral horn is that of the dorsal horn, from which curves dorsally the nucleus gracilis (Goll), separated but a little from its lateral companion, the