THE ARTERIES. 431 Surgical Anatomy.—The distribution and position of the superior hemorrhoidal branch and the blood supply of the rectum should be carefully studied in opera- tions for removal of the rectum. Branches of the inferior mesenteric are the left colic or colica sinistra, the sig- moid, and the superior hemorrhoidal. The Icjt colic supplies tlie descending colon, and anastomoses with the middle colic of the superior mesenteric and with (he sigmoid branch. The sigmoid supplies the sigmoid colon, and anastomoses with thcvleft colon and the superior hemorrhoidal. The superior hemorrhoidal is a vessel of some size whicli passes down between the folds of the raeso-rectum to the rectum ; it then divides into two vessels which run on either side of the bowel for some distance, finally perforate the muscular coat, and divide into branches which run down the bowel beneath the mucous membrane to its lower end, and anastomose with the middle and inferior hemorrhoidal. The Suprarenal Artery.—The suprarenal are vessels of small size, which arise from the lateral surfaces of the aorta opposite to the origin of the superior mesen- teric, and jxiss transversely outward to the suprarenal Ijodies, which tliey supply. The Renal Artery.—The renal arteries are vessels of very large size, whicli arise from the lateral surface of the aorta about half an inch below the origin of the superior mesenteric. They pass transversely outward to the hiluni of the kid- neys, where they rapidly break up into branches supplying this organ. In their course they are in contact with tlie renal vein in front and the ureter behind. Variations.—Frequently an additional renal artery exists, and there may be several renal arteries. Surgical Anatomy.—The position of the renal artery should be carefullv studied in the operations on tlie kidney. In extirpation of the kidney it should be remembered that more than one renal artery occurs in about one out of five cases. The Spermatic Artery.—The spermatic artcri/ arises from the anterior surface of the aorta below the renal artery ; it passes downward behind the peritoneum and in front of the psoas raagnus muscle ; it crosses the ureter, enters the inter- nal abdominal ring and forms one of the structures of the cord ; it is distributed to the testicle. Variations.—Tlie spermatic is sometimes a branch of the renal, sometimes two spermatic arteries occur on each side, sometimes both sperniatics arise from a common trunk. Surgical Anatomy.—In opcM'ations on or about the cord, as in castration, the position of the artery should be carefully noted. The Ovarian Artery of the female corresponds to the spermatic of the male. It takes the same course behind the peritoneum, but as it reaches the broad ligament it passes between its folds to the ovary, and sends a branch of some size to the uterus. Variations.—The same variations are noted in the ovarian as those described as occurring in the spermatic. Surgical Anatomy.—The position and relations of the ovarian artery should be carefully studied with reference to the many operations in which the broad liga- ment is involved. The Phrenic Arteries arise from the aorta above the coeliac axis, sometimes as a single trunk. They pass upward to the diaphragm, which they supply, and they anastomose with the niusculo-plirenic and superior phrenic branches of the internal mammary. Variations.—The origin of the phrenic arteries varies greatly : they may arise as a single trunk or as separate vessels from the aorta, or from the coeliac axis. The Lumbar Arteries correspond to the intercostals. They are f )ur or five in number on each side, and arise from the postero-lateral surface of the aorta. Passing outward behind the psoas magnus muscle, between the transverse pro- cesses of the lumbar vertebrjB, each divides into a dorsal and an abdominal branch. The dorsal branch passes backward, supplies the deep muscles of the back, and