449 THE ARTERIES. POSTERIOR TIBIAL skin, superficial and deep fasciae are divided, and the fibular origin of the soleus then comes into view. This is divided, and the deep transverse fascia is exposed ; this is also divided, and the artery is found accompanied by venge coalites, either lying on or in the muscular substance of the flexor loniyus hallucis. The nutrient artery from the poste- rior tibial is a vessel of large size, which enters the nutrient foramen in the tibia on its posterior surface. The com- mmiimthig branch passes from the pos- terior tibial outward just above the ankle-joint to anastomose with a simi- lar liranch from the peroneal. The Internal Calcanean Arteries are given olf from the posterior tibial just above the ankle ; they supply the tis- sues of the heel. The position of these vessels is of importance in am])utations, such as Syme's and Pirogolf's. Care should be taken not to injure these ves- sels in making the heel flap, because, if they are injured, sloughing is apt to result. The terminal branches of the poste- rior tibial are the internal and external plantar. The Internal Plantar (Fig. 485) arises from the posterior tibial at the inner ankle, passes forward along the inner side of the foot, and terminates at the inner side of the great toe. It supplies the inner side of foot and great toe. The External Plantar is a vessel of large size ; it passes outward and for- ward to the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, being covered by the plantar fascia. It then winds inward and forward on bases of the metatarsal bones to the interosseous space between the great and second toes, and here anastomoses with the deep, communicat- ing branch from the dorsalis pedis, thus coni]>leting the plantar arch. Variations.—The plantar artei'ies vary somewhat in size. In some cases the internal plantar is larger than usual, and supplies two or more toes, the ex- ternal plantar being correspondingly smaller. Penetrating wounds of the plantar arch may give rise to severe hemorrhage. This, however, can usually be controlled by pressure, or by a free dissection, the bleeding points being found and ligated. The Branches of the External Plantar are small muscular, cutaneous, and articular brandies to tlie contiguous muscles, integument, and joints, and the jiosterior jjerforating and digital branches. The posterior j)erforating are small trunks which perforate the second, third, and fourth interosseous spaces to com- municate with the dorsal interosseous arteries. The digital arteries are four in number, and supply the outer side of the little toe and the contiguous sides of 29 Fig. 485.—Arteries in the sole of ttie foot. (Testut.)