EMBRYOLOGY. 98 enclosing the venous trunks which open into the sinus. By its formation the thoracic and abdominal portions of the coelom are almost completely separated, the only communication between them being by a pair of small canal-like open- ings, one on each side of the dorsal mesentery; and, as the lungs develop, they push the walls of the canals in front of them, these Avails thus forming the pleurae. At a comparatively early stage of development the pericardial portion of the thoracic cavity becomes separated from the pleural portions ; and considerablv later the latter become cut off' from the abdominal cavity, then known as the peritoneal cavity, by the growth forward from the dorsal wall of the body of a partition which unites with the free edge of the septum transversum. The Lymphatic Vessels, the Spleen, and the Suprarenal Capsules. Of the development of the lympliatic vesselfi comparatively little is known with certainty, though they seem to be formed similarly to the blood-vessels by a hol- lowing out of strands of mesenchymatous cells. The mode of development of the spleen is also but imperfectly known : it arises as a collection of mesenchyma- tous cells situated between the layers of the dorsal mesentery of the stomach, and early receives a rich supply of blood-vessels. The suprarenal bodies arise as two distinct portions, one of which is derived from a collection of mesenchymatous cells in the vicinity of the inferior vena cava, and gives rise to the cortical portion of the organ ; while the other originates from the anlagen of the abdominal sympathetic ganglia and forms the medullary portion. The significance of these organs is, however, not yet understood. The Muscular System. From the mesothelial portions of tlie mesoderm the voluntary muscles and the urino-genital system develop. The voluntary muscles are derived from the mesodermal somites, the greater portions of which become transformed into mus- cle-tissue, and, consequently, the voluntary musculature has primarily a segmental arrangement, consisting of a series of muscle-plates placed one beliind the other on each side of the body, and extending forward even into the head-region of the embryo. Each plate is supplied by a cranial or a spinal nerve, and has the fibres of which it is composed directed longitudinally, and arising from and inserted into the connective-tissue membranes which separate each jjair of plates. This primitive arrangement, however, is not long retained, the various muscle-plates fusing together to a greater or less extent, and dividing longitudinally and into various layers, and so producing the complicated muscular systeui of the adult. The involuntary muscle-tissue which occurs distrilnited through the walls of the various viscera seems to arise hy the diiferentiation of mesenchymatous cells, and to have nothing to do with the mesodermal somites. The Excretory and Reproductive Organs. The excretory and reproductive systems arise from certain of the mesodermal somites just where they join the splanclinic and somatic layers, and the first por- tion of the excretory system to appear arises from certain somites in the vicinity of the heart, a solid cord of cells growing out from each somite toward the ecto- derm. Each cord later becomes converted into a canal, which opens at one end into the coelom, and is connected at the other end with the ectoderm. This col- lection of tubules is termed the pronephros (Fig. 112), and as it develops there is formed from the ectoderm, along the line where the tubules are in contact with it, a longitudinal canal, wliicli later separates from the ectoderm and comes to lie close to the mesoderm (Fig. 104). This is the pronephric or Wolffian duct, with which the tubules of the pronephros unite, and which opens posteriorly into the urogenital sinus, to be described later.