THE VEINS. 457 from the head, neck, upper extremities and thoracic walls. It contains no valves. Relations.—On its ru/lit side are the right lung and pleura, with the phrenic nerve between. On its left side lies the brachio-cephalic artery above, and the ascending portion of the aortic arch below. In front it is overlapped by the right pleura and lung. The root of the right lung lies behind it. Its lateral tributaries are the great azygos vein, which enters it just befoi'e it penetrates the pericardium, and small veins from the pericardium and niediastinum. The Brachio-cephalic Veins. The hrachio-cephcdic or innomincde veins return the blood from the liead, neck, upper extremities, and a part of the thoracic walls. They are formed by the union of the subclavian and internal jugular veins, behind the sternal end of each clavicle, and unite below, opposite the lower border of the first right costal car- tilage, at its junction with the sternum, to form the superior vena cava. At the angle of junction of the subclavian and jugular veins there open into the venous circulation the thoracic duct on the left side and the right lymphatic duct on the right side. There are no valves in the brachio-cephalic veins. The Right Brachio-cephalic Vein, only about an inch in length, descends nearly vertically on the outer side of, and superficial to, the brachio-cephalic and the commencement of the subclavian arteries. The right lung and jjleura lie on its right side and in front, with the phrenic nerve between. The Left Brachio-cephalic Vein, two and a half to three inches long, passes from left to right with a slight downward inclination to join the right vein. In front of it lies the upper part of the manubrium sterni, with the lower ends of the sternal muscles, beloAV it the arch of the aorta, and behind it the three branches of the arch, and the left phrenic and pneumogastric nerves. Latcml Tributaries.—Each brachio-cephalic vein receives the vertebral, inferior thyroid, and internal mammary veins of its own side, and, in addition, the left vein receives the left superior intercostal vein, and small thymic, medi- astinal, and pericardial branches. Varicdions in the Superior Vena Caxa and. Brachio-cephedic Veins.—These are mostly due to a persistence of the left duct of Cuvier of the fcetus, which may form a left superior vena cava. This descends from the commencement of the left brachio-cephalic vein, in front of the aortic arch and the root of the left lung, to the heart, where it is continued in the usual position of the coronary sinus to open into the right auricle. The usual left brachio-cephalic vein may persist as a small communicating branch between the right and left superior vense cavie, or it may be altogether wanting. In a feAV cases besides those of transposition of the viscera the superior vena cava is found on the left side, the right brachio- cephalic vein taking a transverse course similar to that usually taken by the left. Veins of the Head and Neck. I. Veins of the Surface of the Head and Face (Fig. 492). A. ANTERIOR REGION. The superficicd veins of the face and the fore ])art of the head and the deep veins of the face unite to form two trunks, the facial and the temporo-maxillary veins, while the occipital and posterior auricular veins collect the blood from the hind part of the scalp. Valves are generally absent in the veins of the head and neck, except at the lower end of the internal and external jugular veins. The Facial Vein {ardcrior faded) collects the blood from the fore part of the face and scalp. It commences at the side of the nose, on a line with the lower margin of the orbit, as the direct continuation of the angular vein. It is less