E3IBBYOLOGY. 106 CEREBELLUM. OLFACTORY LOBE Fig. 12-1.—Brain of six-months' human embryo, natural size. (Koliiker.) tatioiis fuse with the olfactory ganglia, to which the olfactory nerves pass from the mucous membrane of the nasal cavity, and they form the olfcictory lobes, or rhinericephalon, the cavities which they contain becoming obliterated before adult life is attained. Up to tlie fifth month of development the surface of the hemispheres is smooth, but at this time a depression appears at the side of each hemisphere (Fig. 124) involving that portion of the cortex which lies immediately external to the corpus striatum ; this is the Sylvian depression. Later the lips of the depression grow toward each other, the upper one growing more rapidly and forming a distinct fold, the operculum, which covers in the floor of the depression. This covered portion of the cortex is the insula of descriptive anatomy, the fissure be- tween the edge of the operculum and the lower lip of the depression being the Sylvian fissure. In the subse- quent months of development addi- tional fissures appear, some of which are of sufficient depth to form eleva- tions projecting into the cavities of the lateral ventricles, the hippocampus of the middle horn and the calcar of the posterior horn being formed in this manner. The lamina terminalis, as has been seen, forms the front wall of the third ventricle, and accordingly connects the two cerebral hemispheres in front. Its lower part remains relatively thin, but above it becomes much thickened from before backAvard, the thickening having a triangular shape. In the thickening a slit-like cavity appears, and through that portion of the thickening which forms the roof of the cavity nerve-fibres pass across from the cortex of each cerebral hemisphere to that of the other, forming the corpus callosum, while in the floor of the cavity longitudinal fibres develop, forming the pillars of the fornix. The cavity itself is the so-called jifih ventricle, its lateral walls being the septum luci- dum, and it is evident from its mode of development that it cannot be considered homologous with the other ventricles of the brain. One other set of structures require notice here, though they are not actual constituents of the central nervous system. These are the choroid plexuses, Avhich consist of collections of blood-vessels developed in the pia over certain portions of the brain where the walls are exceedingly thin—as, for instance, over the roof of the third and fourth ventricles and along the floor of the lateral ven- tricles. The vessels push these thin membranes in front of them into the interior of the brain, and thus come to lie apparently in the interior of the ventricles, though in reality they are separated from them by the prolongation of the roof or floor which they carry in front of them. The Sympathetic System.—The sympathetic ganglia have usually been regarded as formed by a proliferation of cells from the anlagen of the dorsal root-ganglia, and as being, therefore, of ectodermal origin. More recent observations tend to assign them to the mesenchyme, their first indication being found in a cord of cells in the mesenchyme just external to the dorsal aorta. The history of the system needs further study, however, before definite statements can be made concerning it. The Olfactory, Gustatory, and Tactile Organs.—Of the organs of special sense the tactile and gustatory are not as yet thoroughly understood embryologically. The olfactory organ appears as two circular thickenings of the ectoderm, one on each side of the fronto-nasal process, just in front of the mouth, and these, sinking beneath the surface, come to form the floor of a pair of depressions (Fig. 99)