THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES. 639 geiis or passes between it and the levator ani to the postero-internal angle of the ischio-rectal fossa, thus reaching its muscle and supplying it and the skin around the anus. The Fifth Sacral Nerve, emerging from the spinal canal between the sacrum and cornu of the coccyx, enters the pelvis, and on the pelvic surface of the coccygeus muscles gives an aHcendiiig fiUuacnt to join the fourth sacral, a descend- ing filament to unite with the coccygeal nerve. It then descends on the coccygeus toward the tip of the coccyx, supplies twigs to the coccygeus muscle, and finally pierces that muscle to end in the skin over the coccyx. The Coccygeal Nerve is an exceedingly small filament, which emerges from the lower end of the spinal canal, and pierces the sacrosciatic ligaments and coccygeus muscle to join the fifth sacral nerve. The connection between the fourth and fifth sacral and coccygeal nerves is called the coccygeal plexus. THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES. The sympathetic system consists of two chains of ganglia, lying one on each side of the spinal column, which are developed as outgrowths from the spinal cord, and remain permanently connected with the spinal nerves. Its function is to innervate the viscera, glands, heart and blood-vessels, and the unstriped mus- cles of the body generally. This system presides in fact over the vital or vegeta- tive, as contrasted wdth the voluntary or exclusively animal functions of the body, remaining, however, under conti^ol of the central nervous system. If we take the arrangement in the thorax as typical, the ganglia should cor- respond in number with the spinal nerves ; but in the neck there are only three ganglia, several being fused into one, and in the abdomen also the number is short; so that, while there are 31 spinal nerves on each side, there are only 20 to 23 ganglia. Each ganglion is reddish-gray in color, somewhat fusiform in shape and softish in consistence, but enclosed in a strong fibrous sheath. It is connected with that above and below it by an ascending and a descending trunk, and with at least one spinal nerve by one or two rami comrnunicantes. Each ganglion dis- tributes rami efferentes, which either directly or through the intervention of a secondary plexus supply blood-vessels or viscera, the efferent branches to the limbs and body-wall, however, joining the spinal nerves by the gray rami comrnunicantes, and thus reaching their destination. The gangliated cords are connected superiorly Avith the upper cranial nerves bv branches which enter the cranium with the internal carotid artery, and infe- riorly they converge over the front of the sacrum to meet in a single ganglion in front of the coccyx. In addition to these two chains the following also belong to the sympathetic system : 1. Sporadic ganglia, namely the ciliary, Meckel's, otic, and submandibular, connected with cranial nerves and described with them. 2. The great prevertebral plexuses, consisting of aggregaticms of nerves and ganglia, which are connected with the gangliated cords and cerebro-spinal nerves on both sides of the body, and meet in front of the vertebral axis. These are, the cardiac plexus, lying above the heart and supplying it; the solar plexus, situated in the abdomen behind the stomach, and supplying most of the abdominal viscera and their vessels ; and the hypogastric plcxns, w'hich is placed between the two common iliac arteries, and supplies the pelvic viscera. 3. Secondary Plexuses.—iMany of the viscera possess minute secondary gangliated plexuses of their own, the ganglia being often microscopic in size; e. g., the heart, supi'arenal bodies, uterus, and intestines. The ganglia of the sympathetic cords (vertebral ganglia) (Fig. 691) consist of nerve-cells, and medullated and non-meduUated nerve-fibres. The medullated