THE PERITONEUM. 753 ments. In the angle between the epigastric vessels and the inguinal ligament is a slight depression, the external inguinal fossa, marking the internal abdominal ring, the beginning of the inguinal canal; in the angle between the hypogastric ridge and the inguinal ligament is the middle inguinal fossa ; below this, toward the side and beneath the inguinal ligament, is the femoral fossa ; and between the urachus and the hypogastric artery is the internal inguinal fossa. If we trace the peritoneum vertically, beginning on the superior surface of the liver, we pass down to its anterior border, back and upward on its inferior surface to the portal lissure, where we come in contact with the small omentum, which guides us downward to the front of the stomach, passing over which we reach the anterior surface of the gi-eat omentum, and this, being followed over its lower edge and posterior aspect, leads to the transverse colon ; thence beneath the transverse mesocolon the course lies upward and backward to the third part of the duodenum, where an abrupt change of direction occurs, and the membrane is traced downward over the mesentery and jejuno-ileum, and back on the other side of the mesentery to the hind wall of the abdomen, which is again left to form the serous part of the sigmoid mesocolon and the outer tunic of the sigmoid colon. After this the course is different in the two sexes. In the male the peritoneum goes from the rectum to the bladder a short distance above the prostate gland, forming the recto-vesical pouch, covers the superior surface, and thence extends to the front abdominal wall. In the female it jiasses from the rectum to the upper extremity of the vagina and the uterus, forming the recto-vaginal or recfo-iderine pouch, called also the cul-de-sac of Douglas ; then covers the supravaginal part of the uterus, from which it extends to the bladder, and then to the anterior wall of the abdomen. Its course upward requires no especial mention, other than that already given it, until the navel is reached. Above this there runs upward and slightly to the right a ridge which ends above at the anterior border of the liver, and encloses the round ligament of the liver. At the sides of this elevation the peritoneum is traced smoothly over the anterior belly-wall and onto the under surface of the diaphragm, from which it turns to the upper surface of the liver, where the excursion was begun. Variations from these two simple tracings occur, as the planes of the sections are made in different directions ; but these examples give a correct idea of the chief features of the peritoneal complications. Retroperitoneal Fossae. At certain places the peritoneum is marked by the presence of one or more crescentic folds, bordering the openings of distinct pouches or fossae, which are of practical interest as being the sites of retroperitoneal hei'nise. They occur in the regions of the duodenum, the sigmoid colon, and the caecum. About the duodenum, three of these pits are recognized. The most common is the inferior duodenal fossa, situated in the lower and external portion of the fourth part of this intestine, its mouth directed upward. The superior duodenal fossa, also in connection with this part, opens downward, its orifice facing that of the superior fossa. Both of the preceding are frequeut. The duodcno-jejunal fossa is rare. It begins on the back of the jejunum, and extends upward to the duodeno-jejunal junction. The infersigmoid fossa begins in the left iliac fossa at the proximal part of the sigmoid mesocolon, and runs upward behind the peritoneum of the dorsal abdomi- nal wall. In the caecal region a number of fossae may be found, of which the most important is the postccecal fossa, which extends upward behind caecum and ascending colon for a variable distance. It may include the proximal part of the appendix vermiformis, and cause annoyance in operations upon this organ. 48