433 THE ARTERIES. Relations of the Right Common Iliac. In front. Peritoneum. Small intestines. Ureter. Inner side. ' Outer side. Right iliac vein. Right common Psoas magnus muscle. Left iliac vein. iliac artery. Ascending vena cava. Right iliac vein. Behind. Lower two lumbar vertebrge. Both common iliac veins. Relations of the Left Common Iliac. In front. Peritoneum. Small intestines. Ureter. Superior hemorrhoidal artery. Inner side. Outer side. Left common iliac vein. Left common iliac Psoas magnus muscle. artery. Behind. Lower two lumbar vertebrae. Left common iliac vein. Variations.—The length of the common iliac varies with the point of bifurca- tion of the abdominal aorta. When the abdominal aorta bifurcates high up, as it does sometimes, on the third lumbar vertebra, the common iliacs are long. When the bifurcation is opposite the fifth lumbar we find very short common iliacs. In rare cases the common iliac is absent, the external and internal iliacs springing directly from the aorta. The common iliac sometimes gives off the middle sacral or a lateral sacral branch. Surgical Anatomy.—The common iliac has been successfully tied for aneurism below this point. The majority of the operations have been extraperitoneal. The easiest and best method, however, is the transperitoneal. An incision is made in the median line below the umbilicus, with the patient in the Trendelen- burg position ; the intestines are held up out of the way, the posterior parietal peritoneum is divided over the artery, and the vessel isolated and ligated. Great care must be taken to avoid injury to the iliac veins, which, as has been seen, differ in their relations to the vessel on the two sides; and the ureter, which, as a rule, crosses the lower portion of the vessel, must also be recognized and avoided. Branches.—As a rule there are no branches given off in the course of the vessel. (See Variations.) The Internal Iliac Artery (Fig. 474). The internal iliac arteri/ takes its origin at the point of bifurcation of the com- mon iliac opposite the articulation between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum, and runs downward to the upper border of the great sacro-sciatic notch, where it bifurcates into an anterior and posterior trunk. 28