161 THE METATARSAL BONES. kidney-shaped facet for the base of tlie first metatarsal is much larger than the proximal pyriform facet for the navicular. On the internal surface is an oblique shallow groove for the tibialis anterior tendon, leading to an oval facet antero- inferiorly where the tendon is in part attached. On the rough, concave exter- nal surface there is an L-shapcd facet along the upper and hind borders, which articulates with the middle cuneiform, except in front, where a distinct facet is marked olF for the inner side of the base of the second metatarsal bone. The Middle Cuneiform. The middle cuneiform (Figs. 181-183), the smallest of the tlu-ee, has its base directed upward. The facets in front and behind are wedge-shaped, that in front for the second metatarsal being slightly smaller. On the inner surface is an L- shaped facet along its upper and hind borders corresjwnding witli that on the internal cuneiform. On the outer surface a facet along its hind border articu- lates with the external cuneiform. The External Cuneiform. The external cuneiform (Figs. 181-183) also has its base directed upward. Continuous with the triangular facet for the base of the third metatarsal, at the fore part of each lateral surface, are small facets, internally for the second metatarsal and externally for the fourth metatarsal. The internal surface has in addition a facet along its hind border for the middle cuneiform, and the external surface has a larger facet behind and above for the cuboid. The Metatarsal Bones. The five metatarsal hones (Figs. 181-184) are numl)cred from within outward. They closely resemble the metacarpal bones in having irregular cuboidal bases, articulating with the same number of bones as do the metacarjial; in having tapering triangular shafts, slightly concave from end to end on the plantar aspect; and in having laterally compressed heads with articular facets extending onto the plantar surfaces, where they are grooved for the flexor tendf)ns, and with lateral tubercles and de])ressions for the lateral ligaments. The line of their bases slopes from within outward and backward, and is interrupted by the mortising of the second between the internal and external cuneiform bones. The first metatarsal, the stoutest and shortest, has on its base a large, slightly concave, kidney-shaped facet for the internal cuneiform, and an inconstant facet externally for the second metatarsal. The lower part of the base projects down- ward and slightly outward as the tnberositi/, which attaches part of the peroneus longus externally and of the tibialis anterior internally. On the plantar surface of the large head are two deep grooves for the sesamoid bones. The second metatarsal is the longest; the others diminish in length to the fifth. Its base articulates in the mortise with the three cuneiform bones, and externally by two facets with the third metatarsal, and occasionally internally with the first metatarsal. The baseot the ^/(;Vf^ i7irffl^(//".sr(/articulates proximally with the external cunei- form, internally by two facets with the second metatarsal, and externally by a single facet with the fourth metatarsal. The base of the fourth metatarsal articulates proximally with the cuboid, internally with the third metatarsal by a single facet, and usually with the exter- nal cuneiform. Externally there is a single facet for the fifth metatarsal, bordered by a deep groove for ligaments. The base of the fifth metatarsal articulates proximally with the cuboid, inter- nally with the fourth metatarsal. On its outer aspect it projects as a large rough tuberosity upon which the tendon of the peroneus brevis is inserted. Being sub- cutaneous, it is an important landmark on the outer border of the foot. 11