BADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATIONS AND LIGAMENTS. 223 When the elbow is extended the tip of the olecranon lies on or just below a line connecting; the two condyles : Avhen flexed to a right angle it lies a little more than one inch below, and midway between these two points. 5. Radio-ulnar Articulations and Ligaments. Two joints and an intermediate fibrous union connect the ulna and radius firmly together. (A) The Superior Radio-ulnar Articulation.—The rim of the head of the radius is held in contact with the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna by the strong encircling orhiaular lig- ament. This forms four-fifths of a circle and is attached to the ventral and dorsal lips of the small sigmoid cavity, which completes the ring. It forms part of the capsule of the elbow-joint, and inserted into it are the external and parts of the ventral and dorsal portions of this capsule. Its lower border tightly girdles the neck of the radius. From this border membranous fibres pass to the neck of the radius loosely enough to allow of rotation of the radius on its long axis. It is lined by syiiovial membrane continuous with that of the elbow-joint. (B) The middle radio-ulnar union is accom- plished by two ligaments. (1) The oblique lig- ament is a flattened band, which passes obliquely downward and outward from the lower and outer part of the tuberosity of the ulna, at the base of the coronoid process, to the radius, directly below and behind the bicipital tuberosity. Below this ligament is a space through which the posterior interosseous vessels pass, and which is bounded below by the strong (2) interosseous membrane. The fibres of the latter pass mostly obliquely downward and inward from the interosseous border of the radius, commencing about one inch below the tuberosity, to the whole length of the interosseous border of the ulna. A few fibres on its dorsal surface are parallel with the oblique ligament, decussating with the other fibres. The interosseous space is widest in the middle third, and is wider in supination than in pronation. (C) The inferior radio-ulnar articulation, between the sigmoid cavity of the radius and the lower end of the ulna, is separated from the wrist-joint by the triangular fibro-cartilage. This thick plate is the most important structure in this joint, not only as the strongest bond of union between the two bones, but also in limiting their movements. It is attached by its base to the margin of the radius, which separates the sigmoid cavity from the carpal facet, and by its apex to the fossa at the base of the styloid process of the ulna externally. This liga- ment separates the lower end of the ulna, which i*ests on its upper smooth, concave surface, from the cuneiform bone of the carpus. Some scattered fibres from the two ends of the sigmoid cavity of the radius pass to the ventral and dorsal sur- faces of the lower end of the ulna above its articular surface. They are called anterior and posterior radio-idnar ligaments, and are connected with the borders of the fibi'o-cartilage inferiorly, and with the interosseous membrane superiorly, thus completing the capsule. Lining the capsule is the synovial membrane, which Fig. 243.—Elbow-joint in sagittal sec- tion, showing the articular synovial sac and the bursse of the olecranon and the biceps. (Testut.)