THE BONES. 160 metatarsal bones respectively, ward, is flat and non-articular. The upper surface, directed somewhat out- The lower surface presents a prominent ridge or tuberosity, directed obliquely inward and forward, in front of which is a deep groove for the peroneus longus. To the ridge and the triangular surface behind it are attached the plantar liga- ments. On the narrow external surface or border the outer end of the ridge is usually facetted for the bend in the peroneus longus tendon. The internal surface presents near its middle and upper part a facet for the external cunei- form, and oftentimes behind this a second facet for the navicular, while the rest of the surface is rough for interosseous ligaments. The The Navicular. navicular (" boat-shaped ") or scaphoid hone (Figs. 181-184), situated on the inner side of the foot between the as- tragalus and the cuneiform bones, is com- pressed from before backward. Proxi- mally its concavity articulates with the head of the astragalus. Its convex dis- tal surface is subdivided into three tri- angular facets for the cuneiform bones. Above it is rough and convex, below more narrow and uneven, externally rough for ligaments, with an inconstant facet for the cuboid. Internally it is jirolonged downward and inward into the prominent navicular tuberosity, which attaches part of the tibialis posterior, and, being subcutaneous, is an important landmark in finding the medio-tarsal (Chopart's) joint. The Cuneiform. The three cuneiform bones, named re- spectively from their position from with- in outward, internal, middle, and external, are wedge-shaped, and lie between the navicular and the three inner metatarsal bones. Their proximal surfaces, articu- lating with the navicular, are concave and in the same transverse line ; their distal surfaces, articulating with the three inner metatarsals, are convex or flat, and the middle cuneiform being the shortest, a deep recess is formed, into which the base of the second matatarsal is received. The Internal Cuneiform. The internal cuneiform (Figs. 181,182,184), the largest of the three, has the base of the wedge directed downward on the inner border of the foot. The distal, Fig. 181.—The bones of the right foot, viewed from above. (Testut.)