THE CEBEBBO-SPINAL AXIS. 508 wall ; and at the back part is an example of the latter kind, the cahar being a rounded ridge, which marks the location of a deep impression on the sloping area of the under surface of the hemisphere. In the floor of the ventricle are seen, in regular order from front to back, the gray caudate nucleus, around the fore part of -which bends the shallow anterior cornu, Avhile the mesial border of the mass is marked by a white ribbon-like band, the tcenia semicirculavis ; next and parallel to the last, a long, purplish body, the choroid plexus, composed of clumps of blood-vessels ; then a white structure, ihefornix, whose outer margin is named fimbria; and, finally, the calcar, which forms the floor and mesial side of the posterior cornu. At the hind end of the fornix begins the middle cornu, which extends flir down and forward, below the level of the parts seen by the removal of the callosum. Into it are prolonged the caudate nucleus with its taenia, the choroid plexus, and the fornix with its fimbria. In Fig. 549 the fornix is shown as the undermost of the nervous struct- ures concerned in forming the lateral ventricle in the median region, and its outer surface (which is underneath), like all external surfaces of the encephalou, is cov- ered with pia, the vascular membrane. If we cut away the fornix (as seen in Fig. 550), peeling it otf carefully from the pia beneath it, we shall expose the attached surface of this membrane, and find that the object, which we have called choroid plexus, is the fringed and crumpled edge of this part of the pia, which has intruded itself into the lateral ventricle between the free border of the fornix and the free border of the caudate nucleus—that is, between the corpus fimbriatum and the tasnia semicircularis (Fig. 551). This intrusion is made possible by the disappearance of the nervous tissue along this line, and thus the pia covering the part and the endyma lining its cavity are brought into contact. The choroid plexus, like all the other parts of the wall of the ventricle, has its investment of endyma.