THE ORGANS OF RESPIRATION. By F. H. GERRISH. PHYSIOLOGICAL ANATOMY. RESPIRATION is a dual function, consisting of the simultaneous expulsion of certain waste matters and appropriation of a nourishing material. The substance which is introduced in this process is gaseous, and the things which are eliminated are either gaseous or vaporized. The double performance is popu- larly called breathing. The iqjpamtm necessary for respiration consists of a thin, moist membrane, exposed on one side to air, and on the other to a moving stream of blood (Fig. 813). Each of these fluids gains something from, and loses something to, the Al R THIN MUCOSA | - | - | - |_|»|_ |_ |- CAPILLARY BLOOD VESSEL (2000 ©(33©© O (333 ©(J© O 0 GO ® <20 Fig. 813.—Diagram of the essentials of a respiratory apparatus. (F. H. G.) other : the air parts with oxygen and takes on a load of effete materials ; while, at the same time, the blood 'gives up certain waste products and appropriates the oxygen the most important item of the body's income—these various substances passino- readily through the delicate membrane, which is mucous. In'^lifferent classes of animals the necessary structural conditions are_afforded in various ways. In some aquatic creatures the respiratory membrane is spread over the surface of a ])lume-like organ that projects from the body and waves about in the water, which always contains air (Fig. 814). A more common device is that of gills, in which the mucous mem- brane is disposed in layers, between which the air-laden water is drawn, being taken in at the mouth and ejected at the sides of the head. In the tadpole, which lives en- tirely in the water, the breathing organs are gills ; but the frog, into which the tadpole develops, has a very different apparatus, (xradually the structural peculiarities of the aquatic animal are lost, and 'nose of the amphibian are acquired; and, synchron- ously with the shrinkage of the fish-like tail, and the growth of the limbs, is observed the development of a new breathing-apparatus, unfit for abstracting oxygen from the air which is contained in water,^ but capal)le of taking the gas directly from the ordinary atmosphere. It is a sac, wholly contained in the trunk, and into it, at brief intervals, a quantity of air is drawn, permitted to remain a short time, and then expelled by the channel of entrance. This sac is lined with a delicate 755 Fig. 814.—Head aud gills of Menobraiichus (Dalton.)