489 NODES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. logic processes. The nodes act as sieves, which prevent to a considerable extent the infection of parts proximal to themselves. The great majority of the nodes are arranged in colonies, a few stand singly by themselves. Each node or gronp of nodes receives lymph from fairly well- defined areas and parts. Bat at the periphery of these areas or parts abundant inosculation with vessels of contiguous regions occurs, and along the boundary lines the lymph may flow into one or the other, or even into both sets of vessels. A single organ may be supplied with lymph-vessels which are tributary to two or even moi'e groups of nodes, as, for example, the uterus, the mamma, the penis, tiie pericardium. It is of great importance that the sources of supply of lymph for each colony of nodes should be well understood, on account of their frequent infection by the absorption of disease materials. When a single node or colony is invaded by pathologic germs, attention is immediately directed to the region in which must be sought the lesion by which toxic material has been introduced. Consequently, it is evident that the most useful, because the most practical, method of studying the lymphatic system is to ascertain what groups of nodes there are, and what vessels are tributary to each of them. The accompanying diagrams have been devised with the idea of supplementi,ng the vei'bal descriptions by graphic repre- sentations, and of enabling one to see at a glance what region or regions to examine for lesions when any particular colony of nodes is diseased. As has been already remarked, the frequent anastomoses of vessels at the boundaries of contiguous regions should be borne in mind ; and additionally it must be remem- bered that the nodes of each grouj) communicate freely with each other, and that every cluster of nodes is more or less intimately connected with its neighbors. The nodes will now be studied systematically according to the regions in which they are situated, and will be taken up in the following order : nodes of the head and neck; nodes of the upper limb ; nodes of the lower limb; nodes of the thorax ; nodes of the abdomen. In every surgical operation involving the cutting of soft parts, lymphatic vessels are necessarily severed ; but, unless the thoracic duct or the right lymph- atic duct is wounded (and these accidents are very rare) the results are trivial. The lymph-vessels generally are so small and so delicate that it is impossible to see them in ordinary, normal conditions, and, consequently, it is impracticable to avoid them. Therefore, it seems undesirable to burden the following descriptions with the exact course ])ursued by the majority of the small lymphatics. The situation of the several colonies of nodes will be described, the areas and organs which drain into each enumerated, and the destination of its efferents mentioned; and these are the essential practical points of the subject, THE NODES OF THE HEAD AND NECK and their Tributary Vessels. The nodes of the head and neck (Figs. 518, 519) are so intimately associated that it is most convenient to consider them together. The Deep Cervical Nodes.—The most numerous series is the deep cervical chain, wliicli lies along the course of the internal jugular vein. Into this grou]), either directly or indirectly, is poured the lymph from the entire head and neck. It is divided into two sets—the upper deep cervical and the lower deep cervical—the first extending from the base of the skull to the level of the upper border of the tliyroid cartilage, the second reaching from that line to the clavicle. The upper deep cervical nodes receive immediately the eiferents of the parotid, the internal maxillary, the submaxillary, the suprahyoid, and the lingual nodes, and the vessels from the deep muscles of the head and neck, the tonsil, the thyroid body, the lower part of the jiharynx, and the u]>per portion of the larynx. The Irnver deep cervical nodes take the lymph from the upper deep cervical and the super- ficial cervical, the lower part of the larynx and thyroid, the upper parts of the