561 THE MEMBRANES. pia by numberless trabeculse of fibrous tissue, which form a delicate network. In some situations these are very abundant, in others much less so ; but every- where they are covered with flattened epithelial cells. The interval between the arachnoid and the pia is the subardcJnioid .space. It is essentially ]ym])hatic in character, and contains cerebro-spinal fluid. At certain places the subarachnoid space is quite deep, and the trabeculse are comparatively few. Such enlargements are known as cisternce amchnoidales (" araciinoid reservoirs "). Tlie metapore (for- amen of Magendie) in the roof of the fourtli ventricle permits a communication between the ventricular cavity and the subarachnoid space. At irregular inter- vals, princij^ally near the longitudinal sinus, the arachnoid buds out into tufts, which press upon the structures peripheral to themselves, and even produce marked pits in the inner table of the bones. These bodies are called glandulce Pacchionii (" little glands of Pacchioni"). Sometimes they contain minute, hard particles, called brain-sand. The Membranes of the Spinal Cord. In considering the meninges which enclose the cord it will be sufficient to indicate the characteristics in which they are unlike the corresponding structures in the head. The Dura.—The feature in which the dura of the cord differs most strikingly from that of the brain is in its not being the internal periosteum of the bones of the cavity in which it is contained. Each of the segments of the vertebral column has its own periosteum. The dura is reflected from the brain-case at the margin of the foramen magnum, and below this hangs as a long tube {theca, "ease") between the periphery of the spinal canal and the surface of the spinal cord, having attachments to the upper three cervical vertebrae and low down to the posterior common ligament. Be- tween the dura and the vertebrae is the epidural (" upon the dura") spKtce occupied by areolar tissue, in whose meshes are many fat- cells and a plexus of spinal veins. The outer, as well as the inner surface, is furnished with a single layer of epithelial cells. The Pia is more fibrous and less vascular than that of the en- cephalon. From each side ex- tends a long ribbon of connective tissue, the outer edge of which is marked by long, shallow notches CAUDA EQUINA GANGLION OF DORSAL ROOT -FIFTH SACRAL NERVE COCCYGEAL Fig. 624.—Pouch at lower end of spinal dura, and the sacral nerves. (Testut.) DURA VERTEBRAL VESSELS VENOOS PLEXUS Fii;. C2.'i.—Horizontal section of vertebral column, showing spinal cord and its mem- branes. (Gegenbaur.) 36