222 THE ARTICULATIONS. dons, which further strengthen the joint, lies the fibrous capsule, reinforced inter- nally and externally, and therefore described in four parts. The triangular internal lateral ligament is attached by its apex to the lower aspect of the intei-nal condyle, and by its base to the inner margin of the coronoid and olecranon processes. It is divided into two smaller triangles, ventral and dorsal, by an intermediate thinner part attached to the meeting-point of these two processes. This ligament is the strongest ])art of the capsule. The external lateral ligament, shorter and narrower than the internal, radiates from its upper attachment on the lower part of the external condyle to the outer side of the orbicular ligament. A few fibres reach the neck of the radius. The anterior ligament is the thin, fore part of the capsule between the lateral ligaments. Superiorly it is attached al)ove the coronoid and radial depressions, and includes them within the joint; inferiorly it is attached, just beyond the articular margin, to the front of the coronoid process and to the orbicular ligament, some fibres passing to the neck of the radius. It is reinforced by the adhesion of some of the fibres of the brachialis, which draws it up in flexion and prevents it from being nipped between the bony margins. The po,sterior ligament is thin and weak, like the anterior. By its at- tachment above and at the sides of the olecranon fossa it includes the latter within the joint. Its upper fibi'cs pass transversely across the fossa. Inferiorly it is attached to the olecranon process, near the upper and outer margins of the great sig- moid cavity, to the orbicular liga- ment, and to the idna behind the small sigmoid cavity. It is strengthened by the adhesion of the triceps, which draws it up during extension. The synovial membrane lines the inner surface of the capsule, and thence passes onto the humerus, where it lines the olecranon, coronoid, and radial fossse, and extends to the articular cartilage. Projecting into the above fossse are masses of fat placed between the capsule and the synovial membrane. Inferiorly the membrane extends into the superior radio-ulnar joint, where it lines the orbicular ligament, thence passing onto and ai'ound the neck of the radius, and so up to its articular cartilage. A fold of synovial membrane, projecting into the joint from in front opposite the outer lip of the trochlea, suggests the division of the joint into two parts. The nerve-S'ujjjyly is mainly from the musculo-cutaneous, with a few filaments from the musculo-spiral, median, and ulna. Ilovements are confined to flexion and extension on an axis obliquely placed at an angle of about 84° with the shaft of the humerus, so that in extension the forearm is inclined outward and in flexion inward. Flexion occurs through 140°, and is limited by the contact of the soft parts ; extension is limited, when the ulna and humerus are nearly in line, by the tension of the soft parts and ligaments in front, and of the ventral portions of the lateral ligaments. The olecranon and coronoid processes do not arrest normal but only forced motion, by contact with the bottoms of their respective fossse. The head of the radius moves on the capitellum, and is in most complete contact with it in semiflexion, in which posi- tion it rotates best on the humerus in pronation and supination. Except pos- sibly to a very limited extent, owing to the slight incongruence of the surfaces, lateral motion is prevented by the lateral ligaments and the shape of the bones. Fig. 2-12.—Elbow-joint, outer side. (Testut.)