THE CARPAL BONES. 141 the line of articulation between the two rows the convexity of the os magnum and unciform is received into the concavity of the bones of the first row, and the convexity of the scaphoid is received into the slight concavity of the trapezium and trapezoid. The lower surface of the lower row is irregularly transverse and articulates with the metacarpus. In general the carpal bones are short Fig. 163.—The bones of the right carpus, the distal ends of the forearm bones, and the proximal ends of the metacarpal bones, ventral aspect. (Testut.) and irregularly cuboidal. The dorsal surfaces, usually the larger, and the pal- mar surfaces, more irregular, are rough for ligamentous attachments. As a rule, the upper and lower, outer and inner sur&ces of these bones are articular to articulate with the bones above and below and on either side ; but a lateral sur- face of the terminal bones of each row is non-articular. Enumerated from the radial to the ulnar side, the upper row consists of the scaphoid, semilunar, cunei- form, and pisiform, and the lower row of the trapezium, trapezoid, os magnum, and unciform. The principal individual points of the separate bones are as follows : The Scaphoid. The scaphoid (" boat-like "), the largest bone of the upper row, is elongated downward and outward. Of the three articular surfaces, the upper is convex and triangular, articulating with the radius ; the lower is convex for the tra])ezium externally and the trapezoid internally ; and the internal is concave below for the OS magnum, flat and creseentic above for the semilunar. The outer end or surface is prolonged forward into a strong conical tuhevfmiy, which attaches the annular ligament. The dorsal surface is a mere groove attaching the posterior ligaments of the wrist. The Semilunar. The semilunar (" half moon ") presents four articular surfaces, of which the upper is convex for the radius ; the lower is concave for the os magnum, and, near its inner margin, for the unciform ; the external is creseentic and narrow for the scaphoid; and the internal is quadrilateral and larger for the cuneifoi'iu. The Cuneiform. The cuneiform ("wedge-shaped") or pyramidal bone is placed with its blunted apex directed downward and inward. This bone also presents four articular