THE BONES. 116 THE CERVICAL GROUP. The typical cervical vertehne (from the third to the sixth, inclusive) (Fig. 133) are especially characterized by the foramina in the transverse processes. The centrum, or body, is small, oval, and COSTO-TRANS- VERSE FORAMEN COSTAL PROCESS. TRANSVERSE PROCESS. Fig. 133.—Cervical vertebra, viewed from above (Testut.) transversely elongated. Its upper sur- face is concave transversely, due to the elevation of its lateral margins into lips which articulate with the roimded lateral margins of the lower surface of the vertebra above. The lower ventral margin projects downward, so as to overlap the rounded ventral margin of the upper surface of the vertebra below. The depth of the body is equal in front and behind. The pedicles are directed obliquely outward and backward from about midway between the upper and lower borders of the body. The lamince are long, narrow, and moi'e or less flattened from above downward. The spinous process is short, bifid at the extremity, and nearly horizontal. The transverse processes, directed outward and forward, are seen to be rather short, and their bifid extremities present ventral and dorsal tubercles. Its base is perforated by the costo-transverse foramen, which transmits the vertebral artery and vein in the upper six vertebrae, and which divides the base into two roots. The dorsal root springs from the junction of the pedicles and laminae, like the thoracic trans- verse processes; the ventral root springs from the side of the body, correspond- ing in position to the vertebral end of a rib. It is a vestigial rib (casta), and is called the costal process. The superior articular processes look upward and some- what backward, the inferior downward and somewhat forward. The foramen is triangular, and larger than in the other regions. Peculiar Cervical Vertebrae.— These are the first, second, and seventh. The peculiarities of the first and second are such as to allow the freest movement of the head on the spinal column which is consistent with the safety of the s])inal cord. The atlas or first cervical vertebra (Fig. 134) lacks a body and spinous process, and forms a ring consisting of two arches, ventral and dorsal, connecting two lateral masses. The hodii has become separated from the atlas and ankylosed to the axis as the odontoid process. The ventrcd arch, one-fiftli of the ring, pre- sents in the median line in front a small tubercle for muscular and ligamentous attachment, and behind a round facet for articulation with the odontoid process. The dorsal arch, two-fifths of the ring, has a median tubercle behind, the rudi- ment of a spinous process, which, if present, would interfere with the rotation between the atlas and axis. On its upper surface, at the junction witli the lateral mass, is a deep groove, sometimes a foramen, for the passage of the vertebral artery and the first spinal nerve. The groove or notch on the under surface, for the second spinal nerve, is also behind the articular process, while the lower nerves pass out in front of the articular processes. The latercd masses present above two oval, elongated, articular surfaces looking upward and inward, and diverging behind. These articulate with the condyles of the occipital bone and permit the nodding movements of the head. Transver.se grooves may divide these surfaces COSTO-TRANS- VERSE FORAMEr VENTRAL ARCH. TRANSVERSE PROCESS. Fig. 134.—The atlas, viewed from above. (Testut.)