240 THE ARTICULATIONS. cuius is the strongest, and passes from the hind border and the fossa on the inner side of the external malleolus almost horizontally inward to the outer surface of the astragalus, behind the facet, and to its external tubercle. The anterior Ugamenl is a thin, loose membrane between the lateral ligaments in front. It is attached above to the ventral margin of the lower end of the tibia, above a slight transverse groove, and below to the rough upper aspect of the head of the astragalus. A mass of fat beneath it rests in the groove of the neck of the astragalus. The posterior ligament is very thin and weak, and consists of scattered oblique fibres between the dorsal margins of the articular surfaces of the tibia and the astragalus. The flexor longus hallucis tendon serves largely as a posterior ligament. The synovial membrane is very loose on the anterior and posterior ligaments, forming folds between the tibia and the astragalus. It forms a short cul-de-sac between the tibia and fibula, in addition to lining the ligaments of the ankle. Nerves.—Branches from the anterior and posterior tibial and the internal saphenous supply the joint. The movements of the ankle are flexion and extension through a range of less than 90°. Flexion or dorsal flexion, in Avhich the dorsum of the foot and toes approaches the leg, is limited by the posterior ligament, the posterior parts of the lateral ligaments, and by the contact of the ventral margin of the lower end of the tibia with the neck of the astragalus. In extreme flexion the fibula is slightly raised and spread somewhat from the tibia, accommodating the wide fore part of the upper articular surface of the astragalus. Extension or plantar flexion, where the toes are brought nearly into line with the leg, is limited by bony contact behind and by the tension of the anterior ligament and the anterior parts of the lateral ligaments. Extreme extension is accompanied by some adduction and slight supination of the foot, which probably occurs in the tarsal joints ; for, although in this position the narrow dorsal part of the astragalus facet is less tightly held in the wide fore part of the tibio-fibular mortice, yet probably no lateral motion normally occurs except from external force. In the erect posture the line of gravity falls a little in front of the axis of the ankle, which is directed from within outward and backward. This obliquity of the axis helps to secure stability in the erect attitude, which is otherwise dependent on muscular action. The lateral ligaments are often partly ruptured in sprains of the ankle and in " Pott's fracture." 5. The Tarsal Joints (Figs. 256-259). The articulations of the astragalus consist of (1) a posterior and external astra- galo-calcaneal joint, and (2) an anterior and internal calcaneo-astragalo-scaphoid joint, the fore part of which, or the astragalo-scaphoid portion, is partly sup- ported and encapsulated by the two calcaneo-scaphoid ligaments uniting the os calcis and scaphoid bone. (1) In the j^osterior astragalo-ccdcaneal joint the dorsal pair of facets between these two bones are held together by a capsule, split up into several distinct slips as follows : An internal astragalo-calcaneal band, passes from the internal tubercle of the astragalus, on the inner side of the groove for the flexor longus hallucis tendon downward and forward to the back of the sustentaculum tali. The posterior astragalo-calcaneal ligament, attached above to the external tubercle of the astra- galus, spreads out onto the adjacent upper and inner surfaces of the os calcis. An external ligament connects the two bones beneath and in front of the middle slip of the external lateral ligament of the ankle, with which its fibres are parallel. The inter-osseous ligament is a strong band of fibres passing vertically between the grooves of the astragalus and os calcis, which together form the sinus pedis. It separates the two articulations between the astragalus and the os calcis, and consists of imperfectly separate layers, one of which serves as the anterior ligament of the posterior joint, and the other as the posterior ligament