709 THE MOUTH. and run to the dorsum and margin, where they are inserted into the fibrous lamina. It diminishes the width and increases the length of the organ. The vertical lingualis is composed of small fasciculi, which course from the STYLOID PROCESS INSERTION OF STYLOHYOID PULLEY OF DIGASTRIC Fig. 759.—Muscles of the tongue, viewed from the right side. (Testut.) dorsum to the under surface, curving with their concavity outward. Its fibres are interlaced with those of the transverse lingualis. It broadens and flattens the tongue. The Extrinsic Muscles of the Tongue. The extrinsic muscles of the tongue are the genioglossus, the hyoglossus, the styloglossus, and the chondroglossus. To this list is sometimes added the pala- toglossus ; but it seems better to include this with the muscles of the soft palate, alreadv described. Genioglossus (Fig. 759) (" the chin-tongue muscle").—Si/noni/m, geniohyo- glossus, " the chin-hyoid-tongue muscle." Situation, in the middle line of the tongue. Origin, the upper genial tubercle. Direction, divergent—backward, upward, and to all points between. Insertion, the hyoid bone and the whole length of the tongue in and at the sides of the mid line. Action : the back part thrusts the tongue forward ; the front part retracts the tip of the tongue ; the part between the apex and the base depresses the mid line, thus foi'ming a gutter. Nerre, the hypoglossal. Hyoglossus (Figs. 759, 760) ("the hyoid-tongue muscle").—Sittmtion, between the hyoid and the side of the tongue. Origin, the great cornu and the body of the hyoid. Direction, upward and forward. Insertion, the side and dor- sum of the tongue, blending with the styloglossus. Action, retraction and dei)res- sion of the tongue. Nerve, the hypoglossal. Styloglossus (Figs. 759, 760) (" the styloid-process-tongue muscle").—Situa- tion, between the side of the base of the skull and the side of the tongue, outside of the pharynx. Origin, the front of the styloid process of the temporal bone, and the stylomandibular ligament. Direction, forward, downward, and a little inward. Insertion, the whole length of the side and under part of the tongue. Its fibres blend with those of the hyoglossus and jialatoglossus. Action : it draws the tongue backward, and lifts its base. Nerve, the hypoglossal.