THE CEBEBBO-SPINAL AXIS. 636 a double stalk on each side. One of those is very short, and is connected with the posterior commissure ; the other, ah-eady described, extends from the epiphysis to the anterior pillar of the fornix, and inilicates the up]>er, lateral boundary of the third ventricle. The walls of the third ventricle are so intimately blended at various points with those of the lateral ventricles that it is impracticable to determine the exact line of union ; but a portion of it doubtless lies in the internal capsule. There is an unbroke)i contiimitj/ of (/ray matter from the lamina cinerea at the front of the third ventricle to the gray surrounding the central canal of the spinal cord. The lamina cinerea is connected in front not only with the callosum, but also with the gyri of the frontal lol)e, and at its sides it joins the anterior per- FiG. 591.—Diagram to show the continuity of the gray of the basal ganglia of the cerebral hemispheres, the cortex, and the lower segments of the cerebro-spinal axis. (F. H. G.) forated space, which is the surface area of the lenticular and caudate nuclei and the claustrum ; and these are connected Avith the gyri of the temporal lobe through the amygdala, which is fused with the lenticular nucleus. Keeping these facts in mind, it is easy to understand that the great ganglia are only local thickenings of the gray matter surrounding the cavity of the cerebro-spinal axis, which in the adult displays in the spinal cord the least change from the original condition. The Subthalamic Region.—-The mass upon which the thalamus rests is made up mostly of a forward continuation of the tegmentum of tlie mesencephalon. Three layers are distinguished : the stratum, dorsale, Avhicli is superior; the zona, inceria ("the uncertain zone"), a reticulated, fibrous collection, the origin of which is doubtful and its boundaries obscure; and the corpus suhthalamicum (" body under the thalamus "), derived from the locus niger, which lies between the tegmentum and crusta of the mesencephalon. Dorsal and mesial to the corjjus subthalamicum is an extension of the red nucleus of the tegmentum. The sub- thalamic region thins out as it extends forward and outward, and finally becomes continuous with the anterior perforated space.