EMBRYOLOGY. 90 extends its insertion laterally upon the body-wall, forming a transverse sheet, the mesocolon. This passing over the duodenum binds it fast to the posterior wall of the abdomen, and as a result the duodenal mesentery degenerates. The ascending and descending colon likewise come to lie in contact witii the abdominal wall, and their mesentery degenex'ates to a certain extent, their lower portions being only covered, and not enclosed, by peritoneum. The stomach, in the mean time, has also been undergoing certain changes in position. At first it is straight, what later becomes the small curvature being directed anteriorly ; but soon its pyloric end shifts over toward the right side of the body, and, at the same time, the entire structure twists in such a manner that its original left surface becomes anterior, and the small curvature is directed to the right.^ As the result of this the portion of the dorsal mesentery which is attached to the stomach becomes thrown into a pouch lying behind the stomach, the cavity of the poucli forming the omental cavity, and its floor later being drawn downward to form the great omentum, the posterior layer of which, as it passes back to the body-wall, fuses with the mesocolon. During the progress of these changes a pair of outgrowths have been develop- ing from the duodenum and passing forward between the two layers of the ventral mesentery. They unite to form the liver, which quickly reaches a large size—so large, in fact, that the two layers of the mesentery cannot quite meet around it. but are reflected from its sides as the coronary ligaments. The upper portion of the mesentery, above the liver, remains unchanged, however, forming the falciform ligament, while the portion below is affected by the torsion of the stomach, so that its faces come to lie dorsally and ventrally, instead of right and left, and it forms the small omentum (Figs. 102, 103). The Liver and Pancreas. The liver arises as a pair of hollow outgrowths from the ventral surface of the upper part of the duodenum. Each outgrowth, which represents one of the lobes of the adult liver, becomes greatly complicated by the development of numerous lateral solid branches, these developing others, and so on, the various branches uniting with one another to form a network in the meshes of which are found capillary blood-vessels. The solid branches, termed hepatic cylinders, become converted partly into bile-ducts and capillaries by hollowing out, and partly into the liver parenchyma, the original network becoming more or less inconspicuous. The various bile-capillaries unite to form the right and left hepatic ducts, which 1 It may be pointed out that this twisting is the cause of the position of the pneumogastric nerves in their course over the stomach in the adult, the left nerve passing in front of and the right nerve behind the viscus.