110 E3IBBY0L0GY. DUCTUS EN DOLYM ' PHATICUS ANT. VERTICAL SEMICIR. CANAL HORIZONTAL SEMICIR. CANAL. POST. VERTICAL /SEMICIR. CANAL. UTRICULUS SACCULUS tory sac has been taking place, and the portions of the tissue immediately in contact with the walls of the sac become converted into fibrous connective tissue, and so strengthen the walls of the mem- branous ear, while the outermost portions become converted into cartilage, and later into bone, forming the periotic capsule, in whose walls, however, three membra- nous areas are left, one of these being where a canal, the ductus perilymphati- cus, leads from the perilymphatic space to the surface of the bone. Between the inner wall of the capsule (which is com- posed of dense bone, and forms what is termed the osseous labyrinth) and the connective tissue a layer of the mesen- chyme is left in the form of a loose connective tissue, Avhich subsequently degenerates, leaving a space, which be- comes filled with fluid, around the mem- branous ear. This is the ■perilymphatic space, which, in the cochlea, is separated into two parts by the membranous cochlea, being attached on either side to its wall, so that a section of any coil of the cochlea will show the membranous cochlea, known in anatomy as the scala media, with a jierilymphatic space above it, the scala vestibuli, and another below it, the scala tympani, these two spaces communicating, however, at the apex of the cochlea. The middle ear is the remains of the first visceral cleft, the groove on the wall of the pharynx which represents the cleft becoming converted into a canal Fig. isn.—Model of internal car of human em bryo of about five weeks. (C. S. Minot, after W His, Jr.) ANT. VERTICAL POST. VERTICAL EMICIR. CANAL. Fig. 131.—Model of internal ear of human embryo of about two months. (C. S. Minot, after W. His, Jr.) by the fusion of its lips, the upper end of this canal being enlarged to form a cavity, the tympanic cavity, while the rest of it forms the Eustachian caned, which opens below into the pharynx. The tympanic cavity is, however, up to birth exceedingly narrow, pi'actically merely a slit, its walls, beneath the mucous mem- brane lining it, being largely composed of a loose gelatinous tissue, in which lie imbedded three small bones, the malleus, stajies, and incus. The upper end of Meckel's cartilage, which develops, as has been seen, in the first branchial arch, separates from the lower portion, and forms two small bones, which are imbedded in the front wall of the tympanum, and are the malleus and incus ; Avhile the stapes seems to be produced by the fusion of two distinct parts. Its flat portion,