THE INTERIOR OF THE CRANIUM. 197 chionian bodies. This surface is marked by shallow cerebral impressions and grooves for meningeal vessels. The pariddl fora'iiwn, for an emissary vein, is found, when present, at the side of the longitudinal sulcus near the postero- superior angle of the parietal bone. Fig. 224.—Sagittal section of skull, a little to the left of the middle line, the inner surface of the right half. (Testut.) The base or floor of the cranial cavity (Fig. 225) presents three irregular fossae, termed anterior, middle, and postei'ior. The anterior fossa, on a higher level than the rest of the cranial floor, sup- ports the frontal lobes of the cerebrum, and is foi'med l)y the orbital plates of the frontal bone, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, and the small wings and part of the body of the sphenoid. Over the orbits it is convex, but mesially it is depressed into the olfactory grooves for the olfactory bulbs on either side of the crista galli. In front of the crista is the foramen caecum. The floor of the olfactory grooves presents the numei'ous apertures of the cribriform plate for the olfactory nerves, mesially the slit-like foramen through which the nasal nerve passes into the nose, and laterally the internal openings of the anterior and poste- rior ethmoidal canals. The middle fossa, on a lower level than the anterior, presents a central isthmus and two lateral depressed parts. The small median part, formed by the sella turcica and the olivary eminence, is limited behind by the dorsum sellse, and in front by the anterior margin of the optic groove. It lodges the pituitary body and the optic commissure, and presents laterally the grooves for the carotid arteries from the foramina lacera media forward to the o]itic foramina. The lateral part on each side, limited behind by the superior border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone and in front by the free margin of the small wing of the sphenoid, is formed by the great wing of the sphenoid, the squamous portion, and the ante- rior surface of the petrous porticjn of the temporal. It lodges the temporal lobe of the cerebrum, and presents the follf)wing foramina from before backward : the sphenoidcd fissure leading into the orbit; the foramen rotundum, leading into the spheno-maxillary fossa ; the foramen ovale and the foramen spinosum, leading into the zygomatic fossa; the foramen lacerwn medium, through which the carotid artery and plexus enter the cranial cavity ; and the hiatus Fallopii. Grooves for the middle meningeal artery pass from the foramen spinosum outward, upward,