THE BONES. 170 margin of the orbital roofs. At about tlie junction of their inner and middle thirds is the supraorbital notch, sometimes a foramen, for the supraorbital nerve and artery. The supraorbital arch ends in two downward projections, the external and internal angular processes, of which the external is a strongly projecting land- mark, which articulates with the malar bone, while the internal is slightly marked and articulates with the lachrymal bone. From the external angular process the temporal crest arches upward and backward, continuous with the ridges on the parietal bone. It separates the frontal part from the temporal area, below and behind it, which forms part of the temporal fossa and attaches the temporal muscle. The inferior surface consists of the orbital surfaces of the triangular orbital plates, which form the greater part of the roof of the orbits. Their inner margins are parallel; the outer pass backward and inward. Close behind the outer part NASAL SPINE Fig. 190.—The frontal bone, seen from behind. (Spalteholz.) of the supraorbital ridge this surface presents the lachrymal fossa lodging the lachrymal gland ; and behind the inner end of the ridge there is a depression, the trochlear fossa (more rarely a tubercle), for the pulley of the superior oblique muscle of the orbit. Between and in front of the internal angular processes is the nasal notch. This is bounded above by a semilunar, serrated surface, which articulates with the upper ends of the nasal bones mesially and the nasal processes of the superior maxillae laterally. It is bounded behind by a rough, nearly vertical surface, the nasal process (Henle), which projects behind, supports and articulates with the upper ends of the nasal and maxillary bones, which form the bridge of the nose. From the centre of this surface the nasal spine projects downward and forward as a sharp process, which forms a part of the septum of the nose, between the crests of the na.sal bones and the vertical plate of the ethmoid. The spine commences behind the nasal process as a median ridge, on either side of which is a narrow groove forming a small part of the roof of the nasal fossse. Between the back of these grooves and the internal angular process notice the openings of the two frontal sinuses, which are placed between the outer and inner tables of the bone. The sinuses lie behind the superciliary ridges, extend a variable distance over the orbits, and are separated by a thin vertical partition, usually displaced to the left. Behind these openings, and between the ethmoidal notch and the inner margins of the orbital surfaces, are a series of depressions forming the roofs of cells, and two transverse grooves. These are comjileted by articulation with the lateral masses of the ethmoid to form respectively the