THE TONGUE. 661 papilla' project from its top. A thick, stratified epithelium, similar to that of the skin, covers the papilla completely, the superficial layers giving no evidence of the existence of jjapillse beneath. Around the main papilla at a little distance is a circular rampart, whose top is as high as that of the ])apilla, and its structure identical with that of the latter. Occupying the entire thickness of the epithe- lium of the lateral surface of the papilla is a multitude of flask-shaped bodies, called iastp-buda (Fig. 708). They are composed of two kinds of epithelial cells, gustatory and sustentacular, packed together closely. Fig. 707.—Circumvallate papilla in vertical section, showing arrangement of the taste-buds and nerves. (Testut.) A gustatory cell is slender, except at its centre, which is bulged in every direction by a large nucleus. Its proximal end is often branched, and extends to the corium ; its distal extremity is surmounted by a stiff' cilium, which reaches almost to the surface. The sustentacular cells are fusiform, and are mostly situated in the peripheral parts of the taste-bud, though some of them are mingled with the gustatory. They furnish mechanical support to the other cells, and form a firm casing to the bud. The stratified, flattened epithelium, which clothes the papilla, presents a perforation, called a gustatory pore, at the spot where the distal extremity of the taste-bud approaches the surface, and thus the hairs of the gustatory cells can be affected by the direct contact of sapid solutions. Taste-buds are found, also, in the wall surrounding the papilla, pre- senting their open ends toward the intervening ditch, as do those of the papilla itself. The Fungiform ("mushroom- shaped") Papillse (Fig. 709) are pediculated knobs, upon the rounded upper surface of which are manv secondary p(q)illa\ In the fungiform are found many taste-buds. The Filiform (" thread-shaped ") Papillae (Fig. 709) are small, somewhat cylin- drical, and bear secondary jxtpilke, upon which the epitheliiim is particularly dense, and drawn out into long, tapering tJireads. To all of the varieties of papillte nerves are supplied, entering through their bases, and sending filaments between the epithelial cells, but not establishing absolute continuity with them. The glossopharyngeal furnishes the hind third of the mucosa of the dorsum of the tongue, the lingual the remainder. Taste-buds are scattered over the dorsal surface independently of 2:)apillfe, and are especially numerous in the posterior part. Fig. 708.—Taste-buds. (After Engleman.)