346 THE MUSCLES. The nine following muscles arise from structures, principally osseous, in the face, converge to the margin of the orbicularis, and are either inserted into it or the skin covering it. Six are close to the surface, and three are more deeply situated. All of them l)y their action oppose that of the orbicularis, and in various direc- tions enlarge the opening of the mouth. Levator labii superioris alseque nasi (Fig. 407), " the lifter of the upper lip and of the wing of the nose," arises from the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, passes downward and outward, and is inserted partly into the wing of the nose, partly into the orbicularis. Its name describes its action. Levator labii superioris proprius (Fig. 407), " the proper lifter of the upper lip," the last word of the name being used to emphasize the distinction between this and the preceding muscle, which does other than the special work of this. It arises just above the infra-orbital foramen and the neighboring part of the malar bone, runs downward and inward, and is inserted into the margin of the orbicularis and the skin of the lip. It raises the part of the lij) near the median line. Zygomaticus minor (Fig. 407), " the smaller zygomatic muscle." The name implies attachment to the zygoma, but was unwisely given on account of its near- ness to a muscle which somewhat merits the title zygomatic. It arises from the front and lower part of the malar l^one, and is inserted into the orbiculai'is and the skin, just outside of the levator labii superioris proprius. It raises and draws outward the upper lip. Zygomaticus major (Fig. 407), ''the larger zygomatic muscle," arises from the malar near its zygomatic suture, passes downward and inward, and is inserted into the skin at the angle of the mouth. It draws the angle upward and outward. Levator anguli oris (Fig. 405), " the lifter of the angle of the mouth," arises below the infra-orl)ital foramen, passes downward, and is inserted into the orbicularis and the skin near the corner of the mouth. Its name implies its action. Risorius (Figs. 401, 407).—The name means "the laughing muscle," but it is not descriptive. The muscle extends from the fascia over the masseter to the skin and orbicularis at the angle of the mouth. It is regai'ded as a specialized part of the platysma. It draws the mouth outward horizontally, widening the cleft. Buccinator (Fig. 405), " the trumpeter's muscle," arises from the back part of the outer surface of the alveolar processes of both jaw-bones, and from the pterygo-maxillary ligament. Its different parts converge to the angle of the mouth, and there blend with the orbicularis. It pulls the angle outward, and compresses the contents of the vestibule of the mouth. If the cheek bulges with air, the buccinator presses it out, measurably regulating its expulsion, as in blowing a horn (hence the name); and it keeps the mass of food during mastication from escaping outward from the grasp of the molar teeth. Depressor Anguli Oris (Fig. 407).—" The de]>ressor of the angle of the mouth." Synonym, triangularis menti, " the triangular muscle of the chin." It arises from the external oblique line of the mandible, passes upward, converging to the angle of the mouth, where it blends with the orbicularis. It pulls down the corner of the mouth. Depressor Labii Inferioris (Figs. 405, 407).—" The depressor of the lower lip." Synonym,, quadratus menti, "the square muscle of the chin." It arises from the mandible, from near the symphysis to beyond the mental foramen, passes upward and inward, and merges with the orbicularis. It draws the lower lip downward and slightly outAvard. Levator' Labii Inferioris.—" The lifter of the lower lip." Synonym, levator menti, " the lifter of the chin." It arises from the incisor fossa of the mandible, passes downward, and is inserted into the skin of the chin. It differs from the other muscles which act upon the oral aperture in not participating in the struct- ure of the lips or cheeks, and in not antagonizing the orbicularis; but, while its