466 THE BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. lateral sinuses. It communicates with the posterior spinal veins, and receives inferior cerebellar veins. The Cavernous Sinuses (Fig. 498) lie between the layers of the dura, one on each side of the body of the sphenoid bone. They extend from the sphenoidal fissure in front, where they receive and are practically continuous with the oph- thalmic veins, to the apex of the petrous bone beliind, where they end in the petrosal sinuses. The two are connected across the middle line in front, behind, and often below the pituitary body, by vessels which are called anterior, posterior, and inferior intercavernous sinuses, and which together form the circular or coronary sinus. Each cavernous sinus is bridged across by fibrous bands, so that its cavity resembles cavernous tissue, from which it derives its name. In the outer wall are the third, fourth, and ophtlialmic divisions of the fifth nerve, which lie in the order named from above downward and from within outward. The internal carotid artery and the sixth nerve also pass along in the sinus separated from its lumen PITUITARY BODY SPHENOIDAL SINUS BODY OF SPHENOID the middle of the sella turcica. (W. by its endothelial lining only. This sinus receives some inferior cerebral veins, and communicates with the pterygoid plexus through the ophthalmic vein, and through a slender vein passing through the foramen of Vesalius and another through the foramen ovale. It also communicates with the ])haryngeal plexus and the internal jugular vein, by brandies passing through the foramen lacerum medium and the carotid foramen respectively. This sinus also receives in front the small spheno-parietal sinus, which, communicating with the middle menin- geal veins, near the apex of the small wing of the sphenoid, runs inward on the under surface of this bony process. The Superior Petrosal Sinus extends backward as a narrow channel in the attached margin of the tentorium cerebelli, along the groove in the upjier border of the petrous bone, from the cavernous sinus in front to the lateral sinus behind. It receives veins from the temporal lobe of the brain, the cerebellum, and the tympanum. The Inferior Petrosal Sinus, larger but shorter than the superior, runs back- ward and downward in a groove along the petro-occipital suture, from the liind end of the cavernous sinus in front to the upper end of the internal jugular vein, which it reaches after passing through the forward compartment of the jugular foramen. It receives inferior cerebellar veins, and veins from the medulla, pons, and internal ear. The Transverse or Basilar Sinus {basilar plexus). Connecting the two inferior petrosal sinuses across the median line is a ])lexus of veins, lying in the dura on tlie basilar process of the occipital bone. It communicates below with the ante- rior spinal veins. Tlie petro-squamous sinus is sometimes found in the adult in a groove along the petro-squamous suture, opening behind into the lateral sinus, where the latter bends downward onto the mastoid bone. It represents the remains of an early foetal condition, in which the lateral sinuses are continued forward in this course to open into the primitive (afterwards the external) jugular vein, before the development of the internal jugular vein. INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY AND SIXTH NERVE Frfi. 498.—Cavernous sinus, as shown by transverse section through KeiUer.)