THE ORGANS OF RESPIRATION. 762 node!^. This deposition of pigment makes clear the outlines of the lobules and even of the bases of the infundibula. Blood-vessels of the Lungs.—Two sets of blood-vessels are distributed to the lung and to all of its lobules—the branches of the pulrnonai-y artery and those of the hronchial arteries. The latter furnish nourishing blood to the organ; the former carry to it venous blood, which is to be aerated, that is to say, to be re- lieved of certain materials whi(;h are the result of tissue-waste, and to be loaded up from the air with oxygen—the most important of the articles of physiological income. The imhnonary artery (Fig. 819), by its branches, accompanies the tubes and carries the greatest part of its blood to the capillary plexus of the alveoli; but some of it is supplied to the mucous membrane of those bronchioles wliich are near the infundibula—those which have air-vesicles upon them. The pulmonary veins (Fig. 820) begin by radicles at the margin of the ca])illary network of the Fig. 820.—Pulmonary veins, seen in a dorsal view of the heart and lung.s. (Testut.) alveoli and the minute tubes—that is, they take blood from the parts to which the pidmonary artery is distributed. The bronchial arteries follow the divisions of the air-tubes, and supply arterial blood to the walls of the tubes (except the smallest), the coats of the large ves- sels, to which they are vasa vnsorum, the bronchial lymjih-nodes, the jjleiira, the areolar tissue beneath the pleura, and that between the lobules. The bronchial veins gather the blood from all of the parts to whicli the brf)nchial artery supplies it, excepting a little, which on account of a communication of the networks on the intralobular tubes and tho.se which form the stems of the lobules, mingles with the blood furnished by the pulmonary artery, and is, consequently, taken up by the radicles of the pulmonary vein. GROSS ANATOMY OF THE LUNGS. The lunr/s (Figs. 821-823) (Latin pidiiiorirs, from which comes "pulmonary") are two large organs, which occupy a great part of the chest cavity, one in each side of it, and separated from each other by the heart, the gullet, the great blood-