574 THE NERVES. The Fourth or Trochlear Nerve. The fourth nerve (called trochlear because its tendon runs through a pulley) arises in a short column of cells almost continuous with the third nucleus, and commensurate with the inferior quadrigeminal body. Thence the root runs dorso-laterally, and after descending for a short distance crosses inward in the valvula, where it decussates with its fellow, and emerges as a slender round bundle immediately behind the testis on the opposite side from its nucleus. The decussation of this nerve is altogether a peculiar feature. It now passes outward across the supei'ior peduncle of the cerebellum, and forward round the outer side of the crus cerebri to pierce the dura under cover of the free margin of the tentorium, external to the posterior clinoid process and third nerve. It is embedded in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus between the oculo-motor and ophthalmic nerves, afterward crossing the oculo-motor to lie in the inner angle of the sphenoidal fissure through which it reaches the orbit. Here it runs inward above the levator palpebrse superioris and is distributed to the obliquus superior on its upper (orbital) surface. The Fifth or Trifacial Nerve. The fifth nerve is called trifacial because it has three grand divisions, which are distributed to the face ; and sometimes it is called trigeminal (" three double " or " three twins "), referring to the arrangement of the divisions on the two sides of the head. It is mixed in function, closely resembling a spinal nerve in that the motor and sensory roots arise separately from the encephalon, the sensory root possessing a ganglion similar in constitution and development to that of a posterior spinal nerve-root, while the motor root joins the nerve on the distal side of the ganglion. The motor root arises from a group of cells lying deeply in the floor of the fourth ventricle at a point corresponding to the lateral recess. It is joined by the descending root which appears to arise from cells in the aqueduct and by a crossed motor root of doubtful connections. Most of the fibres of the sensory portion are traceable into the so-called ascending root which appears as a crescentic band of fibres outside the gelatinous substance of Rolando. The fibres appear to arise as axis-cylinder processes of the cells of the Gasserian ganglion and to terminate as minutely branching pro- cesses round the cells of the gelatinous substance and funiculi gi-acilis and cuneatus (compare sensory spinal nerve-root). Many sensory fibres end in the stijierior sensory nucleus, which lies just outside the motor nucleus*. The crossed sensory and cerebellar roots are imperfectly understood. Thus, then, two roots can be seen coursing through the pons from whose ven- tral surface they emerge near its anterior border. The larger, sensory root (portio major) being ventro-lateral to the smaller, motor root (portio minor). The larger root runs forward beneath the tentorium, Avhere, just under the fourth nerve and near the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, it enters a recess between the two layers of the dura (Meckel's space). Here the larger root spreads out, forming a plexiform network, and enters the Gasserian o-anglion. The smaller root, from being dorsal to the jjortio major at its origin, winds spirally round the latter, gaining its inner and then its ventral (under) surface, and crosses beneath the Gasserian ganglion to join the third division only, which emerges from that structure. The Gasserian or Semilunar Ganglion.—This body lies on a special depression on the anterior surface of the petrous bone; it is crescent-shaped, the convexity being directed forward. Its surfaces are adherent to the dura, flattened, and much striated ; and it is rich in ganglionic cells. It is joined by filaments from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic, and sends recurrent fibres to the dura.