THE ARTERIES. 437 the sciatic nerve. The coccygeal branches supply the tissues about the coccyx. The gluteal branches supply the lower portion of the gluteus maxiraus muscle. The covies nervi isehiadici supplies the great sciatic nerve, running for some dis- tance along its sheath. The muscular branches are distributed to the external rotator muscles of the thigh. The articular branches are distributed to the hip- joint. The branches from the posterior trunk of the internal iliac are the gluteal, ilio-lumbar, and lateral sacral. The Gluteal Artery (Fig. 475) is a vessel of large size wliich leaves the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen above the pyriformis muscle. It then divides into a superficial and deep branch. The superficial runs into the gluteus maximus muscle, and is distributed to its substance. The deep branch runs Fig. 476.—Arteries of the perineum. (Testut.) between the gluteus medius and gluteus minimus, and breaks up into two sets of vessels, a superior and inferior, which supply these muscles. Variations of the gluteal are rare. The gluteal may arise by a common trunk with the sciatic, or may be absent, and its place be taken by a large branch from tlie femoral. Surgical Anatomy.—The gluteal may be ligated by making an incision on a line drawn from the posterior superior spine of the ilium to the great trochanter. The fibres of the gluteus maximus are separated, and the upper border of the pyriformis muscle is exposed. At about the junction of the upper and middle thirds of the surface-line the artery is found. The Ilio-Lumbar Artery passes outward behind the iliac vessels and psoas magnus muscle. Behind the muscle it divides into two sets of branches ; the lumbar which are distributed to the psoas magnus and the quadratus lumborum muscles, and an iliac set, which are distributed to the iliacus muscle. The Lateral Sacral Arteries are two in number, sometimes arising from a com- mon trunk. They pass to the anterior surface of the sacrum, where they are dis-