217 THE SCAPULO-CLAVICULAR ARTICULATION. the costo-clo.vieular or rhomboid ligament. This is directed obliquely upward, outward, and backward from the front and upper aspect of the first costal cartilage to the rhomboid impression on the under surface of the inner end of the clavicle. The interarticular fihro-cartilarfe is a flattened disc of about the same shape and size as the inner articular surtace of the clavicle. It is thinnest at the centre and below, thickest above. It is attached above to the upper and dorsal border of the articular surface of the clavicle and below to the inner end of the cartilage of the first rib. By the attachment of its circumference to the inner surface of the capsule the joint is divided into two Hynovial cavities, of which the outer is the looser, and is continued a short distance beneath the clavicle on the first costal cartilage. The two occasionally communicate through a perforation in the centre of the fibro-cartilage. The fibro-cartilages and interclavicular ligament together represent the epi- sternal bone of lizards. Movements.—The clavicle carrying the scapula, to which the coraco-clavicular ligaments closely bind it, may move on its inner end as a centre in an upward and downward direction on a sagittal axis ; in a forward and backward direction on a vertical axis ; or, by a combination of these, a circumductory motion may be obtained, in which the clavicle describes a cone of which the base is at its outer end. A slight rotation of the clavicle on its long axis is also permitted by which its ventral surface is turned upward as the arm is raised, and vice versa. The fibro-cartilage serves as an elastic buffer to break shocks and resist pressure from the shoulder, as well as to connect the bones and prevent inward displace- ment. The interclavicular and rhomboid ligaments are safeguards against upward displacement of the inner end of the clavicle in depression and elevation of the arm, and the rhomboid ligament also resists backward displacement. When one clavicle is much depressed the interclavicular ligament draws the other one up—a fact to be remembered in fracture of the bone. In forced depression of the clavicle it presses on the first rib, which acts as a fulcrum, so that the inner end is raised and its ligaments are put on the stretch. 2. The Scapulo-clavicular Articulation. The acromio-clavicular joint is an arthrodial articulation between the bevelled outer end of the clavicle and the inner margin of the acromion process, in which the bones are held together by a somewhat lax capsule, which allows some play between the surfaces. The capsule, whose fibres pass from the acro- mion inward and backward, is especially strong above, forming the superior acromio-clavicular ligament, and is here also strengthened by the fascia of the trapezius and deltoid. The inferior part, ivferiar ligament, is weak, as is also the posterior. The synovial cavity is sometimes partially, rarely completely, divided into two by a small wedge-shaped interarticular fibro-cartilage, attached by its base to the superior ligament, and usually occupying the upper part of the joint only. The coraco-clavicular ligament, which binds the clavicle to the coracoid process of the scapula, is the strongest connection between the clavicle and scapula, and consists of two parts : (1) The conoid ligament, the dorsal and internal fasciculus, is a strong triangular band attached by its apex to the inner and hind part of the root of the coracoid process, from which its fibres spread upward, backward, and outward to and about the conoid tubercle of the clavicle. (2) The trapezoid ligament is the flat, quadrilateral, outer and fore part, whose fibres slope upward, backward, and outward from the upper surface of the dorsal half of the; coracoid process to the trapezoid ridge on the under surface of the clavicle. A small bursa often exists between these two ligaments. Movements in the acromio-clavicular joint may take place on a vertical axis by which the glenoid cavity is turned farther backward or forward, thus enabling it