598 THE NEBVES. This loop is called the ansa hypoglossi. From the descendens hypoglossi a twig is given to the anterior belly of the omohyoid. From the loop, branches are given to the sternohyoid, sternothyroid, and posterior belly of the omohyoid, the last twig passing backward through the loop of deep cervical fascia, which binds down the central tendon of its muscle. The nerves to the sternohyoid and sterno- thyroid enter the jwsterior borders of these muscles low down, and may extend into the thorax and communicate with the phrenic nerve. THE SPINAL NERVES. In introducing the subject of the cranial nerves we entered pretty fully into the mode of formation of a spinal nerve, taking it as the type on which the cranial nerves, also, are more or less Fig. 651.—a portion of the spinal cord, showing its right lateral surface. The dura is opened and arranged to show the nerve-roots. (Testut.) isely planned. We refer the student again to page 563, and here supplement what is there said by additional matter neces- sary to the present subject. Fig. 650 illustrates the mode of origin and constitution of a spinal nerve. It is seen to spring from the spinal cord by two roots, ventral and dorsal. The ventral root is motor in function, and springs from the ventro-lateral aspect of the cord by from four to six bundles. They unite to forpa two strands, which enter a sheath of dura, in which they are at first separated from the dorsal root by a fibrous septum. Within the sheath and as they traverse the inter- vertebral foramen, the ventral root unites with the dorsal to form a spinal nerve. The dorsal roots, usually larger than the ventral, are sensory in function, and spring from the dorso-lateral aspect of the cord by from six to eight fasciculi, which with their fellows are arranged in a single linear series all down the cord. They unite to form two bundles and within the dural sheath enter a ganglion, from which they emerge as one bundle, and immediately join the ventral root to form a spinal nerve. A sjnnal ganglion is an ovoid body, bifid at its proximal extremity where the