839 THE VULVA. sebaceous follicles, and presents only rudimentary hairs. The superior or attached borders correspond to the ischio-pubic rami, with which they are connected by numerous fibrous bands. The inferior borders are free, and the fissure between them is called the riina ("crack") pudendi. In infants, young women, and fleshy subjects the labia niajora are firm, and directly applied one to the other ; in the old, the thin, and those who have borne many children, they shrivel and gape apart. Beneath the integument of each labium majus there is found a tissue, resem- bling the dartos of the scrotum, but much thinner; beneath this a layer of adipose and connective tissue ; and still deeper an elastic, pear-shaped sac, called Broca's pouch. This contains connective tissue and fat; and its mouth, applied to the external abdominal ring, may sometimes receive the termination of the canal of Nuck. Morphologically the labia majora c(jrrespond to the scrotum in the male. The Labia Minora. The labia minora (" smaller li])s''), or nymphce, are two smaller longitudinal folds, placed within the laljia majora, and running from the clitoris downward and backward for about one and one-half inches. They also present two sur- faces, two borders and two extremities. Tlie external surfaces are in contact with the labia majora, the internal with each other. The superior borders are attached, the inferior, often crcnated, are free. The anterior extremities divide, each into two bands. The superior of these unite above the dorsum of the clitoris to form its pre])uce; the inferior, uniting beneath the clitoris to which they are attached, form its frenum. Posteriorly each labium terminates opposite to or a little behind the middle of the rima pudendi. Rarely it is continuous farther backward, and is joined to its fellow by a slender transverse fold, placed on the anterior edge of the posterior commissure. This fold then becomes the fourchette. The nymphje are composed of modified skin, beneath which is a connective tissue, rich in elastic and smooth muscular fibres, but containing no fat. In the young, where they are protected by the labia majora, they are rosy in color and moist, approacliing in character the mucous membranes; when thev project beyond the labia majora, liowever, they become dry and deeply pigmented. Their surfaces are free from hairs and sudoriparous glands, but are abundantly supplied with sebaceous glands, which secrete a thick, white substance, akin to the preputial smegma, and with papillse, which contain nerves ending in tactile corpuscles. The Interlabial Space. The interlabial space or vulval cleft is bounded on either side by the labia majora and minora, in front by the clitoris, and behind by the posterior commis- sure. It receives the orifice of the vagina and the external opening of the urethra, becoming therefore the common uro-genital opening. Ordinarily, the tissues falling together, the space is obliterated, liecoming merely a fissure ; but, when the labia are drawn apart, it becomes broad, shallow, and elliptical in out- line. Superficially, it is lined with modified skin, deeply with mucous membrane, which merges into that of the vagina and urethra. The line of demarcation between the skin and mucous membrane runs from beneatli the prepuce of the clitoris backward along the inner surfiice and attached border of the labium minus to the outer aspect of the hymen (Hart). In the floor of the interla- bial space from before backwai'd may be seen the vestibule, meatus urinarius, orifice of the vagina, hymen, and fossa navicularis. The Vestibule is a shallow triangular space, bounded laterally by the nvmphas, and behind by the orifice of the vagina. Its apex, directed forward, coincides with the clitoris. The Meatus Urinarius, the external oj)ening of the urethra, is situated in the median line, at the back 2)art of the vestibule, about an inch behind the clitoris,,