64 ELEMENT A B Y TISS UES. The primitive sheath has on its inner surface a nucleus for each internode, midway between the ends of the latter. Either or both of the sheaths may be lacking; and in the latter case the axis-cylinder alone is left, and we have a pale fibre instead of a white one. In brief, the axis is always present as the one essential thing in a nerve-fibre; if it is coated with the medullary sheath, it is a white fibre ; and it may be in one part naked and in another clothed. There is no break in the continuity of the axis from one end to the other. The filaments or fibrillse composing it are held together by a cement called neuroplasm,. A number of nerve-fibres gathered into a coherent bundle constitutes a/imfeit- lus (" little rope "). It is enclosed in a sheath of laminated fibrous tissue, called perineurium (" around nerve "), from the innermost layer of which shelf-like trabec- ultB project between iri'egular groups of nerve-fibres, and compose the end on curium (" within nerve"). A single funiculus with its wraj)pings may constitute a nerve; but usually a number of funiculi are grouped together in a nerve, and, when this obtains, they are kept in close relation to each other by a common sheath, the epineurium ("upon nerve"). The bundles in a nerve have a network arrangement, each funiculus splitting up more or less at short intervals, and its component fibres passing into neighboring funiculi (Fig. 63). The fibres, however, always retain their in- dividuality : while they cross and recross in the nerve, and any one of them may be an ingredient of many funiculi in passing Fig. 63.—Connection between the bundles in nerve. (Dalton.) Fig. 64.—Branching of a nerve. (Dalton.) from centre to periphery, there is never any coalescence between them. In the branching of nerves the same rule is observed : a funiculus lets some of its fibres switch off at the side or separates them into substantially equal parts, but the fibres themselves remain undivided (Fig. 64). The larger vessels of a nerve course in its sheath, and the capillaries are arranged in long meshes between the fibres. The epineurium is also supplied with nerves, called nervi nervorum (" the nerves of the nerves "). The origin of nerves varies with their function. Those which convey impulses from the centre to the periphery, called efferent nerves (meaning " carrying from"), grow outward from nerve-cells in the centre ; while those which convey impres- sions from the periphery to the centre, called afferent (meaning "carrying to") or sensory nerves, grow inward from nerve-cells in organs of special sense or in