THE ARTERIES. 409 of the encephalon. A point of practical importance in this connection is the fact that the arteries which supply the brain are terminal arteries, and that there is no anastomosis between the vessels supplying the ganglia and central structures of the brain and the vessels supplying . Anurior communicaiing the cortcx. As a rcsult, whcnevcr an injury or lesion to an artery of the brain occurs, the portion of the brain rior Cerebral tissuc Supplied by the vcsscl beyond -Middle Cerebral the polut of the Icsiou has its arterial supply permanently cut off, and ne- ; (.aroiid erosis and softening follow. Posterior Communicating Posterior Cerebral Superior Cerebellar Anterior Inferior Cerebellar Basilar Posterior Inferior Cerebellar Vertebral Posterior Sjiinal Anterior Sjjinal Fig. 455.—Key to Fig. 454. The Internal Mammary Artery (Fig. 456). This vessel is given off from the ante- rior surface of the first portion of the sub- clavian. It passes downward to the inner surface of the cartilage of the first rib, runs downward between the costal cartilages and the pleura, about half an inch external to the liorder of the sternum, to the sixth intercostal space, and there divides into the superior epigastric and musculo-phrenic arteries. In its course it gives off the su- perior phrenic, tlie mediastinal, the ante- rior intercostal, and the anterior perforat- ing. The superior jjhrenic accompanies the phrenic nerve in its distribution. The mediastinal branches are distributed to the structures of the anterior mediastinum. The anterior intercostals are given off at each of the upper five or six intercostal spaces and supply the anterior portion of those spaces, anastomosing with the aortic intercostal arteries. The perforating branches pierce the intercostal muscle in each space, and pass forward and outward to supply the pectoral muscle, the mam- mary gland, and the integument over the pectoral region. The terminal brandies are the musculo-phrenic and superior epigastric. The musculo-phrenic winds outward and downward along the inner Fig. 45fi.—Internal mammary and deep epigas- tric arteries. (Testut.)