737 THE LARGE INTESTINE. hodij, and on its hind surface is marked off from the head by a vertical depression, sometimes called the ncek, in which are lodged the portal vein and the superior mesenteric vessels. All of the pancreas except the head is quite movable. The color of the gland is pinkish, its xveigid between two and three ounces, its length about six inches, its breadth two inches, and its thickness about half an inch. In infancy and early youth it gi'ows rapidly, and in old age it undergoes atrophy. The Structure of the Pancreas (Fig. 797).—Structurally it is a comjiound acinous gland, consisting of minute tubes, coiled up in little masses, called lobules. These are bunched together into lobes, and all thejiartsare held in more or less close relation to one another by areolar tissue, which spreads out over the surfaces every- where, and is also continuous with that of the immediate neighborhood. The secretori/ cells ave commonly short cones, whose apices point toward the lumen of the tube. Besides these are certain cells of spindle-shaiie, lying against the free ends of the first mentioned, and protruding into the bore —called the centro-acinous cells. The excretory ducts at their beginning are fine tubes, consisting of a single layer of flattened epithelium, and Ivins: 'to in the delicate connective tissue. The union of Fio. 797.—Cross section of pancreatic acini. (Testut.) fibrous coat is added these forms larger ducts, and these in turn join to make those of greater size, until a single great channel, the pancreatic duct, results. As the tubes increase in size, a outside of the epithelial, and this is thickest in the largest ducts. The pancreatic duct (Fig. 798) runs from the tail to the head, in the very centre of the gland, and then bends downward, leaves the pancreas, enters the wall of the duodenum in the concavity of its second ])ortion, unites with the com- mon bile-duct, and the compound duct perforates the mucous membrane. An accessory duct is usually found, sjiringing from the main duct at about the neck of the gland, and emptying into the duodenum an inch above the other. Development.—The pancreas begins in the embryo as a sprout from the intes- tine, and this initial tube and its branches become the ducts of the mature organ, the true gland tissue budding from these little stalks as leaves form upon a twig. The vessels follow the interloljular connective tissue, and, as in all glands, are. supplied as capillaries to the secreting organism. 47