120 THE BONES. in the lumbar, or the reverse. Whether the extra vertebra be thoracic or lumbar, the characters of this vertebra are more those of the lumbar type. Or, again, the number of movable vertebrae may be increased or decreased by one, causing an increase or decrease of one in the thoracic or lumbar group. This increase is usually in the lumbar series, the lower one of which may be partly united to the sacrum. Table shoiving the Characters of the Typieal Vertebrce of Each Group. Cervical. pro- Bodies ; Pedicles: Lamina?: Spinous cesses: Transverse pro- cesses : Costal process: Superior articu- lar processes: Inferior articu- lar processes Spinal foramen Small, transversely elon- gated. Sloped downward and forward. Lipped lat- erally. No costal facets. Pass outward and back- ward. Notches above and below nearly equal. Long, slender, flattened. vShort, strong, bifid, and nearly horizontal. Short, slender, directed outward and forward. Slender, flat, ossified to the vertebra and transverse process. Flat, Directed upward and slightly backward. Flat. Directed downward and slightly forward. Large, triangular, wide. Thoracic. Heart-shaped. Deeper be- hind. Nearly equal transversely and antero- posteriorly. Costal facets. Pa.ss backward. Inferior notches deeper than supe- rior. Broad, short, imbricated. Long, projecting downward and overlapping. Long, strong. Project out- ward and backward. Ar- ticulate with tubercles of ribs. A separate bone (i. e. a rib). Flat. Directed backward and slightly outward. Flat, Directed forward and slightly inward. Smaller, circular. Lumbar. Large, elongated trans- versely. No costal facets. Pass backward and slightly outward. Liferior notches deep. Short, deep, and thick. Quadrate, horizontal ; of medium length. Rudimentary, as "acces- sory process." Ossified to vertebra. Flat, thin, "transverse pro- cess." Slightly concave. Directed inward and slightly back- ward. Slightly convex. Directed outward and slightly for- ward. Larger than in the thoracic. Triangular, wide. The one distinguishing feature of a cervical vertebra is the costo-transverse foramen ; of a thoracic vertebra, the articular facet or demi-facet on the body; and of a lumbar, the absence of both of these peculiarities. THE SACRAL VERTEBR.^. These in early life 23resent the elements of five distinct vertebrte, but in the adult they are united into a curved triangular bone, the os sacram, so called from its use in sacrifice (Figs. 141-143). It articulates laterally with "the two hip- bones of the pelvic girdle, and, with the coccyx, completes the pelvis behind and above. In the erect position the sacrum lies obliquely, its upper surface or base inclined well forward. The sacral vertebrae decrease in size from above downward, thus giving a triangular shape, with a base, apex, ventral, dorsal, and lateral surfaces. Its separate elements present most, if not all, of the component parts of the movable vertebrae ; and the different parts of the sacrum are best understood when studied with reference to these parts. The base of the sacrum, or the upper surface of the first sacral vertebra, resembles that of a lumbar vertebra. The large, transversely oval uj^per surface of the body extends forward to meet the ventral surface at the promontory of the sacrum which forms the dorsal boundary of the pelvic brim. Its superior articular processes, widely separated, look backward and inward like the lumbar, and have well-marked mammillary processes. The foraimen is triangular. On the sides of the body we see the smooth aloe., or wings, on the u])per surface of the lateral masses, which are formed by the fusion of the transverse and costal processes on either side. The alae are continuous with the iliac fossae on each side.