THE DUCTLESS GLANDS. 796 THE THYROID BODY. The thyroid body (glandula thyroideci) (Fig. 866) has, independently of its function of internal secretion, a claim to the name of gland, because it began its Fig. 866.—The thyroid budy and the related blood-vessels. (Testut.) career as a secreting organ with a duct. In the description of the tongue mention was made of the foramen caecum, just at the rear of the hindmost circumvallate papilla. This blind hole is a remnant of the thi/ro-glossal dud, the channel through which the thyroid (in the early foetal condition a compound tubular gland) communicated with the pharynx. In the process of development the duct became shrunken, and finally was nearly obliterated. The acini of the gland, having thenceforth no excretory duct, become dilated with their secretion, which is introduced into the system doubtless through the lymphatics, perhaps, also by the veins. The thyroid gland is commonly described in connection with the organs of respiration ; but this association is not justified by likeness of structure or simi- larity of function, and rests merely upon the circumstance of contiguity. The thyroid consists of two lateral lohcfi, usually connected at their lower parts by an isthmus. The gland extends vertically from the fifth or sixth tracheal ring to the side of the thyroid cartilage, and backward to the side of the pharynx and gullet. When present, the isthmus generally lies across the second, third, and fourth rings. The lobes are broadest below and taper to a point above. They are superficially convex, and adapted to the form of the structures against which they lie. Each is about two inches long, one and a fourth inch wide at its broad- est part, and three-fourths of an inch thick ; but these figures are sulyect to great variations in ditferent cases. During menstruation the thyroid of the female is somewhat increased in size. In infancy it is relatively larger than in the adult. The lobes are attached by fibrous tissue to the larynx and trachea, wherever in contact with these organs ; and distinct lateral ligaments bind them to the cricoid and uppermost part of tlie windpijie.