45 THE SUSTENTACULAB TISSUES. THE SUSTENTACULAR TISSUES. Tissues Passively Supporting Other Parts. 1. Ilostly fibrous. («) White Fibrous Tissue (Connective Tissue Proper). (6) Yellow Fibrous Tissue (Elastic Tissue). (c) Areolar Tissue. (d) Adipose Tissue. (e) Gelatinous Tissue. (/) Adenoid Reticular Tissue. ((/) Neuroglia. 2. Cartilaginous. (a) True Cartilage. {b) White Fibro-cartilage. (c) Yellow Fibro-cartilage. 3. Osseous. 4. Dentinal. The members of this large group present many violent contrasts in their physical qualities : we find the soft and the hard, the transparent and the opaque, the flexible and the rigid, the nearly liquid and the almost stonily solid, the fibrous and the granular, the moist and the dry, the colorless, the white, the yel- low, the pearly, and the pink. And yet, in spite of these antipodal traits, the individuals making up this class have certain common characteristics which dis- tinguish it from all others. One which strikes the attention most forcibly is the absolute passivity of every member of it: not one of them does anything actively ; they stand still like stocks and stones, and are acted upon by the other tissues; they originate no action. But the service which they perform, though humble, is of essential importance, and is measurably presented to the mind by any one of the various names borne by the group. " Sustentacular" suits our purpose excellently, suggesting mechanical support, the upholding that requires strength and endurance. " Connective substance " is good, as referring to a very prominent function—the uniting of neighboring parts. " Connective tissue," of course, inherently carries an equal significance, but the term has been so much used to designate a leading member of the group, that it is not always certain to convey one's intent to include all of them. " Skeletal" is highly descriptive to one who has divested his mind of the popular notion that nothing but bony structures are entitled to be considered a skeleton. Probably the best term of all in our language is " framework," because everybody knows that a framework may be made of any materials which have suitable physical qualities, and under- stands that it does the work of supporting mechanically, of connecting near and distant parts of the whole, and of keeping these same parts away from each other—the last being an office quite as important as the more prominently men- tioned connective work. As, however, the term is so little used in a titular way by anatomists, another has been selected to distinguish the group. The word " framework," like " skeletal," to an anatomist suggests far more than the massive, bony staging, which is the gross basis of the human form. To him it means the delicate, and even microscopic, rafters, beams, and shelves, whicli serve to give definite shape to minute organs and to small parts of large structures, and to keep their active portions from pressing upon and being pressed upon by each other. So, too, in his mind, " connective " has both macroscopic and micro- scopic applications. It is a name given to the tissue of which are made the bands which tie the bones together, and the strong, flexible sinews which unite contractile organs to the parts which they move ; and it is equally deserved by minute parts which, on a small scale, do work of a comparable kind.