THE LIQUID TISSUES. 57 the vessels and nerves. The tubules branch as they pass toward the surface of the tooth, and the matrix is particularly dense just around them, thus forming a thick wall for each (Fig. 48). The peripheral pulp-cells, called odontoblasts (" tooth- germs"), send delicate processes into the tubules. The undulations of the micro- scopic tubules produce an appearance of striation which is visible to the naked eye. THE LIQUID TISSUES. Tissues Perp^orming a Nutritive Function. An elaborate presentation of the liquid tissues is not needed in an elementary vfork on anatomy, for a knowledge of them, except in a superficial way, is not required for the comprehension of the description of macroscopic structures. Consequently, they are treated here in a cursory manner, and the student is referred to his text-book on physiology for more detailed accounts of them. The liquid tissues are— The Lymph. The Blood. They originate in connective tissue, but are so different from it in appearance, physical properties, and function as to merit consideration in a group by themselves. The Lymph. - Fine and closely stowed as are the elements of the tissues, there are between them spaces, mere chinks and crannies, extremely diminutive and indescribably irregular, into which ooze from the blood of neighboring vessels nutrient mate- rials, and from the tissues themselves the substances which result from their waste. Thus, the tissues are constantly bathed in a mixture of their food and excrement. The spaces containing this fluid communicate freely with each other, and open into the beginnings of minute and delicate tubes, which last, uniting with others of similar size, form larger tubes; these pursue a like course, and so on until tubes of considerable capacity are reached. The little crevices and the tubes are respectively li/mpJt-spaces and lymph-vessels, and their contents are called lymph. The word "lymph" etymologically means ''water," but histologically and physiologically it is much more than this. It varies in composition in dif- ferent parts, l)eing poorest at the periphery and richest near the centre. Exam- ined microscopically, it is seen to consist of a clear, fluid portion, liquor lymphce ("the liquid of the lymph"), and a cellular portion, the latter floating in the former, so that this is a tissue whose intercellular substance is liquid. The cells are lymph-corpuscles, and are spheroidal, granular, jelly-like, colorless bodies, aver- aging 2tVit i"*^'^^ diameter each, with a vaguely defined nucleus, and capable of amoeboid movements. They are sometimes called leucocytes ("white cells"), because of the whitish appearance of a mass of them. The lymph-vessels which absorb lymph from the small intestines contain, during the intestinal digestion of food, not only ordinary lymph, but also products of the digestive process. This mixture is called chyle, and is milky-looking from the fact that, like milk, it contains a large proportion of oily material finely subdivided—pulverized, we would say, if it were a solid. The Blood. Like the lymph, the blood is a tissue composed of cells and a liquid intercel- lular substance. The fluid portion is called liquor sanguinis ("the liquid of the blood ") or plasma. In it float microscopic particles of various kinds (Fig. 49), of which the most conspicuous and easily demonstrated are the colorless and the colored corpuscles, the former, though without a tint, often being called white, and the latter, though yellowish, red, because, when seen in heaps, they present respectively the hues which these names suggest.