551 THE OBLONGATA. to consider them in their natural connections as the continuous walls of this chamber. The upper, wide-spread portif)n of the fourth ventricle (that part which is usually thought of when the ventricle is named) is nearly rhomboidal or lozenge- shaped. It presents a ventral part, called the floor ; a dorsal part, the rooj; an upper or anterior angle, a lower or posterior, and two lateral angles. The upper or anterior sides are formed by the superior cerebellar ])eduncles, the lower or posterior sides by the inferior cerebellar peduncles, all of which overlap the floor a little. The Floor (Fig. 605).—The upper portion of the floor is furnished by the pons, the lower by the oblongata. In its whole extent the floor is cleft longi- tudinally by a median fissure, and a description of one half answers perfectly for the other. In the Pontile Portion.—Sloping down from the upper angle, parallel with and close to the superior peduncle is a strij) of bluish hue, the locus ceruleus. In Fig. 611.—Diagram of the motor nuclei in and near Fig. 612.—Diagram of the sensory nuclei in the floor of the fourth ventricle. (Testut.) the floor of the fourth ventricle. (Testut.) line with this and below it at the lateral angle is a shallow depression, the fovea superior. Between the fovea and the middle line is a w'liite tubercle, the eminentia teres. In the Ohlongatal Portion.—Below the eminentia teres and, like it, close to the median cleft, is another and larger white projection, forming a triangular ridge which extends nearly to the lower angle. It is the hypoglosml area. At the outer side of the last is the piieumogastric or retgus area, a gray, somewhat tri- angular space, the lowest part of which is slightly depressed, and is called the fovea inferior. Between the vagus area and the lateral angle is a white elevation, the auditory area, whose upper part is called the acoustic tubercle. Large white threads, the strice acusticce, pass outward from the mid-line, and are gathered into a bundle beneath the projecting restis, forming a root of the auditory nerve. At the lower angle is the obex. The Roof (Fig. 598).—The roof is formed above by the valvula, which stretches between the superior peduncles ; below by the metatela, which spans the space between the inferior peduncles. The lower edge of the valvula is continued downward and backM'ard into a thin white layer, derived from the centre of the cerebellar vermis ; and the upper border of the metatela is continuous with the pia and endyma, respectively covering and lining a similar layer which runs downward and backward from the white of the vermis. Thus, the roof is farthest from the floor, and forms a tent, at the point where these cerebellar laminfe separate—the one to go up (forward) to the valvula, the other to go down (backward) to end by a free edge of nervous tissue, from which the roof is con-