3IUSCLES MOVING THE LEG. 301 margins of the latter foramen. Direction, backward to the small sacro-sciatie foramen, around the ischium, and thence outward. Insertion, the front part of the inner surface of the great trochanter. Action, in extension of the thigh, exter- nal rotation ; in flexion of the thigh, abduction. Gemellus Inferior (Fig. 344).—" The lower little twin muscle." Situation, below the tendon of the obturator internus. Origin, the upper part of the tuberosity of the ischium. Direction, outward. Insertion, the front of the inner surface of the great trochanter. Action, assistant to the obturator internus. Nerve, from the sacral plexus. MUSCLES MOVING THE LEG. Flexors. Extensor. Sartorius. Quadriceps extensor cruris, comprising Biceps flexor cruris. Rectus femoris. Semitendinosus. Vastus externus. Semimembranosus. Vastus internus. Popliteus. Vastus intermedins. Of the five flexors three arise from the pelvis alone, one from the pelvis and femur, and one from the femur alone. Thus, four of them cross l>oth the hip- and the knee-joints, and become extensors of the thigh, whenever flexion of the leg is prevented or fully accomplished. One head of the multiple extensor arises from the pelvis, the others from the femur. The part which crosses the hip-joint as well as the knee-joint acts as a flexor of the thigh, when extension is completed or the knee is fixed. Sartorius (Figs. 347, 348, 352).—" The tailor's muscle," so called from its action, which assists in producing the cross-legged position assumed by tailors in sitting on the bench. Situation, in the front and inner side of the thigh, between the ilium and tibia. Origin, the anterior superior iliac spine and part of the notch below. Direction, downward and inward across the front of the thigh, then behind the inner condyle of the femur, and finally forwai'd. Insertion, the inner surface of the tibia, near the tubercle. Action, flexion of the leg and thigh, and synchronous abduction of the thigh; then outward rotation. Nerve, the anterior crural. Biceps Flexor Cruris (Figs. 349, 350, 352).—" The two-headed flexor of the leg." Situation, in the back of the thigh, between the ischium and fibula. Origin, the long head : the inner impression on the ischial tuberosity, in com- mon with the semitendinosus; the short head: the outer li]) of the linea aspera and the up])er two-thirds of the outer supracondylar ridge. Direction, downward and a little outward. Insertion, the head of the fibula and (slightly) the outer tuberosity of the tibia. Its tendon forms the outer hamstring. Action, flexion of the leg, and then external rotation ; also, from its pelvic origin, exten- sion of the thigh. Nerve of the long head, the internal popliteal; of the short liead, tjie external ])opliteal. Semitendinosus (Figs. 349, 351, 352).—"The half-tendon muscle." Situation, in the back of the thigh toward the inner side, between the ischium and tibia. Origin, the inner impression of the ischial tuberosity, in common with the biceps. Direction, downward and a little inward. Insertion, the upper part of the inner surface of the tibia. Actio)i, flexion of the leg, and then inward rota- tion ; also, from its pelvic origin, extension of the thigh. Nerve, the internal popliteal. Semimembranosus (Figs. 353, 354, 349).—" The half-membrane muscle," so called fi'om the peculiar disposition of its tendons. Situation, in the hind and inner part of the thigh, from the ischium to the tibia. Origin, the upper and outer facet of the ischial tuberosity. Direction, downward and a little inward.