THE VEINS. 481 through this plexus. The veins of this plexus have no valves; hence the fre- quency of hemorrhoids from obstruction of the portal circulation in the liver. VEINS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. These, like the veins of the upper extremity, are divided into two sets, super- ficial and deep. Superficial Veins of the Lower Extremity (Figs. 510-512). These consist of two main trunks, internal and external, which commence in an arched plexus over the instep and on the dorsum of the foot, called the dorsal plexus. The Dorsal Plexus receives the dorsal digital veins and branches from the small but numerous plexiform veins of tlie sole, which pass up behind the clefts of the toes and around the outer and inner borders of the foot. . The veins are provided with numerous valves. The Internal or Long Saphenous Vein commences at the inner part of the dorsal plexus, where it re- ceives a vein of large size from the inner side of the great toe, and ends in the femoral vein an inch and a half below the inguinal ligament, after perforating the fascia lata of the saphenous opening. In its course it ascends in front of the internal malleolus, along the inner side of the leg, with the internal saphenous nerve, then behind the internal condyle of the femur, and finally upward and somewhat out- ward on the inner and forepart of the thigh. It is joined by various superficial tributaries along its course, by communicating branches from the deep veins of the sole, leg, and thigh, and, just below its termination, by the superficial cireumfiex iliac, suj)er- fieial epigastric, and external jyudic veins, which ac- company the arteries of the same name, and also in many cases by a large anterior branch, Avhich ascends over the front of the thigh. This vein contains from seven to twenty valves, more numerous in the thigh than in the log. The External or Short Saphenous Vein, com- mencing at the outer part of the dorsal plexus, ascends behind the external malleolus and then on the outer and back part of the leg, with the external saphenous nerve, to the lower part of the popliteal space, where it perforates the deep fascia, and ends in the popliteal vein. Along its course it is joined by superficial branches from the foot, the heel, and the back of the leg, and communicates with the deep veins at the ankle and in the leg. Near its termination a com- municating branch usually runs upward and forward to the internal saphenous vein, and sometimes forms the main outlet of the external saphenous vein. This vein contains from nine to fourteen valves. Fig. 510.—Superficial veins of the front of the leg and foot. (Tes- tut.) 31