793 THE DUCTLESS GLANDS. By F. H. GERRISH. THERE are several organs whose general, gross appearance is very similar to that of secreting glands, but which are conspicuously unlike the latter in the respect that they do not possess any duct by which their secretion is dis- charged. From this fact they have long been called ductless glands. This name involves a seeming paradox, for the word "gland" implies the cajjacity to form a product known as a secretion, and not only had nobody seen a secretion from one of these organs, but the absence of a channel of exit strengthened the idea that there was no such material to be discharged. With this view of the case authors endeavored to devise a name for this class of bodies, which should be more in accordance with the supposed facts. No such name, however, obtained general adoption, and the old title continued to be commonly employed, though with a mental protest by those who disliked inaccurate nomenclature. In recent years investigations along physiological and pathological lines have shown that some of these organs have a profound influence upon nutritive changes in the body, and have established the fact of " internal secretion." In other words some of these bodies have been found to form substances out of materials brouglit to them in the circulation, and to discharge these products of their activity into the blood ; and it is rendered highly probable that the others of the group have a similar office. Since the fact of internal secretion is so well estab- lished, it is unnecessary longer to seek for another name for this class of organs, which, though ductless, are really glands. These glands are the spleen, the thyroid body, the thymus, the suprarenal capsules, the hypophysis, the parathyroids, and the carotid and coccygeal glands. Some writers include the tonsils and the epiphysis in the enumeration ; but the former are more properly counted among the lymphatic structures, and the latter probably has no appreciable use, being an aborted attempt at the formation of a third eye. It is not inappropriate to remark in this connection that the possession of a secretion and an excretory duct for it does not necessarily prevent an organ's having an additional function of like nature Avith that of the ductless glands. F<)r example, the liver has other duties besides that of secreting the bile ; and the testicles, while forming the essential elements of the semen, exert a profound impression upon the physical and mental attributes of the individual, as best shown in the arrest of development in various directions in those persons who have been castrated before reaching the age of puberty. THE SPLEEN. The spleen {lien) (Fig. 864) is the largest of the ductless glands. It is situ- ated in the dorsal part of the epigastric and left hypochondriac regions, behind