THE NEBVES. 622 sending a branch to join the first himbar nerve, passes outward beneath the exter- nal arcuate ligament of the diaphragm and enters the abdomen. It runs along the lower border of the last rib, and enters the space between the transversalis and internal oblique, and is afterward arranged as one of the lower intercostals. Its lateral cutaneous branch remains undivided and is distributed to the gluteal region a little behind the anterior superior iliac spine. The muscles supplied by the intercostal nerves are the levatores costarum, serrati posteriores, intercostals, triangularis sterni, transversalis abdominis, exter- nal and internal oblique, rectus, and pyramidalis. THE LUMBAR NERVES. The anterior divisions of the tive lumbar nerves increase in size from above downward. They communicate with the symjjathetic by rami communicantes which reach them by running along the sides of the lumbar arteries under the fibrous arches from which the psoas muscle takes origin. Of these five nerves the upper three, with a communication from the twelfth thoracic and a considerable part of the fourth lumbar nerve, from the hmhar plexus, and the rest of the fourth lumbar nerve, with the whole of the fiftli, join the sacral nerves in forming the sacral plexus. The Lumbar Plexus (Fig. 671). This plexus is found embedded in the substance of the psoas muscle, which must be removed piece by piece for its proper demonstration. Fig. 671.—Plan of lumbar plexus. (W. Keiller.) A glance at the diagram will show its general constitution. From the first lumbar nerve spring the iliohypogastric and ilioinguinal nerves, from the first and second the genitocrural, from the second and third comes the external cutaneous, while large sections of the second, third, and fourth nerves form the anterior crura.1, and smaller more anterior sections of the same trunks unite to form the obturator nerve. The accessory obturator is a small, inconstant branch derived from the third and fourth nerves, and branches supply the psoas and quadratus lumborum from nearly all the nerves in a somewhat irregular manner. Regarding their relations to the psoas muscle, the iliohypogastric, ilioinguinal, external cutaneous, and anterior crural nerves emerge from its outer border, the last nerve running down its outer side to pass under the inguinal (Poupart s)