THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 808 before backward, sacculated, resembles the seminal vesicle, and is called the ampulla of Henle. The anterior surface of the latter is directly applied to the bladder wall; the posterior is separated from the rectum for a short distance above by the recto-vesical pouch of the peritoneum, below this, by the recto- vesical fascia. The external border of the ampulla lies in contact with the inner border of the corresponding seminal vesicle. The ampullae of opposite sides are separated by a triangular space, the mterdeferential triangle, the apex of which corresponds to the base of the prostate, and in the opening of which the bladder and rectum are in almost immediate contact, separated only by the recto-vesical fascia. Close to the base of the prostate the ampulla again becomes narrow and straight, and is joined on its outer side by the corresponding seminal vesicle, to form one of the common or ejaculatory ducts. Minute Anatomy.—The walls of the vas consist of three coats—areolar, mus- cular, and mucous. The outer or areolar coat is comj^osed of fibrous tissue, mixed with blood-vessels, nerves, and smooth muscular fibres, arranged parallel to the long axis of the canal. The muscular coat constitutes about four-fifths of the entii'e thickness of the wall, and gives to the vas a firm, resistant feel, by means of which it may easily be distinguished from the other elements of the cord. It is composed of smooth muscular fibres, arranged in three planes. In the superficial and deep planes the fibres are longitudinal, in the median, which is much the thickest, they are circular. The nmcous coat is whitish, presents three or four longitudinal folds, which are effaced by distention, and is lined by cylindrical, non-ciliated epithelium. In the amjjulla the walls are thinner, and the mucous membrane presents many folds, which, uniting at divers angles, give to this portion an areolar appearance, resembling the seminal vesicles. These areolfe are lined by cubical epithelium. Vessels and Nerves.—The artery, a branch of the superior vesical, joins the vas near its origin, and accompanies it to the testicle, anastomosing in the latter with the spermatic artery. The veins empty into the vesico-prostatic plexus and the veins of the cord. The nerves come from the inferior hypogastric plexus. The vas aberrans (" vessel wandering from ") is a narrow tube which comes from the lower end of the canal of the epididymis, or from the beginning of the vas. Becoming convoluted into an irregular mass, it extends upward be- tween the structures mentioned for an inch or more, and ends in a csecal extremity. The tube when uncoiled measures from one and a half to fifteen inches in length. It agrees in structure with the vas, and is a relic of the upper part of the Wolffian body. THE SEMINAL VESICLES. The seminal vesicles (Figs. 874, 875) are two lobulated pouches, serving as reservoirs for the semen, to which they add a secretion of their own. They are placed one on either side, external to the ampullaj of the vasa deferentia, and between the bladder and the rectum. Each vesicle is pyramidal in form, with the broad end directed backward, meas- ures two inches in length, and about a half inch in breadth at its posterior and widest part, and presents two surfaces, two borders, and two extremities. The anterior surface is attached to the base of the bladder, overlapping, for a short distance above, the ureter. The posterior surface is convex and covered Pig. 875.—Base of the bladder, showing tlie semi- nal vesicles and the vasa deferentia. (Testut.)