THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 726 unbroken sheet, as is that of the small intestine, is ahnost wholly gathered into three equal, ribbon-like bands (tcenia coli), one-third of an inch, or a little more, in width, which are placed length- MUSCULAR BAND wise at equidistant intervals, the small remaining portion being spread in a deli- cate lamina over the residue of the tube. The inner, circular layer, like the sub- jacent areolar and mucous tunics, forms an even tube from end to end ; but these outer strips of muscle are much shorter than this musculo-areolo-mucous tube, and, as their extremities are attached to its corresjjonding extremities, there neces- sarily ensues a great puckering included in their grasp. Between the bands are deep, transverse creases, each bounded by prominent bulges ; and an inspection of the bore of the tube shows a sharp ridge {plica sigmoidea), corresponding to each depression of the outer surface, and a large recess (haustrum), collocated with each external protrusion. This saccula- tion and the cause of it are characteristic. Whenever one is in doubt as to whether a given knuckle belongs to large or small intestine, the presence or absence of the longitudinal ribbons will settle the question at once. Although the ridges, which encroach upon the lumen of this gut, look like overgrown valvulse conniventes, their structural character is radically different. A connivent valve (Fig. 781) is merely a fold of mucous membrane, strength- USCULAR BAND MUSCULAR BAND Fig. 780.—Segment of large intestine, showing the characteristic features of its structure. (Testut.) MUCOUS COAT 'AREOLAR COAT "internal MUSCULAR LAYER external muscular layer "serous coat Fig. 781.—Diagram to show the structure of the valvulse conniventes. Compare with next cut. (F. H. G.) ened by a thin plate of areolar tissue; but a plica sigmoidea (Fig. 782) is the result of an infolding of everything inside of the muscular ribbons. Remove MUCOUS COAT areolar COAT jnternal muscular layer ^^glEXTERNAL MUSCULAR LAYER erous coat Fig. 782.- (F. H. G.) -Diagram to show the structure of the plicae sigmoideae. Compare with the preceding cut. these bands from the bowel, and straighten it, and the plicae will disappear, leav- ing an even, uninterrupted bore ; but no such result will ensue, if you dissect off the longitudinal lamina of muscle from the small intestine : the little valves will remain exactly as before.