132 THE BONES. fulcrum in the movements of the latter. It is curved like an italic /. Its inner two-thirds, prismatic or cylindrical, is convex forward like the thorax below it; ACROMIAL END Fig. 155.—The right clavicle, upper surface and sternal end. (Testut.) its outer third, flattened from above downward, is concave forward, corresponding to the hollow between the thorax and the shoulder. The superior surface is flat and broad in its outer third, where it is overlap]iod by the attachment of the trapezius behind and the deltoid in front, with a sul)cu- taneous area between. In the inner two-thirds it is rounded and subcutaneous externally, and marked by the attachment of the sterno-cleido-mastoid internally. The ventral surface in its outer third is merely a rough border for the origin of the deltoid, near the inner limit of which is the deltoid tubercle, when present. In its inner two-thirds it is broader, and rough for the origin of the pectoralis major muscle. The inferior surface presents the rough trapezoid Hue, running inward and backward from near the front of the outer end to the conoid tubercle, near the dor.sal border at the junction of the outer fourth and the inner three- fourths. These attach respectively the trapezoid and conoid portions of the coraco- clavicular ligament. Internal to the conoid tubercle is a shallow groove for the insertion of the subclavius muscle. Near the sternal end is a rough impression for the rhomboid lig'ament which binds the clavicle to the first rib. Internal to this impression is a facet where the clavicle plays on the first costal cartilage. This Fig. 156.—The right clavicle, under surface. (Testut.) facet is continuous with the sternal facet, and close beside it the sterno-hyoid mus- cle is attached. The dorscd surface, like the ventral, is merely a rough border in its outer third, where the trapezius muscle is inserted. In its inner two-thirds it is broader and smooth, and arches over the subclavian vessels and the brachial plexus. The nutrient foramen is usually seen passing outward near the middle of this surface, but sometimes it is on the inferior surface. Part of the clavicular attachment of the sterno-cleido-mastoid is found at the sternal end of this surface. The border^ separating the dorsal and inferior surfaces passes from the conoid tubercle to the rhomboid impression. The sternal end is expanded into a triangular or oval articular surfiice, which plays upon the interarticular fibro-cartilage between it and the sternal facet. Its rough borders attach the sterno-clavicular and interclavicular ligaments. The acromial end, presents an oval articular surface, elongated from before backward, ' No other border needs description. The clavicle is often described as having three surfaces and three borders in its inner two-third?, and two in its outer third. In this less common or less accurately described condition the ventral border is expanded in its centre for the attachment of the pectoralis major muscle.