46 ELEMENTARY TISSUES. These tissues are very widely distributed in the body—so extensively, indeed, that their diffusion may almost be declared to be universal. If every particle of material except the sustentacular tissues were to be withdrawn from the body of a person with whom we were well acquainted, there would be no difficulty in recognizing him, even in minute details of foi'm. It is interesting to observe not only that the sustentacular tissues are similar in a functional way, but that they are structui-ally allied. They originate in the same elements of the embryo, to a certain extent they are interchangeable, and they often shade into each other. They consist of cells and intercellular substance, though in most of them, when mature, the cellular elements are inconspicuous, and the material between the cells is so largely developed as to constitute almost the entire bulk of the tissue. White Fibrous Tissue. The name of this tissue is highly descriptive, for it is distinctly white when seen in a mass, and its fibrous character is manifest. It is often called " con- nective tissue proper," or even merely " connective tissue," because of its great abundance, both absolute and comparative, and its very wide distribution ; but, while its conspicuousness among the sustentacular tissues entitles it to the name which implies the fact, the designation is confusing, and would better be dropped in favor of the descriptive appellation which is here chosen. Teased out with needles and viewed with the microscope, it is seen to consist almost wholly of extremely fine, colorless fibrils, arranged side by side in bundles which have an undulating outline (Fig. 28). The fibrils may be very long—some inches—and do not branch. Closely applied to the bundles of fibrils are cells ; but these are not a prominent feature in the adult tissue, and are liable to escape atten- tion unless staining agents are used. The cells proper to the tissue are flattened, irregular, nucleated, gran- ular, and have long pro- cesses (Fig. 29). White fibrous tissue is distinguished chiefly for its great strength and flexibility, and is found where these qualities by themselves are needed. For example, it is almost the only tissue in most of the bands (ligaments) which fasten the bones together, and in the cords (tendons) by which the force of muscular tissue is transmitted to and applied at distant points. In these situations great strength is required, for without it the bones would readily become dislo- cated and the muscular contractions would be fruitless of result; flexibility is demanded, since rigid ligaments and tendons would either jjrevent movement or break, ancl thus prove useless. If, in addition to strength and flexibility, elas- ticity were added, the bones would get out of place during many movements, and muscular contraction, instead of moving the object to which the distal end of the tendon was attached, would be devoted in large part to the stretching of the tendon itself. These illustrations will show that this tissue is well fitted by its physical qualities to make up the ropes, cords, protective sheets, and outer shells of organs. Fig. 28—White (F. H. G.) fibrous tissue. Fig. 29.—Cells of white fibrous tissue, often called counective-tis- sue cells. (F. H. G.)