THE LARYNX. 769 '.{_ CORPUS TRITICEUM LATERAL THYRO- HYOID LIGAMENT hind. 832.—Laryngeal cartilages and ligaments from be- (Testut.) two in number, are located upon tlie upper and l)ack part of the cricoid, and are irregularly pyramidal in shape. Upon the summit of each is a cornieuhmi laryngis (" little horn of the lar- ynx"), somewhat cone-shaped, and bent backward and downward. (The cuneiform cartilages will be mentioned later.) The epiglottic cartilage (Fig. 832), situated, as its name implies, upon (or over) the glottis, is shaped like an oval leaf, its stem being received in the notch between the two wings of the thyroid. Its hind surface is concave above, and is convex below this, the prominence in the centre being called the cushion. The cricoid, the thyroid, and the arytenoids (except the apices of the last) are composed of pure cartilage ; the rest of the cartilages are of the yellow variety. The true cartilages are liable to ossify at any time after maturity is at- tained. At puberty the larynx under- goes great changes of growth, which are especially marked in the male, and are prevented by castration. The position and relations of each of the cartilages are shown in Fig. 832. The Ligaments of the Larynx. The cartilages of the larynx are mf)vably articulated with one another at various points. The lower cornua of the thyroid articulate with the raised oval facets on the outer side of the cricoid ; the arytenoids are jointed with the surfaces at the upper and outer parts of the signet of the cricoid ; and the cornic- ula are usually attached to the apices of the arytenoid pyramids in such a way that motion is permitted. In all of these cases the movement is gliding, or rotary, or both, the car- tilages concerned in a joint are united by a capsular ligament, and the artic- ulation has a true synovial membrane. In addition to these there are numerous ligamentous bands, the most of them largely composed of yellow fibrous tissue, which serve to close in the gaps between nearly related cartilages, and by their elasticity to restore the connected parts when they have been di.splaced by the action of muscles. The names which these ligaments bear are suggestive of situation and action, as they are mostly composed of the names of the cartilages which they connect, and usually also contain some indication of their relative position. 49 LATERAL THYRO- HYOID LIGAMENT BIBIIIW 33.—Laryn;;eal cartilages and ligaments from in front. (Testut.)