651 THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. THE five senses of touch, taste, smell, hearing, and sight have as their special organs the skin, the tongue, the nose, the ear, and the eye respectively. Of the five the commonest, the least specialized sense is that of touch, and its organ is of the greatest extent and the smallest ditferentiation. The other senses dis- play progressively increasing delicacy in the order as named above : touch is excited only by the impact of some body; taste requires the contact of the solu- tion of a sapid substance ; smell is produced by the impression of volatilized materials ; hearing results from the agitation of the endolymph (a fluid contained in the ear), whose wavelets beat upon the auditory surface; and sight is called into being only by the undulations of the ether which is believed to pervade all space. The organs of the senses above the tactile are either localized, inwai'd extensions of the integument or inversions of it, which have become completely isolated. In every case there is a modification of the epithelium of the area concerned, amounting to a specialization. These epithelial cells have already been mentioned, as forming the variety called vewro-epithelhnn for the reason that they are so peculiarlv related to specialized portions of the nervous system. From all of these facts it will be seen that tactile sensibility is the humble progenitor of every other sense, and that, unlikely as it seems to one who does not consider everything which is involved, sight is but touch glorified. THE SKIN. By W. KEILLER, AS one of the main functions of the skin is the sense of touch, it may be con- veniently descrilDcd among the sensory organs ; though, in addition to serving this function, it is protective, and excretory, and an important regulator of the body temperature. It consists (Fig. 695) of a deep layer, called the true skin or corium, which contains nerve endings, vessels, sweat glands, hairs, and sebaceous glands, embedded in a fibrous matrix ; and a superficial, epithelial layer, the epidermis or cuticle, which covers and protects the whole, and furnishes the epithelial elements of the glands and hairs just mentioned.