THE FASCIA OF THE FOREARM. 355 The Subscapular Fascia. The subscapular fascia is attached to the margins of the fossa of the same Fig. 415.—The fascia; (jf tliu shuulcifr, seen in liorizontui .section. (Testut.) name, and forms a covering for the subscapularis muscle. The Supraspinous Fascia. The supraspinous fascia, dense and strong, is attached to the borders of the fossa above the spine of the scapula, thus completing the osseo-fibrous chamber, which is filled by the supraspinatus muscle. The Infraspinous Fascia. The infraspinous fascia is like the last named in structure and similar in arrangement, being attached at the edges of the lower fossa on the dorsum of the scapula, thus forming with the bone a cavity, which is completely occupied by the infraspinatus. Where this muscle is overlapped by the hind border of the deltoid the fascia splits, one layer passing upon the latter muscle and forming part of the deltoid fascia, the other going in front of the deltoid and ending by fusion with the fibrous structure of the shoulder-joint. The Deltoid Fascia. The deltoid fascia covers in the deltoid muscle. It is continuous behind with the infraspinous fascia, in front with tlie pectoral. It is fastened above to the bones from which the muscle takes origin, and is continuous below with the fascia of the arm. THE FASCIA OF THE ARM. The brachial fascia is continuous above witli the pectoral and axillary fasciae, as well as with that of the shoulder, and below with that of the forearm. It is attached to the condyles of the humerus and the olecranon process. It not only enwraps the muscles of the brachial region, but from its inner surface sends septa between them. The greater part of these partitions are merely areolar, but two are strong and rigid, and need especial mention. One of them is attached to the outer border of the bicipital groove, the outer condylar ridge, and the intervening portion of the shaft; the other is similarl}' situated on the inner side—thus being formed the external and infernal intermuscular se2:)ta, which divide the muscles into an anterior and a posterior set. THE FASCIA OF THE FOREARM. The forearm fascia is a direct continuation of the brachial fascia above, and ends below in the fascia of the hand. It has attachments to the olecranon and the posterior border of the ulna. From its inner surface many septa are given