743 THE LIVEB. the gall-bladder fissure is a large, uneven area, the right lobe. Behind the left portion of the portal fissure appears the lower edge of the Spif/dian (obc, the main portion of which is visible only from behind. Finally, a narrow ridge behind the, portal fissure connects this inferior border of the Spigelian lobe with the right lobe, and is dubbed the caudate lobe, from its fancied resemblance to the tail of an animal. About one-half the area of the right lobe at the front and right is notably concave and receives the hepatic fiexure of the colon. At the left of this, and obliquely behind the gall-bladder, is a small impression in which a knuckle of the du(xlenum is located ; and behind both of these areas is a some- what rhomboidal hollow which is occupied by the upper end of the right kidney. A considerable part of the sui face of the left lobe is concave and fits the bulging fundus of the stomach ; but there is a prominent protuberance at the right and behind (the tuber omentale) against wliich lie the gastro-hepatic omentum, and the smaller curvature of the stomach. The Hind Surface (Fig. 803) presents two parallel, vertical grooves : one, narrow and shoal, connecting the umbilical fissure of the under surface with the Fig. 803.—The liver, posterior surface. A part of tbe under surface is seen from the rear view, and this is shown merely in outline. (Drawn from the His cast. F. H. G.) posterior end of the space between the two layers of the suspensory ligament on the upper side, and containing the shrunken remnant of the rluctns venosus of foetal life ; the other, broad and deep, corresponds to the gall-bladder fissure of the under side, at the lower end is separated from it only by the breadth of the caudate lobe, and furnishes a spacious lodging for some inches of the vena cava inferior. These fissures are known by the names of the structures which are embedded in them. Between them lies a rectangular space called the Hpigelian lobe, whose lower margin is seen on the inferior surfiice, and whose upper edge is visible from above. At the right of the vena-cava fissure is the large, convex right lobe; and at the left of the ductus-venosus fissure is the left lobe, small in extent, somewhat triangular in shape at the right, and rapidly tapering at the left and becoming a mere margin, which is directly continuous around the left extremity of the liver with the anterior border.