450 THE BLOOD-VASCULAB SYSTEM. the second and third, the third and fourth, the fourth and fifth. The contiguous sides of the great toe and second toe will be found, in the description of the dorsalis pedis, to be supjilied by its deep plantar branch. Opposite the web of the toes each digital branch gives off a perforating artery, which anastomoses with the dorsal interosseous arteries. lower border of the popliteus muscle. It The Anterior Tibial Artery (Fig. 486). The anterior tibial artery begins at the bifurcation of the popliteal, at the passes between the heads of origin of the tibialis posterior muscle, above the upper border of the interosseous membrane, to the anterior surface of the leg, runs downward on the ante- rior surface of the interosseous mem- brane, accompanied by the anterior tibial nerve and vense comites, and in a position external to the tibialis anterior muscle, to the bend of the ankle. Here the vessel becomes the dorsalis pedis. Relations of the Anterior Tibial, Artery. Li front. Skin, superficial and deep fasciae. Tibialis anterior muscle. Tendon of the extensor proprius pol- licis. ANTERIOR TIBIAI /J RECURRENT ANTERIOR TIBI« NERVE Inner side. Tibialis anterior. Anterior tibial artery. Outer side. Anterior tibial nerve. Extensor longus digitorum. Extensor pro- prius hallucis. ANTERIOR PERONEAL EXTERNAL MALLEOLAR INTERNAL ALLEOLAR Behind. Interosseous membrane. Tibia. Fig. 486.—Anterior tibial artery. (Testut.) Variations.—The anterior tibial may be very small, or absent, its place being taken by branches from the posterior tibial or peroneal. It has been seen to accompany the mus- culo-cutaneous nerve, winding around the fibula to reach the front of the leg. Surgical Anatomy (Fig. 487).—In amputations of the leg the anterior tibial is ligated. It shoidd be noted that it lies in front of the interosseous membrane, and external to the til)ialis anterior, and that it is accompanied by vense comites and the anterior tibial nerve. The anterior tibial can be ligated at any part of its course through an incision along the line of the outer border of the tibialis anterior muscle. This incision should divide the skin, superficial and deep fasciie. The outer border of the tibialis anterior is found ; this muscle is then separated from the two other muscles on the front of the leg : the extensor longus digitorum and