THE CEREBBO-SPINAL AXIS. 538 The mesencephalon is often called the isthmus of the brain, because it is the narrow neck by which the great cerebral mass above is connected with the struct- ures below. Its ventral part is shaped like two pillars converging to the pons, and is called the crura cerebri ; its dorsal ^irotrudes in four tubercles, the corpora quadrigemina. Its cavity is the aqueduct. The cerebeUwni is a large, solid body, the second of the brain-masses in size, and constitutes the dorsal portion of the wall of the fourth ventricle. It is con- nected above by the superior cerebellar peduncles with the quadrigemina ; in front by the middle cerebellar peduncles with the pons ; and below by the inferior cerebellar peduncles with the oljlongata. The j^ons is situated between the isthmus above and the oblon- gata below, and forms the ventral part of the wall of the foui'th ventricle. It bulges in front and laterally, and runs back on each side into the middle cerebellar peduncle. Between the dorsal surface of the pons and the ven- tral surface of the cerebellum is the upper half of the fourth ven- tricle. Below the pons is the oblon- gata, developed from the fifth vesicle. It is shaped like an irregular, inverted, truncated cone. Below it is continuous with the spinal cord. The upper part of its cavity is the lower part of the fourth ventricle proper, and the rest of it is tubular and directly continuous with the central canal of the spinal cord. The columns of fibrous nervous tissue are chiefly continued upward from the spinal cord through the oblongata, the pons, and the isthmus, to the higher levels of the brain; but some of them switch off dorsally to the cerebellum, thus con- stituting the inferior peduncle of that body. The gray nervous tissue, also, is continued upward from the cord, and a portion of it is thus connected with the highest collections of gray matter in the cerebrum ; Init in the oblongata con- siderable masses are detached by the intrusion and crossing from one side to the other of large bundles of white nervous tissue, and at various points are found new collections of nerve-cells, which are not the representatives of any nuclei at lower levels. THE MESENCEPHALON: The Region of the Aqueduct. Next below the thalamencephalon comes the mesencephalon, otherwise known as the mid-brain, from its situation, and as the isthmus cerebri, because it is the constricted bond of union between the parts which result from the development of the first and second encephalic vesicles and those which come from the fourth and fifth. Its direction is from before backward and a little downward. Viewed from below it dis]ilays a ventral surface, which is marked by two short, thick, white columns, converging toward the pons, like the limbs of the letter V, and called the crura cerebri (" legs of the brain "), and also the cerebral peduncles ("little feet") (Fig. 596). Between the crura is a triangular area, already described as the hind part of the interpeduncular space (see page 534). The dorsal surface is not visible until certain overlying structures have been removed. It then presents to view four prominent knobs, the corpora^ quadriffemina (" four-twin bodies "), and the upper portion of the superior cerebellar peduncles (Fig. 597). The quadrigemina are arranged in pairs, an upper (anterior) pair, Fig. 593.—Diagram of the parts of tlie encephalon below the thalami, left side.