790 THE URINARY SYSTEM. a gentle curve which is concave forward, and the third portion has a curve (so sharp as to be almost an angle) about midway of its length (Fig. 860). This second curve is obliterated when the body of the penis is raised, as in the intro- duction of an instrument to the bladder through the urethra, and also durino- erection. The part of the urethra between this curve and the bladder is called Fig. 860.—Proximal portions of urethra with surrounding parts. (After Testut.) the fixed portion ; but it is practicable for a skilled hand to pass a straight instru- ment into the bladder without injuring the tube or its surroundings. The hore of the urethra varies in size and shape in different parts (Fig. 861). The prostatic portion has the largest calil)re, measuring one-third of an inch half way of its course, and a little less at its extremities. It is also the most dis- tensible segment. In its hind surface (the floor) is an elevation Avhich rises gradually from behind and then descends more abruptly (Fig. 862). This is called by various names—verumontanum, " a mountain spit," eapnt (/(lU'rnaginis, " the cock's head," eolliculus seminaUs, the little seminal hill." From the sum- mit of this ridge a little tubular cavity runs upward and backward for al)out half an inch, called utems mem-n/imiy, "the male womb," because it is the homologue of the uterus of the female. It is also called smus pocularis, " the cuplike hol- low," and vesicida j)'>'ostatica, " the prostatic vesicle." Upon its lateral lij)s open the two ejaculatory ducts, through which the sgmen is squirted into the urethra. On each side of this mound is a groove, the prostatic sinus, into which open the most and the largest of the ducts from tlie glandular masses of the ])rostate, the smaller ducts opening in the sides and roof (front surface) of the tube. The presence of the crest causes a transverse section of the urethra to look like an inverted U. The membranous portion has a diameter of one-fifth inch or less, which is also that of the meatus externus. The latter is the least dilatable part, and, consequently, an instrument which will pass the meatus will go through every other portion of the canal. Where the membranous urethra perforates the rigid triangular ligament it is not as readily dilated as elsewhere. The sjiongy urethra has a calibre between the other portions in size, and uniform except at its extremities. In front for about lialf an inch it is dilated and thus forms the fossa naviGidaris, " the boat-shaped pit," and behind for nearly an inch it widens in every direction, making the jjor.s bulbosa, " the bulbous part." The lowest point of the membranous urethra is about one inch benejrth the pubic arch. The upper part of this portion is in close relation to the rectum.