140 THE BONES. oblique line the flexor sublimis digitorum is attached. The area between the two oblique lines, externally, gives insertion to the supinator as far down as the rough impression for the pronator radii teres, situated about the middle and at the most prominent part of the extern a/ surface. Below this the external surface is covered by the extensor tendons. The ventral surface gives origin in its upper two-thirds to the flexor longus poUicis, and its lower fourth gives insertion to the pronator quadratus. The nutrient foramen, directed iqjward, is seen above the middle of this surface. The dorsal surface in the middle third gives origin to the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis above and to the extensor brevis pollicis below. Its lower third is covered by extensor tendons. The loioer extremity is broad, thick, and quadrilateral. The large inferior or carpal surface, concave and triangular, is divided by a ridge into an outer tri- angular surface, which articulates with the scaphoid, and an inner quadrilateral surface, which articulates with the semilunar. At the lower end of the inner surface is the narrow sigmoid caviti/, concave from before backward, which articu- lates with the head of the ulna. It is at right angles to the carpal surface, and to the smooth margin between them is attached tlie base of the triangular fibro- cartilage. A transverse ridge at the lower end of the ventral surface limits the attachment of the pronator quadratus, and to it and the narrow space below it the anterior ligament of the wrist is attached. The outer or dorso-external sur- face is prolonged downward as the stout, pyramidal, subcutaneous styloid process. It is lower than the styloid process of the ulna, and is an important landmark in diagnosticating fractures. To its tip is attached the external lateral ligament, and to its base the brachio-radialis. Two grooves, sejiarated by a ridge, are seen on this surface; the ventral one gives passage to the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and the extensor brevis pollicis ; the dorsal and inner one, sometimes subdivided by a low ridge, gives passage to the tendons of the extensores carpi radiales longus and brevis. The dorsal .surface extends lower than the ventral, and of its two grooves the external narrow one for the extensor longus pollicis is separated from the last-mentioned groove by a prominent sub- cutaneous tubercle. The inner groove transmits the extensor communis digi- torum and the extensor indicis tendons. The posterior annular ligament converts these grooves into canals by its attachment to the dividing ridges, the styloid pro- cess, and the inner margin. The radius is more deeply placed than the ulna. In supination the two bones are parallel; in pronation the radius crosses the ulna. Ossification proceeds from one primary centre in the shaft, a secondary centre in the head, which joins the shaft in the seventeenth year, and a secondary centre in the lower extremity, which appears first, but does not ankylose with the shaft until the twentieth year. THE BONES OF THE HAND. The skeleton of the hand is composed of the bones of the carpus, of the meta- carpus, and the phalanges, forming the skeleton of the wrist, the palm, and the digits respectively. THE CARPAL BONES. The eight carpal bones (Figs. 163-165) are arranged in two rows of four each. The carpus is transversely convex dorsally, and concave on the palmar surface, on which, at the inner and outer extremities of each row, there is a prominence, attaching the anterior annular ligament, which completes a canal for the flexor tendons and the median nerve. The upper surface of the upper row is convex, articulating with the concavity of the radius and the triangular fibro-cartilage. The convexity extends on to the dorsal more than on to the palmar surface. In