579 THE FIFTH OB TRIFACIAL NEB VE. branches : a nasal branch which supplies the mucous membrane of the anterior part of the inferior meatus and tloor of tlie nasal fossa ; and a dental branch to tlie incisor and canine teeth. These three dental nerves form loops (the superior dental plexus) in the minute canals provided for them in the maxilla, and from the loops filaments pass to the foramina at the tips of the fangs, and su])ply the dental pulp. {(/) Infraorbital Nerve.—From the time the maxillary nerve enters the infra- orbital canal it is called the in fraorbital nerve, and under that name it emerges on the face, where it lies deeply under cover of the levator labii superioris proprius. Here it divides into seven or more branches. Two of these, called infei-ior pal- pebral, turn upward to the skin and conjunctiva of the lower eyelids ; two or three pass inward between the filjres of the levator labii superioris alsecpie nasi to the side of the nose {lateral naml); and three or four superior labial branches run downward, piercing the fibres of the elevators of the upper lip and angle of the mouth to the skin of the lips and cheek, and sending large tw igs to the mucous membrane. These infraorbital nerves communicating with the facial form the infra- orbital plexus. The Sphenopalatine or Meckel's Ganglion (Figs. 640, 641).—The sphenopala- SENSORY HOOTS POSTERIOR PALATINE J Fig. 641.—Diagram of constitution of sphenopalatine ganglidii. (W. Keiller.) tine, or MeclceVs ganglion, is a small, reddish, triangular body, one-fifth of an inch in its long diameter, and flattened at the sides. It is situated in the ujiper part of the sphenomaxillary fossa, just under the superior maxillarv nerve, where it is embedded in fat and surrounded by the terminal branches of the internal max- illary artery. Only its posterior segment contains nerve-cells. Its sensory root is represented by two short, stout nerves, which attach its two superior angles to the superior maxillary nerve, forming its sphenopalatine branches. The greater part of these roots jxisses on without interruption in ganglion-cells into the palatine, nasal, and pharyngeal branches of the ganglion. Its motor and sj/mpathetic roots are contained in the Vidian nerve. The Vidian Nerve is a compound nerve, formed by the junction of the great superficial and great deep petrosal nerves. Tracing the Vidian nerve backward to its sources, it leaves the postero-superior angle of the ganglion, passes through the Vidian canal (accompanied by the artery of the same name) in which it gives off small twigs to tlie back of the nose and pharynx, and divides into two branches.