THE MOUTH. 701 Muscles of the Soft Palate. The muscles of the soft palate are the palatopharyngeus, palatoglossus, levator palati, tensor palati, and azygos uvulae. Palatopharyngeus (Fig. 747) (" the palate-pharynx nnuscle ").—Situation, at the side and back of the soft palate. Orifjin, in the velum, embracing the levator palati and azygos uvulae. Direction, downward, outward, and backward. Insertion, the upper and hind borders of the thyroid cartilage (mingling with the stylo- pharyngeus), and the lower part of the phaiynx, extending to the mid- dle line. Action: it lifts the larynx and the tongue, pulls down the velum, and approximates the poste- rior pillars, shutting off the oro- pharynx from the naso-pharynx. Nerves, probably from the pharyn- geal plexus through the eleventh cranial. Covered by mucous mem- brane, it forms the posterior pillar of the soft palate. This is joined by a fasciculus arising from the cartilage of the Eustachian tube, which has been described as a sepa- rate muscle, under the name of the salpingo-pharyngeus—the first part of the title referring to the trum- pet-shape of the end of the tube. Palatoglossus (Fig. 759) (" the palate-tongue muscle").—Si/noni/m, constrictor isthmi faucium, " the constrictor of the isthmus of the fauces.'' Situation, at the side and front of the soft palate. Origin, in the velum, being continuous with its opposite fellow. Direction, downward, outward, and forward. Insertion, at the side of the tongue. Action: it lifts the tongue, pulls down the velum, and approximates the anterior pillars, closing the pharynx from the mouth. Neriies, probably from the pharyngeal plexus through the eleventh cranial. Covered by mucous membrane, it forms the anterior pillar of the soft palate. Levator Palati (Fig. 747) ("the lifter of the palate").—Situation, in the upper part of the velum. Origin, the under surface of the petrous portion of the tem- poral bone, in front of the carotid canal. Direction, downward, inward, and forward. Insertion: it blends with its opposite fellow. Action, lifting the velum. Nerve, probably the spinal accessory, through the pharyngeal plexus. Tensor Palati ("the tightener of the palate").—Si/noni/m, circumflexus, "the muscle which bends around." Situation, in the velum. Origin, the root of the internal pterygoid plate, the spine of the sphenoid, the Eustachian tube. Direc- tion, downward to the hamular process, then inward. Insertion, the middle of the soft palate, and the under surface of the palate bone. Action, tightening the velum. Nerve, the third division of the fifth. Fig. 747.—Muscles f)f tlie soft palate, viewed from behind. The dorsal wall of the pharynx has been laid open. (Testut.)