THE MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. 331 passes upward and outward, and is inserted into tlie outer part of the inferior curved line of the occipital, and the surface in front of it. It extends the head, and rotates it to the same side. The suboccipital nerve supplies it and all the others of this group. Rectus Capitis Posterior Minor (Fig. 392), "the smaller straight hind muscle of the head," arises on the tubercle of the posterior arch of the atlas, runs upward and outward, and is inserted into the inner part of the inferior curved line of the occipital and the area in front of it. It extends the head. Oblictuus Capitis Inferior (Fig. 392), " the lower oblique muscle of the head," arises from the spine of the axis, goes upward and outward, and is inserted into the transverse process of the atlas. Its principal action is to rotate the atlas to the same side. Obliquus Capitis Superior (Fig. 392), " the upper oblique muscle of the head," arises from the transverse process of the atlas, passes upward, backward, and inward, and is inserted into the surface behind the inferior curved line of the occipital. It extends the head. THE MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. Rectus abdominis. Pyramidalis. Obliquus externus abdominis. Obliquus internus abdominis. Transversalis. Quadratus lumborum. Of these muscles the rectus and pyramidalis are in front, the quadratus is behind, and the contractile portion of the obliquus externus, obliquus internus, and transversalis are at the side, their fibrous part ex- tending forward and inward to the median line of the Rectus Abdominis (Fig. 394).—" The straight mus- cle of the abdomen." Sifnation, in the front wall of the belly. Origin, the pubic crest and symphysis, the tendon from the latter point coming from the opposite side and crossing its fellow. Direction, upward, curv- ing with convexity forward, corresponding with the contour of the belly. Insertion, the fifth, sixth, and seventh costal cartilages. Several tendinous intersec- tions {imcriptiones tendinece), usually not occupying the whole thickness of the muscle, cross it, generally one at the level of the ensiform appendix, one at that of the navel, one between these, and often one below. The sheath of the muscle is formed by the tendons of the lateral muscles. (See below.) Action, depression of the thorax, and compression of the abdominal vis- cera. Nerves, the lower intercostal and the ilio-hypo- gastric. The three lateral muscles constitute three nearly co-extensive layers, and their broad tendons of inser- tion (called " aponeuroses "), separate at first, become blended along a slightly curved, nearly vertical line (called linea semilunaris, "the half-moon line") just at the outer edge of the rectus. This combined tendon then splits vertically into laminas of equal thickness, which separate and embrace the rectus, one going in front, the other behind, and finally meet again at the median line, where they fuse with each other and with the corresponding structures of the opposite side, mak- ing a strong, perpendicular, fibrous band called linca alba, " the white Rectus abdominis and obliquus internus of ri^jht side. (Testut.) which runs from ensiform appendix above to symphysis pubis below, line," The