772 THE ORGANS OF RESPIRATION^. jjart of the muscle contributes to tlii.s result by drawing the cricoid backward. Nerve, the superior laryngeal. The posterior crico-arytenoid muscle (Figs. 838, 839) arises from nearly a lateral half of the hind surface of the cricoid, and converges to the outer angle of the base of the arytenoid, into which it is inserted. The two muscles draw their points of insertion backward and toward each other, and thus cause a diver- gence of the anterior processes and the vocal cords which are attached to them. Nerve, the inferior laryngeal. The lateral crico-arytenoid muscle (Fig. 838) arises from the side of the upper border of the cricoid, passes upward and backward, and is inserted into the exter- FiG. 838.—Muscles of larynx, right side. Tlie right ala of the thyroid cartilage has been cut through and turned down. (Testut.) nal angle f)f the arytenoid. The two cause approximation of the vocal cords by pulling the external arytenoid angles forward and downward, thus turning the anterior angles inward. Nerve, the inferior laryngeal. The thyro-arytenoid muscle (Fig. 838) consists of an internal ])ortion, which occupies the most of the triangular space included in the mucous fold enwrapping the true vocal cord ; and a broad, external portion, flattened laterally against the inner surface of the thyroid ala. It arises from the lower half of the hind sur- face of the thyroid near its angle, and from the adjacent surfoce of the crico- thyroid ligament. It converges backward, outward, and upward, and is inserted (internal part) into the vocal process and (external part) into the adjacent {por- tion of the outer surface and the outer angle of the arytenoid. The jmir draws the arytenoids forward, relaxing the vocal cords. Nerve, the inferior laryn- geal. The thyro-epiglottic muscle (Fig. 838) arises from the thyroid, just above the thyro-arytenoid, passes upward and backward, and is inserted into the side of the epiglottic cartilage. It depresses the epiglottis. Nerve, the inferior laryn- geal.