THE UTERUS. 831 secondary and parallel ridges pass upward and outward to the lateral borders. In these ridges are smooth muscular fibres derived from the internal muscular layer of the uterine wall. The l)ordei'8, situated laterally, are concave internally, thus widening the central portion of the cavity. The superi<jr opening (o.s uteri internum) is not a simple opening, but a short canal. The inferior opening (os uteri externum) is usually a transverse aperture, about one-twelfth of an inch in length. It is bounded by two lips, an anterior and a posterior. The latter is the longer, due to the higher attachment of the vagina behind, but the former is placed on a lower level and hence ap]iears on palpation to be the longer. Both are normally in contact with the posterior vaginal wall. The outline of the external os is much modified by child-bearing. Dimensions, Consistence, and Weight.—The uterus is about three inches in length, one and one-half to two inches in breadth at the upper and widest part of the body, and nearly an inch in thickness. In women who have borne children these diameters are all increased. The walls are about three-eighths of an inch in thickness. After death they are dense and resisting, but during life they are soft enough to retain sometimes the imprint of contiguous intestinal folds. The whole organ varies in weight from seven to twelve drachms. Direction.—The direction of the uterus is variable, and much influenced by the condition of the surrounding organs. Thus, a full bladder will push the uterus toward the sacrum, a full rectum will press it forward. When the bladder and rectum are empty, the fundus looks toward the umbilicus, and the uterus forms with the vagina a right or slightly obtuse angle. As a rule, the organ does not occupy the median line of the body, but is somewhat deflected, usually to the right. There is also present a certain amount of torsion, by means of which the left superior angle is carried a little farther forward than the right. Peritoneum (Fig. 896).—The peritoneum is reflected fr()m the bladder to the anterior surface of the uterus at a level which usually corresponds to the isthmus, bat may be slightly above or below. It then invests in the order named the anterior surface of the body, the fun- dus, the posterior surface of the body, and the posterior surface of the supra- vaginal segment of the cervix. It is also continued downward over the upper fourth of the posterior vaginal wall, and is then reflected to the front and sides of the rectum. At the lateral borders of the uterus the peritoneum from the anterior surface joins with that from the posterior to make up the broad or lateral liga- ments. Certain portions of the cervix have thus no peritoneal covering. They are the intra-vaginal and vaginal segments, and the anterior surface of the supra-vaginal portion. Thi (RECTAL PERJTONEUM ECTO-UTERINE POUCH (anterior and pos- < terior layers of broad ligament VESICAL IPERITONEUM VESICO-UTERINE POUCH Fig. 896.—The cervix uteri and upper end of the vagina, showing their relations to the peritoneum. Diagrammatic. (Testut.) latter rests against the bladder from which it is separated by areolar tissue, continuous with the subperitoneal fascia. Areolar tissue is also found covering the lower part of the posterior surface of the uterus, and extending outward between the layers of the broad ligaments. Peritoneal Pouches.—Tlie peritoneum, as it dips into the recess l)etween the bladder and the uterus, firms a shallow pouch, the utero-vesical, which is occupied, when the bladder is empty, by coils of small intestine. Behind the uterus it forms a second and deeper pouch, the recto-vesical, or cul-de-mc of I)ouglaf<. This is limited in front by the cervix and upper part of the vagina, behind by the rectum, and laterally by two folds of peritoneum, the fnJrh of Douglas, which extend from the cervix in front to the sides of the rectum behind. The folds