THE ORGANS OF THE SPECIAL SENSES. 666 Cavities Opening- Into the Nasal Fossae (Fig. 714). Various passages open into the nasal fossae. Under cover of tlie anterior end of the inferior turbinate is the inferior opening of the nasal dud. It is guarded by a single or sometimes double fold of mucous membrane. In the floor of the nose, at the site of the nasopalatine canal, is a funnel-shaped tube of mucous mem- brane of varying depth called Sfeuson's canal. It is the relic of the commuui- FiG. 714.—External wall of right nasal fossa, parts of the turbinates having been cut away to show the orifices of the sinuses which open into the meatuses. (Testut.) cation between the nasal and buccal cavities, found in the early foetus and per- manent in some animals. Just above this there is sometimes seen on the nasal septum a depression leading into a minute canal, which runs backward for a short distance. This is the rudimentary organ of Jacobson. Under cover of the ante- rior extremity of the middle turbinate is a deep depression ; the hiatm semilunaris {" half-moon gap") which leads up to the infundibulnm and thus into the frontal sinuses. In the bottom of the hiatus semilunaris is the opening of the anterior eth- moidal cells, the maxillari/ antrum communicating with the nose by the same aperture, or by a separate opening a little farther back. Above this is the orifice of the middle ethmoidal cells. Into the superior meatus the posterior ethmoidal cells open by one or two apertures, and the spjhenoidcd antrum communicates with the sp)heno-ethmoidal recess. The Pituitary Membrane (Schneiderian) is the mucous lining of the nose. It is inseparably united with the periosteum and perichondrium over which it lies. In the nostril it is continuous with the skin. It is prolonged into the maxillary, frontal, ethmoidal, and sphenoidal sinuses. By the nasal duct and lachrymal canaliculi it is continuous with the conjunctiva, and behind it joins the mucous membrane of the pharynx, and communicates by the Eustachian tube with the middle ear and mastoid cells. The thickness and vascularity of the membrane and the character of its epi- thelium vary in different situations. It is thickest and most vascular over the turbinates and septum, not so thick on the floor of the nose, and thin and pale in the sinuses. The character of the epithelium and the distribution of the nerves divide the nose into an upper, olfactory part, comprising the upper turbinate and