r The University Library Leeds The John F. Preston Collection I LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: ffloKI A 0 0106 01122 8 78 % ■Ml% ' ♦ u*g$1 Sffi Inp W' '.f-i'.si'S TsffilslBasSS gffffiil ■ ■'I-' ! :' _ i>_,. 's?K Rf5ny8«g«fflc #v iK V-Jv .- ’‘iiisi , hhh i Hf ; I' ' -THE EXPERIENCED Englifh Houfekeeper, FOR -THE USE AND EASE OF Ladies, Houfekeepers, Cooks, &c. Written purely from PRACTICE, dedicated to the Hon. Lady ELIZABETH WARBURTON, Whom the Author lately ferved as Houfekeeper: Confiding of feveral Hundred Original Receipts, moft of which never appeared in Print. PART I. Lemon Pickle, Browning tor all Sorts of Made Lillies, Soups, Pdh, Plain Meat, Game, Made Difhes both hot and cold. Pies Puddings, &c. PART II. All Kinds of Confec- tionary, particularly the Gold and Silver Web for covering of Sweet- meats, and a Defcrt of Spun Sugar, with Directions to let out a Table in the molt elegant Manner and in the modern Tarte, Floating lilands, Fifh-Ponds, Tranfparent Puddings, Trifles, Whips, &c. P^!\y V1- Pi.ckling, Potting, and Co.lanng,Wines,Vinegars, Catch- ups, Diltilling, with two molt va- IT, Cr ^eceJPts> one for refining lalt Liquors, the other for curing Acid Wines, and a corredt Lilt of ^ery, 111 Seafon for every Month in the Year. 1 LONDON: POINTED FOR a. MILLAR, W. LAW, AND R. CATER. MDcctxxxvn.UKVEBSI'i’ Utmi III TIMII IH ■A 2 Houfe- #*V* ♦ * * ~48M TO THE HONOURABLE LADY ELIZABETH WARBURTON. PERMIT me, honoured Madam, to lay before you a work, for which I am ambitious of obtaining your Lady- fhip’s approbation, as much as to oblige a great number of my friends, who are well acquainted with the practice I have had in the art of Cookery every fince I left your Ladyfhip’s family, and have often folicfted me to'publifh for the in- ftru&ion of their houfekeepers. As I flatter myfelf I had the happinefs of giving fatisfa&ion, during my fervice, Madam, in your family, it would be a ftill greater encouragement, fhould my endeavours for the fervice of the fex be honoured with the favourable opinion of fo good a judge of propriety and elegance as your Ladyfhip. I am not vain enough to propofe adding-any thing to the ExperiencedDEDICATION. Houfekeeper, but hope thefe receipts (written purely from practice) may be of . 6 to young perfons who are willing to improve themfelves. I rely on your Ladyfhip’s candour, and whatever Ladies favour this book with reading it, to excufe the plainnefs o tiie ltile ; as, in compliance with the defire of my friends, I have ftudied to exprefs myfelf fo as to be underftood by the meaneft capacity, and think myfelf appy in being allowed the honour of lubicribinof. madam, Your Ladyfliip’s Moft dutiful, % Moft obedient, And moft humble Servant, ELIZABETH RAFFALD.Preface to the Firfl Edition. WHEN I refled: upon the number of books already in print upon this fub- jed, and with what contempt they are read, I cannot but be apprehenfive that this may meet the fame fate with fome, who will cen- fure before they either fee it or try its value. Therefore the only favour I have to beg of the public is, not to cenfure my work before they have made trial of fome one receipt, which I am perfuaded, if carefully followed, will an- fwer their expedations; as I can faithfully af- luie my fiiends, that they are truely written from my ow n experience, and not borrowed from any other author, nor globed over with hard names, 01 words or high ftile, but written in my own plain language, and every fheet care- fully perilled as it came from the prels, bavin0" an opportunity of having it printed by a neigh- bour, whom I can rely on doing it the ftrideft juftice, without the leaft alteration. The whole work being now completed to my willies, I think it my duty to render my molt hncere and grateful thanks to my moll noble and worthy friends, who have already hewn their good opinion of my endeavours to ierve my lex, by railing me l'o large a fubfcrip- tion, winch far exceeds my expedations. I have not only been honoured by having above eight hundred of their names inlerted in my fubfcrip- tion,. nit alfo have had all their intereft in this laborious undertaking, which I have at laft ar- rived to the happinefs of completing, though at -•[ “ ] at the expence of my health, by being too ftudious, and giving too dole application. ° The only anxious wifh I have left is, that my worthy friends may find it ufeful in their families, and be an inftrudtor to the young and ignorant, as it has been my chiefeft care to write in as plain a ftile as poffible, fo as to be under- flood by the weakeft capacity. I am not afraid of being called extravagant, if my reader does not think that I have erred on the frugal hand. I have made it my ftudy topleafe both the eye and the palate, without ufing pernicious things for the fake of beauty. And though I have given fome of my difhes French names, as they are only known by thofe names, yet they will not be found very expen- five, nor add conipofitions but as plain as the nature of the difh will admit of. The receipts for the confectionary are fuch as I daily fee in my own (hop, which any Lady may examine at pleafure, as I ftill continue my befi endeavours to give fatisfadtion to all who are pleafed to favour me with their cuftom. It may be neceflary to inform my readers, that I have fpent fifteen years in great and worthy families, in the capacity of a Houfe- keeper, and had an opportunity of travelling with them; but finding the common lervants generally fo ignorant in drelfing meat, and a good cook fo hard to be met with, put me upon Ihidying the art of Cookery more than perhaps I other-t. ili ] i otherwife fhould have done ; always endeavour- ing to join oeconomy with neatnels and elegance, being fenfible what valuable qualifications thcie are in a houfekeeper or cook ; for of what ufe is their (kill, if they put their matter or lady to an immoderate expence in drefling a dinner for a final 1 company, when at the fame time a prudent manager would have dieffed twice the number of difhes for a much greatei company, at half the coft ? I have given no directions of cullis, as I have found, by experience, that lemon pickle and browning anfwers both for beauty and tafte (at a trifling expence) better than cullis, which is extravagant; for had I known the ufe and value of thofe two receipts when I firft took upon me the part and duty of a houfekeeper, it would have faved me a great deal of trouble in making gravy, and thofe I ferved a deal of expence. The number of receipts in this book are not fo numerous as in fome others, but they are what will be found ufeful and fufficient for any Gentleman’s family -neither have I meddled with phyttcal receipts, leaving them to the phyficians fuperior judgement, whole proper province they are. DefcriptionDeferiptioji of the PLATE f°r the coal (which I always found expense °f Ch”r' ^AA Hr*** ir°n pots’ flat at the bottomf withbars00218 ^ A A, F rents of the ftove. ’ caft ironT°P °f ^ llOVe’ Wh‘ch is covered aU over with CG Stove-pots in which the fire is made_ L>, 1 he form of the pot, with two vents caff in A fix inches deep at the ten and thrA j ln ™em> HH in the pot, and to let ’the fmoke^hrough'atTst^the . Carried from the fire through the back wall <-1, ' FFTBarS.88 « in thef— P'- thl°J The chimney bread, betwixt which and the back wall goes off into *•*« chi^ HH, Vents in the pot. &!>?&%«>? the fires, and to receive the afhes. I he fcale will give the dimenhons.J > Sat 7c c/‘ 8 Fr-eif .. Jillmiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiin^ri^r - nomiiiiiiiiiiiiii*i«jiE J 2 3 ^ iniininjmiiHimnuiiniiiiiiimi— 6 6 MIIIIIIMMIffl ^ TTHE EXPERIENCED Englifh Houfe-Keeper. CHAP. I. Obfervations on Soups. HEN you make any kind of foups, particularly portable, vermicelli, or brown gravy foup, or any other that has roots or herbs in, always obferve to lay your meat in the bottom of your pan, with a good lump of butter; cut the herbs and roots fmall, lay them over your meat, cover it clofe, fet it over a very flow Are, it will draw all the virtue out of the roots or herbs, and turn it to a good gravy, and give the foup a very different flavour from putting water in at the firft: when your gravy is almofl: dried up fill your pan with water, when it begins to boil take off the fat, and follow the directions of your receipt for what fort of foup you are mak- ing: when you make old peas foup take foft water, for green peas hard is the belt, it keeps the peas a better colour: when you mak£ any white foup don’t put in cream till you take it off the fire: always difh up your foups the laft B thing;2 THE EXPERIENCED tiling; if it be a gravy foup it will {kin over if you let it Hand; if it be a peas foup it often fet- tles, and the top looks thin. To make Portable Soup for Travellers. TAKE three large legs of veal and one of beef, the lean part of half a ham, cut them in pieces, put a quarter of a pound of butter at the bottom of a large cauldron, then lay in the meat and bones, with four ounces of anchovies, two ounces of mace, cut off the green leaves of five or fix heads of celery, wafh the heads quite clean, cut them fmall, put them in with three large carrots cut thin, cover the cauldron clofe, and fet it over a moderate fire; when you find the gravy begins to draw, keep taking it up till you have got it all out, then put water in to cover the meat, fet it on the fire again, and let it boil {lowly for four hours, then ftrain it through a hair fieve into a clean pan, and let it boil three parts away, then ftrain the gravy that you drew from the meat into the pan, let it boil gently (and keep fcumming the fat off very clean as it rifes) till it looks thick like glue; you muft take great care when it is near enough that it don’t burn; put in Chyan pepper to your tafte, then pour it on flat earthen difhes, a quarter of an inch thick, and let it ftand till the next day, and cut it out with round tins a little larger than a crown piece; lay the cakes on difhes, and fet them in the fun to dry; this foup will aiifwer beft to be made in frofty weather; when the cakes are dry, put them in a tin box, with writing paper be- twixtENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 3 twixt every cake, and keep them in a dry place; this is a very ufeful foup to be kept in gentle- men’s families, for by pouring a pint of boil- ing water on one cake, and a little fait, it will make a good bafon of broth. A little boiling water poured on it will make gravy for a turkey or fowl; the longer it is kept the better. N. B. Be careful to keep turning the cakes as they dry. To make a Transparent Soup. TAKE a leg of veal, and cut off the meat as thin as you can; when you have cut off all the meat clean from the bone, break the bone in fmall pieces, put the meat in a large jug, and the bones at top, with a bunch of lweet herbs, a quarter of an ounce of mace, half a pound of Jordan almonds, blanched, and beat line, pour on it four quarts of boiling water, let it hand all night by the lire covered dole, the next day put it into a well-tinned fauce-pan, and let it boil llowly till it is reduced to two quarts; be fure you take the fcum and fat olf as it rifes, all the time it is boiling; ftrain it into a punch- bowl, let it fettle for two hours, pour it into a clean fauce-pan clear from the fediments, if any at the bottom; have ready three ounces of rice boiled in water; if you like vermicelli better, boil two ounces; when enough, put it in, and ferve it up. To make a Hare Soup. CUT a large old hare in fmall pieces, and put it in a mug, with three blades of mace, a B 2 little4 the experienced little fait, two large onions, one red herring, fix morels, half a pint of red wine, three quarts of water, bake it in a quick oven three hours, then ftrain it into a tofting-pan, have ready boiled three ounces of French barley, or fago, in water; fcald the liver of the hare in boding water two minutes; rub it through a hair lieve with the back of a wooden fpoon, put it into the foup with the barley or fago, and a quarter of a pound of butter, fet it over the fire, keep ftirring it, but don’t let it boil; if you don’t like liver, put in crifped bread fteeped in red wine. This is a rich foup, and proper for a large entertainment; and where two foups are required, almond or onion foup for the top, and the hare foup for the bottom. To make a rich Vermicelli Soup. INTO a large toffmg-pan put four ounces of butter, cut a knuckle of veal and a fcrag of mutton into fmall pieces, about the fize of walnuts; flice in the meat of a fhank of ham, with three or four blades of mace, two or three carrots, two parfneps, two large onions, with a clove ftuck in at each end, cut in four or five heads of celery wafhed clean, a bunch of fweet herbs, eight or ten morels, and an an- chovy, cover the pan clofe up, and fet it over a flow fire, without any water, till the gravy is drawn out of the meat, then pour the gravy out into a pot or bafon, let the meat brown in the fame pan, and take care it don’t burn, then pour in four quarts of water, let it boil gently till it is wafted to three pints, then ftrain it, and putENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 5 put the other gravy to it, fet it on the fire, add to it two ounces of vermicelli, cut the mceft part of a head of celery, Chyan pepper and fait to your tafte, and let it boil for four minutes ; if not a good colour, put in a little browning, lay a final! French roll in the foup difli, pour m the foup upon it, and lay fome of the vermicelli over it. To make an Ox Cheek Soup. FIRST break the bones of an ox cheek, and wafh it in many waters, then lay it in warm water, throw in a little fait to letch out t e (lime, wafh it out very well, then take a large ftew-pan, put two ounces of butter at the bottom r of the pan, and lay the flefh fide of the cheek down, add to it half a pound of a {hank of ham cut in flices, and four heads of celery, pull oft the leaves, wafh the heads clean, and cut them in with three large onions, two carrots, and one parfnep fliced, a few beets cut lmall, and three blades of mace, fet it over a moderate fire a quarter of an hour; this draws the virtue from the roots, which gives a pleafant ftrength to the gravy. ' I have made a good gravy by this method with roots and butter, only adding a little browning, to give it a pretty colour: when the head has limmered a quarter of an hour, put to ic fix quarts of water, and let it flew till it is re- duced to two quarts: if you would have it eat like foup, ftrain and take out the meat and other ingredients, and put in the white part of a head of celery cut in fmall pieces., with a little browning,6 THE EXPERIENCED To biowning, to make it a fine colour, take two ounces of vermicelli, give it a fcald in the foup, and put the top of a French roll in the middle of a tureen, and ferve it up. If you would have it eat like flew, take up the face as whole as poflible, and have ready cut in fquare pieces a boiled turnep and carrot, a fiice of bread toafted, and cut in fmall dices, put in a little Chyan pepper, and ftrain the foup through a hair fieve upon the meat, carrot, turnep, and bread, to ferve it up. To make Almond Soup. TARE a neck of veal and the fcrag end of a neck of mutton, chop them in fmall pieces, put them in a large tofling-pan, cut in a turnep, \vith a blade or two of mace, and five quarts of water, fet it over the fire, and let it boil gently till it is reduced to two quarts, ftrain it through a hair fieve into a clear pot, then put in fix ounces of almonds blanched and beat fine, half a pint of thick cream, and Chyan pepper to your tafte, have ready three fmall French rolls, made for that purpofe, the fize of a fmall tea-, cup; if they are larger they will not look well, and drink up too much of the foup; blanch a few Jordan almonds, and cut them length-ways, ftick them round the edge of the rolls fiant- ways, then ftick them all over the top of the rolls, and put them in the tureen; when difhed up pour the foup upon the rolls: thefe rolls look like a hedge-hog: fome French cooks give this foup the.name of hedge-hog foup.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 7 To make Soup d-la-reine. TAKE a knuckle of veal and three or four pounds of lean beef, put to it fix quarts of water, with a little fait, when it bods fcum it well; then put in fix large onions, two large carrots, a head or two of celery, a parfnep, one leek, and a little thyme, boil them all together till the meat is boiled quite down, then {train it tnrough a hail* fieve, and let it band about half an hour, then fcum it well, and clear it off gently from the iet- tlings into a clear pan; boil half a pint of cream, and pour it on the crumbs of a halfpenny loaf, and let it foak well; take half a pound of al- monds, blanch and beat them as fine as poilible, putting in now and then a little cream, to pre- vent them from oiling; then take the yolks of fix hard eggs, and the roll that is foaked in the cream, and beat them all together quite fine; then make your broth hot, and pour it to your almonds, drain it through a fine hair fieve, rub- bing it with a fpoon till all the goodnefs is gone through into a dew-pan, and add more cream to make it white; fet it over the fire, keep birring it till it boils, fcum off the froth as it rifes, foak. the tops of two French rolls in melted but- ter in a dew-pan till they are crifp, but not brown, then take them out ot the butter, and lay them on a plate before the fire; and, a quarter of an hour before you fend it to the table, take a little of the foup hot, and put it to the roll in the bottom of the tureen, put your foup on the bre, keep dirring in till ready to boil, then pour it into your tureen, and ferveTo \ 8 THE EXPERIENCEb it up hot; be fure you take all the fat off the broth before you put it to the almonds, or it will fpoil it; and take care it does not curdle. To make Onion Soup. BOIL eight or ten large Spanifh onions in milk and water, change it three times, when they are quite foft rub them through a hair heve, cut an old cock in pieces, and boil it, for gravy, with one blade of mace, ftrain it, and pour it upon the pulp of the onions, boil it gently with the crumb of an old penny loaf, grated into half a pint of cream; add Chyan pepper and fait to your tafte: a few heads of afparagus or ftewed fpinage both make it eat well and look very pretty: grate a cruft of brown bread round the edge of the difh. To inake White Onion Soup. TAKE thirty large onions, boil them in five quarts of water, with a knuckle of veal, a blade or two of mace, and a little whole pepper; when your onions are quite foft take them up, and rub them through a hair fieve, and work half a pound of butter with flour in them; when the meat is boiled fo as to leave the bone, ftrain the liquor to the onions, and boil it gently for hajf an hour, ferve it up with a coffee-cup full of cream, and a little fait; be fure you ftir it when you put in the flour and butter, .for fear of its burning.9 ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. To make Brown Onion Soup. SKIN and cut round-ways in dices fix large Spanifh onions, fry them in butter till they are a nice brown, and very tender, then take them out, and lay them on a hair fieve to drain out the butter; when drained, put them in a pot, with five quarts of boiling water, boil them one hour and ftir them often, then add pepper and fait to * your tafte, rub the crumbs of a penny loaf through a cullendar, put it to the foup, ftir it well, to keep it from being in lumps, and boil it two hours more; ten minutes before you fend it up beat the yolks of two eggs, with two fpoon- fuls of vinegar, and a little of the foup, pour it in by degrees, and keep ftirring it all the time one way, put in a few cloves if you choofe it.— N. B. It is a fine foup, and will keep three or four days. To make Green Peas Soup. SHELL a peck of peas, and boil them in fpring water till they are foft, then work them through a hair fieve, take the water that your peas were boiled in, and put in a knuckle of veal, three flices of ham, and cut two carrots, a turnep, and a few beet leaves Hired fmall, add a little more water to the meat, fet it over the fire, and let it boil one hour and a half; then ftrain the gravy into a bowl, and mix it with the pulp, and put in a little juice of fpi- -tage, which muff be beat and fqueefed through a cloth, put in as much as will make it look a ^ prettyio THE EXPERIENCED pretty colour, then give it a gentle boil, which will take off the tafte of the lpinage, flice in the whiteft part of a head of celery, put in a lump of fugar the fize of a walnut, take a Dice of bread, and cut it in little fquare pieces, cut a little bacon the fame way, fry them a light brown in frelh butter, cut a large cabbage lettuce in flices, fry it after the other, put it in the tu- reen with the fryed bread and bacon; have ready boiled, as for eating, a pint of young peas, and put them in the loup, with a little chopped mint if you like it, and pour it into your tureen. To make a Common Peas Soup.- TO one quart of fplit peas put four quarts- of loft water, a little lean bacon, or roaft beei bones, wafli one head of celery, cut it and put it in with a turnep, boil it till reduced to two quarts, tfien work it through a cullendar, with a wooden fpoon, mix a little flour and water, and boil it well in the foup, and flice in another head of celery, Chyan pepper and fait to your taffe; cut a flice of bread in fmall dice, fry them, a light brown, and put them in your difh, then pour the foup upon it. To make a Peas Soup for Lent. PUT three pints of blue boiling peas into five quarts of foft cold water, three anchovies, three red herrings, and two large onions, flick in a clove at each end, a carrot and a parinep fliced in, with a bunch of fweet herbs; boil themENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. n them all together till the foup is thick, ftrain it through acullendar, then flice in the white part of a head of celery, a good lump of butter, a little pepper and fait, a flice of bread toafted and buttered well, and cut in little diamonds, put it into the difh, and pour the foup upon it; and a little dried mint, if you choofe it. Gravy Soup thickened with Yellow Peas. PUT a fhin of beef to fix quarts of water, with a pint of peas and fix onions, fet them over the fire, and let them boil gently till all the juice be out of the meat, then ftrain it through a fieve, add to the ftrained liquor one quart of ftrong gravy to make it brown, put in pepper and lalt to your tafte, then put in a little celery and beet leaves, and boil it till they are tender. To make a White Peas Soup. TO four or five pounds of lean beef and fix quarts of water put in a little fait, when it boils fcum it, and put in two carrots, three whole onions, a little thyme, and two heads of celery, with three quarts of old green peas, boil them till the meat is quite tender, then ftrain it through a hair fieve, and rub the pulp of the peas through the fieve, fplit the blanched part of three Cofs lettuces into four quarters, and cut them about one inch long, with a little mint cut fmall; then put half a pound of butter in a ftew-pan that will hold your foup, and put the lettuce and mint into the butter, with a leek fliced very thin, and a pint of green peas; flew them C 2 a quarterTHE EXPERIENCED 12 a quarter of an hour, and keep fhaking them often about, then put in a little of the foup, and flew them a quarter of an hour longer; then put in your foup, and as much thick cream as will make it white, keep ftirring it till it boils, fry a French roll in butter a little crifp, put it in the bottom of the tureen, and pour your foup over it. To make Green Peas Soup •without Meat. IN fhelling your peas feparate the old ones from the young, and boil the old ones foft enough to ftrain through a cullendar, then put the liquoi,' and what you ftrained through to the young peas, which mufl be whole; add fome whole pepper, mint, a little onion fhred fmall, put them in a large fauce-pan, with near a pound of butter; as they boil up fhake in fome flour, then put in a French roll, fryed in butter, to the foup; you mufl feafon it to your tafte with fait and herbs; when you have done fo, add the young peas to it, which mufl be half boiled firft; you may leave out the flour if you don’t like it, and inftead of it put in a little fpinage and cabbage lettuce, cut fmall, which mufl; be flrfl; fryed in butter, and well mixed with the broth. To make an excellent White Soup. TO fix quarts of water put in a knuckle of veal, a large fowl, and a pound of lean bacon, and half a pound of rice, with two anchovies, a few pepper-corns, two or three onions, a bundle of fweet herbs, three or four heads of celeryENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 13 celery in flices, flew all together till your foup is as ftrong as you choofe it, then ftrain it through a hair fieve into a clean earthen pot, let it ftand all night, then take off the fcum, and pour it clear off into a toffmg-pan, put in half a pound of Jordan almonds beat fine, boil it a little, and run it through a lawn fieve, then put in a pint of cream and the yolk of an egg. Make it hot and fend it to the table, To make White Soup a fecond Way, BOIL a knuckle of veal and a fowl, with a little mace, two onions, a little pepper and fait, to a ftrong jelly, then ftrain it, and fcum off all the fat; have ready the yolks of fix eggs well beat, put them in, and keep ftirring it or it will curdle, put it in your difh with boiled chickens and toafted bread cut in pieces ; if you do not like the eggs, you may put in a large handful of vermicelli half an hour before you take it off the fire. To make Craw-Fish Soup. BOIL half a hundred of frefh craw-fifh, pick out all the meat, which you muft fave, take a frefh lobfter and pick out all the meat, which you muft likewife fave, pound the {hells of the craw-fifh and lobfter fine in a marble mortar, and boil them in four quarts of water, with four pounds of mutton, a pint of green fplit peas nicely picked and wafhed, a large turnep, car- rot, onion, mace, cloves, anchovy, a little thyme, pepper, and fait. Stew them on a flow fir?i4 THE EXPERIENCED fire till all the goodflefs is out of the mutton and fhells, then ftrain it through a fieve, and put in the tails of your craw-fifh and the lob- fter meat, but in very fmall pieces, with the red coral of the lobfter, if it has any; boil it half an hour, and juft before you ferve it up add a little butter melted thick and fmooth, ftir it round feveral times when you put it in, fend it up very hot, but don’t put too much fpice in it. N. B. Pick out all the bags and the wooly part of your craw-fifh before you pound them. To make Partridge Soup. TAKE off the fkins of two old partridges, cut them into fmall pieces, with three flices of ham, two cr three onions fiiced, and fome ce- lery; fry them in butter till they are as brown as they can be made without burning, then put them into three quarts of .water, with a few pepper-corns, boil it flowly till a little more than a pint is confumed, then ftrain it, put in fome ftewed celery and fryed bread. CHAP. II. Obfervatio?is on Dressing Fish. WHEN you fry any kind of fifh, wafh them clean, dry them well with a cloth, and duft them with flour, or rub them with egg and bread crumbs; be Pure your dripping, hog’s-ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 15 hog-Vlard, or beef fuet, is boiling before you put in your fifh, they will fry hard and clear, butter is apt to burn them black, and make them foft; when you have fryed your fifh, always lay them in a dilh or hair fieve to drain, before you difh them up; boiled fifh fhould always be wafhed, and rubbed carefully with a little vinegar, be- fore they are put into the water; boil all kinds of fifh very (lowly, and when they will leave the bone they are enough; when you take them up, fet your fifh-plate over a pan of hot water to drain, and cover it with a cloth or clofe cover, to prevent it from turning their colour; fet your fifh-plate in the infide of your difh, and fend it up, and when you fry parfley be fure you pick it nicely, wafh it well, then dip it in cold water, and throw it into a pan of boiling fat, take it out immediately, it will be very crifp, and a fine green. To drefs a Turtle of a hundred Weight. CUT off the head, take care of the blood, and take off all the fins, lay them in fait and water, cut off the bottom fhell, then cut off the meat that grows to it (which is the callipee or fowl) take out the hearts, livers, and lights, and put them by themfelves, take out the bones and the flefh out of the back fhell (which is the callipafh) cut the flefhy part into pieces, about two inches fquare, but leave the fat part, which looks green (it is called the monfieur) rub it firft with fait, and. wafh it in feveral waters to make it come clean, then put in the pieces that you took out, with three bottles of Madeira wine16 The experienced wine and four quarts of ftrong veal gravy, a lemon cut in dices, a bundle of fweet herbs, a tea-fpoonful of Chyan, fix anchovies wafhed and picked clean, a quarter of a pound of beaten mace, a tea-lpoonful of mufhroom powder, and half a pin: of eflence of ham if you have it, lay over it a coarfe pafte, fet it in the oven for three hours ; when it comes out take off the lid and fcum off the fat, and brown it with a falamander.—This is the bottom dijh. Then blanch the fins, cut them off at the firft joint, fry the firft pinions a fine brown, and put them into a toffing-pan with two quarts of ftrong brown gravy, a glafs of red wine, and the blood of the turtle, a large fpoonful of le- mon pickle, the fame of browning, two fpoon- fuls of mufhroom catchup, Chyan and fait, an onion ftuck with cloves, and a bunch of fweet herbs ; a little before it is enough put in an ounce of morels, the fame of trufles, flew them gently over a flow fire for two hours ; when they are tender put them into another toffing-pan, thicken your gravy with flour and butter, and ftrain it upon them, give them a boil, and ferve them up. This is a corner dijh. Then take the thick or large part of the fins, blanch them in warm water, and put them in a toffing-pan, with three quarts of ftrong veal gravy, a pint of Madeira wine, half a tea- fpoonful of Chyan, a little fait, half a lemon, a little beaten mace, a tea-fpoonful of mufh- room powder, and a bunch of fweet herbs; let them ftew till quite tender, they will take two hoursENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 17 hours at leaft, then take them up into another tofling-pan, ftrain your gravy, and make it pretty thick with flour and butter, then put in a few boiled forcemeat balls, which muft be made of the veally part of your turtle, left out for that purpofe ; one pint of frefh mufhrooms, if you cannot get them pickled ones will do, and eight artichoke bottoms boiled tender, and cut in quarters; fhake them over the fire five or fix minutes, then put in half a pint of thick cream, with the yolks of fix eggs beaten ex- ceedingly well, fhake it over the fire again till it looks thick and white, but do not let it boil; difh up your fins with the balls, mufhrooms, and artichoke-bottoms over and round them. 'This is the top dijlo. Then take the chicken part, and cut it like Scotch-coWops, fry them a light brown, then put in a quart of veal gravy, flew them gently a little more than half an hour, and put to it the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, a few mo- rels, a fcore of oyfters ; thicken your gravy ; it muft be neither white nor brown, but a pretty gravy colour; fry fome oyfters patties, and lay round it. This is a corner dijh, to aripwer the fmall fins. Then take the guts, (which is reckoned the beft part of the turtle) rip them open, fcrape and wafh them exceeding well, rub them well with fait, wafh them through many waters, and cut them in pieces two inches long; then fcald the maw or paunch, take off the {kin, fcrape it well, cut it into pieces about half an inch broad, and two inches long; put fome of U the18 THE EXPERIENCED tlic fifhy part of your turtle in it, fet it over a flow charcoal lire, with two quarts of veal gravy, a pint of Madeira wine, a little-mufh- room catchup, a few fhalots, a little Chyan, half a lemon, and flew them gently four hours, till your gravy is almoft confumed, then thicken it with flour, mixed with a little veal gravy, put in half an ounce of morels, a few force- meat balls, made as for the fins; difh it up, and brown it with a falamander, or in the oven.— This is a corner di/Jo. Then take the head, {kin it and cut it in two pieces, put it into a ftew-pot, with all the bones, hearts, and lights, to a gallon of water, or veal broth, three or four blades of mace, one fhalot, a flice of beef beaten to pieces, and a bunch of fweet herbs; fet them in a very hot oven, and let it ftand an hour at leaft; when it comes out, {train it into a tureen for the middle of the table. Then take the hearts and lights, chop them very fine, put them into a ftew-pan, with a pint of good gravy, thicken it, and ferve it up; lay the head in the middle, fry the liver, lay it round the head upon the lights, garnifh with whole flices of lemon. This is the fourth corner dijh. N. B. The firffc courfe fhould be of turtle only, when it is drefl'ed in this manner: but when it is with other victuals, it fhould be in three different clifhes; but this way I have often drefl'ed them, and have given great fatisfadfion. Obferve to kill your turtle the night before you want it, or very early next morning, that you may have all your difhesENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 19 diflies going on at a time. Gravy for a turtle a hundred weight will take two legs of veal and two fhanks of beef. To drefs a Turtle about thirty pounds weight. WHEN you kill the turtle, which muff be done the night before, cut off the head, and let it bleed two or three hours; then cut off the fins and the callipee from the callipafh; take care you do not burft the gall, throw all the inwards into cold water; the guts and tripe keep by themfelves, and flit them open with a penknife, and wafh them very clean in fcalding water, and fcrape off all the inward {kin; as you do them' throw them into cold water, wafh them out of that, and put them into frefh water, and let them lie all night, Raiding the fins and edges of the callipafh and callipee; cut the meat off the fhouklers, and hack the bones, and fet them over the fire, with the fins, in about a quart of water; put in a little mace, nutmeg, Chyan, and fait; let it flew about three hours, then firain it, and put the fins by for ufe; the next morning take fome of the meat you cut off the fhoulders, and chop it fmall, as fof faufages, with about a pound of beef or veal fuet, fea- foned with mace, nutmeg, fweet-marjoram, parfley, Chyan, and fait to your tafte, and three or four glaffes of Madeira wine, fo fluff it un- der the two fiefliy parts of the meat, and if you have any left, lay it over, to prevent the meat from burning; then cut the remainder of the meat and the fins in pieces the fize of an egg, feafon20 THE EXPERIENCED feafon it pretty high with Chyan, fait, and a little nu.meg, and put it jnto the callipalh; take care that it be fewed or fecured up at the end to keep in the gravy; then boil up the gravy, and add more wine if required, and thicken it a little with butter and flour, put fome of it to the turtle, and fet it in the oven, with a well- butteied paper over it, to keep it from burning, and when it is about half baked fqueefe in the juice of one or two lemons, and ftir it up. Cal- lipafli or back will take half an hour more bake- ing than the callipee, which two hours will do; the guts muft be cut in pieces two or three inches long, the tripe in lefs, and put into a mug of clear water, and let in the oven with the cal- lipafh, and when it is enough, and drained from the water, it is to be mixed with the other parts, and fet up very hot. To drefs a Cod’s Head and Shoulders. TAKE out the gills and the blood clean from the bone, wafh the head very clean, rub ovei it a little fait, and a glafs of allegar, then lay it on your fifh-plate: when your water boils, throw in a good handful of fait, with a glals of allegar, then put in your fifh, and let it boil gently half an hour, if it is a large one three-quarters; take it up very carefully, and flrip the {kin nicely off, fet it before a brifk fire, dredge it all over with flour, and bafte it well with butter; when the froth begins to rife, throw over it fome very fine white bread crumbs; you muft keep balling it all the time,ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 21 time, to make it froth well; when it is a fine white brown, dilh it up, and garnifh it with a lemon cut in llices, fcraped horfe-radifh, bar- berries, a few finall fifh fryed and laid round it, or frelh oyfters; cut the roe and liver in dices, and lay over it a little of the lobfter out of the fauce in lumps, and then ferve it. To make Sauce for the Cod’s Head. TAKE a lobfter, if it be a-live ftick a fkewer in the vent of the tail to keep the water out, and throw a handful of fait in the water; when it boils put in the lobfter, and boil it half an hour; if it has fpawn on pick them off, and pound them exceeding fine in a marble mortar, and put them into half a pound of good melted butter, then take the meat out of your lobfter, pull it in bits, and put it in your butter, with a meat-fpoonful of lemon pickle, and the fame of walnut catchup, a dice of an end of lemon, one or two dices of horfe- radifh, as much beaten mace as will lie on a fix- pence, fait and Chyan to your tafte, boil them v one minute, then take out the horfe-radifh and lemon, and ferve it up in your fauce-boat. N. B. If you can get no lobfter, you may make fhrimp, cockle, or mufcle. fauce the fartie way ; if there can be no kind of lhell-fifh got, you then may add two anchovies cut fmall, a fpoon- ful of walnut liquor, a large onion ftuck with cloves, ftrain it, and put it in the fauce-boat. Second11 THE EXPERIENCED To Second way to drefs a Cod’s Head. 1 AKE out the gills and blood clean from the back-bone, wafh it well, and put it on your plate ; when your water boils put on two hand- fuls of fait and half a pint of allegar, it will make your fifh firmer, then put in the cod’s head; if it is of a middle fize it will take ah hour’s boiling ; then take it up, and ftrip off the {kin gently, dredge it well with flour, and lay lumps of butter on it; if it fuits you better you may fend it to the oven, and if it is not brown all over do it with a falamander : make your gravy fauce to it and ferve it up. To drefs young Codlings like Salt Fish. TAKE young codlings, gut and dry them well with a cloth, fill their eyes full of fait, throw a little on the back-bone, and let them lie all night, then hang them up by the tail a day or two : as you ,have occaflon for them, boil them in fpring water, and drain them well, difh them up, and pour egg fauce on them, and fend them to the table. To drefs a Salt Cod. STEEP your fait fifh in water all night, with a glafs of vinegar ; it will fetch out the fait, and make it eat like frefh fifh ; the next day boil it; when it is enough pull it in flakes into your difh, then pour egg fauce over it, or parfnips boiled and beat fine with butter and cream; fend it to the table on a water-plate, for it will fbon grow cold.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 23 To make Egg Sauce for a Salt Cod. BOIL your eggs hard, firfl: half chop the * ■whites, then put in the yolks, and chop them both together, but not very fmall, put them into half a pound of good melted butter, and let it boil up, then put it on the fifh. To drefs Cod Sounds. STEEP your founds as you do the fait cod, and boil them in a large quantity of milk and water, when they are very tender and white take them up and drain the water out, then pour the egg fauce boiling hot over, them and ferve them up. To drefs Cod Sounds like little Turkeys. BOIL your founds as for eating, but not too much, take them up and let them hand till they are quite cold, then take a forcemeat of chop- ped oyfters, crumbs of bread, a lump of but- ter, nutmeg, pepper, fait, and the yolks of two eggs, fill your founds with it, and llcewer them up in the fhape of a turkey, then lard them down each fide as you would do a turkey’s breaft, dull them well with flour, and put them in a tin oven to roafl: before the fire, and bafte them well with butter: when they are enough pour on them oyfter fauce ; three are fufficient for a fide difh; garnifh with barberries; it is a pretty fide difh for a large table for a dinner in Lent. To boil Salmon Crimp. SCALE your falmon, take out the blood, wafh it well, and lay it on a fifh-plate, put your water24 the experienced water in a fifh-pan with a little fait: when it boils put in your fifh for half a minute, then take it out for a minute or two ; when you have done it four times, boil it untill it be enough ; when you take it out of the fifh-pan, let it over the water to dram; cover it well with a clean cloth dipped in hot water ; fry fome fmall fifh, or a few llices of falmon, and lay round it—gar- niih with fcraped horle-radifh and fennel. To make Rolled Salmon. TAKE a fide of falmon when fplit, and the bone taken out and fcaled, ftrew over the infide pepper, fait, nutmeg, and mace, a few chopped oyfters, parfley, and crumbs of bread, roll it up tight, put it into a deep pot, and bake it in a quick oven, make the common fifh fauce and pour over it.—Garnifh with fennel, lemon, and horfe-radifli. To make Sauce for a Salmon. BOIL a bunch of fennel and parfley, chop them fmall, and put it into fome good melted butter, and fend it to the table in a fauce-boat; another with gravy fauce. To make the gravy fauce, put a little brown gravy into a fauce-pan, with one anchovy, a tea- fpoonful of lemon pickle, a meat-fpoonful of liquor from your walnut pickle, one or two fpoonfuls of the water that the fifh was boiled in, it gives it a pleafant flavour, a flick of horfe- radifh, a little browning and fait ; boil them three or four minutes, thicken it With flour and a good lump of butter, and drain it through a vENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 25 hair fieve. N. B. This is a good fauce for moft kinds of boiled fifh. To boll a Turbot. WASH your turbot clean (if you let it lie in the water it will make it fofr) and rub it over with allegar, it will make it firmer, then lay it on your fifh-plate, with the white fide up, lay a cloth over it, and pin it tight under your plate, which will keep it from breaking, boil it gently in hard water, with a good deal of fait and Vinegar, and fcuiii it well, or it will difcolour the fkin; when it is enough take it up and drain it, take the cloth carefully off, and flip it on your difh, lay over it fryed oyfters, or oyfter patties; fend in lobfter or gravy fauce in fauce-boats. Garnifh it with crifp parfley and pickles. N. B. Do not put in your fifh till your water boils. To boil a Pike with a pudding hi the belly. TAKE out the gills and guts, wafh it well, then make a good forcemeat of oyfters chopped fine, the crumbs of half a penny loaf, a few fweet herbs, and a little lemon peel fhred fine, nut- , meg, pepper, and fait to your tafte, a good lump of butter, the yolks of two eggs, mix them well together, and put them in the belly of your fifh, few it up, fkewer it round, put hard water in your fifh-pan, add to it a tea-cupful of vinegar, and a little fait: when it boils put in the fifh; if it be a middle-fize, it will take half an hour’s boiling : garnifh it with walnuts and pickled barberries; ferve it up with oyfter fauce in a <E boat,2 6 THE "EXPERIENCED boat, and pour a little fauce on the pike. You may dreis a roafted pike the fame way. To Jiew Carp white. WHEN the carp are fcaled, gutted, and walked, put them into a ftew-pan, with two quarts of water, half a pint of white wine, a little mace, whole pepper, and fait, two onions, a bunch of fweet herbs, a flick of horfe-radifh, cover the pan clofe, let it hand an hour and a half over a flow flove, then put a gill of white wine into a fauce-pan, with two anchovies chop- ped, an onion, a little lemon peel, a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in flour, a tittle thick cream, and a large tea-cupful of the liquor the carp was ftewed in; boil them a few minutes, drain your carp, add to the fauce the yolks of two eggs mixed with a little cream; when it boils up fqueefe in the juice of half a lemon j difh up your carp, and pour your fauce hot upon it. To drefs Carp the bejl way, and the Sauce. KILL your carp, and fave all the blood, fcale and clean them very well, have ready fome nice, rich gravy, made of beef and mutton, feafoned with pepper, fait, mace, and onion; ftrain it off before you flew your fifh in it, boil your carp firft before you flew it in the gravy, be careful you do not boil it too much before you put in the carp; then let it flew on a flow fire about a quarter of an hour, thicken the iauce with a good lump of butter rolled in flour : garnifn your difh. with fryed oyfters, fryed toaft cut three-ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 27 E 2 To three-corner ways, pieces of lemon, fcraped horfe-radifh, and the roe of the carp cut in pieces, fome fryed and others boiled, fqueefe the juice of a lemon into the fauce juft before you fend it up; take care to difh it up hand- fomely and very hot. Another Carp Sauce. TAKE the liver of the carp clean from the guts, and three anchovies, with a little parfley, thyme, and one onion, chop all thefe fmall to- gether; then take half a pint of Rhenifh wine, four fpoonfuls of elder vinegar, with the blood of the carp, put all thefe together to ftew gently, and put it to the carp, which mull hrft be boiled in water, a little fait, and a pint of wine ; take care not to do it too much after the carp is put in the fauce : garnifh with fryed oyfters, fryed toaft, fcraped horfe-radifh, and pieces of lemon, with the roe cut in pieces and fryed : if you don’t like elder vinegar, any other fort will do. To make White Fish Sauce. WASH two anchovies, put them into a fauce- pan, with one glafs of white wine, and two of water, half a nutmeg grated, and a little lemon peel; when it has boiled five or fix minutes, ftrain it through a fieve, add to it a fpoonful of white wine vinegar, thicken it a little, then put in near a pound of butter rolled in flour, boil it well, and pour it hot upon your fifh.28 THE EXPERIENCED To make a very nice Sauce for mof forts o/TisH'. TAKE a little gravy made of either veal or mutton, put to it a little of the water that drains from your filh ; when it is boiled enough, put it in a fauce-pan, and put in a whole onion, one anchovy, a fpoonful of catchup, and a glafs of white wine, thicken it with a good lump of but- ter rolled in flour, and a fpoonful of cr^am ; if you have oyfters, cockles, or fhrimps, put them in after you take it oft' the fire, (but it is very good without); you may ufe red wine inftead of white by leaving out the cream. To make Lobster Sauce. BOIL half a pint of water with a little mace and whole pepper, long enough to take out the ftrong tafte of the fpice, then ftrain it off, melt three quarters of a pound of butter frnooth in the water, cut your lobfter in very fmall pieces, flew it all together tenderly with anchovy, and fend it up hot. To make Lobster Sauce another way. BRUISE the body of a lobfter into thick melted butter, and cut the flefh into it in fmall pieces, flew all together and give it a boil; fea- fon with a little pepper, fait, and a very fmall quantity of mace.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 29 To Jlcw Carp or Tench. GUT and fcale your fifh, wafh and dry them well with a clean cloth, dredge them well with flour, fry them in dripping, or fweet rendered fuet, until they are a light brown, and then put them in a ftew-pan, with a quart of water,^ and one quart of red wine, a meat-fpoonful of lemon pickle, another of browning, the fame of walnut or mum catchup, a little mufhroom powder, and Chyan to yoUr tafte, a large onion ftuck with cloves, and a flick of horfe-radifh; cover your pan clofe to keep in the fleam, let them flew gently over a ftove fire, till your gravy is reduced to juft enough to cover your fifh in the difh; then take the fifti out, and put them on the difh you intend for table, fet the gravy ■on the fire, and thicken it with flour and a large lump of butter, boil it a little, and ftrain it over your fifh: garnifh them with pickled mufti- rooms and lcraped horfe-radifh, put a bunch of pickled barberries, or a fprig of myrtle in their mouths, and fend them to the table. It is a top difh for a grand entertainment. To drefs a Sturgeon. TAKE what fize of a piece of fturgeon you think proper, and wafh it clean, lay it all night in fait and water, the next morning take it out, rub it well with allegar, and let it lie in it for two hours, then have ready a fifh-kettle full of boil- ing water, with one ounce of bay fait, two large onions, and a few fprigs of fweet-marjoram; boil your fturgeon till the bones will leave the fifh,3o THE EXPERIENCED iifh, then take it up, take the fkin off, and flour it well, let it before the fire, bafte it with frelh outtei, and let it ftand till it be a fine brown, tnen difh it up, and pour into the difh the fame fauce as for the white carp; garnifh with crifp parfley and red pickles. This is a proper difh for the top or middle. To roajl large Eels or Lampreys with a pud.- ding in the belly. SKIN your eels or lampreys, cut off the head, take the guts out, and fcrape the blood clean from the bone, then make a good forcemeat of oyfters or fhrimps chopped fmall, the crumbs of half a penny loaf, a little nutmeg or lemon peel Hired fine, pepper, fait, and the yolks of two eggs; PLlt them in the belly of your fifh, few it up, turn it round on your difh, put over it flour and butter, pour a little water on your difh, and bake it in a moderate oven; when it comes out take the gravy from under it, and fcum off the fat, then ftrain it through a hair fieve; add to it a tea-fpoonful of lemon pickle, two of brown- ing, a meat-fpoonful of walnut catchup, a glafs of white wine, one anchovy, and a flice of lemon, let it boil ten minutes, thicken it with butter and flour, fend it up in a fauce-boat, difh your fifh: garnifh it with lemon and crifp parfley. This is a pretty difh for either corner or fide for a dinner.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 3-. To Jlew Lampreys. SKIN and gut your lampreys, feafon them well with pepper, fait, cloves, nutmeg, and mace, not pounded too fine, and a little lemon peei fared fine; then cut fome thin flices of butter into the bottom of your'fauce-pan, put in the fifh, with half a pint of nice gravy, half the quan- tity of white wine and cyder, the lame of claret, with a fmall bundle of thyme, winter-favory, pot-marjoram, and an onion fliced; ftew them over a flow fire, and keep turning the lampreys till they are quite tender; when they are tender take them out, and put in one anchovy, and thicken the fauce with the yolk of an egg, or a little butter rolled in flour, and pour it over the fifh, and ferve them up.—N. B. Roll them round a fkewer before you put them into the pan. To Jlew Flounders, Plaice, or Soles. HALF fry your fifh in three ounces of but- ter a fine brown, then take up your fifh, and put to your butter a quart of water, and boil it flowly a quarter of an hour with two anchovies, and an onion fliced, then put in your fifh again, with a herring, and ftew them gently twenty minutes, then take out your fifh, and thicken the fauce with butter and flour, and give it a boil, then ftrain it through a hair fieve, over the fifh, and fend them up hot.—N. B. If you choofe cockle or oyfter-liquor, put it in juft be- fore you thicken the fauce, or you may fend oyfters, cockles, or fhrimps in a fauce-boat to table.3* THE experienced A good -way to flew Fish. MIX half a tumbler of wine with as milch water as will cover the fifh in the ftew-pan, and put in a little pepper and fait, three or four onions, a cruft of bread toafted very brown, one anchovy, a good lump of butter, and fet them over a gentle fire; fhake the ftew-pan now and then, that it may not burn; juft before vou ferve it up, pour your gravy into a fauce-pan, and thicken it with a little butter rolled in flour, a little catchup and walnut pickle beat well to- gether till fmooth, then pour it on your fifh, and fet it over the fire to heat, and ferve it up hot. To boil MaCKREL; GUT your mackrel and dry them carefully with a clean cloth, then rub them flightly over with a little vinegar, and lay them ftrait on your fifh-plate (for turning them round often breaks them), put a little fait in the water when it boils; put them into your fifh-pan, and boil them gently fifteen minutes, then take them up and drain them well, and put the water that runs from them into a fauce-pan, with two tea-fpoon- fulls of lemon pickle, one meat-fpoonful of wal- nut catchup, the fame of browning, a blade or two of mace, one anchovy, a flice of lemon; boil them all together a quarter of an hour, then ftrain it through a hair fieve, and thicken it with flour and butter, fend it in a fauce-boat, and parfley fauce in another; difh up your fifh with ^ the tails in the middle; garnifh it with fcraped horfe-radifh and barberries. 2V)ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 33 To boil Herrings. SCALE, gut, and wafh you herrings, dry them clean, and rub them over with a little vinegar and fait, fkewer them with their tails in their mouths, lay them on your filh-plate; when your water boils put them in, they will take ten or twelve minutes boiling; when you take them up, drain them over the water, then turn the heads into the middle of your difh, lay round them fcraped horfe-radifh, parlley and butter for fauce* • To fry Herrings. *5 SCALE, wafh, and dry your herrings Well ; lay them feparately on a board, and fet them to the fire two or three minutes before you want them, it will keep the hill from flicking to the pan, dull them with flour; when your dripping or butter is boiled hot put in your filh, a few at a time, fry them over a brifk fire; when you have fryed them all, fet the tails up one againft another in the middle of the difb, then fry a large handful of parfley crifp, take it out before it lofes its colour, lay it round them, and parfley fauce in a boat; or, if you like onions better, fry them, lay fome round your difh, and make onion fauce for them; or you may cut off the heads after they are fryed, chop them, and put them into a fauce-pan, with ale, pepper, fait, and an anchovy, thicken it with flour and butter, flrain it; then put it in a fauce-boat. _ . _ V F To34 THE EXPERIENCED To To bake Herrings. WEIEN you have cleaned your herrings as above, lay them on a board, take a little black and Jamaica pepper, a few cloves, and a good deal of fait, mix them together, then rub it all ovei the fifh, lay them ftraight on a pot, cover them with allegar, tie a ftrong paper over the pot, and bake them in a moderate oven; if your allegar De good, they will keep two or three tnontns; you may eat them either hot or cold. To bake Sprats. RUB your fprats with fait and pepper, and to every two pints of vinegar put one pint of red wine, diffolve a penny-worth of cochineal, lay your fprats in a deep earthen difh, pour in as much red wine, vinegar, and cochineal as will cover them, tie a paper over them, fet them in an oven all night.——They will eat well, and keep for fome time. To boil Scate or Ray. CLEAN your fcate or ray very well, and cut it in long narrow pieces, then put it in boil- ing water with a little fait in it; when it has boiled a quarter of an hour take it out, flip the Ikia off, then put it into your pan again, with a little vinegar, and boil it till enough; when you take it up, fet it over the water to drain, and cover it dole up, and when you difh it, be as quick as poffible, for it foon grows cold; pour over it cockle, fhrimp, or mulcle fauce, lay over * it oyfter patties; garni fir it with barberries and V horfe-radifh.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER, 35 To fry Soles, SKIN your foies as you do eels, but keep on their heads; rub them over with an egg, and llrew over them bread crumbs, fry them over a brifk fire in hog’s-larcl a light brown, ferve them up with good melted butter, and garnifh it with green pickles. To marinate Soles. BOIL them in fait and water, bone and drain them, lay them on a difn with the belly up, boil fome fpinage, and pound it in a mortar, then boil four eggs hard, chop the whites and yolks l'eparate, lay green, white, and yellow amongft the foies; ferve them up with melted butter in a boat. To broil Haddocks or Whitings. GUT and wafh your haddocks or whitings, dry them with a cloth, and rub a little vinegar over them, it will keep the fkin on better, dull them well with Hour, rub your grid-iron with butter, and let it be very hot when you lay the fifh on, or they will Hick, turn them two or three times on the grid-iron, when enough ferve them up, and lay pickles round them, with plain melted butter, or cockle fauce; they are a pretty difh for fupper. A fccond Way. WHEN you have cleaned your haddocks or whitings, as above, put them in a tin oven, and fet them before a quick fire; when the (kins be- gin to rife take them off, beat an egg, rub it over F 2 them36 THE EXPERIENCED them with a feather, and drew over them a few biead crumbs, dredge them well with flour; when your grid-iron is hot rub it well with but- ter or fuet, it muft be very hot before you lay the fiih on, when you have turned them, rub a little cold butter over them, turn them as your fire requires until they are enough and a little brown ; lay round them cockles, mufcles, or red cab- bage; you may either have fhrimp fauce or melted butter. To fry Smelts or Sparlings. DRAW the guts out at the gills, but leave in the melt or roe, dry them with a cloth, beat an egg, and rub it over them with a feather, then drew bread crumbs over them, fry them with hog’s-lard or rendered beef fuet; when it is boil- ing hot put in your fifh, fhake them a little, and fry them a nice brown, drain them in a fieve; when you difh them put 'a bafon in the middle of your difh with the bottom up, lay the tails of your fifh on it, fry a handful of parfley in the fat your fifh was fryed in, take it out of water as you fry it, and it will keep its colour and crifp fooner, put a little on the tails, and lay the red in lumps round the edge of the difh ; ferve it up with good melted butter for fauce. To fry Perch or Trout. WHEN you have fcaled, gutted, and waflied your perch or trout, dry them well, then lay them feparately on a board before the fire, two minutes; before you fry them dud them well with flour, and fry them a fine brown in road drippingENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 37 dripping or rendered fuet; ferve them up with melted nutter and crilped parlley. To drcfs Perch in Water Sokey. SCALE, gut, and walh your perch, put fait in your water; when it boils, put in the fifh, with an onion cut in flices; you muft feparate it into round rings, a handful of parlley picked and walked clean; put in as much milk as will turn the water white; when your filh are enough, put them in a foup-difh, ana pour a little of the water over them with the parlley and the onions, then ferve them up with butter and parlley in a boat; onions may be omitted if you pleafe. You may boil trout the fame way. To boil Eels. SKIN, gut, and take the blood out of your eels, cut off their heads, dry them, and turn them round on your filh-plate, boil them in fait and water, and make parlley fauce for them. To pitch-cock Eels. SKIN, gut, and walh your eels, then dry them with a cloth, fprinkle them with pepper, fait, and a little dried fage; turn them backward and forward, and Ikewer them; rub your grid- iron with beef fuet, broil them a good brown, put them on your dilh with good melted but- ter, and lay round fryed parlley. To broil Eels. WEIEN you have Ikinned and cleanfed your eels as before, rub them with the yolk of an egg, ftrew33 THE EXPERIENCED ftrew over them bread crumbs, chopped parfley, pepper, and fait; bafte them well with- butter, and let them in a dripping-pan; roaft or broil them on a grid-iron; ierve them up with parfley and butter for fauce. To boll Flounders, and all Kinds of Flat Fish, CUT off the fins, and nick the brown fide under the head; then take out the guts, and dry them with a cloth, boil them in fait and water; make either gravy, fhrimp, cockle, or muffle fauce, and garnifh it with red cabbage. To few Oysters, and all Sorts of Shell Fish. WHEN you have opened your oyfters, put their liquor into a toffmg-pan, with a little beaten mace; thicken it with flour and butter, boil it three or four minutes, toaft a flice of white bread, and cut it into three-cornered pieces; lay them round your difh, put in a fpoonful of good cream, put in your oyfters, and fhake them round in your pan; you muft not let them boil, for if they do, it will make them hard and look fmall; ferve them up in a little foup-difh or plate. N. B. You may flew cockles, muffles, or any fhell fifh the fame way. To few Oysters, Cockles, and Muscles. OPEN your fifh clean from the fhell, fave the liquor, and let it ftand to fettle; then ftrain itENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 39 To it through a hair fieve, and put to it as many crumbs of bread as will make it pretty thick, and boil them well together before you put in the fifh, with a good lump of butter, pepper, and fait to your tafte, give them a fmgle boil and ferve them up.—A7. B. You may make it a fifh fauce, by adding a glafs of white wine juft before you take it off the fire, and leaving out the crumbs of bread. To fcollop Oysters. WHEN your oyfters are opened, put them in a bafon, and wafh them out of their own liquor, put fome of your fcollop-fhells, ftrew over them a few bread crumbs, and lay a dice of butter on them, then more oyfters, bread crumbs, and a dice of butter on the top, put them into a Dutch oven to brown, and ferve. them up in the fhells. % To fry Oysters. TAKE a quarter of an hundred of large oy- fters, beat the yolks of two eggs, add to 'it a a little nutmeg and a blade of mace pounded, a fpoonful of flour, and a little fait; dip in your oyfters, and fry them in hog’s-lard a light brown; if you choofe you may add a little pardey fhred fine. N. B. They are a proper garnifti for cod’s-head, calves-head, or mod; made difhes.THE EXPERIENCED 4° To make Oyster Loaves. TAKE fmall French rafps, or you may make little round loaves, make a round hole in the top, ferape out all the crumb, then put your oyfters into a toffing-pan, with the liquor and crumbs that came out of your rafps or loaves, and a good lump of butter, flew them together five or fix minutes, then put in a fpoonful of good cream, fill your rafps or loaves, lay the bit of cruft carefully on again, fet them in the oven to crifp. 'Three are enough for a fide dilh. To boil Lobsters. TAKE your lobfter, and put a fkewer in the vent of the tail, to prevent the water from get- ting into the belly of the lobfter; put it into a pan of boiling water, with a little fait in it, if it be a large one it will take half an hour’s boiling; when you take it out, put a lump of butter in a cloth, and rub it over, it will ftrike the colour, and make it look bright. To roajl Lobsters. HALF boil your lobfter as before, rub it well with butter, and fet it before the fire, bafte it all over till the fhell looks a dark brown, ferve it up with good melted butter.ENGLISH HOtrSE-KEEPER. 41 G To To Jlcw Lobsters or Shrimps. PICK your lobfters or fhrimps in as large pieces as you can, and boil the fhells in a pint of water, with a blade or two of mace, and a few whole pepper-corns; when all the ifrength is come out of the fhells and fpice, ftrain it, and put in your lobfters or fhrimps, and thicken it with flour and butter and give them a boil; put in a glafs of white wine, or two fpoonfuls ot vinegar, and ferve it up. To make Lobster Patties to garnijh Fish. TAKE all the red feeds and the meat of a lobfter, with a little pepper, fait, and crumbs of bread, mix them well with a little butter, make them up in fmall patties, and put them in either rich batter, or thin pafte, fry or bake them, and garnifh your fifh with them. To pickle Sturgeon. CUT your fturgeon into what fize pieces you pleafe, wafh it well, and pe it with mats; to every three quarts of water put a quart of old ftrong beer, a handful of bay fait, and dou- ble the quantity of common fait, one ounce of ginger, two ounces of black pepper, one ounce of cloves, and one of Jamaica pepper, boil it till it will leave the bone, then take it up; the next day put in a quart of ftrong ale allegar, and a little fait, tie it down with ftrong paper, and keep it for ufe. — Don’t put your fturgeon in till the water boils.THE EXPERIENCED 4 2 To pickle Salmon the Newcajlle Way. TAKE a falmon about twelve pounds, gut it, then cut off the head, and cut it acrofs in. what pieces you pleafe, hut don’t fplit it, fcrape the blood from the bone, and wafh it well out, then tie it acrofs each way, as you do fturgeon, fet on your fifh-pan with two quarts of water,, and three? of ftrong beer, half a pound of bay ialt, and one pound of common lalt; when it boils fcum it well, then put in as much fifh as your liquor will cover, and when it is enough take it carefully out, left you ftrip off the {kin, and lay it on earthen difties; when you have done all your fifh, let it Hand till the next day, put it into pots, add to the liquor three quarts of ftrong beer allegar, half an ounce of mace, the fame of cloves and black pepper, one ounce of long pepper, two ounces of white ginger, diced, boil them well together half an hour, then pour it boiling hot upon your fifh, when cold cover it well with ftrong brown paper.-— This will keep a whole year. To pickle Oysters. OPEN the larged: and fined: oyfters you can get, whole and clean from the died, wafh them in their own liquor, let it ftand to fettle, then pour, it from the fediment into the fauce-pan, put to it a glafs of.Lifbon wine, as much white wine vinegar as you had oyfter liquor, three or four blades of mace, a nutmeg diced, a few white pepper-corns, and a litttle fait, boil it five or fix minutes,ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 43 minutes, fcum it, then put in your oyfters, fimmer them ten or twelve minutes, take them out, and put them in narrow-topped jars ; when they are cold, pour over them rendered mutton i'uet, tie them down with a bladder, and keep them for ufe. To pickle Oysters another Way. BE careful not to break the oyfters in open- ing, cut off the black verge, and clean them very well from any part of the fhefl, put them into a bafon of water, walh the oyfters in it and ftrain the liquor, boil it with a little vinegar and fpi- ces till it fuit your tafte, then put the oyfters to it, and, if large, let them boil eight minutes; put them into ftone jars; when the liquor is cold pour it upon the oyfters, and to every fcore of oyfters put two fpoonfuls of water, and nearly two fpoonfuls of the heft vinegar, then tie them dole over with bladders and white leather. To collar Mackrel. GUT and flit your mackrel down the belly, cut off the head, take out the bones, take care you do not cut it in holes, then lay it flat upon its back, leafon it with mace, nutmeg, pepper, and fait, and a handful of parlley fhred fine, ftrew it over them, roll them tight, and tie them well feparately in cloths, boil them gently twenty minutes in vinegar, fait, and water, then take them out, put them into a pot, pour the liquor on them, or the cloth will flick to the filh, the next day take the cloth off your fifh, G 2 put44 THE EXPERIENCED put a little more vinegar to the pickle, keep them for ufe; when you fend them to the table, garnifh with fennel and parfley, and put fomc of the liquor under them. To pickle Mackrel. WASH and gut your mackrel, then fkewer them round with their tails in their mouths, bind them with a fillet to keep them from break ing, boil them in fait and water about ten mi- nutes, then take them carefully out, put to the water a pint of allegar, two or three blades of rnace, a little whole pepper, and boil it all to- gether, when cold pour it op the fifh, and tie it down cold. To pot Salmon. LET "your falmon be quite frefh, fcale and wafh it well, and dry it with a cloth, fplit it up the back and take out the bone, feafon it well with white pepper and fait, a little nutmeg and mace, let it lie two or three hours, then put it down, put it into the oven, and bake it an hour, when it comes out, lay it on a flat difli, that the oil may run from it, cut it to the fize of your pots, lay it in layers till you fill the pot, with the fkin upwards, put a board over it, lay on a weight to prefs it till cold, then pour over it clarified butter; when you cut it, the fkin makes it look ribbed; you may fend it to the table either cut in flices, or in the pot. A fccondENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 4$ A fecond Way. WHEN you have any cold fa}mo 11 left, take the {kin off,' and bone it, then put it in a mar- ble mortar, with a good deal of clarified but- ter ; feafon it pretty high with pepper, mace, and fait, Hired a little fennel very fmall, beat them all together exceeding fine, then put^ it clofe down into a pot, and cover it with clarified butter. To pot Smelts or Sparlings, DRAW out the guts with a fkewer under the gills, the melt or roe muff be left in, dry them well with a cloth, feafon them with fait, mace, and pepper, lay them in a pot, with half a pound of melted butter over them, tie them down, and bake them in a flow oven three quar- ters of an hour; when they are almoft cold, take them out of the liquor, put them into oval pots, cover them with clarified butter, and keep them for ufe. To pickle Smelts or Sparlings. GUT them with a {kewer under the gills, but leave the melt or roe in, dry them with a cloth, and fkewer their tails in their mouths, put fait in your water, when it boils put in your fifh for ten minutes, then take them up, put to the water a blade or two of mace, a few cloves, and a little allegar; boil them all together, and when it is cold put in your fifh, and keep them for ufe.To I the experienced To collar Eels. CASE your eel, cut off the head, flit open the belly, take out the guts, cut off the fins, take out the bones, lay it flat on the back, grate ovei it a 1 naall nutmeg, two or three blades of mace beat fine, a little pepper and fait, ftrew over it a handful of parfley (bred fine, with a few fage leaves, roll it up tight in a cloth, hmd it well; if it be of a middle fize, boil it m fait send water three quarters of an hour, hang it up all night to drain, add to the pickle a pint of vinegar, a few pepper-corns, and a fprig of fweet-marjoram, boil it ten minutes, and let it Hand till the next day, take off the cloth, and put your eels into the pickle; you may fend them whole on a plate, or cut them in flices; gar- ni fli with green parfley. Lampreys are done they fame.way. To pickle Cockles. WASH your cockles clean, put them in a fauce-pan, cover them clofe, let them over the fire, (hake them till they open, then pick them out of the fhells; let the liquor fettle till it be clean, then put in the lame quantity of wine vinegar, and a little fait, a blade or two of mage, boil them together, and pour it on your cockles, ?tnd keep them in bottles for ufe.——You muff pickle mufcles the fame way. •English house-keeper. 47 To pot Char. CUT off the fins and cheek-part of each fide of the head of your char, rip them open, take out the guts and the blood from the back- bone, dry them -well with a cloth, lay them on a board, and throw on them a good deal of fait, let them hand all night, then fcrape it gently off them, and wipe them exceedingly well with a cloth, pound mace, cloves, and nutmeg very fine, throw a little in the infide of them, and a good deal of fait and pepper on the outfide, put them clofe .down in a deep pot, with their bellies up, with plenty of clarified butter over them, fet them in the oven, and let them ftand for three hours; when they come out pour what butter you can off clear, lay a board over them, and turn them upfide down, to let the gravy run from them, fcrape the fait and pepper very carefully off, and feafon them ex- ceeding well both infide and out with the above feafon ing,' lay them clofe in broad thin pots for that purpofe, with the backs up, then cover them well with clarified butter; keep them in a cold dry place. To pot Eels. ' SKIN, gut, and clean your eels, cut them in pieces about four inches long, then feafon them with pepper, fait, beaten mace, and a little dryed fage rubbed very fine, rub them well with your feafoning, lay them in a brown pot, put over them as much butter as will coverTH£ EXPERIENCEb cover them, tie them down with a ftrong paper, fet them in a quick oven for an hour and a half; take them out, when cold put them into fmall pots, and cover them with clarified butter. *N. Bi You may pot lampreys the fame way* To pot Lampreys. TAKE lampreys alive, and run a fttck through their heads, and flit their tails, hang them up by their heads and they will bleed at the tail end; when they have done bleeding, cut them open, take out the guts, and wipe them until they are perfectly dry and clean (you muft not wafh them with water), then rub them with pepper and fait, let them ftand all night, and wipe them exceedingly dry again, then l'eafon them with pepper, fait, mace, and a little nutmeg, roll them up tight, put them in a pot with forne butter, cover them up with ftrong paper, and bake them in a moderate oven; when they are enough and near cold, drain out the butter from them, put them in your potting-pots, and cover them with clari- fied butter. To pot Lobsters. TAKE the meat out of the claws and belly of a boiled lobfter, put it in a marble mortar, with two blades of mace, a little white pepper and fait, a lump of butter the fize of half an. egg, beat them all together till they come to a pa'fte, put one half of it into your pot, take the meat1 ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 49 meat out of the tail part, lay it in the middle of your pot, lay on it the other half of your pafte, prefs it dole down, pour over it clarified butter, a quarter of an inch thick. N. B. To clarify butter, put your boat into a clean fauce-pan, fet it over a flow lire, when it is melted fcum it, and take it off the fire, let it ftand a little, then pour it over your lobflers ; take care you do not pour in the milk, which fettles to the bottom of the fauce-pan. A receipt to pot Lobsters, which cojl ten guineas* TAKE twenty good lobflers, and when cold pick all the meat out of the tails and daws (be careful to take out all the black gut in the tails, which muff not be ufed) beat fine three quarters of an ounce of mace, a fmall nutmeg, and four or five doves, with pepper and lalt, feafon the meat with it; lay a layer of butter into a deep earthen pot, then put in the lob- fters, and lay the reft of the butter over them (this quantity of lobfters will take at leaft four pounds of butter to bake them) tie a paper over the pot, fet them in an oven, when they are baked tender, take them out, and lay them on a difh to drain a little, then put them clofe down in your potting-pots, but do not break them in fmall pieces, but lay them in as whole as you can, only fplitting the tails. When you have filled your pots as full as you choofe, take a fpoonful or two of the red butter they were baked in, pour it on the top, and fet it before the fire to let it melt in, then cool it, and melt a little H white I50 THE EXPERIENCED white wax in the remainder of the batter, and cover them. N. B. Lay a good deal of the red hard part in the pot to bake, to colour the blitter, but do not put it in the potting-pots. To pot Shrimps. PICK the fin eft fhrimps you can get, feafon them with a little beaten mace, pepper and fait to your tafte, and with a little cold butfer pound them ail together in a mortar till it comes to a • pafte, put it down in fmall pots, and pour ove them clarified butter. To caveach Soles. FRY your foies in either oil or butter, boil fome vinegar with a little water, two or three blades of mace, a very few cloves, fome black pepper, and a little fait, let it hand till cold, and when cold beat up fome oil with it, lay your fifh in a deep pot, and dice a good deal of fhalots or onions between each fifh, throw your liquor over it, and pour fome oil on the top : it will keep three or four months, made rich, and fryed in oil ; it muft be flopped well, and kept in a dry place. Take out a little at a time when you ufe it. To caveach Fish. CUT your fifh into pieces the thicknefs of your hand, feafon it with pepper and fait, let it lie an hour, dry it well with a cloth, flour it, and then fry it a fine brown in oil : boil a fuffi- cientENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 51 H 2 To cient quantity of vinegar with a little garlick, mace, and whole pepper to cover the fifh, add the fame quantity of oil, and fait to your tafte, mix well the oil and vinegar, and when the fifh and liquor is quire cold, flice fome onion to lay in the bottom of the pot, then a layer of fifh and onion, and fo 011 till the whole fifh is put up; the liquor mull not be put in till it is quite cold. A very good Way to prcferve Fish. TAKE any large fifh, cut off the head, wafh it clean, and cut it into thin dices, dry it well with a cloth, flour it, and dip it in the yolks of eggs, fry it in plenty of oil till it is a fine brown, and well done, lay them to drain till cold, then lay them in your veil'd, throw in betwixt the layers mace, cloves, and diced nutmeg, then make a pickle of the bed; white wine vinegar, fhalots, garlick, white pepper Jamaica pepper, long pepper, juniper berries, and fait, boil it till the garlick is tender, and the pickle will be enough; when it is quite cold pour it on your fifh, with a little oil on the top; fmall fifh are done whole; cover it clofe with a bladder. To pickle Shrimps. PICK the fined; fhrimps you can get, and put them into cold allegar and fait, put them into little bottles, cork them clofe, and keep them for ufc.52 THE EXPERIENCED I I - . To pot red and black Moor-Game. PLUCK and draw them, and feafon them with pepper, cloves, mace, ginger, and nutmeg, well beaten and lifted, with a quantity of fait not to overcome the lpices, roll a lump of but- ter in the feafoning, and put it into the body of the fowls, rub the outfide with feafoning, and then put them into pots with the breaft down- wards, and cover them with butter, lay a paper, and then a pafte over them, and bake them till they are tender, then take them out, and lay them to dram, then put them into potting-pots with the breaft upward, and take all the butter they were baked in clean from the gravy, and pour upon them; fill up the pots with clarified blitter, and keep them in a dry place. CHAP. III. Obfer vat Ions on Roasting and Boiling. WHEN you boil any kind of meat, parti- cularly veal, it requires a great deal of care and neatnefs : be fure your copper is very clean and well tinned, fill it as full of foft water as is neceflary, duft your veal well with fine flour, put it into your copper, fet it over a large fire ; fome choofe to put in milk to make it white, but I think it is better without : if your water happens to be the leaft hard it curdles theENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 53 the milk, and gives the veal a brown yellow call, and often hangs in lumps about the veal, fo will oatmeal, but by dulling your veal, and putting it into the water when cold, it prevents the fulnels of the water from hanging upon it; when the fcum begins to rife, take it clear off, put on your cover, let it boil in plenty of water as flow as polhble, it will make your veal rife and plump: a cook cannot be guilty of a greater error than to let any fort of meat boil fail, it Hardens the outfide before the infide is warm, and difcolours it, efpecially veal; for inflance, a leg of veal of twelve pounds weight will re- quire three hours and an half boiling, the flower it boils the whiter and. plumper it will be; when you boil mutton or beef, o’bferve to dredge them well with flour before you put them into the kettle of cold water, keep it covered, and take off the fcum; mutton or beef do not require fo much boiling, nor is it fo great a fault if they are a little fhort, but veal, pork, or lamb, are not fo wholefome if they are not boiled enough; a leg of pork will requre half an hour more boiling than a leg of veal of the fame weight; when you boil beef or mutton, you may allow an hour for every four pounds weight; it is the beft way to put in your meat when the water is cold, it gets warm to the heart before the out- fide grows hard; a leg of lamb four pounds weight will require an hour and a half boiling. WHEN you roaft any kind of meat, it is a very good way to put a little fait and water in your54 THE EXPERIENCED your dripping-pan, bafte your meat a little with it, let it dry, then duft it well with flour, bafte it with irefti butter, it will make your meat a better coloui; oblerve always Jo have a brifk dear hre, it will prevent your meat from dazing and the froth from falling, keep it a good dis- tance from the Are, if the meat is fcorched the outfide is hard, and prevents the heat from pe- netrating into the meat, and will appear enough before it be little more than half done. Time, diiiance, bailing often, and a clear fire, is the beft method I can prefcribe for roafting meat to perfection; when the fleam draws near the fire it is a fign of its being enough, but you will be the beft judge of that from the time you put it down. Be careful, when you roaft any kind of wild fowl, to keep a clear brifk fire, roaft them a light brown, but not too much: it is a great fault to roaft them till the gravy runs out of them, it takes off the fine flavour. Tame fowls-require more roafting, they are a long time before they are hot through, and muff be often bafted to keep up a ftrong froth, it makes them rife better, and a finer colour. Pigs and geefe fhould be roafted before a good fire, and turned quick. Hares and rabbits re- quire time and care, to fee the ends are roafted enough; when they are half roafted, cut the neck fkin, and let out the blood, or when they are cut up they often appear bloody at the neck.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 5.5 To roajl a Pig. STICK your pig juft above the breaft-bone, run your knife to the heart, when it is dead put it in cold water for a few minutes, then rub it over with a little rofin beat exceeding fine, or its own blood, put your pig into a pail of Raid- ing water half a minute, take it out, lay it on a clean table, pull off the hair as quick as pofli- ble, if it does not come clean off put it in again, when you have got it all clean off wafh it in warm water, then in two or three cold waters, for fear ,the rofin fhould tafte; take off the four feet at the firft joint, make a flit down the bel- ly, take out all the entrails, put the liver, heart, and lights to the pettitoes, wafh it well out of cold water, dry it exceedingly well with a cloth, hang it up, and when you roaft it, put in a little fhred fage, a tea-fpoonful of black pepper, two of lalt, and a cruft of brown bread, fpit your pig and few it up; lay it down to a brifk clear fire, with a pig-plate hung in the middle of the fire; when your pig is warm, put a lump of butter in a cloth, rub your pig often with it while it is roafting; a large one will take an hour and a half: when your pig is a fine brown, and the fteam draws near the fire, take a clean cloth, rub your pig quite dry, then rub it well with a little cold butter, it will help to crifp it; then take a fharp knife, cut off the head, and take off the collar, then take off the ears and jaw-bone, fplit the jaw in two, when you have cut the pig down the back, which muff be done before you draw the fpit out, then lay yourthe experienced pig back to back on your difh, and the jaw on each fide, the ears on each Ihoulder, and the collai at the Iboulder, and pour in your iauce, and feive it up garnifh with a cruft of brown bread, grated. To make Sauce for a Pig. CHOP the brains a little, then put in a tea- poonful of white gravy with the gravy that runs out of the pig, a little bit of anchovy, mix near half a pound or butter, with as much flour as will thicken the gravy, a flice of lemon, a fp oon- ful of white wine, a little caper liquor and fait, Ihake it over the fire, and pour it into your difh; fome like currants; boil a few, and fend them in a tea-faucer, with a glafs of currant jelly in the middle of it. A fecond Way to make Pig-Sauce. CUT all the outfide off a penny loaf, then cut it into very thin flices, put it into a fauce-pan of cold water, with an onion, a few pepper corns, and a little fait, boil it until it be a fine pulp, then beat it well, put in a quarter of a pound of butter, and two fpoonfuls of thick cream, make it hot, and put it into a bafon. To drefs a Pig’s Pettitoes. TAKE up the heart, liver, and lights when they have boiled ten minutes, and fhred them pretty fmall, but let the feet boil till they are pretty tender, then take them out, and fplit them;ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. $7 them; thicken your gravy with Hour and but- ter, put in your mincemeat, a ilice of lemon, a fpoonful of white wine, a little fait, and boil it a little; beat the yolk of an egg, add to it two fpoonfuls of good cream, and a little grated nutmeg; put in your pettitoes, fhake it over the fire, but do not let it boil; lay fippets round your difh, pour in your mincemeat, lay the feet over them the fkin fide up, and fend them to table. To boil a Goose with Onion Sauce. TAKE your goofe ready drefled, finge it, and pour over it a quart of boiling milk, let it* lie in it all night, then take it out and dry it ex- ceeding well with a cloth, feafon it with pepper and fait, chop fmall a large onion, a handful of fage leaves, put them into your goofe, few it up at the neck and vent, hang it up by the legs till the next day, then put it into a pan of cold water, cover it clofe, and let it boil flowly one hour. ' To flew Goose Giblets. CUT your pinions in two, the neck in four pieces, flice the gizzard, clean, it well, Hew them in two quarts of water, or mutton broth, „with a bundle of fweet herbs, one anchovy, a few pepper-corns, three or four cloves, a fpoonful of catchup, and an onion; when the giblets are tender, put in a fpoonful of good cream, thicken it with flour and butter, ferve them up in afoup-difh, and lay fippets round it. I ToTHE EXPERIENCED To roajl a Green Goose. WHEN your goofe is ready dreffed, put in a good lump of butter, fpit it, lay it down, fmge it well, duft it with flour, bafte it well with frefh butter, bafte it three or four different times with cold butter, it will make the flefh rife better than if you was to bafte it out of the dripping-pan; if it is a large one it will take three quarters of an diour to roaft it; when you think it is enough, dredge it with flour, bafte it till it is a fine froth, and your goofe a nice brown, and difh it up with a little brown gravy under it: garnifh with a cruft of bread grated round the edge of your difh. To make Sauce for a Green Goose. TAKE fome melted butter, put in a fpoonful of the juice of forrel, a little fugar, a few cod- led goofeberries, pour it into your fauce-boats, and fend it hot to the table. • To roaf a Stubble Goose. CHOP a few fage leaves and two onions very fine, mix them with a good lump of but- ter, a tea-fpoonful of pepper, and two of fait, put it in your goofe, then fpit it and lay it down, fmge it well, duft it with flour; when it is thoroughly hot bafte it with frefh butter : if it be a large one it will require an hour and a half before a good clear fire; w'hen it is enough, dredge and bafte it, pull out the lpit, and pour | in a little boiling water.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 59 To make Sauce for a Goose. PARE, core, and flice your apples, put them in a fauce-pan with as much water as will keep them from burning; fet them over a very flow fire, keep them dole covered till they are all of a pulp, then put in a lump of butter and fugar to your tafte, beat them well, and fend them to the table in a fauce-boat. To boil Ducks with Onion Sauce. SCALD and draw your ducks, put them in warm water for a few minutes, then take them out, put them in an earthen pot, pour over them a pint of boiling milk, let them lie in it two or three hours; when you take them out dredge them well with flour, put them in a copper of cold water, put on your cover, let them boil flowly twenty minutes, then take them out, and Another them with onion fauce. To make Onion Sauce. BOIL eight or ten large onions, change the water two or three times while they are boiling; when enough, chop them on a board to keep them from growing a bad colour, put them in ' a fauce-pan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, two fpoonfuls of thick cream, boil it a little, and pour it over the ducks. To roaf Ducks. WHEN you have killed and drawn your ducks, fhred one onion, and a few fage leaves, I 2 putTHE EXPERIENCED Co put them into your ducks, with pepper and fait; 1Pit’ finge, and duft them with flour, bafte them with butter; if your fire be very hot they will be roafted in twenty minutes; the quicker they are roafted the better they eat: juft before you draw them duft them with flour, and bafte them with butter; put them on a difh, have ready your gravy, made of the gizzards and pinions, a large blade of mace, a few pepper- ed1 ns, a fpoonful of catchup, the fame of brown- ing, a tea-lpoonful of lemon pickle, and one onion; ftrain it, pour it on your difh, and fend onion fauce in a boat. To boil a Turkey with Oyster Sauce. LET your turkey have no meat the day be- fore you kill it; when you are going to kill it give it a fpoonful of allegar, it will make it white and eat tender; when you have killed it hang it up by the legs for four or five days at leaft; when you have plucked it draw it at the rump, if you can take the breaft - bone out nicely it will look much better, cut off the legs, put the end of the thighs into the body of the turkey, fkewer them down, and tie them with a firing, cut off the head and neck, then grate a penny loaf, chop a fcore or more of oyfters fine, ihred a little lemon peel, nutmeg, pepper, and fait to your palate, mix it up into a light force- meat, with a quarter of a pound of butter, a fpoonful or two of cream, and three eggs, fluff the craw with it, and make the reft into balls and boil them, few up the turkey, dredge it wellENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 61 well with flour, put it into a kettle oi cold wa- ter, cover it, and let it over the the ; when the fcum begins to rife take it off, put on your cover, let it boil very flowly for half an hour, then take off your ketttle, and keep it dole covered; if it be of a middle fize let it hand half an hour in hot water, the fteam being kept in will flew it enough, make it rile, keep the lkin whole, tender, and very white; when you dilh it up, pour over it a little of your oyfter fauce, lay your balls round it, and ferve it up with the reft of your fauce in a boat, garmfh with lemon and barberries.—N. B. Obferve to fet on your turkey in time, that it may ftew as above: it is the beft way I ever found to boil one to perfection: when you are going to difh it up, fet it over the fire to make it quite hot. To make Sauce for a Turkey, AS you open your oyfters, put a pint into a bafon, walh them out of their liquor, and put them in another bafon: when the liquor is fet- tled, pour it clean off into a fauce-pan, with a little white gravy, a tea-fpoonful of lemon pickle, thicken it with flour and a good lump of butter, boil it three or four minutes, put in a fpoonful of good thick cream, put in your oyfters, keep fhaking them over the fire till they are quite hot, but do not let them boil, it will make them hard and look little. A fecond Way to make Sauce for a Turkey. CUT the fcrag end of a neck of veal in pieces, put them in a fauce-pan with two or three bladesCl the experienced blades of mace, one anchovy, a few heads of celery, a little Chyan and fait, a glafs of white wine, a fpoonful ef lemon pickle, a tea-fpoonful ol mulhroom powder or catchup, a quart of water, put on your cover, and let it boil until it be reduced to a pint, drain it, and thicken it with a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in dour, boil it a little, put in a fpoonful of thick cream, and pour it over the turkey. To roajl a Turkey. WHEN you have drefled your turkey as before, trufs its head down to the legs, then make your forcemeat, take the crumbs of a penny loaf, a quarter of a pound of beef fuet Inred hne, a little faufage meat, or veal fcraped and pounded exceeding fine, nutmeg, pepper, and fait to your palate, mix it up lightly with three eggs, fluff the craw with it, fpit it, and lay it down a good difiance from the fire, keep it clear and brifk, finge, duft, and bafte it feveral times with cold butter, it makes the froth ftronger than bafting it with the hot out of the dripping-pan, it makes the turkey rife better: when it is enough, froth it up as before, difh it up, pour on your difh the fame gravy as for the boiled tui key, only put in browning inftead of cream: garnifh with lemon and pickles, and ferve it up; if it be a middle fize, it will re- quire one hour and a quarter roafting. To make Sauce for a Turkey. GUT the crufts off a penny loaf, cut the reft m thin flices, put it in cold water, with a few pepper-ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 63 pepper-corns, a little fait and onion, boil it till the bread is quite foft, then beat it well, put in a quarter of a pound of butter, two fpoonfuls of thick cream, and put it into a bafon. To boil Fowls. WHEN you have plucked your fowls, draw them at the rump, cut off the head, neck, and -legs, take the breaft-bone very carefully out, fkewer them with the end of their legs in the body, tie them round with a firing, finge, and duft them well with flour, put them in a kettle of cold water, cover it dole, let it on the Are ; when the fcum begins to rife take it off, put on your cover, and let them boil very flowly twenty minutes, take them off, cover them clofe, and the heat of the water will flew them enough in half an hour; it keeps the fkin whole, and they will be both whiter and plumper than if they had boiled faft; when you take them up, drain them, pour over them white fauce, or melted butter. To make White Sauce for Fowls. TAKE a fcrag of veal, the neck of the fowls, or any bits of mutton or veal you have, put them in a fauce-pan, with a blade or two of mace, a few black pepper-corns, one anchovy, a head of celery, a bunch of fweet herbs, a flice of the end of a lemon, put in a quart of water, cover it clofe, let it boil till it is reduced to half a pint, ftrain it, and thicken it with a quarter of a pound of butter, mixed with flour, boil it j fiveH THE experienced five or fix minutes, put in two fpoonfuls of pickled mufhrooms, mix the yolks of two eggs with a tea-cupful of good cream and a little nutmeg, put in your fauce, keep fhaking it over the fire, buj: do not let it boil. To roajl large Fowls. TAKE your fowls when they are ready dreffed, put them down to a good fire, finge, duft, and bafte them well with butter; they will be near an hour in roafting; make a gravy of the necks and gizzards, ftrain it, put a fpoon- ful of browning; when you difh them up, pour the gravy into the difh, ferve them up with egg fauce in a boat. To make Egg Saucf. BOIL two eggs hard, half chop the whites, then put in the yolks, chop them both toge- ther, but not very fine, put them into a quarter of a pound of good melted butter, and put it in a boat. To boil young Chickens. PUT your chickens in fcalding water, as foon as the feathers will flip off take them out, or it will make the fkin hard and break; when you have drawn them, lay them in fkimmed milk for two hours, then trufs them with their heads on their wings, finge and duft them well with flour, put them in cold water, cover them clofe, fet them over a very flow fire, take off the fcum, let them boil flowly for five or fix minutes, take themENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 65 To K them off the fire, keep them clofe covered in the water for half an hour, it will ftew them enough, and make them both white and plump; when you are going to dilh them, fet them, over the lire to make them hot, drain them, pour over them white-fauce made the lame way as for the boiled fowls. To roaft young Chickens. WHEN you roaft young chickens, pluck them very carefully, draw them, only cut off the claws, trufs them, and put them down to a good hre, finge, duff, and bafte^ them with but- ter; they will take a quarter of an hour roaft- ing, then froth them up, lay them on your dilh, pour butter and parlley in your dilh, and ferve them up hot. To roaft PHFASANTS or.PARTRIDGES. WHEN you roaft pheafants or partridges, keep them at a good cliftance from the fire, duft them, and bafte them often with frefh butter ; if your fire is good, half an hour will roaft them; put a little gravy in your difh, made of a fcrag of mutton, a fpoonful of catchup, the fame of browning, and a tea-fpoonful of lemon pickle, ftrain it, difh them up, with bread fauce in a bafon, made the fame way as for the boiled tur- key. N. B. When a pheafant is roafted, flick feathers on the tail before you fend it to the table.66 THE EXPERIENCED loroajl Ruffs or Rees. THESE birds I never met with but in Lin- colnfmre; the beft way is to feed them with white bread boded in milk, they mull have fe- parate pots, for two will not eat out of one, they will be fat in eight or ten days; when you kill them, flip the {kin off the head and neck with the leathers on, then pluck and draw them; w! en you roaft them, put them a good diftance from the fire; if the fire be good, they will take about twelve minutes; when they are roafied, flip the fkin on again with the feathers on, lend them up with gravy under them, made the fame as for pheafiints, and bread fauce in a boat, and critp crumbs of bread round the edge of the difh. To roajl Woodcocks or Snipes. PLUCK them, but do not draw them, put them on a imall fpit, duff and bafle them well with butter; toaft a few flices of a penny loaf, put them on a dean plate, and fet it under the b rds while they are roafling, if the fire be good they will take about ten minutes roafling; when you draw them lay them upon the toafls on the d’ff- ‘ noiir melted butter round them, and lerve them up. • , _ I'o roajl Wild Ducks or Teal. WHEN your ducks are ready dreffed, put • In them a fmall onion, pepper, fait, and a fpoon- fu: ot red wine, if the fire be good they will t 1 roaftENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 67 roaft in twenty minutes; make gravy of the necks and gizzards, a lpoonful of red wine, half an anchovy, a blade or two of mace, a flice of an end of lemon, one onion, and a little Chyan pepper; boil it till it is wafted to half a pint, ft rain it through a hair fteve, put in a ipoonftil of browning, pour it on your ducks, ferve them up with onion lauce in a boat; garnilh your difh with raipmgs of bread. To boil Pigeons. SCALD your pigeons, draw them, take the craw clean out, wafh them in mveral waters, cut off the pinions, turn the legs under the wings, dredge them, and put them in foft cold water, boil them very flowly a quarter of an hour, difh them up, pour over them good melted but- ter, lay round them a little brocoli in bunches, and fend parfley and butter in a boat. To roaft Pigeons. ' WHEN you have drefled your pigeons, as be- fore, roll a good lump of butter in chopped par- fley, with pepper and fait, put it in your pi- geons, fpit, dull, and bafte them; if the fire be good they will be roafted in twenty minutes ; when they are enough lay round them bunches of afparagus, with parfley and butter for fauce. To roaft Larks. PUT a dozen of larks on a fkewer, tie it to the fpit at both ends, dredge and bafte them, let them roaft ten minutes, take the crumbs of a K 2 half-<58 THE EXPERIENCED To halfpenny loaf, with a piece of butter the fize °t a walnut, put it in a toffing-pan, and fhake it over a gentle hre til! tliey are a light brown, lay thein betwixt your birds, and pour over them a Uttle melted butter. To boil Rabbets. WHEN you have cared your rabbets, Ikewer them with their heads freight up, the fore-legs brought down, and their h nd-legs ftreight; boil them three quarters of an hour at leaft, then fmother them with onion iauce, made the fame as for boiled ducks, pull out the jaw bones, hick them in their eyes, put a fprig of myrtle or bar- berries in their mouths, and ferve them up. To roajl Rabbets. \v HEN you have cafed your rabbets, fkewer their heads with their mouths upon their backs, flick then foi e-legs into their ribs, fkewer the hind-legs double, then make a pudding for them of the crumbs of half a penny loaf, a little par- fley, fweet-marjoram, thyme, a lemon peel, all ilired fine, nutmeg, pepper, and fait to your tafte, mix them up into a light fluffing, with a quai ter of a pound of butter, a little good cream, and two eggs, put it into the belly, and few them up, dredge, and bafte them well with butter, roafl them near an hour, ferve them up with par- fley and butter for fauce, chop the livers, and lay them in lumps round the edge of your diih.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 69 ITo roajl a Hare. SKEWER your hare with the head upon one fhoulder, the fore-legs duck into the r?bs, the hind-legs double; make your pudding of the crumb of a penny loaf, a quarter of a pound of beef marrow or fuet, and a quarter of a pound of butter; fhred the liver, a fprig or two of win- ter lavory, a little lemon peel, one anchovy, a little Chyan pepper, half a nutmeg grated; mix them up in a light forcemeat, with a glafs of red wine and two eggs; put it in the belly of your hare, few it up, put a quart of good milk in your dripping-pan, bade your hare with it till it is reduced to half a gill, then dull and bade it well with butter; if it be a large one, it will re- quire an hour and a half roaltmg. To boil a Tongue. IF your tongue be a dry one, deep it in water all night, then boil it three hours; if you would have it eat hot, dick it with cloves, rub it over with the yolk of an egg, drew over it bread crumbs, bade it with butter, let it before the bre till it is a light brown; when you difh it up, pour a little brown gravy, or red wine fauce, mixed the fame way as for venifon, lay dices of cur ant-jelly round it. N. B. If it be a. p cxled one, only wadi it out of water. To boil a Ham. STEEP your ham all night in water, then boil it; if it be of a middle fize it will take three70 THE EXPERIENCE© three hours boiling, and a final 1 one two hours and a half; when you take it up, pull off the Ikin, and mb it all over with an egg, ftrew on bread crumbs, balle it with butter, let it to the fire till it be a light brown; if it be to eat hot, garnilh with carrots, and ferve it up. To roafl a Haunch of Venison. WHEN you have 'fpitted pour venifon, lay over it a large fheet of paper, then a thin com- mon pafte with another paper over it, tie it well, to keep the pafte from falling; if it be a large one it will take four hours roafting; when it is enough take off the paper and pafte, dull; it well with flour, and bafte it with butter; when it is a light brown, difh it up with brown gravy in your dilH, or currant-jelly fauce, and lend lome in a boat. To broil Beef Steaks. CUT your fteaks off a rump of beef about half an inch thick, let your fire be clear, rub your grid-iron well with beef fuet, when it is hot lay them on; let them broil until they begin to brown, turn them, and, when the other fide is brown, lay them on a hot difh, with a flice of butter betwixt every fteak; fprinkle a little pep- per and fait over them, let them ftand two or three minutes, then flice a fhalot as thin as pof- fible into a fpoonful of water; lay on your fteaks again, keep turning them till they are enough, put them on your difh, pour the fhalot and water amongft them, and fend them to the table. A veryENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 71 A very good Way to fry Beef Steaks. CUT your fteaks as for boiling, put them into a ftew-pan, with a good lump of butter, let them over a very flow fire, keep turning them till the butter is become a thick white gravy, pour it into a bafon, and pour more butter to them; when they are almoft enough, pour all the gravy into your bafon, and put more butter into your pan, fry them a light brown over a quick fire, take them out of the pan, put them in a hot pewter diih, flice a fhalot among them, put a little in your gravy that was drawn from them, and pour it hot upon them: I think this is the belt way of drefling beef fteaks. Half a pound of butter will drefs a large difh. To drefs Beef Stfaks a common Way. FRY your fteaks in butter a good brown, then put in half a pint of water, an onion diced, a fpoonful of walnut catchup, a little caper liquor, pepper and fait, cover them clofe with a diih, and let them (tew gently; when they are enough, thicken the gravy with flour and butter, and ferve them up. To broil Mutton Steaks. CUT your fteaks half an inch tbftck, when your grid-iron is hot rub it with frefh fuet, lay on your fteaks, keep turning them as quick as podible, if you d ) not take great care the fat that drops from the fteak will fmoke them; when they are enough, put them into a hot difh, rub them72 the experienced them well with butter,, /lice a fhalot very thin into a fpoonful of water, pour it on them, with a fpoonful of mufhroom catchup and fait; ferve them up hot. To broil Pork Stfaks. OBSERVE the fame as for the mutton iteaks, only pork requires more boiling; when they are enough put in a little good gravy; a lAttle fage ruobed very fine ftrewed over them gives them a fine talk. To hajh Bfef. CUT your beef in very thin dices, take a little of your gravy that runs from it, put it into a toffing-pan, with a tea-fpoonful of lemon pickle, a large one of walnut catchup, the fame of browning, 11 ice a fhalot in, and put it over the fire; when it boils put in your beef; fhake it over the fire till it is quite hot, the gravy is not to be thickened, flice in a final! P elded cucumber; garniih with feraped horfe- radifh or pickied onions. To hajh Venison. CUT your venifon in thin flices, put a large glafs of red wine into a toffing-pan, a fpoonful of mufhroom catchup, the fame of browning, an onion ftuck with cloves, and half an anchovy chopped finall; when it bolls, put in your veni- fon, let it boil three or four minutes, pour it into a foup-difh, and lay round it currant-jelly, pr red cabbage. TeENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 73 \ To hcijh .Mutton. CUT your mutton in flices, put a pint of gravy or broth into a toflmg-pan, with one fpoonful of mufhroom catchup, and one of browning, Dice in an onion, a little pepper and hilt, put it over the fire, and thicken it with flour and butter; when it boils put in your mut- ton, keep lhaking it till it is thoroughly hot, put it in a foup-difh, and lerve it up. . To hajh Vt'.AL. CUT your veal in thin round flices, the flze of half a crown, put them into a l'auce-pan, with a little gravy and lemon peel cut exceeding line, a tea-fpoonful of lemon pickle, put it over the lire, and thicken it with flour and butter; when it boils put in your veal, juft before you difh it up put in a fpoonful of cream, lay iippets round your difh, and ferve it up. To warm up Scotch Collops. WHEN you have any Scotch collops left, put them into a ftone jar till you want them, then put the jar into a pan of boiling water, let. it ftand till your collops are quite hot, then pour them into a difh, lay over them a few broiled bits of bacon, and they will eat as well as frefti ones. To mince Veal. CUT your veal in flices, then cut it in little fquare bits, but do not chop it, put it into a iauce- C pan.74 THE EXPERIENCED pHii, with two or three fpoonfuls of gravy, a flicc of lemon, a little pepper and fait, a good lump ol butter rolled in Hour, a tea-fpoonful of lemon pickle, and a large Ipoonful of cream ; keep fhaking it over the fire till it boils, but do not let n boil above a minute, if you do it will make yom veal eat hard: put fippets round your difh, and ferve it up. To ha/Jj a Turkey. s \ TAKE off the legs, cut the thighs in two pieces,^ cut off the pinions and breaft in pretty large'pieces, take off the fkin, or it will give the gravy a greafy tafte, put it into a ftew-pan, with a pint or gravy, a tea-fpoonful of lemon pickle, a flice of the end of a lemon, and a little beaten mace, bo;l your turkey fix or feven minutes (if you boil it any longer it will make it hard) then put it on your di h, thicken your gravy with flour and butter, mix the yolks of two eggs with a fpoonful of thick cream, put it in your ' gravy, fhake it over the fire till it is quite hot, but do not let it boil, ftrain it, and pour it over your turkey: lay fippets round, ferve it up, and garnifh with lemon or parfley. To hajh Fowls. CUT up your fowl as for eating, put it in a , toffing-pan, with half a pint of gravy, a tea- fpoonful of lemon pickle, a little mufhroom catchup, a flice of lemon, thicken it with flour and blitter; juft before you difh it up put in a fpoonfulENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 75 fpoonful of good cream, lay fippets round your diih, and ferve it up. A nice Way to drefs a Gold Fowl) PEEL off all the fkin, and pull the flefh off the bones in as large pieces as you can, then dredge it with a little Hour, and fry it A nice brown in butter, tols it up in rich gravy, well feafoned, and thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour; juft before you fend it up fqueele in the juice of a lemon. «* To hcijlo a Woodcock or Partridge. CUT your woodcock up as for eating, work the intrails very fine with the back of a fpoon, mix it with a fpoonful of red wine, the fame of water, half a fpoonful of allegar, cut an onion in flices and pull it into rings, roll a little butter in flour, put them all in your to fling-pan, and fhake it over the fire till it boils, then put in your woodcock, and when it is thoroughly hot, lay it in your diih, with fippets round it, ftrain the lauce over the woodcock, and lay on the onion in rings—it is a pretty corner diih for dinner or fupper. To hajlo a Wild Duck CUT lip your duck as for eating, put it in a toffmg-pan, with a fpoonful of good gravy, the fame of red wine, a little of your onion fauce, or an onion fliced exceeding thin; when it has boiled two or three minutes, lay the duck76 THE EXPERIENCED * , m your d fh, pour the gravy over it, it muft not be thickened; you may add a tca-fpoonful of caper liquor, or a little browning. To hafh a Hare. CUT your hare in fmall pieces, if you have any of the pudding left, rub it fmall, put to it a large glafs of red wine, the fame quantity of water, half an anchovy chopped fine, an onion ftuck with four cloves, a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in flour, fhake them all together over a flow fire, till your hare is thoroughly hot, it is a bad cuftom to let any kind of hafh boil longer (it makes the meat eat hard) fend your hare to the table in a deep difh, lay llppets round it, but take out the onion, and ferve it up. To boil Cabbage, * t CUT off the outfide leaves, and cut it in quar-? ters, pick it well, and wafh it clean, boil it in a large quantity of water, with plenty of fait in it; wrhen it is tender, and a fine light green, lay it on a lieve to drain, but do not fqueefe it, if you do, it will take off the flavour; have ready fome very rich melted butter, or chop it with cold butter.—Greens muff be boiled the fame way. To boil a Caulyflower. W \SH and clean your caulyflower, boil it in plenty of milk and water (but no fait) till it be tender; when you difh it up, lay greens under it, pour over it good melted butter, and fend it up hot.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 77 To boil Brocoli in Imitation of Asparagus. TAKE the fide-fhoots of brocoli, ftrip off the leaves, and with a pen-knife take off all the out- rind up to the heads, tie them in bunches, and put them in fait and water; have ready a pan of boiling water, with a handful of fait in it; boil them ten minutes, then lay them in bunches, and pour over them good melted butter. To few Spinage. WASH your fpinage well in feveral waters, put it in a cullendar, have ready a large pan of boiling water, with a handful of fait; put it in, let it boil two minutes, it will take off the ffrong earthy tafte; then put it into a fieve, fqueefe it well, put a quarter of a pound of but- ter into a toffmg-pan, put in your Ipinage, keep turning and chopping it with a knife until it be quite dry and green; lay it upon a plate, prefs it with another, cut it in the fhape of fippets or diamonds, pour round it very rich melted butter; it will eat exceeding mild, and quite a different taffe from the common way. To boil Artichokes. If they are young ones, leave about an inch of the ftalks, put them in ffrong fait and water for an hour or two, then put them in a pan of cold water, fet them over the fire, but do not cover them, it will take off their colour; when you difh them up, put rich melted butter in final 1 cups or pots, like rabbits; put them in the difh with your artichokes, and fend them up. ToTHE EXPERIENCED To boil Asparagus. SCRAPE your afparagus, tie them in fmall bunches, boil them in a large pan of water with ialt in it; before you difh them up toaft fome flices of white bread, and dip them in the boil- ing water; lay the afparagus on your toafts, pour on them very rich melted butter, and ferve them up hot. To boil French Beans. CUT the ends of your beans off, then cut them flant-ways, put them in ftrong fait and water as you do them, let them ftand an hour, boil them in a large quantity of water, with a handful of fait in it, they will be a fine green; when you difh them up pour on them melted butter, and fend them up. To boil Windsor Beans. BOIL them in a good quantity of fait and water, boil and chop fome parfley, put it in good melted butter; ferve them up with bacon in the middle, if you choofe it. To boil Green Peas. • SHELL your peas juft before you want them, put them in boiling water, with a little fait and a lump of loaf fugar; when they be- gin to dent in the middle they are enough ; ftrain them in a fieve, put a good lump of but- ter into a mug, give your peafe a (hake, put themENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 79 them on a difh, and fend them to the table.— Boil a fprig of mint in another water, chop it fine, and lay it in lumps round the edge of your dilh. / To boil Parsnips. WASH your parfnips well, boil them till they are foft, then take off the {kin, beat them in a bowl with a little fait, put to them a little cream and a lump of butter, put them in a toffing-pan, and let them boil till they are like a light cuftard pudding, put them on a plate, and fend them to the table. CHAP. IV. Obfervations on Made Dishes. BE careful the toffing-pan is well tinned, quite clean, and not gritty, and put every ingredient into your white fauce, and have it of a proper thicknefs, and well boiled, before you put in eggs and cream, for they will not add much to the thicknefs, nor ftir them with a fpoon after they are in, nor fet your pan on the fire, for it will gather at the bottom, and be in lumps, butv hold your pan a good height from the fire, and keep fhaking the pan round one way, it will keep the fauce from curdling, and be fure you do not let it boil; it 's the beft way to take up your meat, collops, or hafh, or any otherSo THE EXPERIENCED otl’it: kind of a difh you are making with a fhh dice, and drain your fauce upon it, for it is almod impolfible to prevent little bits of meat from mixing vwth the failce, but by this method the fauce will look clear. In the brown made dilhes take fpecial care no fat is on the top of the gravy, but fkim it clean olf, that it may be of a fine brown, and tafle of no one thing in particular ; if you ufe any wine put it in fome time before your difh is ready, to take off the rawnefs, for nothing can give a made difh a more difagreeable tade than raw wine, or frefh anchovy : when you ufe fryed forcemeat balls, put them on a fieve to drain the fat from them, and never let them boil in your fauce, it will give it a greafy look, and (often the balls; the bed way is to put them in after your meat is difhed up. You may ufe pickled mufhrooms, artichoke bottoms, morels, trufles, and forcemeat balls in almod every made difh, and in feveral you may ufe a roll of forcemeat indead of balls, as in the porcupine bread: of veal, and where you can ufe it, it is much handfomer than balls, efpecially in a mock turtle, collared or ragooed bread of veal, or any large made difh. To make Lemon Pickle. TAKE two dozen of lemons, grate off the out-rinds very thin, cut them in four quarters, but leave the bottoms whole, rub on them equally half a pound of bay fait, and fpread them on a large pewter difh, put them in a cool oven, or let them dry gradually by the fire tillENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 81 till all - he uice is dried nto the peels, then put them nto a p tcher well glazed, with one ounce of mace, half an ounce of cloves heat fine, one ounce of nutmeg cut in thin Dices, four ounces of garfick peeled, half a pint of muf- tard feed bruifed a little, and tied in a muflin bag, pour two quarts of boiling white wine vinegar upon then}, clofe the pitcher well up, and let it hand five or fix days by the fire ; ftvahe it well up every day, then tie it up, and let it ftand for three months to take off the bitter ; when you bottle it put the pickle and lemon in a hair fieve, preis them well, to get out the liquor, and let it ftand till another day, then pour off the fine, and bottle it ; let the other ftand three or four days and it will refine itfelf, pour it off and bottle it, let it ftand again, and bottle it, till the whole is refined : it may be put in any white fauce, and will not hurt the colour ; it is very good for fifh fauce and made difhes, a tea-1 poonful is enough for white, and two for brown fauce for a fowl; it is a rrroft ufe- ful pickle, and gives a pleafant flavour : be fure you put it in before you thicken the fauce, or put any cream in, left the fharpnefs make it curdle. / Browning for Made Dishes. BEAT fin all four ounces of treble-refined fugar, put it in a clear iron frying-pan, with one ounce of butter, fet it over a clear fire, rmx it very well together all the time ; when it begms to be frothy, the fugar is diffolving, hold it higher over the fire, have ready a pint M of82 THE EXPERIENCED of red wine ; when the fugar and butter is of a deep brown, pour in a little of the wine, flir it well together, then add more wine, and keep ftirring it all the time ; put in half an ounce of Jamaica pepper, fix cloves, four, fhalots peeled, two or three blades of mace, three fpoonfuls of mu 111 room catchup, a little fait, the out-rind of one lemon, boil it llowly for ten minutes, pour it into a bafon, when cold take off the fcum very clean, and bottle it for ufe. To drefs a Mock Turtle. TAKE the largeft calf’s head you can get-, with the {kin on, put it in fcalding water till you find the hair will come off, clean it well, and walk it in warm water, and boil it three quarters of an hour, then take it out of the water and flit it down the face, cut off all the meat along with the fldn as clean from the bone as you can, and be careful you do not break the ears off, lay it on a flat difh, and fluff the ears with forcemeat, and tie them round with cloths, take the eyes out, and pick all the reft of the meat clean from the bones, put it in a tofling- pan, with the niceft and fatteft part of another calf’s head, without the fldn on, boiled as long as the above, and three quarts of veal gravy ; lay the {kin in the pan on the meat, with the flefh fide up, cover the pan clofe, and let it flew over a moderate fire one hour, then put in three fweetbreads fryed a light brown, one ounce of morels, the fame of truffles, five artichoke bot- toms boiled, one anchovy boned and chopped fmall,ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. S3 M 2 morels fmall, a tea-fpoonful of Chyan pepper, a little fait, half a lemon, three pints of Madeira wine, two meat-fpoonfuls of mufti room catchup, one of lemon pickle, half a pint of mufhrooms, and let them Hew flowly half an hour longer, and thicken it with flour and butter; have ready the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, and the brains of both heads boiled; cut the brains the iize of nutmegs, and make a rich forcemeat, and fpread it on the caul of a leg of veal, roll it up, and boil it in a cloth one hour; when boiled, cut it in three parts, the middle Jargeft, then take up the meat into the difh, and lay the head over it, with the fkin fide up, and put the largcft piece of forcemeat between the ears, and make the top of the ears to meet round it (this is called the crown of the turtle); lay the other flices of the forcemeat oppolite to each other at the narrow end, and lay a few of the truffles, morels, brains, muflirooms, eggs, and artichoke bottoms upon the face and round it, ftrain the gravy boiling hot upon it, be as quick in difhing it up as poflible, for it loon gets cold. Mock Turtle a fcco?id Way. DRESS the hair off a calf’s he?id as before, boil it half an hour; when boiled, cut it in pieces hall an inch thick, and one inch and a half long, put it into a ftew-pan, with two quarts of veal gravy, and fait to your tafte; let it flew one hour, then put in a pint of Madeira wine, half a tea-fpoonful of Chyan pepper, truffles and84 THE EXPERIENCED morels one ounce each three or four artichoke bottoms |> iled and cut in quarters; when the lj '■ ^Cg. ns to look dear, and the gravy ftrong, p- n half a lemon, and thicken it with hour and hotter, fry a few forcemeat balls, beat four vOiks of hard bo led eggs in a mortar very fine, vena a lump or butter, and make them into balls tin: nee of pigeons eggs; put the forcemeat balls and eggs in after you have difhed it up. -/V. JJ. A lump of butter put in the water makes the artichoke bottoms boil white and fooner. - - To male an Artificial Turtle. SCALD a ca r’s head, cut it in pieces one inch thick, two broad, and four long; parboil a ialmon’s liver, cut it in ten or twelve pieces, feafon the whole with beaten mace, fait, and Chvan.; put them into a well-lined copper d:lh, with a pint and a half of gravy made of veal. U-x anchovies, a blade of mace, and a fprig of tweet-marjoram (your gravy inuft be very good), a pint of Madeira wine, the juice of four or five lemons drained from the feeds, the yolks of ten or twelve eggs boiled hard, and about three dozen of forcemeat balls, made as the receipt directs; let it ftew gently about an hour, al- ways keep it clofe covered; then dir in a lump of butter the fize of an orange, with a tea- fpoonful of fine Hour rolled in it, and let it ftew full two hours longer: if you perceive it wants addition of feafon I ng, &c. add it to it a few mi- nutes before you ferve. it up, which mull be in a loup- lENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER, 85 a foup-difh or tureen, with the yolks and dices of lemon on the top; take care to fkim off the fat before you difh it up. To make Forcemeat for an Artificial Turtle. TAKE a pound of the fat of a loin of veal, the fame of lean, with fix boned anchovies, beat them fine in a marble mortar, feafon with mace, Chyan fait, a little fhred parfley, fweet-mar- joram, lome juice of lemon, and three or four fpoonfuls of Madeira wine, mix thefe well to- gether, and make it into little balls, duft them with a little fine flour, and put them into your difh to flew about half an hour before you ferve it up; the green fkin of a falmon’s head is a very great addition to your turtle; boil it a little, then flew it among the reft of the things. To make a Calf’s EIead Hajh. CLEAN your calf’s head exceedingly well, and boil it a quarter of an hour; when it is cold cut the meat into thin broad dices, and put it into a tofling-pan, with two, quarts of gravy; and when it has ftewed three quarters of an hour add to it one anchovy, a little beaten mace, and Chyan to your tafte, two tea-fpoonfuls of lemon pickle, two rneat-fpoonfuls of walnut catchup, half an ounce of truffles or morels, a dice or two of lemon, a bundle of Iweet herbs, and a glafs of white wine, mix a quarter of a pound of butter with flour, and put it in a few minutes before the head is enough, take your brains and put them into hot water, it will make them fkin fooner,86 THE EXPERIENCED fooner, and beat them fine in a bafon, then add to them two eggs, one fpoonful of dour, a bit of lemon peel Owed fine, chop fmall a little par- iley, thyme, and fage, beat them very well to- gether, lfrew in a little pepper and fait, then drop them in little cakes into a panful of boil - Ing hog’s lard, and fry them a light brown, then lay them on a fieve to drain; take your hafh out of the pan with a fifh-flice, and lay it on your difh, and drain your gravy over it, lay upon it a few mufhrooms, forcemeat balls, the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, and the brain-cakes:— garnifh with lemon and pickles. It is proper for a top or fide difh. To drcfs a Calf’s Head the bejl Way. TAKE a calf’s head with the fkin on, and fcald off all the hair, and clean it very well, cut it in two, take out the brains, boil the head very white and tender, take one part quite off the bone, and cut it into nice pieces, with the tongue, dredge it v\dth a little flour, and let it flew on a flow fire for about half an hour in rich white gravy made of veal, mutton, and a piece of bacon, feafoned with pepper, fait, onion, and a very little mace; it mull be drained off before the hafh is put in it, thicken it with a little butter rolled in flour; the other part of the head muft be taken off in one whole piece, fluff it with nice forcemeat, and roll it like a collar, and flew it tender in gravy, then put it in the middle of the difh, and the hafh all round, gar- nifh it with forcemeat balls, fryed oyfters, and theENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 87 the brains made into little cakes dipped in rich blitter and fryed. You may add wine, morels, truffles, or what you pleafe, to make it good and rich. To. drefs a Calf’s Head Surprise. DRESS off the hair of a large calf’s head as directed in the mock-turtle, then take a fharp pointed knife, and raze off the fkin, with as much of the meat from the bones as you poffi- bly can get, that it may appear like a whole head when it is fluffed, and be careful you do not cut the fkin in holes, then fcrape a pound of fat bacon, the crumbs of two penny loaves, grate a fmall nutmeg, with fait, Chyan pepper, and Aired lemon peel to your tafte, the yolks of fix eggs well beat, mix all up into a rich forcemeat, put a little into the ears, and fluff the head with the remainder, have ready a deep narrow pot that it will juft go in, with two quarts of water, half a pint of white wane, two fpoonfuls of lemon pickle, the fame of walnut and mufli- room catchup, one anchovy, a blade or two of mace, a bundle of fweet herbs, a little lalt and Chyan pepper, lay a coarfe pafte over it to keep in the fleam, and fet it in a very quick oven two hours and a half; when you take it out lav your head in a foup-difh, fkim the fat clean off the gravy, and ftrain it through a hair fleve into a tofling-pan, thicken it with a lump of butter rolled in flour; when it has boiled a few mi- nutes, put in the yolks of fix eggs well beat, and mixed with half a pint of cream, but do not let88 THE EXPERIENCED let it boil, it will curdle the eggs; you rnuR have ready boiled a few forcemeat balls, half an ounce of truffles and morels, it would make the gravy too dark a colour to hew them m it; pour gravy over your head, and garnifh with the truffles, morels, forcemeat balls, mufhroo-ms, and barberries, and ferve it up.-— This is a handfome top difh at a fmall expence. To grill a Calf’s Head. WASH your calf’s head clean, and boil it al- moft enough, then take it up and haih one half, the other half rub over with the yolk of an egg, a little pepper and fait, flrew over it bread crumbs, pariley chopped fmall, and a little grated lemon peel, fetit before the fire, and keep balling it all the time to make the froth rife ; when it is a fine light brown, difh up your halh, and lay the grilled fide upon it. Blanch your tongue, Hit it down the middle, and lay it on a foup-plate: Ikin the brains, boil them with a little fage and pariley; chop them fine, and mix them with fome melted butter and a fpoonful of cream, make them hot, and pour them over the tongue, ferve them up, and they are fauce for the head. To collar a Calf’s EIead. TAKE a calf’s head with the Ikin on and Raid it, clean it well, then bone it, feafon it with pepper, fait, cloves, mace, and a little ginger, all ground very fine, take fome cochi- neal, dilfolve it in fome water, rub it on the in fideENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 89 infide of the head with a little bay fait, and a large handful of chopped parfley, roll it up light in a cloth, and boil it till you think it is enough in a pickle made of all forts of fweet herbs, l'pices, and lome red wine, then unroll the cloth and roll it tight again, and put weights upon it, as it lies in the pickle, to prefs it clofe till it is cold, then boil fome bran and water with fome bay and common fait, {train it off, and when they are both cold put in the head, and let it lie three or four days before you ufe it. To make a Porcupine of a Breast of Veal. BONE the fined; and largeft bread; of veal you can get, rub it over with the yolks of two eggs, fpread it on the table, lay over it a little bacoti cut as thin as poffible, a handful of parlley Hired fine, the yolks of five hard boiled eggs chopped fmall, a little lemon peel cut fine, nut- meg, pepper, and fait to your tafte, and the crumbs of a penny loaf fteeped in cream, roll the bread; clofe, and fkewer it up, then cut fat bacon and the lean of ham that has been a little boiled, or it will turn the veal red, and pickled cucumbers about two inches long to anlwer the other lardings, and lard it in rows, firft ham, then bacon, then cucumbers, till you have larded it all over the veal; put it into a deep earthen pot, with a pint of water, cover it, and let in a dow oven two hours; when it comes from the oven Ikim the fat off, and fhain the gravy through a fieve into a ftew-pan, put in a glals of white wine, a little lemon pickle N and90 THE EXPERIENCED and caper liquor, a Ipoonful of mufhroom catch- up, thicken it with a little butter rolled in flour, lay your porcupine on a dilh, and pour it hot npon it, cut a roll of forcemeat in four flices, ay one at each end and the other at the fides; have ready your fweetbread cut in dices and iryed, lay them round it, with a few mulhrooms. t is a grand bottom difh when game is not to be had. ^■•"~~Make the forcemeat of a few chopped oyhers, the crumbs of a penny loaf, half a pound ol beef fuet fhred fine, and the yolks of four eggs, mix them well together with nutmeg, Chyan pepper, and fait to your palate, ipread it on a veal caul, and roll it up clofe like a collared eel, bind it in a cloth, and boil it one hour. Tc ragoo a Breast of Veal, HALF road; a bread: of veal, then bone if, ana put it in a tofiing-pan, with a quart of veal gt avy, one ounce of morels, the fame of truffles, dew it till tender, and juft before you thicken the gravy put m a few oyfters, pickled mufh- rooms, and pickled cucumbers, cut in fimall fquare pieces, the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, cut your fweetbread in flices, and fry it a light brown, difh up your veal, and pour the gravy hot over, it, lay your fweetbread round, morels, truffles, and eggs upon it: garnifh with pickled barberries; this is proper for either top or fide for dinner, or bottom for lupper. To IENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 91 To collar a Breast of Veal. TAKE the fineft breaft of veal, bone it, and rub i.t over with the yolks of two eggs, and ftrew over it fome crumbs of bread, a little grated lemon, a little pepper and fait, a handful of chopped parlley, roll it up tight, and bind it hard with twine, wrap it in a cloth, and boil it one hour and a half, then take it up to cool, when a little cold take off the cloth, and clip off the twine carefully, left you open the veal, cut it in five flices, lay them on a difh, with the fweetbread boiled and cut in thin Dices and laid round them, with ten or twelve forcemeat balls; pour over your white fauce, and garnifh with barberries or green pickles. The white fauce muft be made thus:—Take a pint of good veal gravy, put to it a fpoonful of lemon pickle, half an anchovy, a tea-fpoon- tu[ ot mufhrooni powder, or a few pickled mufti- rooms, give it a gentle boil; then put in half a |Pm,t °* cream> the yolks of two eggs beat fine, ftiake it over the fire after the eggs and cream is in but do not let it boil, it will curdle the cream A-^fPtTr f°r a l'°P dIfh atnISht> or a fide dun for dinner. \ A boiled Breast of Veal. SKEWER your bread of veal, that it will lie flat m the dilh, boil it one hour (if a large one an hour and a quarter), make a white fauie as before mentioned for tire collared one, pour 1. over, and garnifh with pickles. F N 2 A Neck92 THE EXPERIENCED A Neck of Veal Cutlets. CUT a neck of veal into cutlets, fry them a line brown, then put them in a toffing-pan, and ftew them till tender in a quart of good gravy, then add one fpoonful of browning, the fame of catchup, fome fryed forcemeat balls, a few truffles, morels, and pickled mufhrooms, a lit- tle fait, and Chyan pepper, thicken your gravy with flour and butter, let it boil a few minutes, lay your cutlets in a difh, with the top of the ribs in the middle, pour your fauce over them, lay your balls, morels, truffles, and mufhrooms over the cutlets, and fend them up. A Neck of Veal a-la-royale. CUT off the fcrag-end and part of the chine- bone, to make it lie flat in the difh, then chop a few mufhrooms, fhalots, a little parfley and thyme, all very fine, with pepper and ialt, cuff middle-fized lards of bacon, and roll them in the herbs, &c. and lard the lean part of the neck, put it in a ftew-pan, with fome lean bacon or fhank of ham, and the chine-bone and fcrag cut in pieces, with three or four carrots, onions, a head of celery, and a little beaten mace; pour in as much water as will cover the pan very dole, and let it ftew flowly for two or three hours, till tender, then ftrain half a pint of the liquor out of the pan through a fine fieve, fet it over a ftxwe, and let it boil, keep ftirring it till it is dry at the bottom, and of a good brown; be fure you do not let it burn ; then add more of the liquor ftrained 1ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 93 free from fat, and keep ftirring it till it becomes a fine thick brown glaze, then take the veal out of the ftew-pan, and wipe it clean, and put the larded fide down upon the glaze, let it over a o-entle fire five or iix minutes to take the glaze, Then lay it in the difh with the glazed fide up, and put into the fame ftew-pan as much flour as will lie on a fixpence, ftir it about well, and add fome of the braize liquor, if any left; let it boil till it is of a proper thicknefs, ftram it, and pour it in the bottom of the difh, fqueele in a little juice of lemon, and ferve it up. Bombarded Veal. CUT the bone nicely out of a fillet, make a forcemeat of the crumbs of a penny loaf, half a pound oi fat bacon fcraped, a little lemon peel or lemon thyme, parfley, two or three fprigs of . fweet-marjoram, one anchovy, chop them all very well, grate a little nutmeg, Chyan pep- per and fait to your palate, mix all up together with egg and a little cream, and fill.up the place where the bone came out with the forcemeat, then cut the fillet acrofs, in cuts about one inch from another all round the fillet, fill one nick with forcemeat, a fecond with boiling fpinage, that is boiled and wrell fqueefed, a third with bread crumbs, chopped oyfters, and beef mar- row, then forcemeat, and fill them up as above all round the fillet, w7rap the caul dole round it, and put it in a deep pot, with a pint of wrater, make a coarfe pafte to lay over it, to keep the oven from giving it a fiery tafte; when it comes out54 the experienced eravv^if'a Z™’ ““ ^ the fat’ and P“‘ the gravy m a ftew-pan, with a fpoonful of lemon P-ckle, and another of mulhroom catchup Z rowmng, half an ounce of morels and'truf ters' fhTcken'fh T ^ b°tt~ ^ give L a vent e l T"1* floUr and b“tter, into your di(h. ’ P°Ur “ UP0n the veal To make a Fricando o/'Veal. lonTLf e4S4alf an ,inch thick> and fix Inches ! ?’, 1 the thlck Part of a lev of veal krd them with fmall cardoons, and gduft ,Lem finL hl°Ur; V th6m before the fire to broil a fine brown, then put them into a large toffinc- Sf an“La qUa4 °f S°°d 8TaV>b and^t it (lei Ip .b,°.ur’ then put in two tea-fpoonfuls of femon pickle, a meat-fpoonful of walnut catch- p, the fame of browning, a (lice of lemon, a ’m anehovy and Chyan, a few morels and uffles; when your fncandos .are tender, take butter "Li andfhlckfn y°m gravy with flour and Uttei, drain it, place your fricandos in the , ’ Pour your gravy on them; garnifli with lemons and barberries. You may lay round them forcemeat balls fryed, or forcemeat rolled in veal caul, and yolks of eggs boiled hard. To make Veal Olives. CUT the thick part of a leg of veal in thin fhces, flatten them with the broad fide of a cleaver, rub them over with the yolk of an egg, fbrewENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 95 ftrew over every piece a very thin flice of bacon, with a few bread crumbs, a little le- mon peel and parlley chopped fmall, pepper, fait, and nutmeg; roll them up clofe, and fkewer. them tight, then rub them with the yolks of eggs, and roll them in bread crumbs and par- fley chopped fmall, put them into a tin drip- ping-pan to bake or fry them; then take a pint of good gravy, add to it a lpoonful of lemon pickle, the fame of walnut catchup, and one of browning, a little anchovy and Chyan pepper, thicken it with flour and butter, ferve them up with forcemeat balls, and ftrain the gravy hot upon them; garnifh with pickles, and ftrew over them a few pickled mufhrooms.—You may drefs veal cutlets the fame way, but not roll them. To make Veal Olives a fecond Way. CUT large collops off a fillet of veal, and hack them very well with the back of a knife, fpread forcemeat very thin over every one, roll them up and roaft them, or bake them in an oven; make a ragoo of oyfters and fweetbreads diced, a few morels and mufhrooms, and lav them in the difh with the rolls of veal; if you have oyfters enough, chop and mix fome with the forcemeat, it makes it much better; force- meat balls look very pretty round them; there mu ft be nice brown gravy in the difh, and they inuft be fent up hot. To96 THE EXPERIENCED To drefs Scotch Collops white, CUT them off the thick part of a leg of veal, the lize and thicknefs of a crown piece, put a lump of butter into a toffing-pan, and let it over a flow fire, or it will diicolour your collops; be- fore the pan is hot lay the collops in, and keep turning them over till you lee the butter is turned to thick white gravy; put your collops and gravy in a pot, and let them upon the hearth to keep warm; put cold butter again into your pan every time you fill it, and fry them as above, and fo continue till you have finifhed; when vou have fryed them, pour your gravy from them into your pan, with a tea-fpoonful of lemon pickle* mufhroom catchup, caper liquor, beaten mace, Chyan pepper, and fait, thicken with flour and butter; when it has boiled five minutes, put in the yolks of two eggs well beat,and mixed, with a tea-cupful of rich cream ; keep fhaking your pan over the fire till your gravy looks of a fine thicknefs, then put in your collops and fhake them; when they are quite hot put them on your difh, with forcemeat balls, ftrew over them pickled inufhrooms :—garnifh with barberiies and kidney-beans. To drefs Scotch Collops brown, CUT your collops the fame way as the white ones, but brown your butter before you lay in your collops, fry them over a quick fire, fhake and turn them, and keep them on a fine froth: when they are a light brown, put them into a - pot,ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 97 pot, and fry them as the white ones; when you have fryed them all brown, pour all the gravy from them into a clean tolfing-man, with halt a pint of gravy made of the bones and bits you cut the collops off, two tea-fpoonfuls of lemon pickle, a large one of ^ catchup, the fame of browning, half an ounce of morels, half a le- mon, a little anchovy, Chyan, and fait to your tade, thicken it with flour and butter, let it boil five or fix minutes, then put in your col- lops, and (hake them over the fire; if they boil it will make them hard; when they have fim- mered a little, take them out with an egg-fpoon, and lay them on your difh, drain your gravy, and pour it hot on them; lay over them force- meat balls, and little dices of bacon curled round a fkewer and boiled, throw a few mufh- rooms over; garnifh with lemon and barberries, and lerve them up. • To drefs Scotch Collops the French Way. TAKE a leg of veal, and cut your collops pretty thick, five or fix inches long, and three inches broad, rub them over with the yolk of an egg, put pepper and fait, and grate a little nutmeg on them, and a little (hred parflev; lay them on an earthen difh, and fet them before the fire, bade them with butter, and let them be a fine brown, then turn them on the other fide, and rub them as above, bade and brown it the fame way; when they are thoroughly enough, make a good brown gravy with truffles and mo- rels, difh up your collops, lay truffles and morels O and98 THE EXPERIENCED and the yolks of hard-boiled eggs over them; garnilh with crifp parfley and lemon. Sweetbreads a-la-daube. TAKE three of the larged: and fined fweet- breacis you can get, put them in a lauce-pan of boiling water for five minutes, then take them out, and when they are cold lard them with a row down the middle, with very little pieces of bacon, then a row on each fide of lemon peel cut the fize of wheat draw; then a row on each fide of pickled cucumbers, cut very fine; put' them in a tofling-pan, with good veal gravy, a little juice of lemon, a fpoonful of browning, dew them gently a quarter of an hour ; a little before they are ready thicken them with flour and butter, difh them up, and pour the gravy over, lay round them bunches of boiled celery, or oyder patties; garnilh with dewed fpinage, green-coloured parfley, dick a bunch of barber- ries in the middle of each fweetbread. It is a pretty corner-difh for either dinner or dipper. Forced Sweetbreads. PUT three fweetbreads in boiling water five minutes, beat the yolk of an egg a little, and rub it over them with a feather; drew on bread crumbs, lemon peek and parfley fhred very fine, nutmeg, fait, and pepper to your palate; fet them before the fire to brown, and add to them a little veal gravy, put a little mufliroom pow- der, caper liquor, or juice of lemon and brown- ing, thicken it with flour and butter, boil it a little, and pour it in your difh, lay in your fweetbreads,ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 99 ivveetbreads, and lay over them lemon peel in rings, cut like ltraws; garnilh with pickles. To f icajfee Sweetbreads brown. SCALD three fweetbreads, when cold cut them in 11 ices the thicknefs of a crown piece, clip them in batter, and fry them in frelh butter a nice brown, make a gravy for them as the laft, ftew your fweetbreads ilowly in the gravy eight or ten minutes, lay them on your dilh, and pour the gravy over them; garnifh with lemon or barberries. To fricajfee Sweetbreads white. SCALD and dice the fweetbreads as before, put them in a tolling-pan, with a pint of veal gravy, a fpoonful of white wine, the fame of mulhroom catchup, a little beaten mace, hew them a quarter of an hour, thicken your gravy with flour and butter a little before they are enough; when you are going to dilh them up, mix the yolk of an egg with a tea-cupful of thick cream and a little grated nutmeg ; put it into your toffing-pan, and lhake it well over the fire, but do not let it boil; lay your fweetbreads on your dilh, and pour your fauce over them; gar- nilh with pickled red beet-root and kidney- beans. To ragoo Sweetbreads. RUB them over with the yolk of an egg, ilrew over them bread crumbs, parllev, thyme, O 2 andTHE EXPERIENCED IOO and fweet-marjoram Aired fmall, and pepper and fait; make a roll of forcemeat like a lweet- bread, and put it in a veal caul, and roaft them m a Dutch oven, take fome brown gravy, and put to it a little lemon pickle, mufflroom 'catch- up, and the-end of a lemon; boil the gravy, and when the fweetbreads are enough lay them in a difli, with the forcemeat in the middle, take the end of the lemon out, and pour the gravy into the difh, and ferve them up. To few a Fillet of Veal. TAKE a fillet of a cow calf, huff it well undei the elder, at the bone and quite through to the fhank, put it in the oven, with a pint of water under it, till it is a fine brown, then put it in a flew -pan, with three pints of gravy; flew it tender, put in a few morels, truffles, a tea- fpoonful of lemon pickle, a large one of brown- ing, and one of catchup, and a little Chyan pep- per; thicken with a lump of butter rolled in flour; difh up your veal, ftrain your gravy over, lay round forcemeat balls g garnifh with pickles and lemon. To ragoo a Fillet of Veal, LARD your fillet and half roafi: it, then put It in a toffing-pan, with two quarts of good gravy, cover it clofe, and let it flew till tender, then add one fpoonful of white wine, one of browning, one of catchup, a tea-fpoonful of lemon pickle, a little caper liquor, half an ounce ofENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER, ioj v)f morels, thicken with flour and butter, lay round it a few yolks of eggs. A good Way to drcfs a Midcalf. TAKE a calf’s heart, fluff it with good forcemeat, and fend it to the oven in an earthen difli, with a little water under it, lay butter over it, and dredge it with flour, boil half the liver and all the lights together half an hour, then chop them fmall, and put them in a toffmg-pan, with a pint of gravy, one fpoonful of lemon pickle, and one of catchup, fqueefe in halt a le- mon, pepper and fait, thicken with a good piece of butter rolled in flour; when you difli it up, pour the minced meat in the bottom, and have ready fryed a fine brown the other half of the liver cut in thin flices, and little bits of bacon, fet the heart in the middle, and lay the liver and bacon over the minced meat, and ferve it up. To difguife a Leg o/'Veal. LARD the top fide of a leg of veal in rows with bacon, and fluff it well with forcemeat made of oyfters, then put it into a large fauce- pan, with as much water as will cover it, put on. a clofe lid, to keep in the fleam, ftrew it gently till quite tender, then take it up, and boil down the gravy in the pan to a quart, fkim off the fat, and add half a lemon, a fpoonful of mufhroom catchup, a little lemon pickle, the crumbs of halt a penny loaf grated exceeding fine, boil it in your gravy till it looks thick, then add half a pint of oyfters, if not thick enough, roll a lumpio2 THE EXPERIENCED lump of butter in flour and put it in, with half a pint of good cream, and the yolks of three eggs, fhake your fauce over the fire, but do not let it boil after the eggs are in left it curdle; put youi veal in a deep difh, and pour the fauce over it: garnifh with crifped parfley and fryed oyfters. — ^ is an excellent difh for the top of a large table. Harico of a Neck o/Mutton. CU i the beft end of a neck of mutton into chops in fingle ribs, flatten them, and fry them a light brown, then put them into a large fauce- pan, with two quarts of water, a large carrot cut in flices, cut at the edge like wheels; when they have ftewed a quarter of an hour put in two turnips cut in fquare flices, the white part of a head of celery, a few heads of afparagus, two cabbage lettuces fryed, and Chyan to your tafte, boil them all together till they are tender, the gravy is not to be thickened; put it into a tureen, or foup-difh. It is proper for a top difh. To drefs a Neck of Mutton to eat like Venison. CUT a large neck before the fhoulder is taken off, broader than ufual, and the flap of the fhoulder with it, to make it look handfomer; flick your neck all over in little holes with a fharp penknife, and pour a bottle of red wine upon it, and let it lie in the wine four or five days, turn and rub it three or four times a-day, then take it out, and hang it up for three days in theENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER, ioj the open air out of the fun, and dry it often with a cloth, to keep it from mulling; when you roall it bafte it with the wine it was fteeped in, if any left, if not, frefh wine, put white paper, three or four folds, to keep in the fat, roaft it thoroughly, and then take off the fkin, and froth it nicely, and lerve it up. To moke French Steaks of a Neck of Mutton. LET your mutton be very good and large, and cut off moft part of the fat of the neck, and then cut the fteaks two inches thick, make a large hole through the middle of the flefhy part of every fteak with a penknife, and ftufF it with forcemeat made of bread crumbs, beef fuet, a little nutmeg, pepper and fait, mixed up with the yolk of an egg; when they are fluffed, wrap them in writing paper, and put them in a Dutch oven, fet them before the fire to broil, they will take near an hour, put a little brown gravy in your dilh, and ferve them up in the papers. A Shoulder of Mutton furprifed. HALF boil a fhoulder, then put it in a tof- fing-pan, with two quarts of veal gravy, fouF ounces of rice, a tea-fpoonful of mufhroom powder, a little beaten mace, and flew it one hour, or till the rice is enough, then take up your mutton and keep it hot, put to the rice half a pint of good cream, and a lump of butter rolled in Hour, (hake it well, and boil it a few minutes; lay your mutton on the difh, and pour it104 THE EXPERIENCED it oyer: garnifh with barberries or pickles, arid lend it up. uo drefs a Shoulder of Mutton called Hen and Chickens. HALF roaft a fhoulder, then take it up, and eut off the blade at the firft joint, and both the 1 aPs’ tP make the blade round, fcore the blade round in diamonds, throw a little pepper and ialt over it, and fet it in a tin oven to broil, cut the naps and the meat off the lhank in thin flices into the gravy that runs out of the mutton, and put a little good gravy to it, with two fpoonfuls o walnut catchup, one of browning, a little Chyan pepper, and one or two fhalots ; when your meat is tender, thicken it with flour and butter, put your meat in the dilh with the gravy, and lay the blade on the top, broiled a dark brown; garnifh with green pickles, and ferve it up. ‘To boil a Shoulder of Mutton with Onion Sauce. PUT your fhoulder in when the water is cold, when enough fmother it with onion fauce, piade the fame as for boiled ducks.—You mav drels a fhoulder of veal the fame way. A Shoulder of Mutton and Celery Sauce. BOIL it as before till it is quite enough, pour over it celery fauce, and fend it to the table.— N. B.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 105 iY. B. The fauce—Walla and clean ten heads of Celery, cut off the green tops, and take off the outlide ftalks, cut them into thin bits, and boil it in gravy till it is tender, thicken it with flour and butter, and pour it over your mutton.—A fhoulder of veal roafted, with this fauce, is very good. Mutton kebob'd. CUT a loin of mutton in four pieces, take off the (kin, and rub them with the yolk of an egg, ftrew over them a few bread crumbs, and a little Aired pariley, turn theili round and fpit them, roaft them, and keep bailing all the wh'le with frefh butter, to make the froth rife ; when they are enough put a little brown gravy under, and ferve them up : garnifh with pickles. I To grill a Breast of Mutton. SCORE a breaft of mutton in diamonds, and rub it over with the yolk of an egg, then flrew on a few bread crumbs and flared pariley, put it in a Dutch oven to broil, bafte it with freih but- ter, pour in the difla good caper fauce, and ferve it up. Split Leg o/’Mutton mid Onion Sauce. SPLIT the leg from the fhank to the end, flick a ikewer in to keep the nick open, bafte it with red wine till it is half roafted, then take the! wine out of the dripping-pan, and put to it one anchovy, fet it over the fire till the anchovy is (liffolved, rub the yolk of a hard egg in a little P cold106 THE EXPERIENCED cold butter, mix it with the wine, and put it in }our iauce-boat, put good onion fauce over the leg when it is roafted, and ferve it up. To force a .Leg of Mutton. RAISE the Ikin, and take out the lean part of the mutton, chop it exceeding fine, with one anchovy, fhred a bundle of fweet herbs, grate a penny loaf, half a lemon, nutmeg, pepper, and fait to your tafte, make them into a force- meat, with three eggs and a large glafs of red wine, fill up the {kin with the forcemeat, but leave the bone and fhank in their place, and it will appear like a whole leg, lay it on an earthen difh, with a pint of red wine under it, and fend it to the oven; it will take two hours and a half; when it comes out take off all the fat, ftrain the gravy over the mutton, lay round it hard yolks of eggs, and pickled mufhrooms :—garnifh with pickles, and ferve it up. To drefs Sheep’s Rumps and Kidneys. * BOIL fix fheep’s rumps in veal gravy, then lard yo»r kidneys with bacon, and let them be- fore the fire in a tin oven ; when the rumps are tender, rub them over with the yolk of an egg, a little Chyan and grated nutmeg, fkim the fat off the gravy, put it in a clean tofling-pan, with three ounces of boiled rice, a ipoonful of good cream, a little mulhrooin powder or catchup, thicken it with flour and butter, and give it a gentle boil, fry your rumps a light brown; when you difh them up, lay them round on vour rice, foI ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 107 fo that the fmall ends meet in the middle, and lay a kidney between every rump : garnifh with red cabbage or barberries, and ferve it up. It is a pretty fide or corner difh. To drefs a Leg of Mutton to eat like Venison. GET the largeft and fatteffc leg of mutton you can get, cut out like a haunch of venifon ; as foon as it is killed, whilft it is warm, it will eat the tenderer, take out the bloody vein, flick it in leveral places in the under fide with a fharp- pointed knife, pour over it a bottle of red wine, turn it in the wine four or five times a day for five days, then dry it exceedingly well with a clean cloth, hang it up in the air with the thick end uppermoft for five days, dry it night and morn- ing, to keep it from being damp, or growing mufty ; when you roaft it, cover it with paper and pafte, as you do venifon; ferve it up with venifon lauce.—It wilt take four hours roafting. A Basque of Mutton. TAKE the caul of a leg of veal, lay it in a copper difh the fize of a fmall punchbowl, take the lean of a leg of mutton that has been kept a week, chop it exceeding fmall, take half its weight in beef marrow, the crumbs of a penny loaf, the yolks of four eggs, two anchovies, half a pint of red wine, the rind of half a lemon grated, mix it like faufage-meat, and lay it in your caul in the infide of your difh, claufe up the caul, and bake it in a quick oven; when it P 2 comes *io8 THE EXPERIENCED To comes out lay your difh upfide-down, and turn the whole out, pour over it brown gravy, and fend it up with venifon fauce in a boat: gar- nidi with pickle. Oxford John. TAKE a dale leg of mutton, cut it in as thin collops as you poihbly can, take cut all the fat finews, feafon them with mace, pepper, and lait, ftrew among them a little fhred parfley, thyme, and two or three fhalots, put a good lump ot butter into a dew-pan; when it is hot put in all your coilops, keep dirring them with a wooden fpoon till they arc three parts done, then add half a pint of gravy, a little juice of lemon, thicken it a little with flour and butter, let them fimmer four or five minutes and they will be quite enough ; if you let them boil, or have them ready before you want them, they will grow hard : ferve them up hot, with fryed bread cut in dices, over and round them. To boil a Leg of Lamb and Loin fryed. CUT your leg from the loin, boil the leg three quarters of an hour, cut the loin in hand-, fome deaks, beat them with a cleaver, and fry them a good brown, then dew them a little in ftrong gravy, put your leg on the difh, and lay your deaks round it, pour on your gravy, lay round lumps of dewed fpinage, and crifped par- fley on every deak, fend it to the table with goofeberry lauce in a boat.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 109 To force a Quarter of Lamb. TAKE a hind quarter, and cut off the fhank, raife the thick part of the flefh from the bone with a knife, fluff the place with white force- meat and fluff it under the kidney, half roaft it, then put it in a tofling-pan, with a quart of mutton gravy, cover it dole up, and let it flew gently : when it is enough, take it up, and lay it on your dilh, fkim the fat off the gravy, and flrain it, then put in a glafs of Madeira wine, one fpoonful of walnut catchup, two of brown- ing, half a lemon, a little Chyan, half a pint of oyfters, thicken it with a little butter rolled in flour, pour your gravy hot on your lamb, and ferve it up. To drefs a Lamb’s Head and Purtenance. SKIN the head and fplit it, take the black part out of the eyes, then wafh and clean it exceedingly well, lay it in warm water till it looks white, wafh and clean the purtenance, take off the gall, and lay them in water, boil it half an hour, then mince your heart, liver, and lights, very fmall, put the mince-meat in a tofling-pan, with a quart of mutton-gravy, a little catchup, pepper and fait, half a lemon, thicken it with flour and butter, a fpoonful of good cream, and juft boil it up; when your head is boiled, rub it over with the yolk of an egg, flrew over it bread crumbs, a little fhred parfley, pepper and fait, bafte it well with butter, and. brown it before the fire,110 THE experienced To Ere, or with a falamandcr, put the purtenance on your difh, and lay the head over it; S with lemon or pickle, and ferve it up. ^ Tofricajfee Lamb’s Stones. SKIN fix lambs’. Hones, or what quantity you peafe, dip them in hatter, and fry them in hog s-lard a nice brown, have ready a little veal gravy, thicken it with flour and butter, put in a tea-fpoonful of lemon pickle, a little mufh- loom catchup, a flice of lemon, a little grated nutmeg, beat the yolk of an egg, and mix it with two fpoonfuls of thick cream, put in your gravy, keep fhaking it over the fire till it looks white, and thick, then put in the lambs’ ftones, an give them a fhake; when they are hot, difh tnem up, and lay round them boiled forcemeat balls. To roaji a Pig in Imitation o/Lamb. ^TT your pig be a month or five weeks old, divide it down the middle, take off the fhoulder, and leave the reft to the hind part, then take the ikin off, draw fprigs of parfley all over the out- fide, which muft be done by running a fkewer or lardmg-pm, and flicking the ftalk of the par- iley in it; fpit it, and roaft it before a quick fire, dredge it, and bafte it well with frefh butter, roaft it a fine brown, and fend it up with a froth on it: garnifh with green. parfley, it will eat and ook like fat lamb.—-—It is eat withfallad.t ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER, m to To barbecue a. Pig. DRESS a pig of ten weeks old as if it were to be roafted, make a forcemeat of two ancho- vies, fix fage leaves, and the liver of the pig, all chopped very fmall; then put them into a marble mortar, with the crumbs of half a penny loaf, four ounces of butter, half a tea-fpoonful of Chyan pepper, and half a pint of red wine; beat them all together to a pafte, put it in your pig’s belly, and few it up; lay your pig down at a good diftance before a large brifk fire, finge it well, put in your dripping-pan three bottles of red wine, bade it with the wine all the time it is roafting; when it is half roafted put under your pig two penny loaves, if you have not wine enough, put in more; when your pig is near enough, take the loaves and fauce out of your dripping-pan, put to the fauce one anchovy chopped fmall, a bundle of fweet herbs, and half a lemon, boil it a few minutes, then draw your pig; put a fmall lemon or apple in the pig’s mouth, and a loaf on each fide, ftrain your fauce, and pour it on them boiling hot; lay bar- berries and flices of lemon round it, and fend it up whole to the table.—It is a grand bottom difti. It will take four hours roafting. To barbecue a Leg of Pork. LAY down your leg to a good fire, put into the dripping-pan two bottles of red wine, bafte your pork with it all the time it is roafting; when it is enough, take up what is left in the pan* putthe experienced I I 2 To to it two anchovies, the yolks of three eggs boiled hard and pounded fine, with a quarter of a pound of butter, and half a lemon, a bunch of fweet herbs, a tea-fpoonful of lemon pickle, a fpoon- ful of catchup, and one of torragon vinegar, or a little torragon fhred fmall; boil them a few minutes, then draw your pork, and cut the £kin down from the bottom of the lhank in rows an inch broad, raife every other row, and roll it to the fhank, ftrain your fauce, and pour it on boil- ing hot; lay oyfter patties all round the pork, and fprigs of green parfley. To fluff a Chine of Pork. TAKE a chine that has been hung about a month, boil it half an hour, then take it up, and make holes in it all over the lean part, one inch from another, fluff them betwixt the joints with fhred parfley, rub it all over with the yolks of eggs, ftrew over it bread crumbs, bafie it and fet it in a Dutch oven; when it is enough lay round it boiled brocoli, or ftewed fpinage ; garnifh with parfley. To roaft a EIam or a Gammon of Bacon, HALF boil your ham or gammon, then take off the {kin, dredge it with oatmeal lifted very fine, bafte it with frefh butter (it will make a ftronger froth than either flour or bread crumbs), then roaft it; when it is enough difh it up, and pour brown graVy on your difh ; garnifh with green parfley, and fend it to the table.ENGLISH HOUSEKEEPER. 113 To force the inficie of a Surloin o/'Beef. SPIT your furloin, then cut off from the in- fide all the fkln and fat together, and then take off all the flefh from the bones, chop the meat very fine with a little beaten mace, two or three fhalots, one anchovy, half a pint of red wine, a little pepper and fait, and put it on the bones again, lay your fat and {kin on again, and fkewer it dole, and pepper it well, when roafied take off the fat, and difli up the furloin, pour over it a fauce made of a little red wine, a fhalot, one anchovy, two or three Dices of horfe-radifh, and ferve it up. lo drefs the infide of a cold Surloin of Beef. CUT out all the infide (free from fat) of the furloin in pieces as thick as your finger and ab ut two inches long, dredge it with a httle flour, and fry it in nice butter of a light brown, then drain it, and tofs it up in rich gravy that has been well feafoned, with pepper, fait, fhalot, and an an- chovy; juft before you fend it up, add two fpoon- fuls of vinegar taken from pickled capers: gar- nifh with fryed oyfters, or what you pleale. Bouillie Beef. TAKE the thick end of a brifket of beef, put it into a kettle of water quite covered over, let it boil faft for two hours, then keep ftewing it dole by the fire for fix hours more, and as the water waftes fill up the kettle, put in with the beef iome turnips cut in little balls, carrots, and fome114 THE experienced To fome celery cut in pieces: an hour before it is done take out as much broth as will fill your loup-difh, and boil in it for that hour turnips and carrots cut out in balls, or in little fquare pieces, with fome celery, fait and pepper to your tafte; lerve it up in two difhes, the beef by itfelf, and the foup by itfelf; you may put pieces of fryed bread, if you like it, in your ioup, boil in a few knots of greens, and if you think your foup will not be rich enough, you may add a pound or two of fryed mutton chops to your broth when you take it from the beef, and let it flew for that hour in the broth, but be fure to take out the mutton when you fend it to the table : the foup mull be very clear. To few a Rump of Beef. HALF roaft your beef, then put it in a large fauce-pan or cauldron, with two quarts of water, and one of red wine, two or three blades of mace, a lhalot, one fpoonful of lemon pickle, two of walnut catchup, the fame of browning, Chyan pepper and fait to your tafte, let it ftew over a gentle fire, dole covered for two hours, then take up your beef, and lay it on a deep difh, fkim off the fat, and ftrain the gravy, and put in one ounce of morels, and half a pint of mufhrooms, thicken your gravy, and pour it over your beef, lay round it forcemeat balls: garnilh with horfe- radifh, and ferve it up.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 115 j’o flew a Rump o/’Beef afecond Way. STUFF your beef with three cloves of gar- lick *in different parts, make a hole with a fkewer, and get in the garlick as tar as about one hall your finger can reach, ftuff it likwile in leveral places with forcemeat, in the making of which put fome fat bacon cut in very fmall dices, then put your beef into a pot the right fide under, put about a pound of luet over it, five or iix ounces of bacon diced, and as much watei as will cover it, then fet the pot over the fire, let it boil for three quarters of an hour, then cover the pot quite clofe, and let it dew for four hours over a moderate fire, after which take it up and pour every drop of liquor from it, and put a quart of claret over it, and fet it on a very dow fire while you are preparing the fauce, which is to be either of turnips, or carrots, or palates, cut as for a ragoo, put in as much broth as you think diffident, with fome of the clear gravy free from fat that you poured off the beef, in a ftew- pan; boil them a little with morels, truffles, and a glafs of claret, and a little butter rolled in flour, which muff be toffed up together, and difh it up very hot. ^Fricando o/'Beef. . • \ CUT a few dices of beef five or fix inches long, and half an inch thick, lard it with bacon, dredge it well with flour, and fet it before a brifk fire to brown, then put it in a toffing-pan, with a quart of gravy, a few morels and truffles, half116 THE experienced hal^ a lemon, and ftew them half an hour, then . 'ne Jpoonful of catchup, the fauee of brown- ^J-ig and a nttle Chyan, thicken your fauce, and pour it oyer your fricando; lay rot nu them force. nieac oahs, and the yolks of hard eggs. 'lo a-la-mode Beef. TAKE the bone out of a rump of beef, lard the top with bacon, then make a forcemeat of oui ounces of marrow, two heads of garlick, the crumbs of a penny loaf, a few iweet herbs, chopped imall, nutmeg, pepper, and fait to your taite, and the yolks of four eggs well beat, mix it up, and Puff your beef where the bone came out, and in feveral places in the lean part, fkewer it round, and bind it about with a fillet, put it in a pot, with a pint of red wine, and tie it down yv»th Prong paper, bake it in the oven for three hours; when it comes out, if you want to eat it hot, Pam the fat oft the gravy, and add half an ounce of morels, a fpconful of pickled mufh- looms, thicken it with flour and butter, difih up ^our beef and pour on your gravy; lay round it forcemeat balls, and fend it up. To make a Porcupine of the Flat Ribs of Beef. BONE the flat ribs, and beat it half an hour with a pafte-pin, then rub it over with the yolks of eggs, ftrew over it bread crumbs, parfley, leeks, fweet-marjoram, lemon peel fhred fine, nutmeg, pepper, and fait, roll it up very clofe, and bind it hard, lard it acrofs with bacon, then a rowI ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 117 a row of cold boiled tongue, a third row of pickled cucumbers, a fourth row ot lemon peel, do it over in rows as above till it is larded all round, 'it will look like red, green, white, and yellow dices, then fplit it or put it in a deep pot with a pint of water, lay over a caul of veal, to keep it from fcorching, tie it down with ftrong paper, and fend it to the oven; when it comes out fkim off the fat, and drain your gravy into a fauce-pan, add to it two fpoonfuls of red wine, the fame of browning, one of mufhroom catch- up, half a lemon, thicken it with a lump of but- ter rolled in flour, difh up the meat, and pour the gravy on the difh, lay round forcemeat balls ; garnifh with horfe-radifh, and ferve it up. To make Brisket o/'Beef a-la royale. BONE a brifket of beef, and make holes 111 it with a knife, about an inch one from another, fill one hole with fat bacon, a fecond with chop- ped parfley, and a third with chopped oyfters, feafoned with nutmeg, pepper and fait, till you have done the brifket over, then pour a pint of red wine boiling hot upon the beef, dredge it well with flour, fend it to the oven, and bake it three hours or better; when it comes out of the oven take off the fat, and ftrain the gravy over yoyr beef: garnifh with pickles, and ferve it up. Beef Olives. CUT flices off a rump of beef about fix inches long and half an inch thick, beat them withii8 THE EXPERIENCED it with a pafte-pan, and rub them over with the yolk of an egg, a little pepper, fait, and beaten mace, the ci umbs of half a penny loaf, two oun- ces, of marrow diced fine, a handful of parfley chopped fmall, and the out-rind of half a lemon grated, ftrew them all over your fieaks, and roll them up, fkewer them quite clofe, and fet them befor the lue to brown, then put them into a toffing-pan, with a pint of gravy, a fpoonful of catchup, the fame of browning, a tea fpoonful of lemon pickle, thicken it with a little butter rolled in flour: lay round forcemeat balls, mufn- rooms, or the yolks of hard eggs. To make Mock Hare of a Beast’s Heart. WASH a large beaft’s heart clean, and cut off the deaf ears, and fluff it with fome force- meat as you do a hare, lay a caul of veal, or paper over the top, to keep in the fluffing, roaft it either in a cradle fpit or hanging one, it will take an hour and a half before a good fire, bafte it with red wine; when roafted take the wine out of the dripping-pan, and fkim off the fat, and add a glafs more wine; when it is hot put in fome lumps of red currant-jelly, and pour it in the diffi, ferve it up, and fend in red cur- rant-jelly cut in flices on a faucer. j i , , Beast’s Heart larded TAKE a good beaft’s heart, fluff it as before, and lard it all over with little bits of bacon, dullENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 119 it with flour, and cover it with paper, to keep it from being too dry, and fend it to the oven; when baked put the heart on your difh, take off the fat, and flxain the gravy through a hair fieve, put it in a lauce-pan, with one fpoonful of red wine, the fame of browning, and one of lemon pickle, half an ounce of morels, one anchovy cut fmall, a little beaten mace, thicken it with flour and butter, pour it hot on your heart, and ferve it up : garniih with barberries. ToJiezv Ox Palates. •\ WASH four ox palates in feveral waters, and then lay them in warm water for half an hour, then wafh them out and put them in a pot, and tie them down with ftrong paper, and fend them to the oven with as much water as will cover them, or boil them till tender, then fkin them, and cut them in pieces half an inch broad and three inches long, and put them in a toflin^- pan, with a pint of veal gravy, one fpoonful of Madeira wine, the fame of catchup and brown- ing, one onion ftuck with cloves, and a Dice of lemon, flew them half an hour, then take out the onion and lemon, thicken your l'auce, and put them in a difh; have ready boiled artichoke bottoms, cut them in quarters, and lay them over your palates, with forcemeat balls and mo- rels ; garnifh with lemon, and ferve them up. ( ‘ ’ ■, To fricando Ox Palates. WHEN you have wafhed and cleaned your palates as before, cut them in fquare pieces, lard themit I ' : i2o THE EXPERIENCED them with little bits of bacon, fry them In hog s lard, a pretty brown, and put them in a fieve to drain the fat from them, then take bet- ter than half a pint of beef gravy, one fpoonful of led wine, half as much browning, a lit- tle lemon pickle, one anchovy, a fhalot, and a bit of horfe-radifh; give them a boil, and drain your giavy, then put in your palates, and flew them half an hour, make your fauce pretty thick, difh them up, and lay round them dewed fpi- nage, preffed and cut like fippets, and ferve them up. To fricaffee Ox Palates. CLEAN your palates very well as before, put them in a dew-pot, and cover them with water, fet them in the oven for three or four hours ; when they come from the oven drip off the fkins, and cut them in fquare pieces, feafon them with mace, nutmeg, Chyan, and fait; mix a fpoonful of dour with the yolks of two eggs, dip in your palates, and fry them a light brown, then put them in a deve to drain; have ready half a pint of veal gravy, with a little caper liquor, a fpoonful of browning, and a few mufh- rooms, thicken it well with dour and butter, pour it hot on your difh, and lay in your pa- lates ; garnifh with fryed parfley and barberries. To Jlew a Turkey with Cflfry Sauce. TAKE a large turkey, and make a good white forcemeat of veal, and duff the craw of the turkey, fkewer it as for boiling, then boilENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 121 it in i'oft water till it is almoft enough, and then take up your turkey, and put it in a pot, with fome of the water it was boiled in, to keep it hot; put feven or eight heads of celery, that are walked and cleaned very well, into the water that the turkey was boiled in, till they are ten- der, then take them up, and put in your turkey with the breaft down, and dew it a quarter of an hour, then take it up, and thicken your fauce with half a pound of butter and dour to make it pretty thick, and a quarter of a pint of rich cream, then put in your celery; pour the lauce and celery hot upon the turkey’s bread, and lerve it up. It is a proper difh for dinner or fupper. To Jlcvo a Turkey browti. WHEN you have drawn the craw out of your turkey, cut it up the back, and take out the entrails, that the turkey may appear whole, and take all the bones out of the body very carefully; the rump, legs, and wings are to be left whole; then take the crumb of a penny loaf, and chop half a hundred of oyders very frnall, with half a pound of beef marrow, a little lemon peel cut fine, and pepper and fait; mix them well up together, with the yolks of four eggs, and duff your tur- key with it, few it up, and lard it down each fide with bacon, half road it, then put it into a tof- fing-pan with two quarts of - veal gravy, and cover it clofe up; when it has dewed one hour, add a fpoonful of mudiroom catchup, half an anchovy, a dice or two of lemon, a little Chyan pepper, and a bunch of fweet herbs; cover them R clofe122 THE EXPERIENCED dole up again, and Hew it half an hour longer, then take it up and fkim the fat off the gravy, and ftrain it, thicken it with flour and butter, let it boil a lew minutes, and pour it hot upon your turkey; lay round it oyfter patties, and ierve it up. A Turkey a-la-daube, to befint up hot. CU 1 the turkey down the back juft enough to bone it, without 1 polling the look of it, then ftuft it with a nice forcemeat, made of oyfters chopped line, crumbs of bread, pepper, fait, fhalots, a very little thyme, parfley, and butter, fill it as fuil as you like, and lew it up with a thread, tie it up in a clean cloth, and boil it very white, byt not too much. You may lerve it up with oyfter lauce made good, or take the bones with a piece of veal, mutton, and bacon, and make a rich gravy, feafoned with pepper, fait, fhalots, and a little bit of mace, ftrain it off through a lieve, and flew your turkey in it (after it is half boiled) juft half an hour; difh it up in the gravy after it is well fkimmed, ftrained, and thickened with a few mufhrooms ftewed white, or ftewed palates, forcemeat balls, fryed oyfters, or fweetbreads, and pieces of le- mon. Difh it up with the breaft upwards; if you fend it up garnifhed with palates, take care to have them ftewed tender flrft, before you add them to the turkey: you may put a few morels and truffles in your fauce if you like it, but take care to wafh them dean. Turkey123 ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. Turkey a-la-daube, to be fent up cold. BONE the turkey, and feafon it with pepper and fait, then fpread over it fome dices of ham, upon that fome forcemeat, upon that a fowl, boned and feafoned as above, then more ham and forcemeat, then few it up with thread; cover the bottom of the dew-pan with veal and ham, then lay in the turkey the bread down, chop all the bones to pieces, and put them on the tur- key, cover the pan, and fet it on the fire live minutes, then put in as much clear broth as w 11 cover it, let it boil two hours; .when it is more than half done, put in one ounce of ifinglals, and a bundle of herbs. When it is done enough, take out the turkey, and drain the jelly through a hair fieve, fkim oft' ail the fat, and when it is cold lay the turkey upon it the bread down, and cover it with the red ol the jelly; let it dand in fome cold place; when you ferve it up, turn it on the difh it is'to be lerved in: if you pleafe, you may fpread butter over the turkey’s bread, and put fome green par.dey or dowers, or what you pleafe, in what form you like. A Fowls a-la-braifc. SKEWER your fowl as for boiling, with the legs in the body, then lay over it a layer of fat bacon, cut in pretty thin dices, then wrap it round in beet leaves, then in a caul of veal, and put it into a large fauce-pan, with three pints of water, a glafs of Madeira wine, a bunch of fweet herbs, two or three blades of mace, and R 2 half124 the experienced chickens, fhred all thefe together very fine, and I half a lemon, ftew it till quite tender, take it up and fidm off the fat, make your gravy pretty thick with flour and butter, and ftrain it through n hair fieve, and put to it a pint of oyfters, a tea-cup ul of thick cream, keep fhaking your toffing-pan over the fire, and when it has fim- mered a little, ferve up your fowl with the bacon, beet leaves, and caul on, and pour your fauce hot upon it; garnifh with barberries, or red beet root. To force a Fowl. TAKE a large fowl, pick it clean, and cut it down the back, take out the entrails, and take the fkin off whole, cut the flefh from the bones, and chop it with half a pint of oyfters, one ounce of beef marrow, a little pepper and fait, mix it up with cream, then lay the meat on the bones, and draw the fkin over it, and few up the back, then cut large thin flices of bacon, and lay them over the breaft of your fowl, tie the bacon on with packthread in diamonds; it will take an hour roafting by a moderate fire; make a good brown gravy fauce, pour it upon your difh, take the bacon off, and lay in your fowl, and ferve it up ; garnifh with pickles, mufh- rooms, or oyfters.—It is proper for a fide-difh for dinner, or top for fupper. To few Palates and Chickens. TO every palate or chicken take an anchovy, a little pariley and fhalot, with the liver of the . faitENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 125 falt to your tafte, and fluff the birds with it, turn them up fliort as for boiling, tie them in cloths, boil the palates an hour at leaft, the chickens not above fifteen or twenty minutes, in milk and water, with a little fait in it; make the fauce with a little white gravy and white wine, and with it ftew a good many oyfters and fha- lots, beat it up thick with a lump of butter (you may, if you pleafe, leave out the wine, and mix a little cream in the fauce inftead of it) your gravy muft be made of veal; when the chickens are boiled, and the palates are ftewed tender, tofs them up together in the gravy and oyfters, fend them hot to the table, the chickens in the middle, and the palates round them, with a few white balls made of veal; you may add fweetbreads. This is a very good way to ftew a turkey. The water the palates were boiled in will be extremely good to make gravy, adding to it a good piece of veal, mutton, and bacon. To fricajfee Chickens. SKIN them, and cut them in finall pieces, wafh them in warm water, and then dry them very clean with a cloth, feafon them with pepper and fait, and then put them into a ftew-pan, with a little fair water, and" a good piece of butter, a little lemon pickle, or half a lemon, a glafs of white wine, one anchovy, a little mace and nut- meg, an onion ftuck with cloves, a bunch of le- mon, thyme, and fweet-marjoram, let them ftew together till your chickens are tender, and then lay126 THE EXPERIENCED lay them on your difli, thicken your gravy with flour and butter, ftrain it, then beat the yolks of three eggs a little, and mix them with a large tea-cupful of rich cream, and put it in your gravy, and (hake it over the fire, but do not let it boil, and pour it over your chickens. To force Chickens. ROAST your chickens better than half, take off the (kin, then the meat, and chop it fmall with fhred parfley and crumbs of bread, pepper and fait, and a little good cream, then put in the meat, and clofe the fkm, brown it with a fala- mander, and ferve it up with white fauce. To make artificial Chickens or Pigeons. MAKE a rich forcemeat of veal, lamb, or chickens, feafoned with pepper, fait, parfley, a fhalot, a piece of fat bacon, a little butter, and the yolk of an egg; work it up in the fhape of pigeons or chickens, putting the foot of the bird you intend it for in the middle, fo as juft to appear at the bottom, roll the forcemeat very well in the yolk of an egg, then in the crumbs of bread, fend them to the oven, and bake them a light brown, do not let them touch each other, put them on tin plates well buttered, as you fend them to the oven: you may fend them to the table dry, or gravy in the difh, juft as you like. To marinate a Goose. CUT your goofe up the back bone, then take out all the bones, and fluff it with forcemeat, andENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 127 and lew up the back again, fry the goofe a good brown, then put it into a deep ftew-pan, with two quarts of good gravy, and cover it clofe, and ftew it two hours, then take it out and Ikim off the fat, add a large fpoonful of lemon pickle, one of browning, and one of red wine, one anchovy Ihred fine, beaten mace, pepper, and fait to your palate, thicken it with flour and butter, boil it a little, dilh up your gooie, and llrain your gravy over it.— N. B. Make your fluffing thus : take ten or twelve fage leaves, two large onions, two or three large (harp apples, flared them very fine, mix them with the crumbs of a penny loaf, four ounces of beef marrow, one glals of red wine, half a nutmeg grated, pepper, fait, and a little lemon peel Ihred l'mall, make a light fluffing with the yolks of four eggs; obferve to make it one hour before you want it. To Jlezv Ducks. TAKE three young ducks, lard them down each fide the breaft, duft them with flour, and let them before the fire to brown, then put them in a ftew-pan, with a quart of water, a pint of red wine, one fpoonful of walnut catchup, the fame of browning, one anchovy, half a lemon, a clove of garlick, a bundle of fweet herbs, Chyan pepper to your tafte, let them ftew flowly for half an hour, or till they are tender, lay them on a diffi to keep them hot, fkim off the fat, ftrain your gravy through a hair fieve, add to it a few morels and truffles, boil it quick till reduced to little more than half a pint, pour it over your ducks,i2S THE EXPERIENCED I clucks, and ferve it up. It is proper for a fide-difh for dinner, or bottom for fupper. ToJlczv Ducks with Green Peas. EIALF road; your ducks, then put them into a ftew-pan, with a pint of good gravy, a little mint, and three or four fage leaves chopped fmall, cover them clofe, and flew them half an hour, boil a pint of green peas as for eating, and put them in after you have thickened the gravy* difh up your ducks, and pour the gravy and peas over them. Ducks a-la-braife. DR.ESS and finge your ducks, lard them quite through with, bacon rolled in hired par- iley, thyme, onions, beaten mace, cloves, pepper, and fait, put in the bottom of a ftew-pan a few fiices of fat bacon, the fame of ham or gammon cf bacon, two or three dices of veal or beef, lay your ducks in with the bread; down, and cover the ducks with flices the fame as put under them, cut in a carrot or two, a turnip, one onion, a I ead of celery, a blade of mace, four or five doves, a little whole pepper, cover them clofe down, and let them fimmer a little over a gentle fiove till the bread; is a light brown, then put lome broth or water, cover them clofe down again• as you can, flew them gently betwixt two and three hours till enough, then take parfley, onion, or flialot, two anchovies, a few gherkins or capers, chop them all very fine, put them in a ftew-pan with part of the liquor from the ducks, a little browning, and the juice of half a lemon, boil itENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 129 it up, and cut the ends of the bacon even with the breail of your ducks, lay them on your dilh, pour the fauce hot upon them, and ferve them up; fome put gar lick inftead of onions. Ducks a-la-mode. SLIT two ducks down the back, and bone them carefully, make a forcemeat of the crumbs of a penny loaf, four ounces of fat bacon fcraped, a little parfley, thyme, lemon peel, two fhalots or onions ihred very fine, with pepper, fait, and nutmeg to your tafte, and two eggs, fluff your ducks with it and few it up, lard them down each fide of the bread; with bacon, dredge them •well with flour, and put them in a Dutch oven to brown, then put them into a ftew-pan, with three pints of gravy, a glafs of red wine, a tea- fpoonfuf of lemon pickle, a large one of walnut and mufhroom catchup, one of browning, and one anchovy, with Chyan pepper to your tafte; flew them gently over a flow fire for an hour ; when enough, thicken your gravy, and put in a few truffles and morels, ftrain your gravy and pour it upon them. You may a-la-mode a goofe the fame way. Pigeons compote. TAKE fix young pigeons, and fkewer them as you do for boiling, put forcemeat into the craws, lard them down the breaft, and fry them frown, then put them into a ftrong brown gravy, and let them flew three quarters of an hour, thicken it with a lump of butter rolled in flour, S when13° the experienced when you difh them up, lay forcemeat balls round them, and ftram the gravy over them. The forcemeat muft be made thus: grate the crumbs of half a penny loaf, and fcrape a quar- ter of a pound of fat bacon, inftead of fuet, chop a little parfley, thyme, two fhalots or an onion, grate a little nutmeg, lemon peel, fome pepper, and fait, mix them all up with eggs.—»—It is proper for a top-difh for a lecond courfe, or a fide- difh for the firff. Pigeons in a hole. PICK, draw, and wafh your young pigeons, flick their legs in their belly, as you do boiled pigeons, leafon them with pepper, fait, and beaten mace, put into the belly of every pigeon a lump of butter the fize of a walnut, lay your pigeons in a pie-difh, pour over them a batter made of three eggs, two fpoonfuls of flour, and half a pint of good milk, bake it in a moderate oven, and ferve them to table in the fame difh. Pigeons tranfmogrified. PICK and clean fix fmall young pigeons, but do not cut off their heads, cut off their pi- nions, and boil them ten minutes in water, then cut off the ends of fix large cucumbers, and fcrape out the feeds, put in your pigeons, but let the heads be out at the ends of the cucumbers, and flick a bunch of barberries in their bills, and then put them in a toffing-pan, with a pint of veal gravy, a little anchovy, a glafs of red wine, a fpoonful of browning, a little flice of lemon, ChyanENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 131 jChyan and fait to your tafte, few them feven minutes, take them out, thicken your gravy with a little butter rolled in flour, boil it up, and flrain it over your pigeons, and ferve them up. To broil Pigeons. TAKE your pigeons, pick and draw them, fplit them clown the back, and feafon them with pepper and fait, lay them on the grid-iron with the bread: upward, then turn them, but be care- ful you do not burn the fkin; rub them over with butter, and keep turning them till they are enough, difh them up, and lay round them crilped parfley, and pour over them melted butter or gravy, which you pleafe, and fend them up. To boil Pigeons in Rice. WHEN you have picked and drawn your, pigeons, turn the legs under the wings, and cut oh the pinions, then lay over every pigeon thin flices of bacon, and a large beet leaf, wrap them in clean cloths feparately, and boil them till enough; have ready four ounces of rice boiled loft, and put into a fleve to drain; put the rice into a little good veal gravy thickened with flour c,nd butter, boil your rice a little in the gravy, and add two fpoonfuls of good cream; take your pigeons out of the cloths, and leave on the ba- con and beet leaves, pour the rice over them, and ferve them up. S 2 ToI32 THE EXPERIENCED To fricando Pigeons. PICK, draw, and wafh -^our pigeons very clean, fluff the craws, and lard them down the fides of the breaft, fry them in butter a fine brown, and then put them into a toffing-pan, wriih a quart of gravy; flew them till they are tender, then take off the fat, and put in a tea- fpoonful of lemon pickle, a large fpoonful of browning, the fame of walnut catchup, a little Chyan and fait, thicken your gravy, and add half an ounce of morels, and four yolks of hard eggs; lay the pigeons in your diffi, and put the morels and eggs round them, and ftrain your fauce over them.— Garnifh with barberries and lemon peel, and ferve them up. Jugged Pigeons. TAKE fix pigeons, pluck and draw them, wafh them clean, and dry them with a cloth, feafon them with beaten mace, white pepper, and l'alt, put them in a jug, and put half a pound of butter upon them, flop up your jug clofe with a cloth, that no fleam can get out, let it in a kettle of boiling water, and let it boil one hour and a half, then take out your pigeons, and put the gravy that is come from the pigeons into a pan, and put to it one fpoonful of wine, one of catchup, a flice of lemon, half an an- chovy chopped fmall, and a bundle of fvveet herbs, boil it a little, thicken it with a little butter rolled in flour, lay your pigeons on the difh, and ftrain the gravy on them; garnifh with parfleyENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 133 parfley and red caboage, and lervt, tnem up 5 you may lay mufnrooms or forcemeat balls. — It is a pretty fide or corner-difh. . v Boiled Pigeons and B A c o N. TAKE fix young pigeons, wafh them clean as before, turn their legs under their wings, boil them in milk and water by themlelves twenty minutes, have ready boiled a icjuare piece of bacon, take off the fkm and brown it, put the bacon in the middle of your dilh, and lay the pigeons round it, and lumps of ftewed fpinage; pour plain melted butter over them, and fend parfley and butter in a boat. 1 Pigeons fricajfec* CUT your pigeons as you would do chick- ens for fricaflee, fry them a light brown, then put them into fome good mutton gravy, and Hew them near half an hour, and then put in half an ounce of morels, a fpoonful of brown- ing, and a flice of lemon, take up your pigeons, and thicken your gravy, ftrain it over your pi-» geons, and lay round them forcemeat balls. Garnilh with pickles. Partridges in Panes. • ' ‘ 1 HALF roaft two partridges, and take the flefh from them, and mix it with the crumb's of a penny loaf ffeeped in rich gravy, fix ounces of beef marrow, or half a pound of tat bacon feraped,- ten morels boiled foft and cut fmall, two artichoke bottoms boiled, and fhred fmall, the .*34 THE EXPERIENCED the yolks °f three eggs, pepper, fait, nutmeg, and inred lemon peel to your palate, work them together, and bake them in moulds the diape of an egg, and ferve them up cold or in jelly. Garnilh with curled parfiey. To J}civ Partridgfs. TRUSS your partridges as for roading, Ruff the craws, and lard them down each fide of the bread:, tnen roll a lump of butter in pepper, fait, and beaten mace, and put it into the bellies, few tip the vents, di edge them well, and fry them a light biOvvn, then put them into a dew-pan, with a quart of good gravy, a fpoonful of Ma- deira wine, the fame of mulhroom catchup, a tea-fpoonful of lemon pickle, and half the quantity of mufhroom powder, one anchovy, half a lemon, a fpng of lweet-marjoram, cover the pan clofe, and dew them half an hour, then take them out, and tnicken the gravy, boil it a little, and pour it over the partridges, and lay round them artichoke bottoms boiled and cut in quarters, and the yolks of four hard eggs, if agreeable. To JIcw Partridges a fecond Way. TAKE three partridges when dreffed, {Inge them, blanch and beat three ounces of almonds, and grate the fame quantity of dne white bread, chop three anchovies, mix them with fix ounces of butter, duff the partridges, and few them up at both ends, trufs them, and w*rap dices of fat bacon round them, half road them, then take oneENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 135 one and pull the meat off the breaft, and beat it in a marble mortar, with the forcemeat it was fluffed with; have ready a ftrong gravy made of ham and veal, ftrain it into a ftew-pan, then take the bacon off the other two, wipe them clean, and put them into the gravy, with a good deal of fhalots, let them flew till tender, then take them out, and boil the gravy till it is alrnoft as thick as bread fauce, then add to it a glafs of fweet oil, the fame of Champagne, and the juice of a China orange; put your partridges in, and make them hot.—Garnifh with llices of bacon and lemon. T<yJlcw a Hare. WHEN you have paunched and cafed your hare, cut her as for eating, put her into a large fauce-pan, with three pints of beef gravy, a pint of red wine, a large onion ftuck with cloves, a bundle of winter lavory, a flice of horfe-radifh, two blades of beaten mace, one anchpvy, a fpoonful of walnut or mum catchup, one of browning, half a lemon, Chyan and fait to your tafte; put on a clofe cover, and fet it over a gentle fire, and flew it for two hours, then take it up into a foup-difh, and thicken your gravy with a lump of butter rolled in flour; boil it a little, and ftrain it over your hare.—Garnifli with le- mon peel cut like ftraws, and ferve it up. To jug a Hare. CUT the hare as for eating, feafon it with pepper, fait, and beaten mace ; put it into a jug or136 the Experienced or pitcher, with a clofe top, put to it a bundle of fweet herbs, and fet it in a kettle of boiling water, let it hand till it is tender, then take it up, and pour the gravy into a tofiing-pan, with a glafs of red wine, one anchovy, a large onion ftuck with cloves, a little beaten mace, and Chyan pepper to your tafte; boil it a little and thicken it: dilh up your hare, and Pcrain the gravy over it, then fend it up. To jlorendine a Hare*. TAKE a grown hare, and let her hang up four or five days, then cafe her, and leave on the ears, and take out all the bones except the head, which muff be left on whole, lay your hare flat on the table, and lay over the inflde a forcemeat, and then roll it up to the head, fkewer it with the head and ears leaning back, tie it with pack- thread, as you would a collar of veal, wrap it in a cloth, and boil it an hour and a half in a fauce- pan, with a cover on it, with two quarts of water; when your liquor is reduced to one quart put in a pint of red wine, a fpoonful of lemon pickle, and one of catchup, the fame of brown- ing, and flew it till it is reduced to a pint, thicken it with butter rolled in flour, lay round your hare a few morels, and four flices of forcemeat, boiled in a caul of a leg of veal: when you difh it up, draw the jaw-bones, and flick them in the eyes for horns, let the ears lie back on the roll, . and flick a fprig of myrtle in the mouth, ftrain over your fauce, and ferve it up: garnifh with barberries and parfley.— Forcemeat for the hare.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 137 hare :—take the crumbs of a penny loaf, the liver fhred fine, half a pound of fat bacon fcraped, a glafs of red wine, one anchovy, two eggs, a little winter favory, fweet-marjoram, lemon, thyme, pepper, fait, and nutmeg to your tafte. To hodge-podge a Hare. CUT the hare in pieces, as you do for Hew- ing, and put it into a pitcher, with two or three onions, fome fait, and a little pepper, a bunch of fweet herbs, and a piece of butter: flop the pitcher very clofe, that no fleam may get out, let it in a kettleful of boiling water, keep the kettle filled up as the water wafles, let it flew four or five hours at lead. You may, when you firft put the hare into the kettle, put in lettuce, cucumbers, celery, and turnips, if you like it better* To florendine R abb ITS. Ti\KE three young rabbits, {kin them, but leave on the ears, wadi and dry them with a cloth, take out the bones carefully, leaving the head whole, then lay them flat, make a force- meat of a quarter of a pound of bacon fcraped, it anfwers better than fuet, it makes the rabbits eat tender and whiter; add to the bacon the crumbs of a penny loaf, a little lemon, thyme, or lemon peel fhred fine, parfley chopped fmall, nutmeg, Chyan and fait to your palate; mix them up together with an egg, and fpread it over the rabbits, roll them up to the head, fkewer them .flraight, and clofe the ends, to prevent the force- T meatI 13S T«IIE EXPERIENCED meat from coming out, fkewer the ears back, and tie them in leparate cloths, and boil them half an hour; when you difh them up take out the jaw-bones, and flick them in the eyes for ears, put round them forcemeat balls and mufh- rooms, have ready a white lauce made of veal gravy, a little anchovy, the juice of half a le- pion, or a tea-fpoonful of lemon pickle, drain it, take a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in dour, fo as to make the lauce pretty thick, keep ftirring it whilft the dour is diffolving, beat the yolk of an egg, put to it fome thick cream, nutmeg, and fait, mix it with the gravy, and let it dimmer a little over the dre, but not boil, for it will curdle the cream; pour it over the rabbits, and ferve them up. Rabbits furprifed, TAKE young rabbits, fkewer them, and put the fame pudding as for the roafted rabbits, when they are roaded draw out the jaw-bones and dick them in the eyes, to appear like horns, then take off all the meat of the back clean from the bones, but leave them whole, chop the meat exceeding dne, with a little fhred parfley, lemon peel, one ounce of beef marrow, a fpoonful of good cream, and a little fait, beat the yolks of two hard eggs, and a piece of butter the lize of a walnut, in a marble mortar, very dne, then mix all together, and put it in a toffmg-pan, when it has ftewed bve minutes, lay it on the rabbit when you take the meat off and put it clofe down with your hand, to appear like a wholeENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 139 whole rabbit, then heat a falamander, and brown it all over, pour a good brown gravy made as thick as 'cream in the difli, dick a bunch ot myrtle in their mouths, and ferve them up with their livers broiled and frothed. To fricaffee Rabbits brown. CUT your rabbits as for eating, fry then}, in butter a light brown, put them in a toffing- pan, with a pint of water, a tea-fpoonful ot Jemon pickle, a large fpoonful of mulhroam catchup, the fame of browning, one anchovy, a flice of lemon, Chyan pepper and fait to your tade, ftew them over a flow fire till they'are enough; thicken your gravy, and drain it, difh up your rabbits, and pour the gravy over them. To fricaffee Rabbits white. CUT your rabbits as before, and put them into a toffing-pan, with a pint of veal gravy, a tea-fpoonful of lemon pickle, one anchovy, a flice of lemon, a little beaten mace, Chyan pep- per and fait, llew them over a flow fire, when they are enough, thicken your gravy with Hour and butter, drain it, then add the yolks of two eggs mixed with a large tea-cupful of thick •cream, and a little nutmeg grated in it, do not let it boil, and ferve it up. To make a nice Whet before Dinner. CUT fome dices of bread half an inch thick, fry them in butter, but not too hard, then fplit T 2 fomei4° THE experienced fome anchovies, take out the bones, and lay half an anchovy on each piece of bread, have ready fome Chefhire cheefe grated, and fome chopped parfley mixed together, lay it pretty thick over the bread and anchovy, bafte it with butter, and brown it with a lalamander: it mu ft be done on the difh on which you fend it to table. * ^ fine Ilarico, by Flay of Soup. GET a large neck of mutton, cut it in two parts', put the lerag part into a ftew-pan, with lour large turnips and four carrots in a gallon of water, let it boil gently over a flow fire till all the goodnefs is out of the meat, but not boiled to pieces, then bruife the turnips and two of the carrots line into the foup, by wray pf thickening it, cut and fry fix onions in nice butter, and put them in, then cut the other part of the mutton in very good chops, not too large, fry them in butter, and put them to the foup, and let it flew very flow till the chops are very ten- der, cut the other two carrots that were boiled into any fhape, and put them in juft before you take it off the fire, and feafon it to your tafte with pepper and fait, and ferve it up very hot in a foup-difh. A Harico of Mutton or Lamb. CUT a neck or loin of mutton or lamb in nice fteaks, and fry them a light brown, have ready fome good gravy made of the fcrag of the mutton and fome veal, with a piece of lean bacon and a few capers, feafon to your tafte with \ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 141 with pepper, fait, thyme, and onions, which muft be ftrained off, and added to the fteaks, juft one hour before you fend them to the table; take care to do it on a flow lire, difti them up handfomely, with turnips and carrots cut in dice, with a good deal of gravy, thickened with a piece of butter rolled in a very little flour; if they are not tender they will not be good. Send them up very hot. To banco a Neck of Mutt on a fecond Way, TAKE a neck of mutton and cut it into chops, flour them, and put them into a ftew- pan, let them over the Are, and keep turning them till brown, then take them out, and put a little more into the fame pan, and keep it ftir- ring till brown over the fire, with a bunch of fweet herbs, a bay leaf, an onion, and wThat other fpice you pleafe; boil them well together, and then ftrain the broth through a fieve into an earthen pan by itfelf, and fkim the fat off, which done, is a good gravy, then add turnips and carrots, with two finall onions, a little celery, then place your mutton in a ftew-pan, with the celery and other roots, then put the gravy to them, and as much water as will cover them; keep it over a gentle fire till ready to fervg up. A Hodge-podge of Mutton. CUT a neck or loin of mutton into fteaks, take off all the fat, then put the fteaks into a pitcher, with lettuce, turnips, carrots, two cucumbersH2 THE EXPERIENCED cucumbers cut in quarters, four or five onions, and pepper and fait; you mud not put any water to it, and flop the pitcher very clofe, then fet it in a pan of boiling water, let it boil four hours; keep the pan fupplied with frelh boiling water as it waftes. To drefs Cucumbers •with Eggs. TAKE fix large young cucumbers, pare, quarter, and cut them into fquares, about the iize of a dice, put them into boiling water, let them boil up, and take them out of the water, and put them into a ftew-pan, with an onion, duck with cloves, a good flice of ham, a quar- tern of butter, and a little fait, fet it over the lire a quarter of an hour, keep it clofe covered, leum it well, and fhake it often, as it is apt to burn; then dredge in a little flour over them, and put in as much veal gravy as will juft cover the cucumbers, and ftir it well together, and keep a gentle fire under it till no fcum will rife; then take out the ham and onion, and put in the yolks of two eggs beat up with a tea-cupful of good cream; ftir it well for a minute, then take it off the fire, and juft before you put it in the difh fqueeze in a little lemon juice; have ready five or fix poached eggs to lay on the top. To Jleiv Peas. TAKE a quart of young peas, wafh them, and put them into a ftew-pan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, three cabbage lettuces cut finall, five or fix young onions, with a little thyme, iENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 143 thyme, parfley, pepper, and fait, and let them, ftew all together for a quarter of an hour, then put to them a pint of gravy, with two or three llices of bacon or ham, and let them ftew all together till the peas are enough', then thicken them up with a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in flour. To fricajfee Mushrooms. PEEL and fcrap the infide of the mufti- rooms, throw them into fait and water, if but- tons, rub them with flannel, take them out, and boil them with frefh fait and water, when they are tender put in a little ftired parfley, an onion ftuck with cloves, tofs them up with a good lump of butter rolled in a little flour; you may put in three fpoonfuls of thick cream, and a lit- tle nutmeg cut in pieces, but take care to take out the nutmeg and onion before you ferve it to table: you may leave out the parfley, and ftew in a glafs of wine if you like it. CHAP. V. Obfcrvatlons o?i Pies. RAISED pies fhould have a quick oven, and well clofed up, or your pie will fall in the iides; it fhould have no water put in till the minute it goes to the oven, it makes the cruft fad,I44 THE EXPERIENCE!? lad, and is a great hazard of the pie running, Light pafte requires a moderate oven, but not too flow, it will make it fad, and a quick oven will catch and burn it, and not give it time to rile; tarts that are iced require a flow oven, or the icing will be brown, and the pafte not be near baked. Thefe fort of tarts ought to be made of fugar pafte, and rolled very thin. * To make crifp Paste for Tarts. TAKE one pound of fine flour mixed with one ounce of loaf fugar beat and fifted, make it into a ftiil pafte, with a gill of boiling cream, and three ounces of butter in it, work it well, roll it very thin; when you have made your tarts, beat the white of an egg a little, rub it over them with a feather, fift a little double-refined fugar over them, and bake them in a moderate oven. Icing a fee on d Way* BEAT the white of an egg to a ftrong froth, put in by degrees four ounces of double-refined iugar, with as much gum as will lie on a fix- pence, beat and fifted fine, beat it half an hour, then lay it over your tarts the thicknefs of a ftraw. To make a light Paste for Tarts. TAKE one pound of fine flour, beat the white of an egg to a ftrong froth, mix it with as much water as will make three quarters of a poundENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 145 pound of flour into pretty ftiff pafte, roll it out very thin, lay the third part of half a pound of butter in thin pieces, dredge it with part ot the quarter of your flour left out for that pur- pofe, roll it up tight, then with your pafte-pin roll it out again, do fo until all your half pound of butter and flour is done, cut it in fquare pieces, and make your tarts; it requires a quicket oven than crifp pafte; l 1 / To make an Apple Tarts SCALD eight or ten large codlins, wheri cold fkin them, take the pulp, and beat is as fine as you can with a filver fpoon, then mix the yolks of fix eggs and the whites of four, beat all together as fine as poflible, put in grated nut- meg and fugar to your tafte, melt fome fine frefli butter, and beat it till it is like a fine thick cream, then make a fine puff pafte, and cover a tin petty-pan with it, and pour in the ingre- dients, but do not cover it with the pafte; bake it a quarter of an hour, then flip it out of the petty-pan on a difh, and ftrew fine fugar, finely beat and fifted, all over it. To make Paste for a Goose Pie. TAKE eighteen pounds of fine flour, put fix pounds of frefli butter, and one pound of ren- dered beef fuet in a kettle of water, boil it two or three minutes, then pour it boiling hot upon, your flour, work it well into a pretty ftiff pafte, pull it in lumps to cool, and raife your pie, bake U146 THE EXPERIENCED it in a hot oven; you may make any raifed pie the fame way, only take a lmaller quantity in proportion. To make a cold Paste for Dish Pies. TAKE a pound of fine flour, rub into it half a pound of butter, beat the yolks of two eggs, put them into as much water as will make it a ftifl pafte, roll it out, then put your butter on in thin pieces, duft it with flour, roll it up tight, when you have done it fo for three times, roll it out pretty thin, and bake it in a quick oven. To make Paste for Custards. PUT half a pound of butter in a pan of water, take two pounds of flour, when your but- ter boils pour it on your flour, with as much water as will make it into a good pafte, work it well, and when it has cooled a little raife your cuftards, put a paper round the infide of them, when they are half baked fill them.—When you make any kind of dripping pafte, boil it four or five minutes in a good quantity of water, to take the ftrength off it; when you make a cold cruft with fuet, fhred it fine, pour part of it into the flour, then make it into a pafte, and roll it out as before (only ftrew in it fuet inftead of butter). To make a French Pie. TO two pounds qf flour put three quarters of a pound of butter, make it into a pafte, and raifeENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 147 raife the walls of the pie, then roll out fome pafte thin, as for a lid, cut it into vine leaves, or the figures of any moulds you have; if you have no moulds, you may make ule of a crocran, and pick out pretty fhapes, beat the yolks of two eggs, and rub the outfide of the walls of the pie with it, and lay the vine leaves or fhapes round the walls, and rub them over with the eggs, fill the pie with the bones of the meat, to keep the fleam in, that the cruft may be well foaked; it is to go to table without a lid. Take a calf’s head, wafh and clean it well, boil it half an hour, when it is cold cut it in thin dices, and put it in a toding-pan, with three pints of veal gravy, and three fweet-breads cut thin, and let it flew one hour, with half an ounce of morels, and half an ounce of truffles, then have ready two calves feet boiled and boned, cut them in fmall pieces, and put them into your toding-pan, with a fpoonful of lemon pickle and one of browning, Chyan pepper, and a little fait; when the meat is tender, thicken the gravy a little with flour and butter, drain it, and put in a few pickled mufhrboms, but frefh ones if you can get them ; put the meat into the pie you took the bones out, and lay the niceft part at the top, have ready a quarter of an hun- dred of afparagus heads, drew them over the top of the pie, and ferve it up. j U 2 A York*148 the experienced A Torkjhire Goose-Pie. TAKE a large fat goofe, fplit it down the back, and take all the bones out, bone a turkey and two ducks the fame way, feafon them very well with pepper and fait, with fix woodcocks, lay the goofe down on a clean difh, with the fkin-fide down, and lay the turkey into the goofe with the {kin down, have ready a large hare cleaned well, cut in pieces, and ftewed in the oven, with a pound of butter, a quarter of an ounce of mace beat fine, the fame of white pepper, and fait to your tafte, till the meat will leave the bones, and fcum the butter off the gravy, pick the meat clean off, and beat it in a marble mortar very fine, with the butter you took off, and lay it in the turkey; take twenty-four pounds of the fineft flour, fix pounds of butter, half a pound of frefh rendered fuet, make the pafte pretty thick, and raife the pie oval, roll out a lump of pafie, and cut it in vine leaves, or what form you pleale; rub the pie with the yolks of eggs, and put your ornaments on the walls, then turn the hare, turkey, and goofe, upfide- down, and lay them in your pie, with the ducks at each end, and the woodcocks on the fides, make your lid pretty thick and put it on; you may lay flowers, or the fhape of the fowles in pafte, on the lid, and make a hole in the mid- dle of your lid; the walls of the pie are to be one inch and a half higher than the lid, then rub it all over with the yolks of eggs, and bind it round with three-fold paper, and lay the fame v overENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 149 over the top.; it will take four hours baking in a brown-bread oven; when it comes out, melt two pounds of butter in the gravy that comes from the hare, and pour it hot in the pie thiough a tun-difh, dole it well up, and let it be eight or ten days before you cut it; if you fend it any diihmce, make up the hole in the middle with cold butter, to prevent the air from getting in. A Hare Pie. CUT a large hare in pieces, feafon it well with mace, nutmeg, pepper, and fait, put it 111 a jug, with half a pound of butter, cover it dole up with a pafte or doth, fet it in a copper of boiling water, and let it flew one hour and 4 half, then take it out to cool, and make a rich forcemeat of a quarter of a pound of fcraped bacon, two onions, a glafs of red wine, the crumb of a penny loaf, a little winter favory, the liver cut fmall, a little nutmeg, feafon it high with pepper and fait, mix it well up with the yolks of three eggs, raiie the pie, and lay the forcemeat in the bottom, lay in the hare, with the gravy that came out of it, lay the lid on, and put flowers or leaves on it ; it will take an hour and a half to bake it.—It is a handfomd fide-difh for a large table. A Salmon Pie. BOIL your falmon as for eating, take off the {kin, and all the bones out, and pound the meat in a mortar very fine, with mace, nutmeg, pep- per, and fait, to your tafte, raife the pie, and put flowers or leaves on the walls, put the falmon in, and*5° the experienced anti Ild lt? bake an hour and a half, when it comes out of the oven take off the lid, and put in lour ounces of rich melted butter, cut a lemon in dices, and lay over it, ftick in two or three leaves of fennel, and fend it to table with- out a lid. 4 Beef Steak Pie. BEA E five or fix rump-fteaks very well with a pafte-pin, and feafon them well with pepper and faft, lay a good puff pafte round the difh, and put a little water in the bottom, then lay the fteaks in, with a lump of butter upon every fteak, and put on the lid; cut a little pafte in what form you pleafe, and lay it on. ^Thatched House Pie. TAKE an earthen difh that is pretty deep, rub the infide with two ounces of butter, then fpread over it two ounces of vermicelli, make a good puff pafte, and roll it pretty thick, and lay it on the difh; take three or four pigeons, feafon them very well with pepper and fait, and put a good lump of butter in them, and lay them in the difh with the bread; down, and put a thick lid over them, and bake it in a moderate oven; when enough take the difh you intend for it, and turn the pie into it, and the vermi- celli will appear like thatch, which gives it the name of thatched-houfe pie. It is a pretty fide or corner-difh for a large dinner, or a bot- tom for flipper. Egg iENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 15* Egg and Bacon Pie to eat cold. STEEP a few thin flices of bacon all night in water, to take out the fait, lay your bacon in the difh, beat eight eggs, with a pint of thick cream, put in a little pepper and fait, and pour it on the bacon, lay over it a good cold pafte, bake it a day before you want it in a moderate oven. A Calf’s Head Pie. PARBOIL a calf’s head, when cold cut it in % pieces, feafon it well with pepper and lalt, put it in a railed cruft, with half a pint of ftrong gravy, bake it an hour and a half, when it comes out of the oven, cut off the lid, and chop the yolks of three hard eggs fmall, ftrew them over the top of the pie, and lay three or four flices of lemon, and pour on fome good melted but- ter, and fend it to table without a lid. A favoury Chicken Pie. LET your chickens be fmall, feafon them with mace, pepper, and fait, put a lump of but- ter into every one of them, lay them in a difli, with the breafts up, and lay a thin flice of bacon over them, it will give them a pleafant flavour, then put in a pint of ftrong gravy, and make a good puff pafte, lid it, and bake it in a moderate oven: French cooks generally put morels and yolks of eggs chopped fmall. A Mincethe experienced I \2 A Mince Pie. BOIE a neat’s tongue two hours, then {kin it, and chop it as fmall as poffible, chop very iinall three pounds of frefh beef fuet, three pounds of good baking apples, four pounds of currants clean wafhed, picked, and well dried before the fire, one pound of jar railins floned, and chopped fmall, and one pound of powder fugar, mix them all together, with half an ounce of mace, the fame of nutmeg grated, cloves and cinnamon a quarter of an ounce of each, and one pint of French brandy, and make a rich puff pafte; as you fill the pie up, put in a little candied citron and orange cut in fmall pieces; what you have to fpare put clofe down in a pot and cover it up, put no citron or orange in till you ufe it. To make a Mince Pie without Meat. CHOP fine three pounds of fuet, and three pounds of apples, when pared and cored, wafh and dry three pounds of currants, ftone and chop one pound of jar raifins, beat and lift one pound and a half of loaf fugar, cut fmall twelve ounces of candied orange peel, and fix ounces of citron, mix all well together, with a quarter of an ounce of nutmeg, half a quarter of an ounce of cin- namon, fix or eight cloves, and half a pint of French brandy, pot it clofe, and keep it for life. A Cod-ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 153 A Codling Pie. GATHER fmall codlings, put them in a clean brafs pan with fpring water, lay vine leaves on them, and cover them with a cloth wrapped round the cover of the pan to. keep in the fleam; when they grow foftifh, peel off the fkin, and put them in the fame water with the vine leaves, hang them a great height over the fire to green, when you fee them a fine green, take them out of the water, and put them in a deep difh, with as much powder or loaf fugar as will fweeten them, make the lid of rich puff pafle, and bake it; when it comes from the oven, take off the lid, and cut it in pieces like fippets, and flick them round the infide of the pie with the points upward, pour over your codlings a good cuflard made thus : Boil a pint of cream, with a flick of cinnamon, and lugar enough to 'make it a little fweet, let it Hand till cold, then put in the yolks of four eggs well beaten, fet it on the fire, and keep flirring it till it grows thick, but do not let it boil, left it curdle, then pour it into your pie, pare a little lemon thin, cut the peel like ftraws, and lay it on your cod- lings over the top. Herb Pie for Lent. TAKE lettuce, leeks, fpinage, beets, and parfley, of each a handful, give them a boil, then chop them fmall, and have ready boiled in a cloth one quart of groats, with two or three onions in them, put them in a frying-pan with the herbs, X andIJ4 the experienced and a good deal of fait, a pound of butter, and a few apples cut thin, flew them a few minutes over the fire, fill your difh or railed cruft with it; one hour will bake it, then ferve it up. A Venison Pasty. BONE a breaft or fhoulder of venifon, feafon it well with mace, pepper, and fait, lay it in a deep pot, with the bell part of a neck of mutton cut in Dices, and laid over the venifon, pour ina large glals of red wine, put a coarfe pafte over it, and bake it two hours in an oven, then lay the venifon in a difh, and pour the gravy over it, and put one pound of butter over it; make a good puff pafte, and lay it near half an inch thick round the edge of the difh, roll out the lid, which mull be a little thicker than the pafte on the edge of the difh, and lay it on, then roll out another lid pretty thin, and cut in flowers, leaves, or whatever form you pleafe, and lay it on the lid; if you do not want it, it will keep in the pot it was baked in eight or ten days, but keep the cruft on, to prevent the air from getting into it. A breaft and fhoulder of venifon is the moft proper for a pafty. An Hottentot Pie. BOIL and bone two calf’s feet, clean very well a calf’s chitterling, boil it and chop it fmall, take two chickens and cut them up as for eat- ing, put them in a ftew-pan, with two fweet- breads, a quart of veal or mutton gravy, half an ounce of morels, Chyan pepper and fait to your palate.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 155 palate, ftew them all together an hour over a, gentle lire, then put in fix forcemeat balls that have been boiled, and the yolks of four hard eggs, and put them in a good railed cruft that has been baked for it, ftrew over the top of your pic a few green peas boiled as for eating; or peel and cut fome young green brocoli ftalks about the frze of peas, give them a gentle boil, and ftrew them over the top of your pie, and fend it up hot without a lid, the fame way as the French pie, A Bride’s Pie. BOIL two calf’s feet, pick the meat from the bones, and chop it very fine, Hired fmall one pound of beef fiiet and a pound of apples, walh and pick one pound of currants very fmall, dry them before the fire, ftone and chop a quarter of a pound of jar raifins, a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, the fame of mace or nutmeg, two ounces of candied citron, two ounces of candied lemon cut thin, a glafs of brandy, and one ot Champagne, put them in a China difh with a rich puff pafte over it, roll another lid, and cut it in leaves, flowers, figures, and put a glafs ring in it. / An Eel Pie, SKIN and walh your eels very clean, cut them in pieces an inch and a half long, feafon them with pepper, fait, and a little dried fage rubbed fmall, raife your pies about the lize of the infide of a plate, fill your pies with eels, X a lay156 the experienced lay a lid over them, and bake them in a quick oven: they require to be well baked. To make a Lobster Pie. TAKE two or three good frefh lobflers, take out all the meat and cut it in large pieces, put a fine puff pafte round the edge of your difh, then put in a layer of lobfters, and a layer of oyfters, with bread crumbs and flices of but- ter, a little pepper and lalt, then a layer of lob- ffers, &c. till your difh is full, then take the red part of the lobfter, pound it fine, with chopped oyfters, crumbs of bread, and a little butter; make them into fmall balls, and fry them, then lay them upon the top of your pie; boil the fhells of your oyfters to make a little gravy, put to it a little pepper and fait and the oyfter liquor, ftrain it through a lieve, and fill your pie with it, then lay on your cruft, and ftick a few fmall claws in the middle of your pie, and fend it to the oven.—It is a genteel corner-difh for dinner, A Yorkjhire Giblet Pie. WHILST the blood of your goofe is warm, put in a tea-cupful of groats to fwell, grate the crumb of a penny loaf, and pour a gill of boil- ing milk on them, fhred half a pound of beef fuet very fine, chop two leeks, and four or five leaves of fage fmall, three yolks of eggs, pepper, fait, and nutmeg to your palate, mix them all up together, have ready the giblets feafoned very well with pepper and fait, and lay them round a deep difh, then put a pound of fat beef over the 1ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 157 the pudding in the middle of the difh, pour in half a pint of gravy, lay on a good palle, and bake it in a moderate oven. A Rook Pie, SKIN and draw fix young rooks, and cut out the back bones, feafon them well with pepper and fait, put them in a deep difh, with a quar- ter of a pint of water; lay over them half a pound of butter, make a good puff pafte, and cover the difh, lay a paper over it, for it requires a good deal of baking. A fweet Veal Pie. LAY marrow or beef fuet, fhred very fine, in the bottom of your difh; cut into fteaks the beft end of a neck of veal, and lay them in, ftrew over them fome marrow or fuet, it makes them eat tenderer; ftone a quarter of a pound of jar raifins, chop them a little, wafh half a pound of currants and put them over the fteaks, cut three ounces of candied citron, and two ounces of candied orange, and lay them on the top; boil half a pint of fweet mountain or fack, with a ftick of cin- namon, and pour it in, lay a pafte round the difh, and then lid it; an hour will bake it; when it comes out of the oven, put in a glafs of French brandy or fhrub, and lerve it up. An Olive Pie. CUT a fillet of veal in thin flices, rub them over with yolks of eggs, ftrew over them a few crumbs158 THE EXPERIENCED crumbs of bread, fhred a little lemon peel very ime, and put it on them, with a little grated nut- meS’ pepper* and lalt, roll them up very tight and lay them in a pewter difh, pour over them half a pint of good gravy made of bones, put half a pound of butter over it, make a light pafte, and lay it round the difh, roll the lid half an inch thick, and lay it on.—Make a beef olive pie the fame way. A favoury Veal Pie. CUT a loin of veal into Peaks, feafon it with beaten mace, nutmeg, pepper, and fait; lay the meat in your difh, with fweetbreads feafoned with the meat, and the yolks of fix hard eggs, a pint of oyfleis, and half a pint of good gravy; lay round youi difh a good puff pafte, half an inch thick, and cover it with a lid the fame thicknefs, bake it in a quick oven an hour and a quarter; when you take it out of the oven, cut off the lid, then cut the lid in eight or ten pieces, and flick it round the infide of the rim, cover the meat with flices of lemon, and ferve it up, ‘To makefavoury Patties. TAKE one pound of the infide of a cold loin of veal, or the fame quantity of cold fowl, that has been either boiled or roafted, a quarter of a pound of beef fuet, chop them as fmall as pof- iible, with fix or eight fprigs of parfley, feafon them well with half a nutmeg grated fine, pep- per and fait, put them in a tofling-pan, with half pint of veal gravy, thicken the gravy with a littleENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 159 little flour and butter, and two fpoonfuls of cream, and fhake them over the Are two minutes, and fill your patties.— You muft make your patties thus: Raile them of an oval form, and bake them as for cuftards, cut fome long nar- row bits of pafte, and bake them on a dufting- box, but not to go round, they are for handles; fill your patties when quite hot with the meat, then fet your handles a-crofs the patties; they will look like bafkets if you have nicely pinched the walls of the patties when you railed them, five will be a difli; you may make them with fugar and currants inftead of parfley. Fryed Patties. CUT half a pound of a leg of veal very fmall, with fix oyfters, put the liquor of the oyfters to the crumb of a penny loaf, mix them to- gether with a little fait, put it in a tofling-pan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, and keep ftirring it for three or four minutes over the fire, then make a good puff pafte, roll it out, and cut it in little bits about the fize of a crown piece, fome round, fquare, and three-cornered, put a little of the meat upon them, and lay a lid on them, turn up the edges as you would a pafty, to keep in the gravy, fry them in a panful of hog’s-lard; they are a pretty corner-difli for din- ner or fupper. If you want them for garnilh to a cod’s head, put in only oyfters; they are very pretty for a calf’s head hafh. 1Sweeti Go THE EXPERIENCED Sweet Patties. TAKE the meat of a boiled calf’s foot, two large apples, and one ounce of candied orange, chop them very fmall, grate half a nutmeg, mix them with the yolk of an egg, a fpoonful of French brandy, and a quarter of a pound of currants clean wafhed and dried, make a good puff pafte, roll it in different lhapes, as the fryed ones, and fill them the fame way; you may either bake or fry them. They are a pretty fide-difh for fupper. Common Patties. TAKE the kidney part of a very fat loin of veal, chop the kidney, veal, and fat very fmall all together, feafon it with mace, pepper, and fait, to your tafte, raife little patties the fize of a tea-cup, fill them with the meat, put-thin lids on them, bake them very crifp: five is enough for a fide-difh. To make^fine Patties. SLICE either turkey, houfe lamb, or chicken, with an equal quantity of the fat of lamb, loin of veal, or the inlide of a furloin of beef, a little parfley, thyme, and lemon peel fhred, put it all in a marble mortar, and pound it very fine, fea- fon it with white pepper and lalt, then make a fine puff pafte, roll it out in thin fquare fheets, put the forcemeat in the middle, cover it over, clofe them all round, and cut the pafte even. Juft beforeENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 161 before they go into the oven wafh them over with the yolk of an egg, and bake them twenty minutes in a quick oven, have ready a little white gravy, feafoned with pepper, fait, and a little fhalot, thickened up with a little cream or butter; as foon as the patties come out of the oven, make a hole in the top, and pour in fome gravy, you muft take care not to put too much gravy in, for fear of its running out at the hides, and lpoiling the patties. i To make common Fritters. TAKE half a pint of ale and two eggs, beat in as much flour as will make it rather thicker than a common pudding, with nutmeg and fugar to your tafte, let it hand three or four minutes to rife, then drop them with a fpoon into a pan of boiling lard, fry them a light brown, drain them on a fieve, ferve them up with fugar grated over them, and wine fauce in a boat. To ?nake Apple Fritters. PARE the largeft baking apples you can get, take out the core with an apple fcraper, cut them in round dices, and dip them in batter, made as for common fritters, fry them crifp, ferve them up with fugar grated over them, and wine fauce in a boat. They are proper for a fide-difh for fupper. To make Clary Fritters. BEAT two eggs exceeding well, with one fpoonful of cream, one of ratifia water, one Y ounce162 THE EXPERIENCED » ounce of loaf fugar, and two fpoonfuls of flour, grate in half a nutmeg, have ready walked and dried clary leaves, dip them in the batter, and fry them a nice brown; ferve them up with quarters of Sevelle oranges laid round them, and good melted butter in a boat. To make Raspberry Fritters. GRATE two Naples bifcuits, pour over them half a gill of boiling cream, when it is almoft cold, beat the yolks of four eggs to a ftrong froth, beat the bifcuits a little, then beat both together exceeding well, pour to it two ounces of fugar, and as much juice of rafpberry as will make it a pretty pink colour, and give it a pro- per fharpnefs, drop them into a pan of boiling lard, the fize of a walnut; when you difh them up, flick bits of citron in fome, and blanched almonds cut length ways in others; lay round them green and yellow fweetmeats, and ferve them up. They are a pretty corner-diflr for either dinner or fupper. To make Tansey Fritters. TAKE the crumb of a penny loaf, pour on it half a pint of boiling milk, let it hand an hour, then put in as much juice of tanfey as will give it a flavour, but not to make it bitter, then make it a pretty green with the juice of fpinage, put to it a fpoonful of ratifia water, or brandy, fl eeten it to your tafte, grate the rind of hall a lemon, beat the yolks of four eggs, mix them ail together, put them in a tofling-pan, with four ouncesENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 163 Y 2 To ounces of butter, ftir it over a flow fire till it is quite thick, take it off, and let it Hand two or three hours, then drop them into a panful of boiling lard, a fpoonful is enough for a fritter; ierve them up with flices of orange round them, grate fugar over them, and wine fauce in a boat. To make Plum Fritters with Rice. GRATE the crumbs of a penny loaf, pour over it a pint of boiling cream, or good milk, let it Hand four or five hours, then beat it ex- ceeding fine, put to it the yolks of five eggs, four ounces of fugar, and a nutmeg grated; beat them well together, and fry them in hog’s- lard ; drain them on a fieve, and ferve them up with wine fauce under them. N. B.—You may put currants in if you pleafe. To make Water Fritters. TAKE a quart of water, five or fix fpoonfuls of flour (the batter muft be very thick) and a little fait, mix all thefe together, and beat the yolks and whites of eight eggs with a little brandy, then ftrain them through a hair fieve, •and put them to the other things; the longer they hand before you fry them the better, juft before you fry them, melt about half a pound of butter very thick, and beat if well in; you muft not turn them, and take care not to burn them: the beft thing to fry them in is fine lard.164 THE EXPERIENCED To make French Bancees. TAKE half a pint of water, a bit of lemon peel, a bit of butter the bignefs of a walnut, a little orange-flour water; let thefe boil three or four minutes; then take out the lemon peel, and add to it a pint of flour, keep the water boiling and ftirring all the while till it is ftiff, then take it oft the hre, and put in fix eggs, leaving out the whites of three; beat thefe well lor about half an hour, till they come to a ftiff pafte, drop thfem into a pan of boiling lard with a tea-fpoon; if they are of a right lightnefs they will be very nice; keep fhaking the pan ail the time till they are of a light brown. A large difh will take fix or feven minutes boiling; when done enough, put them into a difh that will drain them, fet them by the fire, and ftrew fine fugar over them. To make German Pufts. « PUT half a pint of good milk into a tofling- pan, and dredge it in flour till it is thick as hafty- pudding, keep ftirring it over a flow fire, till it is all of a lump, then put it in a marble mortar; when it is cold put to it the yolks of three eggs, four ounces of fugar, a fpoonful of rofe water, grate a little nutmeg, and the rind of half a le- mon, beat them together an hour or more, when it looks light and bright, drop them into a pan of boiling lard with a tea-fpoon, the fize of a large nutmeg, they will rife, and look like a large yellowENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 165 yellow plum if they are well beat: as you fry them, lay them on a fieve to drain, grate iugar round your di£h, and lerve them up with lack for fauce.—It is a proper corner-dilh for dinner or fupper. To make Gofers. BEAT three eggs well, with three fpoonfuls of flour and a little fait, then mix them with a pint of milk, an ounce of fugar, and half a nut- meg grated, beat them well together, then make your gofer tongs hot, rub them with frefh but- ter, fill the bottom part of your tongs, and clap the top up, then turn them, and when a fine brown on both fides, put them in a difli, and pour white wine fauce over them; five is enough for a difh; do not lay them one upon another, it will make them foft.—You may put in currants if you pleafe. To make Wafer. Pancakes. BEAT four eggs well, with two fpoonfuls of fine flour, and two of cream, one ounce of loaf fugar, beat and fifted, half a nutmeg grated, put a little cold butter in a clean cloth, and rub your pan well with it, pour in your batter, and make it as thin as a wafer, fry it only on one fide, put them on a difh, and grate fugar betwixt every pancake, and fend them hot to the table. To make Cream Pancakes. TAKE the yolks of two eggs, mix them with half a pint of good cream, two ounces of fugar, rub166 THE EXPERIENCED rul3 your pan with lard, and fry them as thin as poffible; grate fugar over them, and ferve them up hot. To make Clary Pancakes. BEAT three eggs with three fpoonfuls of fine Hour, and a little fait, exceeding well, mix them with a pint of milk, and put lard into your pan; when it is hot, put in your butter as thin as poffiole, then lay in your clary leaves, and pour a little more batter thin over them; fry them a fine brown, and ferve them up. , To make Batter Pancakes. BEAT three eggs with a pound of flour very well, put to it a pint of milk, and a little fait, fry them in lard or butter, grate fugar over them, cut them in quarters, and ferve them up. To make fine Pan acres. TAKE a pint of cream, eight eggs (leave out two of the whites) three fpoonfuls of fack or orange-flower water, a little fugar, if it be agreeable, a grated nutmeg; the butter and cream muft be melted over the fire; mix all to- gether, with three fpoonfuls of flour; butter the frying-pan for the firft, let them run as thin as you can in the pan, fry them quick, and fend them up hot. To make Tansey Pancakes. BEAT four eggs, and put to them half a pint of cream, four fpoonfuls of flour, and two of fineENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 167 fine fugar, beat them a quarter of an hour, then put in one fpoonful of the juice of taniey, and two of the juice of fpinage, with a little grated nutmeg, beat all well together, and fry them in frefh butter garnifh them with quarters of Seville oranges, grate double-refined lugar over them, and fend them up hot. To make a pink-coloured, Pancake. BOIL a large beet root tender, and beat it fine in a marble mortar, then add the yolks oi four eggs, two fpoonfuls of flour, and three fpoonfuls of good cream, fweeten it to your tafte, grate in half a nutmeg, and put in a glafs of brandy; beat them all together half an. hour, fry them in butter, and garnifh them with green fweetmeats, preferred apricots, or green fprigs of myrtle.—It is a pretty corner-difh for either dinner or fupper. C H A P. VI. Obfervations on Puddi NGS. BREAD and cuftard puddings require time, and a moderate oven, that will rife and not burn them; batter and rice puddings a quick oven, and always butter the pan or difh before you pour the pudding in; when you boil a pud- ping, take great care your cloth is very clean, dip it in boiling water, and flour it well, and give your cloth a fhake; if you boil it in a bafon, butteri68 THE EXPERIENCED To butter it, and boil it in plenty of water, and turn it often, and do not cover the pan; when enough take it up in the bafon, let it {land a fe# minutes to cool, then untie the firing, wrap the cloth round the bafon, lay your difh over it, and turn the pudding out, and take the bafon and cloth off very carefully, for very often a light pudding is broke in turning out. A Hunting Pudding. BOIL the {kins of two lemons very tender, and beat them very fine, beat half a pound of almonds in rofe water, and a pound of fugar very fine, melt half a pound of butter, and let it {land till quite cold- beat the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of four, mix them, and beat them all together, with a little orange-flour water, and bake it in an oven. To make a baked Almond Pudding. BEAT eight eggs, and mix them with a pint of good cream, and a pound of*flour, beat them well together, and put to them a pound of beef fuet chopped very fine, a pound of currants well cleaned, half a pound of jar raifins, Honed and chopped fmall, a quarter of a pound of powdered fugar, two ounces of candied citron, the fame of candied orange cut fmall, grate a large nutmeg, and mix all well together, with half a gill of brandy, put it in a cloth, .and tie it-up clofe; it will take four hours boiling.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 169 To make a baked Apple Pudding. HALF a pound of apples well boiled and pounded, half a pound of butter beaten to a cream, and mixed with the apples before they are cold, and fix eggs, with the whites, well beaten and {trained, half a pound of fugar, pounded and fifted, the rinds of two lemons, well boiled and beaten; fift the peel into clean water twice in the boiling, put a thin cruft in the bottom and rims of your dilh. Half an hour well bake it. A boiled Custard Pudding. BOIL a ftick or two of cinnamon in a quart of thin cream, with a quarter of a pound of fugar; when it is cold put in the yolks of fix eggs well beat, and mix them together; fet it over a flow fire, and ftir it round one way, till it grows pretty thick, but do not let it boil, take it off, and let it ftand till it be quite cold, butter a cloth very well, and dredge it with flour, put in your cuftard, and tie it up very clofe; it will take three quarters of an hour boiling; when you take it up, put it in a round bafon to cool a lit- tle, then untie the cloth, and lay the dilh on the bowl, and turn it upfide down; be careful how you take off the cloth, for a very little will break the pudding; grate over it a little fugar; for fauce, white wine thickened with flour and butter put in the diftp Z A Lr170 the experienced A Lemon Pudding. BLANCH and beat eight ounces of Jordan almonds, with orange-flour water, add to them half a pound of cold butter, the yolks often eggs, the juice of a large lemon, half the rind giated fine, work them in a marble mortar, or wooden bafon, till they look white and light, lay a good puff pafte pretty thin in the bottom of a China difh, and pour in your pudding; it will take half an hour baking. To make a Lemon Pudding afecond Way. GRATE the rinds of four lemons, and the juice of two or three, as they are in fize, then take two bifcuits grated, three quarters of a pound of boiled butter, with half a pound of iirga.r diflolved in the yolks of twelve eggs, and four whites Tvell beat, with a little fait, and a quarter of a nutmeg grated; mix all together very well, and put it into a difh; put a nice pafte round the edge before it goes into the oven. Half an hour will bake it. To majic a Lemon Pudding third Way. TAKE a pound of flour -well dryed and fifted, a pound of fine fugar beat and fifted, the rind of a lemon grated, twelve eggs, the yolks beat a little by theinfelves, and the whites beat till they are all froth,- then gently mix all together, put it in a pan, and bake it juft half an hour. A roundI7£ ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER A ground Rice Pudding. BOIL four ounces of ground rice in water till it be foft, then beat the yolks of four eggs, and put to them a pint of cream, four ounces of fugar, and a quarter of a pound of butter, mix them all well together. An Orange Pudding. BOIL the rind of a Seville orange very foft, beat it in a marble mortar, with the juice, put , to it two Naples bifcuits grated very fine, half a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of fugar, and the yolks of fix eggs, mix them well to- gether, lay a good puff pafte round the edge of your China difh, bake it in a gentle oven half an hour: you may make a lemon pudding the fame way, by putting in a lemon inftead of the orange. To make an Orange Pudding a fecond Way. TAKE the rinds of fix oranges, boil them till they are tender, changing the water as often as you find it bitter, cut them very fine, then pound and fift three quarters of a pound of loaf fugar, wafh very well three quarters of a pound of butter, then take twelve eggs, leaving four of the whites out; mix all well together, but- ter the bottom of the difh well, and make a rich cruft, which muft be put at the bottom. Bake it nicely; it muft not be too brown. Z 2 Calf’s17^ THE EXPERIENCED Calf’s Foot Pudding. • * , m, . . BOIL a gang of calf’s feet, take the meat’ from the bones, and chop it exceeding fine, put to it the crumb of a penny loaf, a pound of beef fuet fhred very fmall, half a pint of cream, eight eggs, a pound of currants well cleanfed, four ounces of citron cut fmall, two ounces of candied orange cut like ftraws, a large nutmeg grated, and a large glafs of brandy, mix them all very well together, butter your cloth, and dull it with flour, tie it clofe up, boil it three hours; when you take the pudding up, it is beft to put it in a bowl that will juft hold it, and let it ftand a quarter of an hour. before you turn it out, lay your difh upon the top of the bafon, and turn it upfide down. r oC ZZ: t ' L'; *’ ZZZ' • ' ■') T • » * A boiled Rice Pudding. - ' , - y ** m . . . BOIL a quarter of a pound of rice in water till it be foft, and put it in a hair fieve to drain; beat it in a marble mortar, with the )olks of five eggs, a quarter of a pound of butter, the fame ot fugar, grate a fmall nutmeg, and the rind oi half a lemon, work them well together for half an hour, then put in half a pound of Currants well wafhed and cleaned, mix them well together, butter your cloth and tie it up, boil it an hour, and ferve it up with white wine fauce. BreadENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 173 To Bread Pudding. Ti\KE the crumb of a penny loaf, and pour • on it a pint of good milk boiling hot, when it is cold, beat it very fine, with two ounces^of butter, and fugar to your palate, grate half a nutmeg in it, beat it up with four eggs, and put them in, and beat all together, near half an hour, tie it in a cloth, and boil it an hour; you may put in half a pound of currants for change, and pour over it white wine fauce. To make a boiled Bread Pudding a fecond Way. TAKE the infide of a penny loaf, grate it fine, add to it two ounces of butter, take a pint and a half of milk, with a ftick of cinnamon ; boil it, and pour it over the bread, and cover it clofe till it is cold, then take fix eggs beat up very well with rofe water, mix them all well together, fweeten to your tafte, and boil it one hour. To make a Nice Pudding. BOIL half a pint of milk with a bit of cin- namon, four eggs, with the whites well beaten1, the rind of a lemon grated, half a pound ol fuet chopped fine, as much bread as will do; pour your milk on the bread and fuet, keep mixing it till cold, then put in the lemon peel, eggs, a little fugar, and fome nutmeg grated fine. Either bake or boil it, as you think proper.the experienced *74 ‘To make a Plain Pudding. BEAT the yolks and whites of three eggs with two large fpoonfuls of flour, a little fait’ and half a pint of good milk or cream, make it the thicknefs of pancake batter, and beat all very well together. Half an hour will boil it. To make a Sippet Pudding. CUT a penny loaf as thin as poflible, put a layei of bread in the bottom of a pewter difh, then ftiew over it a layer of marrowr, or beef fuet, a handful of currants, then lay a layer of bread, and fo on, till you fill your difh; as the firft lay, let the marrow or fuet and currants be at the top, beat four eggs, and mix them with a quart of cream, a quarter of a pound of fugar, and a large nutmeg grated, pour it on your difh, and bake it in a moderate oven, when it comes out of the oven, pour over it white wine fauce. An Apricot Pudding. . TAKE twelve large apricots, pare them, and • give them a fcald in water, till they are foft, then take out the ftones, grate the crumb of a penny loaf, and pour on it a pint of cream boiling hot, let it Hand till half cold, then add a quarter of a pound of fugar, and the yolks of four eggs, mix all together with a glafs of Madeira wine, pour it in a difh, with thin puff pafte round, bake it half an hour in a moderate oven. , ‘ I A Tran-ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 175 A Transparent Pudding. BEAT eight eggs very well, and put them in a pan, with half a pound of butter, and the fame weight of loaf fugar beat fine, a little grated nut- meg, fet it on the fire, and keep Birring it till it thickens like buttered eggs, then put it in a bafon to cool, roll a rich puff pafte very thin, lay it round the edge of a China difli, then pour in the pudding, and bake it in a moderate oven half an hour, it will cut light and clear.—It is a pretty pudding for a corner for dinner and a middle for fupper. A Vermicelli Pudding.^ BOIL four ounces of vermicelli in a pint of new milk till it is foft, with a flick or two of cinnamon, then put in half a pint of thick cream, a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of fugar, and the yolks of four beaten eggs. Bake it in an earthen difh without a pafle. A red Sago Pudding. TAKE two ounces of fago, boil it in water, with a flick of cinnamon, till it be quite foft and thick, let it Band till quite cold, in the mean time grate the crumb of a halfpenny loaf, and pour over it a large glafs of red wine, chop four ounces of marrow, and half a pound of fugar, and the yolks of four beaten eggs, beat them all together for a quarter of an hour, lay a puff paBe1 [ * 176 THE EXPERIENCED pafte round your difh, and fend It to the oven; when it comes back ftick.it over with blanched almonds cut the long way, and bits of citron cut the fame ; fend it to table. ' A boiled Tansey Pudding. GRATE four Naples bifcuits, put as much cream boiling hot as will wet them, beat the yolks of four eggs, have ready a few chopped tanfey leaves, with as much fpinage as will make it a pretty green, be careful you do not put too much tanfey^ in it, it will make it bitter, mix all together when the cream is cold with a little fugar, and fet it over a flow ftre till it grows thick, then take it off, and when cold put it in a cloth, well buttered and floured, tie it up clofe, and let it boil three quarters of an hour, take it up in a bafon, and let it ftand one quarter, then turn it carefully out, and put white wine fauce round it. A Tansey Pudding with Almonds. BLANCH four ounces of almonds, and beat them very fine, with rofe water, flice a French roll very thin, put on a pint of cream boiling hot, beat four eggs very well, and mix with the eggs when beaten a little fugar and grated nut- meg, a glafs of brandy, a little juice of tanfey, and the juice of fpinage to make it green, put all the ingredients into a ftew-pan, with a quar- ter-of a pound of butter, and give it a gentle boil; you may either boil it or bake it in a difh, either with a cruft or writing paper. A Tan- iENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 177 A Tansey Pudding of ground Rice. BOIL fix ounces of ground rice in a quart of good milk, till it is foft; then put in half a pound of butter, with fix eggs very well beat, and fugar and rofe water to make it palatable; beat fome fpinage in a mortar, with a few leaves of tanfey, fqueeze out the juice through a cloth, and put it in; mix all well together, cover your difh with writing paper well buttered, and pour it in; three quarters of an hour will bake it; when you difh it up, ftick it all over with a Seville or fweet orange in half quarters. A Sago Pudding another Way. BOIL two ounces of fago till it is quite thick in milk, beat fix eggs, leaving out three of the whites, put to it half a pint of cream, two fpoonfuls of fack, nutmeg and fugar to your tafte; put a pafte round your difh. Little Citron Puddings. TAKE half a pint of cream, one fpoonfui of fine flour, two otinces of fugar, a little nut- meg, mix it all well together, with the yolks of three eggs, put it in tea-cups, and ftick it in two ounces of citron cuj: very thin, bake them in a pretty quick oven, and turn them out upon a China difh.—Five is enough for a ftde-difh. A baked Tansey Pudding. GRATE the crumb of a penny loaf, pour on it a pint of boiling milk, with a quarter of A a a poundI78 THE experienced a pound of butter in it, let it Hand till almoft cold, then beat five eggs, and put them in, with a quarter of a pound of fugar, a large nutmeg grated, and a glafs of brandy, ftir them about, and put them in a tofiing-pan, with as much juice of fpi-nage as will green it, and a little tanfey chopped fmall, ftir it about over a flow fire till it grows thick, butter a fheet of writing paper, and lay it in the bottom of a pewter difli, pin the corners of the paper, to make it ftand one inch above the difli, to keep the pudding from fpreading, and let it ftand three quarters of an hour in the oven; when baked, put the difh over it you fend it up in, and turn it out upon it, take off the paper, ftick it round with a Seville orange cut in half quarters, ftick one quarter in the middle, and ferve it up with wine fauce. It will look as green as if it had not been baked, ■when turned out. A green Codling Pudding, GREEN a quart of codlings as for a pie, rub them through a hair fieve with the back of a wooden fpoon, and as much of the juice of beets as will green your pudding, put in the crumb of half a penny loaf, half a pound of butter, and three eggs well beaten; beat them all together, with half a pound of fugar, and two fpoonfuls of cyder; lay a good pafte round the rim of the ditch, and pour it in.—Half an hour will bake it.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 179 To make a common Rice Pudding. • ft WASH half a pound of rice, put to it three pints of good milk, mix it well with a quarter of a pound of butter, a hick or two of cannamon beaten hne, half a nutmeg grated, one egg well beat, a little fak and lugar to your take One hour and a half will bake it in a quick oven; when it comes out take off the top, and put the pudding in breakfah cups, turn them into a hot difh, like little puddings, and ferve it up. A Ma.rrow Pudding. POUR on the crumb of a penny loaf a pint of cream boiling hot, cut a pound of beef mar- row very thin, beat four eggs very well, then add a glafs of brandy, with fugar and nutmeg to your take, and mix them all well up together; you may either boil or bake it, three quarters of an hour will do it; cut two ounces of citron very thin, and kick them all over it when you difh it up. Marrow Pudding a fecond JVay. HALF boil four ounces of rice, hired half a pound of marrow very kne, hone a quarter of a pound raifins, chop them very fmall, with two ounces of currants well cleanfed , beat four eggs a quarter of an hour, mix it all together, with a pint of good cream, a fpoonful of brandy, fugar and nutmeg to your take; you may either bake it, or put it in hog’s fkins. A a 2 MarrowiSo THE EXPERIENCED Marrow Pudding a third Way. BLANCH half a pound of almonds, put them in cold water all night, the next day beat them in a marble mortar very fine, with orange- flour or rofe water, take the crumb of a penny loaf, and pour on them a pint of boiling cream; whilft the cream is cooling, beat the yolks of four eggs and two whites a quarter of an hour, add a little fugar, and grate nutmeg to your pa- late, have ready fhred the marrow of two bones, and mix them all well together, with a little cam died orange cut fmall: this is ufually made to fill in fkins, but it is a good baked pudding: if you put it in fkins, do not fill them too full, for it will fwell, but boil them gently. White Pudding in Skins. WASH half a pound of rice in warm water, boil it in milk till it is loft, put it in a fieve to drain, blanch and beat half a pound of Jordan almonds very fine, with rofe water, wafh and dry a pound of currants, then cut in fmall bits a pound of hog’s lard, take fix eggs and beat them well, half a pound of fugar , a large nut- meg grated, a flick of cinnamon, a little mace, and a little fait, mix them very well together, fill your fkins, apd boil them. To make a Quaking Pudding. BOIL a quart of cream, and let it hand till aim oft cold, then beat four eggs a full quarter of an hour, with afpoonful and a half of flour, then mix them with your cream, add fugar and nut- meg to your palate, tie it clofe up in a cloth well >: buttered,ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. i3i battered, and let it boil an hour, and turn it L carefully out. To make a Quaking Pudding a fecond Way. TAKE a pint of good cream, the yolks of ten eggs and fix whites, beat them very well, and run them through a fine fieve ; then take two heaped fpoonfuls of flour, and a fpoonful or two of cream, beat it with the flour till it is fmooth, and mix all together, and tie it clofe. up in a difih or bafon well rubbed with butter, and dredged with flour; the waiter mull boil when you put in the pudding. One hour will boil it; ferve it up with wine fauce in a boat. To make a Yorkshire Pudding to bake wider Meat. BEAT four eggs, with four large fpoonfuls of fine flour, and a little fait, for a quarter of an hour, put to them one quart and a half of milk, mix them well together, then butter a dripping- pan, and fet it under beef, mutton, or a loin of veal when roafting, and when it is brown cut it in lquare pieces, and turn it over ; when well browned on the under lide, fend it to table on a flifh.—You may mix a boiled pudding the lame way. A boiled Milk Pudding. POUR a pint of new milk boiling hot on three fpoonfuls of fine flour, beat the flour and milk for half an hour, then put in three eggs, and beat it a little longer, grate in half a tea-ipoonful of ginger, dip the cloth in boiling water, butter if well, and flour it, put in the pudding, and tie it clofe up, and boil it an hour; it requires great • , care -iSs THE EXPERIENCED care when you turn it out; pour over it thick melted butter. Herb Pudding OF fpinage, beets, parfley, and leeks, take each a handful, wafh them, and give them afcald in boiling water, then fhred them very fine, have leady a quart of groats fieeped in warm water half an hour, and a pound of hog’s-lard cut in little bits, three large onions chopped fmall, and three fage leaves hacked fine, put in a little fait, mix all well together, and tie it clofe up ; it will require to be taken up in boiling, to llacken the firing a little. To make a Ya.m Pudding. TAKE a middling white yam, and either boil of roaft it, then pare off the fkin and pound it very fine, with three quarters of a pound of butter, half a pound of lugar, a little mace, cinnamon, and twelve eggs, leaving out half the whites, beat them with a little rofe water. You may put in a little citron cut fmall, if you like it, and bake it nicely. Gooseberry Pudding. SCALD half a pint of green goofeberries in water, till they are foft, put them into a fieve to drain, when cold work them through a hair lieve with the back of a clean wooden fpoon, add to them half a pound of fugar, and the fame of butter, four ounces of Naples bifcuits, beat fix eggs very well, then mix all together, and beat them a quarter of an hour, pour it in an earthen difh without pafte ; half an hour will bake it. To «ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 183 To make Raspberry Dumplins. MAKE a good cold pafte, roll it a quarter of an inch thick, and lpread over it rafpberry jam to your own liking, roll it up, and boil it in a cloth one hour at leaft, take it up, and cut it in five flices, and lay one in the middle and the other four round it, pour a little good melted butter in the difh, and grate fine fugar round the edge of the difh.—It is proper for a corner or fide for dinner. To make Damson Dumplins. MAKE a good hot pafte cruft, roll it pretty thin, lay it in a bafon, and put in what quantity of damfons you think proper, wet the edge of the pafte, and clofe it up, boil it in a cloth one hour and fend it up whole; pour over it melted butter, and grate fugar round the edge of the difh.—Note, you may make any kind of pre- ferved fruit the fame way. To make Apple Dumplins. PARE your apples, take out the core with an apple fcraper, fill the hole with quince or orange ' marmalade, or fugar, which fiats you, then take a piece of cold pafte, and make a hole in it, as if you was going to make a pie, lay in your ap- ple, and put another piece of pafte in the fame form, and clofe it round the fide of your ap- ple* it is much better than gathering it in a lump at one end, tie. it in a cloth, and boil it three quarters of an hour; pour melted butter over them, and ferve them up ; five is enough for a difh. To1 i84 the experienced To make a Sparrow Dumplin. MIX half a pint of good milk, with three eggs, a little fait, and as much flour as will make it a thick batter, put a lump of butter rolled in pepper and fait in every fparrow, mix them in the batter, and tie them in a cloth, boil them one hour and a half, pour melted butter over them, and ferve them up. To make a Barm Pudding. TAKE a pound of flour, mix a fpoonful of barm in it, with a little fait, and make it into a light pafte with warm water, let it lie one hour, then make it up into round balls, and tie them up in little nets, and put them in a pan of boiling water, do not cover them, it will make them lad, nor do not let them boil fo faft as to let the water boil over them, turn them when they have been in fix or feven minutes, and they will rife through the net and look like diamonds, twenty minutes will boil them; ferve them up, and pour fweet fauce over them. To make a Hanover Cake or Pudding. TAKE half a pound of almonds blanched, and beat fine, with a little rofe water, half a pound of fine fugar, pounded and fifted, fifteen eggs, leaving out half the whites, the rind of a lemon grated very fine ; put a few almonds in the mortar at a time, and put in by degrees about a tea-cupful of rofe water ; keep throwing in the fugar; when you have done the almonds and fugar together a little at a time till they are all ufed up, then put it into your pan with the eggs: beat them very well together. Half an hour will bake it; it muft be a light brown. PART§«* V<S>1 4/t <y* ^ <51 ^ 47* 4?v&T-<?-> PART II. * CHAP. VII. Qbfervations on making Decorations for a Table. WHEN you fpin a Elver web for a defert, always take particular care your fire is clear, and a pan of water upon the fire, to keep the heat from your face and fto- mach, for fear the heat fhould make you faint; you mull not fpin it before a kitchen fire, for the fmaller the grate is, fo that the tire be clear and hot, the better able you will be to fit a long time before it, for, if you fpin a whole defert, you will be feveral hours in lpinning it; be fure to have a tin box to put every bafket in as you fpin them, and cover them from the air, and keep them warm until you have done the whole, as your receipt directs you. If you fpin a gold web, take care your chafing- difh is burnt clear before you fet it upon the table where your mould is; fet your ladle on the fire, and keep ftirring it with a wooden fkewer till it juft boils, then let it cool a little, for it will not fpin when it is boiling hot, and if it grows cold it is equally as bad; but as it cools on the fides of your ladle, dip the point of your knife in,, and begin to fpin round your mould as long as it will draw, then heat it again; the only art is to keep it of a proper heat, and it will draw out like a fine thread, and of a gold colour; it is a great fault to put in too much fiugar at a time, B b for186 THE EXPERIENCED for often heating takes the moifture out of the fugar, and burns it; therefore the beft way is to put in a little at a time, and clean out your ladle. When you make a hen or bird’s neft, let part of your jelly be fet in your bowl before you put on your flummery or ftraw, for if your jelly is warm they will fettle to the bottom, and mix together. If it be a fifh-pond, or a tranfparent pudding, put in your jelly at three different times, to make your fifh or fruit keep at a proper diflance one from another, and be lure your jelly is very clear and ftiff, or it will not fhow the figures, nor keep whole; When you turn them out, dip your bafon in warm water, as your receipt directs, then turn your difh or falver upon the top of your bafon, and turn your bafon upfide down. When you make flummery, always obferve to have it pretty thick, and your moulds wet in cold water before you put in your flummery, or your jelly will fettle to the bottom, and the cream l'wim at the top, fo that it will look to be two different colours. If you make cuftards, do not let them boil after the yolks are in, but ftir them all one way, and keep them of a good heat till they are thick enough, and the rawnefs of the eggs is gone off. When you make whips or fyllabubs, raife your froth with a chocolate-mill, and lay it upon a fieve to drain, it will be much prettier, and will lie upon your glaffes without mixing with your wine, or running down the fides of your glaffes; and when you have made any of the before-mentioned things, keep them in a cool, airyENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 187 airy place, for a clofe place will give them a bad tafte, and foon fpoil them. To fpin a Silver Web for covering Sweet- Meats. TAKE a quarter of a pound of treble-refined fugar, in one lump, and let it before a moderate fire on the middle of a filver falver, or pewter plate, fet it a little a-flant, and when it begins to run like clear water to the edge of the plate or falver, have ready a tin cover, or China bowl fet on a ftool, with the mouth downward, clofe to the fugar, that it may not cool by carrying too far, then take a clean knife, and take up as much of the fyrup as the point of the knife will hold, and a fine thread will come from the point, which you muft draw as quick as poffible back- wards and forwards, and alfo round the mould, as long as it will fpin from the knife; be very careful you do not drop the fyrup on the web, if you do it will fpoil it, then dip your knife into the fyrup again, and take up more, and fo keep fpinning till your fugar is done, or your web is thick enough; be fure you do not let the knife touch the lump on the plate that is not melted, it will make it brittle, and not fpin at all, if your fugar is fpent before your web is done, put frefii fugar on a clean plate or falver, and do not fpin from the fame plate again; if you do not want the web to cover the fweet-meats immediately, fet it in a deep pewter dilh, and cover it with a tin co\er, and lay a cloth over it, to prevent the air from getting to it, and fet it before the fire (it requires to be kept warm, or it will fall); when 13 b 2 your188 THE EXPERIENCED your dinner or {upper is difhed, have ready a plate or difh the fize of your web, filled with different coloured fweet-meats, and fet your web over it.—It is pretty for a middle, where the difhes are fevv, or corner where the number is large. To fpin a Gold Web for covering Sweet- Meats. BEAT four ounces of treble-refined fugar in a marble mortar, and lift it through a hair fieve, then put it in a filver or brafs ladle, but filver maizes the colour better, fet it over a chafing- difh of charcoal, that is burnt clear, and fet it on a table, and turn a tin cover or China bowd upfide down upon the fame table, and wrhen your fugar is melted, it will be of a good colour, take your ladle off the fire, and begin to fpin it with a knife, the fame way as the filver web; when the fugar begins to cool and fet, put it over the fire to warm, and fpin it as before, but do not ■warm it too often, it wdll turn the fugar a bad colour; if you have not enough of fugar, clean the ladle before you put in more, and fpin it till your web is thick enough, then take it off and fet it over the fweet-meats, as you did the filver web. To make Gum Paste for Desert Baskets or Covers. TAKE twv) ounces of gum dragon, fteep it in a tea-cupful of cold water all night, the next morning have ready a pound of treble-refined fugar, beat and fift it through a filk fieve, rub your gum through a hair fieve, then mix your fugarENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 189 fugar and gum together, work it till it is white, and mix it with a pafte rhade of marechalle pow- der, and cut it into fuch devices as are moft agreeable to your fancy. \ To make Artificial Flowers. MAKE paftes of divers colours, with gum- dragon thoroughly fteeped, and mingled with powder fugar, and beat the pafte well in a marble mortar; take prepared cochineal for the red; gambouge for the yellow; indigo and orris for the blue; and the juice of beet leaves for the green, fcaled over the fire to take away their crudity. Shape the paftes, thus ordered and rolled into thin pieces, in the form of rofes, tuhps, &c. by means of tin moulds, or cut out with a knife point; finifti the flowers all at once, and dry them upon egg-fhells, or otherwife. Cut dif- ferent forts of leaves, in like manner, out of the green pafte, to which you may give various figures, intermixed among your flowers, and make the ftalks with flips of lemon-peel; garnifh the tops of the pyramids of dried fruits with thefe artificial flowers, or elfe a feparate nofegay may. be made of them, for the middle of your defert; or they may be laid in order in a bafket, or kind of cup, made of fine paftry-work of crackling- cruft, neatly cut and dried for that purpofe. To \r^o THE EXPERIENCED To make a Deser? of Spun Sugar. SPIN two large webs, and turn one upon the other to form a globe, and put in the infide of them a few lprigs of fmall flowers and myrtle, and fpin a little more round to bind them toge- ther, and fet them covered clofe up before the Ere, then fpin two more on a leffer bowl and put in a fprig of myrtle and a few fmall flowers', and bind them as before, fet them by, and fpin two more lefs than the laft, and put in a few flowers, bind them and fet them by, then fpin twelve couple on tea-cups of three different fizes in proportion to the globes, to reprefent bafkets, and bind them two and two as the globes with l'pun fugar; fet the globes on a filver falver, one upon another, -the largeft at the bottom, and fmalleft at the top; when you have fixed the globes, run two fmall wires through the middle of the largeft globes, acrofs each other; then take a large darning-needle and filk, and run it through the middle of the largeft bafkets, crofs it at the bottom, and bring it up to the top, and make a loop to hang them on the wire, and do fo with the reft of your bafkets, hang the largeft bafkets on the wires, then put two more wir^s a little fhorter acrofs, through the middle of the fecond globes, and put the end of the wires out betwixt the bafkets, and hang on the four mid* die ones, then run two more wires- fhorter than the laft through the middle of the top globes, and hang the bafkets over the lowed; flick a fprigENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 191 of myrtle on the top of your globes, and fet it on the middle of the table.—Obi'erve you do not put too much fugar down at a time for a filver web, becaufe the fugar will loie its moiflure, and run in lumps inflead of drawing out; nor too much in the ladle, for the golden web will lofe its colour by heating too often.—You may make the bafkets a filver, and the globes a gold co- lour, if you choofe them.—It is a pretty defert for a grand table. To make Calf’s Foot Jelly. PUT a gang of calves feet well cleaned into a pan, with fix quarts of water, and let them boil gently till reduced to two quarts, then take out the feet, fcumt off the fat clean, and clear the jelly from the fediment, beat the whites of five eggs to a froth, then add one pint of Lifbon, Madeira, or any pale made wine, if you choofe it, then fqueeze in the juice of three le- mons : when your flock is boiling, take three fpoonfuls of it, and keep flirring it with your wine and eggs, to keep it from curdling; then add a little more flock, and flill keep flirring it, and then put it in the pan, and fweeten it with loaf fugar to your tafle; a glafs of French brandy will keep the jelly from turning blue in frofly air; put in the outer rind of two lemons, and let it boil one minute all together, and pour it into a flannel bag, and let it run into a bafon, and keep pouring it back gently into the bag till it runs clear and bright, then fet your glaffes under the bag, and cover it, lefl dull gets in.—If you would have the jelly for a fifh-pond, tranfparent pud- ding.i$2 THE EXPERIENCED ding-, or hen s neft, to be turned out of the mould, boil half a pound of lfinglafs in a pan of water, till reduced to one quart, and put it into the flock before it is refined. / To make Savoury Jelly. SPREAD fome flices of lean veal and ham in tne bottom of a fiew-pan, with a carrot and tmnip, or two or three onions; cover it, and let it Eve at on a flow lire, till it is as deep a brown as you would have it, then put to it a cpiart of very clear broth, fome whole pepper, mace, a very little ifinglafs, and fait to your tafle; let this boil ten minutes, then flraln ij; through a French flrainer, feu in off all the fat and put it to the whites of three eggs, run it feveral times through a jelly-bag as you do other jellies. \ To make Savoury Jelly for cold Meats. BOIL beef and mutton to a ftijfF jelly, feafon it with a little pepper and fait, a blade or two of mace, and an onion; then beat the whites of four eggs, put to it the jelly, and beat ft a little, then run it through a jelly-bag, and when clear pour it on your meat or fowls in the difh you fend it up on. To make FI art shorn Jelly a fccond Way. TAKE half a pound of hartfhorn and put to it two quarts of water, let it Hand in the oven all night, then flrain it from the hartfhorn, and put to it a pint of Rhenifh wine, the whites of fourENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 193 To C c four eggs, a little mace, the juice of three le- mons, and lugar to your fade; boil them toge- ther, and drain it through a jelly-bag; when it is fine, put it in your glades for ufe. N. B.—If you have no Rhenifh wine, white wine will do. To make Flummery. PUT one ounce of bitter and one of fweet almonds into a bafon, pour over them fome boiling wafer, to make the fkins come off, which is called blanching; drip off" the duns, and throw the kernels into cold water, then take them out, and beat them in a marble mortar, with a little rofe water, to keep them from oil- ing; when they are beat, put them into a pint of calf’s foot dock, fet it over the fire, and fweeten it to your tade with loaf fugar; as foon as it boils, drain it thro’ a piece of mudin or gauze; when a little cold, put it into a pint of thick cream, and keep dirring it often till it grows thick and cold, wet your moulds in cold water, and pour in the flummery, let it fland five or fix hours at lead before you turn them out; if you make the flummery dilf, and wet the moulds, it will turn out without putting it into warm water, for water takes off the figures of the mould, and makes the flummery look dull.—N. B. Be careful you keep dirring it till cold, or it will run in lumps when you turn it out of the mould.i94 the experienced To To make Colouring for Flummery a?id Jellies. TAKE two penny-worth of cochineal, bruife it with the blade of a knife, and put it into half a tea-cupful of the beft French brandy, and let xt Hand a fjuaiter of an hour; filter it through a fine cloth, and put in as much as will make the jelly or flummery a fine pink ; if yellow, take a little faffron, tie it in a rag, and diffolve it in cold water; if green, take fome fpinage, boil it, take off the froth, and mix it with the jelly; if white, put in l'ome cream. To make a Fish-Pond. FILL four large fifh moulds with flummery, and fix fmall ones, take a China bowl, and put in half a pint of ftiff clear calf’s foot jelly, let it Hand till cold, then lay two of the fmall fifhes on the jelly, the right fide down, put in half a pint more jelly, let it ftand till cold, then lay in the four fmall fifhes acrofs one another, that when you turn the bowl upfide down the heads and tails may be feen, then almoft fill your bowl with jelly, and let it fiand till cold, then lay in the jelly four large fifhes, and fill the ba- fon quite full with jelly, and let it ftand till the next day; when you want to ufe it, fet your bowl to the brim in hot water for one minute, take care that you do not let the water go into the bafon, lay your plate on the top of the ba- fon, and turn it upfide down; if you want it for the middle, turn it out upon a falver; be fure you make your jelly very ftiff and clear.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 195 To make a Hen’s Nest. TAKE three or live of the fmalleft pullet eggs you can get, fill them with flummery, and when they are ftiff and cold peel off the fhells, pare off the rinds of two lemons very thin, and boil them in fugar and water, to take off the bitternefs; when they are cold, cut them in long fhreds to imitate draws, then fill a bafon one third full of ftiff calf’s foot jelly, and let it ftand till cold, then lay in the fhred of the le- mons in a ring about two inches high in the middle of your bafon, ftrew a few corns of lago to look like barley, fill the bafon to the height of the peel, and' let it ftand till cold, then lay your eggs of flummery in the middle of the ring, that the ftraw may be feen round; fill the bafon quite full of jelly, and let it ftand, and turn it out the fame way as the fifh-pond. To make Blanc-mange of Isinglass. BOIL one ounce of ifinglafs in a quart of water till it is reduced to a pint, then put in the whites of four eggs, with two lpoonfuls of rice water, to keep the eggs from poaching, and fugar to your tafte, and run it through a jelly- bag, then put to it two ounces of lweet and one ounce of bitter almonds, give them a fcald in your jelly, and put them through a hair fieve, put it in a China bowl; the next day turn it out, and flick it all over with almonds, blanched and cut lengthways: garnifh with green leaves or flowers. C c 2 Green c , ft • *.l96 THE experienced Green Blanc-mange of Isinglass. DISSOLVE your ifinglafs, and put to it two ounces of lweet and two ounces of bitter al- monds, with as much juice of fpinage as will make it green, and a fpoonful of French brandy; fet it over a Rove fire till it is almoft ready to boil, then ftrain it through a gauze fieve; when it glows thick, put it into a melon mould, and the next day turn it out—garnilh it with red and white flowers. Clear Blanc-mange. TAKE a quart of ftrong calf’s foot jelly, {kirn off, the fat and ftrain it, beat the whites of four eggs, and put them to your jelly, fet it over the fire, and keep ftirring it till it boils; then pour it into a jelly-bag, and run it through feveral times till it is clear, beat one ounce of iweet almonds, and one of bitter, to a pafte, with a fpoonful of rofe water fqueezed through a cloth', then mix it with the jelly, and three fpoonfuls of very good cream, fet it over the fire again, and keep ftirring it till it is almoft boiling, then pour it into a bowl, and ftir it very often till it is almoft cold, then wet your moulds and fill them. Yellow Flummery. TAKE, two ounces of ifinglafs, beat it and open it, put it into a bowl, and pour a pint of boiling water upon it, cover it up till almoft ' cold, and add a pint of white wane, the juice ofENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 197 of two lemons, with the rind of one, the yolks of eight eggs beat well, fweeten it to your tafle, put it in a tolling-pan and keep flirring it, when it boils drain it through a fine iieve, when al- mod cold, put it into cups and moulds. A good Green. LAY an ounce of gambouge in a quarter of a pint of water, put an ounce and a half of good done blue in a little water, when they are both diffolved mix them together, add a quarter of a pint more water, and a quarter of a pound of fine fugar, boil it a little, then put it into a galli- pot, cover it clofe and it will keep for years ; be careful not to make it too deep a green, for a very little, will do at a time. Fruit in Jelly. PUT half a pint of clear flifF calf’s foot jelly into a bafon, when it is fet and diff lay in three fine ripe peaches, and a bunch of grapes with the dalks up, put a few vine leaves over them, then fill up your bowl with jelly, and let it dand till the next day ; then fet your bafon to the brim in hot water, and as foon as you find it leaves the bafon, lay your difh over it, and turn your jelly carefully upon it—garnifh with flowers. Green Melon in Flummery. MAKE a little diff flummery, with a good deal of bitter almonds in it, add to it as much juice of fpinage as will make it a fine pale green, when 1*98 THE EXPERIENCED when it is as thick as good cream wet your me- lon mould and put it in. then put a pint of clear calf’s foot jelly into a large bafon, and let them ftand till the next day, then turn out your me- lon, and lay it the right fide down in the mid- dle of your bafon of jelly ; then fill up your bafon with jelly that is beginning to fet, let it Hand all night, and turn it out the fame way as the fruit in jelly : make a garland of flowers, and put it in your jelly.—It is a pretty difh for middle at fupper, or corner for a fecond courfe at dinner. Gilded Fish in Jelly. MAKE a little clear blanc -mange as is directed in the receipt, then fill two large fifh moulds with it, and when it is cold turn it out, and gild them with gold leaf, or ftrew them over with gold and filver bran mixed, then lay them on a foup-difh, and fill it with clear thin calf’s foot jelly, it muft be fo thin as they will fwim in it; if you have no jelly, Lifbon wine, or any kind of pale made wines will do. Hen and Chickens in Jelly. MAKE fome flummery with a deal of fweet almonds in it, colour a little of it brown with chocolate, and put it in a mould the fhape of a hen ; then colour fome more flummery with the yolk of a hard egg beat as fine as poffible, leave part of your flummery white; then fill the moulds of feven chickens, three with white flummery, and three with yellow, and one the colour of the hen;ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 199 hen; when they are cold turn them into a deep difh ; put under and round them lemon peel, boiled tender and cut like ftraw, then put a little clear calf’s foot jelly under them, to keep them in their places, and let it hand till it is ftiff, then fill up your difh with more jelly.—They are a pretty decoration for a grand table. To make a Transparent Pudding. MAKE your calf’s foot jelly very ftiff, and when it is quite fine put a gill into a China ba- fon, let it ftand till it is quite fet; blanch a few Jordan almonds, cut them and a few jar raifins lengthways, cut a little citron and candied lemon in little thin flices, ftick them all over the jelly, and throw in a few currants, then pour more jelly on till it is an inch higher ; when your jelly is fet ftick in your almonds, raifins, citron, and candied lemon, with a few currants ftrewed in, then more jelly as before, then more almonds, raifins, citron, and lemon in layers, till your bafon is full ; let it ftand all night, and turn it out the fame way as the fifh-pond. To make a Desert Island. TAKE a lump of pafte, and form it into a rock three inches broad at the top, colour it, and fet it in the middle of a deep China difh, and fet a caft figure on it, with a crow on its head, and a knot of rock candy at the feet; then make a roll of pafte an inch thick, and ftick it on the inner edge of the difh, two parts round, and cut eight pieces of eringo roots about three inches long,200 THE EXPERIENCED long, and fix them upright to the roll of pafte on the edge ; make gravel walks of Ihot comfits, Irom the middle of the end of the difh, and fet fmail figures in them, roll out fome pafte, and cut it open like Chinefe rails; bake it, and fix It on either hue of one of the gravel walks with gum, have ready a web of ipunge fugar, and fet it on the pillars of eringo root, and cut part of the web oft to form an entrance where the Ch ne’e rails are.—It is a pretty middle difh for a lecond courfe at a grand table, or a wedding fupper, only fet two crowned figures on the mount inftead of one. To make a Floating Island. GRATE the yellow rind of a large lemon into a pint of cream, put in a large glafs of Madeira wine, make it pretty fvveet with loaf fugar, mill it with a chocolate mill to a ftrong froth, take it off as it rifes, then lay it upon a fieve to drain all night, then take a deep glafs difh, and lay in your froth, with a Naples bifcuit in the middie of it, then beat the white of an egg to a ftrong froth, and roll a fprig of myrtle "in it to imitate fnow, flick it in the Naples'bifcuit, then lay over your froth currant-jelly cut in very thin fiices, pour over it very fine ftrong calf’s foot jelly, when it grows thick lay it all over, till it looks like a glafs, and your difh is full to the brim; let it ftand till it is quite cold and ft iff, then lay on rock candied fweet-meats upon the top of your jelly, and fheep and fwans to pick at the myrtle; flick green l'prigs in two orENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 2.01 or three places on the top of your jelly, amongfl your fhapes; it looks very pretty in the middle of a table for fupper.—You mull not put the fhapes on the jelly till you are going to fend it to the table. To make a Floating Island a fecond Way. TAKE calf’s foot jelly that is fet, break it a little, but not too much, for it will make it frothy, and prevent it from looking clear; have ready a middle-fized turnip, and rub it over with gum water, or the white of an egg, then ftrew it thick over with green fhot comfits, and flick on the top of it a fprig of myrtle, or any other pretty green fprig, then put your broken jelly round it, fet fheep or fwans upon your jelly, with either a green leaf or a knot of apple pafte under them, to keep the jelly from diffolving; there are fheep and fwans made for that purpofe; you may put in fnakes, or any wild animals of the fame fort. To make a Rocky Island. MAKE a little fliff flummery, and put it into five fifh moulds, wet them before you put it in; when it is fliff, turn it out, and gild them with gold leaf, then take a deep China difh, fill it near full of clear calf’s foot jelly, and let it fland till it is fet, then lay on your fifhes, and a few flices of red currant-jelly cut very thin round them, then rafp a fmall French roll, and rub it over with the white of an egg, and flrew D d " all202 THE EXPERIENCED all ovqr it filver bran and glitter mixed together; Rick a ip rig of myrtle in it, and put it into the middle of your difh, beat the white of an egg to a very high froth, then hang it on your fprig of myrtle like fnow, and fill your difh to the brim with clear jelly; when you fend it to table, | put lambs and ducks upon your jelly, with either i green leaves or mofs under them, with their heads towards the myrtle. To make Moonshine. TAKE the fhapes of a half-moon, and five t or feven Ears, wet them, and fill them with flum- mery, let them ftand till they are cold, then turn them into a deep China difh, and pour lemon cream round them, made thus: Take a pint of fpring water, put to it the juice of three lemons, and the yellow rind of one lemon, the whites of five eggs well beaten, and four ounces of loaf fugar, then fet it over a flow fire, and flir it one way till it looks white and thick, if you let it boil it will curdle, then ftrain it through a hair fieve, and let it ftand till it is cold, beat the yolks of five eggs, mix them with your whites, fet them over the fire, and keep flirting it till it is almoft ready to boil, then pour it into abafon; when it is cold, pour it among your moon and Ears; garnifh with flowers.—It is a proper difh | for a fecond courfe, either for dinner or fupper. To make Moon and Stars in Jelly. - TAKE a deep China difh, turn the mould of a half moon, and feven flars, with the bottom fideENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 203 fide upward in the difh, lay a weight upon every mould to keep them down, then make fome flummery, and fill your difh with it; when it is cold and ftiff, take your moulds carefully out, and fill the vacancy with clear calf’s-foot jelly; you may colour your flummery with cochineal and chocolate to make it look like the Iky, and your moon and ftars will lhow more clear—gar- nifh with rock candy fweet-meats.—It is a pret- ty corner-difh, or a proper decoration for a grand table. To make Eggs and Bacon in Flummery. TAKE a pint of ftifF flummery, and make part of it a pretty pink colour with the colour- ing for the flummery, dip a potting-pot in cold water, and pour in red flummery the thicknefs of a crown-piece, then the fame of white flum- mery, and another of red, and twice the thick- nefs of white flummery at the top; one layer muft be ftiff and cold before you pour on ano- ther, then take five tea-cups, and put a large fpoonful of white flummery into each tea-cup, and let them ftand all night, then turn your flummery out of your potting-pots on the back of a plate, with cold water, cut your flum- mery into thin flices, and lay it on a China difh, then turn your flummery out of the cups on the difli, and take a bit out of the top of every one, and lay in half a preferved apri- cot ; it will confine the fyrup from difcolouring the flummery, and make it like the yolk of a D d 2 poached2°4 THE EXPERIENCED poached egg; garnhh with flowers.—It is a pret- ty corner-difli for dinner, or fide for fupper. * . ' * vJ .. 1 i\ A . ;' O!? & Ili pj 1 Solomon’s Temple /// Flummery. . MAKE a quart of ftiff flummery, divide it into three parts, make one part a pretty thick colour, with a little cochineal bruifed fine, and iteeped m French brandy; fcrape one ounce of c'locolate very fine, diffolve it in a little ftrong coffee, and mix it with another part of your urnmery, to make it a light ftone colour, the iafl part mull be white, then wet your temple mould, and fix it in a pot to hand even, then fill it up with chocolate flummery; let it ftand till the next day, then loofen it round with a pin, and fhake it loofe very gently, but do not dip your mould in warm water, it will take off the glofs, and fpoil the colour; when you turn it out, flick a fmall fprig or a flower ftalk down from the top of every point, it will ftrengthen them, and make it look pretty; lay round it rock candy Iweet-meats. It is proper for a corner-difli for a large table. To make Oatmeal Flummery. FAKE a pint of bruifed groats, and put three pints of fair water to them early in the morn- ing, and let it ftand till noon, then pour all the water off, and put in the fame quantity of water as before upon them, ftir it well, and let it ftand till four o’clock, then run it through a fieve or cloth,, •ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 205 cloth, then boil it, and keep ftirring it all the while, put in a fpoonful of water now and then as it boils, when it begins to thicken drop a little on a plate; when it leaves the plate it is enough: put it in glaffes to turn out. To make Cribbage Cards in Flummery. FILL five fquare tins the fize of a card with very ftiff flummery, when you turn them out have ready a little cochineal diflolved in brandy, and ftrain it through a muffin rag, then take a camel’s-hair pencil, and make hearts and dia- monds with your cochineal, then rub a little cochineal with a little eating oil upon a marble flab till it is very fine and bright, then make clubs and l'pades; pour a little Lifbon wine into the dilh, and fend it up. To make a Dish of Snow. TAKE twelve large apples, put them in cold water, and .fet them over a very flow fire, and when they are foft pour them upon a hair fieve, take off the fkin, and put the pulp into a bafon, then beat the whites of twelve eggs into a very ftrong froth, beat and lift half a pound of double- refined fugar, and ftrew it into the eggs, beat the pulp of your apples to a ftrong froth, then beat them all together till they are like a ftiff fnow, then lay it upon a China difh, and heap it up as high as you can, and fet round it green knots of pafte in imitation of Chinefe rails, ftick a fprig of myrtle in the middle of the difh, and ferve it up.—It is a pretty corner-difh for a large table.30 6 THE EXPERIENCED 7o make Black Caps. TAKE fix large apples, and cut a flice off the bloflom end, put them in a tin, and fet them in a quick oven till they are brown, then wet them with r.ofe water, and grate a little fugar over them, and fet them in the oven again till they look bright, and very black, then take them out, and put them into a deep China difh or plate, and pour round them thick cream cuftard, or white wine and fugar. .> To make Green Caps. TAKE codlings juft before they are ripe, green them as you would for preferving, then rub them over with a little oiled butter, grate double- refined fugar over them, and fet them in the oven till they look bright, and fparkle like froft, then take them out, and put them into a deep China difti, make a very fine cuftard, and pour it round them; ftick lingle flowers in every apple and ferve them up.—It is a pretty corner- difh for either dinner or fupper. To flew Pears. PARE the largeft ftewing pears, and ftick a clove in the bloflom end, then put them in a well- tinned fauce-pan, with a new pewter fpoon in the middle, fill it with hard water, and fet it over a flow fire for three or four hours, till your pears are foft, and the water reduced to a ftnall quantity, then put in as much loaf fugar as will makeENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 207 make it a thick fyrup, and give the pears a boil in it, then cut fome lemon peel like ftraws and hang them about your pears, and ferve them up with the fyrup in a deep difh. To make Lemon Syllabubs. TO a pint of cream put a pint of double- refined fugar, the juice of feven lemons, grate the rinds of two lemons into a pint of white wine, and half a pint of fack, then put them all into a deep |pot, and whifk them for half an hour, put it into glafies the night before you want it: it is better for handing two or three days, but it will keep a week if required. To make Lemon Syllabubs a fecond Way. PUT a pint of cream to a pint of white wine, then rub a quarter of a pound of loaf fugar upon the out rind of two lemons, till you have got out all the efience, then put the fugar to the cream, and fqueefe in the juice of both lemons, let it ftand for two hours, then mill them with a chocolate mill, to raife the froth, and take it off with a fpoon as it rifes, or it will make it heavy, lay it upon a hair fieve to drain, then fill your glafies with the remainder, and lay on the froth as high as you can, let them ftand all night and they will be clear at the bottom; fend them to the table upon a falver, with jellies. To make Solid Syllabubs. TAKE a quart of rich cream, and put in a pint of white wine, the juice of four lemons, and208 THE EXPERIENCED and Elgar to your tafte, whip it up very well, and take off the froth as it riles, put it upon a hair fieve, and let it Hand till the next day in a cool place, fill your glaffes better than half full with the thin, then put on the froth, and heap it as high as you canj the bottom will look clear, and keep feveral days. To make Whip Syllabubs. TAKE a pint of thin cream, rub a lump of loaf fugar on the outfide of the lemon, and fweeten it to your tafte, then put in the juice of a lemon, and a glafs of Madeira wine, or French brandy, mill it to a froth with a chocolate mill, and take it off as it rifes, and lay it upon a hair fieve, then fill one half of your poffet glaffes a little more than half full with white wine, and the other half of your glaffes a little more than half full of red wine, then lay on your froth as high as you can, but obferve that it is well drained on your fieve, or it will mix with your wine, and fpoil your fyllabubs. To make a Syllabub under the Cow. PUT a bottle of ftrong beer and a pint of cyder into a punch-bowl, grate in a fmall nut- meg, and fweeten it to your tafte ; then milk as much milk from the cow as will make a ftrong froth, and the ale look clear, let it ftand an hour, then ftrew over it a few currants, well waftied, picked, and plumped before the fire, then fend it to the table. CHAP. lENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 209 CHAP. VII. Obfer vat ions: on Preserving. WHEN you make any kind of jelly, take care you do not let any of the feeds from the fruit fall into your jelly, nor fqueeze it too near, for that will prevent your jelly from being fo clear; pound your fugar, and let it difl'olve in the fyrup before you fet it on the fire, it makes the fcum rife well, and the jelly a better colour: it is a great fault to boil any kind of jellies too high, it makes them of a dark colour; you mull never keep green fweet-meats in the firft fyrup longer than the receipt direds, left: you fpoil their colour; you muft take the fame care with oranges and lemons; as to cherries, damfons, and moft forts of ftone fruit, put over them either mutton luet rendered, or a board to keep them down, or they will rife out of the fyrup and fpoil the whole jar, by giving them a four bad tafte: obferve to keep all wet fweet-meats in a dry cool place, for a wet, damp place will make them mould, and a hot place will dry up the virtue, and make them candy. The beft diredion I can give is to dip writing-paper in brandy, and lay it clofe to your fweet-meats, tie them well down with white paper, and two folds of thick cap- paper, to keep out the air, for nothing can be a greater fault than bad tying down, and leaving the pots open. E e Tothe experienced 2 10 To make Orange Jelly. TAKE half a pound of hartfhorn fhavings, and two quarts of fpring water, let it boil till it be 1 educed to a quart, pour it clear off, let it ftann till it is cold, then take half a pint of fpring watet, and the rind of three oranges pared very thin, and the juice of fix; let them hand all night, ft lain them through a fine hair fieve, melt thejelly. and pour the orange liquor to it, fweeten it to your tafte with double-refined fugar; nut to it a blade or two of mace, four or five cloves, half a fmall nutmeg, and the rind of a lemon, beat the whites of five eggs to a froth, mix it very well with your jelly, let it over a clear fire, boil it three or four minutes, run it through your jelly-bags feveral times till it is clear, and when you pour it into your bag take great care you do not fhake it. To make Hartshorn Jelly. PUT two quarts of water into a clean pan, with half a pound of hartfhorn fhavings, let it fimmer till near one half is reduced, ftrain it off, then put in the peel of four oranges and two lemons pared very thin, boil them five minutes, put to it the juice of the before-mentioned le- mons and oranges, with about ten ounces of double-refined fugar, beat the whites of fix eggs to a froth, mix them carefully with your jelly, that you do not poach the eggs, juft let it boil up, and run it thro’ a jelly-bag till it is clear.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 21 I To make Red Currant Jelly. GATHER your currants when they are dry and full ripe, ftrip them off the ftalks, put them in a large ftew-pot, tie the paper over them, and let them ftand an hour in a cool oven, ftrain them through a cloth, and to every quart of juice add a pound and a half of loaf fugar, broken in fmall lumps, ftir it gently over a clear fire till your fugar is melted, fkim it well, let it boil pretty quick twenty minutes, pour it hot into your pots; if you let it ftand it will break the jelly, it will not fet fo well when it is hot; put brandy-papers over them, and keep them in a dry place for ufe. N. B.—You may make jelly of half red and half white currants the fame way. To make Black Currant Jelly. GET your currants when they are ripe and dry, pick them off the ftalks, and put them in a large ftew-pot; to every ten quarts of currants put a quart of water, tie a paper over them, and fet them into a cool oven for two hours, then fqueeze them through a very thin cloth; to every quart of juice add a pound and a half of loaf fugar broken in fmall pieces, ftir it gently till the fugar is melted; when it boils fkim it well, let it boil pretty thick for half an hour over a clear fire, then pour it into pots; put brandy-pa- pers over them, and keep them for ufe. E e 2 ToTHE EXPERIENCED To V To make Apricot Jam. Fa.Rii the ripeft apricots you can get, cut j em 'Ain, infufe them in an earthen pan till t'le7 £--;- ynder and dry; then to every pound and a half of apricots put a pound of double-re- uned hagar, and three fpoonfuls of water; boil J0m ,uSar f-° a candy height, then put it upon - - 2 .1 apricots, ftir them over a flow fire till they i'JO c clear and thick, but do not let them boil, '-idy fimmer; put them in glaffes for ufe. f To make Red Raspberry Jam. GATHJiR your rafpberries when they are ripe and dry, pick them very carefully from the fralks and dead ones, crufh them in a bowl with a falver or wooden fpoon, pewter is apt to turn them a ^purple colour; as foon as you have ci ufhed them, ftrew in their own weight of loaf fugar, and half their weight of currant juice, baked and ffrained as for jelly, then fet them over a clear flow fire, boif them half an hour, fkim them well, and keep ftirring them at the , pme, then put them into pots or glaffes, with brandy-papers over them, and keep them for ule. N. B. As foon as you have got your berries ftrew in your fugar; do not let them ftand long before you boil them; it will pre- ferve their flavour.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 213 To make White Raspberry Jam. GET your rafpberries dry and full ripe, crufh them fine, and drew in their own weight of loaf fugar, and half their -weight of the juice of white currants, boil them half an hour over a clear, flow fire, fkim them well, and. put them into pots or glaffes, tie t^iem down with brandy- papers, and keep them dry for ufe.—N. B. Strew in your fugar as in the red rafpberry jam. To make Red Strawberry Jam. GATHER the fcarlet ftrawberries very ripe, bruife them very fine, and put tp them a little juice of ftrawberries, beat and ftft their weight in fugar, ftrew it among them, and put them in the preferving-pan, fet them over a clear, flow fire, fkim them, and boil them twenty minutes, then put them in pots or glaffes for ufe. To make Green Gooseberry Jam. TAKE the green walnut .goofeberries when they are full growm, but not ripe, cut them in two and pick out the feeds, then put them in a pan of water, green them as you do the goofe- berries in imitation of hops, and lay them on a fieve to drain, then beat them in a marble mor- tar, with their weight in fugar, then take a quart of goofeberries, boil them to mafh in a pint of water, then fqueeze them, and to every pint of liquor put a pound of fine loaf fugar, boil and fkim it, then put in your green goofeberries, boil214 the experienced boil them till they are pretty thick, clear, and a pretty green, then put them in glafles for ufe. To make Black Currant Jam. GET your black currants when they are full ripe, pick them clear from the ftalks, and bruife them in a bowl with a wooden mallet, to every two pounds of currants put a pound and a half of loaf fugar beat fine, put them into a preferv- ing-pan, boil them full half an hour, fkim it and ftir it all the time, then put it in pots and keep it for ufe. •/ . • To prcferve Red Currants in Bunches. STONE your currants, and tie fix or feven bunches together with a thread to a piece of fplit deal about the length of your fugar, weigh the currants, and put their weight of double-refined fugar in your preferving-pan, with a little water, and boil it till the fugar flies, then put the cur- rants in, and juft give them a boil up, and cover them till next day, then take them out, and either dry them or put them in glafles, with the fyrup boiled up with a little of the juice of red currants; put brandy-paper over them, and tie them clofe down with another paper, and fet them in a dry place. To preferve White Currants in Bunches. STONE your currants, and tie them in bunches as before, and put them in a preferving- pan,ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 21- pan, with their weight of double-refined fugar, beat and lifted fine, let them ftand all night, then take fome pippins, pare, core, and boil them, but do not ftir the apples, only prefs them down with the back of your fpoon; when the water is ftrong of the apples, add to it the juice of a lemon, {train it through a jelly-bag till it runs quite clear; to every pint of your liquor put a pound of double-refined fugar, boil it up to a ftrong jelly, put to it your currants, and boil them till they look clear, cover them in the preferving-pan with paper till they are almoft cold, then put a bunch of currants in your glaffes, and fill it up with jelly; when they are cold, wet paper in brandy, and lay over them, tie another on, and fet them in a dry place. To preferve Currants for Tarts. GET your currants when they are dry, and pick them; to every pound and a quarter of cur- rants put a pound of fugar into a preferving-pan, with as much juice of currants as will diflolve it; when it boils, fkim it and put in your cur- rants, and boil them till they are clear; put them into a jar, lay brandy-paper over, tie them down, and keep them in a dry place. To prefervc Cucumbers. TAKE fmall cucumbers and large ones that will cut into quarters, the greeneft and moft free from feeds you can get, put them in a ftrong fait and water, in a ftrait mouth jar, with a cab- bage2i6 THE EXPERIENCED To i Morello cherries are done the fame way. bage leaf to keep them down, tie a paper over them, fet them in a warm place till they are yellow, wafh them out, and fet them over the fire in frefh water, with a little fait in, and a frefh cabbage leaf over them, cover the pan very clofe, but take care they do not boil; if they are not a fine green, change your water (it will help them) and make them hot, and cover them as before; when they are a good green, take them off the fire, let them ftand till they are cold, then cut the large ones in quarters, take out the feeds and foft" part, then put them in cold water, and let them ftand two days, but change the water twice each day to take out the fait, take a pound of fingle-refined fugar, and half a pint of water, fet it over the fire; when you have fkimmed it clear, put in the rind of a lemon, one ounce of ginger, with the outfide fcraped off: when your lyrup is pretty thick, take it off, and when it is cold wipe the cu- cumbers dry, and put them in, boil the fyrup once in two or three days for three weeks, and ftrengthen the fyrup, if required, for the great- eft danger of fpoiling them is at firft. The fyrup is to be quite cold when you put it to your cucumbers. To preferve Grapes in Brandy. TAKE fome clofe bunches of grapes, but not too ripe, either red or white, put them into a jar, with a quarter of a pound of fugar-candy, and fill the jar with common brandy, tie it clofe with a bladder, and fet them in a dry place.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 172 To preferve Kentish or Golden Pippins* BOIL the rind of ail orange very tender, then Slay it in water for two or three days, take a quart of golden pippins, pare, core, quarter, and boil I them to a ftrong jelly, and run it through a jelly— 1 bag, then take twelve pippins, pare them, and fcrape out the cores; put two pounds of loal fugar into a ftew-pan, with near a pint of water, when it boils fkim it, and put in your pippins, with the orange rind in thin dices, let them boil faft till the fugar is very thick and will almoft candy, then put in a pint of the pippin jelly, boil them faft till the jelly is clear, then fqueeze in the juice of a lemon, give it one boil, and put them into pots or glaffes, with the orange peel. To preferve Green Codlings that will keep all the Tear. TAKE codlings about the fize -of a walnut, with the ftalks and a leaf or two on, put a hand- ful of vine leaves into a brafs pan of fpring wa- ter, then a layer of codlings, then vine leaves, lo fo till the pan is full, cover it clofe, ' that no learn can get out, let it on a flow fire; when .hey are foft take off the {kins with a penknife, :hen put them in the fame water with the vine eaves; it muft be quite cold or it will be apt 0 crack them, put a little roach allum, and fet hem over a very flow fire till they are green which will be in three or four hours) then take £ f themTHE EXPERIENCED 2 I 8 them out, and lay them on a fieve to drain. Make a good fyrup, and give them a gentle boil once a day for three days, then put them in fmall jars ; put brandy-paper over them, and keep them for ufe. To preferve Green Apricots. GATHER your apricots before the Hones- are hard, put them into a pan of hard water, with plenty of vine leaves, let them over a flow fire till they are quite yellow, then take them out and rub them with a flannel and fait to take off the lint, put them into the pan to the fame water and leaves, cover them clofe, fet them a great diftance from the fire till they are a fine light green, then take them carefully up, pick out all the bad-coloured and broken ones, boil the bed gently two or three times in a thin fyrup, let them be quite cold every time; when they look plump and clear, make a fyrup of double-refined fugar, but not too thick, give your apricots a gentle boil in it, then put them into pots or i glades, dip paper in brandy, lay it over them,, and keep them for ufe; then take all the brokeni and bad-coloured ones, and boil them in the firftt fyrup for tarts. To prefer ve Gooseberries green. TAKE green-walnut goofeberries when they- are full grown, and take out the feeds, put them in cold water, cover them clofe with vine leaves, and fet them over a flow fire; when they are hotENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 219 take them off, and let them (land, and when they are cold let them on again till they are pretty green, then put them on a 1'ieve to diain, and have ready a fyrup made of a pound of dou- ble-refined lugar, and half a pint of lprmg water; the fyrup is to be cold when the gooiebeiries are put in, and boil them till they are clear, then let them by a day or two, then give them two or three fcalds, and put them into pots or glaffes for ufe. To prefervc Grfen Gooseberries in Imitation of I-Iops. TAKE the largeft green walnut goofeberries you can get, cut them at the ftalk end in foul quarters, leave them whole at the bloffom end, then take out all the feeds, and put five or fix one in another, take a needleful of ftrong thread, with a large knot at the end, run the needle through the bunch of gooleberries, and tie a knot to fallen them together (they relemble hops) and put cold fpring water in your pan, a large handful of vine leaves in the bottom, and three or four layers of goofeberries, with plenty of vine leaves between every layer, and over the top of your pan; cover it fo that no fteam can get out, and fet them on a flow fire, when they are Raid- ing hot take them off, and let them Hand till they are cold, then let them on again, till they are a good green, then take them off and let them Hand till they are quite cold, then put them in a fieve to drain; make a thin fyrup; to every pint of water put in a pound of common E f 2 ■loat220 the experienced loaf fugai boil it and fkim it well: when it is about half eoW put in your goofeberries, and let them fend till the next day, then give them one boil a day for three days, then make a fyrup: to every pint of water put a pound of fine fugar, a ilice of ginger, and a little lemon peel cut length- ways exceeding fine, boil and fkim it well, give your goofeberries a boil in it; when they are cold put them into glailes or pots, lay papers dipped in brandy over them, tie them up, and keep them for ufe. To preferve Sprigs green. GATHER the fprigs of muftard when it is going to feed, put them in a pan of fpring water, with a great many vine leaves under and over them, put to them one ounce of roach allum, let it over a gentle fire, when it is hot take it off, and let it Hand till it is quite cold, then covei it very clofe, and hang it a great height over a flow fire; when they are green, take out t e fprigs, and lay them on a fieve to drain, then make a good fyrup, boil your fprigs in it once a day for three days, put them in, and keep them for ufe. They are very pretty to flick in the middle of a preferved orange, or garnifh a fet of fa.vers.—You may preferve young pears when they are juft come into pod the fame way. To preferve Grfen Gage Plums. TAKE the fineft plums you can get juft be- fore they are ripe, put them in a pan, with a layer of vine leaves at the bottom of your pan, then a layer of plums, do fo till your pan is almofl full, then fill it with water, let them on a flow fire;ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 221 fire; when they are hot, and their Ikins begin to j rile, take them off, and take the Ikins carefully off, put them on a fieve as you do them, then lay them in the fame water, with a layer of leaves betwixt, as you did at the firft, cover them very j clofe, fo that no fteam can get out, and hang them at a great diftance from the fire till they are green, which will be five or fix hours at leaft, I then take them carefully up, lay them on a hair fieve to drain, make a good fyrup, give them a gentle boil in it twice a-day, for two days, take them out and put them into a fine clear fyrup; put paper dipped in brandy over them, and keep them for ufe. To prefervc Walnuts black. TAKE the Imall kind of walnuts, put them in fait and water, change the water every day for nine days, then put them in a fieve, let them Hand in the air until they begin to turn black, then put them into a jug, and pour boiling wa- ter over them, and let them Hand till the next day, then put them in a fieve to drain, ftick a clove into each end of your walnut, put them into a pan of boiling water, let them boil five minutes, then take them up; make a thin fyrup, fcald them in it three or four times a-day till your walnuts are black and bright, then make a thick fyrup with a few cloves and a little ginger cut in flices, fkim it well, put in your walnuts, boil them five or fix minutes, and then put them in your jars; wret your paper with brandy, lay it over them, and tie them down • with /222 THE EXPERIENCED I with bladders. The firft year they are a little bitter, but the fecond year they will be very good. To prefervc Walnuts green. TAKE large French walnuts when they are a little larger than a good nutmeg, wrap every walnut in vine leaves, tie it round with a firing, then put them into a large quantity of fait and water, let them lie in it for three days, then put them in frefh fait and water, and let them lie in that for three days longer, then take them out, and lay a large quantity of vine leaves in the bottom of your pan, then a layer of walnuts, then vine leaves, do fo till your pan is full, but take great care the walnuts do not touch one another; fill your pan with hard water, with a little bit | of roach allum, fet it over the fire till the water is very hot, but do not let it boil, take it off, let them Hand in the water till it is quite cold, then I fet them, over the fire again; when they are ! green, take the pan off the fire, and when the. water is quite cold take out the walnuts, lay | them on a fieve a good diftance from each other, have ready a thin fyrup boiled and fkimmed; i when it is pretty cool put in your walnuts, let them Hand all night, the next day give them, feveral fealds, but do not let them boil, keepi your preferving-pan clofe covered, and when yom fee that they look bright, and a pretty colour, have ready made a rich fyrup of fine loaf fugar, with a few flices of ginger, and two or three blades of mace, feald your walnuts in it, put; them in fmall jars, with paper dipped in brandy .overENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 223 over them, tie them down with bladders, and keep them for ufe. To preferve Walnuts white. TAKE the large French walnuts full grown, but not fhelled, pare them till you fee the white appear, put them in fait and water as you do them, have ready boiling a large fauce-pan full of foft water, boil them in it five minutes, take them up, and lay them betwixt two cloths till you have made a thin fyrup, boil them gently in it for four or five minutes, then put them in a jar, flop them up clofe, that no Ream can get out, if it does it will fpoil the colour; the next day boil them again; when they are cold, make^ a frefh thick fyrup, with two or three fiices ot ginger and a blade of mace, boil and fkim it well, then give your walnuts a boil in it, and put them in glafs jars, with papers dipped in — brandy laid over them, and tie bladders over them to keep out the air. To make Orange Marmalade. TAKE the cleared Seville oranges you can get, cut them in two, then take out all the pulp and juice into a bafon, pick all the feeds and Ikins out of it, boil the rinds in hard water till they are tender, (change the water two or three times while they are boiling) then pound them in a marble mortar, add to it the juice and pulp, and put them in a preferving-pan, with double its weight of loaf fugar, fet it over a flow fire,224 THE experienced j30.1! 5t a 15ttle more than half an hour, then put it into pots, with brandy-papers over them. To make Transparent Makmalade. TARE very pale Seville oranges, cut them in quarters, take out the pulp, and put it into a bafon, pick the {kins and leeds out, put the pee^s in a little fait-and water, let them ftand all night, then boil them in a good quantity of fpring water till they are tender, then cut them in very thin flices, and put them to the pulp; to every pound of marmalade put a pound and a half of double-refined fugar beaten fine, boil them to- gether gently for twenty minutes; if it is not clear and tranfparent, boil it five or fix minutes long r, keep ftirring it gently all the time, and take care you do not break the flices ; when it is cold, put it into jelly or fweet-meat glafles, tie them down with brandy-papers over them. They are pretty for a defert of any kind. To make Quince Marmalade. GET your quinces when they are full ripe, pare them and cut them into quarters, then take out the core, and put them into a fauce-pan that is well tinned, cover them with the parings, fill the fauce-pan near full of fpring water, cover it clofe and let them flew over a flow fire till they are foft, and a pink colour, then pick out all your quinces from the parings, beat them to a pulp in a marble mortar, take their weight of fine loaf fugar, put as much water to it as will diflolve it, boil and fkim it well, then put in - your ■ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 22f ; your quinces, and boil them gently three quarters of an hour, keep ftirring it all the time, or it will hick to the pan and burn; when it is cold put it into flat fweet-meat pots, and tie it down with brandy-paper. To make Apricot Marmalade. WHEN you preferve your apricots, pick out all the bad ones, and thofe that are too ripe for keeping, boil them in the fyrup till they will mafh, then beat them in a marble mortar to a pafte; take half their weight of loaf fugar, and put as much water to it as will diflolve it, boil and fkim it well, boil them till they look clear, and the fyrup thick like a fine jelly, then put it into your fweet-meat glafles, and keep them for ufe. To preferve Green Pine-Apples. GET your pine-apples before they are ripe, and lay them in ftrong fait and water five days, then put a large handful of vine leaves in the bottom of a large fauce-pan, and put in your pine-apples, fill your pan with vine leaves, then pour on the fait and water it was laid in, cover it up very dole, and fet it over a flow fire, let it Hand till it is a fine light green, have ready a thin fyrup, made of a quart of water and a pound of double-refined fugar; when it is almoft cold put it into a deep jar, and put in the pine- apple with the top on, let it Hand a week, and take care that it is well covered with the fyrup, G g then.226 THE EXPERIENCED To then 'boil your fyrup again, and pour it carefully into your jar, left you break the top of your pine-apple, and let it ftand eight or ten weeks, ahd give the fyrup two or three boils to keep it from moulding, let your fyrup ftand till it is iieai cold betoie you pour it on; when your pine-apple looks quite lull and green, take it cut of the fyrup, and make a thick fyrup of three pounds ol double-refined fugar, with as much water as will diffolve it, boil and fkim it well, put a few dices of white ginger in it; when it is near cold, pour it upon your pine-apple, tie it down with a bladder, and the pine-apple will keep many years, and not ftirink; but if you put it into thick fyrup at the firft, it will Ihrink, for the ftrength of the fyrup draws out tiie juice, and fpoils it.- iV. Jj. It is a grea.t fault to put any kind of fruit that is preferred whole into thick fyrup at firft. To prcfervc Red Gooseberries. TO every quart of rough red goofeberries put a pound of loaf fugar, put your fugar into a preferving-pan, with as much water as will dif- folve it, boil and fkim it well, then put in your goofeberries, let them boil a little, and fet them by till the next day, then boil them till they look clear, and the fyrup thick, then put them into pots or glafies, cover them with brandy- papers, and keep them for ufe.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 227 To prcfcrve Strawberries whole. GET the fineft fcarlet ftrawberries with their ftalks on, before they are too ripe, then lay them feparately on a China diih, beat and fift twice their weight of double-refined fugar, and iftrew it over them, then take a few ripe fcarlet ftraw- berries, crufh them, and put them, into a jar, with their weight of double-refined fugar beat final 1, cover them dole, and let them ftand in a kettle of boiling water till they are foft, and the fiyrup is come out of them, then ftrain them through a muffin rag into a toffing-pan, boil and fkim it well, when it is cold put in your whole llrawberries, and let them over the fire till they are milk warm, then take them off, and let them Hand till they are quite cold, then fet them on again and make them a little hotter, do fo le- veral times till they look clear, but do not let them boil, it will fetch the ftalks off; when the ftrawberries are cold, put them into jelly-glaffes, with’ the ftalks downwards, and fill up your glaftes with the fyrup; tie them down with brandy-papers over them.—They are very pretty amongft jellies and creams, and proper for Pet- ting out a defert of any kind. To prcfervc White Raspberries whole. GET your rafpberries when they are turning white, with the ftalks on about an inch long, lay them fingle on a difh, beat and fift their weight of double-refined fugar, ftrew it over G g 2 them*228 THE EXPERIENCED them; to every quart of rafpberries take a quart of white currant juice, put to it its weight of double-refined fugar, boil and fkim it well, then ?uyouriafpb.e7ies and sive them a rcald> take them off and let them hand for two hours, en fet them on again, and make them a little hotter, do fo for two or three times, till they ook clear, but do not let them boil, it will make the (talks come off; when they are pretty cool, put them into jelly-glades with the (talks down, and keep them for ufe.—N. B. You may pre- ierve red rafpberries the fame way, only take red currant juice inftead of white. i To preferve Morello Cherries. GET your cherries when they are full ripe, take out the (talks and prick them with a pin • to every two pounds of cherries put a pound and a half of loaf fngar, beat part of your fugar and drew it over them, let them (tand all night, dif- folve the reft of your fugar in half a pint of the juice of currants, fet it over a (low fire, and put in the cherries with the fugar, and give them a gentle feald, let them ftand all night again, and give them another feald, then take them care- fully out, and boil your fyrup till it is thick, then pour it upon your cherries ; if you find it be too thin boil it again. \ To preferve Barberries in Bunches. TAKE the female barberries, pick out all the |fr£eft bunches> then Pick the reft from the (talks, put them in as much water as will make a fy-ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 229 a fyrup of your bunches, boil them till they are foft, then ftrain them through a fieve; to every pint of the juice put a pound and a half of loaf fugar, boil and fkim it well, and to every pint of fyrup put half a pound of barberries in bunches, boil them till they look very fine and clear, then put them carefully into pots and glades ; tie brandy-papers over, and keep them for ufe. To preferve Barberries for Tarts. PICK the female barberries clean from the fialks, then take their weight of loaf fugar, put them in a jar, and fet them in a kettle of boiling water till the fugar is melted, and the barberries quite foft, the next day put them in a pre- Terving-pan, and boil them fifteen minutes, then put them in jars, and put them in a dry, cool place. To,preferve Damsons. TAKE the fmall long damfons, pick off the fialks, and prick them with a pin, then put them into a deep pot, with half their weight of loaf fugar pounded, fet them in a moderate oven till they are foft, then take them off, and give the fyrup a boil, and pour it upon them, do fo two or three times, then take them care- fully out, and put them into the jars you intend to keep them in, and pour over them rendered mutton fuet; tie a bladder over them, and keep them for ufe in a very cool place. Tothe experienced 2 3° To prefer vc Magnum Bonum Plums. TAKE the large yellow plums, put them in a panful of fpring water, fet them over a flow fn e, keep putting them down with a Ipoon till you find the fkin will come off, then take them tip and peel the fkin off with a penknife, put them in a fine thin fyrup and give them a gentle boil, then take them off, and turn them pretty often in the fyrup, or the outfide will turn brown; when they are quite cold, fet them over the fiie again, let them boil five or fix minutes, then take them off, and turn them very often in the lyrup till they are near cold, then take them out, and lay them feparately on a flat China difh, flrain the fyrup through a muflin rag: add to it the weight of the plums*of fine loaf fugar, boil and fkim it very well, then put in your plums, boil them till they look clear, then put them carefully into jars or glaffes, cover them well with the fyrup, or they will lofe their colour, put brandy-papers and a bladder over them. Topreferve Wine Sours. TAKE the finefl: wine fours you can get, pick off the ftalks, run down the feam with a pin only fkin deep, then take half their weight of loaf fugar pounded, and lay it betwixt your plums in layers till your jar is full, fet them in a kettle of boiling water till they are foft, then drain the fyrup from them, and give it a boil, and pour it on them, do fo feveral times, till youENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 231 you fee the fkin look hard and the plums clear, let them hand a week, then take them out one by one, and put them into glades, jars, or pots, give your fyrup a boil, if you have not fyrup enough boil a little clarified-fugar with your fyrup, and fill up your glalfes, jars, or pots with it, and put brandy-papers over, and tie a bladder over them to keep out the air, or they will lofe their colour, and grow a purple. They are pretty with either fteeple cream, or any kind of flummeries, or under a filver web. To preferve Apricots. PARE your apricots, and thruft out the ftones with a ikewer, to every pound of apricots put a pound of loaf fugar, ftrew part of it over them, and let them fiand till the next dav, then give them a gentle boil three or four different times, let them go cold between every time, take them out of the fyrup one by one, the laft time as you boil them fkim your fyrup well, boil it till it looks thick and clear, then pour it over your apricots, and put brandy-papers over them. To pj-cfcrve Peaches. GET the largeft peaches before they are too- ripe, rub off the lint with a cloth, then run them down the ieam with a pin, fkin deep, cover them with French brandy, tie a bladder over them, and let them fland a week, then take them out, and make a ftrong fyrup for them, boil and fkim it well, put in your peaches, and boil232 THE EXPERIENCED boil them till they look clear, then take them out, and put them into pots or glafles; mix the fyrup with the brandy, when it is cold pour it on your peaches; tie them clofe down with a bladder that the air cannot get in, or the peaches will turn black. To prcferve Quinces whole. PARE your quinces very thin and round, that they may look like a fcrew, then put them into a well-tinned fauce-pan, with a new pewter fpoon in the middle of them, and fill your fauce- pan with hard water, and lay the parings over your quinces, to keep them down, cover your fauce-pan fo clofe that the fleam cannot get out, fet them over a flow fire till they are foft, and a fine pink colour, let them ftand till they are cold, and make a good fyrup of double-refined fugar, boil and fkim it well, then put in your quinces, let them boil ten minutes,* take them off, and let them ftand two or three hours, then boil them till the fyrup looks thick, and the quinces clear, then put them into deep jars, with brandy-papers and leather over them; keep them in a dry place for ufe. N. B. You may pre- ferve quinces in quarters the fame way. To preferve Oranges carved. TAKE the faireft Seville oranges you can get, cut the rinds with a penknife in what form you pleafe, draw out the part of your peel as you cut them, and put them into fait and hard water.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 233 water, let them Hand for three days to take out. the bitter, then boil them an hour in a large fauce-pan of frefh water, with fait in it, but do not cover them, it will fpoil the colour, then take them out of the fait and water, and boil them ten minutes in a thin fyrup for four or five days together, then put them into a deep jar, let them Hand two months, and then make a thick fyrup, and juft give them a boil in it, let them ftand till the next day, then put them in your jar, with brandy-papers over; tie them down with a bladder, and keep them for ufe. N. B. You may preferve whole oranges with- out carving the fame way, only do not let them boil fo long, and keep them in a very thin fyrup at firft, or it will make them fhrink and wither* —Always obferve to put fait in the water for either oranges preferved Or any kind of orange chips. To preferve Oranges in Jelly. TAKE Seville oranges, and cut a hole out at the ftalk as large as a fixpence, and fcoop out the pulp quite clean, tie them feparately in muflin, and lay them in fpring water for two days, change the water twice a-day, then boil them" in the muflin till tender upon a flow fire, as the water waftes put hot water into the pan, and keep them covered, weigh the oranges before you fcoop them, and to every pound put two pounds of double-refined fugar, and one pint of water, boil the fugar and water with the juice of the oranges to the fyrup, fkim it very well, let it H h ftand r234 THE EXPERIENCED Hand till cold, then put in the oranges, and boil them half an hour; if they are not quite clear, boil them once a-day for two or three days; pare and core fome green pippins, and boil them till the water is ftrong of the apple, but do not ftir the apples, only put them down in the water with the back of afpoon, ftrain the water through a jelly-bag till quite clear, then to every pint of water put one pound of double-refined fugar, and the juice of a lemon drained fine, boil it up to a ftrong jelly, drain the oranges out of the fprup, put them into glafs jars, or pots of the fize of an orange, with the holes upward, and pour the jelly over them, cover them with brandy-papers, and tie them clofe down with bladders.—N. B. You may do lemons the fame way. To preferve Lemons. CARVE or pare your lemons very thin, and make a round hole on the tbp the fize of a {hil- ling, take out all the pulp and {kins, rub them with fait, and put them in fpring water as you. do them, to prevent them from turning black,, let them lie in for five or fix days, then boil therm in frelh fait and water fifteen minutes, have ready made a thin fyrup of a quart of water,, and a pound of loaf fugar, boil them in it five: minutes, once a-day, for four or five days, them put them in a large jar, let them Hand for fix; or eight weeks, and it will make them look, clear and plump, then take them out of that fyrup, or they will mould; make a fyrup of fine fugar, put as much water to it as will dif- folve:ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 235 folve it, boil and Ikim it, then put in your lemons, and boil them gently till they are clear, then put them into ajar with brandy-papers over, tie them dole down, and keep them in a dry place for ufe. To prcferve Oranges with Marmalade. PARE your oranges as thin as you can, then cut a hole in the ftalk end, the fize of a fix- pence, take out all the pulp, then put your oranges in fait and water, boil them a little more than an hour, but do not cover them, it will turn them a bad colour, have ready made a fyrup ot a pound rtf fine loaf fugar with a pint of water, put in your oranges, boil them till they look clear, then pick out all the fkins and pippins out of your pulp, and cut one of your oranges into it, as thin as pofiible, and take its weight of double-refined fugar, boil it in a clean tofling- pan over a flow clear fire, till it looks quite clear and tranfparent, when it is cold take your oranges out, and fill them with your marmalade, put on your top, and put them in youi fyrup again, let them Hand for two months, then make a fyrup of double-refined fugar, with as much water as will diflolve it, boil and fkim it well, then give your oranges a boil in it; put brandy-papers over, and tie them down with a bladder: they will keep for feveral years. H h 2 *THE experienced To make Bullace Cheese. TAKE your bullace when they are full ripe put them into a pot, and to every quart of bul- lace put a quarter of a pound of loaf fugar beat mall, bake them in a moderate oven till they are loft, then rub them through a hair fieve, to every pound of pulp add half a pound of loaf ugar beat fine, then boil it an hour, and a half over a flow fire, and keep flirring it all the time, then pour it into potting-pots, and tie brandy- papers over them, and keep them in a dry place; when it has flood a few months it will cut out very bright and fine.—K B. You may make floe cheefe the fame way. To make Elder Rob. GATHER your elderberries when they are fuil ripe, pick them clean from the flalks, put them in large llew-pots, and tie a paper over them, put them in a moderate oven, let them fland two hours, then take them out, and put them in a thin coarfe cloth and fqueeze out all the juice you can get, then put eight quarts into a well-tinned copper, fet it over a flow fire, let it boil till it be reduced to one quart, when it grows near done, keep flirring it, to prevent its burning to the bottom, then put it into potting- pots, let it fland two or three days in the fun, then dip a paper in fweet-oil the fize of your pot, and lay it on, tie it down with a bladder, and keep it in a very dry place for ufe. TetENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 2^7 To make Black Currant Rob. GET your currants when they are ripe, pick, bake, and fqueeze them the fame as you did the elderberries, then put fix quarts of the juice into a large toffing-pan, boil it over a flow fire till it is pretty thick, keep ftirring it till it is reduced to one quart, pour it into fiat pots, dry it, and tie it down the fame way as you did your elder rob. To Jlew Pippins whole. PARE and core your pippins, and throw them into fair water as you pare them, then take the weight of the fruit of double-refined fugar, and diflolve it in a quart of water, then boil it up, and feum it clean, then put in the fruit, let them flew gently till they are tender, and look clear, then take them out, and fqueeze in the juice of a large lemon, and let it boil up, feum it and run it thro’ a jelly-bag upon the fruit; you may ftick the pippins with candied oranges and lemons cut in thin fiic.es, if you pleafe. C El A P. IX. Obfervations on Drying and Candying. Before you candy any fort of fruit, pre- ferve them firft, and dry them in a ftove, or before the fire, till the fyrup is run out of them.-33 THE EXPERIENCED them, then boil your fugar candy height, dip in the fruit, and lay them in cHfhes in your ftove till dry, then put them in boxes, and keep them in a dry place. To make Apricot Paste. PARE and ftone your apricots, boil them in water till they will mafti quite fmall, put a pound of double-rehned lugar in your preferving-pan, with as much water as will diffolve it, and boil it to fugar again, take it off the ftove, and put in a pound of apricots, let it ftand till the fugar is melted, then make it fcalding hot, but do not let it boil, pour it into China difties, or cups, fet them in a ftove, when they are ftiff enough to turn out put them on glafs plates, turn them, as you fee occafton, till they are dry. To make Raspberry Paste. MASH a quart of rafpberries, ftrain one half, and put the juice to the other half, boil them a quarter of an hour, put to them a pint of red currant juice, let them boil all together till your berries are enough, put a. pound and a half of double-refined fugar into a clean pan, with as much fugar as will diifolve it, and boil it to a fugar again, then put in your berries and juice, give them a fcald, and pour it into glafles or plates, then put them into a ftove to dry, and turn them as you fee occafion. ToENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 239 To make Gooseberry Paste. TAKE a pound of red goofeberries when they are full grown and turned, but not ripe, cut tnem in halves, pick out all the feeds, have ready a pint of currant juice, boil your goofeberries in it till they are tender, put a pound and a halt ot double-refined fugar into your pan, with as much water as will diffolve it, and boil it to fugar again, then put all together and make it fealding hot, but it muff not boil, pour it into plates or glalies the thicknefs you like, then dry it in a hove. To make Currant Paste either red or white. STRIP your currants, put a little juice to them to keep them from burning, boil them well, and rub them through a hair fieve, then boil it a quarter of an hour: to a pint of juice put a pound and a half of double-refined fugar lifted, fhake in your fugar, when it is melted pour it on plates, dry it as the other paftes, and turn it into what form you pleafe. To make Currant Clear Cake. STRIP and wafh your currants, to four quarts of currants put one quart of water, boil them very well, then run it through a jelly-bag; to a pint of jelly put a pound and a half of double- refined fugar, pounded, and fifted through a hair fieve, fet your jelly on the fire, when it has juft boiled up fhake in the fugar, ftir it well, then fet it on the fire again, make it fealdingTHE experienced hot to melt the fugar, but do not let it boil, then pom- it on-clear cake glaffes or plates, when it is jellied, before it is candied, cut it in rounds or half rounds, this will not knot; and dry tnem the lame way as you did the apricot pafte. White currant clear cakes are made the lame xvay, but obferve, that as i'oon as the jelly is made you mull put the fugar to it, or it will change the colour. To make Violet Cakes. TAKE the fineft violets you can get, pick ofF the leaves, beat the violets fine in a mortar, with the juice of a lemon, beat and fift twice their weight of double-refined fugar, put your fugar and violets into a filver fauce-pan or tankard, let it over a flow fire, keep ftirring it gently till all your fugar is diffolved, if you let it boil it will diicolour your violets, drop them in China plates; when you take them off, put them in a box, with paper betwixt every layer. To dry Cherries. TAKE Morello cherries, ftone them, and to every pound of cherries put a pound and a quar- ter of fine fugar, beat and fift it over your cher- ries, let them hand all night, take them out of your fugar, and to every pound of fugar put two fpoonfuls of water,, boil and feum it well, then put in ypur cherries, let your fugar boil over them, the next morning ftrain them, and to every pound of the fyrup put half a pound more fugar, let it boil a little thicker, then put in yourENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 241 your cherries, and let them boil gently, the next day ftrain them, and dry them in a ftove, and turn them every day. A ft con d Way to dry Cherr i es. STONE a pound and a half of cherries, put them in a prelerving-pan, with a little water, when they are Raiding hot put them in a fieve, or on a cloth to dry, then put them in your pan again, beat and fift half a pound of double-refined fugar, ftrew it betwixt every layer of cherries, when it is melted let them on the fire, and make them Raiding hot, let them Hand till they are cold, do fo twice more, then drain them from the fy- rup, and lay them feparately to dry; dip them in cold water, and dry them with a cloth, fet them in the hot fun to dry as before, and keep them in a dry place till you want to ufe them. To dry Creen Gage Plums. MAKE a thin fyrup of half a pound of fingle- refined fugar, fldm it well, flit a pound of plums down the feam, and put them in the fyrup, keep them Raiding hot till they are tender, they muff be well covered with fyrup, or they will lofe their colour, let them ftand all night, then make a rich fyrup; to a pound of double-refined fu- gar put two fpoonfuls of water, fkim it well and boil it almoft to a candy, when it is cold drain your plums out of the firfh fyrup, and put them in the thick lprup, be fure to let the fyrup cover them, fet them on the fire to Raid till they look clear, then put them in a China bowl; when they have flood a week take them out, and lay I i them■M2 THE EXPERIENCED ( them on China difhes, dry them in a hove, and turn them once a-day till they are dry.—If you would have them green, fcald them with vine leaves, the fame way as the green gages are done. To make Apricot Cakes. TAKE a pound of nice ripe apricots, fcald them, and as foon as you find the Ikin will come off, peel them and take out the Hones, beat them in a marble mortar to a pulp, boil half a pound of double-refined fugar, with a fpoonful of wa- ter, fkim it exceeding well, then put in the pulp of your apricots, let them iimmer a quar- ter of an hour over a flow fire, ftir it foftly all % J the time, then pour it into fhallow fiat glaffes, turn them out upon glafs plates, put them in a ftove, and turn them once a-day till they are dry. To burn Almonds. TAKF two pounds of loaf fugar, two pounds of almonds, put them in a ftew-pan with a pint of water, let them over a clear coal fire, let them boil till you hear the almodns crack, take them off, and Ifir them about till they are quite dry, then put them in a wine fieve, and lift all the fugar from them, put the fugar into the pan again with a little water, give it a boil, put four fpoonfuls of fcraped cochineal to the fugar to colour it, put the almonds into the pan, keep ftirring them over the fire till they are quite dry, put them into a glals and they will keep twelve months* - j-4 To dry Damsons. •U] GET your damfons when they are full ripe, lpread them on a coarfe doth, fet them in a very coolENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 243 * cool oven, let them ftand a clay or two; if they are not as dry as a frefh prune, put them in an- other cool oven for a day or two longer, tiil they . are pretty dry, then put them out,,and lay tiiem in a dry place: they will eat like Ireih. plums in the winter. To candy Ginger. BEAT two pounds of line loaf fugar, put one pound in a toffing-pan, with as much water as will diftolve it, with one ounce of race ginger grated fine, ftir them well together over a very flow lire till the fugar begins to boil, then ftir in the other pound, and keep ftirring it till it grows thick, then take it off the fire, and drop it in cakes upon earthen clifties, fet them in a warm place to dry, and they will look white and be very hard and brittle. To make Grange Chips. TAKE the bcft Seville oranges, pare them afiant, a quarter of an inch broad, if you can keep the paring whole it looks much prettier, when you have pared them all, put them in fait and fpring water for a day or two, then boil them in a large quantity of fpring water till they * are tender, then drain them on a fieve, have ready a thin fprup, made of a quart of water and a pound ot fine fugar, boil them (a few at a time to keep them from breaking) tiil they look clear, then put them into a fyrup made of fine loaf fu- gar, with as much water as will difiolve it, and boil them to a candy height, when you take them up, lay them on fieves, and grate double-refined fu- gar all over them, and put them in a fto ve, or by the fire to dry, and keep them in a dry place for ufe. I i 2 To244 THE EXPERIENCED To dry Currants in Bunches. WHEN the currants are ftoned and tied up in bunches, to every pound of currants take a pound and a half of fugar, and to every pound of fugar put half a pint of water, boil the fyrup very well, lay your currants in it, fet them on the fire, and let them juft boil, take them off, cover it clofe with a paper, let them ftand till the next day, then make them Raiding hot, let them ftand for two or three days, with a paper clofe to them, then lay them on earthen plates, and lift them well over with fugar, put them in a ftove to dry, the next day lay them on fieves, but do not turn them till the upper-fide is dry, then turn them, and fift the other fide well with fugar; when they are quite dry, lay them be- twixt papers. To dry Apricots. TAKE a pound of apricots, pare and ftone them, put them in your tofting-pan, pound and lift half a pound of double-refined fugar, ftrew a little amongft them, and lay the reft over them; let them ftand twenty-four hours, turn them three or four times in the fyrup, then boil them pretty quick till they look clear, when they are cold take them out, and lay them on glades, put them into a ftove, and turn them every half hour, the next day every hour, and after as you fee occafion. To make Lemon Drops, DIP a lump of treble-refined loaf fugar in water, boil it ftiffifh, take it off, rub it with the back of a filver fpoon to the fide of your pan, then grate in fome lemon peel, boil it up, and dropENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 245 drop it on paper; if you want it red, put in a little cochineal. To make Lemon Drops another Way. TAKE half a pound ot pounded loaf fugar, fifted very fine, put it in a plate, and fqueeze three or four lemons over it; mix it well with a fpoon till it makes a thickilh pafte, then take half a Iheet of paper and cover it with drops the lize of a farthing, place it in the ftove with a flow fire till it is quite dry, and take it off from the paper; if you choole you may add fome of the fkin of the lemon rafped or grated. To make Peppermint Drops. TO one hundred drops of oil of peppermint add two pounds of treble-refined fugar, beat fine and fifted through a lawn fieve, with the whites of three eggs, and a fmall quantity ot orange-flower water, beat them well up together, and with a tea-fpoon drop it on fine kitchen pa- per to whatever lize you wilh to have them, put them on the hearth to dry, and the next day they will be fit for ufe. To make Raspberry or Currant Drops. TAKE half a pound of pounded loaf fugar on a plate, then a quantity of rafpberries, or currants, which you fqueeze through a fieve, when that is done add the juice to the fugar till it makes a pafte of a thickilh confiftency, drefs it on fine cap-paper and place it on the ftove till dry. • To246 THE EXPERIENCED To dry Peaches. PARE and ftone the larged Newington peaches, have ready a fauce-pan of boiling water, put in the peaches, let them boil till they are tendei, lay them on a ficve to drain, then weigh them, and put them in the pan they were boiled in, and cover them with their weight of fugar; let them lie two or three hours, then boil them till they are clear, and the fyrup pretty thick, let them Hand all night covered dole, fcald them very well, then take them off to cool, then fet them on again till the peaches are tho- roughly hot, do this for three days, lay them on piates to dry, and turn them every day. To candy Angelica. TAKE it when young, cut it in lengths, cover it clofe, and boil it till it is tender, peel it, and put it in again, let it fimmer and boil till it is green, then take it up, and dry it with a cloth; to every pound of ftalks put a pound of fugar; put your ftalks into an earthen pan, beat the fugar and drew over them, let it fhand two days, then boil it .till it is clear and green, put it in a cullendar to drain; beat a pound of fugar to a powder again, ftrew it on your angelica, lay it on plates to dry, and fet them in the oven after the pies are drawn.—Three pounds and a half of fugar is enough for four pounds of ftalks. To candy Lemon or Orange Peel. CUT your lemons or oranges long-ways, and take out all the pulp, and put the rinds into a prettyENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 247 pretty ftrong fait and hard water fix days, then boil them in a large quantity of fpring water till they are tender, then take them out and lay them on a hair lieve to drain, then make a thin fyrup of fine loaf fugar, a pound to a quart of water ; put in your peels and boil them half an hour, or till they look clear, have ready a thick fyrup made of fine loaf fugar, with as much water as will difiTolve it; put in your peels, and boil them over a flow fire, till you fee the fyrup candy about the pan and peels, then take them out, and grate fine fugar all over thqm, lay them on a hair fieve to drain, and fet them in a ftove, or before the fire, to dry, and keep them in a dry place for ufe.—Ar. B. Do not cover your fauce- pan when you boil either lemons or oranges. To boil Sugar candy height. PUT a pound of fugar into a clean toffing*- pan, with half a pint of water, fet it over a very clear flow fire, take off the fcum as it rifeS, boil it till it looks fine and clear, then take out a lit- tle with a filver l'poon ; when it is cold, if it will draw a thread from your fpoon it is boiled high enough for any kind of fweet-meat, then boil your fyrup, and when it begins to candy round the edge of your pan it is candy height. N. B. It is a great fault to put any kind of fweet-meats into too thick a fyrup, efpecially at the firfl, for it withers your fruit, and takes oft' both the beauty and flavour. CHAP.248 THE EXPERIENCED CHAP X. Obfcrvalions upon Creams, Custards, and Cheese-Cakes. WRIEN you make any kind of creams and cuftards, take great care your toffing-pan be well tinned, put a fpoonful of water in it, to prevent the cream from flicking to the bottom of your pan, then beat your yolks of eggs, and ftrain out the threads, and follow the directions of your receipt.—As to cheefe-cakes they fhould not be made long before you bake them, parti- cularly almond or lemon cheefe-cakes, for Hand- ing makes them oil and look fad, a moderate oven bakes them beft, if it is too hot it burns them and takes off the beauty, and a very flow oven makes them fad and look black; make your cheefe-cakes up juft when the oven is of a pro- per heat, and they will rife well and be of a proper colour. To make Pistaciio Cream. TAKE half a pound of piftacho nuts, take out the kernels, beat them in a mortar with a fpoonful of brandy, put them into a tofling-pan, with a pint of good cream and the yolks of two eggs beat fine, ftir it gently over a very flow fire till it grows thick, then put it into a China foup- plate, when it grows cold ftick it all over with fmall pieces and ferve it up. To make Chocolate Cream. SCRAPE fine a quarter of a pound of the beft chocolate, put to it as much water as will dif- folveENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER, 249 folve it, put it in a marble mortar, beat it half an hour, put in as much fine fugar as will fweeten it, and a pint and a half of cream, mill it, and as the froth riles lay it on a fieve, put the re- maining part of your cream in pofiet-glafles, and lay the frothed cream upon them. It makes a pretty mixture upon a fet of falvers. To make Spanish Cream. DISSOLVE in a quarter of a pint of rofe water three quarters of an ounce of ifinglafs cut fmall, run it through a hair fieve, add to it the yolks of three eggs, beat and mixed with half a pint of cream, two forrel leaves, and fugar to your tafte, dip the dilh in cold water before you put in the cream, then cut it out with ajigging- iron, and lay it in rings round different-coloured fweet-meats. To make Ice Cream. PARE, Hone, and fcald twelve ripe apricots, beat them fine in a marble mortar, put to them fix ounces of double-refined fugar, a pint of fcalding cream, work it through a hair fieve, put it into a tin that has a clofe cover, fet it in a tub of ice broken fmall, and a large quantity of fait put among!! it, when you fee your cream grow thick round the edges of your tin, ftir it, and let it in again till it grows quite thick; when your cream is all frozen up take it out of your tin, and put it into the mould you intend it to be turned out of, then put on the lid, and have ready another tub with ice and fait in as before, put your mould in the middle, and lay your ice K k under^5° THE EXPERIENCED’ under and over it, let it ftand four or five hours, dip your tin in warm water when you turn it out; if it be fummer, you muff not turn it out till the moment you want it: you may ufe any fort of fruit if you have not apricots, only ob- ferve to work it fine. 'll To make Clotted Cream. PUT one tea-fpoon of earning into a quart of good cream; when it comes to a curd, break it very carefully with a filver fpoon, lay it upon > a fieve to drain a little, put it into a China foup- it plate, pour over it fome good cream, with the juice of rafpberries, damfons, or any kind of fruit, to make it a fine pink colour, fweeten it lit to your tafte, and lay round it a few ftrawberry leaves.—It is proper for a middle at fupper, or a corner at dinner. To make Hartshorn Cream. TAKE four ounces of hartfhorn fhavings, boil them in three pints of water till it is reduced to half a pint, run it through a jelly-bag, put to it a pint of cream, let it juft boil up, then put it into jelly-glafles, let it ftand till it is cold, by dipping your glafles into fcalding water it will flip out whole, then flick them all over with flices of almonds cut lengthways : it eats well with white wine and fugar, like flummery. To make Ribband Cream. TAKE eight quarts of new milk, fet it on the fire, when it is ready to boil put in a quart of good cream, earn it, and pour it into a large bowl, let it ftand all night, then take off the cream,ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 251 cream, and lay it on a fieve to diain, cut it to the lize of your glalTes, and lay red, green, or co- loured Tweet-meats between every layer of cream. To malic Lemon Cream. TAKE a pint of fpring water, the rinds of two lemons pared very thin, and the juice oi three, beat the whites of fix eggs very well, mix the whites with the water and lemon, put fugar to your tafte, then fet it over the fire, and keep ftirring it till it thickens, but do not let it boil, ifrain it through a cloth, beat the yolks of fix eggs, put it over the fire till it be quite thick, then put it into a bowl to cool, and put it in your glaffes. “Tomake Steeple Cream with Wine Sours. TAKE one pint of ftrong clear calf’s-foot jelly, the yolks of four hard eggs, pounded in a mortar exceeding fine, with the juice of a Seville orange, and as much double-refined fugar as will make it iweet, when your jelly is warm put it in, and keep ftirring it till it is cold and grows as thick as cream, then put it into jelly— glaftes, the next day turn it out into a difti with preferved wine fours, ftick a lprig of myrtle in the top of every cream, and ferve it up with flowers round it. To make Raspberry Cream. TAKE a quart of rafpberries, or rafpberry jam, rub it through a hair fieve to take out the feeds, mix it well with your cream, put in as K k 2 much*52 the experienced much loaf fugar as will make it pleafant, then put it into a milk-pot to raife a froth with a cho- colate-mill; as your froth rifes take it off with a fpoon, lay it upon a hair fieve, when you have got what iroth you have occafion for, put the remainder of your cream in a deep China difh or punch-bowl, put your frothed cream upon it as high as it will lie on, then hick a light flower in an<^ ^en<^ ^ UP'—^ *s ProPer for a middle at fupper, or a corner at dinner. Lemon Cream ivith Peel. BOIL a pint of cream, when it is half cold put in the yolks of four eggs, ftir it till it is C<r i ? *et lt 0Ver t^le ^re’ P°ur ounces of loaf fugar, a tea-fpoonful of grated lemon peel, ftir it till it is pretty hot, take it off the fire and put it in a bafon to cool, when it is cold put it into fweetmeat-glaffes, lay pafte knots, or lemon peel cut like long ftraws, over the tops of your glafles. —It is proper to be put upon a bottom lalver amongft jellies and whips. Orange Cream. TAKE the juice of four Seville oranges, and the out-rind of one pared exceeding fine, put them into a tofling-pan, with one pint of water, and eight ounces of fugar, beat the whites of five eggs, fet it over the fire, ftir it one way till it glows thick and white, ftram it through a gauze fieve, ftir it till it is cold, then beat the yolks of five eggs exceeding well, put it in your tofling- panENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 253 pan with the cream, ftir it over a very ilow fire till it is ready to boil, put it into a bafon to cool, and ftir it till it is quite cold, then put it into jelly-glafles: fend it in upon a falver, with whips and jellies. To make Burnt Cream. BOIL a pint of cream with fugar and a lit- tle lemon peel Hired fine, then beat the yolks of fix and the whites of four eggs feparately, when your cream is cooled, put in your eggs, with a fpoonful of orange-flour water, and one of fine flour; fet it over the fire, keep ftirring it till it is thick, put it into a difh; when it is cold fift a quarter of a pound of fugar all over, hold a hot falamander over it till it is very brown, and looks like a glafs plate put over your cream. • ’ 1' To make La Pompadour Cream. BEAT the whites of five eggs to a ftrong froth, put them into a tofling-pan, with two fpoonfuls of orange-flour water, two ounces of « fugar, ftir it gently for three or four minutes, then pour it into your difh, and pour good melted butter over it, and fend it in hot. It is a pretty corner-difh for a fecond courfe at • dinner. To make Tea Cream. TO half a pint of milk put a quarter of an ounce of fine hyfon tea, boil them together, ftrain the leaves out, and put to the milk half a pint2f4 THE EXPERIENCED pint of cream, and two tea-fpoonfuls of rennet* iet it over fome hot embers in the difh you fend it to table in, and cover it with a tin plate ; when it is thick it is enough. Garnifh with fweet-meats, and fend it up. To.make King William’s Cream. LEAT the whites of three eggs very well, then fqueeze out the juice of two large or three fmall lemons; take two ounces more than the weight of the juice of double-refined fugar, and mix it together with two or three drops of orange-flour water, and five or fix fpoonfuls of fair fpring water; when all the fugar is melted, put the whites of the eggs into the pan and the ■ juice, fet it over a flow fire, and keep ftir- ring it till you find it thicken, and ftrain it through a coarfe cloth quick into the difh. Snow and Cream, a pretty Supper Di/Jj. MAKE a rich boiled cuftard, and put it in the bottom of your China or glafs difh, then take the whites of eight eggs beat wdth rofe water and a fpoonful of treble-refined fugar, till it is a ftrong froth; put fome milk and water into a broad ftew-pan, and when it boils take the froth off the eggs, and lay it on the milk and water, and let it boil once up; take it off carefully, and lay it on your cuftard.ENGLISH 1-IOUSE-KEEPER. To make Cream Cheese. PUT one large fpoonful of deep to five quarts of afterings, break it down light, put it upon a cloth on a fieve bottom, and let it run till dry, break it, cut and turn it in a clean cloth, then put it into the fieve again, and put on it a two-pound weight, fprinkle a little fait on it and let it hand all night, then lay it on a board to dry, when dry lay a few ftrawberry leaves on it, and ripen it between two pewter difhes in a warm place, turn it, and put on frefh leaves every day. To make a Trifle. PUT three large maccaroons in the middle of your difh, pour as much white wine over them as they will drink, then take a quart of cream, ■put in as much lugar as will make it fweet, rub'' your fugar upon the rind of a lemon, to fetch out the eflence, put your cream into a pot, mill it to a ftrong froth, lay as much froth upon a fieve as will fill the difh you intend to put your trifle in, put the remainder of your cream into a tofling-pan, with a flick of cinnamon, the yolks of four eggs well beat, and fugar to your tafte, fet them over a gentle fire, ftir it one way till it is thick, then take it off the fire, pour it upon your maccaroons ; when it is cold, put on your frothed cream, lay round it different-coloured fweet-meats, and fmall fhot comfits, and figures or flowers. Almond256 THE EXPERIENCED Almond Custards. a Cluart crcam into a tofling-pan, a itick of cinnamon, a blade or two of mace, boil it and let it to cool, blanch two ounces of al- monds, beat them fine in a marble mortar with rofe water, if you like a ratafia tafte, put in a ew apiicot kernels or bitter almonds, mix them with your cream, fweeten it to your tafte, fet it on a flow fire, keep ftirring it till it is pretty thick, if you let it boil it will curdle, pour it into cups, &c. To make Lemon Custards* # TAKE a pint of white wine, have a pound of double-refined lugar, the juice of two lemons, the out-rind of one pared very thin, the inner- rind of one boiled tender and rubbed through a fieve, let them boil a good while, then take out the peel and a little of the liquor, fet it to cool, pour the reft into the difh you intend for it; beat four yolks and two whites of eggs, mix them with your cool liquor, ftrain them' into your difh, ftir them well up together, fet them on a flow fire, or boiling water, to bake as a cuftard; when it is enough, grate the rind of a lemon all over the top; you may brown it over with a hot falamander. It may be eat either hot or cold. To make Orange Custards. BOIL the rind of half a Seville orange very .tender, beat it in a marble mortar till it is very fine, 1ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 257 fine, put it to one fpoonful of the beft brandy, the juice of a Seville orange, four ounces ot loaf fugar, and the yolks of four eggs, beat them all together ten minutes, then pour in by degrees a pint of boiling cream, keep beating them till they are cold, put them into cuftard-cups, and fet them in an earthen difh of hot water, let them ftand till they are fet, then take them out, and hick preferred orange on the top, and ferve them up either hot or cold.—It is a pretty cor- ller-difh for dinner, or a lide-difh tor fupper. To make a common Custard* . TAKE a quart of good cream, fet it over a flow fire, with a little cinnamon, and four ounces of fugar; when, it has boiled take it ofF the fire; beat the yolks of eight eggs, put to’them a fpoonful of orange-flour water to prevent the cream from cracking, ftir them in by degrees as your cream cools, put the pan over a very flow fire, ftir them carefully one way till it is al- moft boiling, then put it into cups, and ferve them up. To make a Beest Custard* TAKE a pint of beeft, fet it over the fire, with a little cinnamon, or three bay leaves, let it be boiling hot, then take it off, and have ready mixed one fpoonful of flour, and a fpoonful of thick cream, pour your hot beeft upon it by degrees, mix it exceeding well together, and lweeten it to your tafte; you may either put it in crufts or cups, or bake it, LI ‘ Tothe experienced CT3 To make an Apple Floating Island. BAKE fix or eight very large apples, when they aie cold peel and core them, rub the pulp through a fieve with the back of a wooden Ipoon, then beat it up light with fine fugar, wrell lifted, to your tafte ; beat the whites ol four eSgs with orange-flour water in another bowl tul it is a light froth, then mix it with your apples a little at a time till all is beat together, and exceeding light; make a rich boiled cuf- tard, and put it in a China or glafs difh, and lay the apples all over it. Garnifh with currant- j-elly, or what you pleafe.-. To make Fairy Butter. TAKE the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, a quarter of a pound of butter, beat two ounces of fugar Jn a large fpoonful of orange-flour water, beat them all together to a fine pafte, let it Hand two or three hours, then rub it through a cullendar upon a plate ^ it looks very pretty. To make Almond Cheese-Cakes:' TAKE four ounces of Jordan almonds, blanch them, and put them into cold water, beat them with role water m a marble mortar, or wooden bowl, with a wooden pefile, put to it four ounces of fugar, and the yolks of four eggs beat fine, work it in a mortar or bowl till it becomes white and frothy, then make a rich puff pafte, which muft be made thus: Take half a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, rub lENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 259 rub a little of the butter into the flour, mix it IlifF with a little cold water, then roll your pafte ftraight out, ftrew over'a little flour, and lay over it in thin bits one third of your butter, throw a little more flour over the butter, do io for three times, then put your pafle in your tins, fill them, and grate fugar over them, and bake them in a gentle oven. To make Bread Cheese-Cakes. SLICE a penny loaf as thin as polfible, pour on it a pint of boiling cream, let it (land two hours, then take eight eggs, half a pound of butter, and a nutmeg grated, beat them well together, put in half a pound of currants well walked, and dried before the fire, and a lpoon- ful of brandy, or white wine, and bake them in raifed crufts, or petty-pans. To make Citron Cheese-Cakes. BOIL a quart of cream, beat the-yolks of four eggs, mix them with your cream when it is cold, then fet it on the fire, let it boil till it curds, blanch fome almonds, beat them with orange-flour water, put them into the cream, with a few Naples bifeuits, and green citron Aired fine, fweeten it to your tafte, and bake them in tea-cups. To make Rice Cheese-Cakes. BOIL four ounces of rice till tender, put it Upon a fieve to drain, put in four eggs well beat- en, half a pound of butter, half a pint of cream, L 1 2 fix26° the experienced fix ounces of fugar, a nutmeg grated, and a glafs ot ratafia water or brandy : beat them all to- getiiei, and oaxe them in raifed crufts. "To make Curd Cheese-Cakes. • a Pint °** g°oci curds, beat them with four eggs, three fpoonfuls of rich cream, halt a nutmeg grated, on.e fpoonful of ratafia, 10 e, 01 orange-water, put to them a quarter of a pound of fugar, half a pound of currants well warned and dried before the fire, mix them all we together, and bake it ill petty-pans, with a good cruft under them. *20 make Orange Crumpets. TAKE a ping of cream, and a pint of new milx, warm it, and put in it a little r.unnet, when it is broke ftir it gently, lay it on a cloth to drain all night, and then take the rinds of three oranges, boiled as for preferving in three different waters, pound them very fine, and mix them with the curd, and eight eggs, in a mortar, a little nut- meS’ juice of a lemon, or orange, and fugar to } oiu tafte, bake them in tin pans rubbed with butter, when they are baked turn them out, and put fack and fugar over them.—Some put dices of prefled oranges among them. - ' ^ , To rnake Cheese-Cakes. oET a quart of new milk near the fire, with a fpoonful of runnet, let the milk be blood warm, when it is broke, drain tire curd through a coarfe Cxotij, now and then break the curd gently with yourENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 261 To your fingers, rub into the curd a quarter of a "pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of fugar, a nutmeg, and two Naples bifcuits grated, the yolks of four eggs, and the whites of one egg, one ounce of almonds well beat, with two fpoonfuls of role water, and two of lack, clean fix ounces of currants very well, put them into your curd, and mix them all well together. To made Curd Puffs. TAKE two quarts of milk, put a little run- pet in it, when it is broke put it in a coarfe cloth to drain, then rub the curd through a hair fieve, with four ounces of butter beat, ten ounces of bread, half a nutmeg, and a lemon peel grated ; a fpoonful of wine, and fugar to your tafte, rub your cups with butter, and bake them a little more than half an hour. To make Egg Cheese, * i BEAT fix eggs well, put them into three gills of new milk, fugar, cinnamon, and lemon peel, to your tafte, fet it over the fire, keep ftirring it, and fqueeze a quarter of a lemon in it, to turn it to cheefe, let it run into what Chape you would have it, when it is cold turn it out, pour over it a little almond cream, made of fweet almonds beat fine with a little cream, then put them into a pint of cream, let it boil and (train it, put to it the yolks of three eggs well beat, fet it over the fire, and make it like a cuftard.*62 THE EXPERIENCED To make a Loaf Royal. TAKE a French roll, rafp it, cut off the bot- tom cruft, lay it in a pan, with the bottom upwards, boil a pint of cream, put to it the yolks of two eggs, a little cinnamon, orange- flower watei, and iugar to your tafte, when it is cold pour it upon the roll, let it ftand in all night to fteep, then make a very good cuftard of cream, a little fack, orange-flower water, and fugar, put the roll into a difh, with fome good pafte round the edge, and pour your cuftard upon it; you may lay lumps of marrow in the cuftard, and ftick long flips of citron and orange peel in the loaf, then fend it to the oven; a little time will bake it. To make a Prince Loaf. TAKE final 1 French rolls, about the fize of an egg, cut a lmall round hole in the top, take out all the crumb, fill them with almond cuf- tard, lay over it currant-jelly, in thin flices, beat the white of an egg, and double-refined fugar to a froth, and ice them all over with it; five is a pretty difh. To make a Drunken Loaf, TAKE a French roll hot out of the oven, rafp it, and pour a pint of red wine upon it, and cover it clofe up for half an hour, boil one ounce of maccaroni in water till it is foft, and lay it upon a fieve to drain, then put the fize of a wal- nutENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. sfij nut of butter into it, and as much thick cream as it will take, then fcrape in fix ounces of Par-' me fail. clieefe, ihake it about in your tofiing- pan, with the maccaroni, till it be like a fine cuftard, then pour it hot upon your loaf; brown it with a falamander, and ferve it up.—It is a pretty difh for lupper. To make Snow-Balls. PARE five large baking-apples, take out the cores with a fcoop, fill the holes with orange or quince marmalade, then make a little good hot pafte, and roll your apples in it, and make your cruft of an equal thicknefs, and put them in a. tin dripping-pan, bake them in a moderate oven, when you take them out, make icing for them the fame way as for the plumb-cake, and ice them all over with it, about a quarter of an inch thick, fet them a good diftance from the fire till they are hardened, but take care you do not let them brown, put one in the middle of a China dilh, and thfe other five round it; garnifh them with green fprigs and fmall flowers.—They are pro- per for a corner either for dinner or flipper. To make Fried Toast. CUT a flice of bread about half an inch thick, fteep it in rich cream, with fugar and nutmeg to your tafte, when it is quite loft put a good lump of butter into a tolling-pan, fry it a fine brown, lay it on a difh, pour wine fauce over it, and ferve it up. CHAP.264 THE EXPERIENCED CHAP. XI. Qbfcrvations upon Cakes. WHEN you make any kind of cakes, be line tnat you get the things ready be- fore you begin, then beat your eggs well, and do not leave them till you have finilhed the cakes, or elfe they will go back again, and your cakes' will not be light; if your cakes are to have but- ter in, take care you beat it to a fine cream be- fore you put in your fugar, for if you beat it twice the time it will not anfwer fo well: as to plumb-cake, feed-cake, or rice-cake, it is beft to bake them in wooden garths, for if you bake them in either pot or tin they' burn 'the outfide of die cakes, and confine them fo that the heat cannot penetrate into the middle of your cake, and prevents it from riling; bake all kinds of cakes in a good oven, according to the fize of your cake, and follow the directions of your receipt, for though care hath been taken to weigh and meafure every article belonging to every kind of cake, yet the management and the oven mull be left to the maker’s care. To make a Bride Cake. TAKE four pounds of fine flour well dried, four pounds of frefli butter, two pounds of loaf fugar, pound and fift fine a quarter of an ounce of mace, the fame of nutmegs; to every pound of flour put eight eggs, wafh four pounds of currants, pick them well, and dry them before the . t!i cu 'tii of f be id ill Pl ali to1 m cai cal loi Ho 1 fro Wli Li tea ist Hie r; flit fanENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 265 the fire, blanch a pound of fweet almonds, and cut them length-ways very thin, a pound of citron, one pound of candied orange, the fame of candied lemon, half a pint of brandy; firft work the butter with your hand to a cream, then beat in your lugar a quarter of an hour, beat the whites of your eggs to a very ftrong froth, mix them with your lugar and butter, beat your yolks half an hour at leaft, and mix them with your cake, then put in your flour, mace, and nut- meg, keep beating it well till your oven is ready, put in your brandy, and beat your currants and almonds lightly in, tie three fheets of paper found the bottom of your hoop to keep it from running out, rub it well with butter, put in your cake, and lay your fweet-meats in three layers with, cake betwixt every layer, after it is rifen and co- loured, cover it with paper before your oven is flopped up; it will take three hours baking. To make Almond-Icing for the Bride Cake* BEAT the whites of three eggs to a ftrong froth, beat a pound of Jordan almonds very fine with role-water, mix your almonds with the eggs lightly together, a pound of common loaf fugar beat fine, and put in by degrees; when your cake is enough, take it out, and lay your icing on, then put it in to brown. To make Sugar-Icing for the Bride Cake. BEAT two pounds of double-refined fugar, with two ounces of fine ftarch, fift it through a gauze fieve, then beat the whites of five eggs M m with266 THE EXPERIENCED with a knife upon a pewter difti half an hour * beat in your fugar a little at a time, or it will make tne eggs fall, and will not be fo good a colour, when you have put in all your fugar, beat, it half an hour logger, then lay it on your aimond-ieing, and fpread'it even with a knife; if it be put on as loon as the cake comes out of the oven it will be hard by the time the cake is cold. To make a good Plum Cake, TAKE a pound and a half of fine flour well dried, a pound and a half of butter, three quar- ters of a pound of currants wafhed and well picked, ftone half a pound of raifins, and flice them, eighteen ounces of fugar beat and fifted, fourteen eggs, leave ,out the whites of half of them, Aired the peel of a large lemon exceed- ing fine, three ounces of candied orange, the fame of lemon, a tea-fpoonful of beaten mace, half a nutmeg grated, a tea-cupful of brandy, or white wine, four fpoonfuls of orange-flour water; firfi work the butter with your hand to a cream, then beat your fugar well in, whilk your eggs for half an hour, then mix them with your fugar and butter, and put in your flour and lpices; when -your oven is ready, mix your brandy, fruit,’ and fweet-meats lightly in, then put it in your hoop, and fend it to the oven ; it will require two hours and a half baking.- will take an hour and a half beating. \ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 267 To M m 2 To make a rich Seed Cake. TAKE a pound of flour well dried, a pound of butter, a pound of loaf fugar beat and lifted, eight eggs, two ounces .of carraway feeds, one nutmeg grated, and its weight of cinnamon; firft beat your butter to a cream, then put in your iugar, beat the whites of your eggs half an hour, mix them with your fugar and butter, then beat the yolks half an hour, put to it the whites, beat in your flour, fpices, and feeds, a little before it goes to the oven; put it in the hoop and bake it two hours in a quick oven, and let it hand two hours. It will take two hours beating. To make a White Plum Cake. TO two pounds of flour well dried take a pound of fugar beat and fifted, one pound of butter, a quarter of an ounce of mace, the fame of nutmeg, fixteen eggs, two pounds and a half of currants, picked and walked, half a pound of candied lemon, the fame of lweet-al- monds, half a pint of fack, or brandy, three fpoonfuls of orange-flower water, beat your but- ter to a cream, put in your fugar, beat the whites of 3pur eggs hall an hour, mix them with your fugar and butter, then beat your yolks half an hour, mix them with your whites, it will take two hours beating, put in your flour a little be- fore your oven is ready, mix your currants and all your other ingredients lightly in, juft when you put it in your hoop.—Two hours will bake it.?68 THE EXPERIENCED To mqke little Plum Cakes. TAKE a pound of flour, rub into it half a, pound of butter, the fame of fugar, a little beat- en mace, beat four eggs very well (leave out half the whites) with three fpoonfuls of yeft, put to it a quarter ot a pound of warm cream, ftrain them into your flour, and make it up light, fet it before the fire to rife; juft before you fend it to the oven put in three quarters of a pound of currants. • To make Orange Cakes. TAKE Seville oranges that have very good rinds, quarter them, and boil them in two or three waters until they are tender, and the bit— ternefs is gone off, fcum them, then lay them on a clean napkin to dry, take all the feeds and fkins out of the pulp with a knife, fhred the peels fine, put them to the pulp, weigh them, and put rather-more than their weight of fine fugar into a toffmg-pan, with juft as much water as will difiolve it, boil it till it becomes a per- fect lugar, then by degrees put in your orange peels and pulp, ftir them well before you fet them on the fire, boil it very gently till it looks clear and thick, then put it into flat-bottomed glaffes, fet them in a ftove, and keep a conftant moderate heat to them, when they are candied on the top turn them out upon glafles. N. B.—You may make lemon cakes the fame way,ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 2O9 I! To make Lemon Cakes a fecond Way. BEAT the whites of ten eggs with a whifk for an hour, with three fpoonfuls of rofe or orange-flower water, then put in one pound of loaf fugar beat and flfted, with the yellow rind of a lemon grated into it; when it is well mixed put in the juice of half a lemon and the yolks of ten eggs beat fmooth, and juft before you put it into the oven ftir in three quarters of a pound of flour; butter your pan, and one hour will bake it in a moderate oven. * m I To make Rice Cake, ti TAKE fifteen eggs, leave out one half of the whites, beat them exceeding well near an hour with a whifk, then beat the yolks half an hour, put to your yolks ten ounces of loaf fugar fifted fine, beat it well in, then put in half a pound of rice flour, a little orange-water or brandy, the rinds of two lemons grated, then put in your whites, beat them all well together for a quarter of an hour, then put them in a hoop, and fet them in a quick oven for half an hour. 1 To make Ratafia Cakes. TAKE half a pound of fweet almonds, the fame quantity of bitter, blanch and beat them fine in orange, rofe, or clear water, to keep them from oiling, pound and lift a pound of fine fugar, mix it with your almonds, have ready yery well beat the whites of four eggs, mix them /270 THE EXPERIENCED them lightly with the almonds and fugar, put it m a preferving-pan, and fet it over a moderate hre, keep ftirrmg it quick one way until it is pretty hot; when it is a little cool, roll it in fmall rolls, and cut it in thin cakes, dip your hands in flour and lhake them on it, give them each a light tap with your finger, put them on fugar-papers, and lift a little fine fugar over them jifltas you are putting them into a flow oven. To make Ratafia Cakes rzfecond Way. TAKE one pound and a half of fweet al- monds, and half a pound of bitter almonds, beat them as fine as poflible with the whites of two eggs, then beat the whites of five eggs to a ftrong froth, fhake in lightly two pounds and g halt of fine loaf fugar, beat and fifted very fine, drop them in little drops the fize of a nutme^ on cap-paper, and bake them in a flack oven. ^ To make Shrewsbury Cakes. TAKE half a pound of butter, beat it to a cream, then put in half a pound of flour, one egg, fix ounces of loaf fugar beat and fifted, half an ofince of carraway feeds mixed into a pafte, roil them thin, and cut them round with a fmall glafs, 01 little tins, prick them and lay them on fheets of tin, and bake them in a flow oven. To make Shrewsbury Cakes a fecond Way. TO a pound of butter beat and fift a pound of double-refined fugar, a little mace, and four eggs>ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 271 eggs, beat them all together with your hand till it is very light, and looks curdling, then {hake in a pound and a half of fine flour, roll it thin, and cut it into little cakes with a tin, and bake them. To make Bath Cakes. t RUB half a pound of butter into a pound of flour, and one fpoonful of good barm, warm fome cream, and make it into a light pafte, fet it to the fire to rife, when you make them up take four ounces of carraway comfits, work part of them in, and ftrew the reft on the top, make them into a round cake, the fize of a French roll, bake them on fheet tins, and fend them in hot for breakfaft. To make Queen Cakes. TAKE a pound of loaf fugar, beat and fift it, a pound of flour well dried, a pound of butter, eight eggs, half a pound of currants wafbed and picked, grate a nutmeg, the fame quantity of mace and cinnamon, work your butter to a cream, then put in your fugar, beat the whites of your eggs near half an hour, mix them with your fugar and butter, then beat your yolks near half an hour, and put them to your butter; beat them exceeding well together, then put in your flour, fpices, and the currants, when it is ready for the oven bake them in tins, and duft a little fugar over them. To 1the experienced l • To make a common Seed Cake , , r . ‘ ounce or carrawav S,hrT ready a,pint of milk> with • i TAKE two pounds of flour, rub it into half a pound of powdered fugar, one ounce of carrawav To make Cream Cakes; tBEAT the whites of nine errs to ; mne eggs to a ftiff froth, then ftir it gently with a fpoon, for fear the troth fhould fall, and grate the rinds of two emons, to every white of an egg fhake in iortly a fpoonful of double-refined fugar fifted fine, Jay a wet fheet of paper on a tin, and drop the rroth in little lumps on it with a fpoon a fmall diftance from each other, and fift a good quantity of fugar over them, fet them in an oven after brown bread, make the oven clofe up, and the froth will rife, when they are juft coloured’ they are baked enough, take them out and put two bottoms together, and lay them on a fieve, then fet them in a cool oven to dry.—You may lay rafpberry jam, or lay other forts of fweet- meats, betwixt them, before you clofe the bot- toms together to dry. To make little Currant Cakes. TAKE one pound and a half of fine flour, dry it well before the fire, a pound of butter, halfENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 273 half a pound of fine loaf fugar well beat and lifted, four yolks of eggs, four fpoonfuls of rofe water, four fpoonfuls of fack, a little mace, and one nutmeg grated; beat the eggs very well, and put . them to the rofe water and fack, then put to it the fugar and "butter; work them all together, firew in the currants and the flour, being both made warm together before.—This . quantity will make fix or eight cakes ; bake them pretty crifp, and a fine brown* To make Prussian Cakes* TAKE a pound of fugar beat and fifted, half a pound of Hour dried, and feven eggs, beat the yolks and whites feparate, the juice of one lemon, the peel of two grated very fine, half a pound of almonds beat fine with rofe water; as loon as the whites are beat to a froth, put in all the things except the flour, and beat them to- gether for half an hour; juft before you let it in the oven fhake in the flour.—N. B. The whites and yolks muft be beat feparate, or it will be quite heavy. To make a Cake without Butter* BEAT eight eggs half an hour, have ready pounded and fifted a pound of loaf fugar, fhake it in, and beat it half an hour more ; put to it a quarter of a pound of fweet almonds beat fine, with orange-flower water, grate the rind of a lemon into the almonds, and fquezee in the juice of the lemon, mix them all together, and keep N n beating2/4 -THE experienced To beating them till the oven is ready, and juft be- fore you let it in put to it three quarters of a pound of (warm dry line flour; rub your hoop with butter :• an hour and a half will bake it. To make Barbadoes- Jumballs. BEAT very light the yolks of four eggs and the whites of eight with a fpoonful of rofe water, and duft in a pound of treble-refined fugar, then put in three quarters of a pound of the heft fine flour, ftir it lightly in, greafe your tin fheets, and drop them in the ftiape of a mac- caroon, and bake them nicely. To make Chacknells. TO a pound of flour put a pound of butter, fix eggs (leaving out three whites) to three quar- ters of a pound of fugar powder, a glafs of wa- ter, a little, lemon peel chopped very fine, dried orange-flowers ; work it.well together; then cut it into pieces of what bignefs you pleafe to bake, and glaze them with fugar. To make Light Wigs. TO three quarters of a pound of fine flour put half a pint of milk made warm, mix in it two or three fpoonfuls of light barm, cover it up, fet it half an hour by the fire to rife, work in the pafte four ounces of fugar, and four ounces of butter, make it into wigs with as little flour as poflible, and a few feeds; fet them in a quick oven to bake.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 275 To make Maccaroons. TO one pound of blanched and beaten fweet almpnds put one pound of fugar and a little role water to keep them from boiling, then beat the whites of feven eggs to a froth, put them in and beat them well together, drop them on wa- fer-paper, grate fugar over them, and bake them. To make Spanish Biscuits. BEAT the yolks of eight eggs near half an hour, then beat in eight fpoonfuls of fugar, beat the whites to a ftrong froth, then beat them very well with your yolks and fugar near half an hour, put in four fpoonfuls of flour, and a little lemon cut exceeding fine, and bake them on papers. To make Sponge Biscuits. BEAT the yolks of twelve eggs half an hour, put in a pound and a half of fugar beat and lift- ed, whifk it well till you fee it rife in bub- bles, beat the whites to a ftrong froth, whifk them well with your fugar and yolks, beat in fourteen ounces of Hour, with the rinds of two lemons grated, bake them in tin moulds but- tered, or coffins; they require an hot oven, the mouth mull not be flopped; when you put them into the oven duft them with fugar; they will take half an hour baking.*7* THE EXPERIENCED To To make Lemon Biscuits. BEAT very well the yolks of ten eggs, and the whites of five, with four fpoonfuls of oranue- fiower water, till they froth up, then put in a pound of loaf fugar lifted, beat it one way for half an hour or more, put in half a pound of flour, with the rafpings of two lemons, and the pulp of a fmall one, butter your tin, and bake it in a quick oven, but do not hop up the mouth at firft for fear it fhouid fcorch, duff it with fugar before you put it into the oven; it is foon baked. To make Drop Biscuits. BEAT the yolks of ten eggs, and the whites of fix, with one fpoonful of rofe water, half an hour, then put in ten. ounces of loaf fugar beat and lifted, whilk them well for half an hour, / then add one ounce of carraway feeds crufhed a little, and fix ounces of fine flour, whifk in your flour gently, drop them on wafer-papers, and bake them in a moderate oven. To make common Biscuits BEAT eight eggs half an hour, put in a pound of fugar beat and fifted, with the rind of a lemon grated, whifk it an hour till it looks light, then put in a pound of flour, with a lit- tle rofe water, and bake them in tins, or on papers with fugar over them.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 277 To To make Wafers. TAKE two fpoonfuls of cream, two of fugar, the fame of flour, and one fpoonful of orange-flower water, beat them well together for half an hour, then make your wafer-tongs hot, and pour a little of your batter in to cover your irons, bake them on a ftove fire, as they are baked roll them round a flick like a fpig- got, as foon as they are cold they will be very crifp; they are proper for tea, or to put upon a falver to eat with jellies. To make Lemon Puff's. BEAT a pound of double-refined fugar, fift it through a fine fieve, put it in a bowl with the juice of two lemons; beat them well together, then beat the white of an egg to a very high froth, put it in your bowl, beat it half an hour; then put in three eggs, with two rinds of lemons grated, mix it well up, duff your papers with fugar, drop on the puffs in fmall drops, and bake them in a moderate oven. 1 „ To make Chocolate Puffs. BEAT and lift half a pound of double-refined fugar, fcrape it into one ounce of chocolate very fine, mix them together, beat the white of an egg to a very high froth, then ftrew in your fugar and chocolate; keep beating it till it is as fliff as pafle, fugar your papers, and drop them on about the fize of a fixpence, and bake them in a very flow oven, ••i.7s the experienced To make Almond Puffs. BLANCH two ounces of fweet almonds, beat them line with orange-flower water, beat the whites of three eggs to a very high froth, then ftrew in a little lifted fugar, mix your al- monds with your fugar and eggs, then add more fugar, till it is as ftiff as a pafte, lay it in cakes, and bake it on paper in a cool oven. To make Pikelets. TAKE three pounds of flour, make a hole in the middle with your hand, then mix two fpoonfuls of barm, with as much milk and a little fait as will make it into a light pafte, pour your milk and barm into the middle of your flour, and ftir a little of your flour into it, then let it ftand all night, and the next morning work all the flour into the barm, and beat it well for a quarter of an hour, then let it ftand an hour; after that, take it out with a large lpoon, and lay it on a board well dufted with flour, and dredge flour over them; pat it with your hand, and bake them upon your bake- ftone. To make French Bread. TAKE a quarter of a peck of flour, one ounce of butter melted in milk and water, mix two or three fpoonfuls of barm with it, ftrain ft through a fieve, beat the white of an egg, putENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 279 put it in your water, with a little fait, work it up to a light pafte, put it into a bowl, then pull it into pieces, let it Hand all night, then work it well up again, cover it, and lay it on a dreiler for half an hour, then work all the pieces fepa- rate and make them into rolls, and fet them in the oven. To moke White Bread. TO a gallon of the beft dour put 'fix ounces of butter, half a pint of good yeft, a little fait, break two eggs into a bafon, but leave out one of the whites, put a lpoonful or two of water to them, and beat them up to a froth, and put them in the flour, have as much new milk as will wet it, make it juft warm, and mix it up, lay a handful of flour and drive it about, holding one hand in the dough, and driving it with the other hand till it is quite light, then put it in your pan again, and put it near the ' fire, and cover it with a cloth, and let it ftand an hour and a quarter; make your rolls ten minutes before you fet them in the oven, and prick them with a fork; if they are the bignefs of a French roll, three-quarters of an hour will bake them’. To moke Tea Crumpets. BEAT two eggs very well, put to them a quart of warm milk and water, and a large fpoonful of barm; beat in as much fine flour as will make them rather thicker than a common batter28o THE EXPERIENCED batter pudding, then make your bake-flone very hot, and rub it with a little butter wrapped in a clean linen cloth, then pour a large fpoon- ful of battei upon your Hone, and let it run to the lize or a tea-laucer; turn it, and when you want to ufe them roaft them very crifp, and butter them. CHAP. XII. LITTLE SAVOURY DISHES. ‘To ragoo Pigs Feet and Ears. BOIL your feet and ears, ,then fplit your feet down the middle, and cut the ears in nar- iow llices, dip them in batter, and fry them a good .brown, put a little beef gravy into a tolling- pan, with a tea-lpoonful of lemon pickle, a large one of mulhroom catchup, the fame of brown- ing, and a little fait, thicken it with a lump of butter rolled in flour, and put in your feet and ears, give them a gentle boil, and then lay your feet in the middle of your difli, and the ears round them, ft rain your gravy and pour it over. Garnilh with curled parlley.- —It is a pretty corner-difh for dinner. To make a Solomongundy. TAKE the white part of a roafted chicken, the yolks-of four boiled eggs, and the whites of the fame, two pickled herrings, and a handful'af parfley,-ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 281 parfley, chop them feparately exceeding fmall, take the fame quantity of lean boiled ham fcraped fine, turn a China bafon uplide down in the mid- .dle of a difh, make a quarter of a pound of butter in the fhape of a pine-apple and fet it on the bafon bottom, lay round yoitr bafon a ring of fhred parfley, then a ring of yolks of eggs, then whites, then ham, then chicken, then herring, till you have covered your bafon, and ufed all the ingredients; lay the bones of the pickled herrings upon it, with the tails up to the butter, and the heads lying on the edge of the difh; lay a few capers, and three or four pickled oyfters round your difh, and fend it up. Solomongqndy a fcco?id. Way. CHOP all the ingredients as for the firfl, mix them well together, and put in the middle of your difh a large Seville orange, and your ingredients round it, rub a little cold butter through a fleve, and it will curl, lay it in lumps on the meat; flick a fprig of curled parfley on your butter, and ferve it up. To roajl a Calf’s Heart. MAKE a forcemeat with the crumbs of half a penny loaf, a quarter of a pound of beef fuet Ihred fmall, or butter, chop a little parfley, fweet-marjoram, and lemon peel, mix it up with a little nutmeg, pepper, fait, and the yolk of an egg, fill your heart, and lay over the fluf- fing a caul of veal, or writing-paper, to keep it O o in282 THE EXPERIENCED in the heart, lay it in a Duch oven, keep turn- ( ing it, and roaft it'thoroughly; when you difh it up, pour over it good melted butter, lay dices of lemon round it, and fend it to table. i To drefs a Difh of Lamb Bits. SKIN the ftones and fplit them, lay them on : a dry cloth with the fweetbreads and liver, and dredge them well with flour, and fry them in boiling lard or butter a light brown, then lay them on a fieve to dry; fry a good quantity of parfley, lay your bits on the difh, and the parfley in lumps over it; pour melted butter round them. To fricaffce Calf’s Feet. BOIL your feet, take out the bones, and cut the meat in thin flices-, and put it into a tolling*- pan, with half a pint of good gravy, boil them a little, and then put in a few morels, a tea- fpoonful of lemon pickle, a little rnufhroom- powder, or pickled mulhrooms, the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, and a little fait, thicken with a little butter rolled in flour, mix the yolk' of an egg with a tea-cupful of good cream, and half a nutmeg grated, put it in, and fliake it over the fire, but do not let it boil, it will curdle the milk: garnifh with lemon and curled parfley. Chickens in Savoury Jelly. ROAST two chickens, then boil a gang of calf’s feet to a flrong jelly, take out theTeet, fkiin ‘IENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 283 fkim off the fat, beat the whites of three eggs very well, then mix them with half a pint of white wine vinegar, the juice of three lemons, a blade or two of mace, a few pepper-corns, and a little fait, put them to your jelly; when it has boiled five or fix minutes, run it through a jelly-bag feveral times till it is very clear, then put a little in the bottom of a bowl that will hold your chickens, when they are cold, and £he jelly quite fet, lay them in with their breafts down, then fill up your bowl quite full with the reft of your jelly, which you muft take care to keep from fettirjg (fo that when you pour it into your bowl it will not break) let it ftand all night, the next day put your bafon into warm water, pretty near the top; as foon as you find it loofe in the bafon, lay .your difli over it, and turn it out upon it. Pigeons in Savoury Jelly. ROAST your pigeons with the head and feet on, put a fprig of myrtle in their bills, make a jelly for them the fame way as for the chickens, pour a little into a bafon, when it is fet lay in the pigeons with their breafts down, fill up your bowl with jelly, and turn it out as before. Small Birds in Savoury Jelly. TAKE eight fmall birds, with their heads and feet on, put a good lump of butter in them and few up their vents, put them in a jug, cover it clofe with a cloth, fet them in a kettle of O o 2 boiling284 THE EXPERIENCED boiling water till they are enough, drain them* make your jelly as before, put a little into a bal'on, when it is fet lay in three birds with their breads down, cover them with the jelly, when it is fet put the other five with the heads in the middle, fill up your bowl with jelly as before, and turn it out the fame way. Smelts in Savoury Jelly. GUT and wafh your fmelts, feafon them with mace and fait, lay them in a pot with butter over them, tie them down with paper, and bake them half an hour, take 'them out, and when they are a little cool lay them feparately on a board to drain, when they are quite cold lay them on a deep plate in what form you pleafe, pour cold jelly over them, and they will look like live fifh.—Make your jelly as before. Craw-Fish in Savoury Jelly. BOIL your craw-fifh, then put a little jelly in a bowl, made as for the chickens, when it is fet put in a few craw-fifh, then cover them with jelly, when it is cold put in more lays till your bowl is full, let it ftand all night, and turn them out the fame as the chickens. Craw-Fish in Jelly. BOIL half a dozen large craw-fifh, and let them cool, wipe them clean, lay them in a punch-bowl, with their baeks downwards, pour on them fome nice calf’s-foot jelly, when it is cold\ ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. • 285 cold turn it out upon a glafs difh; it makes a very pretty fide-difh for either dinner or fupper. To drefs Maccaroni with Parmesan Cheese. BOIL four ounces of maccaroni till it be quite tender, and lay it on a fieve to drain, then put it in a tofling-pan, with about a gill of good cream, a lump of butter rolled in flour, boil it 'five minutes, pour it on a plate, lay all over it Parmefan cheele toafted ; fend it to table on a water-plate, for it foon goes cold. To Jlew Cheeses with Light Wigs. CUT a plateful of cheefe, pour on it a glafs of red wine, flew it before the fire, toaft a light wig, pour over it two or three fpoonfuls of hot red wine, put it in the middle of your difh, lay the cheefe over it, and ferve it up. To Jlew Cheese. CUT your cheefe very thin, lay it in a toafler, fet it before the fire, pour a glafs of ale over it, let it Hand till it is all like a light cuflard, then pour it on toafls or wigs, and fend it in hot. To Jlew Cardoons. TAKE the infide of your cardoons, wafh them well, boil them in fait and water, put them into a tofling-pan, with a little veal gravy, a tea-fpoonful of lemon pickle, a large one of mufhroom catchup, pepper and fait to your tafle,286 THE EXPERIENCED talle, thicken it with flour and butter, boil it .! a little, and ferve it up in a foup-plate. Tofry CARDOONS. BOIL } our cardoons as you did for Hewing, then dip them in, batter made of a fpoonful of flour and ale, fry them in a pan of boiling lard, pour melted butter oyer them, and ferve them up. ■ ‘ i To ragoo Celery. i TAKE off all the outfides of your heads of celery, cut them in pieces, put them in a tof- flng-pan, with a little veal gravy or water, boil them till they are tender, put to it a tea-fpoonful of lemon pickle, a meat-fpoonful of white wine, and a little fait; thicken it with flour and but- 1 ter, and ferve them up with fippets. ' , To fry Celery, j BOIL your celery as for a ragoo, then cut it { and dip it in batter, fry it a light brown in hog’s t lard; put it on a plate, and pour melted butter upon it. To few Celery. TAKE off the outfide and the green ends of 1 your heads of celery, boil them in water till they are very tender, put in a llice of lemon, a little beaten mace, thicken it with a good lump of butter and flour, boil it a little, beat the yolks of iENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 2S7 of two eggs, grate in half a nutmeg, mix them 'with a tea-cupful of good cream, put it to your gravy, fhake it over the fire till it be of a fine thicknels, but do not let it boil; ferve jt up hot. To fcollop Potatoes. BOIL your potatoes, then beat them fine in a bowl with good cream, a lump of butter, and fait, put them into fcollop-fhells, make them fmooth on the top, fcore them with a knife, lay thin dices of butter on the top of them, put them in a Dutch oven to brown before the fire. Three fhells are enough for a difh. To Jlew Mushrooms. TAKE large buttons, wipe them with a wet flannel, put them in a ffew-pan, with a little water, let them flew a quarter of an hour, then put in a little fait, work a little flour and butter to make it as thick as cream, let it boil five minutes, when you difh it up, put two large fpoonfuls of cream mixed with the yolk of an egg, fhake it over the fire about a minute or two, but do not let it boil for fear of curdling ; put fippets round the infide of the rim of the difh, but not toafted, and ferve it up. It is proper for a fide-difh for fupper, or a corner for dinner. Another Way to jlew Mushrooms. TAKE your mufhrooms, if they are buttons, rub them with a flannel, and put. them in milk andsSS THE EXPERIENCED and water; if flaps, peel, gill, and wafh them, put them into your Aew-pan with a little veal grav^, a little mace and fait, thickened with a little cream and the yolks of three eggs* keep it ftirring all the time leaft it curdle, and ferve them hot. To 77lake Mushroom Loaves. 1AKE jmall buttons, wafh them as for pick- ling, put them in a toffing-pan, with a little white bread crumbs that have been boiled half an hour in water, then boil your mufhrooms in the bread and water five minutes, thicken it with flour and butter, and two fpoonfuls of cream, but no yolks of eggs, put in a little fait, then take five final] French roils, make holes in the tops of them about the fize of a Hulling, and fcrape out all the crumb, and put in your mufh- rooms; flick a bay leaf on the top of every roll. Five is a handfome difh for dinner, or three for flipper. To ragoo Mushrooms. TAKE large mufhrooms, peel, and take out the infide, broil them on a grid-iron, when the outfide is brown put them into a tofling-pan* with as much water as will cover them, let them fiand ten minutes, then put to them a fpoonful or white wine, the lame of browning, a very little alegar, thicken it with flour and butter, boil it a little, lay fippets round your difn, and ferve it up. To fi ter l tli> ilii wi in llii md iro wtENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 289 To Jlew Peas with Lettuces. SHELL your peas, boil them in hard water with fait in it, drain them in a fieve, then cut your lettuces in dices, and fry them in frefh but- ter, put your peas and lettuces into a tofling- pan, with a little good gravy, pepper, and fait, thicken it with Hour and butter, put in a little fhred mint, and ferve it up in a foup-difh. To poach Eggs with Toasts. PUT your water on in a flat-bottomed pan, with a little fait, when it boils break your eggs carefully in, and let them boil two minutes, then take them up with an egg lpoon, and lay them on buttered toafts. * To drefs Eggs and Spinage. PICK and wafh your fpinage in feveral waters, fet a pan over the fire with a large quantity of water, throw a -handful of fait in, when it boils put your fpinage in, and let it boil two minutes, take it up with a fllh-flice, and lay it on the back of a hair fieve, lqueeze the water out, and put it in a toffing-pan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, keep turning and chopping it with a knife till it is quite dry, then prefs it a little betwixt two pewter plates, cut it in the fhape of fippets, and fome in diamonds, poach your eggs as before, and lay them on your fpinage, and ferve them up hot.—N. B. You may boil brocoli inftead of fpinage, and lay it in bunches betwixt every egg. To Pp2.9° THE experienced To drcfs Eggs with Artichoke Bottoms. BOIL your artichoke bottoms in hard water, if dry ones in foft water, put in a good lump of buttei in the water, it will make them boil in half the time, and they will be white and plump; when you take them up put the yolk of an hard e££ hi the middle of every bottom, and pour good melted butter upon them, and ferve them np; you may lay afparagus, or brocoli, betwixt every bottom. t th1 (in pi it it tin fill li To make a Fricajfee of Eggs. \f BOIL your eggs pretty hard, cut them in round dices, make a wh'te fauce the tame way as for boiled chickens, pour it over your eggs, lay fippets round them, and put a whole yolk in the middle ol your plate.1—It is proper for a corner-difh at fupper. fry k wl Hr tai To fry Sausages. CUT them m fmgle links, and fry them in frefh butter, then take a flice of bread, and fry it a good brown in the butter you fryed the fau- fages in, ana lay it in the bottom of your difh, put the faufages on the toaft, in four parts, and lay poached eggs be wixt them; pour a little good melted butter round tkem3 and ferve them up. * To i r Will and and ofl lot, baiENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 491 To Pp 2 To Jlew CuCUMB RS. PEEL off the out-rind dice the cucumbers pretty thick, fry them in frefli butter, and lay them on a fieve to drain, put them into a tof- fmg-pan, with a large glafs of red wine, the fame of ftrong gravy, a blade or two of mace, make it pretty thick with Hour and butter, and when it boils put in your cucumbers, keep fhak'ng them, and let them boil five minutes, be care- ful you do not break them; pour them into a difh, and ferve them up. To make an Amulet. PUT a quarter of a pound of butter into a frying-pan, break fix eggs, and beat them a little, drain them through a hair lieve, put them in when your butter is hot, and drew in a little fhred parlley and boiled ham feraped fine, with nutmeg, pepper, and fait, fry it brown on the under-fide, lay it on your difh, but do not turn it, hold a hot lalamander half a minute over it, to take off the raw look of the eggs; ftick curled parlley in it, and ferve it up.—N. B. You may put in clary and chives, or onions if you like it. To make an Amulet of Asparagus. TAKE fix eggs, beat them up with cream, boil fome of the largeft and fineft afparagus, when boiled cut off all the green in fmall pieces, and mix them with the eggs, and fome pepper and fait; make your pan hot, and put in a dice of butter, then put them in, and fend them up hot. You may ferve them up hot on buttered toads.292 THE EXPERIENCED, E*. To make Panada. GRATE the crumb of a penny loaf, and boil it in a pint of water, with one onion and a few pepper-corns, till quite thick and foft, then put in two ounces of butter, a little fait, and half a pint of thick cream, keep ftirring it till it is like a fine cuftard, pour it into a foup- plate, and ferve it up. -N. B. You may ufe fugar and currants, inftead of onions and pep- per-corns, if you pleafe. To make a Ramequin of Cheese. TAKE fome old Chelhire-cheefe, a lump of butter, and the yolk of a hard boiled egg, and beat it very well together in a marble mor- tar, fpread it on fome flices of bread toafted and buttered; hold a falamander over them and fend them up.lotSoT^oTo^ooooooooooooooooooooooc^o^co^ part hi. CHAP. XIII. Obfervatlons on Potting and Collaring. COVER your meat well with butter, and tie over it ftrong paper, and bake it well ; when it comes out cf the oven pick out all the Pci ns quite clean, and drain the meat from the gravy, or the Ikins will hinuer it from cooking well, and the gravy will foon turn it four, beat your feafoning well before you put in your meat, and put it in by degrees as you are beat- in0- ; when you put it into your pots, prels it well, and let it be quite cold before you pour the clarified butter over it. In collaring, be careful you roll it up, and bind it dole, boil it till it is thoroughly enough, when quite cold put it into pickle with the binding on, next day take off the binding, when it will leave the fkin clear ; make frelh pickle often, and your meat will keep good a long time. \ To pot Beef. 1 - RUB twelve pounds of beef with half a pound of brown fugar, and one, ounce of falt- petre, let it lie twenty-four hours, then wafh it clean and dry it well with a cloth, feafon it with a little beaten mace, pepper and fait to your tafte,•294 THE EXPERIENCED talk, cut it into five or fix pieces, and put it in upon k P?t\w‘th a P°™d of butter in lumps poll it, fet it in a hot oven, and let it Hand outef,desUrS’ M ™ — C k °Ut’ CUt off the hard -fides, and beat it in a mortar ; add to it a lit- tle more mace, pepper, and fait: oil a pound of butter m the gravy and fat that came from your beef and put it m as you fee it requires it. and beat it exceeding fine, then put it into your pots, over o.te^ clofe down; pour clarified butter over it, and keep it in a dry place. To pot Beef to eat like Venison. PUT ten pounds of beef into a deep dilh, pour over it a pmt of red wine, and let it lie in it lor two days, then .feafon. it with mace, pep- per, and lalt, and put it into a pot with the wine it was fteeped in, add to it a large glafs more of wine, tie it down with paper, and bake it three hours in a quick oven; when you take it out beat it m a mortar or wooden bowl, clarify a pound of butter, and put it in as you fee it re- quires it, keep beating it till it is a fine pafte, then put it into your pots, lay a paper over it, and let on a weight to prels it down; the next day pour clarified butter over it, and keep it in a dry place for ufe. To pot Ox Cheek. WHEN you flew an ox cheek, take fome of the flefhy part, and feafon it well with fait and pepper, and beat it very fine in a^mortar with a uttle clear fat dimmed off the gravy, then put itENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 293' it dole into your potting-pots, and pour over it clarified butter, and keep it for ufe. To pot Venison. IF your venifon be ftale rub it with vinegar, and let it lie one hour, then dry it clean with a cloth, and rub it all over with red wine, feafon it with beaten mace, pepper, and fait, put it on an earthen difh, and pour over it half a pint of red wine, and a pound of butter, and let it in the oven; if it be a fhoulder, put a coarfe pafte over it, and bake it all night in a brown bread oven; when it comes out, pick it clean from the bones and beat it in a marble mortar, with the fat from your gravy; if you find it not feafoned enough, add more leafoning and clarified butter, and keep beating it till it is a fine pafte, then prefs it hard down into your pots, and pour cla- rified butter over it, and keep it in a dry place. To pot Veal. CUT a fillet of veal in three or four pieces, feafon it with pepper, fait, and a little mace, put it into pots with half a pound of butter, tie a paper over it, and fet it in a hot oven, and bake it three hours, when you take it out cut off all the outfides, then put the veal in a marble mor- tar, and beat it with the fat from your gravy, then oil a pound of frefh butter, and put it in a little at a time, and keep beating it till you fee it is like a fine pafte, then put it clofe down into your potting-pots, put a paper upon it, and fet on a weight to prefs it bat'd; when your veal is296 THE EXPERIENCED is cold and ftiff, pour over it clarified butter, the thicknefs of a crown-piece, and tie it down. To pot Marble Veal. BOIL a dried tongue, fkin it, and cut it as un as poffiblg, and beat at exceeding well with neai a pound of butter and a little beaten mace, till it is like a pafte; have ready veal hewed and beat the fame way as before, then put fome veal mto your potting-pots, then fome tongue in lumps over the veal: fill your pot clofe up with veal, and prefs it very hard down, and pour cla- rified butter over it, and keep it in a dry place. N. b. Do not lay on your tongue in any form, but in lumps, and it will cut like marble; when you fend it to the table cut it out in dices, and garnifh it with curled parfley. To pot Tongues. TAKE a neat’s tongue, and rub it with an ounce of falt-petre and four ounces of brown fugar, and let it lie two days, then boil it till it is quite tender, and take off the fkin and fide- bits, then cut the tongue in very thin dices, and beat it in a marble mortar, with one pound of clarified butter, mace, pepper, and fait to your tafte, beat it exceeding fine, then put it clofe down into fmall potting-pots, and pour clarified butter over it.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 297 To pot a HARE; HANG up your hare four or five days with the fkin on, then cafe it, and cut it up as for eat- ing, put it in a pot, and fealon it with mace, pepper, and fait, put a pound of butter upon it, tie it down, and bake it in a bread oven* when it comes out, pick it clean from the bones, and pound it very fine in a mortar, with the fat from your gravy, then put it clofe down into your pots, and pour clarified butter over it, and keep it in a dry place. To pot Ham with Chickens. TAKE as much lean of a boiled ham as you pleafe, and half the quantity of fat, cut it as thin as pofiible, beat it very fine in a mortar, with a little oiled butter, beaten mace, pepper, and fait, put part of it into a China pot, then beat the white part of a fowl with a very little feafoning; it is to qualify the ham ; put a layer of chicken, then one of ham, then chicken at the top, prefs it hard down, and when it is cold pour clarified butter over it, when you fend it to the table cut out a thin flice in the form of half a diamond, and lay,it round the edge of your pot. To pot Woodcocks. PLUCK fix woodcocks, draw out the train ; Ikewer their bills through their thighs, and put the legs through each other, and their feet upon their breafts, leafon them with three or four Oil blades /*9« THE experienced To blades of mace, and a little pepper and fait, theft put them into a deep pot, with a pound of but- ter over them, tie a ffrong paper over them, and bake them in a moderate oven ; when they are enough lay them on a difh, to drain the gravy from them, then put them into potting-pots, and take all the clear butter from your gravy, and put it upon them, and fill up your pots with clarified butter, and keep them in a dry place. To pot Moor Game. PICK and draw your moor game, wipe them clean with a cloth, and feafon them pretty well with mace, pepper, and fait, put one leg through the other, roaft them till they are quite enough, and a good brown; when they are cold put them into potting-pots, and pour over them clarified butter, and keep them in a dry place.—N. B. Ob- l'erve to leave their heads uncovered with butter. To pot Pigeons. PICK your pigeons, cut off the pinions, wafh them clean, and put them into a lleve to drain, then dry them with a cloth, and feafon them with pepper and fait, roll a lump of butter in chop- ped pariley, and put it into the pigeons, few up the vents, then put them into a pot with butter over them, tie them down, and fet them in a moderate oven ; when they come out, put them into potting-pots, and cover them well with clarified butter.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 299 To Q^q 2 To pot all Kinds of fulfill Birds. PICK and gut your birds, dry them well with a- cloth, leafon them with mace, pepper, and ialt, then put them into a pot with butter, tie your pot down with paper, and bake them in a moderate oven; when they come out, drain the gravy from them, and put them into potting- pots, and cover them with clarified butter. To make a cold Porcupine o/'Beef. SALT a flank of beef the fame way as you did the round of beef, and turn it every day for a fortnight at leaft, then lay it flat upon a table, beat it an hour, or till it is loft all over, then rub it over with the yolks of three eggs, ftrew over it a quarter of an ounce of beaten mace, the fame of nutmeg, pepper and lalt to your tafte, the crumb of two penny loaves, and two large handfuls of parfley fhred fmall, then cover it with thin flices of fat bacon, and roll your beef up very tight, and bind it well with packthread, boil it four hours, when it is cold, lard it all over, one row with the lean of ham, a fecond with cucumbers, a third" with fat bacon, cut them in pieces about the thicknefs of a pipe, fliank and lard it lo that it may appear red, green, and white; lend it to the table with pickles and fcraped hprfe-radilh round it, keep it in fait and water, and a little vinegar.—You may keep it four or five days without pickle.3op" THE EXPERIENCED To collar a Breast of Veal. BONE your veal, and beat it a little, then rub it over with the yolk of an egg, ftrew over it a little beaten mace, nutmeg, pepper, and fait, a large handful of parfley chopped fmall, with a few fprigs of fweet-marjoram, a little le- mon peel cut exceeding fine, one anchovy wafh- ed, boned, and chopped very fmall, and mixed with a few bread crumbs, then roll it up very tight, bind it hard with a fillet, and wrap it in a clean cloth, then boil it two hours and a half in foft water; when it is enough, hang it up by one end, and make a pickle for it: to one pint of fait and water put half a pint of vinegar, when you fend it to the table cut a flice off one end; garniih with pickles and parfley. To collar a Calf’s-Head. TAKE a calf’s-head with the fkin on, and drefs off' the hair, then rip it down the face, and take out all the bones carefully from the meat, and fteep it in warm blue milk till it is white, then lay it flat, and rub it with the white of an egg, and ftrew over it a tea-fpoonful of white pepper, two or three blades of beaten mace, and one nutmeg, a fpoonful of'fait, two fcore of oyfters chopped fmall, half a pound of beef marrow, and a large handful of parfley, lay ' them all over the infide of the head, cut off the ears, and lay them in a thin part of the head, then roll it up tight, bind it up with a fillet, and wrap 1ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 301 To wrap it up in a clean cloth, boil it two hours, and when it is almoft cold bind it up with a frefh fillet, and put it in a pickle made as above, and keep it for ufe. 1 * To collar a Breast 0/ Mutton. BONE your mutton, and. rub it over with the yolk of an egg, then grate over it a little lemon peel, and a nutmeg, with a little pepper and fait, then chop fmall one tea-cupful of capers, two anchovies, fhred fine a handful of parfley, a few fweet herbs, mix them with the crumb of a penny loaf, and ftrew it over your mutton and roll it up tight, boil it two hours, then take it up, and put it into a pickle made as for the calf’s-head. } \ To collar a PiG. KILL your pig, drefs off the hair, and draw out the entrails, and wafh it clean, take a fharp knife, rip it open, and takeout all the bones, then rub it all over with pepper and fait beaten fine, a few fage leaves, and fweet herbs chopped fmall, then roll up your pig tight, and bind it with a fillet, then fill your boiler with foft water, one pint of vinegar, and a handful of fait, eight or ten cloves, a blade or two of mace, a few pep- per-corns, and a bunch of fweet herbs ; when it boils put in your pig, and boil it till it is ten- der, then take it up, and when it is almoft cold bind it over again, and put it into an earthen pot and pour the liquor your pig was boiled in upon it, keep it covered, and it is fit for ufe.302 THE EXPERIENCED To collar a Swine’s Face. , CHOP the face in many places, and walh it in feveral waters, then boil it till the meat will leave the bones, take out the bones, cut open the ears, and take out the ear roots, cut the meat in pieces, and feafon it with pepper and fait; while it is hot put it into an earthen pot, and fet the ears round the outfide of the meat, put a board on that will go in the infide of the pot, and fet a heavy weight upon it, and let it ftand all night, the next day turn it out, cut it round-ways, and it will look clofe and bright. To make Mock Brawn. TAKE a piece of the belly-part, and the head of a young porker, rub it with falt-petre, and let it lie three days, then wafh it clean, lplit the head and boil it, then take out the bones, and cut it in pieces, then take four ox feet boiled tender and cut in thin pieces, lay them in your belly-piece with a head cut fmall, then roll it up tight with fheet tin, that a trencher will go in at each end, boil it four or five hours; when it comes out, let it upon one end, and prefs the trencher down with a large lead weight, let it ftand all night, and in the morning take it out of your tin, and bind it with a white fillet, put it into cold fait and water, and it will be fit for ufe. N. B. You mull make frelh fait and water every four days, and it will keep a long time.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 303 To collar Flat Ribs o/'Beef. BONE your beef, lay it flat upon a table, and beat it half an hour with a wooden mallet till it is quite foft, then rub it with fix ounces of brown lugar, four ounces of common fait, and one ounce of lalt-petre beat fine, let it lie then for ten days, and turn it once every day, take it out, then put in warm water for eight or ten hours, then lay it flat upon a table, with the out- ward flcin down, and cut it in rows, and a-crofs, about the breadth of your finger, but take care you do not cut the outfide flcin ; then fill one nick with chopped parfley, the fecond with fat pork, the third with crumbs of bread, mace, nutmeg, pepper, and fait, then parfley, and fo on till you have filled all your nicks; then roll it up tight, and bind it. round with coarfe broad tape, wrap it in a cloth, and boil it four or five hours ; then take it up, and hang it up by one end of the firing to keep it round, fave the liquor it was boiled in, the next day fkim it, and add to it half the quantity of alegar as you have liquor, and a little mace, long pepper, and fait, then put in your beef, and keep it for ufe. N. J3. When you fend it to the table cut a little off both ends, and it will be in diamonds of different colours, and look very pretty, fet it upon a diffi as you do brawn : if you make a frefli pickle every week it will keep a long time. To collar Beef. SALT your beef, and beat it as before, then rub it over with the yolks of eggs, firew over it two3°4 THE EXPERIENCED two large handfuls of parfley Hired fmall, half an ounce of mace, black pepper and fait to your tape, roll it up tignt, and bind it about with a coarfe broad tape, and boil it till it is tender; make a pickle for it the fame way as before. To force a Round of Beef. TARE a good round of beef, and rub it over a quarter of an hour with two ounces of falt- petre, the fame of bay fait, half a pound of brown iugar, and a pound of common fait, let it lie in it for ten or twelve days, turn it once every day in the brine, then w'afh it well, and make holes in it with a penknife about an inch one from another, and fill one hole with fhred parfley, a fecond with fat pork cut in fmall pieces, and a third with bread crumbs, beef marrow, a little mace, nutmeg, pepper, and fait, mixed together, then parfley, and fo on till you have filled all the holes, then wrap your beef in a cloth, and bind it with a fillet, then boil it four hours; wdien it is cold, bind it over again, and cut a thin ilice off before you fend it to the table : garnifh with parfley and red cabbage. To fbufe a Turkey. KILL your turkey and let it hang four or five days in the feathers, then pick it and flit it up the back, and take out the entrails, bone itT and bind it with a piece of matting like flurgeon or Newcaftle falmon, fet over the fire a clean lauce-pan, with a pint of ffrong alegar, a fcore of cloves, three or four blades of mace, a nut- li< fe tb F1 Vt iiiENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 305 meg diced, a few pepper corns, and a handful of fait, when it boils put in the turkey, and boil it an hour, then take it up, and when cold put it into an earthen pot, and pour the liquor over it, and keep it for ufe. When you fend it to table lay fprigs of fennel over it. To foufe Pigs Feet and Ears. CLEAN your pigs feet and ears, and boil them till they are tender, then fplit the feet, and put them into fait, and water with the ears; when you ufe them dry them well with a cloth, and dip them in batter made of flour and eggs, fry them a good brown, and fend them up with good melted butter.—N. B. You may eat them cold ; make frefh pickle every two days, and they will keep fome time. To foufe Tripe. WHEN your tripe is boiled, put it into fait and water, change the fait and water every day till you ufe it, dip it in better, and fry it as the pigs feet and ears, or boil it in freih fait and water, with an onion fliced, a few fprigs of parfley, and fend melted butter for fauce. To hang a Surloin of Beef to roaf. TAKE the the luet off a furloin, and rub it half an hour with one ounce of falt-petre, four ounces of common fait, and half a pound of browm fugar, hang it up ten or twelve days, then wafh it, and roaff it; you may eat it either hot or cold. R r To 03°6 THE EXPERIENCED To fait El A MS. AS foon as yoar hams are cut out, rub them ■very well with one ounce of falt-petre, half an ounce of lalt prunella pounded, and one pound or common fait to every ham, lay them in lead or earthen falt-pans for ten days, turn them once in the time, then rub them well with more com- mon fait, let them lie ten days longer, and turn them every day ; then take them out, and fcrape them exceeding dean, and dry them well with a clean cloth, and rub it flightly over with a little fait, and hang them up to dry. To fmoks Hams. WHEN you take your hams out of the pickle, and have rubbed them dry with a coarfe cloth, hang them in a chimney, and make a fire of oak fhavings, and lay it over horfe litter, and one pound of juniper berries ; keep the fire fmo- thered down for two or three* days, and then hang them up to dry. To fait Chops. THROW over your chops a handful of fait, and lay them fkin-fide down aflant on a board, to let all the blood run from them; the next day pound to every pair of chops one ounce of bay fait, the fame of falt-petre, two ounces of brown fugar, and half a pound of common fait, mix them together, and rub them exceeding well, let them lie ten days in your falting-ciflern, then rubENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 307 rub them with common fait, and let them lie a week longer, then rub them clean? and hang jthem to dry in a dry place. To fait Bacon. WHEN your pig is cut down, cut off the hams and head, if it be a large one cut out a chine, but leave the fpare-ribs, it keeps the bacon from ruffing, and the gravy i», lalt it with common lalt and a little falt-petre (but neither bay fait nor fugar) let it lie ten days on a table, that will let all the brine run from it, then fait it again ten or twelve days, turning it every day after the fecond faking, then fcrape it very clean, rub a little dry faff on it, and hang it up.—N. B. Take care to fcrape the white froth off very clean that is on it, which is caufed by the fait to work out of your pork, and rub on a little dry faff, it keeps the bacon from ruff- ing ; the dry faff will candy, and fhine like dia- monds on your bacon, To fait Tongues. SCRAPE your tongues, and dry them clean with a cloth, and faff them well with common faff, and half an ounce of falt-petre to every tongue, lay them in a deep pot, and turn them every day for a week or ten days, faff them again, and let them lie a week longer, take them up, dry them with a cloth, flour them, and hang them up. R r 2the experienced 3°S ther, To fait a Leg c/’Mutton. FOUN D one ounce of bay file, and half an ounce of falt-petre, and rub it all over your leg or mutton and let tt lie all night; the next day iah tt well with common fait, and let it lie a week or ten days, then hang it up to dry. To pickle Pork. CUT your pork in fuch pieces as will be moft convenient to he in your powdering-tub, rub every piece all over with falt-petre," then take one part bay fait, and two parts common fait, anu mb every piece well, lay the pieces as clofe as podible m your tub, and throw a little fait over. To pickle Beef. TAKE fixteen quarts of cold water, and put to it as much fait as will make it bear an e^n then add two pounds of bay fait, half a pound Of lalt-petre pounded fmall, and three pounds ot brown fugar; mix all together, then put y0111 Dec* ^nto and keep it in a dry cool place. c H A P. XIV. Obfervatwns on Possets, Gruels, UV. TN making poflets, always mix a little of the •iL hot cream or milk with your wine, it will keep the wine from curdling the reft, and take the cream off the fire before you mix all toge-ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 309 tlier.—Obferve, in making gruels, that you boil them in well-tinned fauce-pans, lor nothing will fetch the vcrdigrife out of copper fooner than acids or wine, which are the chief ingredients in gruels, fagos, and wheys ; do not let your gruel or fago fkim over, for it boils into them, and makes them a muddy colour. To make a Sack Posset. GRATE two Naples bifcuits into a pint of thin cream, put in a Hick of cinnamon, and fet it over a flow lire, boil it till it is of a proper thicknefs ; then add half a pint of fack, a llice of the end of a lemon, with fugar to your talle ; ftir it gently over the fire, but do not let it boil left it curdle ; lerve it up with dry toaft. To make a Brandy Posset. BOIL a quart of cream over a flow lire, with 9. ftick of cinnamon in it, take it off to cool, beat the yolks of fix eggs very well, and mix them with the cream ; add nutmeg and fugar to your tafte, fet it over a flow fire, and ftir it one way; when it is like a line thin cuftard take it off, and pour it into your turrene or bowl, with a glafs of brandy; ftir it gently together, and ferve it up with tea-wafers round it. To make a Lemon Posset. GRATE the crumb of a penny loaf very fine, and put it into rather more than a pint of water, with half a lemon peel grated, or fugar rubbed upon it to take out the elfence; boil them toge-*- ther3*° THE experienced ther till it looks thick and clear, then beat it very well:—to the juice of half a lemon put in a pint ot mountain wine, three ounces of Jordan al- monds, and one ounce of bitter, beat'fine, with a little orange-flower water, or French brandy, and fugat to your tade; mix it well, and put it in your poffet, ferve it up in a turrene or bowl.— N. B. An orange poffet is made the fame way, To make an Almond Posset. GRATE the crumb of a penny loaf very fine, pour a pint of boiling milk upon it, let it ftand two or three hours, then beat it ex- ceeding well; add to it a quart of good cream, four ounces of almonds blanched, and beat as line as poflible, with role-water; mix them all well together, ana fet them over a very flow fire, and boil them a quarter of an hour, then fet it to cool, and beat the yolks of four eggs, and mix them with your cream; when it is cold lweeten.it to your talk; then ftir it over a flow fire till it grows pretty thick, but do not let it boil, it will curdle; then pour it into a China bowl; when you fend it to table put in three maccaroons to fwim on the top.-—It is proper for top at fupper. To make a Wine Posset. TAKE a quart of new milk and the crumb of a penny loaf, and boil them till they are loft; when you take it off the fire, grate in half a nut- meg, and fugar to your tafte; then put it into a China bowl, and put in a pint of Lilbon wine . carefully,ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 311 carefully, a little at a time, or it will make the curd hard and tough; ferve it up with toaft and butter upon a plate. To make an Ale Posset. PUT a little white bread in a pint of good milk, fet it over the fire; then warm a little more than a pint of good ftrong ale, with nutmeg and fugar to your tafte, then put it in a bowl; when your milk boils pour it upon your ale, let it Hand a few minutes to clear, and the curd will rife to the top ; then ferve it up. To mull Wine. GRATE half a nutmeg into a pint of wine, and fweeten to your tafte with loaf fugar; fet it over the fire, and when it boils take it off to cool; beat the yolks of four eggs exceeding well, add to them a little cold wine, then mix them carefully with your hot wine, a little at a time, then pour it backwards and forwards feverai times till it looks fine and bright, then fet it on the fire, and heat a little at a time for feverai times, till it is quite hot and pretty thick, and pour it backwards and forwards feverai times; then fend it up in chocolate cups, and ferve it up with dry toaft cut in long narrow pieces. To mull Ale. TAKE a pint of good ftrong ale, put it into a fauce-pan, with three or four cloves, nutmeg and fugar to your tafte, fet it over the fire, when itTHE EXPERIENCED it boils take it off to cool, beat the yolks of four eggs very well, and mix them with a little, told ale, then put it to your warm ale, and pour it in and out of your pan feveral times, then fet it over a llow lire and heat it a little, then take it off again, and heat it two or three times till it is quite hot, then ferve it up with a dry toaft. To male mulled Wine. BOIL a quart of new milk five minutes with a nick of cinnamon, nutmeg and fugar to your taffe, then take it off the fire, and let it hand to cool, beat the yolks of fix eggs very well, and mix them with a little cold cream, then mix them with your milk, and pour it backwards and forwards the fame as you do mulled ale, and fend it to table with a plate of bifcuits. To make Beef Tea. -t AK.E a pound ot lean beef, cut it in very thin flices, put it into a jar, and pour a quart of boiling water upon it, cover it very clofe to keep m the fleam, let it Hand by the fire, it is very good for a week conftitution, it muff be drank ■when it is milk warm. To makeThicken Broth. SKIN a Imall chicken, and fplit it in two, and boil one half in three half pints of water, with a blade or two of mace, a fmall cruft of white biead, boil it over a flow fire till it is reduced to halfENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 313 half the quantity, pour it into a bafon, and take off the fat, and fend it up with a dry toaft:. To make Chicken Water. SKIN half a fowl, break the bones, and cut the flefh as thin as poffible, then put it into a jar, and pour a pint of boiling water upon it, cover it clofe up, and fet it by the fire for three hours, and it will be ready to drink. To make Mutton Broth. TAKE the ferag end of a neck of mutton,' chop it into final! pieces, put it into a fauce-panj' and fill it with water, fet it over the fire, and when the feum begins to rife take it clean off, and put in a blade or two of mace, a little French barley, dr a cruft of white bread to thicken it; when you have boiled your mutton that it will {hake to pieces, ftrain your broth through a hair fieve, hum off the fat, and fend it up with dry toaft. To make White Wine Whey. PUT a pint of fkimmed milk, and half a pint of white wine into a bafon, let it ftand a few minutes, then pour over it a pint of boiling wa- ter, let it ftand a little, and the curd will gather in a lump, and fettle to the bottom, then pour your whey into a China bowl, and put in a lump ot fugar, a fprig of balm, or a flice of lemon. S s ToS<4 THE experienced \ To make Scurvy Grass Whey. BOIL a pint of blue milk, take it off to cool,, then put in two fpopnfuls of the juice of fcurvy grafs, and two fpoonfuls of good old verjuice, fet it over the fire, and it will turn to a fine whey; it is very good to drink in the fpring for the fcurvy. To make Cream of Tartar Whey. BUT a pint of blue milk over the fire, when it begins to boil, put in two tea-fpoonfuls of cream of tartar, then take it off the fire, and let it Hand till the curd fettles to the bottom of the pan, then pour it into a bafon to cool, and drink it milk warm,. . To make Barley Water., TAKE two ounces of barley, boil it in two quarts of water till it looks white, and the barley grows loft, then ftrain the water from the bar- ley, add to it a little currant-jelly or lemon.- N. B. You may put a pint more water to your barley, and boil it over again,- To make Grout Gruel. BOIL half a pint of grouts in three pints of water or more, as you would have your gruel for thicknefs, with a blade or two of mace in it; when your grouts are foft, put in it white wine and fugar to your tafte, then take it off the fire, put to it a quarter of a pound of currants wafhed and picked, put it in a China bowl, with a toak of bread round it, cut in long narrow pieces.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 315 To make Sago Gruel. TAKE four ounces of fago, give it a feald in hot water, then drain it through a hair fievy, and put it over the fire, with two quarts of water and a Hick: of cinnamon, keep fkumming it till it grows thick and clear; when your lago is enough, take out the cinnamon, and put in a pint of red wine; if you would have it very ftrong put in more than a pint, and fweeten it to your tafte, then fet it over the fire to warm, but do not let it boil after the wine is put in, it weakens the tafte, and makes the colour not fo deep a red; pour in into a turrene, and put in a flice of lemon when you are fending it to table. It is proper for a top-difh for lupper. To make Sago with Milk. WASH your fago in warm water, and fet it over the fire with a ftick of cinnamon, and as much water as will boil it thick and foft, then put in as much thin cream or new milk as will make it a proper thicknefs, grate in half a nut- meg, fweeten it to your tafte, and ferve it up in a China bowl or turrene.—It is proper for a top- difh for fupper. To make Barley Gruel. TAKE four ounces of pearl-barley, boil it in two quarts of water, with a ftick of cinnamon in it, till it is reduced to one quart, add to it a little more than a pint of red wine, and fugar to your tafte, walk and pick two or thred ounces of currants very clean.3*6 THE EXPERIENCED To make Water Gruel. TAKE one fpoonful of oatmeal, boil it in three pints of water for an hour and a half, or till it is fine and fmooth, then take it off the fire and let it hand to fettle, then pour it in a China now I, and add white wine, fugar, and nutmeg to your tafte, ferve it up hot with a buttered toaft upon a plate. To make a f'weet Panada. CUT all the cruft off a penny loaf, flice the reft very thin, and put it into a fauce-pan with a pint of water, boil it till it is very foft and looks clear, then put in a glafs of fack or Madeira wine, gia^e m a little nutmeg, and put in a lump of butter the fize of a walnut, and fugar to your tafte, beat it exceeding fine, then put it in a deep foup-difh, and ferve it up. N, B. You may leave out the wine and fugar, and put in a little good cream and a little fait, if you like it better. To make Chocolate. . * i SCRAPE four ounces of chocolate, and pour f1 quart of boiling water Upon it, mill it well with a chocolate mill, and fweeten it to your tafte, £ive it a boil and let it ftand all night, then mill it again very well, boil it two minutes, then mill it till it will leave the froth upon the top of your cups. CHAP.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 317 CHAP. XV. Obfervations on Wines, Catchup, and Vinegar. WINE is a very neceffary thing in moft fa- milies, and is often fpoiled through mif- management of putting together, for if you let it ftand too long before you get it cold, and do not take great care to put your barm upon it in time, it fummer-beams and blinks in the tub, fo that it makes your wine fret in the calk, and will not let it fine; it is equally as great a fault to let it ■work too long in the tub, for that takes off all the fweetnefs and flavour of the fruit or flowers your wine is made from, fo the only caution I can give is to be careful in following the re- ceipts, and to have your veftels dry, rinfe them, with brandy, and clofe them up as foon as your wane has done fermenting. To make Lemon Wine to drink like Citron Water. PARE five dozen of lemons very thin, put the peels into five quarts of French brandy, and let them ftand fourteen days, then make the juice into a fyrup with three pounds of {ingle-refined fugar; when the peels are ready, boil fifteen gallons of water with forty pounds of ftngle-re- fmed fugar for half an hour, then put it into a tub; wThen cool, add to it one fpoonful of barm, let it work two1 days, then turn it and put in the |>randy, peels, and fyrup, ftir them all together.3*8 • THE EXPERIENCED and clofe up your calk, let it Hand three months, tnen bottle it, and it will be pale, and as fine as any citron water; it is more like a cordial than wine. To make Lemon Wine a fecondWay. TO one gallon of water put three pounds of powder fugar, boil it a quarter of an hour; fcum it well, then pour it on the rinds of four lemons pared very thin, make the juice into a thick fyrup with half a pound of the above fugar, take a flice of bread toafted, and fpread on it a fpoonful of new barm, put it in the liquor when luke-warm, and lec it work two days, then tun it into your calk, and let it Rand three months, and then bottle it. To make Orange Wine. TO ten gallons of water add twenty-four pounds of lump fugar, beat the whites of fix eggs very well, and mix them when the water is cold, then boil it an hour, fcum it very well, take four dozen of the rougheft and largeft Seville oranges you can get, pare them very thin, put them into a tub, and put the liquor on boiling hot, and when you think it is cold enough add to it three or four lpoonfuls of new yeft, with the juice of the oranges, and half an ounce of cochineal beat fine, and boiled in a pint of water, ftir it all to- gether, and let it work four days, then put it in the cafks, and in fix weeks time bottle it for ufe. To make Orange Wine a fecond Way. TO ten gallons of water add twenty-feven pounds oi lump fugar, boil it one hour, fkim • itENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 319 it all the time, then take the peels of five dozen of oranges pared very thin, put them into a tub; when you take the liquor cfF the fire pour it upon them, and when it is almoft cold add to it three fpoonfuls of good yeft and free from being bitter, with the juice of all your oranges; let it work two or three days, fiir it twice a-day, then put it into a barrel with one quart of mountain wine, and four ounces of the fyrup of citron; ftir it well in the liquor; leave the barrel open till it has done working, then clofe it well up, let it ftand fix weeks, and then bottle it. To make Orange Wine a third Way. TAKE fix gallons of water, and fifteen pounds of powder fiugar, the whites of fix eggs well beat, boil them all three quarters of an hour, and fcum it well; when it is cold for working, take fix fpoonfuls of good yeft, and fix ounces of the fyrup of lemons, mix them well, and. add it to the liquor, with the juice and peel of fifteen oranges; let it work two days and one night, then tun it, and in three months bottle it. To make Smyrna Raisin Wine. TO one hundred of raifins put twenty gal- lons of water, let it ftand fourteen days, then put it into your calk; when it has been in fix months, add to it one gallon of French brandy, and when it is fine then bottle it. To make Elder Raisin Wine. I O every gallon of water put fix pounds of Malaga raifins ihred fraall, put them into a vef- fel,3** THE EXPERIENCED lei, pour the water on them boiling hot, and let it hand nine days, ftirnng it twice every day, get the elderberries when full ripe, pick them off the ftalks, put them into an earthen pot, and fet them in a moderate oven all night, then ftrain them through a coarfe cloth, and to every gal- lon of liquor add one quart of this juice, ftir it well together, then toaft a flice of bread, and fpread three fpoonfuls of yeft on both fides, and put it in your wine, and let it work a day or two, then tun it into your calk, fill it up as it works over, wrhen it has done working clofe it up, and let it Hand one yean }"' . ' i v. To make Raisin Wine another Way. BOIL ten gallons of fpring water one hour, when it is' milk warm to every gallon add fix? pounds of Malaga raiffns, clean picked and half chopped, ftir it up together twice a-day for nine or ten days, then run it through a hair fieve, and fqueeze the raiffns well with your hands, and put the liquor in your barrel, bung it clofe up,' and let it ftand three months, and then bottle'it.' To make Ginger Wine. TAKE four gallons of fpring water and feven.' pounds of Lifbon lugar, boil it a quarter of an hour, and keep {humming it well; when the liquor is cold fqueeze in the juice of two le- mons, then boil the peel with two ounces of ginger in three pints of water one hour; when it is cold put it all together into' a barrel, withENGLISH HOUSE-KEF.PER. 321 two fpoonfuls of yeft, a quarter of an ounce of ifinglafs beat very thin, and two ounces of jar railins, then clofe it up, and let it hand feven weeks, then bottle it; the bed: feafon to make it is the fpring. To malfc Pearl Gooseberry Wine. TAKE as many of the bell pearl goofeberries when ripe as you pleafe, bruife them with a wooden peftle in a tub, and let them Hand all night, then prefs and fqueeze them through a hair iieve, let the liquor Hand leven or eight hours, then pour it clear from the fediments; and to every three pints of liquor add a pound of double-refined fugar, and fiir it about till it is melted, then put to it five pints of water, and two pounds more of fugar, then diffolve half an ounce of ifinglafs in part of the liquor that has been boiled, put all in your cafk, flop it well up for three months, then bottle it, and put in every bottle a lump of double-refined fugar. ■ This is excellent wine. To make Gooseberry Wine a fccojid Way. TO a gallon of w^ater put three pounds of lump fugar, boil it a quarter of an hour, and fcum it very well, then let it Hand till it is al- moft cold, and take four quarts of goofeberries when full ripe, bruiie them in a marble mor- tar, and put them in your veflel, then pour in the liquor, and let it Hand two days, and fiir it every four hour's j deep half an ounce of ifinglafs322 THE EXPERIENCED m a pint of brandy two days, drain the wine through a flannel bag into a calk, then beat the iiinglafs in a marble mortar with five whites of eggs, then whiik them together half an hour, and put it in the wine and beat them all together, clofe up your calk and put clay over it, let it Hand fix months, then bottle it off for ufe, put in each bottle a lump of luear and two raifins or the mn: this is a very rich wine, and when it has been kept in the bottles two or three years will drink like champagne. Ta make Blackberry Wine. GATHER your berries when they are full ripe, take twelve quarts, and cruffi them with your hand, Toil fix gallons of water with twelve pounds of brown fugar a quarter of an hour, feum it well, then pqur it on the blackberries, and let it (land all night, then ftrain it through a hair ffeve, put into your cafk fix pounds of Malaga raifins a little cut, then put the wine into the calk with one ounce of ifinglafs, which muff be diffblved in a little cyder, ftir it all up toge- ther, dole it up, and let it ftand fix months, and then bottle it. ,£7h make Raspberry Wine. GATHER your rafpberries when full ripe and quite dry, cruffi them diredtly and mix them with fugar, it will preferve the flavour, which they would l'ofe in two hours; to every quart of rafpberries put a pound of fine powder fugar, whenENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 323 when yon have got the quantity you intend to make, to every quart of rafpberries add two pounds more of fugar, and one gallon of cold water, ftir it well together, and let it ferment three days,' ftir ring it live or fix times a-day, then put it in your cafk, and for every gallon put in two whole eggs, take care they are not broke in putting them in, clofe it well up, and let it Hand three months, then bottle it. N. B.—If you gather the berries when the fun is hot upon them, and be quick in making your wine, it will keep the virtue in the rafpberries, and make the wine more plealant. To make Red Currant Wine. GATHER the currants when full ripe, ftrlp them from the Hems, and fqueeze out the juice; to one gallon of the juice put two gallons of cold water, and two fpoonfuls of yell, and let it work two days, then ftrain it through a hair ’ fieve, at the fame time put one ounce of ifin- glafs to fteep in cyder, and to every gallon of ' liquor add three pounds of loaf fugar, ftir it well together, put it in a good cafk: to every ten gal- lons of wine put two quarts of brandy, mix them all exceeding well in your cafk, clofe it well up, let it Hand four months, theii bottle it. To make Currant Wine another IVaj. TAKE an equal quantity of red and white currants, bake them an hour in a moderate oven, then fqueeze them through a coarfe cloth, what T t 2 water324 • the experienced water you intend to ufe have ready boiling;, and to every gallon of water put in one quart of juice and three pounds of .loaf fugar, boil it a qua, ter of an hour, fcum it well, then put it in a tub, when cool toaft a fliee of bread and fp'ead on both hdes two fpoonfuls of yell, and let .t work three days, ftir it three or four times cay, t en put it into a cafk, and to every ten gadons of wine add a quart of French brandy, and the whites of ten eggs well beat, make the cafk cloie up, and let it (land three months, then bottle it.-—JV. This is a pale wine, but it is a "very good one for keeping, and drinks pleafant. To make Sycamore Wine. i AKu two gallons of the fap and boil it half an hour, then add to it four pounds of fine pow- der fugar, beat the whites of three eggs to a troth, and mix them with the liquor, but if it be too hot it will poach the eggs, fcum- it very well, and beat it half an hour, then brain it ' through a hair fieve, and let it band till next a), then pour it clean from the fediments, put hair a pint of good yeb to every twelve gallons, cover it clofe up with blankets till it is white over, then put it into the barrel, and leave the bung-hole open till it has done working, then clofe it well up, let it franc! three months, then bottle it ; the fifth part of the fugar muft be oaf> and if you like raifins, they are a great ad- dition to the wine.—A7. B. You may make birch wme the fame way. ToENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 325 To make Birch Wine a fecond Way. BOIL twenty gallons of birch water half an hour, then put in thirty pounds of baftard fugar, boil your liquor and lugar three quarters of an hour, and keep fcumming it all the while, then put it into a tub, and let it hand till it is quite cold, add to it three pints of yell, flir it three or four times a-day for four or five days, then put it into a cafk, with two pounds of Malaga raifins, one pound of loaf fugar, and half an ounce of ifinglafs, which muft be diffolved in part of the liquor; then put to it one gallon of new ale that is ready for tunning, work it very well in the cafk five or fix days, then clofe it up, let it Land a year, and then bottle it off. To make Walnut Wine. TO every gallon of water put two pounds of brown fugar and one pound of honey, boil them half an hour, and take off the fcum, put into the tub a handful of walnut leaves to every gal- lon, and pour the liquor upon them; let it Hand all night, then take out the leaves, and put in half a pint of yeft, and let it work fourteen days, beat it four or five times a-day, which will take off the fweetnefs, then flop up the cafk, and let it ftand fix months.—This is a good wine againft confumptions, or any inward complaints. To make Cowslip Wine. TO two gallons of water add two pounds and a half of powder fugar, boil it half an hour, and326 THE EXPERIENCED and take off the fcum as it rifes, then pour it into a tub to cool, with the rinds of two lemons; when it is cold, add four quarts of cowflip flow- ers to the liquor, with the juice of two lemons; let it ftand in tne tub two days, Airring it every two or three hours, and then put it in the bar- rel, and let it ftand three weeks or a month, then bottle it, and put a lump of fugar into every bottle. N. B. It makes the beft and ftrongeft wine to have only the tops of the peeps. A fecond Way to make Cowslip Wine. BOIL twelve gallons of water a quarter of an hour, then add two pounds and a half of loaf fugar to every gallon of water, then boil it as long as the fcum rifes till it clears itfelf; when almoft cold, pour it into a tub, with one fpoon- ful of yeft, let it work one day, then put in thirty-two quarts of cowflip flowers, and let it work two or three days, then put it all into a barrel, with the parings of twelve lemons, the fame of oranges; make the juice of them into a thick fyrup, with two or three pounds of loaf fugar; when the wine has done working, add the fyrup to it, then flop up your barrel very well, let it ftand two or three months, and then bottle it. To make Elder Flower Wine. TAKE the flowers of elder, and be careful that you do not let any ftalks in; to every quart of flowers put one gall m of water and three pounds of loaf fugar, boil the water and lugar a quar- ter of an hour, then put it on the flowers, and letENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 327 let it work three days, then ftrain the wine thro’ a hair fieve, and put it into a caflc; to every ten gallons of wine add one ounce of ifinglafs dif- lolved in cyder, and fix whole eggs, dole it up, let it Hand fix months, and then bottle kv To make Balm Wine.’ TAKE nine gallons of water to forty pounds of fugar, boil it gently for two hours, feum it well, then put it into a tub to cool, then take two pounds and a half of the tops of balm, bruife it, and put it into a barrel with a little new yeft, and when the liquor is cold pour it on the balm, ftir it well together, and let it Hand twenty-four hours, and keep ftirring it often, then dole it up, and let it Hand fix weeks, then rack it off, and put a lump of fugar into every bottle, cork it well, and it will be better1 the fecond year than the firft. N. B. Clary wine is made the fame way. To make Imperial Water. PUT two ounces of cream of tartar into a large jar, with the juice and peels of two lemons, pour on them feven quarts of boiling water ; when it is cold, clear it through a gauze fieve, fweeten it to your take, and bottle it.—It will be fit to ufe the next day. To cure acid. Raisin Wine. THE following ingredients muff be propor- tioned to the degrees of -acidity or fournefs; if but Imall, you muff ufe lefs, if a ftronger acid, a larger quantity; it muff be proportioned to the quantity of wine, as well as the degree of acidity or328 THE EXPERIENCED or fournefs; be Eire that the cafk be near full betore you apply the ingredients, which will have this good effect, the acid part of the wine will nfe to the top immediately, and ifilie out at the bung-hole; but if the calk be not full, the part that Ihould fly off will continue in the calk, and weaken the body of the wine; but if your calk be full, it will be ready to have a body laid on it in three or four days time.—I lhall here proportion the ingredients for a pipe, hip- poking it to be quite acid, that is, juft recoverable, fake two gallons of fkimmcd milk, and two ounces of ifinglafs, boil them a quarter of an hour, ftrain the liquor, and let it ftand until it is cold, then break it well with your whilk, add to it four pounds of alabafter, and three pounds of whiting, ftir them well up together, then put m one ounce of fait of tartar, mix by degrees a little of the wine with it, fo as to diffolve it to a thm liquor, put thefe in your calk, and ftir it well with a paddle, and it will immediately dif- chaige the aciu pait rrom it as before-mentioned; when it has done fermenting, bung it up for three days, then rack it off, and you will find part of its body gone off by the ftrong fermentation; to remedy this, you muft lay a frelh body on, in proportion to the degree to which it hath been lowered by the above method, always having a fpecial care not to alter its flavour, and this muft be done with clarified fugar, for no fluid will agi ee with it Dut what will make it thinner, or confer its own tafte, therefore the following is the beft method for performing it: to lay a fielk body on wine, take three quarters of a hun- dredENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER, p0 dred of brown fugar, and put it into your cop- per, then put in a gallon of lime-water to keep it from burning, ftir it all the while till it boils, then mafh three eggs and Ihells all together, add them to the fugar, and keep it flirring about, and as the fcum or filth rifes take it off very clean, then put it in your can, and let it Hand till it is cold before you ufe it, then break it with your whifk by degrees, with about ten gallons of the wine, and apply it to the pipe, work it with the paddle an hour, then put a quart of ftum-forcing to it, which will unite their bodies, and make it fine and bright, jTo make Stum. TAKE a five-gallon calk that has been well foaked in water, fet it to drain, then take a pound of roll brimftone and melt it in a ladle, put as many rags to it as will fuck up the melted brim- vftone, burn all thofe rags in the calk, cover the bung-hole, but let it have a little air fo that it will keep burning; when it is burned out, put to it three gallons of the ftrongeli cyder, and one ounce of common allum pounded, mix it with the cyder in the calk, and roll it about five or fix times a-day for ten days; then take out the bung, and hang the remainder of the rags on a wire in the calk, as near the cyder as polfible, and fet them on the fire as before; when it is burnt out, bung the calk clofe, and roll it well about three or four times a-day for two days, then let it Hand feven or eight days, and this liquor will be fo ftrong as to affedl: your eyes by looking at it. When you force a pipe of wine, take a quart53° THE EXPERIENCED of this liquor, beat half an ounce of ifinglafs, and pull it in fmall pieces, whifk it together, and it will diffolve in four or five hours, break the jelly with your whiik, add a pound of ala- bafter to it, and difiolve it in a little of the wine, then put it in the pipe and bung it clofe up, * and in a day’s time it will be fine and bright. To refine Malt Liquor. TO cure a hogfhead of four ale : Take two ' ounces of ifinglafs, diffolve it in two quarts of new ale, and let it all night by the fire, then take two pounds of coarfe brown fugar, and boil it in a quart of new wort a quarter of an hour, then put it into a pail, with two gallons of new ale out of the kear, whiik the above ingredients very well for an hour or more, till it be all of a white froth, beat very fine one pound of plafter of Paris, and put it into your calk, with the fermentation, and whiff: it very well for half an hour in your call: with a ftrong hand, until you have brought all the filth and fediments from the bottom of your calk, and it will look white; if your calk be not full, fill it up with new ale, and the fermentation will have this good effect; the acid part of the ale will rife to the top im- mediately, and iffue out at the bung-hole; but if the calk be not full, the part that fhould fly out will continue in, and weaken the body of the ale; be fure you do not fail filling up your calk four or five times a-day until it has done work- ing, and all the lournefs or white muddy part is gone; and when it begins to look like new tun-ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 331 sied ale, put in a large handful of lpent hops, clofe it up, and let it Hand fix weeks; if it be not fine, and cream like bottled ale, let it Hand a month longer, and it will drink brifk like bot- tled ale; this is an excellent method, and 1 have ufed it to ale that has been both white and lour, and never found it to fail. If you have any malt that you fufped: is not good, fave out two gal- lons of wort, and a few hours before you want it add to it half a pint of barm, and when you have tunned your drink into the barrel, and it hath quite done working, make the above fer- mentation, and when you have put it in the bar- rel whifk it very well for half an hour, and it will fet your ale on working afrefh, and when the two gallons are worked quite over, keep fill- ing up your barrel with it four or five times a-day, and let it work four or five days, when it has done working clofe it up: if the malt has got any bad fmack or tafte, or be of a fluid na- ture, this will take it off. To make Sack Mead. TO every gallon of water add four pounds of honey, boil it three quarters of an hour, and fcum it as before; to each gallon add half an ounce of hops, then boil it half an hour, and let it ftand till the next day, then put it in your cafk, and to thirteen gallons of the above liquor add a quart of brandy or fack, let it be lightly clofed till the fermentation is quite done, then make it up very clofe; if it be a large cafk let it Hand a year before you bottle it. U u 2 To332 THE EXPERIENCED ' To make Cowslip Mead. TO fifteen gallons of water put thirty pounds of honey, boil it till one gallon is wafted, fcum it, then take it off the fire, have ready fixteen lemons cut in halves, take a gallon of the liquor, and put it to the lemons, put the reft of the liquor into a tub, with feven pecks of cowflips, and let them ftand all night, then put in the liquor with the lemons, eight fpoonfuls of new yeft, and a handful of fweet-briar, ftir them all well together, and let it work three or four days, then ftrain it, and put it in your cafk, and in fix months time you may bottle it. To make Walnut Mead. TO every gallon of water put three pounds and a half of honey, boil them together three quarters of an hour; to every gallon of liquor put about two dozen of walnut leaves, pour your liquor boiling hot upon them, let them ftand all night, then take the leaves out and put in a fpoonful of yeft, and let it work two or three days, then make it up, let it ftand three months, and then bottle it. To make Ozyat. BLANCH a pound of fvveet almonds, and the fame of bitter, beat them very fine, with fix fpoonfuls of orange-flower water, take three ounces of the four cold feeds, if you beat the almonds ; but if you do not beat them, you muft take fix ounces of the four cold feeds, then, with two quarts of fpring water, rub your pounded feeds i,ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 333 feeds and almonds fix times through a napkin, then add four pounds of treble-refined lugar, boil it to a thin fyrup, fkim it well, and when it is cold bottle it. To make Ozyat a fecond Way. BOIL two quarts of milk with a Hick of cinnamon in it, let it ftand to be quite cold, then blanch two ounces of the beft fweet al- monds and about ten or twelve bitter almonds, pound them together in a marble mortar with a little rofe-water, then mix them well with the milk, fweeten it to your tafte, and give it one boil, ftrain it through a very fine lieve till it is quite fmooth and free from almonds. Send it lip in ozyat glafles with handles, and quite cold ; take great care you do not boil it too much, and that the almonds do not turn to oil. Lemonade for the fane Ufe. TO one quart of boiled water add the juice of fix lemons, rub the rinds of the lemons with loaf fugar to your own tafte; when the water is near cold mix the juice and fugar with it, then bottle it for ufe. To make Lemonade a fecond Way. PARE fix or eight large lemons, put the peels into a pint of water, give them a boil, when cold fqueeze your lemons into it, and put in one pound of fugar, then ftrain it through a lawn fteve to as much water as will make it pleafant;334 THE EXPERIENCED pleaiant; juft before you fend it up put in a pint ftkfTft Wme’ and the Juice °f an oranse ify°« To make Lemonade a third Way. TAKE the linds of fix lemons pared very thin, and put them in a pan, with about twelve ounces of fugar, and a quart of pump water made not too hot; let it ftand a night, then Iqueeze the juice of your lemons into it, with one fpoonful of orange-flower water, and run it through a bag till it looks clear. To make a rich Acid for Punch. BAKE red currants, and ftrain them as you • ^or jellies, take a gallon of the juice, put to it two quarts of new milk, crufh pearl goofe-> beiries when full ripe, and'ftrain them through a coarfe cloth, add two quarts of the juice, and three pounds of double-refined fugar, three quarts of rum and two of brandy, one ounce of ifinglafs diflolved in part of the liquor, mix it all up to- gether, and put it into a little calk; let it ftand fix weeks, and then bottle it for ufe. It will keep many years, and fave much fruit. To make Orange Juice to keep. SQUEEZE your oranges into a pan, then ftrain them through a very coarfe fieve, after that through a very fine fieve ; meafure your juice, and to every pint put a pound of fine loaf fugar, let it ftand together all night covered over.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 335 over, then take off the fcum, ftir it well in the pan, and put it in dry pint bottles ; put in a fpoonful of brandy, after they are filled tie it over the cork with leather; if you do not choofe to put fpirits in, a little oil will do, to be taken off clean before you ufe it; keep it in a dry place, and it will be good for two years. The pulp that will be in your fine fieve will make marmalade. To make Shrub. TAKE a gallon of new milk, put to it two quarts of red wine, pare fix lemons and four Seville oranges very thin, put in the rinds, and the juice of twelve of each fort, two gallons of rum and one of brandy, let it Hand twenty-four hours, add to it two pounds of double-refined fugar, and ftir it well together, then put it in a jug, cover it clofe up, and let it ftand a fortnight, then run it through a jelly-bag, and bottle it for ufe. To make Sherbet. TAKE nine Seville oranges and three lemons, grate off the yellow rinds, and put the rafpings into a gallon of water, and three pounds of double-refined fugar, and boil it to a candy height, then take it off the fire, and put in the juice the pulp of the above, and keep ftirring it until it is almoft cold, then put it in a pot for ufe. To make fine Sherbet a fiecond Way. PARE four large lemons, and boil the peels in fix quarts of water and a fittle ginger cut fine, boil them a quarter of an hour, then add to it three336 THE experienced three pounds of fugar, and when it is cold put m the juice ©f the lemons and ftrain it, and it is fit for ufc. To make She Abet a third Way. TAKE twelve quarts of water and fix pounds of Malaga railins, flice fix lemons ir\to it, with one pound of fixpenny fugar, put them all to- gether into an earthen pan, let it ftand three days, ftirring it three times a-day, then take them out, and let them drain in a flannel bag, then bottle it; do not fill the bottles too full, left they burft. It will be fit to drink in about a fortnight. To make Raspberry Brandy. GATI-IER the rafpberries when the fun is hot upon them, and as loon as ever you have got them, to every five quarts of rafpberries put one quart of the bell: brandy, boil a quart of water five minutes with a pound of double-refined fu- gar in it, and pour it boiling hot on the ber- ries, let it ftand all night, then add nine quarts more brandy, ftir it about very well, put it in a ftone bottle, and let it ftand a month or fix' weeks; when fine, bottle it. To make Black Cherry Brandy. TAKE out the ftones of eight pounds of black cherries, and put on them a gallon of the beft brandy, bruife the ftones in a mortar, then put them in your brandy, cover them up clofe, and letENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 337 let them ftand a month or fix weeks, then pour it clear from the fecliments, and bottle it. To make Orange Brandy. PARE e'ight oranges very thin, and fteep the peels in a quart of brandy forty-eight hours in a dole pitcher, then take three pints of water and three quarters of a pound of loaf fugar, boil it until it is reduced to half the quantity, then let it ftand till it is cold, then mix it with the brandy; let it ftand fourteen days, and then bottle it* To make Almond Shrub. TAKE three gallons of rum or brandy, three quarts of orange juice, the peels of three lemons, three pounds of loaf fugar, then take four ounces of bitter almonds, blanch and beat them fine, mix them in a pint of milk, then mix them all well together, let it ftand an hour to curdle, run it through a flannel bag feveral times till it is clear, then bottle it for ufe. To make Currant Shrub. PICK your currants clean from the ftalks when they are full ripe, and put twenty-four pounds into a pitcher, with two pounds of tingle- refined fugar, clofe the jug well up, and put it into a pan of boiling water till they are loft, then ftrain them through a jelly-bag, and to every quart of juice put one quart of brandy, a pint of red wine, one quart of new milk, a pound of double-refined fugar, and the whites oi two eggs well beat, mix them all together, X x and3 3 8 THE EXPERIENCED and caver them clofe up two days, then run it through a jelly-bag, and bottle it for ufe. To make Walnut Catchup. TAKE green walnuts before the lhell is, formed, and grind them in a crab mill, or pound them in a marble mortar, fqueeze out the juice through a- coarfe cloth, put to every gallon of juice one pound of anchovies, one pound of bay ialt, four ounces of Jamaica pepper, v two of long, and two of black pepper, of mace, cloves, and ginger, each one ounce, and a flick of horfe- radifh; boil all together till reduced to half the quantity, put it in a pot, and when cold bottle it; it will be ready in three months. To make Walnut Catchup another Way. *PUT your walnuts in jars, cover them with cold ftrong ale alegar, tie them clofe for twelve months, then take the walnuts out from the alegar and put to every gallon of the liquor d two heads of garliek, half a pound of ancho- vies, one quart of red wine, onei ounce of mace, one of cloves, one of long, one of black, and one of Jamaica pepper, with one of ginger, boil them all in the liquor till it is reduced to half the quantity, the next day bottle it for ufe; k is good in fifh faiice, or hewed beef. In my opinion it is an excellent catchup, for the longer it is kept the better it is. I have kept it five years, and it was much better than when firft uiadcp— ‘N. B, You may land how to pickle the vENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 339 the walnuts you have taken out, amongft the .other pickles. , To make Mum Catchup. TO a quart of old mum put four ounces of anchovies, of mace and nutmegs diced one ounce, of cloves and black pepper half an ounce, boil it till it is reduced one third; when cold bottle it for ufe. To make a Catchup to keep /even Tears. TAKE two quarts of the oldeft ftrong beer you can get, put to it one quart of red ydne, three quarters of a pound of anchovies, three i ounces of fhalots peeled, half an ounce of mace, the fame of nutmegs ; a quarter of an ounce of cloves, three large racejS of ginger put in dices, boil all together over a moderate fire till one third is wafted, the next day bottle it for ufe ; it will carry to the Eaft-Indies. To make Mushroom Catpiiup. TAKE the full-grown flaps of mufhrooms, crufh them with your hands, throw a handful of fait into every peck of mudirooms, and let them ftand all night, then put them into ftew-pans, and fet them in a quick oven for twelve hours, and ftrain them through a hair fieve; to every gallon of liquor put of cloves, Jamaica, black pepper, and ginger, one ounce each, and half a pound of commonTalt, fet it on a flow fire, and let it boil till half the liquor is wafted away; then put it in a clean pot, when cold bottle it for ufe. X X 2 _ To34° THE EXPERIENCED To make Mushroom Powder. *1 -ARE tlic thickeft large buttons you can gec^ peel them, cut of! the root end, but do not wafli them, Ipiead them feparately on pewter difhes, and let them in a flow oven to dry, let the liquor diy up into the mufh rooms; it makes the powder ftronger, and let them continue in the oven till you find they will powder, then beat them in a marble moiiai, and lift them through a fine heve, with a little Chyan pepper, and pounded mace ; bottle it, and keep it in a dry clofet. To make Tarragon Vinegar. TAKE tarragon juft as it is going into bloom, ftrip off the leaves, and to every pound of leaves put a gallon of ftrong white wine vinegar into a ftonejug to ferment for a fortnight, then run it through a flannel bag; to every four gallons of vinegar put half an ounce of ifmglafs diflolved in cyder, mix it well with vinegar, then put it into large bottles, and let it ftand one month to line, then rack it off, and put it into pint bot«= ties for ufe. To make Elder Flower Vinegar. TO every peck of the peeps of elder-flowers put two gallons of ftrong ale alegar ; and fet it in the fun in a ftone jug for a fortnight, then filter it through a flannel bag; when you bottle it, put it in lmall bottles, it keeps the flavour much better than large ones. Be careful you do not chop any ftalks among the peeps. It makesENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 341 makes a pretty mixture on a lide-table, with tarragon vinegar, lemon pickle, &c. To make Gooseberry Vinegar. TAKE the ripeft goofeberries you can get, crulh them with your hands in a tub, to every peck of goofeberries put two gallons of water, mix them well together, and let them work for three weeks, ftir them up three or four times a-day, then ftrain the liquor through a hair fieve, and put to every gallon a pound of brown fugar, 4 pound of treacle, a fpoonful of frefh barm, and let it work three or four days in the fame tub well wafhed, run it into iron-hooped barrels, and let it hand twelve months, then draw it into bottles for ufe.—This far exceeds any white wine vinegar. To make Sugar Vinegar. PUT nine pounds of brown fugar to every .fix gallons of water, boil it for a quarter of an hour, then put it into a tub luke-warm, put to it a pint of new barm, let it work for four or five days, ftir it up three or four times a-day, then tun it into a clean barrel iron-hooped, and fet it full in the fun; if you make it in February it will be fit for ufe in Auguft; you may ufe it for moft forts of pickles except mufhrooms and walnuts. CHAP,34* THE EXPERIENCED I CHAP. XVI. Obfcrvatiojis on Pickling. PICKLING is a very iifeful thing in a far mily, but is often ill managed, or at lead: made to pleafe the eye by pernicious things., which is the only thing that ought to be avoided, for nothing is more common than to green pickles in a brafs pan for the fake of having them a good green, when at the fame time they will green as well by heating the liquor, and keeping them in a proper heat upon the hearth, without the help of brafs, or verdegrile of any kind, for it is poifon to a great degree, and no- thing ought to be avoided more than ufing brafs or copper that is not well tinned; but the beft way, and the only caution 1 can give, is to be very particular in keeping the pickles from any thing of that kind, and follow ftridtly the direc- p i tioji of your receipts, as you will find receipts ji1 < for any kind of pickles, without being put in fait and water at all, and greened only by pour- ing ycur vinegar hot upon them, and it will keep them a long time. To pickle Cucumbers. I la TAKE the fmalleft cucumbers you can get, j (( and as free from fpots as poiTible, put them into a ftrong fait and water for nine or ten days, or 0 till they are quite yellow, and ftir them twice a~day at leaf!, or they will fcum over and grow foil; when they are thoroughly yellow, pour the j waterENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 343 water from them, and cover them with plenty of vine leaves, fet your water over the fire, when it boils pour it upon them, and fet them on the hearth to keep warm; when the water grows cool, make it boiling hot again, and pour it upon them, keep doing fo till you fee they are a fine green, which will be in four or five times; be lure you keep them well covered with vine leaves, a cloth and difh over the top to keep in the fleam, it helps to green them fooner; when they are greened, put them into a hair fieve to drain, then make a pickle for them; to every two quarts of white wine vinegar put half an ounce of mace, and ten or twelve cloves, one : ounce of ginger cut in dices, the fame of black pepper, and a handful of fait, boil them all to- gether five minutes, then pour it hot upon your pickles, and tie them down with a bladder for life.-—N. B. You may pickle them with ale ale- gar, or diddled vinegar; if you ufe vinegar, it mud not be boiled; you may add three or four cloves of garlick or fhalots, they are very good for keeping the pickle from caning. To pickle Cucumbers a fccond Way. GATHER your cucumbers on a dry day, and put them into a narrow-topped pitcher, put to them a head of garlick, a few white mudard- ieeds, and a few blades of mace, half an ounce of black pepper, the fame of long pepper and ginger, and a good handful of fait into your vinegar; pour it upon your cucumbers boiling hot, fet them by the fire, and keep them warm for344 THE EXPERIENCED foi thiee days, and boil your alegar once every day; keep them cloie covered till they are a good green, and then tie them down with a lea- ther, and keep them for ufe. To pickle Cucumbers in Slices. GET your cucumbers large, before the feeds .<u c lipe, dice them a quarter of an inch thick, then lay them on a hair iieve, and betwixt every lay put a fhalot or two, throw on a little fait, let them ftand four or five hours to drain, then put them in a ftone jar, take as much ftrong ale ale- gai as will cover them, boil it five minutes, with a blade or two of mace, a few white pep- per-corns, a little ginger diced, and fome horfe- radifh lciaped, then pour it boiling hot upon your cucumbers, let them ftand till they are cold, do fo for three times more; let it grow cold betwixt every time, then tie them down with a bladder for ufe. To pickle Mangoes'. 1AKE the larged: cucumbers you can get* before they are too ripe, or yellow at the ends, then cut a piece out of the fide, and take out the feeds with an apple-feraper, or a tea-fpoon, and put them in a very ftrong fait and water for eight or nine days, or till they are very yel- low, ftir them well two or three times each day, then put them into a brafs pan, with a large quantity of vine leaves both under and over them, beat a little roach allum very fine, and putENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 345 put it in the fait and water that they came out of, pour it upon your cucumbers, and let it upon, a very flow lire for four or five hours, till they are a pretty green, then take them out, and drain them on a hair fieve; when they are cold, put to them a little horfe-radifh, then muftard-feed, two or three heads of garlick, a few pepper- corns, flice a few green cucumbers in lmall pieces, then horfe-radifh. and the fame as before mentioned, tiil you have filled them, then take the piece you cut out, and lew it on with a large needle and thread, and do all the reft the fairm way, have ready }Our pickle; to every gallon of alegar put one ounce of mace, the lame of cloves, two ounces of ginger fliced, the fame of long pepper, black pepper, Jamaica pepper, three ounces of muftard-feed tied up in a bag, four ounces of. garlick, and a ftick of horfe- radifh cut in flices, boil them five minutes in the alegar, then pour it upon your pickles, tig) them down, and keep them for ule., To pickle Codlins, * * • f GET your codlins when they are the fize of a large French walnut, put a good deal of vine leaves in the bottom of a brafs pari, then put in your codlins, cover them very well with vine leaves, and fet them over a very flow fire till you can peel the fkins off, then take them carefully up in a hair fieve, and peel them with a pen- knife, and put them into the lame pan again with the vine leaves and water as before, cover them clofe, and fet them over a flow fire till they Y y are54$ the experienced are a fine green, then drain them through a hair "eve, and when they are cold put them into ehfhlled vinegar, pour a little meat oil on the top, and tie them down with a bladder. To pickle Kidney-Beans. YjEi your beans when they are young and finall, then put them into a ftrong fait and w^ater ror three days, ftir them up two or -three times each day, then put them into a brafs pan, with vine leaves both under and over them, pour on the fame water as they came out of, cover them clofe, and fet them over a very flow fire till they aie a fine gieen, then put them into a hair fieve to drain, and make a pickle for them of white vdne vinegar, or fine ale alegar, boil it five or fix minutes, with a little mace, Jamaica pepper, long pepper, and a race or two*of gin- ger Diced, then pour it hot upon the kidney- beans, and tie them down with a bladder. To pickle Samphire. WASH your famphire very well in four fmaU beer, then put it into a large brafs pan, diffolve a little bay fait, and twice the quantity of com- mon fait in four beer, then fill up your pan with it, cover it clofe, and let it over a Dow fire till it is a fine green, then drain it through a fieve, and put it into jars, boil as much fugar vinegar cr white wine vinegar, with a race or two of ginger, and a few pepper-corns, as will cover it; . then pour it hot upon your famphire, and tie it well down.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 347 To pickle Walnuts Black. GATHER your walnuts when the fun is hot upon them, and before the fhell is hard, which you may know by running a pin into them, then put them in a ftrong fait and water for nine days, and ftir them twice a-day, and change the fait and water every three days, then put them in a hair lleve, and let them hand in the air till they turn black; then put them into ftrong ftone jars, and pour boiling alegar over them, cover them up, and let them Hand till they are cold, then boil the alegar three times more, and let it 'Hand tdl it is cold betwixt every time; tie them down with paper and a bladder over them, and let them Hand two months, then take them out of the alegar, and make a pickle for them; to every two quarts of alegar put half an ounce of mace, the fame of cloves, one ounce of black pepper, the fame ot Jamaica pepper, ginger, and long pepper, and two ounces of common fait, boil it ten minutes, and pour it hot upon your walnuts, and tie them down with a bladder and paper over it. A fccond Way to pickle Walnuts Black, WHEN you have got 'your walnuts as before, put them into a Hrong cold alegar, with a good deal of fait in it, let them Hand three months, then pour off the alegar, and boil it with a little more fait in it, then pour it upon your wal- nuts, and let them Hand till they are cold; make it hot again, and pour it upon your walnuts, and Y y 2 do34$ THE EXPERIENCED To do fo till they are black, then put them into a hair IIeve, and make a pickle for them the fame way as above: keep them in ftrong ftone jars, and they will be fit for ufe in a month or fix iveeks time. To pickle Walnuts an Olive Colour. GATHER your walnuts, and put them in a ftrong ale alegar, and tie them down with a bladder and a paper over it, to keep out the air, and let them ftand twelve months, then take them out or that alegar, and make a pickle for them of ftrong alegar, and to every quart put half an ounce or Jamaica pepper, the fame of long peppei, a quarter of an ounce of mace, the lame of cloves, one head of garlick, and a little fait, boil them all together five or fix minutes, then pour it upon your walnuts; when it is cold heat it again three times, then tie them down with a bladder, and paper over it; they will keep feveral years, without either turning colour or growing foft, if your alegar be good.—N. B. You may make exceeding good catchup of the ale- gar that comes from the walnuts, by adding a pound of anchovies, one ounce of cloves, the fame oi long and black pepper, one head of gailick, and halt a pound of common fait to every gallon of alegar; boil it till it is half reduced away, and feum it very well, then bot- tle it for ufe, and it will keep a long time.ENGLISH HOUSE KEEPER. 349 To pickle Walnuts. TAKE the large# French walnuts, pare them till you can lee the white appeal, but take great care you do not cut it too deep, it will make them full of holes, put them into fait and water as you pare them, or they will turn black, when you have pared them all, have ready a fauce-pan. well tinned, full of boiling water, with a little fait, then put in your walnuts, and let them, boil five minutes very quick, then take them out, and fpread them betwixt two clean cloths, when they are cold put them into wide-mouthed bottles, and fill them up with diftilled vinegar, and put a blade or two of mace, and a large tea- fpoonful of eating oil into every bottle ; the next day cork them well, and keep them in a dry place. To pickle Walnuts Green. TAKE the large double or French walnuts, before the fhells are hard, wrap them lingly in vine leaves, put a lew vine leaves in the bottom of your jar, fill it near full with your walnuts, take care that they do not touch one another, put a good many leaves over them, then fill your jar with good alegar, cover them clofe, that the air cannot get in, let them Hand for three weeks, then pour the alegar from them, put frefh leaves in the bottom of another jar, take out your walnuts, and wrap them feparately in frefh leaves as quick as poffibly you can, put them into your jar with a good many leaves over them,"5° the experienced then fill It with white wine, vinegar, let them Hand three weeks, pour off your vinegar, and wrap them as before with frefh leaves at the bottom and top of your jar, take frefh white wme vinegar, put fait in it till it will bear an egg, add to it mace, cloves,,nutmeg, and gar- nc v if you choofe it, boil it about eight minutes, theu pour it on your walnuts, tie them clofe with paper and a bladder, and fet them by for iiie. Be fure to keep them always covered : when you take any out for ufe, what is left muft not be put in again, but have ready a frefh jar, with boiled vinegar and fait, to put them in. ' * To pickle Barberries. . GET y°ur barberries before they are too ripe, pick out the leaves and dead ftalks, then put them into jars, with a large quantity of ftrong fait and water, and tie them down with a blad-p der. A7. B. When you fee your barberries feum oyer put them in frefh fait and water, they. need no vinegar, their own fharpnefs is fufficient enough to keep them. To pickle Parsley Green. TAKE a large quantity of curled parfleY, make a ftrong fait and water to bear an egg, put in your parfley, let it ftand a week, then take it out to drain, make a frefh fait and water as before, let it ftand another week, then drain it very well, put it in fpring water, and change it every day for three days, and feald it in hard water till it becomes green, take it out and drain it quite dry, bod a quart of diftilled vinegar a ' fewENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 35* To few minutes, with two or three blades of mace, a nutmeg fliced, and a fhalot or two; when it is quite cold pour it on your parfley, with two s or three dices of horfe-radifh, and keep it for ufe. To pickle Nasturtians. GATHER the nafturtian berries foon after the bloffoms are gone off, put them in cold fait and water, change the water once a-day for three days, make your pickle of white wine vinegar, mace, nutmeg fliced, pepper-corns, fait, fha- lots, and horfe-radifh; it requires to be made pretty ftrong, as your pickle is not to be boiled; when you have drained them, put them into a jar, and pour the pickle over them. To pickle Radish Pods. GATHER your radifh pods when they are quite young, and put them in fait and water * all night, then boil the fait and water they were laid in, and pour it upon your pods, and covqf your jars clofe to keep in the fleam ; when it grows cold make it boiling hot, and pour it on again; keep doing fo till your pods are quite green, then put them on a lieve to drain, and make a pickle for them of _ white wine vinegar, with a little mace, ginger, long pepper, and horfe radifh, pour it boiling hot upon your pods, when it is almoft cold, make your vinegar twice hot as before, and pour it upon them, and tie them down with a bladder.3$2 THE EXPERIENCE!? To pickle Elder Shoots. s GATHER your elder fhoots when they are the thickneis Oi a pipe-fhahk, put them into fait and water all night, then put them into' flone jars in layers, and betwixt £very layer fhew a little muftard-feed and fcraped horfe- radifh, a few flialots, a little white beet root, and cauliflowers cut in fmall pieces, then pour boiling alegar upon it, and fcald it three times ad it will be like piccalillo, or Indian pickle ; tie a leather over it and keep it in a dry place. i To pickle Elder Buds. ; * V GET your elder buds when they are the fize of hop buds, and put them into a ftrong fait and water for nine days, and dir them two or three times a-day, then put them into a brads pan, cover them with vine leaves, and pour the w^ter on them that they came out of, and fet them over a flow fire till they are quite green, then make a pickle for them of alegar, a little mace, a few fhalots, and fome ginger diced, boil them two or three minutes, and pour it upon your buds; tie them down, and keep them in a dry place for ufe. To pickle Beet Roots. TAKE red beet roots and boil them till they are tender, then take the duns off, and cut them in dices, and gimp them in the fhape of wheels, flowers, or what form you pleafe, and put them into a jar, then take as much' vinegar as youENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 353 think will cover them, and boil it with a little mace, a race of ginger lliced, and a few Dices of horfe-radilh, pour it hot upon your roots,) and tie them down. They are a very pretty garnilh for made difhes. To pickle Cauliflowers, TAKE the clofell and whiteft cauliflowers you can get, and pull them in bunches, and fpread them on an earthen difh, and lay fait all over them, let them fland for three days to faring out all the water, then put them ill earthen jars, and pour boiling fait and water upon them, and let them ftand all night, then drain them on a hair fieve, and put them into glals jars, and fill up your jars with diftilled vinegar, and tie them clofe down with leather. A fecond Way to pickle Cauliflowers. $ PULL your cauliflowers in bunches as be- fore, and give them juft a feald in fait and water, fpread them on a cloth, and fprinkle a little fait over them, and throw another cloth upon them till they are drained, then lay them on ft eves, and dry them in the fun till they are quite dry like feraps of leather, put them into jars about half full, and pour hot vinegar (with fpice boiled in it to your tafte) upon them; tie them down with a bladder and a leather quite clofe.—N. B. White cabbage is done the fame way. % z: Tor 354 THE EXPERIENCED To pickle Red Cabbage. GET the fineft and clofeft red cabbage you can, and cut it as thin as poflible, then take home cold ale alegar, and put to it two or three blades of mace, a few white pepper-corns, and make it pretty thick with fait, put your cabbage into the alegar as you cut it; tie it clofe dowrn with a bladder, and a paper over it, and it will be fit for ufe in a day or twro. To pickle Red Cabbage a fecond Way. CUT the cabbage as before, and throw fome fait upon it, and let it lie two or three days, till it grows a fine purple, then drain it from the fait, and put it into a pan with beer alegar, and fpice to your liking, and give it a feald; when it is cold, put- it into your jars, and tie it clofe up. To pickle Grapes. GET your grapes when they are pretty large, but not too ripe, then put a layer into a Rone jar, then a layer of vine leaves, then grapes and vine leaves as before, till your jar is full; then- take two quarts of water, half a pound of bay fait, the fame of common fait, boil it half an hour, fkim it well, and take it off to fettle, when it is milk warm pour the clean liquor upon the grapes, and lay a good deal of vine leaves upon the top, and cover it clofe up with a cloth, and let it upon the hearth for two days, then take your grapes out of the jar, and lay them upon a cloth to drain, and cover them with a flannel till they are quite dry ; then lay them /ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 35* them in flat-bottomed ftone jars, in layers, and put frefh vine leaves betwixt every layer, and a large handful on the top of the grapes, then boi a quart of hard water and one pound of hxv fugar a quarter of an hour, fkim it well, an put to it three blades of mace, a large nutmeg diced, and two quarts of white wine vinegai, give them all a boil together, then take it off, and when it is quite cold pour it upon yom grapes, and cover them very well with it; put a bladder upon the top, and tie a leather ovei it, and keep them in a dry place for ufe.—tV. B. hou may pickle them in cold diddled vinegar. To pickle young Artichokes. GET your artichokes as foon as they are formed, and boil them in a ftrong lalt and water for two or three minutes, and lay them upon a hair fleve to drain, when they are cold put them into narrow-topped jars, then take as much white wine vinegar as will cover youi^ar- tichokes, boil with it a blade or two of mace, a few llices of ginger, and a nutmeg cut thin, pour it on hot, and tie them down. i To pickle Mushrooms. GATHER the fmalleft mufhrooms you can get, and put them into fpring water, then rub them with a piece of new flannel dipped in fait, and throw them into cold fpring water as you do them to keep their colour, then put them into a well-tinned fauce-pan, and throw a hand- ful of fait over them, cover them clofe, and let Z z 2 them3S° THE EXPERIENCED tl.em over the fire four or five minutes, or til! you fee they are thoroughly hot, and the liquor !S drawn 0llt °f *em, then lay them between two clean cloths till they are cold, then put $!!" T“ S'afS bott,es- and fiH th™ up with tumlled vinegar, and put a blade or two of mace and a tea-lpoonful of eating oil in every bot- t,e, cork them dole up, and fet them in a cool p.ace. N. B. If you have not any diftilled vinegar, you may ufe white wine vinegar, or aie alegar will do, but it muft be boiled with a nitle mace, fait, and a few dices of ginger, it miift be cold before you pour it on your mufh- r™;,lf^our vinegar or alegar be too fharp it will lorten your mufhrooms, neither will they keep fo long, nor be fo white. 7 To pickle Mushrooms Brown, 1 AKrL a quart of large mufhroom buttons, wafli them in alegar with a flannel, take three anchovies and chop them fmall, a few blades of jnace, a little pepper and ginger, a fpoonful of ialt, and three cloves of fhalots, put them into a lauce-pan, with as much alegar as will half cover them, fet them on the fire, and let them itew till they flirink pretty much; when cold ,put them in fmall bottles, with the alegar poured^ upon them, cork and tie them up clofe. . , P11S Plckle will make, a great addition m brown fauce. . 'To pickle Onions. PnEL the fmallefl: onions you can get, and put them into fait and water for niife days, and changeENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 357 change the water every clay, then put them into jars, and pour frefh boiling fait and water over them, let them ftand clofe covered until they are cold; then make fome more fait and water, and pour it boiling hot upon them, and when it is cold put your onions into a hair fieve to drain, then put them into wide-mouthed bot- tles, and fill them up with diftilled vinegar, and put into every bottle a flice or two of ginger, one blade of mace, and a large tea-fpoonful of eating oil; it will keep the onions white ; then cork them well up.—N. B. If you like the tafte of a bay leaf, put one or two into every bottle, and as much bay fait as will lie on a fixpence. To make Indian Pickle, or Piccalillo. GET a white cabbage, one cauliflower, a few fmall cucumbers, radifh-pods, kidney-beans, and a little beet-root, or any other thing you commonly pickle; then put them on a hair fieve, and throw a large handful of fait over them, and fet them in the fun-fhme, or before the fire, for three days to dry; when all the water is run out of them, put them into a large earthen pot in layers, and betwixt every layer put a handful of brown muftard-feed, then take as much ale alegar as you think will cover it, and to every four quarts of alegar put an ounce of turmerick, boil them together, and pour it hot upon your pickle, and let it ftand twelve days upon the hearth, or till the pickles are all of a bright yellow colour, and molt of the ale- gar fucked up; then take two quarts of ftrong alq$5% the experienced ale alegar, one ounce of mace, the fame of white pepper, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, the lame of long pepper and nutmeg; beat them all together, and boil them ten minutes in your alegar, then pour it upon your pickles with four ounces of garlick peeled; tie it clofe down, and keep it for ufe,—N. B. You may put in frelh pickles, as the thing comes in feafon, and keep them covered with vinegar, &c. A Pickle in Imitation of Indian Bamboe. TAKE the young {hoots of elder, about the beginning or middle of May, take the middle- of the ftalk, the top is not worth doing, peel oh the out rind, and lay them in a flrong brine of fait and beer one night, dry them in a cloth Engle, in the mean-time make a pickle of half goofeberry vinegar and half ale alegar; to every quart of pickle put one ounce of long pepper, one ounce of fliced ginger, a few corns of Jamaica pepper, a little mace, boil it, and pour it upon the Eioots, and flop the jar clofe up, and fet it by the fire twenty-four hours, If tiring it very often. CHAP. XVII. Obfervations on keeping Garden-Stuff and Fruit. nn H E art of keeping garden - fluff is to Jf_ keep it in dry places, for damp will not only make them mould, and give again, but takeENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. j/c/ take off the flavour, fo it will likewife fpoil any kind of bottled fruit, and fet them on working ; the beft caution I can give, is' to keep them as dry as poflible, but not warm, and when you boil any dried fluff have plenty of water, and follow ftriddy the directions of your receipts. To keep Green Peas. SHELL any quantity of green peas, and juft give them a boil in as much fpring water as will cover them, then put them in a lieve to drain : pound the pods with a little of the water that the peas were boiled in, and ftrain what juice you can from them, and boil it a quarter of an hour, with a little fait, and as much of the water as you think will cover the peas and the bottles, All your bottles with peas, and pour in your water, when cold put rendered luet over, and tie them down dole with a blad- der and leather over it, and keep your bottle in a dry place. To keep Green Peas another Way. GATHER your peas in the afternoon, on a dry day ; fhell them, and put them into dry clean bottles, cork them clofe, and tie them over with a bladder; keep them in a cool dry place as before. To keep French Beans. LET your beans be gathered quite dry, and not too old, lay a layer of lalt in the bottom of an earthen jar, then a layer of beans, then fair, then3>6<* THE EXPERIENCED then beans, till you have filled your jar; let the ialt be at the top, tie a piece of leather over them, and lay a flag on the top, and fet them in a dry cellar for ufe. To keep French Beans a fecond Way. MAKE a ftrong fait and water that will bear an e8tb and when it boils put in your French beans for five or fix minutes, then lay them on a fieve, and put to your fait and' water a little bay lalt, and boil it ten minutes, fkim it well, and pour it into an earthen jar to cool and fettle, put your.French beans into narrow-topped jars, and pour your clean liquor upon them ; tie them dole down.that no air can get in, and keep them, in a dry place.—N. B. Steep them in plenty of fpring water the night before you ufe them, and boil them in hard water. To keep Mushrooms to eat likefreJJj ones. WASH large buttons as you would for Hew- ing, lay them on fieves, with the ftalk up- wards, throw over them fome fait to fetch out the water; when they are drained put them in a pot, and fet them in a cool oven for an hour, then take them carefully out, and lay them to cool and drain ; boil the liquor that comes out of them with a blade or two of mace, and boil it half away ; put your mufhrooms into a clean jar well dried, and when the liquor is cold cover your mufhrooms in the jar with it,- and pour ever it rendered fuet, tie a bladder over it, fet them in a dry clofet, and they WilBkeep veryENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 36* well moft of the winter.—When you ufe them, take them out of the liquor, pour over them, boiling milk, and let them ftand an hour, then ifew them in the milk a quarter of an hour, thicken them with flour and a large quantity of butter, and be careful you do not oil it; then beat the yolks of two eggs with a litttle cream, and put it in, but do not let it boil after the eggs are in; lay untoafted fippets round the infide of the difh, and ferve them up; they will eat near as good as frefh-gathered mufhrooms; if they do not tafte ftrong enough, put in a little of the liquor: this is a valuable liquor, and it will give all made difhes a flavour like frefh mufhrooms* To keep Mushrooms' another Way* SCRAPE large flaps, peel them, take out the infide, and boil them in their own liquor and a little fait, then lay them in tins, and fet them in a cool oven, and repeat it till they are dry; put them in clean jars, tie them clofe down, and they will eat very good. To dry Artichoke Bottoms* PLUCK the artichokes from the ftalks juft before they come to their full growth, (it will draw out all the firings from the bottoms) and boil them fo that you can juft pull off the leaves, lay them on tins, and fet them in a cool oven, and repeat it till they are dry, which you may know by holding them up againft the light, and if you can fee through them they are dry A a a enough 5362 THE EXPERIENCED they enough; put them in paper bags, and hang them in a dry place. To bottle Damsons to eat as good as J'yeJlo o?ies. GET your damfons carefully when they are juft turned colour, and put them into wide- mouthed bottles, cork them up loofely, and let them ftand a fortnight, then look them over, and if you fee any of them mould or fpot, take them out, and eork the reft dole down ; fet the bottles in fand, and they will keep till fpring, and be as good as frefh ones. AfecoTid Way to bottle Damsons, ' TAKE your damfons before they are full ripe, and gather them when the dew is off, pick off the ftalks, and put them into dry bottles; do not fill your bottles over full, and cork them as- clofe as you would do ale, keep them in a cel- lar, and cover them over with land. 'To preferve Damsons u'hole. YOU liiuft take fome damfons and cut them in pieces, put them in a fkellet over the hre, with as much water as will cover them; whenENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 363 they are boiled, and the liquor pretty ftrong, ftrain it out; add for every pound of damfons, wiped clean, a pound of Engle-refined fugar, put the third part of your fugar into the liquor, let it over the fire, and when it fimmers put in the damfons; let them have one good boil, and take them off for half an hour, covered up dole; then let them 0.11 again, and let them fimmer over the fire after turning them; then take them out, and put them in a bafon, ftrew all the fugar that was left on them, and pour the hot liquor .over them; cover them up, and let them ftand till next day, then boil them up again till they are enough; take them up, and put them into pots ; boil the liquor till it jellies, pour it on them when it is almoft cold, and .paper them up. To bottle Gooseberries. PICK green walnut goofeberries, bottle them, and fill the bottles with fpring water up to the neck, cork them loofely, and let them in a cop- per of hot water till they are hot quite through, then take them out, and when they are cold, cork them dole, and tie a bladder over* and fiet them in a dry cool place.364 THE EXPERIENCED To bottle Gooseberries a fee on d Way, PUT one ounce of roach allum, beat fine into a large pan of boiling hard water, pick your goofeberries, and put a few in the bottom of a hair neve, and hold them in the boiling water till they turn white; then take out the iievc, and fpread the goofeberries betwixt two clean cloths, put more goofeberries in your fieve, and repeat it till you have done all your berries, put the water into a glaze4 pot till next day, then put yotir goofeberries into wide-mouthed bottles and pick out all the cracked and broken ones, pour your water clean out of the pot, and fill up your bottles with it; then put in the corks loofely, and let them ftand for a fortnight, and if they rife to the corks, draw them out, and let them ftand for two or three days un- corked, then cork them clofe, and they will keep two years. * ' • • /. To bottle Cranberries. GET your cranberrries when they are quite dry, put them into dry clean bottles, cork them up clofe, and put them in a dry cool place. To bottle Green Currants. GATHER your currants when the fun is hot upon them, ftrip them from the ftalks, and put them into glafs bottles, and cork them clofe, let them over head in dry fand, and they wilj keep till fpring.ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 365 To keep Grapes. CUT yur bunches of grapes with a joint of the vine to them, hang them up in a dry room, that the bunches do not touch one an- other, and the air pafs freely betwixt th'em, or they will grow mouldy and rot; they will keep till the latter end of January, or longer. N. B. The Frontiniac grape is the bell. CHAP. XVIII. 1Obfcrvations on Distilling. IF your ftill be a limbeck, when you fet it on fill the top with cold water, and make a lit- tle pafte of flour and water, and clofe the bot- tom of your ftill well with it, and take great care that your fire is not too hot to make it boil over, for that will weaken the ftrength of your water; you muft change the water on the top ot your ftill often, and never let it be fealding hot, and your ftill will drop gradually off; if you ufe a hot ftill, when you put on the top, dip a cloth in white lead and oil, and lay it well over the edges of your ftill, and a coarfe wet cloth over the top: it requires a little fire under it, but you muft take care that you keep it very clear; when your cloth is dry, dip it in cold water and lay it on again, and if your ftill be hot, wet another cloth, and lay it round the top, and keep it of a moderate heat,:>6d ti-ie experienced f-t- fo that your water is cold when it comes off the iliil.—If you life a worm ftill, keep your water hi the tub full to the top, and change the water ,often, to prevent it from growing hot; obferve to let all hmple waters ftand two or three days before you work it, tQ take off the fiery taffe of the Hill. 1 To diflil Caudle Water. . TAKE worm-wood, hore-hound, feather- few, and lavender-cotton, of each three hand- frds, rue, pepper-mint, and Sevill orange peel, of each a handful, fteep them in re<J wine, or the bottoms of ftrong beer all night, then diftij. them in^a hot ftill pretty quick, and it will be a line caudle to take as bitters. To diflil Milk Water. TAKE two handfuls of fpear or pepper- mint, the fame of balm, one handful of cardus, the fame of wormwood, and one of angelica, cut them into lengths a quarter long, and fteeD them m three quarts of fkimmed milk twelve'hours, then diftil it in a cold ftill, with a flow fire under it, keep a cloth always wet over the top of youi ftill, to keep the liquor from boiling over, the next day bottle it, cork it well, and keep it for ufe. To make Hephnatick Water for the Gravel. GATHER. your thorn-flowers in May, when T are tn full bloom, and pick them from the ItemsENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 367 Rems and leaves, and to every half peck of flowers take three quarts of Lifbon wine, and put into it a quarter of a pound of nutmegs iliced, and let them fteep in it all night, then put it into your ftill with the peeps, and keep a moderate even fire under it, fof if you let it boil over it will lole its ftrength. To diftil Peppermint Water, GET your peppermint when it is full grown, and before it feeds, cut it in fhort lengths, fill your ftill with it, and put it half full of water, then make a good fire under it, and when it is nigh boiling, and the ftill begins to drop, if your fire be too hot, draw a little out from under it, as you fee it requires, to keep it from boiling over, or your water will be muddy; the flower your ftill drops, the water will be the clearer and ftronger, but do not fpend it too far; the next day bottle it, and let it ftand three or four days, to takeoff the fire of the ftill, then cork it well, and it will keep a long time. To dijlil Elder-Flowers. GET your elder-flowers when they are in full bloom, fhake the bloffoms off, and to every peck of flowers put one quart of water, and let them fteep in it all night; then put them in a cold ftill, and take care that your water comes cold off the ftill, and it will be very clear, and draw it no longer than your liquor is good, then put it into bottles, and cork it in two or three days, and it will keep a year.the experienced’ 3^3 To diflil Rose Water. GATHER your red rofes when they are dry and full blown, pick off the leaves, and to every peck put one quart of water, then put them into a cold ftill, and make a flow fire un- der it, the flower you diflil it the better it is, then bottle it, and cork it in two or three days time, add keep it for ufe. N, B. You may diflil bean-flowers the fame way. To diflil Penny-Royal Water. GET your penny-royal when it is full grown, and before it is in bloflom, then fill your cold ffill with it, and put it half full of water, make a moderate fire under it, and diflil it off cold, then put it into bottles, and cork it in two or three days time, and keep it for ufe. To diflil Lavender Water. TO every twelve pounds of lavender-neps put one quart of wrater, put them into a cold ftill, and make a flow fire under it, and diflil it off very flow, and put into a pot till you have diftilled it off as flow as before, then put it into bottles, and cork it well. To diflil Spirits of Wine. TAKE the bottoms of ftrong beer, and any kind of wines, put them into a hot ftill about threeENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 369 three parts full, then make a very flow fire un- der, and if you do not take great care to keep it moderate, it will boil over, for the body is lo ftrong that it will fife to the top of the itill; the flower you diftil it the ftronger your fpirit will be; put it into an earthen pot till you have done diftilling, then clean your ftill well out, and put the fpirit into it, and diftil it flow as before, and make it as ftrong as to burn in your lamp, then bottle it, and cork it well, and keep it for ufe Bbb A cor- I37° THE EXPERIENCED si corrett L/ST of every ‘Thing in Seafon in every Month of the TEAR. JANUA R Y, FIS II /'NARP Soles Smelts Tench ' Flounders Whitings Perch Plaice Lobfters Lampreys Turbot Crabs Eels Thornback Prawns Craw-fifh Skate Oyfters Cod Sturgeon MEAT. Beef Veal Pork Mutton; Houfe-Lamb POULTRY, &c. Pheafant > „ Woodcocks Pullets Partridge i Game rt . ompes Fowls Hares Turkeys Chickens Rabbits Capons Tame Pjgeons ROOT S, &c. Cabbage Cardoons Lettuces Savoys Beets Creffes Coleworts Parlley Milliard Sprouts Sorrel Rape Brocoli, purple Chervil Radifh * and white Celery Turnips Spinage Endive Tarragon MintENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 37l ROOTS B b b 2 Mint Cucumbers in hot-houfes Thyme Savoury Pot-Marjoram Hyfop i Apples Pears Nuts Sage _ Parfnips Carrots Turnips Potatoes Scorzone.ra Skirrets FR U IT. Almonds Services Salfifie To be had, tho* not in feafon, Jerufalem Arti- chokes Afparagus Miilhroom^ Medlars Grapes FEBRU ARY. FISH. Cod Skate Tench Soles Whitings Perch Sturgeon Smelts Carp Plaice Lobfters Eeels Flounders Crabs Lampreys Turbot Oyfters Craw-filh Thornback Prawns * , MEAT. Beef Veal Pork Mutton Houle-Lamb POULTRY; &c. Turkeys Chickens Woodcocks Capons Pigeons Snipes Pullets Pheafants Hares Fowls Partridges Tame Rabbit372 THE EXPERIENCED Cabbage Savoys Coleworts Sprouts Brocoli, purple and white Cardoons Beets Parfley Chervil Endive Sorrel Celery Chardbeets Lettuces Crefies ROOTS, Mu hard Rape Radilhes Turnips Tarragons Mint Burnet Tan fey Thyme Savoury Marjoram Alfo may be had, Forced Radilhes Cucumbers fcfr. Afparagus Kidney-Beans Carrots Turnips Parfnips Potatoes Onions Leeks Shalots Garlick Rocombole * ' Salfifie Skirret Scorzonera Jerufalem Arti- chokes Pears F R U I T. Apples Grapes MARC H. MEAT Beef Veal Pork Mutton Houfe-Lamb P OU LT R r, fcfr. Turkeys Fowls Pigeons Pullets Chickens Tame Rabbits Capons Ducklings FISH. Cztrp Eels Soles Tench Mullets Whitings' TurbotENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 373 POULTRT, •Turbot Plaice Crabs Thor aback Flounders Craw-lilh Skate Lobfters Prawns R 0 0 T S, fcfr. Carrots Brocoli Rape Turnips Cardoons Radilhes Parfnips Beets Turnips Jerusalem Arti- Parfley Tarragon chokes Fennel Mint Onions Celery Burnet Garlick Endive Thyme Shalots Tanfey W interSavoury Coleworts Mulh rooms Pot-Marjoram • Borecole Lettuces Hyfop Cabbage Chives Fennel Savoys Crefles Cucumbers Spinage J0 Milliard FRUIT. Kidney-Beans Pears Apples Forced-Strawberries APR I L. M E A T. Beef Mutton Veal Lamb FIS H Carp Salmon Smelts Chub Turbot Herrings Tench Soles Crabs Trout Skate '; . Lobllers Craw-filh. Mullets Prawns374 THE EXPERIENCED ROOTS, Pullets Fowls Chickens Colew orts Sprouts Brocoli Spinage Fennel Parfley Chervil Apples Pears POULTRY,; &c. Ducklings Rabbits Pigeons Leverets ROOTS, e*. "-'7 w Young Onions Lettuces Celery All forts o Endive final), allad Sorrel Thyme Burnet All forts of Pot Tarragon Radifhes herbs FRUIT. Forced Cher- Apricots for ries and Tarts Carp M A Y. FISH. Salmon Lobfters T ench Soles Craw-fifh Eels Turbot Crabs Trout Herrings Prawns Chub Smelts Beef MEAT. Mutton Veal Lamb Pullets P O ULTRT, 5*. Green Gccfc Rabbits ' Fowls Ducklings Leverets Chickens Turkey PoultsENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 375 ROOTS ROOTS, fcfc. Early Potatoes Carrots Turnips Radillies Early Cabbages Cauliflowers Artichokes Spinage Parlley , Sorrel Balm Mint Purllane Fennel Lettuces Creffes Muftard AM forts of fmall Sallad Herbs Thyme Savoury All other fweet Llerbs Peas Beans Kidney-Beans Afparagus Tragopogon r Cucumbers, Set Pears Apples Strawberries •Cherries FRUIT. And Melons With Green Apricots t Goofeberries And Currants for Tarts TUNE. MEAT. 1 Beef Veal Buck Venifon Mutton Lamb P OULTRT, Fowls Ducklings Wheat-Ears Pullets Turkey Poults Leverets Chickens Plovers Rabbits Green Geefe FISH. Trout Salmon Herrings Carp Soles Smelts Tench T urbot Lobllers Pike Mullets Craw-fifh Eels Mackarel Prawns376 THE EXPERIENCED ROOTS, &c. Afparagus Kidney-Beans Artichokes Cucumbers Lettuce Spinage Parfley Purflane Rape Crelfes Ail other fmall Sallading Thyme All forts of Pot- Herbs Carrots Turnips Potatoes Parfnips Raclifhes Onions Beans Peas Cherries Strawberries Goofeberries Currants Mafculine Beef Muttofi FRUIT. Apricots Apples Pears Some Peaches Nectarines Grapes Melons Pine-Apples JULY. MEAT. _ Buck Venifon Lamb P 0 U L TR r, Pullets Ducklings Pheafants Fowls Turkey Poults Wheat-Ears Chickens Ducks Plovers Pigeons Young Par- Leverets Green Geefe tridges FISH Rabbits Cod Herrings Skate Haddocks Soles Thornback Mullets Plaice Salmon Mackarel Flounders Carp TenchENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 377 . Tench Eels Prawns Pike Lobflers Craw-fifh ROOTS, &c. Carrots Cabbages All forts of final! Turnips Sprouts Sallad Herbs Potatoes Artichokes Mint Radifhes Celery- Balm Onions Endive Thyme Garlick Finocha All other Pot- Rocombole Chervil Herbs S.corzonera Sorrel Peas Salfihe Purflaine Beans Muflirooms Lettuce Kidney-Beans Cauliflowers' CrefTes • F R U IT. / Pears Nedtarines Strawberries Apples Plums Rafpberries Cherries Apricots Melons Peaches Goofeberries Pine-Apples A U G U S MEAT T. Beef Veal Buck Venifcn Mutton Lamb P 0 U L TR r. &c. Pullets Ducklings Pheafants Fowls Leverets Wild Ducks Chickens Rabbits Wheat-Ears Green Geefe Turkey Poults Pigeons Plovers C c c FISKEXPERIENCED 378 THE 1 FISH. Cod Mullets Eels Haddocks Mackarel Lobfters Flounders Herrings Craw-fifli Plaice Pike Prawns Skate Thornback Carp Oyfters R O 0 T S, S*. Carrots Beans Pinocha Turnips Kidney-Beans Parfley Potatoes Mufhrooms Lettuces Radifhes Artichokes All forts of fmali Onions Cabbages, Sallads Garlick Cauliflowers Thyme Shalots Sprouts Savoury Scorzonera Beets Marjoram Salfifie Celery All forts of fweet Peas •- Endive F R U I T. Elerbs Peaches Pears Strawberries Ne<ftarines„ Grapes Goofeberries Plums Figs Currants Cherries Filberts Melons Apples Mulberries Pine-Apples / SEPTEMBER. MEAT. Beef iVeal Pork Mutton Lamb Buck Venifoi! P OULTR r, EsV. Geefe Pullets Chickens Turkeys Fowds Ducks ... * TealENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 379 POULTRY, C c c 2 Teals Hares Pheafants Pigeons Rabbits Partridges Larks FISH. Cod Skate Tench Haddock Soles Pike Flounders Smelts Lobfters Plaice Salmon Oyflers Thornback Carp ROOTS, fcfc. Carrots Kidney-Beans Finocha Turnips Mufhrooms Lettuces, and all Potatoes Artichokes forts of fmall Shalots Cabbages Sallads Onions Sprouts Chervil Leeks Cauliflowers Sorrel Garlick Cardoons Beets Scorzonera Endive Thyme, and all Salfifie Celery forts of Soup Peas Parfley Herbs Beans FRUIT Peaches Pilberts Currants Plums Hazel-Nuts Morello Cher- Apples Medlars ries Pears Quinces Melons Grapes Lazaroles Pine-Apples Walnuts OCTOBER. MEAT. Beef Lamb Pork Mutton Veal Doe Venifon$Bo THE EXPERIENCED Geefe T urkeys Pigeons Pullets Fowls Chickens P OULTR rs Rabbits Wild Ducks Teals Widgeons Woodcocks Snipes fcfr. Larks Dotterels Hares / Pheafants Partridges f Dorees Holobert Bearbet Smelts Brills" FIS II. Gudgeons Pike Carp Tench Perch Salmon-Trout Lobfters Cockles Mufcles Oyfters ROOTS, &V. Cabbages Scoizonera Chardbeets Sprouts Leeks Corn Sallads Cauliflowers Shalots Lettuce Artichokes Garlick All forts of Carrots Rocombole young Sallad Parfnips Celery Thyme Turnips Endive Savoury Potatoes Cardoons All forts of Pot- Skirrets Chervil Herbs Salfifie Finocha t FR U I T. Peaches Qui'nces Filberts Grapes Black and white Hazel-NutS Figs Bullace Pears Medlars Walnuts Apples Services NOVEM-ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. NOVEMBER. MEAT. Beef Veal Doe Venifon Mutton Houfe-Lamb ' P OULTR r, fcfc. Geefe Wild Ducks Dotterels Turkeys Teals Hares Fowl Widgeons Rabbits Chickens Woodcocks Partridges Pullets Snipes Pheafants Pigeons Larks FISH. Gurnets Salmon-Trout Gudgeons Dorees Smelts Lobfters Holoberts . Carp Oyfters Bearbet Pike Cockles i Salmon Tench Mufcles R 0 0 T S', Esfc. Carrots Jerufalem Arti - Crefles Turnips chokes Endive Parfnips Cabbages Chervil Potatoes Cauliflowers Lettuces Skirret Savoys All lbrts of Salfifie Sprouts fmall Sallad Scorzonera Coleworts Herbs Onions Spinage Thyme, and Leeks Chardbeets all other Pot- Shalot Cardoons Herbs Rocombole Parfley FRUIT.3S2 THE EXPERIENCED FRUIT. ^earf Chefnuts Medlars Apples Hazel-Nuts Services Bullace' Walnuts Grapes Reef Mutton Turbot Gurnets Sturgeon Dorees Holoberts Bearbet Geefe Turkeys Pullets Pigeons Capons Fowls Cabbages Savoys decembe r. meat. Veal Pork Houfe-Lamb Doe Venifon FISH. Smelts Cod Codlings Soles Carp Gudgeons Eels Cockles Mufcles Oyfters POULTR r, Chickens Hares Rabbits Woodcocks Snipes Larks Wild Ducks Teals Widgeons Dotterels Partridges Pheafants ROOTS, SsV. Potatoes Skirrets Brocoli, purple Scorzonera and white Salfine Carrots Leeks Parfnips Onions Turnips Shalots Garlick Rocombole Celery Endive Beets Spinage Parlley Lettuces 4ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 38, Lettuces Cardoons Creffes Forced-Afpara- All forts of fmall gus Sallad FRUIT. Apples Services Pears Chefnuts Medlars Walnuts Thyme All forts of Pot- Herbs Hazel- Nuts Grapes FircEiions for a Grand Table. y JANUARY being a month when entertain- ments are moil: ufed, and moll wanted, from that motive I have drawn my dinner at that feafon of the year, and hope it will be of fervice to my worthy friends; not that I have the lead; pretenhon to confine any Lady to fucli a particular number of difhes, but to chooie out of them what number they pleafe; being all in feafon, and mod of them to be got without much difficulty; as I from long experience can tell what a troublefome talk it is to make a bill of fare to be in propriety, and not to have two things of the fame kind; and being defirous of ■ rendering it eafy for the future, have made it my dudy to fet out the dinner in as elegant a manner as lies in my power, and in the modern tade; but finding I could not exprels my felt to be underdood by young houfekeepers in placing the difhes upon the table, obliged me to have two copper-plates, as I am very unwilling to leave even the weaked capacity in the dark, being my greated dudy to render my whole work3*4 THE EXPERIENCED work both plain and eafy. As to French cooks, and old-experienced houfe-keepers, they havener occafion lor toy alii fiance, it is not from them I look for any applaufe. I have not engraved a copper-plate for a third courfe, or a cold colla- tion, for that generally confifls of things extra- vagant ; but I have endeavoured to fet out a defect of fweetmeets, which the induftrious houle-keeper may lay up in lummer at a fmall expence, and, when added to what little fruit is then in feafon, will make a pretty appearance aflei the cioth. is drawn, and be entertaining to the Company. Before you draw your cloth, have all your fweetmeats and fruit difhed up in China difhes or fruit-bafkets; and as many difhes as you have in one courfe, fo many bafkets or plates your defert muft have; and as my bill of fare is twenty-five to each courfe, fo muft your defert be or the fame number, and fet out in the fame manner, and as ice is very often plen- tiful at that time, it will be eafy to make five different ices for the middle, either to be ferved upon a frame or without, 'with four plates of dried fruit round them, apricots, green-gages, grapes, and pears the four outward corners, piftacho nuts, prunellas, oranges, and olives— the four fquares, nonpareils, pears, walnuts, and filberts—the two in the centre, betwixt the top and bottom, chefnuts and Portugal plums— for fix long difhes, pine-apples, French plums, and the four brandy fruifk, which are peaches, nectarines, apricots, and cherries, I N D E X,i■aaMEaercrosT; I N D E X. A ACID for Punch Ale to mull Almonds to burn Almond Icing for Bride Calces Amulet to make of Afparagus Angelica to candy Apple Sauce Apple Floating IHand Apple 'Farts Apricots to dry Apricot Marmalade Pafte to preferve Afparagus to boil Artichokes to boil Artichoke Bottoms, to drefs with E<rg-$ Bottoms, to boil white Bottoms to dry Artichokes to pickle B Page 334 311 242 265 291 291 246 59 258 145 244 225 238 231 7* 77 290. \ 289 361 355 Bacon, a Gammon, to roafl 112 to (alt 3^7 Bancees French ^4 Barbadoes Ju nib alls 274 Beans, French, to boil 78 D d Beans, French, to keep a fecond way Windfor to boil Beef a-la-mode Brifket a-la-royale to collar fiat Ribs to force Infide Surloin Infide of Surloin to drefs v Bouille Fricando To ha/hi Heart larded Heart Mock Hare Olives to make Porcupine flat Ribs Porcupine to eat cold Round to force Rump to flew a fecond way Steaks to broil Steaks a good way 7 to fry Steaks to drefs a 7 common way 5 to hang a Surloin 7 to roaft \ Tea to pickle Bifcuits, common, to make Drops Lemon to make Spanilh to make Page 359 260 78 116 117 87 113 113 7g 118 118 1 *7 116 299 3°4 114 i‘S 7r 7r 305 312 3°8 2"6 276 276 275 BifcuitsINDEX. I>ifeuits Sponge to make Blanc-mange a fecond way a third way Brandy Cherry Orange Rafp berry Brawn Mock Bread French to make white Brocoli to boil and Eggs Browning for made Difhes Bullace Cheefe Butter to clarify Fairy c Page 275 *95 196 196 336 337 336 202 279 77 289 81 236 49 258 Cakes Violet Calf’s-Heart roalfed Calf’s-Head Hafli to drefe to collar to grill Mock-T urtle a fecond way Surprife Calf’s-Feet to fricafTce Candy Angelica Ginger Lemon, Orange- Peel Caps, black, to make green to make Carp to Few brown to Few white to drefs ;e to boil 76 Sauces Apricot, to make 242 Catchup to keep feve'n y< Bath / 271 Mum Bride 264 Mufhroom without Butter 273 Walnut Cream 272 Walnut another Currant clear 239 Cauliflowers to boil Currant 272 Celery to fry Lemon 268 to ragoo Lemon a fecond way 269 to (few Orange 268 Cardoons to fry Good Plum 266 to {few Little Plum 268 Cheefe-Cakes, Almond White Plum 267 Bread Pruilian 273 Citron Queen 27 j Common Ratafia- 269 Cheefe-Cakes Curd Ratafia a 2d way 270 Rice Rice 269 Bullace to make Common Seed 272 Egg Rich Seed 267 Cheefe Rarnequin Shrewfbury 270 Slc-e Shrewfbury 2d way 270- Page 240 281 85 86 88 88 82 83 87 282 246 243 246 206 206 29 26 26 27 s 339 339 339 338 iy 338 76 286 286 286 286 28c 258 259 25.9 260 260 259 236 261 292 236 CheefeI N D E X. -Cheefc to ftew to ftew with light Wigs Page 285 285 Craw-fifii in lavoury Jelly in Jelly Cream Cheefe Cherry Brandy 336 burnt to dry 240 Chocolate to dry'a fecond way 241 Clotted Chicken-broth to make 312 Hartfhorp Chickens to boil 64 Ice to force 126 King William’s to fricafiee 125 Lemon to roaft 65 Lemon with Peel in favoury Jelly 282 Orange Water to make 313 Piltacho Chickens artificial 126 Pompadour and Pullets to Hew 124 Rafpberry Chocolate to make 216 Ribband Chops to fait 3°6 Snow and Cockles to ftew 38 Spa nidi Cod’s Head and Should- 1 Steeple with Wine ? ers to drefs \ 20 Sours C a fecond way 22 Tea Cod, fait, to drefs 22 Crumpets Orange to make Codlings to drefs like ? l-J j a p ( Salt-fifh J 22 Cucumbers to ftew Codfounds to drefs 23 with Eggs to drefs like little Turkeys 22 Currant Clear Cake Collar Beef 3°3 Drops Flat Ribs of Beef 3°3 Green to bottle Calf’s Head 300 to dry in Bunches Eels 46 Black Rob Mackarel 43 Cuftard Almond a Breaft of Mutton 3°i Beeft a Pig 301 Common Swine’s Face 302 Lemon Breaft of Veal to ? Orange eat hot v 9i O Page 28+ 284 255 253 248 250 250 249 254 25 i 2^2 2ZZ 248 2.53 25 r 250 254 249 250 253 260 279 291 142 239 245 364 244 2 37 256 237 257 256 256 Breaft of Veal to eat cold Collops, Scotch, brown French way Cowflip Mead Cracknells Cranberries to bottle D 362 362 Damfons to bottle a iccond way to preferve whole 362 to dry 2 p2 Defert Ifland to make ! gg of fpun Sugar ,90 2 DiredlionsI N D E X. Directions for fetting 7 Page out a grand Fable $ 3§3 Diftil Bean Flower Water 368 1 0 didil Caudle Water 766 Diftil Elder i lower Water 367 Hephnatick 366 Lavender Water 368 Milk Water 366 Pennyroyal Water 368 Rofe Water 368 Spirits of Wine Ducks a-la-braife 368 128 a-la-mode 120 to boil with Onion 7 Sauce i 59 wild to hafh 75 wild to roaft: 66 tame to roaft: 59 to ftew 127 to ftew with green ] | 128 Peas ' Drops Peppermint 245 Lemon 245 Rafpberry 245 Currant 245 Dumnlins, Apple, to make 183 Barm or Yeft 184 Damfon i83 Rafpberry >S3 Sparrow 184 E Eels to boil 0 37 to broil 37 to collar 46 to pitchcocle 37 to roaft: x 30 Eggs to drels with Arti- } 290 choke Bottoms J and Brocoli 289 Cheefe to make 261 Page Eggs to fricatfee 290 Sauce to make 64. and Spinage to drefe 289 to poach with Toafts 280 Elder Rob 236 F Fifh-Pond to make to caveach to preferve to flew a good way Flounders ro boil, and all ' Kinds of Flat Filh to (lew Flummery to make Colouring for Cribbage Cards Green Eggs and Bacon in Green Melon in Oatmeal Solomon’s Tern- 7 pie in ^ Y ellow Forcement for Breaft of Yeal Porcupine for Hare Florentine Fowls a-la braife to boil to drefs cold to force to hath large to road Fritters, Apples, to make common ditto clary ditto Plu m with Rice 7 ditto $ Rafpberry ditto T'anfey ditto Water ditto . Fruit in Jelly 194 50 5X 32 33 3i *93 194 205 197 203 197 204 204 196 89 136 123 63 75 124 74 161 161 161 163 162 162 163 197 Giblets c . »E X. I N D Page G Giblets to (lew 57 Ginger to candy 243 Good Green to make 197 Gofers to make 165 Goofe to boil 57 to marinate 126 Stubble to roaft '58 Green to roaft 58 Goofeberries to bottle 363 to bottle a fecond 7 3^4 way 3 Goofeberry Pafte 239 Grapes to keep 365 Gravy to draw 1 to make 5 Green-Gages to dry 241 Gruel, Barley, to make 315 Grout 314- Sago 3*5 Water 316 _ H Haddocks to broil 35 a fecond way 35 Ham to boil 69 to roaft 112 to fait 3°6 to fmoke 306 Hare Florendine 136 to halh 4 to jug 135 to roaft 69 to flew 135 Hodge-Podge '37 Harrico by way of Soup 140 of Mutton or Lamb 140 Neck of Mutton 141 Herrings to bake 34 Page Herrings to boil 33 / to fry 33 I Jam Apricot to make 21? Black currant 214 Green Goofeberry 213 Red Rafpberry 2t2 Strawberry 2,13 Icing for Tarts 144. a fecond way 144 Almond for Bride 7 r Cake \ •* Sugar for Bride Cake 265 Jelly, Calf’s Foot, to make 191 Savoury for cold meat 192 Colouring'for 194 Craw-filh in Savoury 284 Birds in Savoury 283 Chickens in Savoury 282 Black Currant 7 to make 3 Red Currant 211 White Currant 214 Fifh-Pond in 194 Gilded Fifh in 198 Fruit in 197 Hartfhorn to make 210 a fecond way 192 Hen and Chickens in 198 Hen’s Neft 195 Floating Bland in 200 Ditto a fecond way 201 Rocky Bland in 20 r Moon and Stars in 202 Pigeons in Savoury 283 Smelts in Savoury 284 Tranfparent P14I- 7 ding 3 *99 Moonthine 202 Orange 210 Lamb’sINDEX. Page 109 108 Lamb’s Bits to drefs 282 Head and Purte- 7 nance to drefs $ Leg boiled, and 7 Loin fried y a Quarter of, forced 109 Stones fricafleed 110 Lampreys to pot 48 a fecond way 48 to roaft 30 to ftew 31 Larks to roaft 67 Lemonade to make 333 a fecond way 333 a third way 324 Lemon Drops 244 Pickle 80 Peel to candy 246 Loaf, Drunken, to make 262 Oyfter 40 Princes 262 Royal 262 Lobfters to boil 40 • to roaft 40 to ftew 41 Lobfter Patties to g-arnifh ? Fifti \ 41 to pot 49 Sauce 28 P»e Jr6 M Maccaroni, with Parme- 7 c fan Cheefe, to drefs y Maccaroons 275 Mackarel to boil 32 Ma'lt Liquors to refine 330 Marmalade Apricot to make 225 Orange 223 Quince 224 Marmalade Tranfparent Mead, Cowflip, to make Sack Walnut Midcalf to drefs Mince Pie without Meat Mock Brawn to make Turtle Page 224 332 331 332 JOI 152 302 82 Turtle a fecond W2y 83 202 298 38 288 360 Ditto a another way 361 Moonftiine to make Moor Game to pot Mufcles to ftew Mufhrocm Loaves to keep to eat like 7 freih j Powder to make to ragoo to ftew another way to pickle brown to fricaftee Mulled Ale Wing Ditto a lecond way Mutton, a Bafque, to make a Breaft to collar a Breaft to grill Broth to make to hafti to harrico Hodge-Podge Kebob’d, to make Leg to force Leg to drefs,") called Oxford > John J Leg to fait Leg fplit, and 7 Onion Sauce 3 Mutton, Leg, to drefs to 7 eat like Venifon 5 340 288 287 287 356 H3 311 3*1 312 107 301 i°5 3'3 73 140 141 105 106 108 308 125 107 MuttonI N D E X; Mutton Neck to harico 102 Neck to make 1 French Steaks > of j Neck to eat like ? ' Venifon 3 Shoulder boiled, ? Celery Sauce 5 Shoulder boiled, J called Hen and > Chickens J Shoulder boiled, ? Onion Sauce 3 Shoulder furprifed Steaks to broil I o Page , 141 103 102 104 104 103 104 71 Obfervations on boiling and roafting Beet, Mutton, Veal, and Lamb on Cakes on Creams, Cuf- tards, &c. on Decorations for a Table on Diddling 52 I 264 248 185 365 on dreffing Fiftt 14 on drying & candying 237 on made Dithes 79 on Pies and Pafte 143 onPoffets, Gruels, See. 308 on potting and collaring on roafting wild ? and tame Fowls $ on roafting Pig, Hare, Sec.- on pickling 342 on preferving 209 I 293 54 55 ©n Puddings O 167 Obfervations on Wines, Catchup, Sic. on Soups on keeping Gar- J den Stuff and J- Fruit J Orange Brandy to make Chips to candy Jelly to make Juice Marmalade Peel to candy Ox Palates to fricando to fricaflee to ftew Oyfter fauce to make Soup Oyfters to fry to pickle to fcollop to ftew Sc all Kinds of Shell Fifn Ozyat to make a fecond way Panada favoury fweet Pancakes, Batter Clary Cream Fine Pink coloured T anfey Wafer Parfnips to boil Partridges to hafti in Panes to ftew to ftew a fecond 7 way $ to roaft \ Page 3i7 358 337 243 210 334 223 246 119 120 119 60 14 39 42 332 333 292 316 166 166 16; 166 167 166 J65 79 75 133 134 134 65 Paftet N D EX. Pufte for Defert Bafkets Page 188 for Covers 188 a Chinefe Temple 7 189 or Obelifk 3 Apricot to make 238 Cold for Difh Pies 146 Red & Whi te Currants 2 39 for Cu Hards 146 for Goofe Pie f45 Goofeberry 139 Crifp for Tarts 144 Light for Tarts 144 Rafpberry 238 Pa fly, a Venifon 154 Patties, common, to make 160 to frv • j *59 7 Lob Her to garnifh Eifh 1 41 Fine . j6o Fried’ 1.59 Savoury 158 Sweet 160 Pea.chcs to dry 246 Pears to Hew 2c6 Peas, Green, to boil 78 to keep 359 to keep another wa- 7 559' to Hew 142 to Hew with Lettuce 280 Peppermint Drops 245 Perch to fry 36 in Water Sokey 37 Phcafants to roaH 65 Pickle, Indian, to make 357 in Imitation of? Barnboe 3 358 Artichokes 355 Barberries 35° Red Reet-Root 352 Red Cabbage 354 Red Cabbage a / fecond way 3 354 Pickle White Cabbage 353 Pickle Cauliflowers Cauliflower?, a ? fecoiid way 3 Cockles Codlings Cucumbers Cucumbers a fe- 7 cona way 3 Cucumbers in Slices Elder Buds Elder Shoots Grapes Kidney-BeanS Mangoes Mackarel Muihrooms Nafturtiansi Onions Oyfters Dit-o another Way Parfley Pork Radifh Buds Salmon, Newca- ] Hie way 3 Samphire Shrimps Smelts or Sparlings Walnuts fclack Ditto a fecqnd w'ay Ditto Green Ditto (Hive Colour Ditto White Pigs Chops to fait to barbecue to drefs in Imita- tion of Lamb Feet and Ears to ] ragoo < Feet and Ears to / foufe j Pettitoes to drefs r.ige 35-J 353 46 345 242 343 344 352 35^ 354 346 344' 44 355 35i 356 42 43 350 308 351 42 346 51 45 347. 347 349 343 349 3o6' 111 IIO 28a 3C5 %INDEX. Page 55 126 67 to boil with Bacon 133 to boil in Rice- to broil -•r- Pig to roaft Pigeons artificial to boil Pot Ox Cheek Page Pigeons to compote to fricando to fricalTee in a Hole jugged to roalt in favoitry-jelly 283 to tranfmogrify Pike to boil, with a pud- ding in the Belly Pikelets to make V1 13' 129 132 133 130 132 67 130 25 27S Pippins to (lew whole 237 Plaice to Hew 31 Pork to barbecue 11 r Chine to ftuff 11 2 to pickle 308 to lalt 307 Steaks to broil 72 Pofiets, Ale, to make 311 Almond to make 31° Brandy 3°9 Lemon 3°9 Orange 31° Sack 3°9 Wine 310 Potatoes to fcollop 287 Pot Beef to 293 Beef to eat ^ Venilbn-like 3 294 . all Kinds of fmall Birds | 299 Chars 47 Eels 47 Ham with Chickens 297 Hare . 297 Lampreys 48 Lobfters 48 Moor Game * 52j 298 Salmon Ditto, a fecond way Shrimps Smelts or Sparlings Tongues. Woodcocks Veal Marble Veal V enifon Preferve Apricots Apricots GreerL Barberries iri 7 Bunches $ Barberries for I arts 229 Bullace Cheefe 236 Cherries in Brandy 336 228 294 298 55 45 5° 45 296 297 295 296 295 231 218 228 Morello Cherries Codlings to keep 7 all the Year $ Cucumbers Currants Red in 7 Bunches $ Currants White 7 in Bunches 3 Black Currant Rob 237 Currants for 1 arts 21 5 Damfons Elder Rob Grapes in Brandy Green GagePlums 217 215 214 214 22 Q 236 2l6 220 GreenGoofeberries 218 Red Goofeberries Goofeberries in 1 imitation of hops 3 Lemons carved Ditto in jelly MagnumBonum 7 Plums 5 Oranges Ditto carved Lemons E e e 226 219 232 233 230 232 233 234 Preferve'I N D E X.< WfeSsrve Ditto in Jelly Ditto with Mar- 7 malade y 235 Peaches ' 231 Golden Pippins 217 Kcntifh Pippins 217 Plums Green Gage 220 Plums Magnum ? Bonum y 23° Pine-Apples 225 Qdinces whole 272 Ditto in Quarters 232 Red Rafpberries 228 White ditto 227 Sloe Cheefe 236 Sprigs Green 220 Strawberries whole 227 Wine Sours 220 Walnuts Black 221 Ditto Green 222 Ditto White 223.. Puddings Almond j68 Apple 169 Apricot* ! 74. Bread Bread, a fecond 7 way y 17 3 CalPs Feet' 173' Little Citron 177 Green Codling 178 Boiled Cuftard 169 Goofeberry 182 Hanover 184 Herb 1,82 Blunting 168 Lemon 170 Lemon a 2d way j 70 Lemon a 3d. way 170 Marrow j ~q Marrow, a fe- 7 cond way y *79 Puddings, Marred, a 7 ^ third way t Page 180 foiled Milk *81 Nice J--, Orange 171 Orange, a fe- 7 cond way \ 171 Piain ! 74 Quaking 180 Quaking, a fe- 7 cond way y Rice, common 179 Ditto boiled 172 Ditto ground 1 7 1 Red Sago ] 7 - Sago, another way 177 Sippet , 74 Tanfey with, | 176 Almonds Tanfeybaked 17* Tanfey boiled ijf Tanfey with 7 ground Rice y 17/ Tranfparent 17- D i tto a fecond way 19 g Vermicelli I7^ White in Skins 180 Yam 182 York/hire, un- 7 der Meat y 1 °1 Puffs Almond ^78 Chocolate 277 Curd 2 6 r German j64 Lemon 2~7 Pies, Beef-fteak j ^ Bride j-- Calf’s-FIead ^ Codling Chicken, a favoury j ^ t PiesI N D E X, Pies ;, Eel Page 155 Salmon to pot Egg and Bacon, } >5i to pot a fecond 1 to eat cold y way y French 146 rolled Hare 149 Sauce., Apple, for Goofe Herb, for Lent *53 Bread for roaft 9 Hottentot 154 Turkey < y for Cod’s Head ? Lobfter 156 Mince 152 and Shoulders y Olive J57 for Cod’s Head a ? Rook 157 fecond way y Salmon 149 Celery Thatched Houfe 150 Egg, for fait Cod Veal favoury 158 Egg, for roaft Fow Veal fweet J57 Lobfter Venifon 154 Ditto another way Yorkfhire Goofe 148 for Green Goofe Yorkflffre Giblet 156 for Stubble Goofe for moft Sorts of ? Q. Quince Marmalade preferved whole R Rabbits to boil florendine fricafl'ee Brown fricaflee White to roaft furprifed Rafpberry Brandy Cream Red Jam White Jam Pafte Drops Ray or Scate to boil Ruffs and Rees to roaff S Sago to make with Milk Salmon to boil crimp 224 ifi 68 *37 *39 139 68 138 336 251 212 213 238 245 34 66 3r5 23 Page 44 45 24 59 62 2 t 22 104 23 Is 64 28 28 5« 58 28 Fife 5 Onion Onion, for boiled } Goofe y Oyfter, for boiled ) T urkey y for roaffed Pig for roaffed Pig a fecond way for Salmon Shrimp for boiled Turkey ? a fecond way y White, for Fin) White, for Fowls White, for boiled ) Breaft of Veal y Saufages to fry Scate or Ray to boil Scotch Collops, Brown Collops, White Collops, French way 97 Collops to warm 73 Sheep Rumps and Kidneys 106 E e e 2 Sherbet 59 57 60 56 5^ 24, 21 61 27 63 91 290 34 96 96INDEX. I Sherbet to make to make a fecond way D itto a third way Shrimps to ftew Shrub Almond Currant another way Smelts or Sparlings to fry Snipes to roaft 1 Snow Balls to make a Dilh of Soles to caveach to fry to marinate Solomongundy to rpake a fecond way Soup, Almond, to make a-la-Reine Common Peas Oyfter Craw-fifh Gravy with Yellow Peas Green Peas Green Peas without Meat White Peas Hare Onion Brown Onion White Onion Ox Cheek Partridge Peas for Lent Portable for Travel- lers Rich Vermicelli Tranfparent White S pipage to ftew Sprats to bake Page 335 \ 335 336 41 337 337 335 36 66 263 205 5° 35 35 280 281 6 7 10 13 J3 I » 9 . 11 3 8 9 8 5 14 10 4 3 12, 13 77 24 Stew Cheefe with light Wigs Palates or Chickens Carp Ducks Ducks and Green Peas Hare Oyfters and all Sorts 7 of Shell-fifh \ Partridge Ditto a fecond way Pe2rs Peas Peas with Lettuces Rump of Beef Ditto a fecond way Tench Turkey Brown Ditto with Celery 7 Sauce ^ Strawberry Jam to make Page 285 124 29 127 128 135 38 134 134 206 142 289 114 2r5 29 121 120 213 to preferve whole 227 Stum to make Stuffing for a marinate 7 Goofe ^ Sturgeon to drefs to pickle Sugar to boil Candy Height Sugar to fpin Gold Colour Silver Colour Spun Sugar, a Defert of Sweetbreads a-la-Daube to fricafTee Brown to fricafTee White forced to ragoo 329 12.7 29 41 247 188 187 190 98* 99 99 98 99 Syllabubs, Lemon, to make 207 Lemon, a fecond way Solid under the Cow Whip j 2C7 207 208 208 TeaieI N D E X. Page w T Teale to roafl 66 Tench to Hew Brown 29 to ftew 29 Toaft, fried, to make 263 Tongues to boil 69 to fait 3 °7 Trifle to make 255 Tripe foufed 30 5 Trout to fry 36 Turbot to boil 25 Turkey boiled, Oyfter 7 60 Sauce j a-la-Daube, hot 122 cold 123 to hafli 74 to roaft 62 foufed 304 fie wed and Celery 1 | 120 Sauce ' ftewed Brown 121 Turtle to drefs icolb. Weight i J tod refs a fecond way I 9 artificial to make ' 84 Forcemeat for ditto 85 Mock to drefs 82 a fecond way ! . 83 To make Artificial Flowers 189 V Veal, a Bread:, to boil 91 a Breaft, to collar 91 Ditto to porcupine 89 Ditto to ragoo 90 a Fillet bombarded 93 to ragoo a Fillet too to flew a Fillet ICO to fricando 94. to hafh 73 to difguife a Leg 1 o r £0 mince 72 Pag? Veal, to a-la-roy.il a Netk of 92 Veal Neck of Cutlets 92 Olives 94 Ditto a fecond way 95 Vcnifon Pally *54 to hafh . 72 Haunch roafled 70 Vinegar, Elder Flower 340 Goofeberry 341 Sugar 34i T arragon 340 Violet Cakes 240 w Wafers to make 2 77 Wafer Pancakes 165 Wafer Imperial 337 Barley 3*4 Web Silver to fpin 187 Gold to fpin 188 Whet before Dinner 139 Whey, Cream of Tartar 3L4 Scurvy Grafs 214 Wine 313 Whitings to broil 35 • a fecond way 35 Wigs, light, to make 274 Wine Balm 327 Blackberry 322 Birch 324 Birch, a fecond way 325 Clary 327 Cowllip 325 Ditto, a fecond way 326 Red Currant 323 Ditto another way 323 Elder Power 326 Elder Raifin 3i9 Ginger 33° Pearl Goofeberry 321 Goofeberrv, a fe- ? cond way $ 321 WineINDEX. / , Page Wine, Lemon, to drink } like Citron Water } 3r7 a fecond way 318 Orange 318 a fecond way 3x8 a third way 319 Acid Raifinto cure 327 Wine, Smyrna, Raifin Raifin, another way Rafpberry Sycamore Walnut Woodcock to hafh to roaft Page 3J9 320 322 324 325 75 66 F I N I S.