THE PltO STATE GLAND. 767 is covered by a quantity of fat, and by a thin layer of fascia continued from the obturator fascia. Its 'posterior border is continuous with the Coccygeus muscle. Its anterior border is separated from the muscle of the opposite side by a triangular space, through which the urethra, and in the female the vagina, passes from the pelvis. Actions. This muscle supports the lower end of the rectum and vagina, and also the bladder during the efforts of expulsion. The Coccygeus is situated behind and parallel with the preceding. It is a triangular plane of muscular and tendinous fibres, arising, by its apex, from the spine of the ischium and lesser sacro-sciatic ligament, and inserted, by its base, into the margin of the coccyx and into the side of the lower piece of the sacrum. This muscle is continuous with the posterior border of the Levator ani, and closes in the back part of the outlet of the pelvis. Relations. By its inner or pelvic surface, with the rectum. By its external surface, with the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament. By its posterior border, with the Pyriformis. Action. The Coccygei muscles raise and support the coccyx, after it has been pressed backwards during defecation or parturition. Position of the Viscera at the Outlet of the Pelvis. Divide the central tendinous point of the perineum, separate the rectum from its connections by dividing the fibres of the Levator ani, which descend upon the sides of the prostate gland, and draw the gut backwards towards the coccyx, when the under surface of the prostate gland, the neck and base of the bladder, the vesiculee seminales, and vasa deferemVa will be exposed. The Prostate Gland, is placed immediately in front of the neck of the bladder, around the prostatic portion of the urethra, its base being turned backwards, and 435.—A View of the Position of the Viscera at the Outlet of the Pelvis. its under surface towards the rectum. It is retained in its position by the Levator prostatas and by the pubo-prostatic ligaments, and is invested by a dense fibrous covering, continued froir the posterior layer of the deep perinaeal fascia. The longest diameters of this gland are in the antero-posterior direction, and transversely