653 THE LIVER. unite into one which issues from the were the stalk or axis of the lobule. 1 366. Longitudinal section of a small portal vein and canal, after Riernan. a. Portions of the canal from which the vein has been removed ; b, side of the portal vein in contact with the canal; c, the side of the vein which is separated from the canal by the hepatic artery and duct, with areolar tissue (G-lisson's capsule); d, internal surface of the por- tal vein, through which are seen the outlines of the lobules and the openings, e, of the interlobular veins; /, vaginal veins of Kiernan ; g, hepatic artery ; h. hepatic duct. the origin of the biliary ducts. 1. That f^erlobular plexus, the bile being secrete lobule, the m^ralobular vein, forming as it e intralobular veins run into small branches —SM&lobular—around which therefore the lobules are clustered, and which are the radicles of the hepatic veins. These veins (as mentioned at p. 448) finally converge to form three large trunks which open into the vena cava, while that vessel is situated in the fissure appropriated to it at the back of the liver. The hepatic cells are of more or less spheroidal form; but may be rounded, flattened, or many-sided, from mutual compression. They vary in size from the ToW t° the 2W0 °f an incn in diameter, and contain a distinct nucleus in the in- terior, or sometimes two. In the nucleus is a highly refracting nucleolus, with granules. The cell-contents are viscid, and contain yellow particles, the colour- ing matter of the bile, and oil-globules. The cells adhere together by the surfaces so as to form rows, which radiate from the centre towards the circumference of the lobule. These cells are the chief agents in the secretion of the bile. Origin of the biliary ducts. — Three views have prevailed in recent times as to they commence external to the lobules in an d by the hepatic cells within the lobule, and passing into the radicles of the ducts by osmosis from those cells. This was Kiernan's view.* 2. The other two views coincide in the belief that the radicles of * Kiernan, however, admitted that possibly the biliary channels might be traced some short distance into the lobules, whilst others (Henle, &c.) believed that they originate entirely external to the lobules.