THE GANGLIA. lxxxiii the naked eye, exist in considerable numbers upon the nerves distributed to the different viscera. The ganglia are invested by a smooth and firm closely-adhering membranous envelope, consisting of dense areolar tissue ; this sheath is continuous with the perineurium of the nerves, and sends Fig. XLVI.—From a transverse section through the spinal canal of a calf, mag- nified about 180 diameters, showing part of the central canal and the tissue imme- diately around it, viz. the central grey nucleus. The canal is lined with epithe- lium, composed of ciliated more or less conical cells; in most instances a fila- mentous process passes from the cell into the tissue underneath. This tissue contains, in a hyaline matrix, a network of fibrils ; most of these run horizontally, others have a longitudinal course, and appear therefore here cut transversely, i.e. as small dots. The nuclei correspond to the cells of the neuroglia, the cell substance not being shown. Both the nuclei of the neuroglia cells and those of the epithelium contain three or more large disc-shaped particles. (Klein and Noble Smith.) Fig. XLYII.—Section through a micro- scopic ganglion, magnified 300 diameters. c, Capsule of the ganglion, n, Nerve fibres passing out of the ganglion. The nerve fibres which entered the ganglion are not represented. The nerve fibres are ordinary medullated fibres, but the details of their structure are not shown, owing to the low magnifying power. The ganglion cells are invested by a special capsule, lined by a few nuclei, which are here represented as if contained in the capsule. (Klein and Noble Smith.) numerous processes into the interior of the ganglion, which support the blood-vessels supplying its substance. In structure, all ganglia are essentially similar, consisting of the same structural elements as the other nervous centres —viz., a collection of vesicular nervous matter, traversed by tubular and gelatinous nerve-fibres. The vesicular nervous matter consists of nerve-cells or ganglion-globules, most of which appear free, and of a round or oval form ; these are more especially seated near the surface of the ganglion; others have caudate processes, and give origin to nerve-fibres. In the ganglion, the nerve-cells are usually enclosed in a capsule of granular corpuscles and fibres. The tubular nerve-fibres run through the ganglion, some being collected into bundles, while others, separating from each other, take a circuitous course among the nerve-cells before leaving the ganglion. The Nerves are round or flattened cords, which are connected at one end with the cerebro-spinal centre or with the ganglia, and are distributed at the other end to the various textures of the body : they are subdivided into two great classes, the cerebro-spinal, which proceed from the cerebro- e 2