648 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. rectum. These folds are about half an inch in width, and contain some of the circu- lar fibres of the gut. In the empty state of the intestine they overlap each other, as Mr. Houston remarks, so effectually as to require considerable manoeuvring to con- duct a bougie or the finger along the canal of the intestine. Their use seems to be, i to support the weight of fsecal matter, and prevent its urging towards the anus, where its presence always excites a sensation demanding its discharge.' The mucous membrane of the large intestine presents for examination epithelium, simple follicles, and solitary glands. The epithelium is of the columnar kind. The simple follicles are minute tubular prolongations of the mucous membrane, arranged perpendicularly, side by side, over its entire surface ; they are longer, more numerous, and placed in much closer apposition than those of the small intestine ; and they open by minute rounded orifices upon the surface, giving it a cribriform appearance. The solitary glands (fig. 361) in the large intestine are most abundant in the coscum and appendix vermiformis, but are irregularly scattered also over the rest of the intestine. They are similar to those of the small intestine. The nerves of the intestine are derived from the plexuses of sympathetic nerves around the mesenteric arteries. From this source they run to a plexus of nerves and ganglia situated between the circular and longitudinal fibres (Auerbach's plexus) from which the nervous branches are distributed to the muscular coats of the intestine. From this plexus a secondary plexus is derived (Meissner's plexus) (fig. 362), which is formed by branches which have perforated the circular muscular fibres. This plexus lies between the muscular and mucous coat of the intestine. It is also gangliated, and from it the ultimate fibres pass to the muscularis mucosae and to the mucous membrane. The Liver. The liver is a glandular organ of large size, intended mainly for the secretion of the bile, but effecting also important changes in certain constituents of the blood in their passage through the gland. It is situated in the right hypochondriac region, and extends across the epigastrium into the left hypochondrium. It is the largest gland in the body, weighing from three to four pounds (from fifty to sixty ounces avoirdupois). It measures, in its transverse diameter, from ten to twelve inches; from six to seven in its antero-posterior; and is about three inches thick at the back part of the right lobe, which is the thickest part. Its upper surface is convex, directed upwards and forwards, smooth, covered by peritoneum. It is in relation with the under surface of the Diaphragm; and below, to a small extent, with the abdominal parietes. The surface is divided into two unequal lobes, the right and left, by a fold of peritoneum, the suspensory or broad ligament. Its under surface is concave, directed downwards and backwards, and in relation with the stomach and duodenum, the hepatic flexure of the colon, and the right kidney and suprarenal capsule. The surface is divided by a longitudinal fissure into a right and left lobe. The posterior border is rounded and broad, and connected to the Diaphragm by the coronary ligament; it is in relation with the aorta, the vena cava, and the crura of the Diaphragm. The anterior border is thin and sharp, and marked, opposite the attachment of the broad ligament, by a deep notch. In adult males, this border usually corre- sponds with the margin of the ribs : but in women and children, it usually projects below the ribs. The right extremity of the liver is thick and rounded; whilst the left is thin and flattened. Changes of Position. —The student should make himself acquainted with the different circumstances under which the liver changes its position, as they are of importance in determining the existence of enlargement or other disease of the organ.