19 THE SKULL. sionally one of these processes deviates a little from the median line, a fact to be remembered in practice, as irregularities of this sort are attendant also on frac- tures or displacements of the spine. On either side of the spinous processes, extending the whole length of the column, is the vertebral groove formed by the laminae in the cervical and lumbar regions, where it is shallow, and by the lamina? and transverse processes in the dorsal region, where it is deep and broad. In the recent state, these grooves lodge the deep muscles of the back. External to the vertebral grooves are the articular processes, and still more externally the trans- verse processes. In the dorsal region, the latter processes stand backwards, on a plane considerably posterior to the same processes in the cervical and lumbar j regions. In the cervical region, the transverse processes are placed in front of the articular processes, and between the intervertebral foramina. In the lumbar, they j are placed also in front of the articular processes, but behind the intervertebral j foramina. In the dorsal region, they are posterior both to the articular processes and foramina. The lateral surfaces are separated from the posterior by the articular processes in the cervical and lumbar regions, and by the transverse processes in the dorsal. These surfaces present in front the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae, marked in the dorsal region by the facets for articulation with the heads of the ribs. More posteriorly are the intervertebral foramina, formed by the juxtaposition of the inter- j vertebral notches, oval in shape, smallest in the cervical and upper part of the dorsal 1 regions, and gradually increasing in size to the last lumbar. They are situated I between the transverse processes in the neck, and in front of them in the back and j loins, and transmit the spinal nerves. The base of the vertebral column is formed by the under surface of the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra; and the summit by the upper surface of the atlas. The vertebral or spinal canal follows, the different curves of the spine; it is largest in those regions in which the spine enjoys the greatest freedom of movement, as in the neck and loins, where it is wide and triangular; and narrow and rounded in the back, where motion is more limited. THE SKULL. The Skull, or superior expansion of the vertebral column, has been described as if composed of four vertebrae, the elementary parts of which are specially modified in form and size, and almost immoveably connected, for the reception of thebra in, and special organs of the senses. These vertebrae are the occipital, parietal, frontal, and nasal. Descriptive anatomists, however, divide the skull into two parts, the Cranium and the Face. The Cranium (icpdvoe, a helmet) is composed of eight bones : viz., the occipital, two parietal, frontal, two temporal, sphenoid, and ethmoid. The Face is composed of fourteen bones : viz., the two nasal, two superior maxillary, two lachrymal, two malar, two palate, two inferior turbinated, vomer, and inferior maxillary. The ossicula auditHs, the teeth, and Wormian bones, are not included m this enumeration. Occipital. Two Parietal. Frontal. Two Temporal. Sphenoid. Ethmoid. Two Nasal. Two Superior Maxillary. Two Lachrymal. Two Malar. Two Palate. Two Inferior Turbinated. Vomer. Inferior Maxillary. c 2 Cranium, 8 bones. Skull, 22 bones. Face, 14 bones.