7 DORSAL VERTEBRAE. of the dorsal region their form is very characteristic, being heart-shaped, and broader in the antero-posterior than in the lateral direction. They are thicker behind than in front, flat above and below, convex and prominent in front, deeply concave behind, slightly constricted in front and at the sides, and marked on each side, near the root of the pedicle, by two demi-facets, one above, the other below. These are covered with cartilage in the recent state; and, when articulated with the adjoining vertebrse, form oval surfaces for the reception of the heads of the corresponding ribs. The pedicles are directed backwards, and the inferior intervertebral notches are of large size, and deeper than in any other region of the spine. The laminse are broad and thick, and the spinal foramen small, and of a circular form. The articular processes are flat, nearly vertical in direction, and project from the upper and lower part of the pedicles, the superior being directed backwards and a little outwards and upwards, the inferior forwards and a little inwards and downwards. The transverse processes arise from the same parts of the arch as the posterior roots of the transverse processes in the neck; they are thick, strong, and of great length, directed obliquely backwards and outwards, presenting a clubbed extremity, which is tipped on its anterior part by a small concave surface, for articulation with the tubercle of a rib. Besides the articular facet for the rib, two indistinct tubercles may be seen rising from the extremity of the transverse processes, one near the upper, the other near the lower border. In man, they are comparatively of small size, and serve only for the attachment of muscles. But, in some animals, they attain considerable magnitude either for the purpose of more closely connecting the segments of this portion of the spine, or for muscular and ligamentous attachment. The spinous processes are long, triangular in form, directed obliquely downwards, and termi- nating by a tubercular margin. They overlap one another from the fifth to the eighth, but are less oblique in direction above and below. 5.—A Dorsal Vertebra. The peculiar dorsal vertebrse are the first, ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth (% 6). The First Dorsal Vertebra presents, on each side of the body, a single entire articular facet for the head of the first rib, and a half facet for the upper half of the second. The upper surface of the body is like that of a cervical vertebra, being broad transversely, concave, and lipped on each side. The articular surfaces are oblique, and the spinous process thick, long, and almost horizontal.