OF THE FOOT. muscular septum, which separates it from the Soleus above, and the Flexor longus pollicis below. The Peroneus Brevis lies beneath the Peroneus longus and is shorter and smaller than it. It arises from the middle third of the external surface of the shaft of the fibula, internal to the Peroneus longus ; from the anterior and posterior borders of the bone; and from the intermuscular septa separating it from the adjacent muscles on the front and back part of the leg. The fibres pass vertically downwards, and terminate in a tendon, which runs in front of that of the preceding muscle through the same groove, behind the external malleolus, being contained in the same fibrous sheath, and lubricated by the same synovial membrane ; it then passes through a separate sheath on the outer side of the os calcis, above that for the tendon of the Peroneus longus, and is finally inserted into the dorsal surface of the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, on its outer side. Relations. By its superficial Surface, wiuh the Peroneus longus and the fascia of the leg and foot. By its deep surface, with the fibula and outer side of the os calcis. Nerves. The Peroneus longus and brevis are supplied by the musculo-cutaneous branch of the external popliteal nerve. Actions. The Peroneus longus and brevis extend the foot upon the leg, in con- junction with the Tibialis posticus, antagonising the Tibialis anticus and Peroneus tertius, which are flexors of the foot. The Peroneus longus also everts the sole of the foot; hence the extreme eversion occasionally observed in fracture of the lower end of the fibula, where that bone offers no resistance to the action of this muscle. Taking their fixed point below, the Peronei serve to steady the leg upon the foot. This is especially the case in standing upon one leg, when the tendency of the superincumbent weight is to throw the leg inwards : the Peroneus longus overcomes this tendency, by drawing on the outer side of the leg, and thus main- tains the perpendicular direction of the limb. Surgical Anatomy. The student should now consider the position of the tendons of the various muscles of the leg, their relation with the ankle-joint and surrounding blood-vessels, and especially their action upon the foot, as their rigidity and contraction give rise to one or other of the kinds of deformity known as club-foot. The most simple and common deformity, and one that is rarely, if ever, congenital, is the talipes equinus, the heel being raised by rigidity and contraction of the Gastrocnemius muscle, and the patient walking upon the bail of the foot. In the talipes varus, which is the more common .congenital form, the heel is raised by the Tendo Achillis, the inner border of the foot drawn upwards by the Tibialis anticus, and the anterior two-thirds of the foot twisted inwards by the Tibialis posticus and Flexor longus digitorum, the patient walking upon the outer edge of the foot, and in severe cases upon the dorsum and outer ankle. In the talipes valgus, the outer edge of the foot is raised by the Peronei muscles, and the patient walks on the inner ankle. In the talipes calcaneus the toes are raised by the Extensor muscles, the heel is depressed, and the patient walks upon it. Other varieties of deformity are met with, as the talipes equino-varus, equino-valgus, and calcaneo-valgus, whose names sufficiently indicate their nature. Each of these deformities may be successfully relieved (after other remedies fail) by division of the opposing tendons and fascia: by this means, the foot regains its proper position, and the tendons heal by the organization of lymph thrown out between the divided ends. The operation is easily per- formed by putting the contracted tendon upon the stretch, and dividing it by means of a narrow sharp-pointed knife inserted between it and the skin. Muscles and Fascia of the Foot. The fibrous bands which bind down the tendons in front of and behind the ankle in their passage to the foot, should now be examined ; they are termed the annular ligaments, and are three in number, anterior, internal, and external. The Anterior Annular Ligament consists of a superior or vertical portion, which binds down the extensor tendons as they descend on the front of the tibia and fibula ; and an inferior or horizontal portion, which retains them in connection with the tarsus, the two portions being connected by a thin intervening layer of fascia. The vertical portion is attached externally to the lower end of the fibula,