SPHENOID BONE. 35 face presenting, in the median line, a slight longitudinal eminence, with a depression on each side, for lodging the olfactory nerves. A narrow transverse groove, the optic groove, bounds the above-mentioned surface behind; it lodges the optic commissure, and terminates on either side in the optic foramen, for the passage of the optic nerve and ophthalmic artery. Behind the optic groove is a small eminence, olive-like in shape, the olivary process; and still more posteriorly, a deep depression, the pituitary fossa or, ' sella Turcica,' which lodges the pituitary body. This fossa is perforated by numerous foramina, for the transmission of 34.—Sphenoid Bene. Superior Surface. mtrient vessels to the substance of the bone. It is bounded in front by two small jminences, one on either side, called the middle clinoid processes (icXivri, a bed), md behind by a square-shaped plate of bone, terminating at each superior angle n a tubercle, the posterior clinoid processes, the size and form of which vary lonsiderably in different individuals. These processes deepen the pituitary fossa; ihd serve for the attachment of prolongations from the tentorium cerebelli. The lides of the plate of bone supporting the posterior clinoid processes are notched or the passage of the sixth pair of nerves; and behind, this plate of bone pre1- lents a shallow depression, which slopes obliquely backwards, and is continuous nth the basilar groove of the occipital bone; it supports the upper part of the Dons Varolii. On either side of the body is a broad groove, curved something like |be italic letter f; it lodges the internal carotid artery and the cavernous sinus, and |3 called the cavernous groove. The posterior stwface, quadrilateral in form, articulates vith the basilar process of the occipital bone. During childhood these bones .re separated by a layer of cartilage; but in after-life (between the eighteenth -nd twenty-fifth years) this becomes ossified, ossification commencing above, and xtending downwards ; and the two bones then form one piece. The anterior surface %• 35) presents, in the middle line, a vertical lamella of bone which articulates n front with the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, forming part of the septum f the nose. On either side of it are the irregular openings leading into the phenoidal cells or sinuses. These are two large irregular cavities, hollowed out of he interior of the body of the sphenoid bone, and separated from one another by more or less complete perpendicular bony septum. Their form and size vary onsiderably; they are seldom symmetrical, and are often partially subdivided by "regular osseous laminae. Occasionally, they extend into the basilar process of d 2