GENERAL ANATOMY. cxlviii upper part of the rectum ; from the third, the middle third of the rectum. The buccal cavity on the one hand, and the lower portion of the rectum on the other, are separate productions from the middle and external layers of the blastodermic membrane, and do not communicate with the com- mon cavity till a later period, The permanence of the foetal septum in either case constitutes a well-known deformity—imperforate oesophagus or imperforate rectum, as the case may be. The anal cavity is at first common to the urogenital and the digestive organs. The development of the palate has been spoken of above. The tongue appears about the fifth week as a small elevation, behind the inferior maxillary arch, to which is united another projection from the second pharyngeal arch. The epithelial layer is furnished by the external blastodermic membrane. The tonsils appear about the fourth month. The middle portion of the primitive intestine is at first a groove com- municating freely with, the umbilical vesicle. The groove is early con- verted into a straight tube, which, however, is still open where it communicates with the umbilical vesicle. This opening contracts more and more as the embryo advances in development, and as the importance of the vitelline duct and yolk-sac diminishes, until at length all traces of the latter structures disappear in the normal condition. Abnormally, how- ever, a diverticulum is sometimes formed from the small intestine near Fig, XCV.-—Early form of the alimentary canal (from Kolliker after Bischoff). In A a front view, and in B an autero-posterior section, are represented, a, four pharyngeal or visceral plates ; b, the pharynx ; c, c, the commencing lungs ; d, the stomach : /, f, the diverticula connected with the formation of the liver; g, the yolk-sac into which the middle intestinal groove opens; h, the posterior part of the intestine. the ceecttm, which is regarded with great probability as a pervious portion of the omphalomesenteric duct, and which has been found passing into the umbilical cord, The peritoneal folds are furnished by the splanchno- pleural layer of the toesoblast, coated by the epithelial layer of hypo- blast. In the cephalic portion of the primitive intestine these folds remain separate on the two sides to form the pleurae, and a central por- A B