ORGANS OF SENSE. 576 at the middle and back parts of the nasal fossse, and largest at the lower and back part of the septum. Owing to the great thickness of this membrane, the nasal fossae are much nar- rower, and the turbinated bones, especially the lower ones, appear larger and more prominent than in the skeleton. From the same circumstance, also, the various apertures oommunicating with the meatuses are either narrowed or completely closed. In the superior meatus, the aperture of communication with the posterior ethmoidal cells is considerably diminished in size, and the spheno-palatine foramen completely covered in. In the middle meatus, the opening of the infundibulum is partially hidden by a projecting fold of mucous membrane, and the orifice of the antrum is contracted to a small circular aperture, much narrower than in the skeleton. In the inferior meatus, the orifice of the nasal duct is partially hidden by either a single or double valvular mucous fold, and the anterior palatine canal either completely closed in, or a tubular cul-de-sac of mucous membrane is continued a short distance into it. In the roof, the opening leading to the sphenoidal sinus is narrowed, and the apertures in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid completely closed in. The arteries of the nasal fossai are the anterior and posterior ethmoidal, from the ophthalmic, which supply the ethmoidal cells, frontal sinuses, and roof of the nose; the spheno-palatine, from the internal maxillary, which supplies the mucous membrane covering the spongy bones, the meatuses and septum; and the alveolar branch of the internal maxillary, which supplies the lining membrane of the antrum. The ramifications of these vessels form a close, plexiform network, beneath and in the substance of the mucous membrane. The veins of the nasal fosses form a close network beneath the mucous mem- brane. They pass, some with the veins accompanying the spheno-palatine artery, through the spheno-palatine foramen; and others, through the alveolar branch, join the facial vein ; some accompany the ethmoidal arteries, and terminate in the ophthalmic vein; and, lastly, a few communicate with the veins in the interior of the skull, through the foramina in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and the foramen caecum. The nerves are, the olfactory, the nasal branch of the ophthal- mic, filaments from the anterior dental branch of the superior maxillary, the Vidian, naso- palatine, descending anterior palatine, and spheno-palatine branches of Meckel's ganglion. The olfactory, the special nerve of the sense of smell, is distributed over the upper third of the septum, and over the sur- face of the superior and middle spongy bones. The nasal branch of the oph- thalmic distributes filaments to the upper and anterior part of the septum, and outer wall of the nasal fossae. Filaments from the anterior dental branch of the superior maxillary supply the inferior meatus and inferior turbinated bone. The Vidian nerve supplies the upper and back part of the septum, and superior spongy bone; and the upper anterior nasal branches from, the spheno-palatine ganglion, have a similar distribution. 307.—Nerves of Septum of Nose. Right Side.