VEINS. 442 ' The bronchial veins return the blood from the substance of the lungs; that of the right side opens into the vena azygos major, near its termination ; that of the left side, into the left superior intercostal vein. The Spinal Veins. The numerous venous plexuses placed upon and within the spine may be ar- ranged into four sets. 1. Those placed on the exterior of the spinal column (the dorsi-spinal veins). 2. Those situated in the interior of the spinal canal, between the vertebrae and the theca vertebralis (meningo-rachidian veins). 3. The veins of the bodies of the vertebrae. 4. The veins of the spinal cord (medulli-spinal). 1. The Dorsi-Sjrinal Veins commence by small branches, which receive their blood from the integument of the back of the spine, and from the muscles in the vertebral grooves. They form a complicated network, which surrounds the spinous processes, the laminae, and the transverse and articular processes of all the vertebrae. At the bases of the transverse processes, they communicate, by means of ascending and descending branches, with the veins surrounding the contiguous vertebrae, and they join with the veins in the spinal canal by branches which perforate the ligamenta subflava ; they terminate in the intervals between the arches of the vertebrae, by joining the vertebral veins in the neck, the intercostal veins in the thorax, and the lumbar and sacral veins in the loins and pelvis. 2. The principal veins contained in the spinal canal are situated between the theca vertebralis and the vertebrae. They consist of two longitudinal plexuses, one of which runs along the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrae throughout the entiie length of the spinal canal (anterior longitudinal spinal veins), receiving the veins belonging to the bodies of the vertebrae (venae basis vertebrarum). The other plexus (posterior longitudinal spinal veins) is placed on the inner, or anterior surface of the laminae of the vertebrae, and extends also along the entire length of the spinal canal. The Anterior Longitudinal Spinal Veins consist of two large, tortuous, venous canals, which extend along the whole length of the vertebral column, from the fora- men magnum to the base of the coccyx, being placed one on each side of the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrae, external to the posterior common ligament. These veins communicate together opposite each vertebra, by transverse trunks, which pass beneath the ligament, and receive the large venae basis vertebrarum, from the interior of the body of each vertebra. The anterior longitudinal spinal veins are least developed in the cervical and sacral regions. They are not of uniform size throughout, being alternately enlarged and constricted. At the intervertebral foramina, they communicate with the dorsi-spinal veins, and with the vertebral veins in the neck, with the intercostal veins in the dorsal region, and with the lumbar and sacral veins in the corresponding regions. The Posterior Longitudinal Spinal Veins, smaller than the anterior, are situated one on either side, between the inner surface of the laminae and the theca vertebralis. They communicate (like the anterior), opposite each vertebra, by transverse trunks; and with the anterior longitudinal veins, by lateral transverse branches, which pass from behind forwards. These veins, at the intervertebral foramina, join with the dorsi-spinal veins. 3. The Veins of the Bodies of the Vertebras (venae basis vertebrarum) emerge from the foramina on their posterior surface, and join the transverse trunk connecting the anterior longitudinal spinal veins. They are contained in large Journ. of Anat. and Phys. vol. xiii. p. 346. The most important difference between his description and that in the text, is that he always found two superior intercostal veins on both sides ; the vein from the first space being separate, and joining the corresponding innomi- nate vein. The lower (and larger) superior intercostal vein he describes as opening into the Azygos on the right and innominate on the left side.