THE EPITHELIUM. fix of g-yfch of a line in diameter, he calculates that the whole of these glands , would present an evaporating surface of about eight square inches. Each gland consists of a single tube intricately convoluted, terminating at one end by a blind extremity, and opening at the other end upon the surface of the skin. In the larger glands this single duct usually divides and subdivides dichotomously ; the smaller ducts ultimately terminating in short csecal pouches, rarely anastomosing. The wall of the duct is thick ; the width of the canal rarely exceeding one-third of its diameter. The tube, both in the gland and where it forms the excretory duct, consists of two layers: an outer, formed by fine areolar tissue ; and an inner layer of epithelium. The external, or fibro-cellular coat, is thin, continuous with the superficial layer of the corium, and extends only as high as the surface of the true skin. The epithelial lining is much thicker, continuous with the epidermis, and alone forms the spiral portion of the tube. When the cuticle is carefully removed from the surface of the cutis, these convoluted tubes of epidermis may be drawn out, and form nipple-shaped projections on its under surface. According to Kolliker, a layer of non-striated muscular fibres, arranged longitudinally, is found between the areolar and epithelial coats of the ducts of the larger sweat-glands, as in the axilla, root of the penis, on the labia majora, and round the anus. The contents of the smaller sweat-glands are quite fluid ; but in the larger glands, the contents are semi-fluid and opaque, and contain a number of coloured granules, and cells which appear analogous to epithelial cells. THE EPITHELIUM. All the surfaces of the body, the external surface of the skin, the internal surface of the digestive and respiratory tracts, the closed serous cavities, the inner coat of the vessels, and the ducts of all glands, are covered by one or more layers of simple cells, called epithelium or epithe- lial cells, which serve various purposes, both as a, protective layer, and as an agent in secretion. Thus, in the skin, the main purpose served by the epithelium (here called the epidermis) is that of protection. As the surface is worn away by the agency of friction or change of temperature, new cells are supplied, and thus the surface of the true skin, and the vessels and nerves which it contains, are defended from damage. In the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane and in the glands, the epithelial cells appear to be the principal agents in separating the secretion from the blood or from the alimentary fluids. In other situations (as the nose, fauces, and respiratory passages) the chief office of the epithelial cells appears to be to maintain an equable temperature by the moisture with which they keep the surface always slightly lubricated. In the serous cavities they also keep the opposed layers moist, and thus facilitate their movements on each other. Finally, in all internal parts they ensure a perfectly smooth surface. The epithelium is usually spoken of as tesselated or pavement, columnar, spheroidal or glandular, and ciliated. The pavement-epithelium is composed of flat nucleated scales of various shapes, usually polygonal, and varying in size. These scales often contain