CRANIAL NERVES. Fifth Nerve. The Fifth Nerve {trifacial, trigeminus) is the largest cranial nerve, and re- sembles a spinal nerve, in its origin by two roots, and in the existence of a ganglion on its posterior root. The functions of this nerve are various. It is a nerve of special sense, of common sensation, and of motion. It is the great sensitive nerve of the head and face, the motor nerve of the muscles of mastication, and its lingual branch is one of the nerves of the special sense of taste. It arises by two roots a posterior larger or sensory, and an anterior smaller or motor root. Its superficial origin is from the side of the pons Varolii, a little nearer to the upper than the 279.—Ner ves of the Orbit find Ophthalmic Ganglion. Side View. lower border. The smaller root consists of three or four bundles ; in the larger, the bundles are more numerous, varying in number from seventy to a hundred : the two roots are separated from one another by a few of the transverse fibres of the pons. The deep origin of the larger or sensory root may be traced between the transverse fibres of the pons Varolii to the lateral tract of the medulla oblongata, immediately behind the olivary body. According to some anatomists, it is connected with the grey nucleus at the back part of the medulla, between the fasciculi teretes and resti- form columns. By others, it is said to be continuous with the fasciculi teretes and lateral column of the cord ; and, according to Foville, some of its fibres are connected with the transverse fibres of the pons; whilst others enter the cerebellum, spreading out on the surface of its middle peduncle. The motor root has been traced by Bell and Retzius to be connected with the pyramidal body. The two roots of the nerve pass forwards through an oval opening in the dura mater, opposite the internal auditory meatus : here the fibres of the larger root enter a large semilunar ganglion (Casserian), while the smaller root passes beneath the ganglion without having any connection with it, and joins outside the cranium with one of the trunks derived from it. The Casserian, or Semilunar Ganglton, is lodged in a depression near the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It is of a somewhat crescentic form, with its convexity turned forwards. Its upper surface is intimately adherent to the dura mater. Besides the small or motor root, the large superficial petrosal nerve lies underneath the ganglion. Branches. This ganglion receives, on its inner side, filaments from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic ; and from it some minute branches are given off to the