GENERAL ANATOMY. cxviii result. In the human embryo also the three layers of which the blasto- derm is ultimately composed are believed to originate in a similar manner, though no direct observations have hitherto been made in mammalia which cover the whole period of the formation of the blastodermic mem- branes. But in both classes of ova they consist ultimately of three—the external, which used to be called the serous layer, but to which the term epiblast is now more commonly applied; the internal, the mucous layer, or hypoblast; and the middle, which is believed by most writers to be originally developed by cleavage from the hypoblast, and which is now usually called the mesohlast, formerly the vascular layer. The precise mode of formation of this middle layer is, however, by no means exactly made out. All the layers consist hitherto of nucleated cells, in which up to this time no special arrangement or differentiation is perceptible. Observations on the fowl's egg, however, have led Foster and Balfour to the conclusion that the cells of the epiblast are the direct results of segmentation from the original germ-cell, while those of the hypoblast and mesoblast are derived from certain ' formative cells ' which make their appearance in the yolk cavity, migrating into it by the help of amoeboid movements after the fashion of white blood-corpuscles. Fig. LXXII.—Section of a blastoderm at right angles to the long axis of the embryo, near its middle, after eight hours' incubation (from Foster and Balfour). A, epiblast formed of two layers of cells ; B, mesoblast thickened below the primitive groove; 0, hypoblast formed of one layer of flattened cells ; prf primitive groove; mc, mesoblast cell; bd, form- ative cells in the so-called segmentation or subgerminal cavity. (The line of separation between the epiblast and mesoblast below the primitive groove is too strongly marked in the figure.) The epiblast is mainly concerned in the formation of the external cuticle and of the nervous centres. From it proceed all the epidermis of the body and all the involutions of the epidermis in the ducts of the glands and of the mammae, the brain, the spinal cord, and the portions of the nose, eye, and ear which are directly formed from the brain. The external layer of the amnion is also formed from the epiblast, and probably a portion of the chorion. The hypoblast is mainly concerned in forming the internal epithelium, viz., that of the whole alimentary passages, except the mouth and a small portion of the rectum near the anus (which are formed by an invo- lution of the integument); that of the respiratory tract, which is originally an offset from the alimentary canal; and the epithelium of all the glandular organs which open into the internal tract. The hypoblast forms also the deeper layer of the umbilical vesicle and allantois. All the rest of the embryo is formed from the mesoblast, viz., all the vascular and locomotive system, the cutis, all the connective tissues, the A P* C.