623 THE SALIVARY GLANDS. single nucleus. These cells are supported by the basement membrane, on the other side of which the capillaries are distributed. Pfliiger describes the nerves as being directly continuous with the tissues of the alveoli, the nerve sometimes passing through a gan- glion-cell just before joining the alveolus (fig. 342 B). Through these cells the fibres of the nerve become directly attached to the salivary cells. The ducts which originate out of the alveoli are lined at their commencement by epithelium which differs little from the pavement type. As the ducts enlarge, the epithelial cells change to the columnar type, and they are described by Pfliiger as attached to the basement membrane by a brush of fine hair-like processes, which he believes to be continuous with the nerve- 343. —An Alveolus of a Compound Racemose Gland, injected from the Excretory Duct. (Highly magnified.) Hardly anything but the dark injecting fluid is shown; the alveolar cells and nuclei are only faintly indicated; those of the duct are not represented at all. The injec- tion is seen filling the central cavity of the alveolus, and passing from this in fine channels (represented by black reticulating lines) between and around the cells. (After Saviotti.) fibres. Other anatomists regard these cells as merely striated on their deep surface. The ducts not only spring directly from the alveoli, but also between the cells of the alveolus itself a fine branching network is found, which is either a lymphoid tissue continuous with the sheath of the duct, or a system of branching tubes by which the ducts commence between the salivary cells, as the biliary ducts are said to commence between the hepatic cells (see fig. 368, p. 654). The ducts have also diverti- cular passages lined with columnar epithelium, and it seems that the secretion goes on in these diverticula and in the wider portions of the ducts where the columnar epithelium exists as well as in the alveoli. In the submaxillary and sublingual glands, the lobes are larger and more loosely united than in the parotid. The secretion is watery, especially in the parotid gland, in the secreting cells of which it is said that no mucous globules are found, as they are in those of the other salivary glands. Its reaction is alkaline. The solids, which amount to about '6 in i,oco parts, are composed of a peculiar ferment,* called ptyalin (1^ part), epithelium and mucus (about 2 parts), salts, viz. sulphocyanide of potassium, phosphate and chloride of sodium, phosphate of lime, phosphate of magnesium, and chloride of potassium (over 2 parts), and a trace of fat. The uses of the saliva are to keep the mouth moist, and thus dissolve the sapid substances, to lubricate the food and make it into a mass fit for swallowing, and to convert the starch of the food into dextrine and grape sugar, the latter functions being due to the ptyalin, which can be proved to have this property when isolated. The nerves supplied to the salivary glands are branches of the Fifth, the Sympa- thetic, and the Facial. The respective functions of these nerves have been elucidated by dividing them in some of the lower animals and stimulating the cut ends. Thus in the dog when the submaxillary gland is operated on, the Chorda tympani having been exposed and stimulated, a great dilatation of the arteries takes place, the pulsation may be communicated to the veins, and there is a large flow of watery saliva. When the Chorda tympani is divided, the flow of saliva is arrested. If the * The student must recollect that a ferment is a body which initiates and propagates its action irrespective of the quantity of it which is present in the mixture. Thus a very minute portion of ptyalin will decompose a large quantity of starch.