AXILLARY. 37i its division into three portions : the first portion being that above the Pectoralis minor; the second portion, behind ; and the third below, that muscle. The first portion of the axillary artery is in relation, in front, with the cla- vicular portion of the Pectoralis major, the costo-coracoid membrane, the Sub- clavius, and the cephalic vein ; behind, with the first intercostal space, the corre- sponding Intercostal muscle, the first serration of the Serratus magnns, and the posterior thoracic nerve; on its outer side, with the brachial plexus, from which it is separated by a little cellular interval; on its inner, or thoracic side, with the axillary vein. Relations of the First Portion of the Axillary Artery. In front. Pectoralis major. Oostc-coracoid membrane. Subclavius. Cephalic vein. Outer side. j Axillary \ Inner side. • Aitery. Brachial plexus. \ First portion. ' Axillary vein. Behind. First Intercostal space, and intercostal muscle. First serration of Serratus magnus. Posterior thoracic nerve. The second portion of the axillary artery lies behind the Pectoralis minor. It is covered, in front, by the Pectoralis major and minor muscles ; behind, it is sepa- rated from the Subscapularis by a cellular interval; on the inner side is the axillary vein. The brachial plexus of nerves surrounds the artery, and separates it from direct contact with the vein and adjacent muscles. Relations of the Second Portion of the Axillary Artery. In front. Pectoralis major and minor. Outer side. I „ \ Inner side Outer cord of plexus. _ Artery. Axillary vein. \ &proiv 1 nortion. ; T -1 r> 1 Inner cord ot plexus. Behind. Subscapularis. Posterior cord of plexus. The third portion of the axillary artery lies below the Pectoralis minor- It is in relation, in front, with the lower part of the Pectoralis major above, being covered only by the integument and fascia below ; behind, with the lower part of the Subscapularis, and the tendons of the Latissimus dorsi and Teres major; on its outer side, with the Coraco-brachialis; on its inner, or thoracic side, with the axillary vein. The nerves of the brachial plexus bear the following relation to the artery in this part of its course: on the outer side is the median nerve, and the musculo-cutaneous for a short distance; on the inner side, the ulnar, the internal, and lesser internal cutaneous nerves; and behind, the musculo-spiral, and circum- flex, the latter extending only to the lower border of the Subscapularis muscle. B B 2