495 CEREBELLUM. optic tract. In this situation, the optic tract may be seen dividing into two bands, one of which is connected with the external geniculate body and nates, the other being connected with the internal geniculate body and testes. Structure of the cerebrum. The white matter of each hemisphere consists of three kinds of fibres : I. Diverging or peduncular fibres, which connect the hemisphere with the cord and medulla oblongata. 2. Transverse commissural fibres, which connect together the two hemispheres. 3. Longitudinal commissural fibres, which connect distant parts of the same hemisphere. The diverging or peduncular fibres consist of a main body, and of certain accessory fibres. The main body originate in the columns of the cord and medulla oblongata, and enter the cerebrum through the eras cerebri, where they are arranged into two bundles, separated by the locus niger. Those fibres which form the inferior or fasciculated portion of the eras, are derived from the anterior pyra- mid, and, ascending, pass mainly through the centre of the striate body ; those on the opposite surface of the crus, which form the tegmentum, are derived from the posterior pyramid and fasciculi teretes ; as they ascend, they pass, some through the under part of the thalamus, and others through both thalamus and corpus striatum, decussating in these bodies with each other, and with the fibres of the corpus callosum. The optic thalami also receive accessory fibres from the processus ad testes, the olivary fasciculus, the corpora quadrigemina, and corpora geniculata. Some of the diverging fibres end in the cerebral ganglia, whilst others pass through and receive additional fibres from them, and, as they emerge, radiate into the anterior, middle, and posterior lobes of the hemisphere, decussating again with the fibres of the corpus callosum, before passing to the convolutions. These fibres have received the name of corona radiata. The transverse commissural fibres connect together the two hemispheres across the middle line. They are formed by the corpus callosum, and the anterior and posterior commissures. The longitudinal commissural fibres connect together distant parts of the same hemisphere, the fibres being disposed in a longitudinal direction. They form the fornix, the taenia semicircularis, and peduncles of the pineal gland, the stria? longitudinales, the fibres of the gyrus fornicatus, and the fasciculus unciformis. The Cerebellum. The Cerebellum, or little brain, is that portion of the encephalon which is con- tained in the inferior occipital fossae. It is situated beneath the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, from which it is separated by the tentorium. Its average weight in the male is 5 ozs. 4 drs. It attains its maximum weight between the twenty-fifth and fortieth year; its increase in weight after the fourteenth year being relatively greater in the female than in the male. The proportion between the cerebellum and cerebrum is, in the male, as 1 to 8i; and in the female, as 1 to 8^. In the infant, the cerebellum is proportionally much smaller than in the adult, the relation between it and the cerebrum being, according to Chaussier, between 1 to 13, and 1 to 26; by Cruveilhier the proportion was found to be 1 to 20. In form, the cerebellum is oblong, and flattened from above downwards, its greater diameter being from side to side. It measures from three and a half to four inches trans- versely, and from two to two and a half inches from before backwards, being about two inches thick in the centre, and about six lines at the circumference, which is the thinnest part. It consists of grey and white matter : the former, darker than that of the cerebrum, occupies the surface; the latter, the interior. The surface of the cerebellum is not convoluted like the cerebrum, but traversed by numerous curved furrows or sulci, which vary in depth at different parts, and separate the lamina? of which its exterior is composed. Its upper surface (tig. 273) is somewhat elevated in the median line, and depressed towards its circumference; it consists of two lateral hemispheres, connected together by an elevated median portion or lobe, the superior vermiform process.