GENERAL ANATOMY. CXXXV111 which the nervous centres, the alimentary canal, the mouth, and the base of the skull are developed ; and that its development has some connection, as }Tet imperfectly understood, with that of these, or some of these, grea,t sections of the body. When the medullary groove is closed, the foetal spinal marrow at first occupies the whole of the canal so formed. It presents at first a large central canal, which gradually contracts, and in after life is no longer per- ceptible to the eye, though it is still visible on microscopic sections (v. p. lxxxii.). After the fourth month the spinal column begins to grow in length more rapidly than the medulla, so that the latter no longer occupies the whole canal. The ganglia and anterior roots of the nerves are percep- tible at the fourth week, the posterior roots at the sixth. The cord is composed at first entirely of uniform-looking cells, which soon separate into two layers, the inner of which forms the epithelium of the central canal, while the outer forms the central grey substance of the cord. The white columns are formed later; their rudiments can be detected about the fourth week, and some embryologists believe that they are developed from the mesoblast. The central canal of the spinal cord is at first Fig. LXXXVIIL—Section of the medulla iu the cervical region, at six weeks, magnified 50 diameters. I, central canal. 2, its epithelium. 3, anterior grey matter. 4, posterior grey matter. 5, anterior commissure. 6, posterior portion of the canal, closed by the epithelium only. 7, anterior column. 8, lateral column. 9, posterior column. io; anterior roots. 1j, posterior roots. unclosed behind, except by the epithelial layer, but at the age of nine weeks the medullary substance is united here also. The ganglia appear to be developed from the protovertebral discs, and it is possible that the pos- terior roots also are; the anterior roots proceed from the medulla itself.* The development of the nerves has not yet been followed. The sym- pathetic can be seen as a knotted cord at the end of the second month. The cerebral and spinal membranes are also, according to Kolliker, a production from the protovertebral discs, and are recognisable about the sixth week. As the fissures separating the parts of the cerebro-spinal axis appear, the membranes extend down them, and the pia mater passes into the cerebral ventricles. Bischoff, however, describes the pia mater * It is row believed, chiefly on the authority of Mr. Balfour's researches on the development of the elasmobranch fishes {Joum. of An at. and Phys.), that the whole of these parts are probably developed from the medullary groove, i.e. from the epiblast, though it is possible that the protovertebral discs (i.e. the mesoblast) may furnish the vessels and cellular tissue which are in connection with them. b