xciv GENERAL ANATOMY. coat is of great thickness, of a yellow colour, and highly elastic ; it diminishes in thickness and becomes redder in colour as the arteries become smaller; becomes very thin, and finally disappears. In small arteries, this coat is purely muscular, consisting of muscular fibre-cells (fig. XXXIII.), united to form lamellse which vary in number according to the size of the artery, the very small arteries having only a single layer, and those not larger than of a line in diameter, three or four layers. In arteries of medium size, this coat becomes thicker in proportion to the size of the vessel; its layers of muscular tissue are more numerous, and intermixed with numerous fine elastic fibres which unite to form broad- meshed networks. In the larger vessels, as the femoral, superior mesen- teric, coeliac axis, external iliac, brachial, and popliteal arteries, the elastic fibres unite to form lamelke, which alternate with the layers of muscular fibre. In the largest arteries, the muscular tissue is only slightly de- veloped, and forms about one-third or one fourth of the whole substance of the middle coat; this is especially the case in the aorta, and trunk of the pulmonary artery, in which the individual cells of the muscular layer are imperfectly formed; while in the carotid, axillary, iliac, and sub- clavian arteries, the muscular tissue of the middle coat is more developed. The elastic lamella? are well marked, may amount to fifty or sixty in number, and alternate regularly with the layers of muscular fibre. They are most distinct, and arranged with great regularity, in the abdominal aorta, innominate artery, and common carotid. The external coat consists mainly of connective tissue, and contains elastic fibres in all but the smallest arteries. In the largest vessels, the external coat is relatively thin ; but in small arteries, it is as thick, or thicker, than the middle coat. In arteries of the medium size, and above it, the external coat is formed of two layers, the outer of which consists of connective tissue, containing an irregular elastic network, while the inner is composed of elastic tissue only. The inner elastic layer is very distinct in the carotid, femoral, brachial, profunda, mesenteric and coeliac axis, the elastic fibres being often arranged in lamella. In the smaller arteries, the former layer of mixed connective tissue and elastic fibres composes the whole of the external tunic ; while in the smallest arteries, just above the capillaries, the elastic fibres are wanting, and the con- nective tissue of which the coat is composed becomes more homogeneous the nearer it approaches the capillaries, and is gradually reduced to a thin membranous envelope, which finally disappears. Some arteries have extremely thin coats in proportion to their size; this is especially the case in those situated in the cavity of the cranium and spinal canal, the difference depending on the greater thinness of the external and middle coats. The arteries, in their distribution throughout the body, are included in a thin areolo-fibrous investment, wddch forms what is called their sheath. In the limbs, this is usually formed by a prolongation of the deep fascia; in the upper part of the thigh, it consists of a continuation downwards of the transversal is and iliac fascioe of the abdomen; in the neck, of a prolongation of the deep cervical fascia. The included vessel is loosely connected with its sheath by a delicate areolar tissue ; and the sheath