CEREBRUM. 485 The deep longitudinal fibres are continued upwards, in two layers, one it from the lateral and posterior columns of the medulla and from the olivary [i fasciculus, these fibres consisting of some derived from the same, and others from I the opposite lateral tract of the medulla. More deeply, are finer fibres, mixed I with grey matter, derived from the cerebellum, blended with the former. I The cerebral surface of the crus cerebri is formed of these fibres, and is named the I tegmentum. The locus niger is a mass of grey matter, situated between the superficial and i deep layers of fibres above described. It is placed nearer the inner than the outer I side of the crus. The posterior lobes of the cerebrum are concealed from view by the upper I surface of the cerebellum, and pons Varolii. When these parts are removed, the I two hemispheres are seen to be separated by the great longitudinal fissure, this I fissure being interrupted, in front, by the posterior rounded border of the corpus I callosum. General Arrangement of the Parts composing the Cerebrum. As the peduncles of the cerebrum enter the hemispheres, they diverge from one another, so as to leave an interval between them, the interpeduncular space. As [ they ascend, the component fibres of each pass through two large masses of grey t matter, the ganglia of the brain, called the thalamus opticus and corpus striatum, which project as rounded eminences from the upper and inner side of each sj peduncle. The hemispheres are connected together, above these masses, by the II great transverse commissure, the corpus callosum, and the interval left between f| its under surface, the upper surface of the ganglia, and the parts closing the [ interpeduncular space, forms the general ventricular cavity. The upper part of I this cavity is subdivided into two by a vertical septum, the septum lucidum ; and I thus the two lateral ventricles are formed. The lower part of the cavity forms the If third ventricle, which communicates with the lateral ventricles above, and with 1 the fourth ventricle behind. The fifth ventricle is the interval left between the ]. two layers composing the septum lucidum. Interior of the Cerebrum. If the upper part of either hemisphere is removed with a scalpel, about half an inch above the level of the corpus callosum, its internal white matter will be exposed. It is au oval-shaped centre, of white substance, surrounded on all sides by a narrow convoluted margin of grey matter which presents an equal thickness j in nearly every part. This white central mass has been called the centrum ovale minus. Its surface is studded with numerous minute red dots (puncia vasculosa), produced by the escape of blood from divided blood-vessels. In inflammation or I great congestion of the brain, these are very numerous, and of a dark colour. If the remaining portion of one hemisphere is slightly separated from the other, a j broad band of white substance will be observed connecting them, at the bottom of the longitudinal fissure ; this is the corpus callosum. The margins of the hemi- spheres, which overlap this portion of the brain, are called the labia cerebri. Each labium is part of the convolution of the corpus callosum [gyrus fomicatus) already described ; and the space between it and the upper surface of the corpus callosum has been termed the ventricle of the corpus callosum (Fig. 270, 2). The hemispheres should now be sliced off, to a level with the corpus callosum, when the white substance of that structure will be seen connecting together both hemispheres. The large expanse of medullary matter now exposed, surrounded by the convoluted margin of grey substance, is called the centrum ovale majus of Yieussens. The corpus callosum is a thick stratum of transverse fibres, exposed at the bottom of the longitudinal fissure. It connects the two hemispheres of the brain, forming their great transverse commissure; and forms the roof of a space in the interior