cm THE SKIN. the former layer are the sensitive papillae; and within, or embedded beneath it, are the sweat-glands, hair-follicles, and sebaceous glands. The derma, or true shin, is tough, flexible, and highly elastic, in order to defend the internal parts from violence. It consists of fibro-areolar tissue, intermixed with numerous blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves. The fibro-areolar tissue forms the framework of the cutis ; it is composed of firm interlacing bundles of white fibrous tissue, intermixed with a much smaller proportion of yellow elastic fibres, the amount of which varies in different parts. The fibro-areolar tissue is more abundant in the deeper layers of the cutis, where it is dense and firm, the meshes being large, and gradually becoming blended with the subcutaneous areolar tissue; towards the surface, the fibres become finer and more closely interlaced, the most superficial layer being covered with numerous small conical vascular eminences, the papillae. From these differences in the structure of the cutis at different parts, it is usual to describe it as consisting of two layers : the deeper la}rer or corium, and the superficial or papillary layer. The corium consists of strong interlacing fibrous bands, composed chiefly of the white variety of fibrous tissue; but containing, also, some fibres of the yellow elastic tissue, which vary in amount in different parts. Towards the attached surface, the fasciculi are large and coarse; and the areolae which are left by their interlacement are large, and occupied by adipose tissue and the sweat-glands. This element of the skin becomes gradually blended with the subcutaneous areolar tissue. Towards the free surface, the fasciculi are much finer, and they have a close interlacing, the most superficial layers consisting of a transparent, homogeneous matrix, with embedded nuclei. The corium varies in thickness, from a quarter of a line to a line and a half, in different parts of the body. Thus, it is thicker in the regions exposed to pressure, as the palm of the hand and sole of the foot; thicker on the posterior aspect of the body, than the front; and on the outer, than the inner side of the limbs. In the eyelids, scrotum, and penis, it is ex- ceedingly thin and delicate. The skin generally is thicker in the male than in the female, and in the adult than in the child. The areolce are occupied by adipose tissue, hair-follicles, and the sudo- riferous and sebaceous glands ; they are the channels by which the vessels and nerves are distributed to the more superficial strata of the corium, and to the papillary layer. Unstriped muscular fibres are found in the superficial layers of the corium, wherever hairs are found; and in the subcutaneous areolar tissue of the scrotum, penis, perinaeum, and areolae of the nipples. In the latter situations the fibres are arranged in bands, closely reticulated, and dis- posed in superimposed laminae. The papillary layer is situated upon the free surface of the corium ; it consists of numerous small, highly sensitive, and vascular eminences, the papillae, which rise perpendicularly from its surface, and form the essential element of the organ of touch. The papillae are conical-shaped eminences, having a round or blunted extremity, occasionally divided into two or more parts, and connected by their base with the free surface of the corium. Their average length is about Yl^th. of an inch, and they