ORGANS OF SENSE. 5ยง4 The blood-vessels do not form a distinct layer ; they ramify in the substance of the internal layer, extending, however, as far as the internal granular stratum of the middle layer. The external, or Jacob's membrane, is exceedingly thin, and can be detached from the external surface of the retina by the handle of the scalpel, in the form of a flocculent film. It is thicker behind than in front, and consists of rod-like bodies of two kinds: i. Columnar rods, solid, nearly of uniform size, and arranged perpendicularly to the surface. 2. Bulbous 'particles, or cones, which are interspersed at regular intervals among the former; these are conical or flask-shaped, their broad ends resting upon the membrana limitans externa, the narrow pointed extremity being turned towards the choroid; they are not solid, like the columnar rods, but consist of an external membrane, with fluid contents. By their deep ends, both kinds are joined* to the fibres of Miiller. The layer of the rods and cones is sepa- rated from the granular layer of the retina by a transparent structureless cribriform membrane, the membrana limitans externa. 313- 3H- Vertical sections of the human retina. Fig. 313, half an inch from the entrance of the optic nerve. Fig. 314, close to the latter. 1. Layer of rods and cones (columnar layer), bounded underneath by the Membrana limitans externa. 2. External granular layer. 3. Intergranular layer. 4. Internal granular layer. 5. Molecular layer. 6. Layer of the ganglion-cells. 7. Expansion of "optic fibres. 8. Sustentacular fibres of Miiller. 9. Their attachment to the membrana limitans interna. The middle or granular layer forms about one-third of the entire thickness of the retina. It consists of two lamina? of rounded or oval nuclear particles, sepa- rated from each other by an intermediate (intergranular) lamina, which is trans- parent, finely fibrillated, and contains no blood-vessels. The outermost lamina is the thicker, and its constituent particles are globular. These particles are in con- nection with the bases of the rods and cones by fibres passing through the mem- brana limitans externa, and are therefore divided into * rod-granules' and ' cone- granules.' The innermost lamina is the thinner; its component particles are flattened, looking like pieces of money seen edgeways; hence it has been called, by Bowman, the nummular layer. Examined more closely these cells are seen to be bipolar, i.e. each sends off a fine process outwards through the intergranular layer, and another inwards through the molecular layer to reach the expansion of the optic nerve. The internal or nervous layer is a thin semitransparent membrane, consisting essentially of an expansion of the terminal fibres of the optic nerve and nerve-cells. This layer is subdivided into three. The most external is the molecular, or finely