556 SPINAL NERVES. these branches accompany the superior and inferior internal articular arteries; and a third, the azygos. The muscular branches, four or five in number, arise from the nerve as it lies between the two heads of the Gastrocnemius muscle; they supply that muscle, the Piantaris, Soleus, and Popliteus. The nerves which supply the Popliteus turn round its lower border and are distributed to its deep surface. The external or short saphenous nerve (fig. 297) descends between the two heads of the Gastrocnemius muscle, and, about the middle of the back of the leg, pierces the deep fascia, and receives a communicating branch (communicans peronei) from the external popliteal nerve. The nerve then continues its course down the leg near the outer margin of the tendo Achillis, in company with the external saphenous vein, winds round the outer malleolus, and is distributed to the integument along the outer side of the foot and little toe, communicating on the dorsum of the foot with the musculo-cutaneous nerve. In the leg, its branches communicate with those of the small sciatic. The posterior tibial nerve (fig. 298) commences at the lower border of the Pop- liteus muscle, and passes along the back part of the leg with the posterior tibial vessels to the interval between the inner malleolus and the heel, where it divides into the external and internal plantar nerves. It lies upon the deep muscles of the leg, and is covered by the deep fascia, the superficial muscles, and integument. In the upper part of its course, it lies to the inner side of the posterior tibial artery : but it soon crosses that vessel, and lies to its outer side as far as the ankle. In the lower third of the leg, it is placed parallel with the inner margin of the tendo Achillis. 299. -The Plantar Nerves. The branches of the posterior tibial nerve are muscular and plantar-cutaneous. The muscular brandies arise either separately or by a common trunk from the upper part of the nerve. They supply the Tibialis posticus, Flexor longus digitorum, and Flexor longus pollicis muscles; the branch to the latter muscle accompanying the peroneal artery. The plantar cutaneous branch, perfo- rates the internal annular ligament, and supplies the integument of the heel and inner side of the sole of the foot. The internal plantar nerve (fig. 299), the larger of the two terminal branches of the posterior tibial, accompanies the inter- nal plantar artery along the inner side of the foot. From its origin at the inner ankle it passes forwards between the Abductor pollicis and Flexor brevis digi- torum, divides opposite the bases of the metatarsal bones into four digital branches, and communicates with the external plan- tar nerve. Branches. In its course, the internal plantar nerve gives off cutaneous branches which pierce the plantar fascia, and supply the integument of the sole of the foot; muscular branches, which supply the Abductor pollicis and Flexor brevis digitorum; articular branches to the articulations of the tarsus and metatarsus; and four digital branches. These pierce the plantar fascia in the clefts between the toes, and are dis- tributed in the following manner : The first supplies the inner border of the great toe, and sends a filament to the Flexor brevis pollicis muscle; the second bifurcates, to