cl GENERAL ANATOMY. Development of the respiratory organs.—The lungs appear somewhat later than the liver. They are developed from a small cul-de-sac, which is formed on either side as a projection from the epithelial and fibrous laminae of the intestine. During the fourth week these depressions are found on either side, opening- freely into the pharynx, and from the original pouches other secondary pouches are given off, so that by the eighth week the form of the lobes of the lungs may be made out. The two primary pouches have a common pedicle of communication with the pharynx. This is developed into the trachea (fig. XCII. B.), the cartilaginous rings of which are perceptible about the seventh week. The parts which after- wards form the larynx are recognised as early as the sixth week, viz.: a projection on either side of the pharyngeal opening, the rudiment of the arytenoid cartilages, and a transverse elevation from the third pharyngeal arch, which afterwards becomes the epiglottis: the vocal cords and ventricles of the larynx are seen about the fourth month. The traces of the diaphragm appear early, in the form of a fine membrane, separating the lungs from the Wolffian bodies, the stomach and liver. As the dia- phragm extends forwards from the vertebral column, with the muscular plates of which its development is probably connected, it separates the common pleuro-peritoneal cavity into two parts, a thoracic and abdominal. The membrane which lines this common cavity has been traced, above, as derived from the splanchnopleure, with an epithelial lining of hypo- blast. Development of the genito-urinary organs.—The internal genito-urinary organs appear to be entirely of mesoblastic origin, and perhaps the easiest way of rendering their formation intelligible is to commence with the description of the Wolffian body. The Wolffian body, or primordial kidney, is perceptible about the third week, forming a mass of cells which soon give rise to a hollow organ, Fig. XOVI.—Enlarged view from before of the left Wolffian body before the establishment of the distinction of sex (from Farre after Kobelt). a, a, b, d, tubular structure of the Wolffian body ; e, Wolffian duct; /, its upper extremity ; y, its termination in x, the j urogenital sinus; h, the duct of Miiiler ; i, its upper still closed extremity ; k, its lower end terminating in the urogenital sinus; I, the mass of blastema for the reproductive organ, ovary, or testicle. situated on either side of the primitive vertebras, and extending from the heart to the lower end of the embryo, terminating above in a cul-de-sac and opening below into the urogenital sinus. The structure of the Wolffian body is in many respects analogous to that of the permanent kidney. It is composed partly of an excretory canal or duct, into which open ,