702 ORGANS OF VOICE AND RESPIRATION. intestine, and other parts, except that they are usually described as containing a central cavity, which is, in fact, a diverticulum from the general cavity of the gland. By many observers, however, both the cavity of the acini and the general cavity are regarded as the effect of post-mortem changes. External to this central cavity with its chylelike contents lie the capillary vessels of the acinus, embedded in a large quantity of lymphoid tissue. The elements which are found in the acini are chiefly granular free nuclei (a), lymphoid cells (b), larger cells, some of them many-nucleated, and often undergoing fatty degeneration (d, e, f), and peculiar encapsulated bodies, some of them merely the foregoing cells surrounded by con- 396. 1. Upper portion of the thymus of a foetal pig of 2" in length, showing the bud-like lobuli and glandular elements. 2. Cells of the thymus, mostly from man ; a, free nuclei ; b, small cells ; c, larger ; d, larger with oil-globules, from the ox; e, /, cells completely filled with fat, at/ without a nucleus; g, h, concentric bodies; g, an encapsulated nucleated cell; h, a composite structure of a similar nature. centric layers (g), others consisting of an assemblage of the former enclosed in a kind of nest, like the ' bird-nest cells' found in epithelioma. Vessels and Nerves. The arteries supplying the thymus are derived from the internal mammary, and from the superior and inferior thyroid. The veins termi- nate in the left vena innominata, and in the thyroid veins. The lymphatics are of large size, arise in the substance of the gland, and are said to terminate in the internal jugular vein. Sir A. Cooper believed that these vessels carried into the blood the secretion formed in the substance of the thymus. The nerves are exceedingly minute; they are derived from the pneumogastric and sympathetic. Branches from the descendens noni and phrenic reach the investing capsule, but do not penetrate into the substance of the gland. Chemical Composition. The solid animal constituents of the thymus are albumen and fibrine in large quantities, gelatine, and other animal matters. The salts are alkaline and earthy phosphates, with chloride of potassium. It contains about 80 per cent, of water.