ORGANS OF SENSE. 604 Reissner and the membrana tectoria, which contains no object for description, while the space lying between the membrana tectoria and membrana basilaris is described by itself as a fourth canal—the ductus cochlearis or ductus auditorius.* The latter is the space in which the organ of Corti j is contained. This organ (fig. 326) is situated upon the membrana basilaris, and appears at first sight as a papilla, winding spirally with the turns of this membrane throughout the whole length of the cochlea, from which circumstance it has been designated the papilla spiralis. More accu- rately viewed, it is seen to be composed of a series of arches roofing over the zona arcuata, estimated at over 3,000 in number. The base of these arches is said to be of uniform length in the whole of the canal. The inner limb of the arch is formed by a fibre (internal fibres or rods of Corti) somewhat swollen at either extremity. In connection with the lower extremity is a nuclear body. The space between the internal rod and the grooved margin of the sulcus spiralis is occupied by cylindrical epithelium, and some of these epithelial cells are provided with hair-like processes ('inner hair-cells'). The external limb of the arch is formed by a similar series of fibres (external fibres or rods of Corti) which are less numerous than the internal, J and the swollen upper extremities of the two rods are articulated together; the crown of the arch approaches, but does not touch, the membrana tectoria. The shape of the external and internal rods of Corti is peculiar. The internal rods ter- minate above in a process which exactly reproduces the shape of the head of the human ulna, with its sigmoid cavity, coronoid and olecranon processes, while the ex- ternal represent the head and bill of a swan—the head fitting into the concavities of one or more of the internal rods (which are more numerous than the external) while the bill rests against the phalanges of the lamina reticularis. Lying against the ex- 326.—Floor of Seala Media, showing the organ of Corti, &c. ternal rods are epithelial cells of various forms. Those described by Corti, and called after him cells of Corti, are provided with hairs or cilia, 1 outer hair-cells.' There are several rows of these, alternating with which are other epithelial cells terminating in a fine extremity above and below : these are called the cells of Betters ; and beyond these again are the ordinary epithelial cells of the part, gradually diminishing in size. The reticular lamina of Kolliker is formed by several rows of ' minute fiddle-shaped cuticular structures ' called phalanges, between which are holes for the projection of the outer hair-cells. The number of rows varies in different animals with that of the outer hair-cells, being four in man. The exact termination of the nerves in the * In reading the older descriptions of the organ of hearing, the student must hear in mind that the membranes hounding the ductus auditorius, together with the organ contained between them, were described together as the 'lamina spiralis memhranacea,' while the membrane of Reissner was not recognised, the parts being, in fact, as shown in the second turn of the cochlea on the right hand of fig. 325. t Corti's original paper is in the Zeitschrift f. Wissen. Zool. iii. 109. X Waldeyer reckons 6,000 of the inner rods and 4,500 of the outer in the human cochlea. Claudius says that there are three of the inner for every two of the outer.