38 THE SKELETON. 36.—Sphenoid Bone. Posterior Surface. The Pterygoid processes (irrepvli, a wing; sldog, likeness) (fig. 36), one on eacl side, descend perpendicularly from the point where the body and great winj unite. Each process consists of an external and an internal plate, separa" behind by an intervening notch,—the pterygoid fossa ; but joined partially in front. The external pterygoid plate is broad and thin, turned a little outwards, and forms part of the inner wall of the zygomatic fossa. It gives at- tachment, by its outer sur- face, to the External ptery- goid ; its inner surface forms part of the pterygoid fossa, and gives attachment to the Internal pterygoid. The in- ternal pterygoid plate is much narrower and longer, curving outwards, at its extremity, into a hook-like process of bone, the hamular process, around which turns the tendon of the Tensor palat muscle. At the base of this plate is a small, oval, shallow depression, the scaphoit fossa, from which arises the Tensor palati, and above which is seen the posterio orifice of the Vidian canal. The outer surface of this plate forms part of th. pterygoid fossa, the inner surface forming the outer boundary of the posterio aperture of the nares. The Superior constrictor of the pharynx is attached to it posterior edge. The two pterygoid plates are separated below by an angula interval, in which the pterygoid process, or tuberosity, of the palate bone i| received. The anterior surface of the pterygoid process is very broad at it base, and forms the posterior wall of the spheno-maxillary fossa. It support,^ Meckel's ganglion. It presents, above, the anterior orifice of the Vidian canal1 and below, a rough margin, which articulates with the perpendicular plate of th palate bone. The Sphenoidal Spongy Bones are two thin curved plates of bone, which exis as separate pieces until puberty, and occasionally are not joined to the sphenoid i the adult. They are situated at the anterior and inferior part of the body of th! sphenoid, an aperture of variable size being left in their anterior wall, throug which the sphenoidal sinuses open into the nasal fossa?. They are irregular in forir and taper to a point behind, being broader and thinner in front. Their inne surface, which looks towards the cavity of the sinus, is concave; their oute surface convex. Each bone articulates in front with the ethmoid, externally witi the palate ; behind, its point is placed above the vomer, and is received bet wee: the root of the pterygoid process on the outer side, and the rostrum of the sphenoi on the inner. Development. The sphenoid bone is developed by ten centres, six for the pos- terior sphenoidal division, and four for the anterior sphenoid. The six centres for the posterior sphenoid are—one for each greater wing and external pterygoid plate; one for each internal pterygoid plate; two for the posterior part of the body. The four for the anterior sphenoid are, one for each lesser wing and anterior part of the body, and one for each sphenoi- dal turbinated bone. Ossification takes 37- -Plan of the Development of Sphenoic! By Four Centres. / Jot each lesser xmncf IcAjil'jjart of bo Ifcreaci JSplicnoidal turbinated bone