THE SUPRARENAL CAPSULES. 711 and inwards across that cavity to the base of the bladder, into which it then opens by a constricted orifice, after having passed obliquely for nearly an inch between its muscular and mucous coats. Relations of the ureter proper. In its course it rests upon the psoas muscle, being covered by the peritoneum, and crossed obliquely, from within outwards, by the spermatic vessels ; the right ureter lying close to the outer side of the inferior vena cava. Opposite the first piece of the sacrum it crosses the common iliac artery, lying behind the ileum on the right side and the sigmoid flexure of the colon on the left. In the pelvis it enters the posterior false ligament of the bladder, below the obliterated hypogastric artery, the vas deferens in the male passing between it and the bladder. In the female the ureter passes along the sides and cervix uteri and upper part of the vagina. At the base of the bladder, it is situated about two inches from its fellow ; lying, in the male, about an inch and a half behind the base of the prostate, at the posterior angle of the trigone. Structure. The ureter is composed of three coats, a fibrous, muscular, and mucous. The fibrous coat is the same throughout the entire length of the duct, being con- tinuous at one end with the capsule of the kidney at the floor of the sinus • whilst at the other it is lost in the fibrous structure of the bladder. The muscular coat consists of tivo layers in the calices and pelvis, but of three in I the ureter proper. The external or longitudinal fibres of the calices are lost upon the sides of the mamillse, whilst the internal or circular serve to grasp the medullary structure in the same situation. The three layers found in the ureter proper (two longitudinal with an intervening circular layer) are all continuous with the muscular fibres of the bladder. The mucous coat is smooth and presents a few longitudinal folds which become effaced by distension. It is continuous with the mucous membrane of the bladder below, whilst it is prolonged over the mamillaj of the kidney above. Its epithelium consists principally of the spheroidal variety, but at that portion of the ureter near the bladder it is said to be divided into three layers. The inner layer, that in contact with the urine, is irregular or quadrilateral in shape; the second or intermediate layer more or less resembles columnar epithelium with irregular extremities; whilst the external or third layer is more or less spheroidal. The arteries supplying the ureter are branches from the renal, spermatic, internal iliac, and inferior vesical. The nerves are derived from the inferior mesenteric, spermatic, and hypogastric plexuses. Suprarenal Capsules. The suprarenal capsules are usually classified together with the spleen, thymus and thyroid, under the head of ' ductless glands,' as they have no excretory duct. They are two small flattened glandular bodies, of a yellowish colour, situated at the back part of the abdomen, behind the peritoneum, and immediately in front of the upper part of either kidney ; hence their name. The right one is somewhat trian- gular in shape, bearing a resemblance to a cocked hat; the left is more semilunar, and usually larger and higher than the right. They vary in size in different indi- viduals, being sometimes so small as to be scarcely detected; their usual size is from an inch and a quarter to nearly two inches in length, rather less in width, and from two to three lines in thickness. In weight, they vary from one to two drachms. Relations. The anterior surface is in relation, on the right side, with the under surface of the liver; and on the left, with the pancreas and spleen. The posterior surface rests upon the cms of the Diaphragm, opposite the tenth dorsal vertebra. The upper thin convex border is directed upwards and inwards. The lower thick concave border rests upon the upper end of the kidney, to which it is connected by areolar tissue. The inner border is in relation with the great splanchnic