DEVELOPMENT OF BONE. Ixiii vertex of the skull are entirely formed. In the bones which are so de- veloped no cartilaginous mould precedes the appearance of the bone- tissue. The process, though pointed out originally by Dr. Nesbitt in the year 1736, was first accurately described by Dr. Sharpey; and it does not appear that subsequent observers have been able to add anything essential to his description. This is, substantially, as follows :—In the membrane which occupies the place of the future bone a little network of bony spiculse is first noticed, radiating from the point of ossification. When these rays of growing bone are ex- amined by the microscope, there is found a network of fine clear fibres (osteogenic fibres), which become dark and granular from calcification, and as they calcify they are found to enclose in their interior large gra- nular corpuscles or £ osteoblasts.' These corpuscles at first lie upon the osteogenic fibres so that the cor- puscles must be removed by brushing the specimen with a hair-pencil in order to render the fibres clear; but they gradually sink into areolse developed among the fibres. The areola? appear to be the rudiments of the laeume, the passages between the osteoblasts are the rudiments of the in thickness vessels shoot into it, from the parietal bone of a human embryo thirteen weeks old (after Gegenbauer). a, bony septa with the cells of the lacunae, b, layers of osteoblasts, c, the latter in transition to bone-corpuscles. the fibres form the canaliculi, and bone-cells. As the tissue increases grooving for themselves spaces or channels, which become the Haversian canals. Thus the intra-membranous and intra-cartilaginous processes of ossification are similar in their more essential features. The subperiosteal is a form of the intra-membranous process of ossifi- cation. The period of ossification is different in different bones. The order of succession may be thus arranged (Kolliker) :— In the second month, first, in the clavicle and lower jaw (fifth to seventh week) ; then, in the vertebras, humerus, femur, the ribs, and the cartila- ginous portion of the occipital bone. At the end of the second, and commencement of the third month, the frontal bone, the scapula, the bones of the fore-arm and leg, and upper jaw make their appearance. In the third month, the remaining cranial bones, with few exceptions, the metatarsus, the metacarpus, and the phalanges, begin to ossify. In the fourth month, the iliac bones, and the ossicula auditus. In the fourth or fifth month, the ethmoid, sternum, os pubis, and ischium. From the sixth to the seventh month, the calcaneum and astragalus. In the eight month, the hyoid bone. At birth, the epiphyses of all the cylindrical bones, with the exception of the lower epiphyses of the femur, and occasionally the upper epiphysis