cliv GENERAL ANATOMY. 6 the genital cord,' in which the two Miillerian ducts approach each other, lying' side by side, and finally coalescing- to form the cavity of the vagina and uterus. This coalescence commences in the middle, corresponding to Fig-. XCIX.—Female genital organs of the embryo, with the remains of the Wolffian bodies (after J. Miiller). A, from a fcetal sheep ; a, the kidneys; b, the ureters ; c, the ovaries; d, remains of Wolffian bodies; e, Fallopian tubes ; f, their abdominal openings ; g, their union in the body of the uterus. B, more advanced from a foetal deer ; a, body of the uterus; b, cornua; c, tubes; d, ovaries; e, remains of Wolffian bodies. 0, still more advanced from the human foetus of three months ; a, the body of the uterus ; b, the round ligament; c, the Fallopian tubes ; d, the ovaries ; e, remains of the Wolffian bodies. A the body of the uterus. The upper parts of the Miillerian ducts in the genital cord constitute the cornua of the uterus, little developed in the human species. The only remains of the Wolffian body consist in the organ of Rosenmuller. About the fifth month an annular constriction marks the position of the neck of the uterus, and after the sixth month the walls of the uterus begin to thicken. The round ligament is derived from the lumbar ligament of the Wolffian body, the peritoneum constitutes the broad ligaments, the superior liga- ment of the Wolffian body disappears with that structure. Male organs.—The testicles are developed from the intermediate cell- mass (genital gland of the older embryologists) behind and to the inside of the Wolffian bodies, from which the essential parts of the gland, the tubuli seminiferi, and their contents take origin. The tubuli seminiferi are early visible, being at first short and straight, and then gradually assume a coiled arrangement. The tunica albnginea is formed about the third month. The Miillerian ducts disaj)pear in the male sex, with the exception of their lower ends. These unite in the middle line, and open by a com- mon orifice into the urogenital sinus. This constitutes the tdriculus hominis or sinus prostaticus. Occasionally, however, the upper end of the duct of Miiller remains visible in the male as it does in the female, con- stituting the little pedunculated body, called the hydatid of Morgagni,