GENEEAL ANATOMY. lii ginous plates, of a round, oval, or sickle-like form, interposed between the articular cartilages of certain joints. They are free on both surfaces, thinner towards their centre than at their circumference, and held in position by their extremities being connected to the surrounding ligaments. The synovial membrane of the joint is prolonged over them a short distance from their attached margin. They are found in the temporo-maxillary, sterno-clavicular, acromio-clavicular, wrist and knee-joints. These car- tilages are usually found in those joints which are most exposed to violent concussions, and subject to frequent movement. Their use is—to maintain the apposition of the opposed surfaces in their various motions ; to increase the depth of the articular surface, and give ease to the gliding movement; to moderate the effects of great pressure, and deaden the intensity of the shocks to which the parts may be submitted. Virchow describes in the semilunar cartilages of the knee a system of anastomosing tubes, formed by cells which communicate with each other, and by means of which the nutritious fluids are conveyed into the interior of the mass. The semi- lunar discs, according to this author, are wrongly denominated cartilages, since they yield no chondrine on boiling ; and he appears to regard them as a modification of a tendinous structure, which, however, agrees with the cartilages in the important particular of being non-vascular. See Yirchow's ' Cellular Pathology,' by Chance, pp. 87-89. Fig. XVII.—Yellow cartilage, ear of horse. Hig-li power. The connecting fibro-cartilages are interposed between the bony surfaces of those joints which admit of only slight mobility, as between the bodies of the vertebrse and the pubic symphyses; they form discs, which adhere closely to both of the opposed bones, and are composed of concentric rings of fibrous tissue, with cartilaginous laminae interposed, the former tissue predominating towards the circumference, the latter towards the centre. The circumferential fibro-cartilages consist of a rim of fibro-cartilage, which surrounds the margin of some of the articular cavities, as the cotyloid cavity of the hip, and the glenoid cavity of the shoulder; they serve to deepen the articular surface and to protect the edges of the bone. The stratiform fibro-cartilages are those which form a thin layer in the osseous grooves, through which the tendons of certain muscles glide.