626 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. mation and ulceration of the oesophagus may ensue. In one case the foreign body ultimately penetrated the intervertebral substance, and destroyed life by inflammation of the membranes and substance of the cord. The operation of oesophagotomy is thus performed. The patient being placed upon his back, with the head and shoulders slightly elevated, an incision, about four inches in length, should be made on the left side of the trachea, from the thyroid cartilage downwards, dividing the skin and Platysma. The edges of the wound being separated, the Omo-hyoid muscle, and the fibres of the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, must be drawn inwards ; the sheath of the carotid vessels being exposed, should be drawn outwards, and retained in that position by retractors: the oesophagus will then be exposed, and should be divided over the foreign body, which should then be removed. Great care is necessary to avoid wounding the thyroid vessels, the thyroid gland, and the laryngeal nerves. Structure. The oesophagus lias three coats : an external, or muscular; a middle, or cellular; and an internal, or mucous coat. The muscular coat is composed of two planes of fibres of considerable thickness, an external longitudinal, and an internal circular. The longitudinal fibres are arranged at the commencement of the tube, in three fasciculi : one in front, which is attached to the vertical ridge on the posterior sur- face of the cricoid cartilage ; and one at each side, which are continuous with the fibres of the Inferior constrictor; as they descend they blend together, and form a uniform layer, which covers the outer surface of the tube. The circular fibres are continuous above with the Inferior constrictor; their direction is transverse at the upper and lower parts of the tube, but oblique in the central part.* The muscular fibres in the upper part of the oesophagus are of a red colour, and consist chiefly of the striped variety ; but below, they consist entirely of the invo- luntary muscular fibre. The cellular coat connects loosely the mucous and muscular coats. The mucous coat is thick, of a reddish colour above, and pale below. It is dis- posed in longitudinal folds, which disappear on distension of the tube. Its surface is studded with minute papilla?, and it is covered throughout with a thick layer of squamous epithelium. The cesophageal glands are numerous small compound glands, scattered through- out the tube; they are lodged in the submucous tissue, and open upon the surface by a long excretory duct. They are most numerous at the lower part of the tube, where they form a ring round the cardiac orifice. The Abdomen. The Abdomen is the largest cavity in the body, and is separated, below, from the pelvic cavity by the brim of the pelvis. It is of an oval form, the extremities of the oval being directed upwards and downwards; it is wider above than below, and measures more in the vertical than in the transverse diameter. Boundaries. It is bounded, in front and at the sides, by the lower ribs, the Transversalis muscle, and the venter ilii; behind, by the vertebral column, and the Psoas and Quadratus lumborum muscles; above, by the Diaphragm ; below, by the brim of the pelvis. The muscles forming the boundaries of the cavities are lined upon their inner surface by a layer of fascia, differently arranged according to the part to which it is attached. The abdomen contains the greater part of the alimentary canal; some of the accessory organs to digestion, viz. the liver, pancreas, and spleen ; and the kidneys and suprarenal capsules. Most of these structures, as well as the wall of the cavity * Accessory slips of muscular fibres are described by Dr. Cunningham as passing between the oesophagus and the pleura, where it covers the thoracic aorta (almost always), or the root of the left bronchus (usually), or the back of the pericardium, or corner of the mediastinum (more rarely), as well as other still more rare accessory fibres.—{Journal of Anat. and Phys. vol. x. p. 320.)