662 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. attached. The blood-vessels ramifying on the surface of the corpuscles, consist of the larger ramifications of the arteries to which the sacculus is connected; and also of a delicate capillary plexus, similar to that surrounding the vesicles of other glands. These vesicles have also a close relation with the veins (fig. 374). The latter vessels, which are of considerable size even at their origin, commence on the surface of each vesicle throughout the whole of its circumference, forming a dense mesh of veins, in which the Malpighian corpuscle is enclosed. It is probable, that from the blood contained in the capillary network, the material is separated which is occa- sionally stored up in the cavity of the corpuscle; the veins being so placed as to carry off, under certain conditions, those contents to be discharged again into the circulation. Each capsule contains a soft, white, semi-fluid substance, consisting of granular matter, nuclei similar to those found in the pulp, and a few nucleated cells, the composition of which is apparently albuminous. These bodies are very large after digestion is completed, in well-fed animals, and especially in those fed upon albuminous diet. In starved animals, they disappear altogether. The minute arteries and veins are enclosed in a sheath derived from the capsule of the spleen, and containing, according to some anatomists, unstriped muscular fibres. The layers of this sheath (consisting of white fibrous and elastic tissue) are per- 375.—Pa* of a Malpighian Capsule meated by lymphoid corpuscles. This lym- phoid tissue gives rise to the Malpighian bodies, which are indeed mere localised ex- pansions of the lymphoid sheaths of the arteries in places where the meshes of the net- work are wider.* The sheaths of the veins are derived from the capsule, which forms an elastic tube (containing muscular fibres, ac- cording to some authors) around the proper walls of the vessel. W. Miiller describes processes from the trabeculse which pass into the sheaths of the veins, and serve to keep them open somewhat as the cerebral sinuses are kept patent by the dura mater. The splenic artery is remarkable for its large size, in proportion to the size of the organ; and also for its tortuous course. It divides into from four to six branches, which enter the hilum of the organ and ramify throughout its substance (fig. 376), receiving sheaths from an involution of the external fibrous tunic, the same sheaths also investing the nerves and veins. Each branch runs in the transverse axis of the organ, from within outwards, diminishing in size during its transit, and giving off, in its passage, smaller branches, some of which pass to the anterior, others to the posterior part; these ultimately terminate in the proper substance of the spleen, in small tufts or pencils of capillary vessels, which lie in direct contact with the pulp. Each of the larger branches of the arteries supplies chiefly that region of the organ in which the branch ramifies, having no anastomosis with the majority of the other branches. The capillaries, supported by the minute trabeculse, traverse the pulp in all directions, and terminate either directly in the veins, or open into lacunar spaces, from which the veins originate. The veins are of large size, as compared with the size of the organ ; and their distribution is limited, like that of the arteries, to the supply of a particular part of the gland; they are much larger and more numerous than the arteries. They * ' The parenchyma of the Malpighian bodies is formed of cells and a retiform intermediate substance ; the cells agree in their characters with the lymph-corpuscles of the several animals, and they are constantly found in various stages of development.'—W. Muller, in Strieker's ' Handbook.' of the Spleen of Man. (Klein and Noble Smith.) a. Arterial branch in longitudinal section, b. Ade- noid tissue, still containing the lymph-corpus- cles ; only their nuclei are shown, c. Adenoid reticulum, the lymph - corpuscles accidentally removed.