xxxix THE BLOOD. The human white corpuscles are rather larger than the red, and have an irregular or granular surface. According to Klein, however, there are, in every specimen of blood some white corpuscles which are smaller than the red. A nucleus becomes perceptible on the addition of acetic acid. They are very similar to, if not identical with, the corpuscles of the lymph and chyle, though somewhat more acted upon by acetic acid than the latter. Their proportion appears to vary considerably in different parts of the circulation, being much larger in the blood of the splenic vein and hepatic vein than in other parts of the body, while in the splenic artery they are very scanty. The colourless corpuscles bear a strong resemblance also to the cells found in pus. It is wrell known that these colourless corpuscles Fig-. II.—a, white corpuscles of human blood ; d, red corpuscles. High power. 9 mB # 1 a have the remarkable properties of locomotion and of 6 amoeboid' changes, so that, examined during life, they may show various shapes. No limit- ing membrane is believed to exist in the colourless corpuscles, which consist of a transparent albuminous substance called protoplasm. Fig. III.—Human colourless blood-corpuscle, showing its successive changes of outline within ten minutes when kept moist on a warm stage (Schofield). t «j € Is 1 From the fact that cells exactly like the colourless corpuscles are being constantly furnished to the blood by the ducts of the lymphatic glands, the chyle-ducts (and even the liver in the foetus), and also from their varying proportion in different parts of the circulation, and in different pathological conditions, the colourless corpuscles are usually regarded, —with, at any rate, considerable probability,—as an earlier stage of the coloured blood-discs. Fat-granules are seen in the blood of the lower animals, and occasionally in the blood of pregnant women ; also, according to Kolliker, in other persons after the abundant use of milk or brandy, as well as in those who are fasting; which he attributes, in the latter case, to the absorption of the fat of the body. But, under ordinary circumstances, the granular base of the chyle, poured into the blood, through the veins at the root of the neck, disappears as the blood passes through the lungs. Gases of the Blood.—A given quantity of blood contains rather less than half the same volume of gases. These are carbonic acid, oxygen, and nitrogen. The relative quantity is roughly stated thus :—Carbonic acid about two-thirds of the whole quantity of gas, oxygen rather less than one-third, nitrogen below one-tenth (Huxley).* The nitrogen is * The quantity of gases contained varies, of course, with a great number of different con- ditions, and especially according as the blood is arterial or venous. Hermann states that the