575 NASAL FOSSAE. of the nose, it is thicker and more firmly adherent. It is furnished with a large number of sebaceous follicles, the orifices of which are usually very distinct. The mucous membrane, lining the interior of the nose, is continuous with the skin externally, and with that which lines the nasal fossae within. The arteries of the nose are the lateralis nasi, from the facial, and the nasal artery of the septum, from the superior coronary, which supplies the alae and septum ; the sides and dorsum being supplied from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic and the infraorbital. The veins of the nose terminate in the facial and ophthalmic. The nerves of the nose are branches from the facial, infraorbital, and infra- trochlear, and a filament from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic. Nasal Fossae. The nasal fossae are two irregular cavities, situated in the middle of the face and extending from before backwards. They open in front by the two anterior nares, and terminate in the pharynx, behind, by the posterior nares. The bound- aries of these cavities, and the openings which are connected with them, as they exist in the skeleton, have been already described (pp. 72-74). The mucous membrane lining the nasal fossae is called the pituitary, from the nature of its secretion ; or Schneiderian, from Schneider, the first anatomist who showed that the secretion proceeded from the mucous membrane, and not, as was formerly imagined, from the brain. It is intimately adherent to the periosteum, or perichondrium, over which it lies. It is continuous externally with the skin through the anterior nares, and with the mucous membrane of the pharynx, through the posterior nares. From the nasal fossae its continuity may be traced with the conjunctiva, through the nasal duct and lachrymal canals; with the lining mem- brane of the tympanum and mastoid cells, through the Eustachian tube ; and with the frontal, ethmoidal, and sphenoidal sinuses, and the antrum maxillare, through the several openings in the meatuses. The mucous membrane is thickest, and most vascular, over the turbinated bones. It is also thick over the septum ; but, in the intervals between the spongy bones, and on the floor of the nasal fossae, it is very thin. Where it lines the various sinuses and the antrum maxillare, it is thin and pale. The epithelium differs in its character according to the functions of the part of the nose in which it is found. Near the orifice of the nostril where common sensation is chiefly or alone required, the epithelium is of the ordinary pavement or scaly variety. In the rest of the cavity, below the distribution of the olfactory nerves, i.e. in the respiratory portion of the nasal cavity, the epithelium is columnar ciliated. This is the case also in the sinuses of the nose. In the olfactory region, i.e. the region in which the terminal filaments from the olfactory bulb are dis- tributed (seep. 501), the epithelial cells are columnar and non-ciliated; and lying between them are cells (termed by Max Schultze olfactory cells), which consist of a nucleated body and two processes, of which one runs outwards between the columnar epithelial cells, and terminates at the level of the surface of the mucous membrane; the other (the deep) process runs inwards, branching to communicate with similar processes from neighbouring cells, so as to form a network in the deep part of the mucous membrane. These latter processes are frequently beaded like nerve-fibres, and are believed by most observers to be in connection with the terminal filaments of the olfactory nerve. The mucous membrane is pigmented in the olfactory, but not in the other regions, being of a light-yellow colour, at least in the white races.* This membrane is also provided with a nearly continuous layer of branched mucous glands, the ducts of which open upon its surface. They are most numerous * An interesting speculation lias been suggested by Dr. W. Ogle {Med. Chir. Trans., vol. liii. 277) as to the possible connection between the presence and abundance of this pigment and the perfection of the sense of smell.