ORGANS OF SENSE. 588 of the optic nerve, and divide into branches which run parallel with the axis of the eyeball : they are distributed to the middle layer of the choroid, and to the ciliary processes. The long ciliary arteries, two in number, pierce the back part of the sclerotic, and run forward, between that membrane and the choroid, to the Ciliary muscle, where they each divide into an upper and lower branch; these anastomose, and form a vascular circle round the outer circumference of the iris ; from this circle branches are given off, which unite, near the margin of the pupil, in a smaller vascular circle. These branches, in their course, supply the muscular structure. The anterior ciliary arteries, five or six in number, are branches of the muscular and lachrymal branches of the ophthalmic. They pierce the eyeball, at the ante- rior part of the sclerotic, immediately behind the margin of the cornea, and are distributed to the ciliary processes, some branches joining the greater vascular circle of the iris. The arteria centralis retince has been already described. The veins, usually four in number, are formed mainly by branches from the sur- face of the choroid. They perforate the sclerotic, midway between the cornea and the optic nerve, and end in the ophthalmic vein. The nerves of the eyeball, are the optic, the long ciliary nerves from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, and the short ciliary nerves from the ciliary ganglion. Appendages of the Eye. The appendages of the eye (tutamina oculi), include the eyebrows, the eyelids, the conjunctiva, and the lachrymal apparatus, viz, the lachrymal gland, the lachry- mal sac, and the nasal duct. The eyebrows (supercilia) are two arched eminences of integument, which sur- mount the upper circumference of the orbit on each side, and support numerous short, thick hairs, directed obliquely on the surface. In structure, the eyebrows consist of thickened integument, connected beneath with the Orbicularis palpe- brarum, Corrugator supercilii, and Occipito-frontalis muscles. These muscles serve, by their action on this part, to control to a certain extent the amount of light admitted into the eye. The eyelids (palpebral) are two thin, moveable folds, placed in front of the eye, protecting it from injury by their closure. The upper lid is the larger, and the more moveable of the two, and is furnished with a separate elevator muscle, the Levator palpebral superioris. When the eyelids are opened, an elliptical space (fissura palpebrarum) is left between their margins, the angles of which correspond to the junction of the upper and lower lids, and are called canthi. The outer canthus is more acute than the inner, and the lids here lie in close contact with the globe : but the inner canthus is prolonged for a short distance inwards, towards the nose, and the two lids are separated by a triangular space, the lacus lachrymalis. At the - commencement of the lacus lachrymalis, on the margin of the eyelid, is a small conical elevation, the lachrymal papilla, or tubercle, the apex of which is pierced by a small orifice, the punctum lachrymale, the com- mencement of the lachrymal canal. Structure of the eyelids. The eyelids are composed of the following structures, taken in their order from without inwards :— Integument, areolar tissue, fibres of the Orbicularis muscle, tarsal cartilage, fibrous membrane, Meibomian glands, and conjunctiva. The upper lid has, in addition, the aponeurosis of the Levator palpebral The integument is extremely thin, and continuous at the margin of the lids with the conjunctiva. The subcutaneous areolar tissue is very lax and delicate, seldom contains any fat, and is extremely liable to serous infiltration. The fibres of the Orbicularis muscle, where they cover the palpebrae, are thin, pale in colour, and possess an involuntary action.