7i3 THE BLADDER. columnar epithelium. But the tissue of the medullary substance is less easy to make out than that of the cortical, owing to its rapid decomposition. Thus we see that the numerous arteries which enter the suprarenal bodies from the sources mentioned below penetrate the cortical part of the gland, where they break up into capillaries in the fibrous septa, and these converge to the very numerous veins of the medullary portion, which are collected together into the suprarenal vein, which usually emerges as a single vessel from the centre of the gland. The medulla also contains a very large quantity of nerve-fibres. The arteries supplying the suprarenal capsules are numerous and of large size ; they are derived from the aorta, the phrenic, and the renal; they subdivide into numerous minute branches previous to entering the substance of the gland. The suprarenal vein returns the blood from the medullary venous plexus, and receives several branches from the cortical substance ; it opens on the right side into the inferior vena cava, on the left side into the renal vein. The lymphatics terminate in the lumbar glands. The nerves are exceedingly numerous; they are found chiefly, if not entirely, in the medulla, and are derived from the solar and renal plexuses, and, according to Bergmann, from the phrenic and pneumogastric nerves. They have numerous small ganglia developed upon them, from which circumstance the organ has been conjectured to have some function in connection with the sympathetic nervous system. THE PELVIS. The cavity of the pelvis is that part of the general abdominal cavity which is below the level of the linea ilio-pectinea and the promontory of the sacrum. Boundaries. It is bounded, behind, by the sacrum, the coccyx, and the great sacro-sciatic ligaments ; in front and at the sides by the pubes and ischia, covered by the Obturator muscles; above, it communicates with the cavity of the abdomen; and below, it is limited by the Levatores ani and Coccygei muscles, and the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia, which is reflected from the wall of the pelvis on to the viscera. Contents. The viscera contained in this cavity are the urinary bladder, the rectum, and some of the generative organs peculiar to each sex : they are partially covered by the peritoneum, and supplied with blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves. The Bladder. The bladder is the reservoir for the urine. It is a musculo-membranous sac, situated in the pelvis, behind the pubes, and in front of the rectum in the male, the uterus and vagina intervening between it and that intestine in the female. The shape, position, and relations of the bladder are greatly influenced by age, sex, and the degree of distension of the organ. During infancy, it is conical in shape, and projects above the upper border of the pubes into the hypogastric region. In the adult, when quite empty and contracted, it is a small triangular sac, placed deeply in the pelvis, flattened from before backwards, its apex reaching as high as the upper border of the symphysis pubis. When slightly distended, it has a rounded form, and partially fills the pelvic cavity ; and when greatly dis- tended, it is ovoid in shape, rising into the abdominal cavity, and often extending nearly as high as the umbilicus. It is larger in its vertical diameter than from side to side, and its long axis is directed from above obliquely downwards and backwards, in a line directed from some point between the pubes and umbilicus (according to its distension) to the end of the coccyx. The bladder, when dis- tended, is slightly curved forwards towards the anterior wall of the abdomen, so as to be more convex behind than in front. In the female, it is larger in the transverse than in the vertical diameter, and its capacity is said to be greater than in the