7i5 THE BLADDER. The base [fundus) of the bladder is directed downwards and backwards. It varies in extent according to the state of distension of the organ, being very broad when full, but much narrower when empty. In the male, it rests upon the second portion of the rectum, from which it is separated by a reflection of the recto-vesical fascia. It is covered posteriorly, for a slight extent, by the peritoneum, which is reflected from it upon the rectum, forming the recto-vesical fold. The portion of the bladder in relation with the rectum corresponds to a triangular space, bounded behind by the recto-vesical fold j on either side, by the vesicula seminalis and vas deferens; and touching the prostate gland in front. When the bladder is very full, the peritoneal fold is raised with it, and the distance between its reflection and the anus is about four inches ; but this distance is much diminished when the bladder is empty and contracted. In the female, the base of the bladder lies in contact with the lower part of the cervix uteri, is adherent to the anterior wall of the vagina, and separated from the upper part of the anterior surface of the cervix uteri by a fold of the peritoneum. The neck (cervix) of the bladder is the constricted portion continuous with the urethra. In the male, its direction is oblique in the erect posture, and it is sur- rounded by the prostate gland. In the female, its direction is obliquely downwards and forwards. Ligaments. The bladder is retained in its place by ligaments which are divided into true and false. The true ligaments are five in number, two anterior, and two lateral, formed by the recto-vesical fascia, and the urachus. The false ligaments, also five in number, are formed by folds of the peritoneum. The anterior ligaments (pubo-prostatic) extend from the back of the pubes, one on each side of the symphysis, to the front of the neck of the bladder, and upper surface of the prostate gland. These ligaments contain a few muscular fibres pro- longed from the bladder. The lateral ligaments, broader and thinner than the preceding, are attached to the lateral parts of the prostate, and to the sides of the base of the bladder. The urachus is the fibro-muscular cord already mentioned, extending between the summit of the bladder and the umbilicus. It is broad below, at its attachment to the bladder, and becomes narrower as it ascends. The false ligaments of the bladder are, two posterior, two lateral, and one superior. The two posterior pass forwards, in the male, from the sides of the rectum ; in the female, from the sides of the uterus, to the posterior and lateral aspect of the bladder : they form the lateral boundaries of the recto-vesical fold of the peritoneum, and contain the obliterated hypogastric arteries, and the ureters, together with vessels and nerves. The two lateral ligaments are reflections of the peritoneum, from the iliac fo.-sse to the sides of the bladder. The superior ligament is the prominent fold of peritoneum extending from the summit of the bladder to the umbilicus. It covers the urachus, and the obliterated hypogastric arteries. /Structure. The bladder is composed of four coats : a serous, a muscular, a cellular, and a mucous coat. The serous coat is partial, and derived from the peritoneum. It invests the posterior surface, from opposite the termination of the two ureters to its summit, and is reflected from this point and from the sides, on to the abdominal and pelvic walls. The muscular coat consists of two layers of unstriped muscular fibre, an external layer, composed of longitudinal fibres, and an internal layer of circular fibres. The longitudinal fibres are mo.«t distinct on the anterior and posterior surfaces of the organ. They arise in front, from the anterior ligaments of the bladder, from the neck of the bladder, and, in the male, from the adjacent portion of the prostate gland. They spread out, and form a plexiform mesh, on the anterior surface of the bladder, being continued over the posterior surface, and base of the organ to the