AQUEOUS HUMOUR. 535 granular layer, presenting, as described by Frey, very much the appearance of the delicate molecular matter found in the grey substance of the brain and spinal cord. The fibres of the nervous layer below pass through this layer probably to be conti- nuous with the nuclei of the rods and cones. Internal to the molecular layer is the layer of the ganglion-cells or cellular layer. These are multipolar cells, similar to those of other nervous centres, and the processes from them pass on the one hand to the molecular layer, and on the other to the fibrous layer, or expansion of the optic nerve. This ganglionic layer is deepest at the macula lutea. Finally, lying on the membrana limitans interna is the fibrous layer or proper expansion of the optic nerve. The nerve-fibres which form this layer differ from the fibres of the optic nerve in this respect: they lose their dark outline, and their tendency to become varicose; and consist only of the central part, or axis, of the nerve-tubes. The mode of termination of the nerve-fibres is unknown. According to some observers, they terminate in loops ; according to others, in free extremities. Recent observers have stated that some of the nerve-fibres are continuous with the caudate prolonga- tions of the nerve-cells external to the fibrous layer. An extremely thin and delicate structureless membrane lines the inner surface of the retina, and separates it from the vitreous body; it is called the membrana limi- tans interna. The radiating fibres of the retina, described by Heinrich Miiller, consist of ex- tremely fine fibrillated threads, which are connected externally with each of the rods of the columnar layer, of which they appear to be direct continuations, and, passing through the entire substance of the retina, are united to the outer surface of the membrana limitans interna. In their course through the retina, they become con- nected with the nuclear particles of the granular layer, or (as described by Schultze) nuclei exist in the fibres in this situation, and they give off branching processes most easily demonstrated in the granular layer, by means of which they communicate with each other ; as they approach the fibrous expansion of the optic nerve, they are collected into bundles, which pass through the areolae between its fibres, and are finally attached to the inner surface of the membrana limitans interna, where each fibre terminates in a triangular enlargement. The arteria centralis retina} and its accompanying vein pierce the optic nerve, and enter the globe of the eye through the porus opticus. It immediately divides into four or five branches, which at first run between the hyaloid membrane and the nervous layer; but they soon enter the latter membrane, and form a close capillary network in its substance. At the ora serrata, they terminate in a single vessel which bounds the terminal margin of the retina. The structure of the retina at the yellow spot presents some modifications. Jacob's membrane is thinner, and of its constituents only the cones are present; but they are small, and more closely aggregated than in any other part. The granular layer is absent over the fovea centralis. Of the two elements of the nervous layer, the nerve-fibres extend only to the circumference of the spot; but the nerve-cells cover its entire surface. The radiating fibres are found at the circumference, and here only extend to the inner strata of the granular layer. Of the capillary vessels, the larger branches pass round the spot; but the smaller capil- laries meander through it. The colour of the spot appears to imbue all the layers, except Jacob's membrane; it is of a rich yellow, deepest towards the centre, and does not appear to consist of pigment-cells, but resembles more a staining of the consti- tuent parts. Humours of the Eye. The aqueous humour completely fills the anterior and posterior chambers of the eyeball. It is small in quantity (scarcely exceeding, according to Petit, four or five grains in weight), has an alkaline reaction, in composition is little more than water, less than one-fiftieth of its weight being solid matter, chiefly chloride of sodium.