OF THE BACK. 241 the fascia over the iBiceps. The position of this abnormal slip is a point of interest in its relation to the axillary artery, as it crosses the vessel just above the spot usually selected for the application of a ligature, and may mislead the surgeon during- the operation. It may be easily recognised by the transverse direction of its fibres. Dr. Struthers found it, iu 8 out of 105 subjects, occurring seven times on both sides. Relations. Its superficial surface is subcutaneous, excepting at its upper part, where it is covered by the Trapezius. By its deep surface, it is in relation with the Erector spinae, the Serratus posticus inferior, the lower intercostal muscles and ribs, the Serratus magnus, inferior angle of the scapula, Rhomboideus major, Infraspinatus, and Teres major. Its outer margin is separated below, from the External oblique, by a small triangular interval; and another triangular interval exists between its upper border and the margin of the Trapezius, in which the Intercostal and Rhomboideus major muscles are exposed. Nerves. The Trapezius is supplied by the spinal accessory, and deep branches of the cervical plexus; the Latissimus dorsi by the long subscapular nerve. Second Layer. Levator anguli Scapulae. Rhonihoideus Minor. Rhomboideus Major, Dissection. The Trapezius must be removed in order to expose the next layer ; to effect this, detach the muscle from its attachment to the clavicle and spine of the scapula, and turn it back towards the spine. The Levator Anguli Scapula? is situated at the back part and side of the neck. It arises by four tendinous slips from the posterior tubercles of the tranverse processes of the three or four upper cervical vertebrae ; these becoming fleshy are united so as to form a flat muscle, which, passing downwards and backwards, is inserted into the posterior border of the scapula, between the superior angle and the triangular smooth surface at the root of the spine. Relations. By its superficial (anterior) surface, with the integument, Trapezius, and Sterno-mastoid. By its deep (posterior) surface, with the Splenitis colli, Transversalis colli, Cervicalis ascendens, and Serratus posticus superior, and with the transversalis colli and posterior scapular arteries. The Rhomboideus Minor arises from the ligamentum nuchas and spinous pro- cesses of the seventh cervical and first dorsal vertebrae. Passing downwards and outwards, it is inserted into the margin of the triangular smooth surface at the root of the spine of the scapula. This small muscle is usually separated from the Rhomboideus major by a slight cellular interval. The Rhomboideus Major is situated immediately below the preceding, the adjacent margins of the two being occasionally united. It arises by tendinous fibres from the spinous processes of the four or five upper dorsal vertebrae and the supraspinous ligament, and is inserted into a narrow tendinous arch, attached above to the triangular surface near the spine; below, to the inferior angle, the arch being connected to the border of the scapula by a thin membrane. When the arch extends, as it occasionally does, but a short distance, the muscular fibres are inserted into the scapula itself. Relations. By their superficial {posterior) surface, with the integument and Trapezius; the Rhomboideus major, with the Latissimus dorsi. By their deep (anterior) surface, with the Serratus posticus superior, posterior scapular artery, part of the Erector spinae, the intercostal muscles and ribs. Nerves. These muscles are supplied by branches from the fifth cervical nerve, and additional filaments from the deep branches of the cervical plexus are distri- buted to the Levator anguli scapulae. Actions. The movements effected by the preceding muscles are numerous, as may be conceived from their extensive attachment. If the head is fixed, the upper part of the Trapezius will elevate the point of the shoulder, as in supporting weights; when the middle and lower fibres are brought into action, partial rotation of the scapula upon the side of the chest is produced. If the shoulders are fixed, R