342 ARTERIES. check the progress of the disease. The operation is a difficult one, on account of the depth of the artery, the number of important parts by which it is surrounded, the loose and yielding- nature of the parts upon which it is supported, and its occasional irregularity of origin. An incision is to be made, about two and a half inches in length, running obliquely downwards and backwards, and having its centre opposite the point of the great cornu of the hyoid bone, which is the guide to the artery. The parts being gradually dissected, the hypoglossal nerve will come first into view, and then the artery must be carefully sought for among the loose tissue at the bottom of the wound, care being taken not to open the pharynx. Large veins, the internal jugular or some of its branches, may be met with, and prove a source of embarrassment. Troublesome haemorrhage may occur in the division of the frsenum in children, if the ranine artery, which lies on each side of it, is cut through. The student should remember that the operation is always to be performed with a pair of blunt-pointed scissors, and the mucous membrane only is to be divided by a very superficial cut, which cannot endanger any vessel. The scissors, also, should be directed away from the tongue. Any further liberation of the tongue, which may be necessary, can be effected by tearing. The Facial Artery (fig 213) arises a little above the lingual, and ascends obliquely forwards and upwards, beneath the body of the lower jaw, to the sub- maxillary gland, in which it lies imbedded in a groove on its posterior and upper 213.—The Arteries of the Face and Scalp.* border; this may be called the cervical part of the artery. It then curves up- wards over the body of the jaw at the anterior inferior angle of the Masseter muscle, ascends forwards and upwards across the cheek to the angle of the mouth, passes up along the side of the nose, and terminates at the inner canthus of the eye, under the name of the angular artery. This vessel, both in the neck, and on * The muscular tissue of the lips must be supposed to have been cut away, in order to show the course of the coronary arteries.