630 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. the stomach, and covers its posterior surface as far as the great curvature ; it then descends for some distance in front of the small intestines, and, returning upon itself to the transverse colon, forms the internal layer of the great omentum ; it covers the upper surface of the transverse colon, and, passing backwards to the spine, forms the upper layer of the transverse meso-colon. Ascending in front of the pancreas and crura of the Diaphragm, it lines the back part of the under sur- face of that muscle, from which it is reflected on to the posterior border of the liver, forming the inferior layer of the coronary ligament. From the under surface of the liver it may be traced to the transverse fissure, where it is continuous with the posterior layer of the lesser omentum, the point whence its reflection was originally traced. The space included in the reflections of this layer of the peritoneum is called the lesser cavity of the peritoneum , or cavity of the great omentum. It is bounded, in front, by the lesser omentum, the stomach, and the descending part of the great omentum ; behind, by the ascending part of the great omentum, the transverse colon, transverse meso-colon, and its ascending layer; above, by the liver; and below, by the folding of the great omentum. This space communicates with the general peritoneal cavity through the foramen of Winslow, which is situated behind the right, or free, border of the lesser omentum. The foramen of Winslow is bounded, in front, by the lesser omentum, enclosing the vena porta? and the hepatic artery and duct; behind, by the inferior vena cava ; above, by the lobulus Spigelii; below, by the hepatic artery curving forwards from the cceliac axis. This foramen is nothing more than a constriction of the general peritoneal cavity at this point, caused by the hepatic and gastric arteries passing forwards from the cceliac axis to reach their respective viscera. The viscera thus shown to be almost entirely invested by peritoneum are the liver, stomach, spleen, first portion of the duodenum, the jejunum, and ileum, the transverse colon, sigmoid flexure, upper end of the rectum, the uterus, and ovaries. The viscera only partially invested by peritoneum are the descending and trans- verse portions of the duodenum, the caecum, the ascending and descending colon, the middle portion of the rectum, and the upper part of the vagina and posterior wall of the bladder. The kidneys, suprarenal capsules, and pancreas are covered by the membrane without receiving any special investment from it. The lower end of the rectum, the neck, base, and anterior surface of the bladder the whole of the front, and the lower part of the posterior, wall of the vagina, have no peritoneal covering. Numerous folds are formed by the peritoneum, extending between the various organs. These serve to hold them in position, and, at the same time, enclose the vessels and nerves proceeding to each part. Some of the folds are called ligaments, from their serving to support the organs in position. Others, which connect certain parts of the intestine with the abdominal wall, constitute the mesenteries ; and lastly, those are called omenta, which proceed from the stomach to certain viscera in its neighbourhood. The Ligaments, formed by folds of the peritoneum, include those of the liver, spleen, bladder, and uterus. They will be found described with their respective organs. The Omenta are the lesser omentum, the great omentum, and the gastro-splenic omentum. The lesser omentum (g astro-hepatic) is the duplicating which extends between the transverse fissure of the liver and the lesser curvature of the stomach. It b extremely thin, and consists, as before said, of two layers of peritoneum. At th( left border its two layers pass on to the end of the oesophagus; but at the righl border, where it is free, they are continuous, and form a free rounded margin which contains between its layers the hepatic artery, the ductus communis chole dochus, and portal vein, lymphatics and the hepatic plexus of nerves—all these structures being enclosed in loose areolar tissue, called Glisson's capsule. Between «ltl