cxxvii THE PLACENTA. uterus, decidua vera, and that which is in contact with the ovum, dicidua reflexa. The decidua does not extend into the neck of the uterus, which after conception is closed by a plug- of mucus. The decidua vera is per- forated by the openings formed by the enlarged uterine glands, which become much hyperfcrophied and developed into tortuous tubes. It contains at a later period numerous arteries and venous channels, con- tinuous with the uterine sinuses, and it is from it that the uterine part of the placenta is developed. The portion of the decidua vera which takes part in the formation of the placenta is called 'decidua serotina.' The decidua reflexa is shaggy on its outer aspect, but smooth within. The vessels which it contains at first disappear after about the third month; about the fifth or sixth month the space between the two layers of the decidua disappears, and towards the end of pregnancy the decidua is transformed into a thin yellowish membrane, which constitutes the external envelope of the ovum. Much additional interest has been given to the physiology of the decidua by the fact, which seems to be now established by the researches of Dr. John Williams, that every discharge of ova is, as a rule, accom- panied by the formation of a decidua, and that the essence of menstrua- tion consists in the separation of a decidual layer of mucous membrane from the uterus. The Placenta is the organ by which the connection between the foetus and mother is maintained, and through which blood reaches the foetus and is returned to the uterus. It therefore subserves the purposes both of circulation and respiration. It is formed of two parts, as already shown— viz. the maternal portion which is developed out of the decidua vera (serotina), and the foetal placenta formed by the villous chorion. Its shape in the human subject is that of a disc, one side of which adheres to the uterine walls, while the other is covered by the amnion. The villi of the chorion (or foetal placenta) gradually enlarge, forming large projections— 4 cotyledons'—which each contain the ramifications of vessels communi- cating with the umbilical arteries and veins of the foetus. These vascular tufts are covered with epithelium, and project into corresponding dej>res- sions in the mucous membrane of the uterine walls. The maternal portion of the placenta consists of a large number of cells formed bv an enlarge- ment of the vessels of the uterine wall, and conveying the uterine blood into close proximity to the villi of the foetal placenta, which dip into these cells. The interchange of fluids, necessary for the growth of the foetus, and for the depuration of the blood, takes place through the walls of these villi, but there is no direct continuity between the maternal and foetal vessels. The arteries open into the placental cells somewhat after the manner of the erectile tissue. The veins anastomose freely with one another, and give rise, at the edge of the placenta, to a venous channel which runs around its whole circumference—the placental .sinus. The umbilical cord appears about the end of the fifth month after preg- nancy. It consists of the coils of two arteries (umbilical) and a single vein, united together by a gelatinous mass (gelatin of Wharton) contained in the cells of an areolar structure. There are originally two umbilical veins, but one of these vessels becomes obliterated, as do also the two