GENERAL ANATOMY. 1 brane, the perichondrium, from the vessels of which it imbibes its nutritive fluids, being itself destitute of blood-vessels ; nor have nerves been traced into it. Its intimate structure is very simple. If a thin slice be examined under the microscope, it will be found to consist of cells of a rounded or angular shape, with nucleus and nucleolus, lying in groups, surrounded by a granular or almost homogeneous matrix. By boiling the cartilage for some hours, and treating it with acetic acid, the cell-membrane which lines the cavity in the matrix may be made visible. By the application of certain reagents or by digestion in warm acidu- lated water the matrix is found to be arranged in the form of concentric rings around the cartilage-cell, forming what is described by some authors as the cartilage-capsule, or cell-territory ; and Rollett describes a system of dark lines, running in a straight direction through the matrix and often connecting the several cell-cavities with each other, which are brought into view by the action of osmic acid. These are regarded by some anatomists as nutritive canals. The articular cartilages, the temporary cartilages, and the costal car- tilages, are all of the hyaline variety. They present minute differences in the size and shape of their cells, and in the arrangement of the matrix. In the articular cartilages, which show no tendency to ossification, the matrix is finely granular under a high power; the cells and nuclei are small, and are disposed parallel to the surface in the superficial part, while nearer to the bone they become vertical. Articular cartilages have a tendency to split in a vertical direction, probably from some peculiarity in the intimate structure, or arrangement of the component parts, of the matrix. In disease this tendency to a fibrous splitting becomes very manifest. Articular cartilage in the adult is not covered by perichondrium, at least on its free surface, where it is exposed to friction, though an epithelial layer can be traced in the foetus over the wThole surface of the cartilage, and in the adult over a small part of its circum- ference, continuous with the epi- thelium of the synovial membrane. This is probably the remains of an investing membrane which is worn away in after-life by the action of the joint. Articular cartilage forms a thin incrustation upon the joint-surfaces of the bones, and its elasticity enables it to break the force of any concussion, whilst its smoothness affords ease and free- dom of movement. It varies in thickness according to the shape of the bone on which it lies; where this is convex, the cartilage is thickest over the convexity where the greatest pressure is received, and the reverse is the case in the concavities of the joints. Articular cartilage appears to imbibe its nutriment partly from Fig. XV.-—Costal cartilage from a man seventy-six years of age, showing the development of fibrous structure in the matrix. In several portions of the specimen, two or three generations of cells are seen enclosed in a parent cell-wall. High power.