509 FIFTH. MECKEL'S GANGLION. labii superioris, and are distributed to the integument and muscles of the upper lip, the mucous membrane of the mouth, and labial glands. All these branches are joined, immediately beneath the orbit, by filaments from the facial nerve, forming an intricate plexus, the infraorbital. ►Spheno-Palatine Ganglion. (Fig. 281.) The spheno-palatine ganglion (Meckel's), the largest of the cranial ganglia, is deeply placed in the spheno-maxillary fossa, close to the spheno-palatine foramen. It is triangular or heart-shaped, of a reddish-grey colour, and placed mainly behind the palatine branches of the superior maxillary nerve, at the point where the sym- pathetic root joins the ganglion. It consequently does not involve those nerves which pass to the palate and nose. Like the other ganglia of the fifth nerve, it possesses a motor, a sensory, and a sympathetic root. Its motor root is derived from the facial, through the Vidian; its sensory root from the fifth ; and its 281.—The Sphenopalatine Ganglion and its Branches. sympathetic root from the carotid plexus, through the Vidian. Its branches are divisible into four groups : ascending, which pass to the orbit; descending, to the palate; internal, to the nose 5 and posterior branches, to the pharynx. The ascending branches are two or three delicate filaments, which enter the orbit by the spheno-maxillary fissure, and supply the periosteum. Arnold describes and delineates these branches as ascending to the optic nerve; one, to the sixth nerve (Bock) ; and one to the ophthalmic ganglion (Tiedemann). The descending or palatine branches are distributed to the roof of the mouth, the soft palate, tonsil, and lining membrane of the nose. They are almost a direct con- tinuation of the spheno-palatine branches of the superior maxillary nerve, and are three in number : anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior, or large palatine nerve, descends through the posterior palatine canal, emerges upon the hard palate, at the posterior palatine foramen, and passes forwards through a groove in the hard palate, nearly as far as the incisor teeth. It supplies the gums, the mucous membrane and glands of the hard palate, and com-