GENEEAL ANATOMY. XCll regards as an optical illusion, and the nuclei shown in the above figures are, according to him, situated outside of the muscular fibres on the point of junction of the fibrils which form the intricate and extensive plexus in which the nerves terminate, so that the nerves nowhere termi- nate in free ends, nor at any definite part of the fibre; but, on the con- trary, surround every point of the latter with a very close interlacement. By the kindness of Dr. Beale we are enabled to reproduce some of the figures representing preparations which he exhibited to the British Medical Association at Oxford in 1868, in illustration of this view. THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. The Yascular System, exclusive of its central organ, the Heart, is divided into four classes of vessels—the Arteries, Capillaries, Veins, and Lymphatics—the minute structure of which we will now proceed briefly Fig. LI1T.—Transverse section through a small artery and vein of the mucous membrane of the epiglottis of a child. Magnified about 350 diameters. A, artery showing the nucleated endothelium e, which lines it: the vessel being contracted, the endothelial cells appear very thick. Underneath the endothelium is the wavy elastic intima. The chief part of the wall of the vessel is occupied by the circular muscle-coat, m: the staff-shaped nuclei of the muscle-cells are well seen. Outside this is a, part of the adventitia. This is composed of bundles of connective-tissue fibres, shown in section, with the nuclei of the connective- tissue corpuscles. The adventitia gradually merges into the surrounding connective tissue. V, vein showing a thin endothelial membrane, e, raised accidentally from the intima, which on account of its delicacy is seen as a mere line on the media, m. This latter is composed of a few circular unstriped muscle-cells, a, the adventitia, similar in structure to that of an artery. (Klein and Noble Smith.) to describe, referring the reader to the body of the work for all that is necessary in the details of their ordinary anatomy. Structure of Arteries.—The arteries are composed of three coats: internal serous, or epithelial coat (tunica intima of Kolliker), middle fibrous or circular coat, and external cellular coat, or tunica adventitia. The two inner coats together are very easily separated from the external, as by the ordinary operation of tying a ligature on the artery.