clii GENERAL ANATOMY. lying internal to.the Wolffian duct, and called the duct of Miiller. The Wolffian and Miillerian ducts open (along with the ureter when formed) into the common urogenital sinus, or cloaca, which is the termination of the common intestinal cavity, and into which the allantois also opens in front. As the allantois expands into the urinary bladder this common cavity is divided into two by a septum, to form the bladder in front and the rectum behind. The Wolffian and Miillerian ducts are soon connected by cellular substance into a single mass—the genital cord—in which the Wolffian ducts lie side by side in front, and the ducts of Miiller behind, at first separate, but later on coalescing. The allantois communicates at first with the lower part of the primi- tive intestine by a canal—the urachus. After the second month the lower part of the urachus dilates, so as to form the bladder, which then communicates above with the cavity of the urachus, and below with the rectum, by a canal of communication which is afterwards transformed into the urethra. The urachus is obliterated before the termination of foetal life ; but the cord formed by its obliteration is perceptible through- out life, passing from the upper part of the bladder to the umbilicus, and occasionally remains patent during life,constitutinga well-known deformity. The permanent kidneys are almost, if not entirely, independent of the Wolffian bodies or primordial kidneys in their development, though they originate in the same mass of blastema, the intermediate cell-mass behind the Wolffian body. As their distance from the bladder increases, the ureters become developed, and the simple cute-de-sac in which the foetal kidneys commence divide and subdivide so as to form lobulated organs provided with calices in their interior. This lobulation is perceptible for some time after birth. The mode of development of the ureters is not exactly known. Some embryologists describe them as extending gradually from the allantois upwards, so that the proper tissue of the kidney would be developed upon projections, or buds, out of the upper ends of the ureters. Others describe the ureter as an offset from the upper part of the Wolffian duct. Others teach that the kidney tissue is formed before the ureter, and that the ducts of the former are hollowed out and open into the latter. Others, again, believe that the whole organ (kidney and ureter) is laid down in the same mass of blastema, which is at first solid, and that the various ducts or hollow spaces are formed in each part simultaneously. What is admitted is that the solid blastema in which the kidney commences comes to be arranged in a series of club-shaped bodies, which have their larger ends directed towards the hilum, and that these afterwards become hollow and open into the ureter, which has then also assumed the condition of a tube, communicating with the part of the allantois afterwards converted into the bladder. As the future uriniferous tubes grow, they become convo- luted, so that the whole substance of the kidney seems at first to consist of cortical substance. Then the ends of the tubes become straight, and the pyramidal structure is developed. The suprarenal bodies are developed from the same mass as the kidney, and are said at first to form a single organ in the middle line. £ K61- liker has observed them in close connection with the substance in which the large sympathetic plexus of the abdomen is produced, but it is not