GENERAL ANATOMY. cxxxiv the pterygoid process, the palate bone, the superior maxillary and the malar. The lateral masses of the ethmoid, the os unguis and nasal bones are furnished by the internal nasal process. The rest of these processes on either side is united by a single protuberance, the incisive tubercle; from which the intermaxillary bone and the middle of the upper lip are formed, and, according to some, the vomer. Besides the lower jaw, the inferior maxillary protuberance furnishes a transitory cartilaginous mass—the cartilage of Meckel—from which the malleus and incus are formed. The remains of Meckel's cartilage per- sist as long as till the end of the seventh or the eighth month of foetal life, in the form of a rod of cartilage lying inside the lower jaw. From the second pharyngeal arch are formed the stapes and stapedius muscle, the pyramid, the styloid process, the stylohyoid ligament, and the small cornu of the hyoid bone. The great cornu and body of the hyoid bone are developed from the third arch, while the fourth pharyngeal arch enters merely into the formation of the soft parts of the neck, and does not give origin to any special organ. The pharyngeal or branchial fissures are four in number, the fourth being situated beneath or below the fourth arch ; the first persists, though only in a portion of its extent, forming the Eustachian tube, the meatus auditorius, and the tympanic cavity. The other fissures are wholly closed by the sixth week.* Development of the palate.—The buccal cavity is at first common to the mouth and nose. Then a lamella is given off from the superior maxillary tuberosity on either side, which is directed horizontally inwards. These two palatine lamella* meet in the median line, in front, about the eighth week, and by the ninth week the septum should be complete. The superior maxillary bones proper, and the soft parts covering them, unite at an early period with the incisive bone, and the median portion of the lower lip. The olfactory fossse open into the upper (respiratory) portion of the cavity, forming the nostrils. It will be noticed that the various forms of hare- lip correspond to various interruptions of the process of union; thus the ordinary single hare-lip on one side of the median line results from the mere absence of union on that side between the soft parts which cover the incisive bone and those connected with the proper superior maxillary; if this occurs on both sides, we have the simplest form of double hare-lip ; * The relations of these pharyngeal arches to the cranial nerves are of the greatest interest in a morphological point of view, but are hardly yet quite settled. Prof. Parker has lately described the ossification of the skull as proceeding from five arches—a prae-oral and four pharyngeal or post-oral, the post-oral being the mandibular or inferior maxillary ; the hy^id; the thyro-hyoid ; and the fourth, which, as above stated, has no remnant in the skeleton. The fifth cranial nerve, the facial, and the glosso-pharvngeal, have definite relations to these arches; each dividing so that its anterior and posterior divisions embrace the cleft, or are distributed on the ' bars/ as Professor Parker calls them, which bound the cleft. Thus the front division of the trigeminus is distributed in front of the buccal cleft on the prse-oral arch, and its posterior division on the first pharyngeal or mandibular : the facial sends its anterior division — represented in the mature condition by the chorda tympani—in front of the Eustachian fissure (the remains of the first cleft), to the mandibular arch, while its descending branches go to the hyoid arch ; the glosso-pharyngeal goes by its lingual portion to the hyo d arch, while its pharyngeal part is distributed to the thyro-hyoid. The theory is a beautiful one, and the method of inquiry most fruitful in promise for the higher anatomy, which aims at uniting into oue plan all the various forms of ova and the animals developed from them; but as yet it is hardly sufficiently established in fact to be made a necessary part of scholastic teaching.