cxii GENERAL ANATOMY. peritoneum, but which can always be traced continuously around the whole circumference. The sac is completely closed, so that no communi- cation exists between the serous cavity and the parts in its neighbourhood. An apparent exception exists in the peritoneum of the female; for the Fallopian tube opens freely into the peritoneal cavity in the dead subject, so that a bristle can be passed from the one into the other. But this communication is closed during life, except at the moment of the passage of the ovum out of the ovary into the tube, as is proved by the fact that no interchange of fluids ever takes place between the two cavities in dropsy of the peritoneum, or in accumulation of fluid in the Fallopian tubes. The serous membrane is often supported by a firm fibrous layer, as is the case with the pericardium, and such membranes are sometimes spoken of as 6 fibro-serous.5 In the parietal portion of the arachnoid there is, according to many anatomists, no serous membrane in the proper sense of the term ; but the dura mater is merely lined with a layer of epithe- lium, the basement-membrane being here indistinguishable. In other situations, the following parts may be recognised as constituting a serous membrane :—I. The epithelium, a single layer of polygonal or pavement- epithelial cells. 2. A structureless basement-membrane. 3. The connec- tive tissue and vessels which support the latter, connect it with the parts below, and supply blood to its deep surfa.ce. Some of the serous portion of the blood is secreted, or transudes, through the basement-membrane to furnish the special secretion. This latter is, in most cases, only in suffi- cient quantity to moisten the membrane, but not to furnish any appreciable quantity of fluid. *When a small quantity can be collected, it appears to resemble in many respects the lymph, and like that fluid coagulates spontaneously ; but when secreted in large quantities, as/in dropsy, it is a watery fluid containing usually sufficient albumen to gelatinise with heat. Lately the interesting discovery has been made that fluids with coloured particles transude through the serous membrane into the lym- phatic vessels, and stomata or openings have been seen between the cells of the epithelium, which are believed to be opened and closed by the movements of the serous surface (fig. LYIIL). These stomata have been demonstrated at present only in the peritoneum and pleura. The mucous membranes are more complex in their structure than the serous. Their epithelium is of various forms, including the spheroidal, columnar, and ciliated, and is often arranged in several layers (see fig. LXVI.^. This epithelial layer is supported by the corium, which is analogous to the derma of the skin, and is in fact continuous with it at the orifices of the body. The corium consists, as it is usually described, of a transparent structureless basement-membrane next to th^ epithelium, supported by a fibro-vascular layer of variable thickness below it, and this merging into the submucous areolar tissue. It is only in some situations that the basement-membrane can be demonstrated. The fibro-vascular layer of the corium contains, besides the white and yellow fibrous tissue and the vessels, muscular fibre-cells, forming, in many situations, a definite layer, called the muscularis mucosae, nerves, and lymphatics in various proportions. Embedded in it are found numerous glands, and projecting out of it are processes (villi and papilla?) analogous