THE LIVER. It extends from the .anterior free margin of the liver, which is occasionally notched, for its reception, to near the right extremity of the transverse fissure. The fissure for the vena cava is a short, deep fissure, occasionally a complete canal, which extends obliquely upwards from a little behind the right extremity of the transverse fissure to the posterior border of that organ, where it joins the fissure for the ductus venosus. On slitting open the inferior vena cava which is contained in it, a deep fossa is seen, at the bottom of which the hepatic veins communicate with this vessel. This fissure is separated from the transverse fissure by the lobus caudatus, and from the longitudinal fissure by the lobulus Spigelii. Lobes.—The lobes of the liver, like the ligaments and fissures, are five in number : the right lobe, the left lobe, the lobus quadratus, the lobulus Spigelii, and the lobus caudatus. The right lobe is much larger than the left; the proportion between them being as six to one. It occupies the right hypochondrium, and is separated from the left lobe, on its upper surface, by the longitudinal ligament; on its under surface, by the longitudinal fissure; and in front by a deep notch. It is of a quadrilateral form, its under surface being marked by three fissures : the transverse fissure, the fissure for the gall-bladder, and the fissure for the inferior vena cava ; and by two shallow impressions, one in front (impressio colica), for the hepatic flexure of the colon; and one behind (impressio renqlis), for the right kidney and suprarenal capsule. The left lobe is smaller and more flattened than the right. It is situated in the epigastric and left hypochondriac regions, sometimes extending as far as the upper border of the spleen. Its upper surface is convex ; its under concave surface rests upon the front of the stomach; and its posterior border is in relation with the cardiac orifice of the stomach. The lobus quadratus, or square lobe, is situated on the under surface of the right lobe, bounded in front by the free surface of the liver; behind, by the transverse fissure; on the right, by the fissure for the gall-bladder; and, on the left, by the umbilical fissure. The lobulus Spigelii projects from the back part of the under surface of the right lobe. It is bounded, in front, by the transverse fissure; on the right, by the fissure for the vena cava; and, on the left, by the fissure for the ductus venosus. The lobus caudatus, or tailed lobe, is a small elevation of the hepatic substance, extending obliquely outwards, from the base of the lobus Spigelii, to the under surface of the right lobe. It separates the right extremity of the transverse fissure from the commencement of the fissure for the inferior cava. Vessels.—The vessels connected with the liver are also five in number : they are the hepatic artery, the portal vein, the hepatic vein, the hepatic duct, and the lymphatics. The hepatic artery, portal vein, and hepatic duct, accompanied by numerous lymphatics and nerves ascend to the transverse fissure, between the layers of the gastro-hepatic omentum; the hepatic duct lying to the right, the hepatic artery to the left, and the portal vein behind the other two. They are enveloped in a loose areolar tissue, the capsule of Glisson, which accompanies the vessels in their course through the portal canals, in the interior of the organ. The hepatic veins convey the blood from the liver. They commence at the circumference of the organ, and proceed towards the deep fossa in its posterior border, where they terminate, by two large and several smaller branches, in the inferior vena cava. The hepatic veins have no cellular investment; consequently, their parietes are adherent to the walls of the canals through which they run; so that, on a section of the organ, these veins remain widely open and solitary, and may be easily dis- tinguished from the branches of the portal vein, which are more or less collapsed, and always accompanied by an artery and duct. The lymphatics are large and numerous, consisting of a deep and superficial set. They have been already described.