FOURTH. 503 278.—Nerves of the orbit. Seen from above. Tllfrn.T,ort,h The superior division, the smaller, passes inwards across the optic nerve, and supplies the Superior rectus and Levator palpebrse. It occasionally communicates with the ganglionic branch of the nasal nerve. The inferior division, the larger, divides into three branches. One passes be- neath the optic nerve to the Internal rectus; an- other to the Inferior rectus; and the third, the largest of the three, passes for- wards between the Inferior and External recti, to the Inferior oblique. From the latter, a short thick branch is given off to the lower part of the lenticular gan- glion, forming its inferior root, as well as two fila- ments to the Inferior rec- tus. All these branches enter the muscles on their ocular surface. Fourth Nerve. (Fig. 278.) The Fourth, or tro chlear nerve, the smallest of the cranial nerves, sup- plies the Superior oblique muscle. It arises from the upper part of the valve of Vieussens, immediately behind the testis, and divides beneath the corpora quadri- gemina, into two fasciculi; the anterior one arising from a nucleus of grey matter, close to the middle line of the floor of the Sylvian aqueduct; the posterior one from a grey nucleus, at the upper part of the floor of the fourth ventricle, close to the origin of the fifth nerve. The two nerves are connected together at their origin, by a transverse band of white fibres, which crosses the surface of the valve of Vieussens. The nerve winds round the outer side of the crus cerebri, immediately above the pons Varolii, pierces the dura mater in the free border of the tentorium cerebelli, near the posterior clinoid process, above the oval opening for the fifth nerve, and passes forwards through the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, below the third; but, as it enters the orbit, through the sphenoidal fissure, it becomes the highest of all the nerves. In the orbit, it passes inwards, above the origin of the Levator palpebrse, and finally enters the orbital surface of the Superior oblique muscle. In the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, this nerve receives some filaments from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic. It is not unfrequently blended with the ophthalmic division of the fifth; and occasionally gives off a branch to assist in the formation of the lachrymal nerve. It also gives off a recurrent branch, which passes backwards between the layers of the tentorium, dividing into two or three filaments, which may be traced as far back as the wall of the lateral sinus. Sensory liooti