GENERAL ANATOMY. Ivi large round spaces seen in the figure are the Haversian canals, and in these canals the larger vessels of the bone ramify. The smaller Haversian canals contains arteries, the larger, veins, a single vessel being lodged in each canal. The fine lines leading out of (or into) these canals, are called canaliculi, and the irregular dark spaces, which may be noticed to have a general circular arrangement round the Haversian canals, are called the lacunas. The canaliculi which originate in oue lacuna most frequently run into a neighbouring lacuna, or else into a neighbouring Haversian canal; some of them, however, anastomose with others in their neighbourhood, and a few appear to terminate in blind extremities or to bend backwards. The concentric rings of lacunse round each Haversian canal are called lamellce. The irregular intervals which would be left by the juxtaposition of these lamellae are seen in the figure to be filled up by lacunse and canaliculi which communicate with the systems composing the adjacent lamellse. Besides the lamellae which are concentric to the Haversian systems there are other lamellse, most perceptible on the surface of the bone, which are concentric to the medullary cavity. These are most distinct in the adult bone. These lamellse, which are laid down around the axis of the bone itself, are called by some authors the primary or fundamental lamellce, to distinguish them from those laid down around the axis of the Haversian canals, the secondary or special lamellce. The interstitial lamellae found between the Haversian systems can sometimes be recognised as belonging to the primary lamellae; but this is not always the case. The interspaces between the lacunae and canaliculi are filled with a granular homogeneous solid material, the ultimate mineral base of the bone. If a longitudinal section be taken, as in fig. XIX., the appearances are identical. The appearance of concentric rings is replaced by that of lamellse or rows of lacunse parallel to the course of the Haversian canals ; and these canals appear like half-tubes instead of circular spaces. The tubes are seen to branch and communicate, so that each separate Haver- sian canal runs only a short distance. In other respects the structure has much the same appearance as in transverse sections. In sections of thin plates of bone (as in the walls of the cells which form the cancellous tissue), the Haversian canals are absent, whenever the thickness of bone is not too great to allow of its nutritious juices being absorbed from the fibrous membrane coating either side by means of the lacunse and canaliculi only; but when the thickness becomes at all considerable, Haversian systems begin to appear. Thus the spaces of the cancellous tissue (medullary spaces) have the same function there that the Haversian canals have in the more compact tissue. In the long bones, by maceration in dilute mineral acid, it may easily be shown that besides these microscopic lamellse surrounding each Haver- sian canal, the whole bone is composed of distinct laminae, concentrically disposed around the medullary tube. These laminae are crossed and pinned together, as it were, by the fibres of bone running obliquely through them, which were first described by Dr. Sharpey, and named by him perforating fibres. In the flat bones parallel or superimposed plates