FECUNDATION OF OVUM. cxvii nucleated cells results (fig. LXX.). Ova in which this segmentation extends over the whole yolk (which is the case with the mammalia) are called holoblastic ova; those in which only a portion of the yolk is seg- mented are called meroblastic. Fig. LXX.—Four diagrams to show the division of the yolk. The ovum is surrounded by spermatozoa. The clear corpuscles (polar globules of Robin) are seen in the first two. There are also found within the vitelline membrane one or more clear globules, called'polar globules ' by Robin, because they lie near one of the poles of segmentation. The nature, origin, and uses of these bodies are not known. They seem to be usually regarded as produced by the liquefaction of the yolk, and as not being essential to the process of fructification. The globules of which the yolk is now composed soon arrange them- selves into the form of a membrane lined with pavement-epithelium. As the yolk-mass softens, fluid accumulates in the interior of this membrane, spreading it out on the internal surface of the vitelline membrane. The latter (external) membrane (fig. LXXIII.) soon becomes covered with granu- lations or vegetations, which give it a shaggy appearance, and it then takes the name of the ' primitive chorion ;' whilst the internal membrane, produced by the cleavage of the yolk, is called the £ blastodermic membrane or vesicle.' The ovum increases in size during the whole of this time, by the absorption of albuminous fluid which coats it during its descent along the Fallopian tube, and which is secreted by the mucous membrane lining that tube. The first stage towards the formation of the embryo is the cleavage or splitting of the blastoderm. This process has been accurately followed Fig. LXXI.—Ovum with the germinal area, seen in profile to show the division of the blasto- dermic membrane, i, vitelline membrane. 2, blastoderm. 3, germinal area. 4, jplace where the blastoderm is just divided into its two layers. out in birds, in whose ova (meroblastic) the blastoderm only covers a portion of the yolk, and is divided originally into two layers, the lower of which soon splits again into two, so that three separate layers of cells