486 NERVOUS SYSTEM. of each hemisphere, the lateral ventricle. It is about four inches in length, ex- tending to within an inch and a half of the anterior, and to within two inches and a half of the posterior, part of the brain. It is somewhat broader behind than in front, and is thicker at either end than in its central part, being thickest behind. It presents a somewhat arched form, from before backwards, terminating anteriorly in a rounded border, which curves downwards and backwards, between the anteiior lobes to the base of the brain. In its course, it forms a distinct bend, named the knee, or genu, and the reflected portion, named the beak {rostrum), becoming gradually narrower, is attached to the anterior cerebral lobe, and is connected through the lamina cinerea with the optic commissure. The reflected portion of the corpus callosum gives off, near its termination, two bundles of white 268.—Section of the Brain. Made on a level with the Corpus Callosum. substance, which, diverging from one another, pass backwards, across the anterior perforated space, to the entrance of the fissure of Sylvius. They are called the peduncles of the corpus callosum. Posteriorly, the corpus callosum forms a thick rounded fold, which is free for a little distance, as it curves forwards, and is then continuous with the fornix. On its upper surface, its fibrous structure is very apparent to the naked eye. being collected into coarse transverse bundles. Along the middle line is a linear depression, the raphe, bounded laterally by two or more slightly elevated longitudinal bands, called the strice longitudinales or nerves of Lancisi ; and, still more externally, other longitudinal striae are seen, beneath the convolutions which rest on the corpus callosum. These axe the strice longitudinales laterales. The under surface of the corpus callosum is continuous behind with the fornix, being separated from it in front by the septum lucidum, which forms a vertical partition between the two ventricles. On either side, the fibres of the