lxxxviii GENERAL ANATOMY. observer, run up in a waving course to the corpuscle, not penetrating it, but forming two or three coils round it, and finally join together in loops. These bodies are not found in all the papillae ; but, from their existence in those parts in which the skin is highly sensitive, it is probable that they are specially concerned in the sense of touch, though their absence Fig. XLIX.—a, Side view of a papilla of the hand, a, cortical layer; b, tactile cor- puscle, with transverse nuclei; c, small nerve of the papilla, with neurilemma ; d, its two nervous fibres running- with spiral coils around the tactile corpuscle ; e, ap- parent termination of one of these fibres. b, a tactile papilla seen from above, so as to show its transverse section, a, cortical layer ; b, nerve-fibre ; c, outer layer of the tactile body, with nuclei; d, clear interior substance. From the human subject, treated with acetic acid. Magnified 350 times. Fig1. L.—Pacinian corpuscle with its system of capsules and central cavity. a, arterial twig, ending in capillaries, which form loops in some of the iotercapsular spaces, and one pene- trates to the central capsule; b, the fibrous tissue of the stalk prolonged from the perineurium ; n, nerve-tube advancing to the central capsule, there losing its white substance, and stretch- ing alona; the axis to the opposite end, where it is fixed by a tubercular en- largement. from the papillae of other tactile parts shows that they are not essential to this sense. The Pacinian corpuscles* (fig. L.) are found in the human subject chiefly on the nerves of the fingers and toes, lying in the subcutaneous cellular tissue; but they have also been described by Rauber as con- nected with the nerves of the joints, and with the nerves lying between many of the muscles of the trunk and limbs. Each of these corpuscles is attached to and encloses the termination of a single nerve. The corpuscle, which is perfectly visible to the naked eye (and which can be most easily demonstrated in the mesentery of a cat), consists of a number of concentric layers of cellular tissue, between which Todd and Bowman have figured * Often called in German anatomical works ' corpuscles of Vater.'