352 ARTERIES. upper part of the larynx and lower part of the pharynx are also found in the front part of this space. The Submaxillary Triangle corresponds to the part of the neck immediately beneath the body of the jaw. It is bounded, above, by the lower border of the body of the jaw, the parotid gland and the mastoid process; below, by the posterior belly of the Digastric and stylo-byoid muscles ; in front, by the middle line of the neck. The floor of this space is formed by the anterior belly of the Digastric, the Mylo-hyoid, and Hyo-glossus muscles; and it is covered by the integument, superficial fascia, Platysma, and deep fascia ; ramifying between which are branches of the facial and ascending filaments of the superficial cervical nerve. This space contains, in front, the submaxillary gland, imbedded in the substance of which are the facial artery and vein, and their glandular branches; beneath this gland, on the surface of the Mylo-hyoid muscle, are the submental artery, and the mylo-hyoid artery and nerve. The back part of this space is separated from the front part by the stylo-maxillary ligament; it contains the external carotid artery, ascending deeply in the substance of the parotid gland; this vessel here lies in front of, and superficial to, the internal carotid, being crossed by the facial nerve, and gives off in its course the posterior auricular, temporal, and internal maxillary branches ; more deeply is the internal carotid, the internal jugular vein, and the pneumo- gastric nerve, separated from the external carotid by the Stylo-glossus and Stylo-pharyngeus muscles, and the glossopharyngeal nerve with its pharyngeal branch.* Posterior Triangular Space. The posterior triangular space is bounded, in front by the Sterno-mastoid muscle; behind, by the anterior margin of the Trapezius ; its base corresponds to the upper border of the clavicle ; its apex, to the occiput. The space is crossed about an inch above the clavicle, by the posterior belly of the Omo-hyoid, which divides it unequally into two, an upper or occipital, and a lower or subclavian triangle. The Occipital, the larger of the two posterior triangles, is bounded, in front by the Sterno-mastoid; behind, by the Trapezius; below, by the Omo-hyoid. Its floor is formed from above downwards by the Splenius, Levator anguli scapulae, and the middle and posterior Scaleni muscles. It is covered by the integument, the Platysma below, the superficial and deep fascia?; and crossed, above, by the ascending branches of the cervical plexus; the spinal accessory nerve is directed obliquely across the space from the Sterno-mastoid, which it pierces, to the under surface of the Trapezius ; below, the descending branches of the cervical plexus and the transversalis colli artery and vein cross the space. A chain of lymphatic glands is also found running along the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid, from the mastoid process to the root of the neck. The Subclavian, the smaller of the two posterior triangles, is bounded, above by the posterior belly of the Omo-hyoid; below, by the clavicle; its base, directed forwards, being formed by the Sterno-mastoid. The size of the subclavian triangle varies according to the extent of attachment of the clavicular portion of the Sterno-mastoid and Trapezius muscles, and also according to the height at which the Omo-hyoid crosses the neck above the clavicle. Its height also varies much, according to the position of the arm, being much diminished by raising the limb, on account of the ascent of the clavicle, and increased by drawing the arm downwards, when that bone is depressed. This space is covered by the integument, superficial and deep fascia; and crossed by the descending branches of the cervical plexus. Just above the level of the clavicle, the third * The same remark will apply to this triangle as was made about the inferior-carotid triangle. The structures enumerated, as contained in the back part of the space, lie, strictly speaking, beneath the muscles which form the posterior boundary of the triangle; but as it is very important to bear in mind their close rela tion to the parotid gland and its boundaries (on account of the frequency of surgical operations on this gland), all these parts are spoken of together.