536 SPINAL NERVES. 290.—Cutaneous Nerves of Right Upper Extremity. Posterior View. The cutaneous portion of the nerve passes behind the median cephalic vein, and divides opposite the elbow-joint, into an anterior and a posterior branch. The anterior branch descends along the radial border of the fore-arm to the wrist. It is here placed in front of the radial artery, and, piercing the deep fascia, accompanies that vessel to the back of the wrist. It communicates with a branch from the radial nerve, and the palmar cutaneous branch of the median, and distributes filaments to the integument of the ball of the thumb. The posterior branch passes downwards, along the back part of the radial side of the fore-arm to the wrist. It supplies the integu- ment of the lower third of the fore-arm, communicating with the radial nerve, and the external cutaneous branch of the mus- culo-spiral. The Internal Cutaneous Nerve (fig. 291) is one of the smallest branches of the brachial plexus. It arises from the inner cord in common with the ulnar and internal head of the median, and, at its commence- ment, is placed on the inner side of the brachial artery. It passes down the inner side of the arm, pierces the deep fascia with the basilic vein, about the middle of the limb, and, becoming cutaneous, divides into two branches. This nerve gives off, near the axilla, a cutaneous filament, which pierces the fascia and supplies the integument covering the Biceps muscle, nearly as far as the elbow. This filament lies a little external to the common trunk, from which it arises. The anterior branch, the larger of the two, passes usually in front of, but occa- sionally behind, the median basilic vein. It then descends on the anterior surface of the ulnar side of the fore-arm, distributing filaments to the integument as far as the wrist, and communicating with a cuta- neous branch of the ulnar nerve. The posterior branch passes obliquely downwards on the inner side of the basilic vein, winds over the internal condyle of the humerus to the back of the fore-arm, and descends, on the posterior surface of its ulnar side, to a little below the middle, distributing filaments to the integument. It communicates above the elbow, with the lesser internal cutaneous, and above the wrist, with the dorsal cutaneous branch of the ulnar nerve (Swan). The Lesser Internal Cutaneous Nerve (nerve of Wrisberg) (fig. 291), is distributed to the integument on the inner side of the arm. It is the smallest of the branches of the brachial plexus, and usually arises from the inner cord, with the internal cutaneous and ulnar nerves. It passes through the axillary space, at first lying behind, and then on the inner side of the axillary vein, and communicates with the intercosto-humeral nerve. It then descends