lix BONE. Valentin, and Dr. Rees, the compact substance contains more earthy matter than the cancellous. The comparative analysis of the same bones in both sexes shows no essential difference between them. There are facts of some practical interest, bearing upon the difference which seems to exist in the amount of the two constituents of bone at different periods of life. Thus, in the child, where the animal matter predominates, it is not uncommon to find, after an injury to the bones, that they become bent, or only partially broken, from the large amount of flexible animal matter which they contain. Again, in aged people, where the bones contain a large proportion of earthy matter, the animal matter at the same time being deficient in quantity and quality, the bones are more brittle, their elasticity is destined ; and hence fracture takes place more readily. Some of the diseases, also, to which bones are liable, mainly depend on the disproportion between the two constituents of bone. Thus, in the disease called rickets, so common in the children of scrofulous parents, the bones become bent and curved, either from the superincum- bent weight of the body, or under the action of certain muscles. This depends upon some defect of nutrition, by which bone becomes deprived of its normal proportion of earthy matter, whilst the animal matter is of unhealthy quality. In the vertebras of a rickety subject, Dr. Bostock found in 100 parts 79*75 animal, and 20*25 earthy matter. Development of Bone.—In the foetal skeleton, some bones, such as the long bones of the limbs, are cartilaginous ; others, as the cranial bones, are membranous.* Hence two kinds of ossification are described : the intra-cartilaginous and the intra-membranous; and to these a third is sometimes added, the subperiosteal, which is a variety of the second. In the intra-cartilaginous ossification two chief primary changes occur in the cartilage simultaneously—viz., that the cartilage becomes vascular, and that it calcifies. The vessels shoot into the cartilage from the neigh- bouring periosteum, constituting what is called 'the centre of ossification,' which is seen in injected specimens so strongly contrasted with the neigh- bouring non-vascular cartilage. The first step in the calcification of the cartilage is, that the cartilage- cells increase rapidly in number, and arrange themselves in rows, with the long axis of the cell transverse to that of the future bone (fig. XXII., a). If calcification has already advanced somewhat further, there is seen, lower down in the section, a layer of large clear cells with granular contents, which are also arranged in somewhat parallel rows, separated still by a transparent cartilaginous matrix; while still deeper down the matrix has calcified, so that, if a tranverse section be made here, rings of dark granular substance will be seen enclosing the large round cells (Rollett). As the section is taken deeper and deeper into the ossi- fying part, the calcified rings, or primary areola?, are seen to enclose numerous smaller granular masses ('primitive or foetal marrow'), which have been supposed to be developed out of the large clear cells shown * The bones which are developed entirely in membrane are the occipital, as far as it enters into the formation of the vault of the skull, the parietal and frontal bones, the squamous portion of the temporal with the tympanic ring, the Wormian bones, the nasal, lachrymal, malar, palate, upper and lower maxillary, and vomer ; also, apparently, the internal pterygoid plate and the sphenoidal turbinated bones.