479 CONVOLUTIONS OF THE BRAIN. and thev increase in number and extent through the higher orders. In man they present the most complex arrangement. Again, in the child at birth before the intellectual faculties are exercised, the convolutions have a very simple arrange- ment, presenting few undulations ; and the sulci between tliem are less deep than in the adult. In old age, when the mental faculties have diminished in activity, the convolutions become much less prominently marked. The convolutions on the outer convex surface of the hemisphere, the general direction of which is more or less oblique, are the largest and most complicated convolutions of the brain, frequently becoming branched like the letter Y in their course upwards and backwards towards the longitudinal fissure : these convolutions attain their greatest development in man, and are especially characteristic of the human brain. They are seldom symmetrical on the two sides. Each hemisphere of the brain is divided into five lobes, the division being made by the main fissures, and by imaginary lines drawn to connect them. This division, however, is only traceable on the external surface of the hemi- spheres. In this description of the divisions of the brain, the first point to be remem- bered is the external termination of the fissure of Sylvius. That fissure bifurcates, one branch running forwards into the anterior lobe, the other, the longer one, running nearly horizontally backwards. An imaginary line, continuing this branch backwards to the posterior lobe, separates from the middle lobe a few con- volutions which fill up the hollow of the middle fossa of the skull, and these are called the temporo-sphenoidal lobe (fig. 267). This, added to the old anterior, middle, and posterior lobes (now renamed frontal, parietal, and occipital), and to the island of Reil, now described as a separate lobs, raises the number of lobes from three to five. The subdivision is made by fissures which are tolerably dis- tinct. Thus the separation between the anterior, or frontal, and the parietal lobe at the base, by the fissure of Sylvius, is obvious, and the large vertical fissure (fissure of Rolando, fig. 265) which separates the frontal from the parietal lobe at the vertex is usually very plainly marked, and runs down nearly to the posterior bifurcation of the Sylvian fissure. The parietal lobe is separated from the occipital above by the parietooccipital fissure (fig. 265), which becomes indistinct below • and the separation is completed by an imaginary line, which meets another ima- ginary line, by which the posterior bifurcation of the fissure of Sylvius is con- tinued backwards, and by the junction of these two lines the lowest or tempore - sphenoidal lobe is bounded off from the upper parts of the parietal and occipital lobes. The chief convolutions which bound these several fissures are pretty constant, but the secondary convolutions, or those which form the bulk of the several lobes, vary greatly in their number and arrangement. The convolution of the corpus callosum [gyrus fornicatus, fig. 266) is always well marked. It lies parallel with the upper surface of the corpus callosum, com - mencing, in front, on the under surface of the brain in front of the anterior per - forated space; it winds round the curved border of the corpus callosum, and passes along its upper surface as far as its posterior extremity, where it is connected with the convolutions of the posterior lobe ; it then curves downwards and forwards, embracing the cerebral peduncle, passes into the middle lobe, forming the hippocampus major, and terminates just behind the point from whence it arose. The supraorbital convolution on the under surface of the anterior lobe is well marked. The convolution of the longitudinal fissure (fig. 265) bounds the margin of the fissure on the upper surface of the hemisphere. It commences on the under surface of the brain, at the anterior perforated spot, passes forwards along the inner margin of the anterior lobe, being here divided by a deep sulcus, in which the olfactory nerve is received; it then curves over the anterior and upper surface of the hemisphere, along the margin of the longitudinal fissure, to its posterior