467 SPINAL CORD. which it is very intimately adherent, forming its neurilemma, and sends a process downwards into its anterior fissure, and another, extremely delicate, 1 into the posterior fissure. It also forms a sheath for each of the filaments of the spinal nerves, and invests the nerves themselves. A longitudinal fibrous band extends along the middle line on its anterior surface, called by Haller the linea splendens ; and a somewhat similar band, the ligamentum denticulatum, is situated on each side. At the point where the cord terminates, the pia mater becomes contracted, and is continued down as a long, slender filament (Jilum terminate), which descends through the centre of the mass of nerves forming the cauda equina, and is blended with the impervious sheath of dura mater, on a level with the top of the sacral canal. It assists in maintaining the cord in its position during the movements of the trunk, and is, from this circumstance, called the central liga- ment of the spinal cord. It contains a little grey nervous substance, which may be traced for some distance into its upper part, and is accompanied by a small artery and vein. Structure. The pia mater of the cord, though less vascular than that which invests the brain, contains a network of delicate vessels in its substance. It is also supplied with nerves, which are derived from the sympathetic, and from the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. At the upper part of the cord, the pia mater presents a greyish, mottled tint, which is owing to yellowish or brown pigment cells being scattered within its tissue. The Ligamentum Denticulatum (fig. 257) is a narrow fibrous band, situated on each side of the spinal cord, throughout its entire length, and separating the anterior from the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, having received its name from the serrated appearance which it presents. Its inner border is continuous with the pia mater, at the side of the cord. Its outer border presents a series of triangular, dentated serrations, the points of which are fixed, at intervals, to the dura mater, serving to unite together the two layers of the arachnoid membrane. These serrations are about twenty in number, on each side, the first being attached to the dura mater, opposite the margin of the foramen magnum, be- tween the vertebral artery and the hypoglossal nerve; and the last near the lower end of the cord. Its use is to support the cord in the fluid by which it is surrounded. ; The Spinal Cord. The spinal cord [medulla spinalis) is the cylindrical elongated part of the cerebro- spinal axis, which is contained in the vertebral canal. Its length is usually about sixteen or seventeen inches, and its weight, when divested of its membranes and nerves, about one ounce and a half, its proportion to the encephalon being about 1 to 33. It does not nearly fill the canal in which it is contained, its investing membranes being separated from the surrounding walls by areolar tissue and a plexus of veins. It occupies, in the adult, the upper two-thirds of the vertebral canal, extending from the upper border of the atlas to the lower border of the body of the first lumbar vertebra, where it terminates in a slender filament of grey sub- stance, which is continued for some distance into the Jilum terminate. In the foetus, before the third month, it extends to the bottom of the sacral canal; but, after this period, it gradually recedes from below, as the growth of the bones composing the canal is more rapid in proportion than that of the cord; so that, in the child at birth, the cord extends as far as the third lumbar vertebra. Its position varies also according to the degree of curvature of the spinal column, being raised some- what in flexion of the spine. On examining its surface, it presents a difference in its diameter in different parts, being marked by two enlargements, an upper or cervical, and a lower or lumbar. The cervical enlargement, which is the larger, extends from the third cervical to the first dorsal vertebra : its greatest diameter is in the transverse direction, and it corresponds with the origin of the nerves which supply the upper extremities. The lower, or lumbar enlargement, is situated 11 11 2