SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE PERINEUM. 762 fossa, the internal pudic artery, with its accompanying veins and nerve, will be felt about an inch and a half above the margin of the ischiatic tuberosity, but approach- ing nearer the surface as they pass forwards along the inner margin of the pubic arch. These structures are enclosed in a sheath formed by the obturator fascia, the pudic nerve lying below the artery. Crossing the space transversely, about its centre, are the inferior hemorrhoidal vessels and nerves, branches of the pudic ; they are distributed to the integument of the anus, and to the muscles of the lower end of the rectum. These vessels are occasionally of larger size, and may give rise to troublesome haemorrhage, when divided in the operation of lithotomy, or of fistula in ano. At the back part of this space may be seen a branch of the fourth sacral nerve; and, at the fore part of the space, a cutaneous branch of the perineal nerve. Perineum. The perineal space is of a triangular form; its deep boundaries are limited, laterally, by the rami of the pubes and ischia, meeting in front at the pubic arch • behind by an imaginary transverse line, extending between the tuberosities of the ischia. The lateral boundaries vary, in the adult, from three inches to three inches and a half in length ; and the base from two to three inches and a half in breadth ; the average extent of the base being two inches and three-quarters. The variations in the diameter of this space are of extreme interest in connection with the operation of lithotomy, and the extraction of a stone from the cavity of the bladder. In those cases where the tuberosities of the ischia are near together, it would be necessary to make the incisions in the lateral operation of lithotomy less oblique than if the tuberosities were widely separated, and the perineal space, consequently, wider. The perineum is subdivided by the median raphe into two equal parts. Of these, the left is the one in which the operation of lithotomy is performed. In the middle line, the perineum is convex, and corresponds to the bulb of the urethra. The skin covering it is of a dark colour, thin, freely moveable upon the subjacent parts, and covered with sharp crisp hairs which should be removed before the dissection of the part is commenced. In front of the anus, a prominent line commences, the raphe, continuous in front with the raphe of the scrotum. The flaps of integument corresponding to this space having been removed, in the manner shown in figs. 431-4, the superficial fascia is exposed. The Superficial Fascia consists of two layers, superficial and deep, as in other regions of the body. The superficial layer is thick, loose, areolar in texture, and contains much adipose tissue in its meshes, the amount of which varies in different subjects. In front it is continuous with the dartos of the scrotum ; behind, it is continuous with the sub- cutaneous areolar tissue surrounding the anus ; and, on either side, with the same fascia on the inner side of the thighs. This layer should be carefully removed, after it has been examined, when the deep layer will be exposed. The deep layer of superficial fascia (superficial perineal fascia) is thin, aponeu- rotic in structure, and of considerable strength, serving to bind down the muscles of the root of the penis. It is continuous, in front, with the dartos of the scrotum ; on either side, it is firmly attached to the margins of the rami of the pubes and ischium, external to the crus penis, and as far back as the tuberosity of the ischium ; pos- teriorly it curves down behind the Transversus perinei muscles to join the lower margin of the deep perineal fascia. This fascia not only covers the muscles in this region, but sends clown a vertical septum from its under surface, which separates the back part of the subjacent space into two, being incomplete in front. In rupture of the anterior portion of the urethra, accompanied by extravasation of urine, the fluid makes its way forwards, beneath this fascia., into the areolar tissue of the scrotum, penis, and anterior and lateral portions of the abdomen; it rarely extends into the areolar tissue on the inner side of the thighs, or backwards around the anus. This limitation of the extravasated fluid to the parts above named is easy of explanation, when the attachments of the deep layer of the super-