Ixxvii BRAIN. tinctly fanlike structure. The fifth layer is again paler and somewhat white. It contains, however, cells and nuclei which have a general resemblance to those of the preceding layers, but they. exhibit only a faintly radiating arrangement. The sixth and most internal layer is reddish-grey. It not only abounds in cells like those already described, but contains others that are rather larger. It is only here and there that the cells are collected into elongated groups, which give the appearance of radiations. On its under side it gradually blends with the central white axis of the convolution, into which its cells are scattered for some distance. 4 The seventh layer is this central white stem or axis of the convolution. On every side it gives off bundles of fibres, which diverge in all directions, and in a fanlike manner, towards the surface, through the several grey layers. As they pass between the elongated and radiating groups of cells in the inner grey layers, some of them become continuous with the pro- cesses of the cells in the same section or plane, but others bend round and run horizontally, both in a transverse and longitudinal direction (in re- ference to the course of the entire convolution), and with various degrees of obliquity. While the bundles themselves are by this means reduced in size, their component fibres become finer in proportion as they traverse the layers towards the surface—in consequence, apparently, of branches which they give oft0 to be connected with cells in their course. Those which reach the outer grey layer are reduced to the finest dimensions, and form a close network, with which the nuclei and cells are in connection. ' Besides these fibres, which diverge from the central white axis of the convolution, another set, springing from the same source, converge or rather curve inwards from opposite sides, to form arches along some of the grey layers. These arciform fibres run in different planes—trans- versely, obliquely, and longitudinally—and appear to be partly continuous with those of the diverging set which bend round, as already stated, to follow a similar course. All these fibres establish an infinite number of communications in every direction, between different parts of each con- volution, between different convolutions, and between these and the central white substance.' Dr. Clarke then goes on to describe in detail the minuter differences which exist between the structure of the convolutions in different parts of the brain.* Cerebellum.—The cortex of the cerebellum presents a remarkable structure. Externally, beneath the pia mater is a layer of transparent tissue, like neuroglia, traversed by delicate fibres running up from the large nerve-cells found below it, and containing, like the neuroglia, granular nuclei. Some of these granules were described by Lockhart Clarke as connected with the processes of the nerve-cells, which lie immediately beneath. These are called the cells of Purkinje, and are arranged in a single layer, with nerve-fibres interspersed. Below this layer is the inner or granular layer, consisting of a thick aggregation of dark granules among a number of fine nerve-tubes. Lower down is the medullary centre, consisting mainly of fibrous nervous structure. (Fig. XC.) * See Dr. Clarke's summary of his researches on this subject in MaudLsley on the Patho- logy and Physiology of Mind, pp. 60-63.