CARPO-META CARPAL. i85 flexion), these also are effected chiefly in the latter joint or indeed entirely, if considered accurately, i.e. if the terms are limited, as in strictness they shonld be, to movements in the plane which passes through the axis of the forearm and the straight line joining the styloid processes of the radius and ulna when these bones are at rest on each other. In abduction or radial flexion, the tubercle of the scaphoid glides towards the styloid process of the radius, carrying the meniscus towards the ulnar side, till its movement is stopped by the tension of the internal lateral ligament of the wrist, and by atmospheric pressure. The same traction which pulls the hand to the radial side, exerts, however, an influence on the transverse carpal joint which produces a movement of extension or dorsi-flexion, and as the meniscus follows this movement to a slight extent, the tubercle of the scaphoid is disengaged to some degree from its contact with the styloid process of the radius, and the abduction can be then carried a little further. From this it follows that any considerable abduction of the hand must also be combined with extension. The force which produces abduction Meyer regards as being usually the resultant of the action of the combined tendons of the Flexor carpi radialis and the two Extensores carpi radiales, passing through the posterior part of the axis of the scaphoid bone. Adduction, or ulnar flexion, of the hand is less opposed than abduction. In this movement, the semilunar is drawn across the ridge on the radius drawing with it the cuneiform along the face of the triangular fibro-cartilage. This movement does not tend to separate the scaphoid very much from the radius, since the curved surface formed by the end of the radius and its styloid process, is much the same in shape as the opposed surface of the scaphoid; consequently, the movement of adduction is much more extensive and uncomplicated than that of abduction. It is easily combined with flexion or extension, by preponderating actions of the Flexor or Extensor carpi ulnaris respectively, but extension is much more easily permitted than flexion. IX. Carpo-Metacarpal Articulations. 1. Articulation of the Metacarpal Bone of the Thumb with the Trapezium. This is an arthrodial joint, which enjoys great freedom of movement, on account of the configuration of its articular surfaces, which are saddle-shaped, so that, on section, each bone appears to be received into a cavity in the other, according to the direction in which they are cut. Hence this joint is sometimes described as one ' by reciprocal reception.' Its ligaments are a capsular and synovial membrane. The Capsular Ligament is a thick but loose capsule, which passes from the circumference of the upper extremity of the metacarpal bone to the rough edge bounding the articular surface of the trapezium; it is thickest externally and behind, and lined by a separate synovial membrane. 2. Articulations of the Metacarpal Bones of the Fingers with the Carpus. The joints formed between the carpus and four inner metacarpal bones are connected together by dorsal, palmar, and interosseous ligaments. The Dorsal Ligaments, the strongest and most distinct, connect the carpal and .metacarpal bones on their dorsal surface. The second metacarpal bone receives two fasciculi, one from the trapezium, the other from the trapezoid ; the third metacarpal receives one from the os magnum; the fourth two, one from the os magnum, and one from the unciform ; the fifth receives a single fasciculus from the unciform bone. The Palmar Ligaments have a somewhat similar arrangement on the palmar surface, with the exception of the third metacarpal, which has three ligaments, an external one from the trapezium, situated above the sheath of the tendon of the Flexor carpi radialis ; a middle one, from the os magnum ; and an internal one from the unciform. The Lnterosseous Ligaments consist of short thick fibres, which are limited to one