192 ARTICULATIONS. The Posterior Ligament, Ligamentum Posticum Winslowii (fig. 142), is a broad, flat, fibrous band, which covers over the whole of the back part of the joint. It consists of a central and two lateral portions, the latter formed chiefly of vertical 141.—Eight Knee-Joint. Anterior View. 142.—Right Knee-Joint. Posterior View. fibres, which arise above from the condyles of the femur, and are connected below with the back part of the head of the tibia, being closely united with the tendons of the Gastrocnemius, Plantaris, and Popliteus muscles; the central portion is formed of fasciculi, obliquely directed and separated from one another by apertures for the passage of vessels. The strongest of these fasciculi is derived from the tendon of the Semi-membranosus, and passes from the back part of the inner tuberosity of the tibia, obliquely upwards and outwards to the back part of the outer condyle of the femur. The posterior ligament forms part of the floor of the popliteal space, and the popliteal artery rests upon it. The Internal Lateral Ligament is a broad, flat, membranous band, thicker behind than in front, and situated nearer to the back than the front of the joint. It is attached, above, to the inner tuberosity of the femur; below, to the inner tuberosity and inner surface of the shaft of the tibia, to the extent of about two inches. It is crossed, at its lower part, by the aponeurosis of the Sartorius, and the tendons of the Gracilis and Semitendinosus muscles, a synovial bursa being interposed. Its deep surface covers the anterior portion of the tendon of the Semi- membranosus, the synovial membrane of the joint, and the inferior internal arti- cular artery and nerve; it is intimately adherent to the internal semilunar fibro- cartilage. The Long External Lateral Ligament is a strong, rounded, fibrous cord, situated nearer to the back than the front of the joint. It is attached, above, to the outer tuberosity of the femur ; below, to the outer part of the head of the fibula. Its outer surface is covered by the tendon of the Biceps, which divides at its insertion into