SPINAL NERVES. 542 merits and articulations of the carpus. It supplies all the muscles of the radial and posterior brachial regions, excepting the Anconeus, Supinator longus, and Extensor carpi radial is longior. Dorsal Nerves. (Fig. 293.) The dorsal nerves are twelve in number on each side. The first appears between the first and second dorsal vertebra?, and the last between the last dorsal and first lumbar. The roots of origin of the dorsal nerves are few in number, of small size, and vary but slightly from the second to the last. Both roots are very slender; the pos- terior roots only slightly exceeding the anterior in thickness. These roots gradually increase in length from above downwards, and remain in contact with the spinal cord for a distance equal to the height of, at least, two vertebras, in the lower part of the dorsal region. They then join in the intervertebral foramen, and, at their exit, divide into two primary divisions, a posterior (dorsal), and an anterior (intercostal). The first and last dorsal nerves are peculiar in some respects (see p. 544). The posterior divisions of the dorsal nerves, which are smaller than the intercostal, pass backwards between the transverse processes, and divide into external and internal branches. The external branches increase in size from above downwards. They pass through the Longissimus dorsi, corresponding to the cellular interval between it and the Sacro-lumbalis, and supply those muscles, as well as their continuations upwards to the head, and the Levatores costarum; the five or six lower nerves also give off cutaneous filaments. The internal branches of the six upper nerves pass inwards to the interval, between the Multifidus spinas, and Semispinals dorsi muscles, which they supply; and then piercing the origin of the Rhomboidei and Trapezius, become cutaneous by the side of the spinous processes. The internal branches of the six lower nerves are distributed to the Multifidus spinas, without giving off any cutaneous filaments. The cutaneous branches of the dorsal nerves are twelve in number, the six upper being derived from the internal branches, and the six lower from the external branches. The former pierce the Rhomboid and Trapezius muscles, close to the spinous processes, and ramify in the integument. They are frequently furnished with gangliform enlargements. The six lower cutaneous branches pierce the Serratus posticus inferior, and Latissimus dorsi, in a line with the angles of the ribs. Intercostal Nerves. The intercostal nerves (anterior divisions of the dorsal nerves), are twelve in number on each side. They are distributed to the parietes of the thorax and abdo- men, separately from each other, without being joined in a plexus ; in which respect they differ from the other spinal nerves. Each nerve is connected with the adjoin- ing ganglia of the sympathetic by one or two filaments. The intercostal nerves may be divided into two sets, from the difference they present in their distribution. The six upper, with the exception of the first and the intercosto-humeral branch of the second, are limited in their distribution to the parietes of the chest. The six lower supply the parietes of the chest and abdomen. Upper Intercostal Nerves. The upper intercostal nerves pass forwards in the intercostal spaces with the intercostal vessels, being situated below them. At the back of the chest they lie between the pleura and the External intercostal muscle, but are soon placed between the two planes of intercostal muscles as far as the costal cartilages, where they lie between the pleura and the Internal intercostal muscles. Near the sternum, they cross the internal mammary artery, and Triangularis sterni, pierce the Internal