xlix CARTILAGE. iris and choroid coat of the eye, in the lungs, in the nerve-cells, in the rete mucosu.m in the dark races, and in some parts of the body—such as the areola of the nipple. Such parts are of dark colour even in the fair races, except Albinoes, in whom pigment is absent. Pigment-cells are also found in the blood, according to Virchow. In many situations the colour is produced simply by the presence of dark granules scattered about without any definite arrangement; in the inner layer of the choroid coat (or external layer of the retina) the pig- ment forms a regular layer of hexagonal nucleated cells filled with pig- ment-granules ; in other parts the pigment is contained in branching cells, probably the connective-tissue-corpuscles filled with pigment- granules ; and in most situations, such as the nerve-cells and the epidermis, the pigment-granules form a greater or less element in the contents of the nucleated cells of the part. (Fig. XXXIII.) In the dark races the colour of the skin is due to the accumulation of pigment in the deeper layers of the epidermis—the rete mucosum. CARTILAGE. Cartilage is a non-vascular structure which is found in various parts of the body—in adult life chiefly in the joints, in the parietes of the thorax, and in various tubes, such as the air-passages, nostrils, and ear, which are to be kept permanently open. In the foetus at an early period the greater part of the skeleton is cartilaginous. As this cartilage is afterwards re- placed by bone, it is called temporary, in opposition to that which remains unossified during the whole of life, and which is called permanent. Cartilage is divided according to its minute anatomy into true or hyaline cartilage, fibrous, or fibro-cartilage, and yellow, or elastic, or reti- Fig. XIV.—Human cartilage cells, from the cricoid cartilage. Magnified 350 times. cular cartilage.* The various cartilages in the body are also classified according to their function and position, into articular, interarticular, costal, and membraniform. True cartilage, which may be taken as the type of this tissue, consists of a gristly mass, of a pearly bluish colour, enveloped in a fibrous mem- * Besides these varieties of cartilage met with in the adult human subject, there is a variety called the cellular, which consists entirely or almost entirely of cells, united in some cases by a network of very fine fibres, in other cases apparently destitute of any inter- cellular substance. This is found in the external ear of the rat and some other animals, and is present in the chorda dorsalis of the human embryo, but is not found in any other human structure. c