cxxxvi GENERAL ANATOMY. These parts lie at first quite covered and concealed by those formed from the middle vesicle, and by the optic thai ami, which, with the optic nerves, the third ventricle, and the parts in its floor, are furnished by the posterior portion of the anterior vesicle (Zwischenhirn, intermediary brain, Thalamencephalon). By the third month, however, the hemi- spheres have risen above the optic thalami, and by the sixth month above the cerebellum. Fissures are seen on the surface of the hemisphere at the third month, but all except one disappear. This one persists, and forms the fissure of Sylvius. The permanent fissures for the convolutions do not form till about the seventh or eighth month. The middle cerebral vesicle (Mittelhirn, middle brain, Mesencephalon) is at first situated at the summit of the angle shown on fig. LXXXYI. Its surface, at first smooth, is soon divided by a median and transverse groove into four tubercles (tubercula quadrigemina), which are gradually covered in by the growth of the cerebral hemispheres. The cavity diminishes as its walls thicken, and contracts to form the aqueduct of Sylvius. The crura cerebri are also formed from this vesicle. The third primary cerebral vesicle is divided at an early period (between the ninth and twelfth week) into two, the anterior part (Hinterhirn, hinder brain, Epencephalon) forming the cerebellum, and a membrane (membrana obturatrix), which closes the upper part of the fourth ventricle, and which disappears as development progresses; its posterior part (Nachhirn, after-brain, Meten- cephalon) forms the medulla oblongata, with the restiform bodies and auditory nerves.*"" The development of the pituitary body has of late received much attention, and important questions of morphology are connected with this body. The description which is now accepted regards the pituitary body as the place of meeting of the epiblast, hypoblast, and mesoblast at the extremity of the notochord, and as containing rudiments from each ot these sources, or at least from the epiblast and hypoblast, for the meso- blastic elements derived from the chorda dorsalis are now said early to become displaced and to disappear. At the point where the notochord terminates anteriorly the medullary layer of the epiblast is reflected downwards to form a little pouch (if, fig. LXXXVII.) of nervous substance, the infundibulum. At the same time the hypoblast passes upwards from the pharynx, or upper end of the primitive * The above forms a short abstract of the facts hitherto observed relative to the develop- ment of the brain. But a very interesting- series of lectures by Mr. Oallender at the College of Surgeons gives a different account of the subject in some important particulars. Thus Mr. Callender lays very great stress on the pineal and pituitary bodies in the course of the development of the brain, classing them as the great centres around which the organs are grouped, and by which their position is determined. The pituitary body is anchored, as it were, at the base of the brain, just in front of the spot where the notochord terminates anteriorly, while the pineal body is anchored originally at the upper part of the future brain, near the bend of the head (about No. 9, fig. LXXXVL). The two are connected together by a tract of tissue, and the pineal centre gets covered in by the ' mantles ' or embryoual hemi- spheres, while the pituitary centre retains nearly its relative position. Another important difference in Mr. Calender's from the previous accounts is that he describes the permanent fissures in the lower part of the brain as appearing much earlier than has been previously believed (as early as ten to twelve weeks), and says that the obliteration of these fissures is apparent only, and due to their being- covered in and concealed by the tissue which is g-rowing up to form the convoluted surface of the upper portion of the hemispheres, but that they are really permanent, and that their identity with the fissures in the base of the adult brain can be verified. For many interesting* details as to the growth of various parts of the brain we must refer to the published lectures in Brit. Med. Juurn., June 1874.