757 THE FEMORAL RING. Its posterior loall is formed by the iliac fascia and the pubic portion of the fascia lata. Its outer wall is formed by the fibrous septum covering the inner side of the femoral vein. Its inner wall is formed by the junction of the transversalis and iliac fascial, which form the inner side of the femoral sheath, and cover the outer edge of Gimbernat's ligament. This canal has two orifices : a lower one, the saphenous opening, closed by the cribriform fascia; an upper one, the femoral or crural ring, closed by the septum crurale. The femoral or crural ring (fig. 430) is the upper opening of the femoral canal, and leads into the cavity of the abdomen.* It is bounded in front by Poupart's ligament and the deep crural arch; behind by the pubes, covered by the Pectineus 430.—Hernia. The Relations of the Femoral and Internal Abdominal Rings, seen from within the Abdomen. Right Side. muscle, and the pubic portion of the fascia lata ; internally, by Gimbernat's ligament, the conjoined tendon, the transversalis fascia, and the deep crural arch; externally, by the femoral vein, covered by its sheath. The femoral ring is of an oval form ; its long diameter, directed transversely, measures about half an inch, and it is larger in the female than in the male, which is one of the reasons of the greater frequency of femoral hernia in the former sex. Position of parts around the Ring. The spermatic cord in the male, and round ligament in the female, lie immediately above the anterior margin of the femoral ring, and may be divided in an operation for femoral hernia if the incision for the relief of the stricture is not of limited extent. In the female, this is of little importance, but in the male the spermatic artery and vas deferens may be divided. The femoral vein lies on the outer side of the ring. The epigastric artery, in its passage inwards from the external iliac to the umbilicus, passes across the upper and outer angle of the crural ring, and is con- sequently in danger of being wounded if the stricture is divided in a direction upwards and outwards. * This ring, like the crural canal, is a morbid or an artificial product. ' Each femoral hernia makes for itself (for neither outlet exists in the natural anatomy of the region) a crural canal, and a crural (^femoral) ring/—Callender, op. cit., p. 40.