ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 6i6 mucous tissue (blastema, or corium) of the infantile jaw springs up to meet it out of the bottom of the dental groove. This projection was described, by Goodsir, as a row of separate papilla?. It is now described, after Dursy and Waldeyer, as a ridge, the intervening parts of which are atrophied, so as to leave papillae, which become coated all over by the enamel organ, and thus the saccular stage of the teeth is produced, the papilla? which are to form the bulk of the teeth being coated with a vascular connective tissue, isolated by the enamel organ, and separated from each other by the growing tissue of the fetal jaw. The next step is the formation of the odontoblasts, which have a relation to the development of the teeth similar to that of the osteoblasts to the formation of bone. These are large nucleated cells of elongated form and provided with numerous processes developed from the cells of the dental papilla, which at that early stage consist of a fine fibrous tissue containing a number of cells, likened by Waldeyer to the structure cf old atrophied umbilical cords, the elastic tissue only being absent. The odonto- blasts send out processes, which, as they grow, become calcified externally, the calcified portion forming the ivory, 334,—Dental Sac of a Human Embryo at an advanced Stage of Development, partly dia- grammatic. 335.—Canine Tooth of Man, presenting a Portion of the Transverse Section of the Root, Wall of the sac, formed of connective tissue with its outer stratum o1 and its inner a-, b. Enamel organ, with its papillary and parietal layer of cells, c, d. The enamel-membrane and enamel-prisms, e. Dentine cells. /. Dental germ and capillaries, g, i. Transition of the wall of the follicle into the tissue of the dental germ. Cement with large lacunas and parallel strife. 2. In terglobular substance. 3. Dentinal tubules. (Mag- nified 300 diams.) the uncalcifiecl part the dentinal fibres (Tomes's fibres), and the lateral processes the branches of anastomosis whereby the dentinal canals anastomose. The remains of the odontoblasts themselves form what is known as the ' membrana eboris ' of Kolliker, a cellular layer which forms the investment of the pulp lying between its nerves and vessels and the dentine. The cement is ordinary bone, containing canaliculi and lacuna?, and developed from the deeper tissues of the foetal jaw, exactly as bone is produced in other parts of the body by periosteal ossification. Haversian canals are found, according to Salter, where the cement is thick. The germs of the milk teeth make their appearance in the following order : at the seventh week, the germ of the first molar of the upper jaw appears ; at the eighth week, that for the canine tooth is developed : the two incisor papilla? appear