301 INTERNAL FEMORAL REGION. pelvis. The Quadriceps extensor extends the leg upon the thigh. Taking its fixed point from the leg, as in standing, this muscle will act upon the femur, supporting it perpendicularly upon the head of the tibia, and thus maintaining the entire weight of the body. The Rectus muscle assists the Psoas and Iliacus, in supporting the pelvis and trunk upon the femur, or in bending it forwards. 192.—Deep Muscles of the Internal Femoral Region. Internal Femoral Region. Gracilis. Pectineus. Adductor Longus. Adductor Brevis. Adductor Magnus. Dissection. These muscles are at once ex- posed by removing the fascia from the fore part and inner side of the thigh. The limb should be abducted, so as to render the muscles tense, and easier of dissection. The Gracilis (figs. 191, 194) is the most superficial muscle on the inner side of the thigh. It is thin and flattened, broad above, narrow and tapering below. It arises by a thin aponeurosis between two and three inches in breadth, from the inner margin of the ramus of the pubes and ischium. The fibres pass vertically downwards, and terminate in a rounded tendon which passes behind the internal condyle of the femur, and curving round the inner tuberosity of the tibia, becomes flattened, and is inserted into the upper part of the inner surface of the shaft of the tibia, below the tuberosity. The ten- don of this muscle is situated immediately above that of the Semitendinosus, and beneath the aponeurosis of the Sartorius, with which it is in part blended. As it passes across the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, it is separated from it by a synovial bursa common to it and the Semitendinosus muscle. Relations. By its sujyerfcial surface, with the fascia lata and the Sartorius be- low ; the internal saphenous vein crosses it obliquely near its lower part, lying superficial to the fascia lata. The ante- rior crural nerve emerges between its ten- don and that of the Sartorius. By its deep surface, with the three Adductors, and the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The Pectineus (fig. 191) is a flat quad- rangular muscle, situated at the anterior part of the upper and inner aspect of the thigh. It arises from the linca ilio-pecti- nea, from the surface of bone in front of it, between the pectineal eminence and spine of the pubes, and from a tendinous pro- longation of Gimbernat's ligament, which