THE THYROID GLAND. tribtited in the interlobular areolar tissue, and terminate partly in the deep, partly in the superficial, bronchial veins. Lastly, some ramify upon the walls of the smallest bronchial tubes, and terminate in the pulmonary veins. The Superficial and Deep Bronchial Veins unite at the root of the lung, and terminate on the right side in the vena azygos; on the left side, in the superior intercostal vein. According to Dr. Waters, the bronchial veins do not exist within the proper substance of the lung, but commence at or near the root of the lung, by branches which lie on the large bronchial tubes. He also denies that the bronchial arteries contribute to the formation of the pulmonary plexus, believing that the communica- tion between the bronchial and pulmonary system of vessels takes place in the pul- monary veins. If this view be correct, almost the whole of the blood carried by the bronchial arteries must be returned to the heart by the pulmonary veins, and thus the great mass of pure, or arterial, blood which is carried by the pulmonary vehis would be adulterated by a small quantity of carbonised or venous blood which has passed through the bronchial circulation. The Lymphatics consist of a superficial and deep set: they terminate at the root of the lung, in the bronchial glands. Nerves. The lungs are supplied from the anterior and posterior pulmonary plexuses, formed chiefly by branches from the sympathetic and pneumogastric. The filaments from these plexuses accompany the bronchial tubes, upon which they are lost. Small ganglia are found upon these nerves. Thyroid Gland. The thyroid gland bears much resemblance in structure to other glandular organs, and is usually classified together with the thymus, suprarenal capsules, and spleen, under the head of ductless glands, since it has no excretory duct. Its func- tion is unknown, but, from its situation in connection with the trachea and larynx, the thyroid body is usually described with those organs, although it takes no part in the function of respiration. It is situated at the upper part of the trachea, and con- sists of two lateral lobes, placed one on each side of that tube, and connected together by a narrow transverse portion, the isthmus. Its anterior surface is convex, and covered by the Sterno-hyoid, Sterno-thyroid, and Omo-hyoid muscles. Its lateral surfaces, also convex, lie in contact with the sheath of the common carotid artery. Its posterior surface is concave, and embraces the trachea and larynx. The posterior borders of the gland extend as far back as the lower part of the pharynx. The thyroid is of a brownish-red colour. Its weight varies from one to two ounces. It is larger in females than in males, and becomes slightly increased in size during menstruation. It occasionally becomes enormously hypertrophied, con- stituting the disease called bronchocele, or goitre. Each lobe is somewhat conical in shape, about two inches in length, and three-quarters of an inch in breadth, the right lobe being the larger of the two. The isthmus connects the lower third of the two lateral lobes ; it measures about half an inch in breadth, and the same in depth, and usually covers the second and third rings of the trachea. Its situation presents, however, many variations, a point of importance in the operation of tracheotomy. Sometimes the isthmus is altogether wanting. A third lobe, of conical shape, called the pyramid, occasionally arises from the left side of the upper part of the isthmus, or from the left lobe, and ascends as high as the hyoid bone. It is occasionally quite detached, or divided into two parts, or altogether wanting. A few muscular bands are occasionally found attached, above, to the body of the