650 OKGANS OF DIGESTION. into two parts by a deep notch (sometimes a canal), which lodges the inferior vena cava, and into which open the hepatic veins. The round ligament (fig. 364) is a fibrous cord resulting from the obliteration of the umbilical vein. It ascends from the umbilicus, in the anterior free margin of the longitudinal ligament, to the notch in the anterior border of the liver, from which it may be traced along the longitudinal fissure on the under surface of the liver, as far back as the inferior vena cava. Fissures (fig. 364).—Five fissures are seen upon the under surface of the liver, which serve to divide it into five lobes. They are the longitudinal fissure, the 364.—The Liver. Under Surface. fissure of the ductus venosus, the transverse fissure, the fissure for the gall-bladder, and the fissure for the vena cava. The longitudinal fissure is a deep groove, which extends from the notch on the anterior margin of the liver to the posterior border of the organ. It separates the right and left lobes ; the transverse fissure joins it, at right angles, about one third from its posterior extremity, and divides it into two parts. The anterior half is called the umbilical fissure ; it is deeper than the posterior part, and lodges the umbilical vein in the foetus, or its remains (the round ligament) in the adult. This fissure is often partially bridged over by a prolongation of the hepatic substance, the pons hepatis. The fissure of the ductus venosus is the back part of the longitudinal fissure • it is shorter and shallower than the anterior portion. It lodges in the foetus the ductus venosus, and in the adult a slender fibrous cord, the obliterated remains of that vessel. The transverse or portal fissure is a short but deep fissure, about two inches in length, extending transversely across the under surface of the right lobe, nearer to its posterior than its anterior border. It joins, nearly at right angles, with the longitudinal fissure. By the older anatomists this fissure was considered the gateway (porta) of the liver; hence the large vein which enters at this point was called the portal vein. Besides this vein, the fissure transmits the hepatic artery and nerves, and the hepatic duct and lymphatics. At their entrance into the fissure, the hepatic duct lies in front to the right, the hepatic artery to the left, and the portal vein behind and between (fig. 370). The fissure for the gall-bladder (fossa cystis feUece) is a shallow, oblong fossa, placed on the under surface of the right lobe, parallel with the longitudinal fissure.