ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 654 the biliary ducts commence within the lobules by a plexus of intralobular channels, but they differ as to the relations between these channels and the hepatic cells; the one, which we will call Beale's view, teaches that the hepatic cells are contained within the intralobular biliary channels ; 3. the other view, which we may call Hering's, teaches that the intralobular biliary channels lie between the hepatic cells. This anatomist has given what appears the most intelligible description of the minute anatomy of the liver, and one which really coincides in many essential points with the original de- scription of "Kiernan, as well as with that of Beale. Hering describes the liver cells as lying packed together in the channels which are formed between the meshes of the capillary blood-vessels (fig. 367), but separated from the wall of the capillary by a clear space. In the centre of the line which forms the base of a pair of cells (or more rarely in the human subject in the angle formed by the meeting of several cells) a minute channel is formed which is the radicle of the bile duct, the intralobular biliary channel, much smaller than the capillary or the hepatic cells. Kiernan's view would confine the name of biliary ducts to the bile passages external to the lobule (interlobular), while Beale's view would regard the whole intercapillary channel, bile cells and all, as an intralobular biliary passage. Hering's view is in most respects the same as Chrzonszczewsky's, who first succeeded in demonstrating these intralobular (or intercellular) biliary pas- sages by a kind of auto-injection in living animals—i.e. by injecting colouring matter into the blood of the living animal, when the colouring matter may be found in the bile ducts. The ducts form a plexus (interlobular) between the lobules; and the interlobular branches unite and form vaginal branches, which lie in the portal canals, with branches of the portal vein and hepatic duct. The ducts finally form two large trunks, which leave the liver at the transverse fissure, and the union of these is the hepatic duct. The Portal vein, on entering the liver at the transverse fissure, divides into primary branches, which are contained in the portal canals, together with branches of the hepatic artery and duct, and the nerves and lymphatics. In the larger portal canals, the vessels are separated from the parietes, and joined to each other by a loose cellular web, the cap- sule of Glisson. The veins, as they lie in the portal canals, give off vaginal branches, which form a plexus (vaginal plexus) in Glisson's capsule. From this plexus, and from the portal vein itself, the interlobular veins are given off. The Hepatic artery appears destined chiefly for the nutrition of the coats of the large vessels, the ducts, and the investing membranes of the liver. It enters the liver at the transverse fissure, with the portal vein and hepatic duct, and ramifies with these vessels through the portal canals. It gives off vaginal branches, which ramify in the capsule of Glisson ; and other branches, which are distributed to the coats of the vena porta? and hepatic duct. From the vaginal plexus, interlobular branches are given off, which ramify through the interlobular fissures, a few branches being distributed to the lobules. Kiernan supposes that the branches of the hepatic artery terminate in a capillary plexus, which communicates with the branches of the vena portse. Microscopical section from the liver of a child three months old, hardened in chronic acid. The hepatic cells (b), with their single nuclei, are separated from the capillary wall by a small intervening space. The capillaries (a) contain closely compressed coloured, and a few colourless, blood corpuscles. A few elongated nuclei belonging to the capillary wall are seen. Within the line of junction (septum), between two hepatic cells, the transverse section of a biliary duct is seen as a small transparent space (c). There is also one at the angle, where several of these cells come into contact (d).