NERVOUS SYSTEM. 49ยง at its anterior part. It is surrounded by white fibres; white fibres are also contained in its interior, which issue from it to join the superior peduncles. The peduncles of the cerebellum, superior, middle, and inferior, serve to connect it with the rest of the encephalon. The superior peduncles [processus e cerebello ad testes) connect the cerebellum with the cerebrum; they pass forwards and upwards to the testes, beneath which they ascend to the crura cerebri and optic thalami, forming part of the diverg- ing cerebral fibres : each peduncle forms part of the lateral boundary of the fourth ventricle, and is con- nected with its fellow of the opposite side by the valve of Vieussens. The peduncles are continuous behind with the folia of the inferior vermiform pro- cess, and with the white fibres in the interior of the corpus dentatum. Beneath the corpora quadrigemina, the innermost fibres of each peduncle decussate with each other, so that some fibres from the right half of the cerebellum are continued to the left half of the cerebrum. The inferior peduncles (processus ad medullam) connect the cerebellum with the medulla oblongata. They pass downwards, to the back part of the medulla, and form part of the restiform bodies. Above, the fibres of each process are connected chiefly with the laminse, on the upper surface of the cerebellum ; and below, they are connected with all three tracts of one half of the medulla; and, through these, with the corresponding half of the cord, excepting the posterior median columns. The middle peduncles (processus ad pontem), the largest of the three, connect together the two hemispheres of the cerebellum, forming their great transverse commissure. They consist of a mass of curved fibres, which arise in the lateral parts of the cerebellum, and pass across to the same points on the opposite side. They form the transverse fibres of the pons Varolii. Fourth Ventricle. (Fig. 272.) The fourth ventricle, or ventricle of the cerebellum, is the space between the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata and pons in front, and the cerebellum behind. It is lozenge-shaped, being contracted above and below, and broadest across its central part. It is bounded laterally by the processus e cerebello ad testes above, and by the diverging posterior pyramids and restiform bodies below. The roof is arched j it is formed by the valve of Vieussens and the under surface of the cerebellum, which presents, in this situation, four small eminences or lobules, the nodulus, uvula, and amygdala?. The anterior boundary, or floor, is formed by the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata and pons. In the median line is seen the posterior median fissure, which becomes gradually obliterated above, and terminates below in the point of the calamus scriptorius, formed by the convergence of the posterior pyramids. At this point is the orifice of a short canal terminating in a cul-de- sac, the remains of the canal which extends in foetal life through the centre