xliv GENERAL ANATOMY. ment from the surface, preceded possibly by their bursting and discharging their contents, or by various forms of degeneration, fatty, pigmentary, or calcareous. Cells are held together either by anastomosis of their processes, by intercellular substance semi-fluid, hyaline, or of various higher forms which are, in fact, metamorphosed cells, or by direct contact of their walls.* CELLULAR AND FIBROUS TISSUE. The cellular or areolar tissue is so called because its meshes are easily distended, and thus separated into cells or spaces which all open freely into each other, and are consequently easily blown up with air, or per- meated by fluid, when injected into any part of the tissue. Such spaces, however, do not exist in the natural condition of the body, but the whole tissue forms one unbroken membrane composed of a number of interlacing fibres, variously superimposed. Hence the old term 6 the cellular mem- brane ' is in many parts of the body more appropriate than its more modern equivalents. The chief use of the cellular tissue is to bind parts together; while by the laxity of its fibres and the permeability of its areolae it allows them to move on each other, and affords a ready exit for inflammatory and other effused fluids. It is consequently often denomi- nated connective tissue, and this term is still more appropriate to the fibrous tissue which forms the bond of connection between the intimate elements of solid organs ; in which more restricted sense the term is often used in modern works. The areolar tissue consists essentially of two forms of fibrous tissue, the white and yellow, intermixed in varying pro- portions together with a great quantity of capillary vessels, nerves, and lymphatics, and in most situations it contains fat. The cellular tissue is continuous over the whole body ; so that fluid, and especially air, when injected forcibly into it—as from a wound of the lung or bowel—may be diffused into the remotest parts. The white fibrous tissue (Fig. VI.) consists of bundles of wavy fibres, interlacing with each other, each composed of minute filaments, or fibrillw, Fig. VI.—White fibrous tissue. High power. which appear homogeneous, and measure from 5-^ oTTo t° Tohji) °^ an mc^ in diameter. The larger fibres have no definite size, but are supposed to be solid masses formed by an agglutination, as it were, of the ultimate * The above is abbreviated from the admirably clear description in Kirkes's ' Physiology ' by Morrant Baker.