THE TESTIS. 727 distinct fold. From the posterior border of the gland, it is reflected on to the internal surface of the scrotum. The parietal portion of the serous membrane (tunica vaginalis reflexa) is far more extensive than the visceral portion, extending upwards, for some distance in front, and on the inner side of the cord, and reaching below the testis. The inner surface of the tunica vaginalis is free, smooth, and covered by a layer of squamous epithelium. The interval between the visceral and parietal layers of this membrane constitutes the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. The Tunica Albuginea is the fibrous covering of the testis. It is a dense fibrous membrane, of a bluish-white colour, composed of bundles of white fibrous tissue, which interlace in every direction. Its outer surface is covered by the tunica vaginalis, except along its posterior border, and at the points of attachment of the epididymis; hence the tunica albuginea is usually considered as a fibro-serous membrane, like the dura mater and pericardium. This membrane surrounds the glandular structure of the testicle, and, at its posterior and upper border, is reflected into the interior of the gland, forming an incomplete vertical septum called the mediastinum testis {corpus Highmorianum). The mediastinum testis extends from the upper, nearly to the lower border of the gland, and is wider above than below. From the front and sides of this septum, numerous slender fibrous cords {trabeculm) are given off, which pass to be attached j to the inner surface of the tunica albuginea : they serve to maintain the form of the testis, and join with similar cords given off from the inner surface of the tunica albuginea, to form spaces which enclose the separate lobules of the organ. The medi- astinum supports the vessels and ducts of the testis in their passage to and from the substance of the gland. The Tunica Vasculosa (pia mater testis) is the vascular layer of the testis, consist- ing of a plexus of blood-vessels, held together by a delicate areolar tissue. It covers the inner surface of the tunica albuginea, sending off numerous processes between the lobules, which are supported by the fibrous prolongations from the mediastinum testis. Structure. The glandular structure of the testis consists of numerous lobules (lobuli testis). Their number, in a single testis, is estimated by Berres at 250, and by Krause at 400. They differ in size according to their position, those in the middle of the gland being larger and longer. The lobules are conical in shape, the base being directed towards the circumference of the organ, the apex towards the mediastinum. Each lobule is contained in one of the intervals between the fibrous cords and vascular processes, which extend between the mediastinum testis and the tunica albuginea, and consists of from one to three, or more, minute convoluted tubes, the tubuli seminiferi. The tubes may be separately unravelled, by careful dissection under water, and may be seen to commence either by free caecal ends, or by anasto- motic loops. The total number of tubes is considered by Munro to be about 300, and the length of each about sixteen feet ; by Lauth, their number is estimated at 840, and their average length two feet and a quarter. Their diameter varies from g^th to T^oth of an inch. The tubuli are pale in colour in early life, but, in old age, they acquire a deep yellow tinge, from containing much fatty matter. They consist of a basement membrane, lined by epithelium consisting of nucleated glandu- lar corpuscles, and are enclosed in a delicate plexus of capillary vessels. In the apices of the lobules, the tubuli become less convoluted, assume a nearly straight course, and unite together to form from twenty to thirty larger ducts, of about ^Vth of an inch in diameter, and these, from their straight course, are called vasa recta. The vasa recta enter the fibrous tissue of the mediastinum, and pass upwards and backwards, forming, in their ascent, a close network of anastomosing tubes, with exceedingly thin parietes ; this constitutes the rete testis. At the upper end of the mediastinum, the vessels of the rete testis terminate in from twelve to fifteen or twenty ducts, the vasa efferentia : they perforate the tunica albuginea, and carry the seminal fluid from the testis to the epididymis. Their course is at first straight,