THE PERITONEUM. verse colon, and, passing to the back part of the abdominal cavity, forms the inferior layer of the transverse meso-colon. It then descends in front of the duodenum, the aorta, and vena cava, as far as the superior mesenteric artery, along which it passes to invest the small intestines, and, returning to the vertebral column, forms the mesentery ; whilst, on either side, it covers the ascending and descending colon, and is thus continuous with the peritoneum lining the walls of the abdomen. From the root of the mesentery, it descends along the front of the spine into the pelvis, and surrounds the upper part of the rectum, which it holds in its position by means of a distinct fold, the meso-rectum. Its course in the male and female now differs. 545- -The Reflections of the Peritoneum, as seen in a vertical Section of the Abdomen. In the male, it forms a fold between the rectum and bladder, the recto-vesical fold, and ascends over the posterior surface of the latter organ as far as its summit. In the female, it descends into the pelvis in front of the rectum, covers a small part of the posterior wall of the vagina, and is then reflected on to the uterus, the fund as and body of which it covers. From the sides of the uterus, it is reflected on each side to the wall of the pelvis, forming the broad ligaments j and from the anterior surface of the uterus it ascends upon the posterior wall of the bladder as far as its summit. From this point it may be traced, as in the male, ascending upon the anterior parietes of the abdomen, to the under surface of the Diaphragm ; from which it is reflected upon the liver, forming the upper layer of the coronary, and the lateral and longitudinal ligaments. It then covers the upper and under surfaces of the liver, and at the transverse fissure becomes continuous with the anterior layer of the lesser omentum, the point whence its reflection was originally traced. The posterior layer of the lesser omentum descends to the lesser curvature of