PROFUNDA. 4*3 anastomosing by a great number of branches with the lower branches of the femoral (mus- cular and anastomotica magna), and with the articular branches of the popliteal. The branches from the external circumflex are extremely large and numerous, one very distinct anastomosis can be traced between this artery on the outside, and the anastomotica magna on the inside, through the intervention of the superior external articular artery with which they both anastomose, and blood reaches even the anterior tibial recurrent from the external cir- cumflex by means of an anastomosis with the same external articular artery. The perforating branches of the profunda are also seen bringing blood round the obliterated portion of the artery into long branches (muscular) which have been given off* just below that portion. The termination of the profunda itself anastomoses most freely with the superior external articular. A long branch of anastomosis is also traced down from the internal iliac by means of the comes nervi ischiadici of the sciatic which anastomoses on the popliteal nerves with branches from the popliteal and posterior tibial arteries. In this case the anastomosis had been too free, since the pulsation and growth of the aneurism recurred, and the patient died after ligature of the external iliac. There is an interesting preparation in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, of a limb on which John Hunter had tied the femoral artery fifty years before the patient's death. The whole of the superficial femoral and popliteal artery seems to have been obliterated. The anastomosis by means of the comes nervi ischiadici, which is shown in Porta's plate, is distinctly seen : the external circumflex, and the termination of the profunda artery, seem to have been the chief channels of anastomosis ; but the injection has not been a very successful one. Branches. The branches of the femoral artery are the Superficial epigastric. Superficial circumflex iliac. Superficial external puclic. Deep external pudic. f External circumflex. Profunda. <^ Internal circumflex. I Three perforating. Muscular. Anastomotica magna. The superficial epigastric arises from the femoral, about half an inch below Poupart's ligament, and, passing through the saphenous opening in the fascia lata, ascends on to the abdomen, in the superficial fascia covering the external oblique muscle, nearly as high as the umbilicus. It distributes branches to the inguinal glands, the superficial fascia and the integument, anastomosing with branches of the deep epigastric and internal mammary arteries. The superficial circumflex iliac, the smallest of the cutaneous branches, arises close to the preceding, and, piercing the fascia lata, runs outwards, parallel with Poupart's ligament, as far as the crest of the ilium, dividing into branches which, supply the integument of the groin, the superficial fascia, and inguinal glands, anastomosing with the circumflex iliac, and with the gluteal and external circum- flex arteries. The superficial external pudic (superior) arises from the inner side of the femoral artery, close to the preceding vessels, and, after piercing the fascia lata at the saphenous opening, passes inwards, across the spermatic cord, to be distributed to the integument on the lower part of the abdomen, the penis and scrotum in the male, and the labium in the female, anastomosing with branches of the internal pudic. The deep external pudic (inferior), more deeply seated than the preceding, passes inwards on the Pectineus muscle, covered by the fascia lata, which it pierces oppo- site the ramus of the pubes, its branches being distributed, in the male, to the integument of the scrotum and perinseum, and in the female, to the labium, ana- stomosing with branches of the superficial perineal artery. The Profunda Femoris (deep femoral artery) nearly equals the size of the superficial femoral. It arises from the outer and back part of the femoral artery, from one to two inches below Poupart's ligament. It at first lies on the outer side of the superficial femoral, and then passes behind it and the femoral vein to the inner side of the femur, and terminates at the lower third of the thigh in a small branch, which pierces the Adductor niaguus (and from this circumstance is some-