CRANIAL NERVES. 5*6 The communications of the facial nerve may be thus arranged :— In the internal auditory meatus . With the auditory nerve. In the aquaeductus Fallopii At its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen . On the face . f With Meckel's ganglion by the large j petrosal nerve. I With the otic ganglion by the small I petrosal nerve. With the sympathetic on the middle me- L ningeal by the external petrosal nerve. /With the pneumogastric. glosso-pharyngeal. „ carotid plexus. ,, auricularis magnus. auriculo-temporal. With the three divisions of the fifth. In the internal auditory meatus, some minute filaments pass between the facial and auditory nerves. Opposite the hiatus Fallopii, the gangliform enlargement on the facial nerve communicates, by means of the large petrosal nerve, with Meckel's ganglion, form- ing its motor root; by a filament from the small petrosal, with the otic ganglion; and by the external petrosal, with the sympathetic filaments accompanying the middle meningeal artery (Bidder). From the gangliform enlargement, according to Arnold, a twig is sent back to the auditory nerve. At its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen, it sends a twig to the pneumogastric, another to the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and communicates with the carotid plexus of the sympathetic, with the great auricular branch of the cervical plexus, with the auriculo-temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve in the parotid gland, and on the face with the terminal branches of the three divisions of the fifth. Branches of Distribution. Within the aquseductus Fallopii At its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen .... On the face ( Tympanic. ( Chorda tympani. ( Posterior auricular. .Digastric. Stylo-hyoid. Temporo-facial. Cervico-facial (Temporal, j Malar. (Infraorbital. (Buccal. •j Supramaxillary. (Inframaxillary. The Tympanic hrancli arises from the nerve opposite the pyramid ; it is a small filament, which supplies the Stapedius and Laxator tympani muscles. The Chorda tympani is given off from the facial as it passes vertically downwards at the back of the tympanum, about a quarter of an inch before its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen. It passes from below upwards in a distinct canal, parallel with the aquseductus Fallopii, and enters the cavity of the tympanum, through an opening (iter chorda? posterius) between the base of the pyramid and the attachment of the membrana tympani, and becomes invested with mucous membrane. It passes forwards through the cavity of the tympanum, between the handle of the malleus and vertical ramus of the incus, to its anterior inferior angle, and emerges from that cavity through a foramen at the inner side of the Glaserian fissure which is called the iter chordse anterius, or canal of Huguier. It then descends between the two Pterygoid muscles, and meets the gustatory nerve at an acute angls, after communi-