ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 620 ascending palatine and tonsillar from the facial, the ascending pharyngeal from the external carotid, and the descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary. The veins terminate in the tonsillar plexus, on the outer side of the tonsil. The nerves are derived from the fifth, and from the glosso-pharyngeal. The Salivary Glands. (Fig. 340.) The principal salivary glands communicating with the mouth, and pouring their secretion into its cavity, are the parotid, submaxillary, and sublingual. The Parotid gland, so called from being placed near the ear (irapa, near; ovc, throe, the ear), is the largest of the three salivary glands, varying in weight from half an ounce to an ounce. It lies upon the side of the face, immediately below and in front of the external ear. It is limited above by the zygoma; below, by the angle of the jaw, and by a horizontal line drawn between it and the mastoid process : anteriorly, it extends to a variable extent over the Masseter muscle ; posteriorly, it is bounded by the external meatus, the mastoid process, and the Sterno-mastoid and Digastric muscles, slightly overlapping the former. 340.—The Salivary Glands. Its anterior surface is grooved to embrace the posterior margin of the ramus of the lower jaw, and advances forwards beneath the ramus, between the two ptery- goid muscles. Its outer surface, slightly lobulated, is covered by the integument and fascia, and has one or two lymphatic glands resting on it. Its inner surface extends deeply into the neck, by means of two large processes, one of which dips behind the styloid process, and projects beneath the mastoid process and the Sterno-mastoid muscle; the other is situated in front of the styloid process, and passes into the back part of the glenoid fossa, behind the articulation of the lower jaw. Embedded in its substance is the external carotid artery, which ascends behind the ramus of the jaw; the posterior auricular artery emerges from the gland behind ; the temporal artery above; the transverse facial in front; and the internal