7i4 THE URINARY ORGANS. male. When moderately distended, it measures about five inches in length, and three inches across, and the ordinary amount which it contains is about a pint. The bladder is divided into a summit, body, base, and neck. The summit, or apex, of the bladder is rounded and directed forwards and upwards; it is connected to the umbilicus by a fibro-muscular cord, the urachus, and also by means of two rounded fibrous cords, the obliterated portions of the hypogastric arteries, which are placed one on each side of the urachus. The sum- mit of the bladder behind the urachus is covered by peritoneum, whilst the portion in front of the urachus has no peritoneal covering, but rests upon the abdominal wail. The urachus is the obliterated remains of a tubular canal which exists in the embryo, and connects the cavity of the bladder with a membranous sac placed 411.—Vertical Section of Bladder, Penis, and Urethra. external to the abdomen, opposite the umbilicus, called the allantois. In the infant, at birth, it is occasionally found pervious, so that the mine escapes at the umbilicus, and calculi have been found in its canal. The body of the bladder in front is not covered by peritoneum, and is in relation with the triangular ligament of the urethra, the posterior surface of the symphysis pubis, the Internal obturator muscles, and, when distended, with the abdominal parietes. The posterior surface is covered by peritoneum throughout. It corresponds, in the male, with the rectum ; in the female, with the uterus, some convolutions of the small intestine being interposed. The side of the bladder is crossed obliquely from below, upwards and forwards, by the obliterated hypogastric artery : above and behind this cord, the bladder is covered by peritoneum ; but below and in front of it the serous covering is wanting, and it is connected to the pelvic fascia. The vas deferens passes, in an arched direc- tion, from before backwards, along the side of the bladder, towards its base, crossing in its course the obliterated hypogastric artery, and passing along the inner side of the ureter,