THE SKELETON. ©4 within of cancellous tissue enclosed in a layer of compact bone. Each bone is also developed from a single centre of ossification. Bones of the Upper Row. (Figs. 94, 95.) The Scaphoid is the largest bone of the first row. It has received its name from its fancied resemblance to a boat, being broad at one end, and narrowed like a prow at the opposite. It is situated at the upper and outer part of the carpus, its direction being from above downwards, outwards, and forwards. The superior surface is convex, smooth, of triangular shape, and articulates with the lower end of the radius. The inferior surface, directed downwards, outwards, and backwards, is smooth, convex, also triangular, and divided by a slight ridge into two parts, the external of which articulates with the trapezium, the inner with the trapezoid. The posterior or dorsal surface presents a narrow, rough groove, which runs the entire breadth of the bone, and serves for the attachment of ligaments. The anterior or palmar surface is concave above, and elevated at its lower and outer part into a prominent rounded tubercle, which projects forwards from the front of the carpus, and gives attachment to the anterior annular ligament of the wrist. The external surface is rough and narrow, and gives attachment to the external lateral ligament of the wrist. The internal surface presents two articular facets : of these, the superior or smaller one is flattened, of semilunar form, and articulates with the semilunar; the inferior or larger is concave, forming, with the semilunar bone, a concavity for the head of the os magnum. Lay it with the dorsal surface, i.e., the narrow non-articular grooved surface, on the table, and the convex radial articular surface towards you. The tubercle is outwards, i.e., points to the side to which the bone belongs.* Articulations. With five bones : the radius above, trapezium and trapezoid below, Os magnum and semilunar internally. The Semilunar bone may be distinguished by its deep concavity and crescentic outline. It is situated in the centre of the upper row of the carpus, between the scaphoid and cuneiform. The superior surface, convex, smooth, and bounded by four edges, articulates with the radius. The inferior surface is deeply concave, and of greater extent from before backwards than transversely ; it articulates with the head of the os magnum, and by a long narrow facet (separated by. a ridge from the general surface) with the unciform bone. The anterior or palmar and posterior or dorsal surfaces are rough, for the attachment of ligaments, the former being the broader, and of somewhat rounded form. The external surface presents a narrow, flattened, semilunar facet, for articulation with the scaphoid. The internal surface is marked by a smooth, quadrilateral facet, for articulation with the cuneiform. Lay it with the broader non-articular surface upwards and the semilunes forwards (i.e., away from you). The broader semilunar surface, that for the os magnum, will be on the side to which the bone belongs. If the ridge between the two semilunes is absent or ill-marked, the crescentic surface for the scaphoid will be on the side to which the bone belongs. Articidations. With five bones : the radius above, os magnum and unciform below, scaphoid and cuneiform on either side. The Cuneiform {VOs Pyramidal) may be distinguished by its pyramidal shape, and by its having an oval, isolated facet, for articulation with the pisiform bone. It is situated at the upper and inner side of the carpus. The superior surface presents an internal, rough, non-articular portion; and an external or articular portion, which is convex, smooth, and separated from the lower end of the ulna by the interarticular fibro-cartilage of the wrist. The inferior surface, directed out- wards, is concave, sinuously curved, and smooth for articulation with the unciform. The posterior or dorsal surface is rough, for the attachment of ligaments. The anterior or palmar surface presents, at its inner side, an oval facet, for articulation * In these directions each bone is supposed to be placed as it would be if the hand were laid supine on the table in front of the student, with the wrist towards him.