ARTERIES. lies beneath the Flexor carpi ulnaris, ascending , beneath the ulnar nerve ; it supplies the neigh - 225.—Arteries of the Back of the Forearm and Hand. Descending .Branch from Anastonwti Ma Tos-trrior _ Ulnar Mfcu rren b Posterior .fulerasseous this process and the olecranon, it between the heads of that muscle bouring muscles and joint, and anastomoses with the inferior profunda, anasto- motica magna, and inter- osseous recurrent arteries (fig. 225); The interosseous artery (fig. 224) is a short trunk about an inch in length, and of considerable size, which arises immediately below the tuberosity of the radius, and, passing back- wards to the upper border of the interosseous mem- brane, divides into two branches, the anterior and posterior interosseous. The anterior interosseous passes down the forearm on the anterior surface of the interosseous mem- brane, to which it is con- nected by a thin aponeu- rotic arch. It is accom- panied by the interosseous branch of the median nerve, and overlapped by the con- tiguous margins of the Flexor profundus digito- rum and Flexor longus pollicis muscles, giving off in this situation muscular branches, and the nutrient arteries of the radius and ulna. At the upper border of the Pronator quadratus, a branch descends in front of that muscle, to anasto- mose in front of the carpus with branches from the anterior carpal and deep palmar arch. The continu- ation of the artery passes behind the Pronator qua- dratus (fig, 225), and, piercing the interosseous membrane, descends to the back of the wrist, where it anastomoses with the pos- terior interosseous and the posterior carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries. The anterior interosseous gives off a long, slender branch, which accompanies the median nerve, and gives offsets to its substance. This, the median artery, is some- times much enlarged. The posterior interosseous artery passes backwards through the interval between Posterior Carpi ( Ulnar) Termination of A n te rio 1 • In ter osteons Poster/or Carpal (JladiaJ ) Had/a I. Dorsalix rolling JDorsttlis Jjtiiols