MUSCLES AND FASCIAE. 214 5. Nasal Region. (Fig. 150.) Pyramidal is Nasi. Levator Labii Superioris Alseque Nasi. Dilatator Naris Posterior. Dilatator Naris Anterior. Compressor Nasi. Compressor Narium Minor. Depressor Ala? Nasi. The Pyramidalis Nasi is a small pyramidal slip, prolonged downwards from the Occipito-frontalis upon the side of the nose, where it becomes tendinous and blends with the Compressor nasi. As the two muscles descend, they diverge, leaving an angular interval between them. Relations. By its upper surface, with the skin. By its under surface, with the frontal and nasal bones. The Levator Labii Superio?°is Alceque Nasi is a thin triangular muscle, placed by the side of the nose, and extending between the inner margin of the orbit and upper lip. It arises by a pointed extremity from the upper part of the nasal process o*f the superior maxillary bone, and passing obliquely downwards and outwards, divides into two slips, one of which is inserted into the cartilage of the ala of the nose; the other is prolonged into the upper lip, becoming blended with the Orbi- cularis and Levator labii superioris proprius. Relations. In front, with the integument; and with a small part of the Orbi- cularis palpebrarum above. Lying upon the superior maxillary bone, beneath this muscle, is a longitudinal muscular fasciculus about an inch in length. It is attached by one end near the origin of the Compressor nasi, and by the other to the nasal process about an inch above it; it was described by Albinus as the ' Musculus anomalus,' and by Santorini, as the ' Bhomboideus.' The Dilatator Naris Posterior is a small muscle, which is placed partly beneath the proper elevator of the nose and lip. It arises from the margin of the nasal notch of the superior maxilla, and from the sesamoid cartilages, and is inserted into the skin near the margin of the nostril. The Dilatator Naris Anterior is a thin delicate fasciculus, passing fron the cartilage of the ala of the nose to the integument near its margin. This muscle is situated in front of the preceding. The Compressor Nasi is a small, thin, triangular muscle, arising by its apex from the superior maxillary bone, above and a little external to the incisive fossa; its fibres proceed upwards and inwards, expanding into a thin aponeurosis which is attached to the fibro-cartilage of the nose, and is continuous on the bridge of the nose with that of the muscle of the opposite side, and with the aponeurosis of the Pyramidalis nasi. The Compressor Narium, Minor is a small muscle, attached by one end to the alar cartilage, and by the other to the integument at the end of the nose. The Depressor Aim Nasi is a short, radiated muscle, arising from the incisive fossa of the superior maxilla; its fibres ascend to be inserted into the septum, and back part of the ala of the nose. This muscle lies between the mucous membrane and muscular structure of the lip. Nerves. All the muscles of this group are supplied by the facial nerve. Actions. The Pyramidalis nasi draws down the inner angle of the eyebrows; by some anatomists it is also considered as an elevator of the a]a, and, consequently, a dilator of the nose. The Levator labii superioris alseque nasi draws upwards the upper lip and ala of the nose; its most important action is upon the nose, which it dilates to a considerable extent. The action of this muscle produces a marked influence over the countenance, and it is the principal agent in the expression of contempt. The two Dilatatores nasi enlarge the aperture of the nose, and the Compressor nasi appears to press upon the nose so as to increase its breadth, and