THE SKELETON. 4 on eacli side of the sacral canal : they are called the sacral cornua, and articulate with the cornua of the coccyx. External to the articular processes are the four posterior sacral foramina; they are smaller in size and less regular in form than the anterior, and transmit the posterior branches of the sacral nerves. On the outer side of the posterior sacral foramina is a series of tubercles, the rudimentary 16.—Sacrum, Posterior Surface. posterior transverse processes of the sacral vertebrae. The first pair of transverse tubercles are of large size, very distinct, and correspond with each superior angle of the bone; the second, small in size, enter into the formation of the sacro-iliac articulation; the third give attachment to the oblique fasciculi of the posterior sacro- iliac ligaments; and the fourth and fifth to the great sacro-sciatic ligaments. The interspace between the spinous and transverse processes on the back of the sacrum presents a wide shallow concavity, called the sacral groove ; it is continuous above with the vertebral groove, and lodges the origin of the Erector spinas. The Lateral Surface, broad above, becomes narrowed into a thin edge below. Its upper half presents in front a broad ear-shaped surface for articulation with the ilium. This is called the auricular surface, and in the fresh state is coated with cartilage. It is bounded posteriorly by deep and uneven impressions, for the attachment of the posterior sacro-iliac ligaments. The lower half is thin and sharp, and gives attachment to the greater and lesser sacro sciatic ligaments, and to some fibres of the Gluteus maximus; below, it presents a deep notch, which is converted into a foramen by articulation with the articular process of the upper piece of the coccyx, and transmits the anterior branch of the fifth sacral nerve. The Base of the sacrum, which is broad and expanded, is directed upwards and forwards. In the middle is seen an oval articular surface, which corresponds with