202 ARTICULATIONS. anterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation. This articulation permits of considerable mobility ; but its feebleness is such as to allow occasionally of dislocation of the astragalus. The Synovial Membranes (fig. 148) found in the articulations of the tarsus, are four in number : one for the posterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation; a second for the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid and astragalo-scaphoid articulations ; a third for the calcaneo-cuboid articulation; and a fourth for the articulations of the scaphoid with the three cuneiform, the three cuneiform with each other, the external cuneiform with the cuboid, and the middle and external cuneiform with the bases of the second and third metatarsal bones. The prolongation which lines the metatarsal bones passes forwards between the external and middle cuneiform bones. A small synovial membrane is sometimes found between the contiguous surfaces of the scaphoid and cuboid bones. 148.—Oblique Section of the Articulations of the Tarsus and Metatarsus. Showing the Six Synovial Membranes. Actions. The movements permitted between the bones of the first row, the astragalus and os calcis, are limited to a gliding upon each other from before backwards, and from side to side. The gliding movement which takes place between the bones of the second row is very slight, the articulation between the scaphoid and cuneiform bones being more moveable than those of the cuneiform with each other and with the cuboid. The movement which takes place between the two rows is more extensive, and consists in a sort of rotation, by means of which the sole of the foot may be slightly flexed, and extended, or carried inwards and outwards. VI. Tarso-Metatarsal Articulations. These are arthrodial joints. The bones entering into their formation are four tarsal bones, viz., the internal, middle and external cuneiform, and the cuboid, which articulate with the metatarsal bones of the five toes. The metatarsal bone of the great toe articulates with the internal cuneiform; that of the second is deeply wedged in between the internal and external cuneiform, resting against the middle cuneiform, and being the most strongly articulated of all the metatarsal bones ; the third metatarsal articulates with the extremity of the external cunei- form ; the fourth with the cuboid and external cuneiform; and the fifth with the cuboid. The articular surfaces are covered with cartilage, lined by synovial membrane, and connected together by the following ligaments :— Dorsal. Plantar. Interrosseous. The Dorsal Ligaments consist of strong, flat, fibrous bands, which connect the tarsal with the metatarsal bones. The first metatarsal is connected to the internal