593 THE PINNA. The former, the most important, are two in number, anterior and posterior. The anterior ligament extends from the process of the helix to the root of the zygoma. The posterior ligament passes from the posterior surface of the concha to the outer surface of the mastoid process of the temporal bone. A few fibres connect the tragus to the root of the zygoma. The ligaments connecting the various parts of the cartilage together are also two in number. Of these, one is a strong fibrous band, stretching across from the tragus to the commencement of the helix, completing the meatus in front, and partly encircling the boundary of the concha; the other extends between the concha and the processus caudatus. The muscles of the pinna (fig. 319), like the ligaments, consist of two sets :— 1. Those which connect it with the side of the head, moving the pinna as a whole, viz., the Attollens, Attrahens, and Retrahens aurem (p. 209); and 2. the proper 319.—The Muscles of the Pinna. muscles of the pinna, which extend from one part of the auricle to another. These are, the Helicis minor. Antitragicus. Helicis major. Transversus auricula?. Tragicus. Obliquns auris. The M. Helicis major is a narrow vertical band of muscular fibres, situated upon the anterior margin of the helix. It arises, below, from the tubercle of the helix, and is inserted into the anterior border of the helix, just where it is about to curve backwards. It is pretty constant in its existence. The M. Helicis minor is an oblique fasciculus, attached to that part of the helix which commences from the bottom of the concha. The Tragicus is a short, flattened band of muscular fibres situated upon the outer surface of the tragus, the direction of its fibres being vertical. The Antitragicus arises from the outer part of the antitragus : its fibres are in- serted into the processus caudatus of the helix. This muscle is usually very distinct, The Transversus auriculce is placed on the cranial surface of the pinna. It Q Q