cxi SEROUS AND MUCOUS MEMBRANES. This form of epithelium covers the mucous membrane of the whole gastro-intestinal tract and the glands of that part, the greater part of the urethra, the vas deferens, the prostate, Cowper's glands, Bartholine's glands, and a portion of the uterine mucous membrane. The spheroidal or glandular epithelium (fig. LXV.) is composed of circular cells, with granular contents and a small nucleus. This form is found in the kidney, ureters, and bladder, and in the secreting glands. Ciliated epithelium (fig. LXVI.) may be of any of the preceding forms, but usually inclines to the columnar shape. It is distinguished by the presence of minute processes, like hairs or eyelashes (cilia), standing up from the free surface. If the cells be examined during life, or immediately on removal from the living body (for which in the human subject the removal of a nasal polypus offers a frequent opportunity), in tepid water, the cilia will be seen in active lashing motion ; and if the cells be separate, they will often be moved about in the field by that motion. The situations in which ciliated epithelium is found in the human body are: the respiratory tract from the nose downwards, the tympanum and Eustachian tube, the Fallopian tube and upper portion of the uterus, and the ventricles of the brain. The so-called goblet-cells appear to be formed by a conversion in shape of the columnar epithelium (ciliated or otherwise), consequent on the secre- Fig. LXVIL—Simple columnar epithelium from the mucous membrane of the intestine, with goblet-cells pouring out their contents. (Klein and Noble Smith.) tion into the interior of the cell of mucus, which distends the upper part of the cell, while the nucleus is pressed down towards its deep part, until the cell bursts and the mucus is discharged on to the surface of the mucous membrane, as shown in fig. LXVIL SEROUS, SYNOVIAL, AND MUCOUS MEMBRANES. These membranes consist of a layer of epithelium supported on a struc- tureless membrane, called the basement-membrane, beneath which lies a tract of connective or areolar tissue, which in the mucous membranes lodges glands of various kinds, and contains unstriped muscle, or contrac- tile muscular fibre-cells, and in both serous and mucous membranes con- veys the blood-vessels out of which the secretion is to be eliminated. The serous membranes are the simplest of the three, and will therefore be first described. They form shut sacs, sometimes arranged quite simply, as the tunica vaginalis testis, at others with numerous involutions and recesses, as the