379 RADIAL. radius, to the fore part of the styloid process, being placed to the inner side of the shaft of the bone above, and in front of it below. It is superficial throughout its entire extent, being covered by the integument, the superficial and deep fascia, and slightly overlapped above by the Supinator longus. In its course downwards, it lies upon the tendon of the Biceps, the Supinator brevis, the Pronator radii teres, the radial origin of the Flexor sublimis digitorum, the Flexor longus pollicis, the Pronator quadratus, and the lower extremity of the radius. In the upper third of its course, it lies between the Supinator longus and the Pronator radii teres ; in its lower two-thirds, between the tendons of the Supinator longus and the Flexor carpi radialis. The radial nerve lies along the outer side of the artery in the middle third of its course; and some filaments of the musculo-cutaneous nerve, after piercing the deep fascia, run along the lower part of the artery as it winds round the wrist. The vessel is accompanied by venae comites throughout its whole course. Plan of the Relations of the Radial Artery in the Forearm. In front. Integument—superficial and deep fascise. Supinator longus. Inner side. / „ ,. Outer side. I Radial \ Pronator radii teres. 1 . Artery in ) Supinator longus. Flexor carpi radialis. \ Forea™- / Radial nerve (middle third). Behind. Tendon of Biceps. Supinator brevis. Pronator radii teres. Flexor sublimis digitorum. Flexor longus pollicis. Pronator quadratus. Radius. At the wrist, as it winds round the outer side of the carpus, from the styloid process to the first interosseous space, it lies upon the external lateral ligament, being covered by the extensor tendons of the thumb, subcutaneous veins, some filaments of the radial nerve, and the integument. It is accompanied by two veins, and a filament of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. In the hand, it passes from the upper end of the first interosseous space, between the heads of the Abductor indicis or first Dorsal interosseous muscle transversely across the palm, to the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger, where it inosculates with the communicating branch from the ulnar artery, forming the deep palmar arch. It lies upon the carpal extremities of the metacarpal bones and the Interossei muscles, being covered by the flexor tendons of the fingers, the Lumbricales, the muscles of the little finger, and the Flexor brevis pollicis, and is accompanied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve. Peculiarities. The origin of the radial artery varies in the proportion nearly of one in eight cases. In one case the origin was lower than usual. In the other cases, the upper part of the brachial was a more frequent source of origin than the axillary. The varia- tions in the position of this vessel in the arm, and at the bend of the elbow, have been already mentioned. In the forearm it deviates less frequently from its position than the ulnar. It has been found lying over the fascia, instead of beneath it. It has also been observed on the surface of the Supinator longus, instead of along its inner border: and in turning round the wrist, it has been seen lying over, instead of beneath, the Extensor tend >ns. Surgical Anatomy. The operation of tying the radial artery is required in cases of wounds either of its trunk, or in some of its branches, or for aneurism: and it will be observed, thai the vessel may be exposed in any part of its course through the forearm without the division of any muscular fibres. The operation in the middle or inferior third of the forearm is easily performed; but in the upper third near the elbow, it is attended with some difficulty, from the greater depth of the vessel, and from its being overlapped by the Supinator longus and Pronator teres muscles.