281 POSTERIOR BRACHIAL REGION. Posterior Brachial Region. (Fig. 178.) Superficial Layer. Extensor Communis Digitoriim. Extensor Carpi Ulnaris. Extensor Minimi Digiti. Anconeus. The Extensor Communis Digitorum is situated at the back part of the forearm. It arises from the external condyle of the humerus by the common tendon, from the deep fascia, and the intermuscular septa between it and the adjacent muscles. Just below the middle of the forearm it divides into three tendons, which pass, together with the Extensor indicia, through a separate compartment of the annular ligament, lubricated by a synovial membrane. The tendons then diverge, the innermost one dividing into two; and all, after passing across the back of the hand, are inserted into the second and third phalanges of the fingers in the following manner : Each tendon becomes narrow and thickened opposite the metacarpo- phalangeal articulation, and gives off a thin fasciculus upon each side of the joint which serves as the posterior ligament; after having passed the joint, it spreads out into a broad aponeurosis, which covers the whole of the dorsal surface of the first phalanx ; being reinforced, in this situation, by the tendons of the Interossei and Lumbricales. Opposite the first phalangeal joint, this aponeurosis divides into three shps, a middle, and two lateral : the former is inserted into the base of the second phalanx; and the two lateral, which are continued onwards along the sides of the second phalanx, unite by their contiguous margins, and are inserted into the dorsal surface of the last phalanx. As the tendons cross the phalangeal joints, they furnish them with posterior ligaments. The tendons of the middle, ring, and little fingers are connected together, as they cross the hand, by small oblique tendinous slips. The tendons of the index and little fingers also receive, before their division, the special extensor tendons belonging to them. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the fascia of the forearm and hand, the posterior annular ligament, and integument. By its deep surface, with the Supinator brevis, the Extensor muscles of the thumb and index finger, the posterior interosseous vessels and nerve, the wrist-joint, carpus, metacarpus, and phalanges. By its radial border, with the Extensor carpi radialis brevior. By its ulnar border, with the Extensor minimi digiti, and Extensor carpi ulnaris. The Extensor Minimi Digiti is a slender muscle placed on the inner side of the Extensor communis, with which it is generally connected. It arises from the common tendon by a thin tendinous slip ; and from the intermuscular septa between it and the adjacent muscles. Its tendon runs through a separate compartment in the annular ligament behind the inferior radio-ulnar joint, then divides into two as it crosses the hand, and, at the metacarpophalangeal articulation, unites with the tendon derived from the common Extensor, lying at first to the ulnar side of that tendon and somewhat more superficial. The common tendon then spreads into a broad aponeurosis, which is inserted into the second and third phalanges of the little finger in a similar manner to the common Extensor tendons of the other fingers. The Extensor Carpi Ulnaris is the most superficial muscle on the ulnar side of the forearm. It arises from the external condyle of the humerus, by the common tendon ; from the middle third of the posterior border of the ulna below the Anco- neus, and from the fascia of the forearm. This muscle terminates in a tendon, wrhich runs through a groove behind the styloid process of the ulna, passes through a separate compartment in the annular ligament, and is inserted into the ulnar side of the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the fascia of the forearm. By its deep surface, with the ulna, and the muscles of the deep layer. The Anconeus is a small triangular muscle, placed behind and below the elbow- joint, and appears to be a continuation of the external portion of the Triceps. It arises by a separate tendon from the back part of the outer condyle of the humerus ; and is inserted into the side of the olecranon, and upper fourth of the posterior surface of the shaft of the ulna; its fibres diverge from their origin, the upper ores bqing directed transversely, the lower obliquely inwards.