337 COMMON CAROTID. the artery and vein, on a plane posterior to both. On opening the sheath, these three structures are seen to be separated from one another, each being enclosed in a separate fibrous investment. Relations. At the lower part of the neck the common carotid artery is very deeply seated, being covered by the superficial fascia, Platysma, and deep fascia, the Sterno-mastoid, Sterno-hyoid, and Sterno-thyroid muscles, and by the Omo-hyoid opposite the cricoid cartilage; but in the upper part of its course, near its ter- mination, it is more superficial, being covered merely by the integument, the superficial fascia, Platysma, deep fascia, and inner margin of the Sterno-mastoid, and is contained in a triangular space, bounded behind by the Sterno-mastoid, above by the posterior belly of the Digastric, and below by the anterior belly of the Omo-hyoid. This part of the artery is crossed obliquely from within outwards by the sterno-mastoid artery; it is crossed also by the facial, lingual, and superior thyroid veins, which terminate in the internal jugular, and descending on its sheath in front, is seen the descendens noni nerve, this filament being joined by one or two branches from the cervical nerves, which cross the vessel from without inwards. Sometimes the descendens noni is contained within the sheath. The middle thyroid vein crosses the artery about its middle, and the anterior jugular vein below. Behind, the artery lies in front of the cervical portion of the spine, resting first on the Longus colli muscle, then on the Rectus capitis anticus major, from which it is separated by the sympathetic nerve. The recurrent laryngeal nerve and inferior thyroid artery cross behind the vessel at its lower part. Inter- nally, it is in relation with the trachea and thyroid gland, the inferior thyroid artery and recurrent laryngeal nerve being interposed : higher up, with the larynx and pharynx. On its outer side are placed the internal jugular vein and pneumo- gastric nerve. At the lower part of the neck, the internal jugular vein on the right side diverges from the artery, but on the left side it approaches it, and often crosses its lower part. This is an important fact to bear in mind during the performance of any operation on the lower part of the left common carotid artery. Plan of the Relations of the Common Carotid Artery. In Front. Integument and fascia. Omo-hyoid. Platysma. Sterno-mastoid. Sterno-hyoid, Sterno-thyroid. Externally. Internal jugular vein. Pneumogastric nerve. Longus colli Descendens noni nerve. Sterno-mastoid artery. Superior thyroid, lingual, and facial veins. Anterior jugular vein. Internally. Trachea. Thyroid gland. Recurrent laryngeal nerve. Inferior thyroid artery. Larynx. Pharynx. Behind. Ajwuguc w**±. Sympathetic nerve. Rectus capitis anticus major. Inferior thyroid artery. Recurrent laryngeal nerve. # Peculiarities as to Origin. The right common carotid may arise above or below its usual point, the upper border of the sterno-clavicular articulation. This variation occurs in one out of about eight cases and a half, and the origin is more frequently above than below the usual point; or the artery may arise as a separate branch from the arch of the aorta, or in conjunction with the left carotid. The left common carotid varies more frequently in its origin than the right. In the majority of abnormal cases it arises with the innominate artery, or if the innominate artery is absent, the two carotids arise usually by a single trunk. The left carotid has a tendency towards the right side of the arch of the aorta, bein<x occasion- ally the first branch given oft' from the transverse portion. It rarely joins with the left subclavian, except in cases of transposition of the arch. Z