FIFTH. OPHTHALMIC. tentorium cerebelli, and the dura mater, in the middle fossa of the cranium. From its anterior border, which is directed forwards and outwards, three large branches proceed : the ophthalmic, superior maxillary, and inferior maxillary. The ophthalmic and superior maxillary consist exclusively of fibres derived from the larger root and ganglion, and are solely nerves of common sensation. The third division, or inferior maxillary, is composed of fibres from both roots. This, therefore, strictly speaking, is the only portion of the fifth nerve which can be said to resemble a spinal nerve. Ophthalmic Nerve. (Figs. 278, 279.) The Ophthalmic, or first division of the fifth, is a sensory nerve. It supplies the eyeball, the lachrymal gland, the mucous lining of the eye and nose, and the integu- ment and muscles of the eyebrow and forehead. It is the smallest of the three divisions of the fifth, arising from the upper part of the Casserian ganglion. It is a short, flattened band, about an inch in length, which passes forwards along the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, below the other nerves, and just before entering the orbit, through the sphenoidal fissure, divides into three branches, lachrymal, frontal, and nasal. The ophthalmic nerve is joined by filaments from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, communicates with the sixth nerve, and is not unfrequently joined with the fourth, and gives off recurrent filaments which pass between the layers of the tentorium along with a branch from the fourth nerve. Its branches are, the Lachrymal. Frontal. Nasal. The Lachrymal is the smallest of the three branches of the ophthalmic. Not unfrequently it arises by two filaments, one from the ophthalmic, the other from the fourth, and this Swan considers to be its usual condition. It passes forwards in a separate tube of dura mater, and enters the orbit through the narrowest part of the sphenoidal fissure. In the orbit, it runs along the upper border of the External rectus muscle, with the lachrymal artery, and is connected with the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve. Within the lachrymal gland it gives off several filaments, which supply the gland and the conjunctiva. Finally, it pierces the palpebral ligaments, and terminates in the integument of the upper eyelid, joining with filaments of the facial nerve. The Frontal is the largest division of the ophthalmic, and may be regarded, both from its size and direction, as the continuation of this nerve. It enters the orbit above the muscles, through the highest and broadest part of the sphenoidal fissure, and runs forwards along the middle line, between the Levator palpebral and the periosteum. Midway between the apex and base of the orbit it divides into two branches, supratrochlear and supraorbital. The supratrochlear branch, the smaller of the two, passes inwards, above the pulley of the Superior oblique muscle, and gives off a descending filament, which joins with the infratrochlear branch of the nasal nerve. It then escapes from the orbit between the pulley of the Superior oblique and the supraorbital foramen, curves up on to the forehead close to the bone, and ascends behind the Corrugator supercilii and Occipito-frontalis muscles, to both of which it is distributed; finally, it is lost in the integument of the forehead. The supraorbital branch passes forwards through the supraorbital foramen, and gives off, in this situation, palpebral filaments to the upper eyelid. It then ascends upon the forehead, and terminates in muscular, cutaneous, and pericranial branches. The muscular brandies supply the Corrugator supercilii, Occipito-frontalis, and Orbicularis palpebrarum, furnishing these muscles with common sensation, and joining in the substance of the latter muscle with the facial nerve. The cutaneous brandies, two in number, an inner and an outer, supply the integument of the cranium as far back as the occiput. They are at first situated beneath the Occipito- frontalis, the inner branch perforating the frontal portion of the muscle, the outer branch its tendinous aponeurosis. The pericranial branches are distributed to the