7i7 THE MALE URETHRA. The mucous coat is thin, smooth, and of a pale rose colour. It is continuous through the ureters with the lining membrane of the uriniferous tubes, and below with that of the urethra. It is connected loosely to the muscular coat, by a layer of areolar tissue, excepting at the trigone, where its adhesion is more close. It is provided with a few mucous follicles; and numerous small racemose glands, lined with columnar epithelium, exist near the neck of the organ. The epithelium cover- ing it is intermediate in form between the columnar and squamous varieties. (Figs. 412, 413). Interior of the bladder. Upon the inner surface of the base of the bladder, immediately behind the urethral orifice, 414. -The Bladder and Urethra laid open Seen from above. Orifices of /7uct <if Counters Maud, iccompany the is a triangular, smooth surface, the apex of which is directed forwards; this is the trigonum vesicae,, or trigone vesical. It is paler in colour than the rest of the mucous membrane, and never presents any rugae, even in the collapsed condition of the organ, owing to its intimate adhesion to the subjacent tissues. It is bounded on each side by two slight ridges, which pass backwards and outwards to the orifices of the ureters, and correspond with the muscles of these tubes; and at each posterior angle, by the orifices of the ureters, which are placed nearly two inches from each other, and about an inch and a half behind the orifice of the urethra. The trigone corresponds with the interval at the base of the bladder, bounded by the prostate in front, and the vesicular and vasa deferentia on the sides. Pro- jecting from the lower and anterior part of the bladder, into the orifice of the urethra, is a slight elevation of mucous membrane, called the uvula vesica}. It is formed by a thickening of the pros- tate. The arteries supplying the bladder are, the superior, middle, and inferior vesical, in the male, with additional branches from the uterine, in the fe- male. They are all derived from the anterior trunk of the internal iliac. The veins form a complicated plexus round the neck, sides, and base of the bladder, and terminate in the internal iliac vein. blood-vessels, passing through the glands The lymphatics surrounding them. The nerves are derived from the hypogastric and sacral plexuses; the former supplying the upper part of the organ, the latter its base and neck. Male Urethra. The urethra extends from the neck of the bladder to the meatus urinarius. It presents a double curve in the flaccid state of the penis, but in the erect state it forms only a single curve, the concavity of which is directed upwards (fig. 411).