7i6 THE URINARY ORGANS. neck, where they are inserted into the prostate in the male, and into the vagina in the female. Other longitudinal fibres arise in the male from the sides of the prostate, and spread out upon the sides of the bladder, intersecting with one another. The circular fibres are very thinly and irregularly scattered on the body of the organ; but, towards its lower part, round the cervix and commencement of the urethra, they are disposed as a thick circular layer, forming the sphincter vesicae, which is continuous with the muscular fibres of the prostate gland. Two bands of oblique fibres, originating behind the orifices of the ureters, con- verge to the back part of the prostate gland, and are inserted, by means of a fibrous process, into the middle lobe of that organ. They are the muscles of the ureters, described by Sir C. Bell, who supposed that, during the contraction of the bladder, they served to retain the oblique direction of the ureters, and so prevent the reflux of the urine into them. J. B. Pettigrew gives the following results at which he has arrived by his exquisite dissections of the muscular fibres of the bladder and prostate {Phil. Trans. 1867). The muscular fibres of the bladder are arranged spirally, forming fig.ure-of-8 loops, the superficial more longitudinal or drawn out, the deeper more circular or flattened. This arrangement has been aptly compared to that of india-rubber rings through which a stick has been passed and which are then wound twice round the stick and drawn out into figures-of-8, some (the exterior) in very elongated loops, so as to approach the longitudinal direction, others (the central) in very flattened loops, so as to be nearly circular. The external fibres, which are nearly longitudinal, are in four sets—an anterior and posterior, and a right and left lateral; the latter accessory and less fully developed. The fibres are arranged in seven strata, three external, three internal, and a middle, pursuing well-marked directions in each. These layers, however, are very imperfect, ' the fibres rarely, if ever, occupying precisely the same plane and running exactly parallel. They, moreover, split up, and become fused with each other, with corresponding or homologous fibres, and with fibres which are either superimposed or underlie them.' The fibres of the first and seventh layers are the most feebby developed. The crossings or decussations of the loops occur at different distances in pro- ceeding from before backwards, this crossing forming a kind of spiral line. The loops are directed towards and embrace the urachus and urethra respectively. The terminal ex- expansions of the loops in the other layers contribute to the formation of the fourth layer, particularly towards the base and apex, which are, therefore, thicker than the other parts. The aggregation of the loops towards the apex forms the sphincter. The longitudinal, slightly oblique, truly oblique, and nearly circular fibres of the successive layers are all continued into the prostatic urethra, which therefore may be regarded as a continuation of the bladder anteriorly. The fibres of the cervix are traceable into the verumontanum, which Pettigrew believes to act as a valve to the urethra, falling down into the tube and obstructing it when the muscle of the bladder is not acting, and raised up, so as to stand erect in the middle line, and thus to allow the flow of urine, when the fibres contract. The varying obliquity and spiral arrangement of the seven layers establishes a close analogy between the disposition of the muscular fibres of the bladder and those of the heart, as described by Pettigrew, in Phil. Trans. 1864 ; and he hints at similar structure in the stomach and uterus. 412.—Superficial Layer of the Epithelium of the Bladder. Composed of polyhedral cells of various sizes, each with one, two or three nuclei. (Klein and Noble Smith). 413.—Deep Layers of Epithelium of Blad- der, showing large club-shaped cells above, aud smaller, more spindle-shaped cells below—each with an oval nucleus. (Klein and Noble Smith). The cellular coat consists of a layer of areolar tissue, connecting together the muscular and mucous coats, and intimately united to the latter.