THE PERITONEUM. 631 <m the layers where they are attached to the stomach lie the coronaria ventriculi artery l4 and the pyloric branch of the hepatic anastomosing with it. The great omentum (gastro-colic) is the largest peritoneal fold. It consists of ' four layers of peritoneum, two of which descend from the stomach, one from its ' I anterior, the other from its posterior surface, and, uniting at its lower border, s,1|i descend in front of the small intestines, as low down as the pelvis ; they then turn upon themselves, and ascend again as far as the transverse colon, where they f it separate and enclose that part of the intestine. These separate layers may be easily 4 demonstrated in the young subject; but, in the adult, they are more or less a'|| inseparably blended. The left border of the great omentum is continuous with the ; gastro-splenic omentum ; its right border extends as far only as the duodenum. The great omentum is usually thin, presents a cribriform appearance, and always ill contains some adipose tissue, which, in fat subjects, accumulates in considerable l|Jj| quantity. Its use appears to be to protect the intestines from the cold, and to facilitate their movement upon each other during their vermicular action. Be- !,ilJ tween its layers is the anastomosis between the right and left gastro-epiploica arteries. The gastro-splenic omentum is the fold which connects the concave surface of I the spleen to the cul-de-sac of the stomach, being continuous by its lower border *f! with the great omentum. It contains the splenic vessels and vasa brevia. The Mesenteries are, the mesentery proper, the meso-caBCum, the ascending r4 transverse, and descending meso-colon, the sigmoid meso-colon, and the meso-rectum. The mesentery (fxlcror, Ivrepov), so called from being connected to the middle of the cylinder of the sm all intestine, is the broad fold of peritoneum which connects ™1 the convolutions of the jejunum and ileum with the posterior wall of the abdomen. [j Its root, the part connected with the vertebral column, is narrow, about six inches m in length, and directed obliquely from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra m to the right sacro-iliac symphysis. Its intestinal border is much longer; and here its two layers separate, so as to enclose the intestine, and form its peritoneal coat. *m Its breadth, between its vertebral and intestinal border, is about four inches. Its m upper border is continuous with the under surface of the transverse meso-colon; Ull its lower border, with the peritoneum covering the csecum and ascending colon, ti It serves to retain the small intestines in their position, and contains between its ! layers the mesenteric vessels and nerves, the lacteal vessels, and mesenteric glands. The 'meso-caicum, when it exists, serves to connect the back part of the caecum with the right iliac fossa; more frequently, the peritoneum passes merely in front of this portion of the large intestine. The ascending meso-colon is the fold which connects the back part of the ascending colon with the posterior wall of the abdomen; and the descending meso- colon retains the descending colon in connection with the posterior abdominal wall; more frequently, the peritoneum merely covers the anterior surface and sides of these two portions of the intestine. The transverse meso-colon is a broad fold, which connects the transverse colon with the posterior wall of the abdomen. It is formed by the two ascending layers of the great omentum, which, after separating to surround the transverse colon, join behind it, and are continued backwards to the spine, where they diverge in front of the duodenum, as already mentioned. This fold contains between its layers the vessels which supply the transverse colon. The sigmoid meso-colon is the fold of peritoneum which retains the sigmoid flexure in connection with the left iliac fossa. The meso-rectum is the narrow fold which connects the upper part of the rectum with the front of the sacrum. It contains the haimorrhoiclal vessels. The appendices epiploicw are small pouches of the peritoneum filled with fat, and situated along the colon and upper part of the rectum. They aie chiefly ap- pended to the transverse colon.