557 ANTERIOR TIBIAL. supply the adjacent sides of the great and second toes, sending a filament to the first Lumbricalis muscle ; the third digital branch supplies the adjacent sides of the second and third toes, and the second Lumbricalis muscle ; the fourth supplies the corre- sponding sides of the third and fourth toes, and receives a communicating branch from the external plantar nerve. It will be observed, that the distribution of these branches is precisely similar to that of the median nerve in the hand. Each digital nerve gives off cutaneous and articular filaments; and opposite the last phalanx sends a dorsal branch, which supplies the structure round the nail, tho continuation of the nerve being distributed to the ball of the toe. The external plantar nerve, the smaller of the two, completes the nervous supply to the structures of the foot, being distributed to the little toe and one-half of the fourth, as well as to most of the deep muscles, its distribution being similar to that of the ulnar in the hand. It passes obliquely forwards with the external plantar artery to the outer side of the foot, lying between the Flexor brevis digitorum and Flexor accessorius ; and, in the interval between the former muscle and Abductor minimi digiti, divides into a superficial and a deep branch. Before its division, it supplies the Flexor accessorius and Abductor minimi digiti. The superficial branch separates into two digital nerves : one, "the smaller of the two, supplies the outer side of the little toe, the Flexor brevis minimi digiti, and the two interosseous muscles of the fourth metatarsal space; the other, and larger, digital branch, supplies the adjoining sides of the fourth and fifth toes, and communi- cates with the internal plantar nerve. The deep or muscular branch accompanies the external plantar artery into the deep part of the sole of the foot, beneath the tendons of the Flexor muscles and Adductor pollicis, and supplies all the interossei (except those in the fourth meta- tarsal space), the two outer Lumbricales, the Adductor pollicis, and the Transversus pedis. The External Popliteal or Peroneal Nerve (fig. 298), about one half the size of the internal popliteal, descends obliquely along the outer side of the popliteal space to the fibula, close to the margin of the Biceps muscle. It is easily felt beneath the skin behind the head of the fibula, at the inner side of the tendon of the Biceps. About an inch below the head of the fibula it pierces the origin of the Peroneus longus, and divides beneath that muscle into the anterior tibial and musculo-cutaneous nerves. The branches of the peroneal nerve, previous to its division, are articular and cutaneous. The articular branches, two in number, accompany the superior and inferior external articular arteries to the outer side of the knee. The upper one occasional lv arises from the great sciatic nerve before its bifurcation. A third (recurrent) articu- lar nerve is given off at the point of division of the peroneal nerve; it ascends with the tibial recurrent artery through the Tibialis anticus muscle to the front of the knee, which it supplies. The cutaneous branches, two or three in number, supply the integument along the back part and outer side of the leg, as far as its middle or lower part; one of these, larger than the rest, the communicans peronei, arises near the head of the fibula, crosses the external head of the Gastrocnemius to the middle of the leg, and joins with the external saphenous. This nerve occasionally exists as a separate branch, which is continued down as far as the heel. The A?iterior Tibial Nerve (fig. 296) commences at the bifurcation of the peroneal nerve, between the fibula and upper part of the Peroneus longus, passes obliquely forwards beneath the Extensor longus digitorum to the fore part of the interosseous membrane, and reaches the outer side of the anterior tibial artery above the middle of the leg; it then descends with the artery to the front of the ankle-joint, where it divides into an external and an internal branch. This nerve lies at first on the outer side of the anterior tibial artery, then in front of it, and again at its outer side at the ankle-joint. The branches of the anterior tibial nerve, in its course through the leg, arc the