THE LYMPHATICS. XC1X Fig. LVII.—Transverse section through the coats of the thoracic duct of man. Mag- nified 30 times. a, Epithe- lium, striated lamellae, and inner elastic coat: b, longitu- dinal connective tissue of the middle coat; c, transverse muscles of the same; d, tu- nica adventitia, with e, the longitudinal muscular fibres. disposed. It forms a protective covering to the other coats, and serves to connect the vessel with the neighbouring structures. The lymphatics are supplied by nutrient vessels, which are distributed to their outer and middle coats; but no nerves have at present been traced into them. The lymphatics are very generally pro- vided with valves, which assist materially in effecting the circulation of the fluid they contain. These valves are formed of a thin layer of fibrous tissue, lined on both surfaces with scaly epithelium. Their form is semi- lunar, they are attached by their convex edge to the sides of the vessel, the concave edge being free, and directed along the course of the contained current. Usually, two such valves, of equal size, are found Dpposite one another; but occasionally exceptions occur, especially at or near the anastomoses of lymphatic vessels. Thus one valve may be of very rudimentary size, and the other in- creased in proportion. In other cases, the semilunar flaps have been found directed transversely across the vessel, instead of obliquely, so as to impede the circulation in both directions, but not to completely arrest it in either; or the semilunar flaps, taking the same direction, have been found united on one side, so as to form, by their union, a transverse septum, having a partial trans- verse slit; and sometimes the flap is consti- tuted of a circular fold, attached to the entire circumference of the vessel, and having in its centre a circular or elliptical aperture, like the ileo-csecal valve. The valves in the lymphatic vessels are placed at much shorter intervals then in the veins. They are most numerous near the lymphatic glands, and they are found more frequently in the lymphatics of the neck and upper extremity than in the lower. The wall of the lymphatics, immediately above the point of attachment of each segment of a valve, is expanded into a pouch or sinus, which gives to these vessels, when distended, the knotted or beaded appearance which they present. Valves are wanting in the vessels composing the plexiform network in vhich the lymphatics usually originate on the surface of the body. The finest visible lymphatic vessels form a plexiform network in the ubcutaneous and submucous tissues, and this is properly regarded as one Fig. LVIII.—1, epithelium from the under surface of the centrum tendincum of the rabbit; a, pores. 2, epithelium of the mediasti- num of the dog; a, pores. 3, section through the pleura of the same animal; b, free orifices of short lateral passages of the lymph canals (copied from Lud- wig, Schweigger- Seydel, and Dybkowsky).