ILEO CECAL VALVE. 643 j the mammalia, except the orang-outang and wombat. The appendix varies from three to six inches in length, its average diameter being about equal to that of a i goosequill. It is usually directed upwards and inwards behind the csecum, coiled I upon itself, and terminates in a blunt point, being retained in its position by a fold of peritoneum, which sometimes forms a mesentery for it. Its canal is small, and I communicates with the csecum by an orifice, which is sometimes guarded with an incomplete valve. Its coats are thick, and its mucous lining furnished with a large j number of solitary glands. Ileo-Ccecal Valve.—The lower end of the ileum terminates at the inner and back part of the large intestine, opposite the junction of the caecum with the colon. At this point the mucous membrane forms two valvular folds, which project into the large intestine, and are separated from each other by a narrow elongated aperture. j This is the ileo-csecal valve (valvula Bauhini). Each fold is semilunar in form. j The upper one, nearly horizontal in direction, is attached by its convex border to the 359.—Diagram of the relations of the Large Intestine and Kidney from behind. The parts uncovered by Peritoneum are shown unshaded. point of junction of the ileum with the colon ; the lower segment, to the point of junction of the ileum with the cascum. Their free concave margins project into the intestine, separated from one another by a narrow slit-like aperture, directed trans- versely. At each end of this aperture the two segments of the valve coalesce, and are continued as a narrow membranous ridge around the canal of the intestine for a short distance, forming the frcena, or retinacula of the valve. The left end of this aperture is rounded ; the right end is narrow and pointed. Each segment of the valve is formed by a reduplication of the mucous membrane and of the circular muscular fibres of the intestine, the longitudinal fibres and peritoneum being continued uninterruptedly across from one intestine to the other. When these are divided or removed, the ileum may be drawn outwards, and all traces of the valve will be lost, the ileum appearing to open into the large intestine by a funnel-shaped orifice of large size. T t 2