xliii CELLS AND PROTOPLASM. Lymph, as its name implies, is a watery fluid. In the lymph the molecular base is absent, and the lymph-corpuscles are very few in number, and indeed are said by Kolliker to be absent in the smaller vessels. According to the same anthor, the size of the lymph-globules increases as the fluid ascends higher in the course of the circulation. In this view the lymph is at first a mere albuminous fluid, and the chyle at first a mere albumino-fatty fluid, the cells in both being produced during the passage of the fluid through the glands (lymphatic or mesenteric, as the case may be), and being further elaborated, and even new cells pro- duced by the division of the old ones, in the course of the circulation. The presence of mature blood-globules in the lymph or in the chyle is regarded by most authors as accidental—i.e. produced by the manipula- tions of the dissector; but Dr. M. Foster says that the pink colour seen on the surface of clotted chyle, even when no blood is mixed with it, is due to immature red corpuscles proper to the chyle. The lymph-corpuscles, as seen in the above figure, are in all essential respects the same in the chyle, the lymph, and the blood, where they have been described above as the colourless blood-corpuscles. In the chyle and lymph, however, they vary very much in size. In some cases several younger cells are found enclosed in the original corpuscles. CELLS AND PEOTOPLASM. All the solid tissues of the body are originally developed out of cells, containing a matter now usually styled protoplasm, and many such cells persist in mature structures. In the higher organisms all such cells are nucleated—i.e. they contain in their interior a smaller cell or nucleus, which frequently presents in its centre a nucleolus. The protoplasm is situated around the nucleus, and is usually enclosed in a limiting mem- brane or cell-wall. Protoplasm (sarcode, blastema, germinal matter, or bioplasm) is usually granular, sometimes hyaline, is indistinguishable in its chemical relations from albumen, of a semi-fluid, viscid consistence, and distinguished by its vital properties of amoeboid motion (of which ciliary movements may be taken to be a variety), nutrition—that is, the power of attracting to itself the materials of growth from the surrounding matter—and reproduction, by means of which fresh cells are produced either by segmentation or budding. These processes commence in the nucleus, which is a special collection of protoplasm marked off by a definite outline from the rest of the cells, and distinguished from it by resisting the action of acids and alkalis which destroy or render invisible the body of the cell, and by imbibing the stain of carmine, haBmatoxyline, &c. In the reproduction of cells by segmentation the nucleus splits ; in that by germination it sends off a process ; and thus new nuclei are pro- duced which are surrounded by their own cell substance, and gradually detach themselves from the parent cell. The most remarkable property of cells is that of growth, development, or differentiation, by means of which the most various solid tissues, or even fluids containing cells, are developed out of cells originally to all appearance identical. The death of cells is accomplished either by their mechanical detach-