DEVELOPMENT OF THE SKIN. cxli internal ear is developed. The auditory nerve is described either as a projection from the third cerebral vesicle, or as an independent formation from the mesoblast which unites with both, and thus establishes a com- munication between the cerebral and the auditory vesicles. The middle ear and Eustachian tube constitute the remains of the first pharyngeal or branchial cleft. The formation of the ossicles of the tympanum has been already pointed out, viz., the incus and malleus from Meckel's cartilage, and the stapes, with its muscle, from the second pharyngeal arch. These parts project into the first pharyngeal cleft, which remains occupied by connective tissue during the whole of foetal life, according to Kolliker. The membrana tympani forms across the cleft, dividing it into an inner and outer portion. The pinna, or external ear, is developed from the soft parts covering the first pharyngeal arch. Development of the nose.—Two fossae (olfactory fossse) have been already spoken of, which are found below and in front of the ocular vesicles and the upper maxillary projection (fig. LXXXV., 2, 3). They appear about the fourth week. Their borders become prominent, and the fossae deepen, except at the lower part, where they lead by a groove (olfactory groove) into the buccal cavity. This groove is bounded by the internal and external nasal process. As the superior maxillary projection increases, the olfactory groove is transformed into a deep canal, the rudiment of the two superior meatuses of the nose. As the palatine septum is formed, the buccal cavity is divided into two parts, the upper of which represents the inferior meatus of the nose, while the lower forms the mouth. The soft parts of the nose are formed from the coverings of the frontal projection, and of the olfactory fossse. The nose is perceptible about the end of the second month. The nostrils are at first closed by epithelium, but this disappears about the fifth month. The olfactory nerve, as above pointed out, is a prolongation, at first in the form of a hollow stalk, from the anterior cerebral Vesicle. The development of the teeth is spoken of in the body of the work, p. 614. Development of the shin, glands, and soft parts.—The epidermis is pro- duced from the external, the true skin from the middle, blastodermic layer (fig. LXXIIL, 19, 20). About the fifth week the epidermis presents two layers, the deeper one corresponding to the rete mucosum. The subcu- taneous fat forms about the fourth month, and the papillae of the true skin about the sixth. A considerable desquamation of epidermis takes place during foetal life, and this desquamated epidermis mixed with a sebaceous secretion constitutes the vernix caseosa, with which the skin is smeared during the last three months of foetal life. The nails are formed at the third month, and begin to project from the epidermis about the sixth. The hairs appear between the third and fourth month in the form of a depres- sion of the deeper layer of the epithelium, which then becomes inverted by a projection from the papillary layer of the skin. The papilla grows into the interior of the epithelial layer, and finally, about the fifth month, the foetal hairs (lanugo) appear first on the head and then on the other parts. These hairs drop off after birth, and give place to the permanent hairs.