THE URINARY ORGANS. 7io stellate in arrangement, being found around the bases of the pyramids of Ferrein, and are derived from the terminations of the interlobular arteries. These join to form the vence interlobular es, which pass inwards between the pyramids of Ferrein, receive branches from the plexuses around the tubuli contorti, and, having arrived at the bases of the Malpighian pyramids, join with the vense rectse, next to be described (figs. 407, 408, b). The Vence rectce are branches from the plexuses at the apices of the medullary pyramids, formed by the terminations of the arteriole recta?. They pass outwards in a straight course between the tubes of the medullary structure, and joining, as above stated, the vena? interlobulares, form the proper renal veins (figs. 407, 408,/). These vessels, Vence Proprice Renales, accompany the arteries of the same name, running along the entire length of the sides of the pyramids; and, having received in their course the efferents from the Malpighian bodies in the cortical structure adjacent, quit the kidney proper to enter the sinus. In this cavity they inosculate with the corresponding veins from the other pyramids to form—- The Renal Vein, which, passing through the hilum, opens into the vena cava inferior; the left being longer than the right, from having to cross in front of the abdominal aorta. Nerves of the Kidney. The nerves of the kidney, although small, are about fifteen in number. They have small ganglia developed upon them, and are derived from the solar plexus, the lower and outer part of the semilunar ganglion, and from the lesser and smallest splanchnic nerves. They communicate with the spermatic plexus, a circumstance which may explain the sympathy that exists between the kidney and testicle. So far as they have been traced, they seem to accompany the renal artery and its branches, but their exact mode of termination is not known. The lymphatics consist of a superficial and deep set which terminate in the lumbar glands. Connective tissue, or intertubular stroma. Although the tubules and vessels are closely packed, a certain small amount of connective tissue, continuous with the cap- sule, binds them firmly together. This tissue was first described by Goodsir, and subsequently by Bowman. Luclwig and Zawarykin have observed distinct fibres passing around the Malpighian bodies; and Henle has seen them between the straight tubes composing the medullary structure. The Ureters. The term Ureter is generally restricted to that portion of the renal duct which is between the pelvis of the kidney and the bladder, but in this description the calices and pelvis of the kidney will be included in its composition. So that the ureter, or excretory duct, of the kidney will be said to consist of three portions : its cuplike commencements, the calices, including the infundibula; its dilated portion, the pelvis ; and its tubular portion, the ureter proper. The calices are cup-like tubes encircling the apices of the Malpighian pyramids; but inasmuch as 6ne calyx may include two or even more papillae, their number is generally less than the pyramids themselves, the former being from seven to thirteen, whilst the latter vary from eight to eighteen. These calices converge into the three infundibula, an upper, middle and lower, which by their junction form the pelvis, or dilated portion of the ureter ; which latter, gradually narrowing, becomes conti- nuous with the ureter proper. The portion last mentioned, where the pelvis merges into the ureter proper, is found opposite the transverse process of the third lumbar vertebra on the left, and the fourth on the right side ; at either of which situations it is accessible behind the peritoneum (see fig. 359, p. 643). The ureter proper is a cylindrical membranous tube, from sixteen to eighteen inches in length, and of the diameter of a goose-quill, extending from the pelvis of the kidney to the bladder. Its course is obliquely downwards and inwards through the lumbar region into the cavity of the pelvis, where it passes downwards, forwards,