THE LENS. 5^7 315.—The Crystalline Lens, hardened and divided. (Enlarged.) The lens is a transparent, double-convex body, the convexity being greater on the posterior than on the anterior surface. It measures about a third of an inch in the transverse diameter, and about one-fourth in the antero-posterior. It consists of con- centric layers, of which the external in the fresh state are soft and easily detached; those beneath are firmer, the central ones forming a hardened nucleus. These laminae are best demonstrated by boiling, or immersion in alcohol. The same re- agents demonstrate that the lens consists of three triangular segments, the sharp edges of which are directed towards the centre, the bases towards the circumference. The laminas consist of minute parallel fibres which are hexagonal prisms, the edges being dentated, and the dentations fitting accurately into each other; their breadth is about 5-0Votn °f an inch. They run from the pole on one side of the lens to the equator on the other, so that the fibres which are longest in front are shortest behind and vice versa. There are also other fibres, which are found chiefly in the equatorial region and at the surface of the lens, which present nuclei, and are of a flattened form. The nuclei form a layer (nuclear layer) on the surface of the lens, most distinct towards its circumference. The meri- dians, or lines of junction of the three segments, are formed of an amorphous granular substance which sometimes becomes opaque, when the lines are seen forming a distinct star on the lens. The changes produced in the lens by age, are the following :— In the fwtus, its form is nearly spherical, its colour of a slightly reddish tint, it is not perfectly transparent, and is so soft as to break down readily on the slightest pressure. In the adult, the posterior surface is more convex than the anterior; it is colour- less, transparent, and firm in texture. In old age it becomes flattened on both surfaces, slightly opaque, of an amber tint, and increases in density. The suspensory ligament of the lens is a thin, transparent, membranous struc- ture, placed between the vitreous body and the ciliary processes of the choroid; it connects the anterior margin of the retina with the anterior surface of the lens near its circumference. It assists in retaining the lens in its position. Its outer surface presents a number of folds or plaitings in which the corresponding folds of the ciliary processes are received. These plaitings are arranged round the lens in a radiating form, and are stained by the pigment of the ciliary processes. The suspen- sory ligament consists of two layers, which commence behind at the ora serrata. The external, a tough, milky, granular membrane, covers the inner surface of the ciliary processes, and extends as far forwards as their anterior free extremities. The inner layer, an elastic, transparent, fibro-membranous structure, extends as far for- wards as the anterior surface of the capsule of the lens, near its circumference. That portion of this membrane which intervenes between the ciliary processes and the capsule of the lens, forms part of the boundary of the posterior chamber of the eye. The posterior surface of this layer is turned towards the hyaloid membrane, being separated from it at the circumference of the lens by a space called the canal of Petit. The canal of Petit is above one-tenth of an inch wide. It is bounded in front by the suspensory ligament; behind, by the hyaloid membrane, its base being formed by the capsule of the lens. When inflated with air, it is sacculated at intervals, owing to the foldings on its anterior surface. The Vessels of the globe of the eye are the short, long, and anterior ciliary arteries, and the arteria centralis retime. The short ciliary arteries pierce the back part of the sclerotic, round the entrance