THE (ESOPHAGUS. 625 down as on a level with the floor of the nares; below that point, the epithelium is of the squamous variety. The muscular coat has been already described (p. 231). The pharyngeal glands are of two kinds : the simple, or compound follicular, which are found in considerable numbers beneath the mucous membrane, throughout the entire pharynx; and the racemose, which are especially numerous at the upper part of the pharynx, and form a thick layer, across the back part of the fauces, between the two Eustachian tubes. The (Esophagus. The (Esophagus is a membranous canal, about nine inches in length, extending from the pharynx to the stomach. It commences at the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, opposite the fifth cervical vertebra, descends along the front of the spine, through the posterior mediastinum, passes through the Diaphragm, and, entering the abdomen, terminates at the cardiac orifice of the stomach, opposite the ninth dorsal vertebra. The general direction of the oesophagus is vertical; but it presents two or three slight curvatures in its course. At its commencement, it is placed in the median line; but it inclines to the left side as far as the root of the neck, gradually passes to the middle line again, and finally again deviates to the left, as it passes forwards to the oesophageal opening of the Diaphragm. The oesophagus also presents an antero-posterior flexure, corresponding to the curvature of the cervical and thoracic portions of the spine. It is the narrowest part of the alimentary canal, being most contracted at its commencement, and at the point where it passes through the Diaphragm. Relations. In the neck, the oesophagus is in relation, in front, with the trachea; and, at the lower part of the neck, where it projects to the left side, with the thyroid gland and thoracic duct; behind, it rests upon the vertebral column and Longus colli muscle; on each side, it is in relation with the common carotid artery (especially the left, as it inclines to that side), and part of the lateral lobes of the thyroid gland ; the recurrent laryngeal nerves ascend between it and the trachea. In the thorax, it is at first situated a little to the left of the median line; it then passes across the left side of the transverse part of the aortic arch, and descends in the posterior mediastinum, along the right side of the aorta, nearly to the Diaphragm, where it passes in front and a little to the left of the artery, previous to entering the abdomen. It is in relation, in front, with the trachea, the arch of the aorta, left carotid, and left subclavian arteries, the left bronchus, and the posterior surface of the pericardium ; behind, it rests upon the vertebral column, the Longus colli, and the intercostal vessels; and below, near the Diaphragm, upon the front of the aorta; laterally, it is covered by the pleurae : the vena azygos major lies on the right, and the descending aorta on the left side. The pneumogastric nerves descend in close contact with it, the right nerve passing clown behind, and the left nerve in front of it. Surgiccd Anatomy.—The relations of the oesophagus are of considerable practical interest to the surgeon, as he is frequently required, in cases of stricture of this tube, to dilate the canal by a bougie, when it becomes of importance that the direction of the oesophagus, and its relations to surrounding parts, should be remembered. In cases of malignant disease of the oesophagus, where its tissues have become softened from infiltration of the morbid de- posit, the greatest care is requisite in directing the bougie through the strictured part, as a false passage may easily be made, and the instrument may pass into the mediastinum, or into one or the other pleural cavity, or even into the pericardium. The student should also remember that contraction of the oesophagus, and consequent symptoms of stricture, are occasionally produced by an aneurism of some part of the aorta pressing upon this tube. In such a case, the passage of a bougie could only hasten the fatal issue. It occasionally happens that a foreign body becomes impacted in the oesophagus, which can neither be brought upwards nor moved downwards. When all ordinary means for its removal have failed, excision is the only resource. This, of course, can only be performed when it is not very low down. If the foreign bodv is allowed to remain, extensive infhm- S S "