ORGANS OF SENSE. 573 Structure. The sclerotic is formed of white fibrous tissue intermixed with fine elastic fibres, and fusiform nucleated cells. These are aggregated into bundles, which are arranged chiefly in a longitudinal direction. It yields gelatin on boiling. Its vessels are not numerous, the capillaries being of small size, uniting at long and wide intervals. The existence of nerves in it is doubtful. The Cornea is the projecting transparent part of the external tunic of the eye- ball, and forms the anterior sixth of the globe. It is not quite circular, being a little broader in the transverse than in the vertical direction, in consequence of the sclerotic overlapping the margin above and below. It is convex anteriorly, and projects forwards from the sclerotic in the same manner that a watch-glass does from its case. Its degree of curvature varies in different individuals, and in the same individual at different periods of life, it being more prominent in youth than in advanced life, when it becomes flattened. The cornea is dense and of uniform thickness throughout; its posterior surface is perfectly circular in outline, and exceeds the anterior surface slightly in extent, from the latter being overlapped by the sclerotic. Structure. The cornea consists of five layers : namely, of a thick central fibrous structure, the cornea proper; in front of this is the anterior elastic lamina, covered 308.—A Vertical Section of the Eyeball. (Enlarged.) by the conjunctiva; behind, the posterior elastic lamina, covered by the lining membrane of the anterior chamber of the eyeball. The name of membrane of Descemet is given to this posterior elastic lamina and its epithelial coating. The proper substance of the cornea is fibrous, tough, unyielding, perfectly trans- parent, and continuous with the sclerotic, with which it is in structure identical. The anastomosing fusiform cells of which it is composed are arranged in super- imposed flattened laminae, at least sixty in number, all of which have the same direction, the continuous laminae becoming united at frequent intervals. If the relative position of the component parts of this tissue is in any way altered, either by pressure or by an increase of its natural tension, it immediately presents an opaque milky appearance. The interstices between the laminae are tubular, and usually contain a small amount of transparent fluid. The anterior and posterior elastic lamince, which cover the proper structure of the cornea behind and in front, present an analogous structure. They consist of a hard, elastic, and perfectly transparent homogeneous membrane, of extreme