691 THE PLEURA. The Pleuete. Each lung is invested, upon its external surface, l>y an exceedingly delicate serous membrane, the pleura, which encloses the organ as far as its root, and is then reflected upon the inner surface of the thorax. The portion of the serous membrane investing the surface of the lung is called the pleura pulmonalis (visceral layer of pleura), while that which lines the inner surface of the chest is called the pleura costalis (parietal layer of pleura). The interspace or cavity between these two layers is called the cavity of the pleura. Each pleura is therefore a shut sac, one occu- pying the right, the other the left half of the thorax ; and they are perfectly separate, not communicating with each other. The two pleurre do not meet in the middle line 390.—A Transverse Section of the Thorax, showing the relative Position of the Viscera, and the Reflections of the Pleurae. TRIANGULARIS STERfii of the chest, excepting at one point in front; an interspace being left between them, which contains all the viscera of the thorax, excepting the lungs : this is the mediastinum. Reflections of the pleura (fig. 390). Commencing at the sternum, the pleura passes outwards, covers the costal cartilages, the inner surface of the ribs and Intercostal muscles, and at the back part of the thorax passes over the thoracic ganglia and their branches, and is reflected upon the sides of the bodies of the vertebras, where it is separated by a narrow interspace from the opposite pleura, the posterior mediastinum. From, the "vertebral column the pleura passes to the side of the pericardium, which it covers to a slight extent : it then covers the back part of the root of the lung, from the lower border of which a triangular fold descends vertically by the side of the posterior mediastinum to the Diaphragm. This fold is the broad ligament of the lung, the ligamentum latum pulmonis, and serves to retain the lower part of that organ in position. From the root, the pleura may be traced Y Y 2