GENERAL ANATOMY. CV1 are most numerous in those parts which are provided with the greatest sensibility. The appendages of the skin are the nails, the hairs, the sudoriferous and sebaceous glands, and their ducts. The nails and hairs are peculiar modifications of the epidermis, con- sisting essentially of the same cellular structure as that membrane. The Nails are flattened elastic structures of a horny texture, placed upon the dorsal surface of the terminal phalanges of the fingers and toes. Each nail is convex on its outer surface, concave within, and is implanted by a portion called the root into a groove of the skin; the exposed portion is called the body, and the anterior extremity the free edge. The nail has a very firm adhesion to the cutis, being accurately moulded upon its sur- face, as the epidermis is in other parts. The part of the cutis beneath the body and root of the nail, is called the matrix, because it is the part from which the nail is produced. Corresponding to the body of the nail, the matrix is thick, and covered with large, highly vascular papillae, arranged in longitudinal rows, the colour of which is seen through the transparent tissue. Behind this, near the root of the nail, the papillae are small, less vascular, and have no regular arrangement; hence, the portion of the nail corresponding to this part is of a whiter colour, and called lunula, from its form. The cuticle, as it passes forwards on the dorsal surface of the finger, is attached to the surface of the nail, a little in advance of its root: at the extremity of the finger, it is connected with the under surface of the nail, a little behind its free edge. The cuticle and horny structure of the nail (both epidermic structures) are thus directly continuous with each other. The nails, in structure, consist of cells having a laminated arrangement, and these are essentially similar to those composing the epidermis. The deepest layer of cells which lie in contact with the papillae at the root and under surface of the nail, are of elongated form, arranged perpendicularly to the surface, and provided with nuclei; those which succeed these are of a rounded or polygonal form, the more superficial ones becoming broad, thin, and flattened, and so closely compacted together as to make the limits of each cell very indistinct. It is by the successive growth of new cells at the root and under surface of the body of the nail, that it advances forwards, and maintains a due thickness, whilst, at the same time, the growth of the nail in the proper direction is secured. As these cells in their turn become displaced by the growth of new cells, they assume a flattened form, lose their nuclei, and finally become closely compacted together into a firm, dense horny texture. In chemical composition, the nails resemble the epidermis. According to Mulder, they contain a somewhat larger proportion of carbon and sulphur. The Hairs are pe'culiar modifications of the epidermis, and consist essentially of the same structure as that membrane. They are found on nearly every part of the surface of the body, excepting the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, and vary much in length, thickness, and colour in different parts of the body and in different races of mankind. In some parts they are so short as not to project beyond the follicles containing them ; in other parts, as upon the scalp, they are of considerable length;