ARCH OF AORTA. 33i the left innominate vein; and from its upper part are given off the innominate, left common carotid, and left subclavian arteries. Its lower border is in relation with the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery, and the remains of the ductus arteriosus, which is connected with the left division of that vessel; the left recurrent laryngeal nerve winds round it from before backwards, whilst the left bronchus passes below it. Plan of the Relations of the Transverse Part of the Arch. Above. Left innominate vein. Arteria innominata. Left carotid. Left subclavian. In Front. Left pleura and lung. Left pneumogastric nerve. Left phrenic nerve. Cardiac nerves. Arch of Aorta. Transverse Portion. Behind. Trachea. Deep cardiac plexus. Oesophagus. Thoracic duct. Left recurrent nerve. Beloiu. Bifurcation of pulmonary artery Remains of ductus arteriosus. Left recurrent nerve. Left bronchus. Descending Part of the Arch. The descending portion of the arch has a straight direction, inclining downwards on the left side of the body of the fourth dorsal vertebra, at the lower border of which it takes the name of thoracic aorta. Relations. Its anterior surface is covered by the pleura and root of the left lung; behind, it lies on the left side of the body of the fourth dorsal vertebra. On its right side are the oesophagus and thoracic duct; on its left side it is covered by the pleura. Plan of the Relations of the Descending Part of the Arch. In Front. Pleura. Root of left lung. Bight side. Oesophagus. Thoracic duct. left side. Pleura. Behind. Left side of body of fourth dorsal vertebra. The ascending, transverse, and descending portions of the arch vary in position according to the movements of respiration, being lowered, together with the trachea, bronchi, and pulmonary vessels, during inspiration by the descent of the Diaphragm, and elevated during expiration, when the Diaphragm ascends. These movements are greater in the ascending than the transverse, and in the latter than the descending part. Peculiarities. The height to which the aorta rises in the chest is usually about an inch below the upper border of the sternum ; but it may ascend nearly to the top of that bone. Occasionally, it is found an inch and a half, more rarely three inches below this point. In Direction. Sometimes the aorta arches over the root of the right instead of the left lung, as in birds, and passes down on the right side of the spine. In such cases all the