LINGUAL. 34i Surgical Anatomy. The superior thyroid, or some of its branches, are often divided in cases of cut throat, giving rise to considerable hemorrhage. In such cases, the artery should be secured, the wound being enlarged for that purpose, if necessary. The operation may be easily performed, the position of the artery being very superficial, and the only structures of importance covering it being a few small veins. The operation of tying the superior thyroid artery, in bronchocele, has been performed in numerous instances with partial or temporary success. When, however, the collateral circulation between this vessel and the artery of the opposite side, and the inferior thyroid, is completely re-established, the tumour usually regains its former size. The Lingual Artery (fig. 216) arises from the external carotid between the superior thyroid and facial; it runs obliquely upwards and inwards to the great cornu of the liyoid bone, then passes horizontally forwards parallel with the great cornu, and, ascending perpendicularly to the under surface of the tongue, turns forwards on its under surface as far as the tip of that organ, under the name of the ranine artery. Relations. Its first, or oblique portion, is superficial, being contained in the triangular space already described, resting upon the middle constrictor of the pharynx, and covered by the Platysma, and fascia of the neck. Its second, or horizontal portion, also lies upon the Middle constrictor, being covered at first by the tendon of the Digastric and the Stylo-hyoid muscle, and afterwards by the Hyo-glossus, the latter muscle separating it from the hypoglossal nerve. Its third, or ascending portion, lies between the Hyo-glossus and Genio-hyo-glossus muscles. The fourth, or terminal part, under the name of the ranine, runs along the under surface of the tongue to its tip : it is very superficial, being covered only by the mucous membrane, and rests on the Lingualis on the outer side of the Genio-hyo-glossus. The hypoglossal nerve lies nearly parallel with the lingual artery, separated from it, in the second part of its course, by the Hyo- glossus muscle. The branches of the lingual artery are, the Hyoid. Sublingual. Dorsalis Linguae. Ranine. The hyoid branch runs along the upper border of the byoid bone, supplying the muscles attached to it and anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side. The dorsalis linguae, (fig. 216) arises from the lingual artery beneath the Hyo- glossus muscle (which, in the figure, has been partly cut away, to show the vessel) • ascending to the dorsum of the tongue, it supplies the mucous membrane, the tonsil, soft palate, and epiglottis; anastomosing with its fellow from the opposite side. The sublingual, which may be described as a branch of bifurcation of the lingual artery, arises at the anterior margin of the Hyo-glossus muscle, and, running forwards and outwards beneath * the Mylo-hyoid to the sublingual gland, supplies its substance, giving branches to the Mylo-hyoid and neighbouring muscles, the mucous membrane of the mouth and gums. The ranine may be regarded as the other branch of bifurcation, or, as is more usual, as the continuation of the lingual artery ; it runs along the under surface of the tongue, resting on the Lingualis, and covered by the mucous membrane of the mouth; it lies on the outer side of the Genio-hyo-glossus, and is covered by the Hyo-glossus and Stylo-glossus, accompanied by the gustatory nerve. On arriving at the tip of the tongue, it anastomoses with the artery of the opposite side. These vessels in the mouth are placed one on each side of the fraenum. Surgical Anatomy. The lingual artery may be divided near its origin in cases pf cut throat, a complication that not unfrequently happens in this class of wounds, or severe haemorrhage which cannot be restrained by ordinary means, may ensue from a wound, or deep ulcer, of the tongue. In the fomer case, the primary wound may be enlarged if necessary, and the bleeding vessel secured. In the latter case, it has been suggested that the lingual artery should be tied near its origin. Ligature of the lingual artery is also occasionally practised, as a palliative measure, in cases of tumour of the tongue, in order to * That is to say, it is deeper than the muscle in dissecting from the surface. In the natural position of the body, the artery lies above the muscle.