INTERNAL CAROTID. 353 portion of the subclavian artery curves outwards and downwards from the outer margin of the Scalenus anticus, across the first rib to the axilla. Sometimes this vessel rises as high as an inch and a half above the clavicle, or to any point intermediate between this and its usual level. Occasionally, it passes in front of the Scalenus anticus, or pierces the fibres of that muscle. The subclavian vein lies behind the clavicle, and is usually not seen in this space; but it occasionally rises as high up as the artery, and has even been seen to pass with that vessel behind the Scalenus anticus. The brachial plexus of nerves lies above the artery and in close contact with it. Passing transversely across the clavicular margin of the space, are the suprascapular vessels; and traversing its upper angle in the same direction, the transverse cervical vessels. The external jugular vein runs vertically downwards behind the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid, to terminate in the Subclavian vein ; it receives the transverse cervical and suprascapular veins, which occasionally form a plexus in front of the artery, and a small vein which crosses the clavicle from the cephalic. The small nerve to the subclavius also crosses this triangle about its middle. A lymphatic gland is also found in the space. Its floor is formed by the first rib with the first digitation of the Serratus inagnus. Internal Carotid Artery. The internal carotid artery commences at the bifurcation of the common carotid, opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and runs perpendicularly up- wards, in front of the transverse processes of the three upper cervical vertebrae, to the carotid foramen in the petrous portion of the temporal bone. After ascending in it for a short distance, it passes forwards and inwards through the carotid canal, and, again ascending a little by the side of the sella Turcica, curves upwards by the anterior clinoid process, where it pierces the dura mater, and divides into its terminal branches. This vessel supplies the anterior part of the brain, the eye, and its appendages. Its size, in the adult, is equal to that of the external carotid. In the child, it is larger than that vessel. It is remarkable for the number of curvatures that it presents in different parts of its course. In its cervical portion it occasionally presents one or two flexures near the base of the skull, whilst through the rest of its extent it describes a double curvature which resembles the italic letter s placed horizontally ~. These curvatures most probably diminish the velocity of the current of blood, by increasing the extent of surface over which it moves, and adding to the amount of impediment produced from friction. In considering the course and relations of this vessel, it may be conveniently divided into four portions : a cervical, petrous, cavernous, and cerebral. Cervical Portion. This portion of the internal carotid is superficial at its com- mencement, being contained in the superior carotid triangle, and lying on the same level as the external carotid, but behind that artery, overlapped by the Sterno- mastoid, and covered by the Platysma, deep fascia, and integument : it then passes beneath the parotid gland, being crossed by the hypoglossal nerve, the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles, and the external carotid and occipital arteries. Higher up, it is separated from the internal carotid by the Stylo-gloss us and Stylo pharyngeus muscles, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and pharyngeal branch of the pneumogastric. It is in relation, behind, with the Rectus capitis anticus major, the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and superior laryngeal nerve ; ex- ternally, with the internal jugular vein, and pneumogastric nerve; internally, with the pharynx, tonsil, and ascending pharyngeal artery. Petrous Portion. When the internal carotid artery enters the canal in the petrous-portion of the temporal bone, it first ascends a short distance, then curves forwards and inwards, and again ascends as it leaves the canal to enter the cavity of the skull. In this canal, the artery lies at first anterior to the tympanum, from which it is separated by a thin bony lamella, which is cribriform in the young subject, and often absorbed in old age. It is separated from the bony wall of the A A