EIGHTH, SPINAL ACCESSORY. PNEUMOGASTRIC. 521 The muscular branches are distributed to the Stylo-pharyngeus. The tonsillar branches supply the tonsil, forming a plexus (circularis tonsillaris) around this body, from which branches are distributed to the soft palate and fauces, where they anastomose with the palatine nerves. The lingual branches are two in number : one supplies the mucous membrane covering the surface of the base of the tongue, the other perforates its substance, and supplies the mucous membrane and papilla? of the side of the organ. The Spinal Accessory Nerve consists of two parts : one, the accessory part to the vagus, and the other the spinal portion. The accessory part, the smaller of the two, arises by four or five delicate filaments from the lateral tract of the cord below the roots of the vagus ; these filaments may be traced to a nucleus of grey matter at the back of the medulla, below the origin of the vagus. It joins, in the jugular foramen, with the upper ganglion of the vagus by one or two filaments, and is continued into the vagus below the second ganglion. It gives branches to the pharyngeal and superior laryngeal branches of the vagus. The spinal portion, firm in texture, arises by several filaments from the lateral tract of the cord, as low down as the sixth cervical nerve; the fibres pierce the tract, and are connected with the anterior horn of the grey matter of the cord. This portion of the nerve ascends between the ligamentum denticulatum and the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, enters the skull through the foramen magnum, and it is then directed outwards to the jugular foramen, through which it passes, lying in the same sheath as the pneumogastric, separated from it by a fold of the arachnoid, and is here connected with the accessory portion. At its exit from the jugular foramen, it passes backwards behind the internal jugular vein, and descends obliquely behind the Digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles to the upper part of the Sterno-mastoid. It pierces that muscle, and passes obliquely across the occipital triangle, to terminate in the deep surface of the Trapezius. This nerve gives several branches to the Sterno-mastoid during its passage through it, and joins in its substance with branches from the third cervical. In the occipital triangle it joins with the second and third cervical nerves, and assists in the formation of the cervical plexus, and occasionally of the great auricular nerve. On the front of the Trapezius, it is reinforced by branches from the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves, joins with the posterior branches of the spinal nerves, and is distributed to the Trapezius, some filaments ascending and others descending in the substance of the muscle as far as its inferior angle. The Pneumogastric Nerve (nervus vagus or par vagum), has a more extensive distribution than any of the other cranial nerves, passing through the neck and thorax to the upper part of the abdomen. It is composed of both motor and sensitive filaments. It supplies the organs of voice and respiration with motor and sensitive fibres; and the pharynx, oesophagus, stomach, and heart with motor influence. Its superficial origin is by eight or ten filaments from the lateral tract imme- diately behind the olivary body and below the glosso-pharyngeal; its fibres may, however, be traced deeply through the fasciculi of the medulla, to terminate in a grey nucleus near the lower part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The fila- ments become united, and form a flat cord, which passes outwards across the flocculus to the jugular foramen, through which it emerges from the cranium. In passing through this opening, the pneumogastric accompanies the spinal accessory, being contained in the same sheath of dura mater with it, a membranous septum separating it from the glosso-pharyngeal, which lies in front. The nerve in this situation presents a well-marked ganglionic enlargement, which is called ganglion jugtdare, or the ganglion of the root of the pneumogastric : to it the accessory part of the spinal accessory nerve is connected. After the exit of the nerve from the jugular foramen, a second gangliform swelling is formed upon it, called the ganglion inferius, or the ganglion of the trunk of the nerve; below which it is again joined by filaments from the accessory nerve. The nerve passes vertically down the neck within the sheath of the carotid vessels, lying between the internal carotid artery and internal