761 THE ISCHIORECTAL FOSSA. two or three cutaneous branches of the small sciatic nerve ; these turn round the inferior border of the Gluteus maximus, and are distributed to the integument in this region. 431.—Dissection of PerinsBiim and Iscbio-Rectal Region. The External sphincter is a thin flat plane of muscular fibres, elliptical in shape, and intimately adherent to the integument surrounding the margin of the anus. It measures about three or four inches in length, from its anterior to its posterior extremity, being about an inch in breadth, opposite the anus. It arises from the tip of the coccyx, by a narrow tendinous band; and from the superficial fascia in front of that bone ; and is inserted into the tendinous centre of the perinaeum, join- ing with the Transversus perinsei, the Levator ani, and the Accelerator urinse. Like other Sphincter muscles, it consists of two planes of muscular fibre, which surround the margin of the anus, and join in a commissure before and behind. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the integument; by its deep surface, it is in contact with the internal sphincter • and is separated from the Levator ani by loose areolar tissue. The Sphincter ani is a voluntary muscle, supplied by the hemorrhoidal branch of the fourth sacral nerve. This muscle is divided in the operation for fistula in ano : and also in some cases of fissure of the rectiim, especially if attended with much pain or spasm. The object of its division is to keep the parts at rest and in contact during the healing process. The Internal sphincter is a muscular ring, about an inch in breadth, which surrounds the lower extremity of the rectum, about an inch from the margin of the anus. This muscle is about two lines in thickness, and is formed by an aggregation of the involuntary circular fibres of the intestine. It is paler in colour, and less coarse in texture, than the External sphincter. The ischio-rectal fossa is situated between the end of the rectum and the tuberosity of the ischium on each side. It is triangular in shape, its base, directed to the surface of the body, is formed by the integument of the ischio-rectal region ; its apex, directed upwards, corresponds to the point of division of the obturator fascia, and the thin membrane given off from it, which covers the outer surface of the Levator ani (ischio-rectal fascia). Its dimensions are about an inch in breadth, at the base, and about two inches in depth, being deeper behind than in front. It is bounded, internally, by the Sphincter ani, Levator ani, and Coccygeus muscles; externally, by the tuberosity of the ischium, and the obturator fascia, which covers the inner surface of the Obturator internns muscle; in front, it is limited by the line of junction of the superficial and deep perineal fascise : and behind, by the margin of the Gluteus maximus, and the great sacro-sciatic ligament. This space is filled with a large mass of adipose substance, which explains the frequency with which abscesses in the neighbourhood of the rectum burrow to a considerable depth. If the subject has been injected, on placing the finger on the outer wall of this