ORGANS OF VOICE AND RESPIRATION. 68o The lower border is connected to the cricoid cartilage, in the median line, by the crico-thyroid membrane; and, on each side, by the Crico-thyroid muscle. The posterior borders, thick and rounded, terminate, above, in the superior cornna; and, below, in the inferior cornna. The two superior cornua are long and narrow, directed backwards, upwards, and inwards ; and terminate in a conical extremity, which gives attachment to the thyro-hyoid ligament. The two inferior cornua are short and thick; they pass forwards and inwards, and present, on their inner surfaces, a. small oval, articular facet for articulation with the side of the cricoid cartilage. The posterior border receives the insertion of the Stylo-pharyngeus and Palato-pharyngeus muscles on each side. The Cricoid Cartilage is so 382.—The Cartilages of the Larynx. Posterior View called from its resemblance to a signet ring (icpiicoc, a. ring). EPIGLOTTIS THYROID a It is smaller but thicker and stronger than the thyroid carti- lage, and forms the lower and back part of the cavity of the larynx. Its anterior half is narrow, convex, affording attachment in front and at the sides to the Crico-thyroid muscles, and, be- hind those, to part of the Inferior, constrictor. Its posterior half is very broad, both from side to side and from above downwards ; it presents in the middle line a vertical ridge for the attachment of the longi- tudinal fibres of the oesophagus ; and on either side a broad depres- sion for the Crico-aryta?noideus posticus muscle. At the point of junction of the two halves of the cartilage on either side is a small round elevation, for articulation with the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The lower border of the cricoid cartilage is horizontal, and con- nected to the upper ring of the trachea by fibrous membrane. Its upper border is directed ob- liquely upwards and backwards, owing to the great depth of its posterior surface. It gives at- tachment, in front, to the crico- thyroid membrane ; at the sides, to part of the same membrane and to the lateral Crico-arytenoid muscle ; behind, the highest point of the upper border is surmounted on each side by a smooth oval surface, for articulation with the arytenoid cartilage. Between the articular surfaces is a slight notch, for the attachment of part of the Arytsenoideus muscle. The inner surface of the cricoid cartilage is smooth, and lined by mucous membrane. ARYTENOID insertion, of CRICO-ABVT/ENOI POST ICLSET LATERALIS A.rfi'ctcla.r faoei Arytenoid Cart9. Arfic 117ti, r fk re.t Infer. L'. of Thy