Ixvi GENERAL ANATOMY. the direction of the primitive fibrils of which the primitive fasciculus is composed. They are less distinct than the former, and are regarded by Klein as due to post-mortem Fig-. XXVIII.—Fragments of striped elementary a cleavage in opposite direc change. The primitive fibrils constitute the proper contractile tissue of the muscle. Each fibril is cylin- driform, somewhat flattened, about 1 8 0 0 0 of an inch in thickness, and marked by transverse striae placed at the same distance from each Fig. XXVII.—Two human muscular fibres, magnified 350 times. In the one, the bundle of fibrillae (b) is torn, and the sarcolemma (a) is seen as an empty tube. fibres, showing tions, magnified 300 diameters. A, Longitudi- nal cleavage. The longitudinal and transverse lines are both seen. Some longitudinal lines are darker and wider than the rest, and are not continuous from end to end. This results from partial separation of the fibrillse. c, Fi- brillse separated from one another by violence at the broken end of the fibre, and marked by transverse lines equal in width to those on the fibre, c' c", represent two appearances commonly presented by the separated single fibrillse (more highly magnified). At e' the borders and transverse lines are all perfectly rectilinear, and the included spaces perfectly rectangular. At c" the borders are scalloped and the spaces bead-like. When most distinct and definite, the fibrilla presents the former of these appearances. b, Transverse cleavage. The longitudinal lines are scarcely visible. a, Incomplete fracture following the opposite surfaces of a disc, which stretches across the interval, and retains the two fragments in con- nection. The edge and surfaces of this disc are seen to be minutely granular, the granules corresponding in size to the thickness of the disc, and to the distance between the faint longitudinal lines, b, Another disc nearly detached, b'', Detached disc, more highly magnified, showing the sarcous elements. other as the stria? on the surface of the fasciculus. Each fibril appar- ently consists of a single row of minute particles (named ' sarcous elements5 by Bowman), connected together like a string of beads. Closer examination, however, shows that the elementary particles are little masses of pellucid substance, having a rectangular outline, and appearing dark in the centre. These appearances would favour the suggestion that the elementary particles of which the fibrils are composed are possibly nucleated cells, cohering in a linear series, the transverse marks between them corresponding to their line of junction. Kolliker, however, considers £ the sarcous elements as artificial products, occasioned by the breaking up of the fibrils at the parts where they are thinner.' On closer examination, the appearances become more complicated, and are susceptible of various interpretations. Thus, if we apply a higher power of the microscope, the transverse striation which in figs. XXVII. XXVIII. appears as a mere alternation of dark and bright bands is resolved