cxliv GENERAL ANATOMY. The vessels which are in communication with the foetal heart are as follows:—In its earliest state the circulation is external to, the embryo. This primitive circulation appears about the fifteenth day, and lasts till the fifth week. It consists of two arteries, the first aortic arches, which Fig. XCII.—Heart at the fifth week. A, opened from the abdominal aspect, r, arterial sinus. 2, aortic arches uniting behind to form the descending aorta. 3, auricle. 4, auriculo-ventricular orifice. 5, Commencing septum ventriculorum. 6, ventricle. 7, inferior vena cava. B, posterior view of the same, 1, trachea. 2, lungs. 3, ventricles. 4, 5, auricles. 6, diaphragm. 7, descending aorta. 8, 9, 10, pneumogastric nerves and their branches. unite into a single artery, running down in front of the primitive ver- tebrae and in the walls of the intestinal cavity, and joining in a single artery, which again divides into two primitive aortce or vertebral arteries, and these give off five or six omphalomesenteric arteries, which ramify in the germinal area, forming with their parent trunks a close network, terminating in veins which converge towards a venous trunk, the terminal sinus. This vessel surrounds the vascular portion of the germinal area, but does not extend up to the anterior end of the embryo. It terminates on either side in a vein called omphalomesenteric. The two omphalome- senteric veins open into the auricular extremity of the heart. This primitive circulation extends gradually from the germinal area over the whole of the umbilical vesicle^ and disappears as the latter becomes atrophied. In a more advanced state of the embryo, the position of this first pair of aortic arches corresponds to the first pharyngeal arch. Next in succession, other pairs of arches are formed behind the first* (fig. XCIIL). The total number is five, but the whole five pairs do not exist together, for the first two have disappeared before the others are formed. These two have no representatives in the permanent structures. The third pair gives origin to the carotids, the fourth pair forms the inno- minate and subclavian on the right, the arch of the aorta and subclavian on the left. The fifth forms on the left side the pulmonary artery, the ductus arteriosus, and the descending portion of the thoracic aorta. Its right branch disappears.f The ascending portion of the arch of the aorta and the root of the pulmonary artery, are at first blended together in the common dilatation * The position of the first four of these aortic arches is behind the corresponding pharyn- geal arches, and that of the fifth behind the fourth pharyngeal cleft. t The relations of the recurrent branch of the pneumogastric nerve are of interest in reference to the fifth aortic, or branchial arch. If we assume that in the foetus the recurrent nerve is detached from its parent trunk by the projection of the fifth arch, this would account for its situation on the left side in the adult, curving as it does round the ductus arteriosus, which is the remnant of that arch. On the right side the disappearance of the fifth arch brings it into relation with the fourth, and accordingly in the adult it curves round the subclavian, which is the remnant of that arch.