The Sympathetic Nerve. HPHE Sympathetic Nerve is so called from the opinion entertained that through it •*■ is produced a sympathy between the affections of distant organs. It consists of a series of ganglia, connected together by intervening cords, extending on each side of the vertebral column from the base of the skull to the coccyx. It may, more- over, be traced up into the head, where the ganglia (which are all in connection with the fifth cranial nerve) occupy spaces between the cranial and facial bones. These two gangliated cords lie parallel with one another as far as the sacrum, on which bone they converge, communicating together through a single ganglion {ganglion impar), placed in front of the coccyx. Some anatomists also state that the two cords are joined at their cephalic extremity, through a small ganglion (the ganglion of Ribes), situated upon the anterior communicating artery. Moreover, the chains of opposite sides communicate between these tw^o extremities in several parts, by means of the nervous cords that arise from them. The ganglia are somewhat less numerous than the vertebrae : thus there are only three in the cervical region, twelve in the dorsal, four in the lumbar, five in the sacral, and one in the coccygeal. The sympathetic nerve, for convenience of description, may be divided into several parts, according to the position occupied by each; and the number of ganglia, of which each part is composed, may be thus arranged : Cephalic portion . . 4 ganglia. Cervical „ ; . 3 „ Dorsal „ . 12 „ Lumbar ., . . 4 „ Sacral „ . . 5 " • Coccygeal „ . . 1 „ Each ganglion may be regarded as a distinct centre, from or to which branches pass in various directions. These branches may be thus arranged :—1. Branches of communication between the ganglia. 2. Branches of communication with the cerebral or spinal nerves. 3. Primary branches passing to be distributed to the arteries in the vicinity of the ganglia, and to the viscera, or proceeding to other ganglia placed in the thorax, abdomen, or pelvis. 1. The branches of communication between the ganglia are composed of grey and white nerve-fibres, the latter being continuous with those fibres of the spinal nerves which pass to the ganglia. 2. The branches of communication between the ganglia and the cerebral or spinal nerves also consist of a white and a grey portion; the former proceeding from the spinal nerve to the ganglion, the latter passing from the ganglion to the spinal nerve. 3. The primary branches of distribution also consist of two kinds of nerve-fibres, the sympathetic and spinal. They have a remarkable tendency to form intricate plexuses, which encircle the blood-vessels, and are conducted by them to the viscera. The greater number, however, of these branches pass to a series of visceral ganglia ; these are ganglionic masses, of variable size, situated in the large cavities of the trunk, the thorax, and abdomen; and are connected with the roots of the great arteries of the viscera. The visceral ganglia are single and unsymmetrical, and are called the cardiac and semilunar. From these visceral ganglia numerous plex- uses of nerves are derived, which entwine round the blood-vessels and are conducted by them to the viscera.