DEVELOPMENT OF BONE. Ixi down, while the cells themselves remain persistent as the bone-corpuscles. (Fig. XXIV.) As fresh laminae of this osseous formation are laid down, fresh layers of osteoblasts line the interior of the cavity, till the process results in the completion of the Haversian canal and its system of lamellae. The precise mode of origin of the canaliculi from the bone-corpuscles has not been ascertained. Thus far, then, we have followed the steps of a process by which a solid bony mass is produced, having vessels running into it from the peri- osteum, Haversian canals in which those vessels run, medullary spaces filled with foetal marrow, lacunae with their contained bone-cells, and cana- liculi growing out of those lacunae. Fig. XXIV.—Transverse section from the femur of a human embryo about eleven weeks old. a, a medullary sinus cut transversely and b, another longitudinally, c, osteo- blasts, d, newly formed osseous substance of a lighter colour, e, that of greater age. /; lacunas with their cells, (j, a cell still united to an osteoblast. Fig. XXIII.—Vertical section from the edge of the ossifying portion of the diaphysis of a metatarsal bone from a fcetal calf, after Miiller. a, ground- mass of the cartilage; b, of the bone. c, newly formed bone-cells in profile, more or less embedded in intercellular substance, d, medullary canal in pro- cess of formation, with vessels and medullary cells. e, f, bone-cells on their broad aspect, y, cartilage cap- sules arranged in rows, and partly with shrunken cell-bodies. This process of ossification, however, is not the origin of the whole of the skeleton, for even in those bones in which the ossification proceeds in a great measure from a single centre situated in the cartilaginous diaphysis a considerable part of the original bone is formed by intra-membranous ossification beneath the perichondrium or periosteum. Kolliker (following H. Miiller, and referring to an observation of Howship to the same effect made so long ago as 1819) describes the first rudiment of a long bone as having the form of a tube, surrounding the primordial cartilage; thus showing that the intra-membranous ossification of the outer part of the