THE SKELETON. e6 slight, affecting only its lower end. In another set of cases, the bone was curved throughout its wThole length, but especially towards its middle. In a third set, the degree of curvature was less marked, and affected especially the lower third of the bone. Development (fig. 17). The sacrum, formed by the union of five vertebrae, has thirty-five centres of ossification. The bodies of the sacral vertebrae have each three ossific centres ; one for the central part, and one for the epiphysal plates on its upper and under surface. The arch of each sacral vertebra is developed by two centres, one for each lamina. These unite with each other behind, and subsequently join the body. The lateral masses have six additional centres, two for each of the first three vertebrae. These centres make their appearance above and to the outer side of the anterior sacral foramina (fig. 17), and are developed into separate segments, which correspond with the anterior transverse processes (fig. 18); they are subse- quently blended with each other, and with the bodies and the posterior transverse processes, to form the lateral mass. Lastly, each lateral surface of the sacrum is developed by two epiphysal plates (fig. 19); one for the auricular surface, and one for the remaining part of the thin lateral edge of the bone. Period of Development. At about the eighth or ninth week of foetal life, ossifi- cation of the central part of the bodies of the first three vertebrae commences ; and, at a somewhat later period, that of the last two. Between the sixth and eighth months ossification of the laminae takes place; and, at about the same period, the characteristic osseous tubercles for the first three sacral vertebrae make their appearance. The laminae join to form the arch, and are united to the bodies, first, in the lowest vertebrae. This occurs about the second year, the uppermost segment appearing as a single piece about the fifth or sixth year. About the six- teenth year the epiphyses for the upper and under surfaces of the bodies are* formed ; and, between the eighteenth and twentieth years, those for each lateral surface of the sacrum make their appearance. At about this period the last two segments are joined to one another; and this process gradually ex- tending upwards, all the pieces become united, and the bone is completely formed from the twenty- fifth to the thirtieth year of life. Articulations. With four bones : the last lumbar vertebra, coccyx, and the two ossa innominata. Attachment of Muscles. In front, the Pyriformis and Coccygeus, and a portion of the Iliacus to the base of the bone; behind, the Gluteus maximus, Latissimus dorsi, Multifidus spinae, and Erector spinae, and sometimes the Extensor coccygis. The Coccyx. The Coccyx (kokkvE, cuckoo), so called from having been compared to a cuckoo's beak (fig. 20), is usually formed of four small segments of bone, the most rudimentary parts of the vertebral column. In each of the first three segments may be traced a rudimentary body, articular and transverse pro- cesses; the last piece (sometimes the third) is a mere nodule of bone, without distinct pro- cesses. All the segments are destitute of laminae and spinous processes; and, consequently, of spinal canal and intervertebral foramina. The first segment is the largest; it resembles the lower- most sacral vertebra, and often exists as a separate J&tterwr ^iMyja oa piece; the last three, diminishing in size from above downwards, are usually blended 20,—Coccyx. (Jovnva