ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 66o and a half in thickness, and weighs about seven ounces. At birth, its weight, in pro- portion to the entire body, is almost equal to what is observed in the adult, being as i to 350 ; whilst in the adult it varies from 1 to 320 and 400. In old age, the organ not only decreases in weight, but decreases considerably in proportion to the entire body, being as 1 to 700. The size of the spleen is increased during and after diges- tion, and varies considerably according to the state of nutrition of the body, being large in highly-fed, and small in starved animals. In intermittent and other fevers it becomes much enlarged, weighing occasionally from 18 to 20 pounds. Structure.—The spleen is invested by two coats : an external serous, and an internal fibrous elastic coat. The external, or serous coat, is derived from the peritoneum; it is thin, smooth, and in the human subject intimately adherent to the fibrous elastic coat. It invests almost the entire organ; being reflected from it, at the hilum, on to the great end of the stomach, and at the upper end of the organ on to the Diaphragm. The fibrous elastic coat forms the framework of the spleen. It invests the exterior of the organ, and at the hilum is reflected inwards upon the vessels in the form of vaginae or sheaths. From these sheaths, as well as from the inner surface of the fibro-elastic coat, numerous small fibrous bands, trabecules (fig. 372), are given off in all directions; these uniting, constitute the areolar framework of the spleen. The proper coat, the sheaths of the vessels and the trabecule, consist of a dense mesh of white and yellow elastic fibrous tissues, the latter considerably predominating. It 373.—The Malpighian Corpuscles, and their Relation with the Splenic Artery and its Branches. is owing to the presence of this tissue, that the spleen possesses a considerable amount of elasticity to allow of the very considerable variations in size that it presents under certain circumstances. In some of the mammalia, in addition to the usual consti- tuents of this tunic, there are found numerous pale, flattened, spindle-shaped, nucleated fibres, like unstriped muscular fibres. It is probably owing to this structure, that the spleen possesses, when acted upon by the galvanic current, faint traces of contractility. The proper substance of the spleen or spleen pulp is enclosed in the meshes of a fine areolar tissue, composed of branching corpuscles similar to those of the common connective tissue. The spaces formed by the processes of these cells enclose the