CRANIAL NERVES. tube ; the latter arises from the ganglion, near the origin of the internal pterygoid nerve, and passes forwards. Submaxillary Ganglion. (Fig. 280.) The submaxillary ganglion is of small size, circular in form, and situated above the deep portion of the submaxillary gland, near the posterior border of the Mylo- hyoid muscle, being connected by filaments with the lower border of the gustatory nerve. Branches of communication. This ganglion is connected with the gustatory nerve by a few filaments which join it separately, at its fore and back part. It also receives a branch from the chorda tympani, by which it communicates with the facial; and communicates with the sympathetic by filaments from the nervi molles —the sympathetic plexus around the facial artery. Branches of distribution. These are five or six in number ; they arise from the lower part of the ganglion, and supply the mucous membrane of the mouth and Wharton's duct, some being lost in the submaxillary gland. According to Meckel, a branch from this ganglion occasionally descends in front of the Hyo-glossus muscle, and, after joining with one from the hypoglossal, passes to the Genio-hyo-glossus muscle. Sixth Nerve. (Fig. 279.) The Sixth Nerve (Abducens) supplies the External rectus muscle. Its apparent origin is by several filaments from the constricted part of the corpus pyramidale, close to the pons, or from the lower border of the pons itself. The deep origin of this nerve has been traced, by Mayo, between the fasciculi of the corpus pyramidale, to the posterior part of the medulla, where Stilling has shown its connection with a grey nucleus in the floor of the fourth ventricle, with which the facial is also connected. The nerve pierces the dura mater, immediately below the posterior clinoid process, lying in a groove by the side of the body of the sphenoid bone. It passes forwards through the cavernous sinus, lying on the outer side of the internal carotid artery, where it is joined by several filaments from the carotid and cavernous plexus, by one from Meckel's ganglion (Bock), and another from the ophthalmic nerve. It enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, and lies above the ophthalmic vein, from which it is separated by a lamina of dura mater. It then passes between the two heads of the External rectus, and is distri- buted to that muscle on its ocular surface. The above-mentioned nerves, as well as the ophthalmic division of the fifth as they pass to the orbit, bear a certain relation to each other in the cavernous sinus, at the sphenoidal fissure, and in the cavity of the orbit, which will be now described. In the cavernous sinus, the third, fourth, and ophthalmic division of the fifth, are placed in the dura mater of the outer wall of the sinus, in their numerical order, both from above downwards, and from within outwards. The sixth nerve lies at the outer side of the internal carotid artery. As these nerves pass forwards to the sphenoidal fissure, the third and fifth nerves become divided into branches, and the sixth approaches the rest; so that their relative position becomes consi- derably changed. In the sphenoidal fissure, the fourth, and the frontal and lachrymal divisions of the ophthalmic, lie upon the same plane, the former being most internal, the latter external; and they enter the cavity of the orbit above the muscles. The remaining nerves enter the orbit between the two heads of the External rectus. The superior division of the third is the highest of these; beneath this lies the nasal branch of the fifth; then the inferior division of the third; and the sixth lowest of all. In the orbit, the fourth, and the frontal and lachrymal divisions of the ophthal- mic, lie on the same plane immediately beneath the periosteum, the fourth nerve