SPINAL NERVES. 523 Ganglia of the Spinal Nerves. A ganglion is developed upon the posterior root of each of the spinal nerves. These ganglia are of an oval form, and of a reddish colour ; they bear a proportion in size to the nerves upon which they are formed, and are placed in the inter- vertebral foramina, external to the point where the nerves perforate the dura mater. Each ganglion is bifid internally, where it is joined by the two bundles of the pooterior root, the two portions being united into a single mass externally. The ganglia upon the first and second cervical nerves form an exception to these characters, being placed on the arches of the vertebrae over which the nerves pass. The ganglia, also, of the sacral nerves are placed within the spinal canal; and that on the coccygeal nerve, also in the canal about the middle of its posterior root. Immediately beyond the ganglion, the two roots coalesce, their fibres intermingle, and the trunk thus formed passes out of the intervertebral foramen, and divides into an anterior division * for the supply of the anterior part of the body; and a posterior division for the posterior part, each containing fibres from both roots. Anterior Divisions of the Spinal Nerves. The anterior divisions of the spinal nerves supply the parts of the body in front of the spine, including the limbs. They are for the most part larger than the posterior divisions ; this increase of size being proportioned to the larger extent of structures they are required so supply. Each branch is connected by slender filaments ^with the sympathetic. In the dorsal region, the anterior divisions of the spinal nerves are completely separate from each other, and are uniform in their distribution ; but in the cervical, lumbar, and sacral regions, they form intricate plexuses previous to their distribution. Posterior Divisions of the Spinal Nerves. The posterior divisions of the spinal nerves are generally smaller than the anterior : they arise from the trunk -resulting from the union of the roots, in the intervertebral foramina; and, passing backwards, divide into external and internal branches, which are distributed to the muscles and integument behind the spine. The first cervical and lower sacral nerves are exceptions to these characters. Cervical Nerves. The roots of the cervical nerves increase in size from the first to the fifth, and then remain the same size to the eighth. The posterior roots bear a proportion to the anterior as 3 to i, which is much greater than in any other region, the individual filaments being also much larger than those of the anterior roots. In direction, the roots of the cervical are less oblique than those of the other spinal nerves. The first cervical nerve is directed a little upwards and outwards; the second is horizontal; the others are directed obliquely downwards and outwards, the lowest being the most oblique, and consequently longer than the upper, the dis- tance between their place of origin and their point of exit from the spinal canal never exceeding the depth of one vertebra. The trunk of the first cervical nerve {suboccipital) leaves the spinal canal, between the occipital bone and the posterior arch of the atlas; the second, between the pos- terior arch of the atlas and the lamina of the axis ; and the eighth (the last), between the last cervical and first dorsal vertebras. Each nerve, at its exit from the intervertebral foramen, divides into an anterior and a posterior division. The anterior divisions of the four upper cervical nerves form the cervical plexus. The anterior divisions of the four lower cervical nerves, together with the first dorsal, form the brachial plexus. * For the sake of clearness, I have thought it better to call the primary branches into which the compound nerve divides, 4 divisions,' instead of ' branches' as in the former editions.