GENERAL ANATOMY. civ measure at their base about ■j^th of an inch in diameter. On the general surface of the body, more especially in those parts which are endowed with slight sensibility, they are few in number, short, exceed- ingly minute, and irregularly scattered over the surface; but in other situations, as upon the palmar surface of the hands and fingers, upon the plantar surface of the feet and toes, and around the nipple, they are long, of large size, closely aggregated together, and arranged in parallel curved lines, forming the elevated ridges seen on the free surface of the epidermis. In these ridges, the larger papilla? are arranged in a double row, with smaller papilla? between them ; and these rows are subdivided into small square-shaped masses by short transverse furrows, regularly disposed, in the centre of each of which is the minute orifice of the duct of a sweat-gland. No papilla? exist in the grooves between the ridges. In structure, the papilla? resemble the superficial layer of the cutis; consisting of a homogeneous tissue, faintly fibrillated, and con- taining a few fine elastic fibres. The smaller papilla? contain a single capillary loop; but in the larger the vessels are convoluted to a greater or less degree; each papilla also contains one or more nerve-fibres, but the mode in which these terminate is uncertain. In those parts in which the sense of touch is highly developed, as in the lips and palm of the hand, the nerve-fibres are connected with the c tactile corpuscles.' Ivolliker considers that the central part of the papilla? generally con- sists of a connective tissue more homogeneous than that of the outer part, surrounded by a sort of sheath of elastic fibres, and he believes that these corpuscles are merely a variety of this structure. The corpuscles, and their connection with the nerves, have been described above. The epidermis, or cuticle (scarf-skin), is an epithelial structure, accu- rately moulded on the papillary layers of the derma. It forms a defensive covering to the surface of the true skin, and limits the evapo- ration of watery vapour from its free surface. It varies in thickness in different parts. Where it is exposed to pressure and the influence of the atmosphere, as upon the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, it is thick, hard, and horny in texture; whilst that which lies in contact with the rest of the body is soft and cellular in structure. The deeper and softer layers have been called the rete mucosum, the term rete being used from the deepest layers presenting, when isolated, numerous depres- sions, or complete apertures, which have been occupied by the projecting papilla?. The free surface of the epidermis is marked by a network of linear furrows of variable size, marking out the surface into a number of spaces of polygonal or lozenge-shaped form. Some of these furrows are large, as opposite the flexures of the joints, and correspond to the folds in the derma produced by their movements. In other situations, as upon the back of the hand, they are exceedingly fine, and intersect one another a.t various angles : upon the palmar surface of the hand and fingers, and upon the sole, these lines are very distinct, and are disposed in curves. They depend upon the large size and peculiar arrangement of the papilla? upon which the epidermis is placed. The deep surface of the epidermis is accurately moulded upon the papillary layer of the derma, each papilla