383 BRANCHES OF ULNAR. the ball of the thumb and the index finger, where it occasionally anastomoses with the superficialis volse, and a branch from the radialis indicis, thus completing the arch. The convexity of this arch is directed towards the fingers, its concavity towards the muscles of the thumb. If the thumb be put at right angles to the hand, the position of the superficial palmar arch will be roughly indicated by a line drawn along the lower margin of the thumb across the palm of the hand : the deep palmar arch is situated about a finger's breadth nearer to the carpus. The superficial palmar arch is covered by the Palmaris brevis, the palmar fascia, and integument; and lies upon the annular ligament, the muscles of the little finger, the tendons of the superficial flexor, and the divisions of the median and ulnar nerves, the latter accompanying the artery a short part of its course. Relations of the Superficial Palmar Arch. In front. Integument. Palmaris brevis. Palmar fascia. Peculiarities. The ulnar artery has been found to vary in its origin nearly in the propor- tion of one in thirteen cases, in one case arising lower than usual, about two or three inches below the elbow, and in all the other cases much higher, the brachial being a more frequent source of origin than the axillary. Variations iu the position of this vessel are more frequent than in the radial. When its origin is normal, the course of the vessel is rarely changed. When it arises high up, it is almost invariably superficial to the Flexor muscles in the forearm, lying commonly beneath the fascia, more rarely between the fascia and integument. In a few cases, its position was subcutaneous in the upper part of the forearm, subaponeurotic in the lower part. Surgical Anatomy. The application of a ligature to this vessel is required in cases of wound of the artery, or of its branches, or in consequence of aneurism. In the upper half of the forearm, the artery is deeply seated beneath the superficial Flexor muscles, and their division would be requisite in a case of recent wound of the artery in this situation, in order to secure it, but under no other circumstances. In the middle and lower third of the fore- arm, this vessel may be easily secured by making an incision on the radial side of the tendon of the Flexor carpi ulnaris: the deep fascia being divided, and the Flexor carpi ulnaris and its companion muscle, the Flexor sublimis, being separated from each other, the vessel will be exposed, accompanied by its venae comites, the ulnar nerve lying on its inner side. The veins being separated from tlie artery, the ligature should be passed from the ulnar to the radial side, taking care to avoid the ulnar nerve. Behind. Ulnar ■ Annular ligament. Artery in j Origin of muscles of little finger. Hand. / Superficial flexor tendons. / Divisions of median and ulnar / nerves. The branches of the ulnar artery may be arranged in the following groups f Anterior ulnar recurrent. Posterior ulnar recurrent. Forearm. <J [ Anterior interosseous. I Interosseous ^ ^ . . I l Posterior interosseous. L Muscular. Anterior carpal. Posterior carpal. Deep or communicating branch. Disrital. Wrist Hand { { The anterior ulnar recurrent (fig. 224) arises immediately below the elbow joint, passes upwards and inwards between the Brachialis anticus and Pronator radii teres, supplies those muscles, and, in front of the inner condyle, anastomoses with the anastomotica magna and inferior profunda. The posterior ulnar recurrent is much larger, and arises somewhat lower than the preceding. It passes backwards and inwards, beneath the Flexor sublimis, and ascends behind the inner condyle of the humerus. In the interval between