ARTERIES. 372 Relations of the Third Portion of the Axillary Artery, In front. Integument and fascia. Pectoralis major. Outer side, Coraco-brachialis. Median nerve. Musculo-cutaneous nerve. Inner side. Ulnar nerve. Internal cutaneous nerves. Axillary vein. Behind. Subscapularis. Tendons of Latissimus dorsi and Teres major. Musculo-spiral, and circumflex nerves. Peculiarities. The axillary artery, in about one case out of every ten, gives off a large branch, which forms either one of the arteries of the forearm, or a large muscular trunk. In the first set of cases, this artery is most frequently the radial (i in 33), sometimes the ulnar (1 in 72), and, very rarely, the interosseous (1 in 506). In the second set of cases, the trunk has been found, to give origin to the subscapular, circumflex, and profunda arteries of the arm. Sometimes, only one of the circumflex, or one of tliR profunda arteries, arose from the trunk. In these cases, the brachial plexus surrounded the trunk of the branches, and not the main vessel. Surgical Anatomy. The student, having carefully examined the relations of the axillary artery in its various parts, should now consider in what situation compression of this vessel may be most easily effected, and the best position for the application of a ligature to it when necessary, Compression of the vessel is required in the removal of tumours, or in amputation of the upper part of the arm; and the only situation in which this can be effectually made, is in the lower part of its course; by pressing on it in this situation from within outwards against the humerus, the circulation may be effectually arrested. The application of a ligature to the axillary artery may be required in cases of aneurism of the upper part of the brachial; and there are only two situations in which it can be secured, viz., in the first and in the third parts of its course; for the axillary artery at its central part is so deeply seated, and, at the same time, so closely surrounded with large nervous trunks, that the application of a ligature to it in that situation would be almost impracticable. In the third part of its course, the operation is most simple, and may be performed in the following manner:—The patient being placed on a bed, and the arm separated from the side, with the hand supinated, the head of the humerus is felt for, and an incision made through the integument over it, about two inches in length, a little nearer to the anterior than the posterior fold of the axilla. After carefully dissecting through the areolar tissue and fascia, the median nerve and axillary vein are exposed; the former having been dis- placed to the outer, and the latter to the inner side of the arm, the elbow being at the same time bent, so as to relax the structures, and facilitate their separation, the ligature may be passed round the artery from the ulnar to the radial side. This portion of the artery is occasionally crossed by a muscular slip derived from the Latissinius dorsi, which may mis- lead the surgeon during an operation. The occasional existence of this muscular fasciculus was spoken of in the description of the muscles. It may easily be recognised by the trans- verse direction of its fibres. The first portion of the axillary artery may be tied in cases of aneurism encroaching so far upwards that a ligature cannot be applied in the lower part of its course. Notwith- standing that this operation has been performed in some few cases, and with success, its performance is attended with much difficulty and danger. The student will remark that, in this situation, it would be necessary to divide a thick muscle, and, after separating the costo-coracoid membrane, the artery would be exposed at the bottom of a more or less deep space, with the cephalic and axillary veins in such relation with it as must render the application of a ligature to this part of the vessel particularly hazardous. Under such cir- cumstances it is an easier, and, at the same time, more advisable operation, to tie the sub- clavian artery in the third part of its course. In a case of wound of the vessel, the general practice of cutting down upon, and tying it above and below the wounded point, should be adopted in all cases. Collateral circulation after ligature of the axillary artery. If the artery be tied above the origin of the acromial thoracic, the collateral circulation will be carried on by the same branches as after the ligature of the subclavian; if at a lower point, between the acromial thoracic and subscapular arteries, the latter vessel, by its free anastomoses with the other scapular arteries, branches of the subclavian, will become the chief agent in carrying on the circulation, to which the long thoracic, if it be below the ligature, will materially contribute,