THE EYE. 577 The naso-palatine nerve supplies the middle of the septum. The larger, or anterior palatine nerve, supplies the middle and lower spongy- bones. The Eye. The eyeball is contained in the cavity of the orbit. In this situation it is securely protected from injury, whilst its position is such as to ensure the most extensive range of sight. It is acted upon by numerous muscles, by which it is capable of being directed to any part, supplied by vessels and nerves, and is additionally protected in front by several appendages, such as the eyebrow, eye- lids, &c. y The eyeball is spherical in form, having the segment of a smaller and more prominent sphere engrafted upon its anterior part. It is from this circumstance that the antero-posterior diameter of the eyeball, which measures about an inch, exceeds the transverse diameter by about a line. The segment of the larger sphere, which forms about five-sixths of the globe, is opaque, and formed by the sclerotic, the tunic of protection to the eyeball; the smaller sphere, which forms the remaining sixth, is transparent, and formed by the cornea. The axes of the eyeballs are nearly parallel, and clo not correspond to the axis of the orbits, which are directed outwards. The optic nerves follow the direction of the axes of the orbits, and enter the eyeball a little to their inner or nasal side. The eyeball is composed of several investing tunics, and of fluid and solid refracting media, called humours. The tunics are three in number :— 1. Sclerotic and Cornea. 2. Choroid, Iris, and Ciliary Processes. 3. Retina. The refracting media, or humours, are also three :— Aqueous. Crystalline (lens) and Capsule. Vitreous. The sclerotic and cornea form the external tunic of the eyeball; they are essentially fibrous in structure, the sclerotic being opaque, and forming the poste- rior five-sixths of the globe ; the cornea, which forms the remaining sixth, being transparent. The' Sclerotic (auXripog, hard) (fig. 308) has received its name from its extreme density and hardness ; it is a firm, unyielding, fibrous membrane, serving to main- tain the form of the globe. It is much thicker behind than in front. Its external surface is of a white colour, quite smooth, except at the points where the Recti and Obliqui muscles are inserted into it, and covered, for part of its extent, by the conjunctival membrane; hence the whiteness and brilliancy of the front of the eyeball. Its inner surface is stained of a brown colour, marked by grooves, in which are lodged the ciliary nerves, and connected by an exceedingly fine cellular tissue (lamina fusca) with the outer surface of the choroid. Behind, it is pierced by the optic nerve a little to its inner or nasal side, and is continuous with the fibrous sheath of the nerve, which is derived from the dura mater. At the point where the optic nerve passes through the sclerotic, this membrane forms a thin cribriform lamina (the lamina cribrosa); the minute orifices in this layer serve for the transmission of the nervous filaments, and the fibrous septa dividing them from one another are continuous with the membranous processes which separate the bundles of nerve-fibres. One of these openings, larger than the rest, occupies the centre of the lamella; it is called the porxis opticus, and transmits the arteria centralis retinae to the interior of the eyeball. Around the cribriform lamella are numerous small apertures for the transmission of the ciliary vessels and nerves. In front, the sclerotic is continuous with the cornea by direct continuity of tissue, but the opaque sclerotic overlaps the cornea rather more on its outer than on its inner surface. P P