519 EIGHTH. GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL. 285.—Nerves of tbe Eighth Pair, their Origin, Ganglia, and Communications. Snyulm- Grtnrjt. Pneume -gastric filaments from the facial. The distribution of the auditory nerve in the internal ear will be found described along with the anatomy of that organ in a subsequent page. Eighth Pair. (Fig. 285.) The eighth pair consists of three nerves, the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and spinal accessory. The Glossopharyngeal NERVE(Fig. 286) is distributed, as its name implies, to the tongue and pharynx, being the nerve of sensation to the mucous membrane of the pharynx, fauces, and tonsil; of motion to the Pharyngeal muscles; and a special nerve of taste in all the parts of the tongue to which it is distributed. It is the smallest of the three divisions of the eighth pair, and arises by three or four filaments, closely connected together, from the upper part of the medulla oblongata, immediately behind the olivary body. Its deep origin may be traced through the fasciculi of the lateral tract, to a nucleus of grey matter at the lower part of the floor of the fourth ventricle external to the fasciculi teretes. From its superficial origin, it passes outwa,rds across the flocculus, and leaves the skull at the central part of the j ugular foramen in a separate sheath of the dura mater and arachnoid, in front of the pneumogastric and spinal accessory nerves. In its passage through the jugular foramen, it grooves the lower border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; and, at its exit from the skull, passes forwards between the jugular vein and internal carotid artery, and descends in front of the latter vessel, and beneath the styloid process and the muscles connected with it, to the lower border of the Stylo-pharyngeus. The nerve now curves inwards, forming an arch on the side of the neck, and lying upon the Stylo-pharyngeus and the Middle constrictor of the pharynx, above the superior laryngeal nerve. It then passes beneath the Hyo-glossus, and is finally distributed to the mucous membrane of the fauces, and base of the tongue, the mucous glands of the mouth and tonsil. In passing through the jugular foramen, the nerve presents, in succession, two gangliform enlargements. The superior, the smaller, is called the jugular ganglion, the inferior and larger the petrous ganglion, or the ganglion of Andersch. The superior, or jugular ganglion, is situated in the upper part of the groove in which the nerve is lodged during its passage through the jugular foramen. It is ot very small size, and involves only the outer side of the trunk of the nerve, a small fasciculus passing beyond it, which is not connected directly with it. The inferior, or petrous ganglion, is situated in a depression in the lower border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone; it is larger than the former, and involves the whole of the fibres of the nerve. From this ganglion arise those filaments which connect the glosso-pharyngeal with other nerves at the base of the skull. Its branches of communication are with the pneumogastric, sympathetic, and facial, and the tympanic branch. The branches to the pneumogastric are two filaments, one to its auricular branch, and one to the upper ganglion of the pneumogastric. The branch to the sympathetic is connected with the superior cervical ganglion. The branch of communication with the facial perforates the posterior belly of the Digastric. It arises from the trunk of the nerve below the petrous ganglion, and joins the facial just after its exit from the stylo-mastoicl foramen. The tympanic branch (Jacobson's nerve) arises from the petrous ganglion, and enters a small bony canal in the lower surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone; the lower opening of which is situated on the bony ridge which separates the carotid canal from the jugular fossa. Jacobson's nerve ascends to the tympanum, enters that cavity by an aperture in its floor close to the inner