706 THE URINARY ORGANS. 4°°-—Diagrammatic Representation of the Blood-vessels in the Substance of the Cortex of the Kidney. I a network of capillaries from which the efferent arises (gl, fig. 400). This latter vessel makes its egress from the capsule near to the point where the afferent enters ; and then, anastomosing with other effe- rents from other tufts, contributes to form a dense venous plexus around the urinary tubes adjacent (shown at m in fig 400). The Malpighian capsule, which sur- rounds the glomerulus, is formed of ho- mogeneous membrane, thicker here than at any other part of the tube. It is pierced at a point usually opposite the centre of the tubule, with which it is con- tinuous, by the afferent and efferent renals, and is lined upon its inner surface by a delicate layer of either cubical or squamous epithelium; but as regards this layer, whether it is prolonged over the tuft either in whole or in part, there is a diversity of opinion among many of the most eminent observers. According to Henle, Ecker, and Bowman, it is not reflected upon the tuft at all, so that the latter hangs free and uncovered in the interior of the cap- sule (fig. 401 a); on the other hand, Gerlach, Isaachs, Moleschott, and Chrzon- szczewsky assert that it can be traced upon the whole of the tuft, and that the cells are even larger and better marked than those upon the internal surface of the m. Begion of the medullary ray. b. Region of the tortuous portion of the tubules, ai. Arteria interlobularis. vi. Vena interlobularis. va. Vas afferens. gl. Glomerulus, vp. Vas efferens. vz. Venous twig of the interlobularis.—(From Ludwig, in Strieker's ' Handbook.') 40I. FIG .B capsule (fig. 401 b) ; whilst yet a third arrangement has been described by Kollikcr, who says that the tuft has no epithelial lining on the greater part of its extent, but upon that portion which looks towards the commencing tubule a special layer of cubical cells can always be seen (fig. 401 c). In the frog, the cells lining the interior of the capsule, near its junction with the tube, are provided with cilia; but in the human subject their presence has not been satisfactorily demonstrated. The Tubuli Uriniferi : their course. The tubuli uriniferi commence as Mal- pighian capsules, and soon after their origin have an average diameter of 4-goth of an inch. Thus arising, they pass in so convoluted a manner throughout the cortical substance as to merit the name of tubuli contorti. Many of them, according to Henle, soon after their commencement, suddenly become smaller and straighten and, dipping down to a variable depth in the medullary structure, and returning from thence somewhat larger, re-enter the cortical. The portion of the tube between