THE TEETH. 613 vessels and nerves, which enter the cavity through the small aperture at the point of each fang. 33[.—Vertical Section of a Molar Tooth. Neck 332.—Vertical Section of a Bicus- pid Tooth. (Magnified.) The solid portion of the tooth consists of three distinct structures, viz. ivory (tooth-bone, or dentine), which forms the larger portion of the tooth ; enamel, which covers the ex- posed part, or crown; and the cortical substance, or cement (crusta petrosa), which is disposed as a thin layer on the surface of the fang. The Ivory, or dentine (fig. 332), forms the principal mass of a tooth; in its central part is the cavity enclosing the pulp. It is a modification of the osseous tissue, from which it differs, however, in structure and chemical composi- tion. On examination with the microscope, it is seen to con- sist of a number of minute wavy and branching tubes, having distinct parietes. They are called the dental tubuli, and are embedded in a dense homogeneous substance, the intertubular tissue. The dental tubuli are placed parallel with one another, and open at their inner ends into the pulp cavity. They pursue a wavy and undulating course towards the periphery. The direction of these tubes varies; they are vertical in the upper portion of the crown, oblique in the neck and upper part of the root, and towards the lower part of the root they are inclined downwards. The tubuli, at their commencement, are about 45^0" °f an inch in diameter; in their course they divide and subdivide dichotomously, so as to give to the cut surface of the dentine a striated appearance. From the sides of the tubes, especially in the fang, ramifications of extreme minuteness are given off, ,;Vj S t which join together in loops in the intertubular 1 W-'Y^^m substance, or terminate in small dilatations, from which branches are given off. Near the periphery of the dentine, the finer ramifications of the tubuli terminate in a somewhat similar manner. In the fang these ramifications occasionally pass into the crusta petrosa. The dental tubuli have com- paratively thick walls, and contain slender cylin- drical prolongations of the pulp tissue, first de- scribed by Mr. Tomes, and named Tomes's fibres, or dentinal fibres. These dentinal fibres are analogous to the soft contents of the canaliculi of bone. They commence in cells, the odontoblasts of Waldeyer, which will be more particularly described in the next section. Between Tomes's fibres and the ivory of the canals, there is an elastic resists the action of acids, the dentinal sheath of Fang mich homogeneous membrane Neumann. The intertubidar substance is translucent, finely granular, and contains the chief part of the earthy matter of the dentine. After the earthy matter has been removed by steeping a tooth in weak acid, the animal basis remaining is described by Henle as consisting of bundles of pale, granular, flattened fibres running parallel with the tubes; but by Mr. Nasmyth as consisting of a mass of brick-shaped cells surround- ing the tubules. By Czermak and Mr. Salter it is supposed to consist of lamina? which run parallel with the pulp cavity, across the direction of the tubes. A section of dentine often displays a series of irregular cavities, ' the interglobular spaces,' which are filled up by a transparent soft material, and are believed to be the result of imperfect calcification of the fibres of the dentine. They have received their name from the fact that they are surrounded by minute nodules or globules of dentine.