747 THE SPERMATIC (JANAL. Poupart's ligament at the inner side of the Internal oblique, being connected with that muscle, and also occasionally with the Transversalis. It passes along the outer side of the spermatic cord, descends with it through the external ring upon the front and sides of the cord, and forms a series of loops, which differ in thickness and length in different subjects. Those at the upper part of the cord are exceed- ingly short, but they become in succession longer and longer, the longest reaching down as low as the testicle, where a few are inserted into the tunica vaginalis. These loops are united together by areolar tissue, and form a thin covering over the cord, the fascia cremasteric®. The fibres ascend along the inner side of the cord, and are inserted by a small pointed tendon, into the crest of the os pubis and front of the sheath of the Rectus muscle. It will be observed, that the origin and insertion of the Cremaster is precisely similar to that of the lower fibres of the Internal oblique. This fact affords an easy explanation of the manner in which the testicle and cord are invested by this muscle. At an early period of foetal life, the testis is placed at the lower and back part of the abdominal cavity, but, during its descent towards the scrotum which takes place before birth, it passes beneath the arched border of the Internal oblique. In its passage beneath this muscle some fibres are derived from its lower part, which accompany the testicle and cord into the scrotum. It occasionally happens that the loops of the Cremaster surround the cord, some lying behind as well as in front. It is probable that, under these circumstances, the testis, in its descent, passed through instead of beneath the fibres of the Internal oblique. In the descent of an oblique inguinal hernia, whicli takes the same course as the spermatic cord, the Cremaster muscle forms one of its coverings. This muscle becomes largely developed in cases of hydrocele and large old scrotal hernia?. No such muscle exists in the female, but an analogous structure is developed in those cases where an oblique inguinal hernia descends beneath the margin of the Internal oblique. The Internal Oblique should be detached from Poupart's ligament, separated from the Transversalis to the same extent as in the previous incisions, and reflected inwards on to the sheath of the Pectus (fig. 426). The circumflex iliac vessels, which lie between these two muscles, form a valuable guide to their separation. The Transversalis muscle has been previously described (p. 254). Its lower part is partly fleshy and partly tendinous in structure; this portion arises from the outer third of Poupart's ligament, and, arching downwards and inwards over the cord, terminates in an aponeurosis, which is inserted into the linea alba, the crest of the pubes, and the pectineal line to the extent of an inch, forming, together with the Internal oblique, the conjoined tendon. Between the lower border of this muscle and Poupart's ligament, a space is left in which is seen the fascia transversalis. The inguinal, or spermatic canal, contains the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. It is an oblique canal, about an inch and a half in length, directed downwards and inwards, and placed parallel with, and a little above, Poupart's ligament. It communicates, above, with the cavity of the abdomen, by means of the internal abdominal ring, which is the point where the cord enters the spermatic canal; and terminates, below, at the external ring. It is bounded, in front, by the integument and superficial fascia, by the aponeurosis of the External oblique throughout its whole length, and by the Internal oblique for its outer third; behind, by the conjoined tendon of the Internal oblique and Transversalis, the triangular ligament, transversalis fascia, and the subperitoneal fat and peritoneum; above, bythe arched fibres of the Internal oblique and Transversalis; below, by the union of the fascia transversalis with Poupart's ligament. That form of protrusion in which the intestine follows the course of the spermatic cord along the spermatic canal, is called oblique inguinal hernia. The fascia transversalis is a thin aponeurotic membrane, which lies between the