132 THE SKELETON. Structure. Like that of the other long bones. Development. By three centres (fig. 11 j ) : one for the shaft, and one for each extremity. Ossification commences in the centre of the shaft about the same time as in the femur, the fifth week, and gradually extends towards either ex- tremity. The centre for the upper epiphysis appears at birth ; it is flat- tened in form, and has a thin tongue- shaped process in front, which forms the tubercle. That for the lower epiphysis appeal's in the second year. The lower epiphysis joins the shaft at about the twentieth year, and the upper one about the twenty fifth year. Two additional centres occa- sionally exist, one for the tongue- shaped process of the upper epiphysis, the tubercle, and one for the inner malleolus. Articulations. With three bones : the femur, fibula, and astragalus. Attachment of Muscles. To the inner tuberosity, the Semimembra- nosus : to the outer tuberosity, the Tibialis anticus and Extensor longus digitorum : to the shaft, its internal surface, the Sartorius, Gracilis, and Semitendinosus; to its external sur- face, the Tibialis anticus; to its poste- rior surface, the Popliteus, Soleus, Flexor longus digitorum, and Tibialis posticus; to the tubercle, the ligamentum patellae. The Fibula. (Figs. 109, 110.) The Fibula is situated at the outer side of the leg. It is the smaller of the two bones, and, in proportion to its length, the most slender of all the long bones ; it is placed nearly parallel with the tibia. Its upper extremity is small, placed below the level of the knee-joint, and excluded from its formation; the lower extremity inclines a little forwards, so as to be on a plane anterior to that of the upper end, projects below the tibia, and forms the outer ankle. It presents for examination a shaft and two extremities. The Upper Extremity, or Head, is of an irregular rounded form, presenting above a flattened articular facet, directed upwards and inwards, for articulation with a corresponding facet on the external tuberosity of the tibia. On the outer side is a thick and rough prominence, continued behind into a pointed eminence, the styloid process, which projects upwards from the posterior part of the head. The prominence gives attachment to the tendon of the Biceps muscle, and to the long external lateral ligament of the knee, the ligament dividing the tendon into two parts. The summit of the styloid process gives attachment to the short external lateral ligament. The remaining part of the circumference of the head is rough, for the attachment of the anterior superior tibio-fibular ligament, and the upper and anterior part of the Peroneus longus in front; and of the posterior superior tibio-fibular ligament, and the upper fibres of the outer head of the Soleus muscle behind. The Lower Extremity, or external malleolus, is of a pyramidal form, somewhat flattened from without inwards, and is longer, and descends lower, than the internal malleolus. Its external surface is convex, subcutaneous, and continuous with a triangular (also subcutaneous) surface on the outer side of the shaft. The internal 111.—Flan of the Development of the Tibia. By Three Centres. ggptr extremity