lxvii MUSCULAR TISSUE. into the appearance shown in fig. XXIX., which shows a series of broad dark bands, separated by a bright band, which is itself divided into two by a row of dark dots. This appearance was first pointed out by Bask and Huxley. It is explained by Kranse as depending on some optical property of the investment of the separate sarcous elements. Thus it is supposed that the sarcous elements have an opaque interior and are united to each other by a transparent envelope or cell-membrane, the sides of which cohere so closely as only to show a single line, while their ends are united by some different material which breaks up the light, and causes a dark band or row of dark dots in the centre of the transparent streak formed by the cohesion of the two cell-membranes. Mr. Schafer describes the sarcous elements as formed by an aggregation of rod-like masses of protoplasm, having rounded ends, and believes that the two bright bands and intervening row of black dots are the result of the dif- fraction of the light around these rounded ends, 'just as a minute oil- Fig-. XXIX.—A, portion of a medium-sized human muscular fibre, magnified nearly 800 diameters. B, separated bundles of fibrils, equally magnified. a, «, larger, and b, b, smaller collections; c, still smaller ; d, d, the smallest which could be detached. Fig. XXX.—Part of a striped muscular fibre of hydropbylus prepared with absolute alcohol. Magnified 800 diams. (Klein and Noble Smith.) a. Sarcolemma. b. Membrane of Krause : owing to contraction during hardening, the sarcolemma shows regu- lar bulgings. At the side of Krause's membrane is the transparent lateral disc. The chief mass of a ' muscle compartment' is occupied by the con- tractile disc, composed of sarcous elements. Several nuclei of muscle corpuscles are shown, and in them a minute net- work. globule in water appears surrounded with a bright halo when examined under the microscope.' Klein describes the structure of striped muscle somewhat differently. The dark line which separates the two transparent discs seen in figure XXIX. between the rows of sarcous elements is a transparent homo- geneous membrane, the membrane of Krause, continuous with the sarco- lemma (fig. XXX.). The transparent band on either side of this mem- brane (transparent lateral disc) separates 011 either side the sarcous d 2