CXXl EARLY CHANGES IN EMBRYO. nerves,* and the genito-urinary organs, through the Wolffian bodies and other temporary foetal structures. The vascular system of the foetus extends to the yolk and the maternal parts along the umbilical vesicle and allantois, so that the greater part of these bodies and the outer layer of the amnion are also formed out of the mesoblast. The foetal portion of the placenta, being essentially a vascular structure, is also developed from the mesoblast. The method of formation of these various parts, and especially the mode of conversion of the mesoblast, is, however, very complicated. Germinal area.—In the mass of nucleated cells into which the yolk becomes converted during the formation of the blastodermic vesicle, a small agglomeration is formed, which then spreads out into an area of nucleated cells, from which the embryo is to be formed, and which has accordingly received the name of germinal disc or area germinativa. In this portion of the ovum the first trace of the embryo appears as a faint streak, which is called the primitive trace or primitive groove (fig. LXXIL). This groove first deepens into a furrow, bounded by two plates—the laminw dorsales, beneath which a delicate fibril appears—the chorda dor- salis or notochord—in which cartilage can very early be recognised. The chorda dorsalis and the laminae dorsales are the rudiments of the vertebral column and canal. The first approaches towards a definite form in the embryo are made (i) by the development of the rudimentary spinal column, (2) by the cleavage of the middle layer of the blastodermic membrane, from which a part of that column is derived, and (3) by the incurvation of the column at its cephalic end to form the brain and brain-case. Fig. LXXV.—Transverse sections through the embryo-chick before and some time after the closure of the medullary canal, to show the upward and downward inflections of the blastoderm (after Remak). A, at the end of the first day. 1, notochord : 2, primitive groove in the medullary canal ; 3, edge of the dorsal lamina ; 4, corneous layer or epiblast; 5, mesoblast divided in its inner part; 6, hypoblast or epithelial layer; 7, section of protovertebral plate. B, on the third day in the lumbar region. 1, notochord in its sheath; 2, medullary canal now closed in; 3, section of the medullary substance of the spinal cord; 4, corneous layer; 5, somatopleure of the mesoblast; 5', splanchnopleure (one figure is placed in the pleuro-peritoneal cavity) ; 6, layers of hypoblast in the intestines spreading also over the yolk 54x5, part of the fold of the amnion formed by epiblast and somatopleure. a The heaping up of the epiblast in the germinal area gives rise to a distinct longitudinal streak, which, when looked at from above, is seen to be constricted in the middle. Soon this heaped-up epiblast constitutes a * In the spinal nerves the part which is in connection with the cord, including the ganglia, is formed from the mesoblast, according to the most recent observations.