DEEP PERINEAL FASCIA. 765 the perimeum, where it blends with the Sphincter ani. Its fibres pass forwards on each side of the vagina, to be inserted into the corpora cavernosa and body of the clitoris. The Erector Clitoridis resembles the Erector penis in the male, but is smaller than it. The Transversus Perineal is inserted into the side of the Sphincter vaginae, and the Levator ani into the side of the vagina. The other muscles are precisely similar to those in the male. The Accelerator urinse and Erector penis muscles should now he removed, when the deep perineal fascia will he exposed, stretching across the front part of the outlet of the pelvis. The urethra is seen perforating its centre, just behind the bulb; and on either side is the cms penis, connecting the corpus cavernosum wich the ramus of the ischium and pubes. 434.—Deep Perineal Fascia. On the left side, the anterior layer has been removed. The Deep Perinatal Fascia (triangular ligament), is a dense membranous lamina, which closes the front part of the outlet of the pelvis. It is triangular in shape, about an inch and a half in depth, attached above, by its apex, to the under surface of the symphysis pubis and subpubic ligament; and on each side, to the rami of the ischium and pubes, beneath the crura penis. Its inferior margin, or base, is directed towards the rectum, and connected to the central tendi- nous point of the perinseum. It is continuous with the deep layer of the superficial fascia behind the Transversus perinsei muscle, and with a thin fascia which covers the cutaneous surface of the Levator ani muscle. The deep perinaeal fascia is perforated by the urethra, about an inch below the symphysis pubis. The aperture is circular in form, and about three or four lines in diameter. Above this is the aperture for the dorsal vein of the penis ; and, outside the latter, the pudic nerve and artery pierce it. The deep perinseal fascia consists of two layers, anterior and posterior; these are separated above, but united below. The anterior layer is continued forwards, around the anterior part of the mem- branous portion of the urethra, becoming lost upon the bulb.