rv THE SKIN. foeing invested by its epidermic sheath; so that when this layer is removed by maceration, it presents a number of pits or depressions corresponding to the elevations of the papilla?, as well as the furrows left in the intervals between them. Fine tubular prolongations from this layer are continued into the ducts of the sudoriferous and sebaceous glands. In structure, the epidermis consists of flattened cells, agglutinated together, and having a laminated arrangement. In the deeper layers the cells are large, rounded or columnar, and tilled with soft opaque contents. In the superficial layers the cells are flattened, transparent, dry, and firm, and their contents converted into a kind of horny matter. The difference in the structure of these layers is dependent upon the mode of growth of the epidermis. As the external layers desquamate, from their being constantly subjected to attrition, they are reproduced from beneath, successive layers gradually approaching towards the free surface, which, in their turn, die and are cast off. These cells are developed in the liquor sanguinis, which is poured out on the free surface of the derma ; they contain nuclei, and form a thin stratum of closely-aggregated nucleated cells, which cover the entire extent of the papillary layer. The deepest layers of cells, according to Kolliker, are of a columnar form, and are arranged perpendicularly to the free surface of the derma, forming either a single or a double, or even triple, layer; the lamina? succeeding these are composed of cells of a more rounded form, the contents of which are soft, opaque, granular, and soluble in acetic acid. As these cells successively approach the surface by the development of fresh layers from beneath, they assume a flattened form from the evaporation of their fluid contents, and finally form a transparent, dry, membranous scale, lose their nuclei, and apparently become changed in their chemical composition, as they are unaffected now by acetic acid. The black colour of the skin in the negro, and the tawny colour among some of the white races, is due to the presence of pigment in the cells of the cuticle. This pigment is more especially distinct in the cells of the deeper layer, or rete mucosum, and is similar to that found in the choroid. As the cells approach the surface and desiccate, the colour becomes partially lost. The arteries which supply the skin divide into numerous branches in the subcutaneous tissue; they then pass through the areolae of thecorium, and divide into a dense capillary plexus, which supplies the sudoriferous and sebaceous glands and the hair-follicles, terminating in the superficial layers of the corium, by forming a capillary network, from which numerous fine branches ascend to the papilla?. The lymphatic vessels are arranged in a minute plexiform network in the superficial layers of the corium, where they become interwoven with the capillary and nervous plexuses ; they are especially abundant in the scrotum and around the nipple. As above stated, they probably communi- cate with the interfascicular channels of the connective tissue. The nerves which supply the skin ascend with the vessels through the areola? of the deep layers of the corium to the more superficial layers, where they form a minute plexiform mesh. From this plexus, the primitive nerve-fibres pass to be distributed to the papillae. The nerves