635 THE SMALL INTESTINES. subdivided into from two to six tubular branches. Dr. Watney has pointed out that these convoluted or coiled tubes form the transition from the simple tubular follicles to the convoluted glands of Brunner which lie immediately below the pylorus. The gastric follicles are composed of a homogeneous basement membrane, lined upon its free surface by a layer of cells, which differ in their character in different parts of the stomach. Towards the pylorus these tubes are lined throughout with columnar epithelium ; they are termed the mucous glands, and are supposed to secrete the gastric mucus. In other parts of the organ, the deep part of each tube is filled with nuclei and a mass of granules; above these are a mass of nucleated cells, the upper fourth of the tuba being lined by columnar epithelium. These are called the peptic glands, and are the supposed agents in the secretion of the gastric juice. Simple follicles are found in greater or less number over the entire surface of the mucous membrane ; they are most numerous near the pyloric end of the stomach, and 348.—Minute Anatomy of Mucous Membrane of Stomach. Alveoli fyilhthu,* Blood ViW* are especially distinct in early life. The epithelium lining the mucous membrane of the stomach and its alveoli is of the columnar variety. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries supplying the stomach are, the coronaria ventri- culi, the pyloric and right gastroepiploic branches of the hepatic, the left gastroepi- ploic and vasa brevia from the splenic. They supply the muscular coat, ramify in the sub- mucous coat, and are finally distributed to the mucous membrane. The arrangement of the vessels in the mucous membrane is somewhat peculiar. The arteries break up at the base of the gastric tubules into a plexus of fine capillaries which run up- wards, between the tubules, anastomosing with each other, and ending in a plexus of larger capillaries, which surround the mouths of the tubes, and also form hexa- gonal meshes around the alveoli. From these latter the veins arise, which pursue a straight course back to the submucous tissue, between the tubules, to terminate in the splenic and portal veins. The lymphatics are numerous ; they consist of a super- ficial and deep set, which pass through the lymphatic glands found along the two curvatures of the organ. The nerves are the terminal branches of the right and left pneumogastric, the former being distributed upon the back, and the latter upon the front part of the organ. A great number of branches from the sympathetic also supply the organ. The Small Intestines. The small intestine is that part of the alimentary canal in which the chyme is mixed with the bile, the pancreatic juice, and the secretions of the various glands embedded in the mucous membrane of the intestine, and where the separation of the nutritive principle of the food, the chyle, is effected : this constitutes chylification. The small intestine is a convoluted tube, about twenty feet in length, which gradually diminishes in size from its commencement to its termination. It is contained in the central and lower parts of the abdominal and pelvic cavities, sur- rounded above and at the sides by the large intestine; in relation, in front, with the