xcvii THE VEINS. Fig. LVI.—Finest vessels on the arterial side. I, smallest artery. 2, transition vessel. 3, coarser capillaries. 4, finer capillaries, a, structureless membrane still with some nuclei, representative of the tunica adventitia; b, nuclei of the muscular fibre-cells ; c, nuclei within tlie small artery, perhaps appertaining to an epithelium; d, nuclei in the transition vessels. From the human brain.- Mag- nified 300 times. fibres of both being longitudinal. The interior thinner layer of nucleated tissue is regarded by Kolliker as the analogue of the middle coat. In the veins next above these in size (one-fifth of a line, according to Kolliker) a muscular layer and a layer of circular fibres can be traced, forming the middle coat, while the elastic and connective elements of the outer coat become more distinctly perceptible. In the middle-sized veins, the typical structure of these vessels becomes clear. The epithelium is of the same character as in the arteries, but its cells are more oval, less fusiform. It is supported by one or more layers of nucleated fibrous tissue, arranged longitudinally, and external to this is a layer of elastic fibrous tissue. This constitutes the internal coat. The middle coat is composed of a thick inner layer of connective tissue with elastic fibres, having intermixed in some veins a transverse layer of muscular fibres; and an outer layer consisting of longitudinal elastic la- mellae, varying from five to ten in number, alternating with layers of transverse muscular fibres and con- nective tissue, which resembles some- what in structure the middle coat of large arteries. The outer coat is similar in all essential respects to that of the arteries. In the large veins, as in the commencement of the vena portae, in the upper part of the abdominal portion of the inferior vena cava, and in the large hepatic trunks within the liver, the middle coat is thick, and its structure similar to that of the middle coat in medium- sized veins ; but its muscular tissue is scanty, and the longitudinal elastic The muscular tissue of this coat is best marked in the splenic and portal veins ; it is absent in certain parts of the vena cava below the liver, and wanting in the subclavian vein and terminal parts of the two cavse. In the largest veins the outer coat is from two to five times thicker than the middle coat, and contains a large number of longitudinal mus- cular fibres. This is most distinct in the hepatic part of the inferior vena cava, and at the termination of this vein in the heart; in the trunks of the hepatic veins ; in all the large trunks of the vena porta3; in the splenic, superior mesenteric, external iliac, renal, and azygos veins. Where the middle coat is absent, this muscular layer extends as far as the inner coat. In the renal and portal veins, it extends through the whole thickness of the outer coat; but in the other veins mentioned a layer of f networks less distinctly lamellated.