cxlvii DEVELOPMENT OF ALIMENTARY OANAL. vena cava, forming the iliac and other veins of the lower extremities. The termination of each cardinal vein above, in the sinus of Cnvier, or superior cava, also persists. The central atrophied portion of the cardinal veins is replaced by two veins, one on either side, called posterior vertebral, which receive the intercostal and lumbar veins, and a,re soon united by an Fig. XCIV.—Diagram of the formation of the main systemic veins. A, heart and venous system at the period when there are two venae cavse superiores, posterior view, i, left superior cava. 2, right superior cava. 3, inferior cava. 4, left inferior cardinal. 5, right inferior cardinal. 6, right jugular. 7, anastomosing branch between the jugulars (left innominate). 8, subclavian. 9, internal jugular. 10, external jugular. 11, middle obliterated portion of the posterior cardinal veins. 12, newly formed posterior vertebral veins. 13, anastomosis between the two vertebrals—trunk of small azygos. 14, iliac veins? proceeding from anastomosis between the inferior cava and posterior cardinals. 15, crural. 16, hypogastric—originally the distal ends of the cardinals. B, heart and permanent veins, posterior view. if obliterated left superior cava. 6, right innominate. J, left innominate. 8, subclavian. io; jugular. 13, trunk of the small azygos. 17, coronary sinus receiving the coronary vein. i8; superior intercostal. 19, superior small azygos. 20, inferior small azygos. oblique anastomosing branch. The right vertebral vein, together with the persistent termination of the right cardinal vein, forms the great azygos vein. The distal portion of the left vertebral vein, with the oblique ana- stomosing branch, forms the small azygos ; and the upper part of the left vertebral, with the persistent termination of the left cardinal, forms the left superior intercostal vein. The 4 foetal circulation' is spoken o£ at p. 677. Development of the alimentary canaL—The development of the intestinal cavity is, as shown above (p. cxxv.), one of the earliest phenomena of em- bryonic life. This original intestine is closed at either end, all the three blastodermic layers being here in contact, and is at first in free communi- cation with the umbilical vesicle (fig. XCV.). It is divided into three parts: the anterior or cephalic portion of the primitive intestine, the middle or abdominal, and the posterior or pelvic. From the first are formed the pharynx and oesophagus, with the trachea and lungs ; from the second, the stomach, small intestine and large intestine, as far as the i 2