cxliii DEVELOPMENT OF BLOOD-VESSELS. almost transverse, and divides off a smaller portion (ihe right ven- tricles) from the common cavity. This septum is complete about the eighth week, and then the interauricular begins to grow, commencing from above and behind, and coalescing with the edge of the interventri- cular septum so as to leave an orifice (auriculo-ventricular) on either side. The auricular septum, however, is not complete during foetal life, but leaves an aperture (foramen ovale) by which the two auricles com- municate. The heart is at first composed of a mass of foetal cells, but its rhythmic contractions can be observed even in this condition before the development of any muscular fibres, and even, according to some authors, before it is in connection with any vessels. Development of blood corpuscles and vessels.—The earliest blood-vessels are observed, as stated above, in the vascular area of the germinal mem- brane, external to the body of the embryo. The indifferent cells of which the substance is composed are, according to Klein, 6 vacuolated,' i.e. they Fig. XCI.—Various forms of mother-cells undergoing development into blood-vessels, from the middle layer of the chick's blastoderm (Klein), a, large mother-cell vacuolated, form- ing the rudimentary vessel, b, the wall of this cell formed of protoplasm, with nuclei embedded, and in some cases more or less detached and projecting, c, processes connected with neighbouring cells, formed of the common cellular substance of the germinal area. d, blood-corpuscles. /, small mother-cells—-vacuolation commencing. E, mother-cell in which only obscure granular matter is found. become enlarged, their nuclei multiply, and, as they do so, an empty space is formed in them, in which the nuclei become free and are converted into the blood-discs, while the neighbouring vacuolated bodies communicate together by processes in which similar cells are either enclosed or formed, and thus a continuous branching tube is produced (fig. XIII. c). The blood- globules are at first nucleated, and are larger than the mature red globules, and in this and other respects more resemble the white corpuscles ; but a red colour is very early visible in them. After the liver is formed, it seems the chief source from which immature blood-corpuscles are furnished to the circulation, and later on the spleen and lymphatic glands take up this function, and continue it after birth. The nucleated condition of the red globules ceases before birth. The precise mode in which the nucleated white corpuscle is converted into the non-nucleated red blood- globule, whether by a change in the whole cell, or by the disappearance of the cell and persistence of its nucleus, is not yet ascertained.