ORGANS OF SENSE. 596 The fenestra ovalis is a reniform opening, leading from the tympanum into the vestibule; its long diameter is directed horizontally, and its convex border is upwards. The opening in the recent state is closed by the lining membrane com- mon to both cavities, and is occupied by the base of the stapes. This membrane is placed opposite the membrana tympani, and is connected with it by the ossicula auditus. The fenestra rotunda is an oval aperture placed at the bottom of a funnel-shaped depression, leading into the cochlea. It is situated below and rather behind the 321.—View of Inner Wall of Tympanum. (Enlarged.) fenestra ovalis, from which it is separated by a rounded elevation, the promontory; it is closed in the recent state by a membrane {membrana tympani secundaria, Scarpa). This membrane is concave towards the tympanum, convex towards the cochlea. It consists of three layers : the external, or mucous, derived from the mucous lining of the tympanum ; the internal, or serous, from the lining membrane of the cochlea ; and an intermediate, or fibrous layer. The promontory is a rounded hollow prominence, formed by the projection out- wards of the first turn of the cochlea ; it is placed between the fenestra, and is fur- rowed on its surface by three small grooves, which lodge branches of the tympanic plexus. The rounded eminence of the aqumductus Fallopii, the prominence of the bony canal in which the portio dura is contained, traverses the inner wall of the tym- panum above the fenestra ovalis, and behind that opening curves nearly vertically downwards along the posterior wall. The pyramid is a conical eminence, situated immediately behind the fenestra ovalis, and in front of the vertical portion of the eminence above described ; it is hollow in the interior, and contains the Stapedius muscle ; its summit projects for- wards towards the fenestra ovalis, and presents a small aperture, which transmits the tendon of the muscle. The cavity in the pyramid is prolonged into a minute canal, which communicates with the aquseductus Fallopii, and transmits the nerve which supplies the Stapedius. The posterior wall of the tympanum is wider above than below, and presents for examination the Openings of the Mastoid Cells. These consist of one large irregular aperture, and several smaller openings, situated at the upper part of the posterior wall; they lead into canals, which communicate with large irregular cavities contained in the interior of the mastoid process. These cavities vary considerably in number, size, and form; they are lined by mucous membiane, continuous with that covering the cavity of the tym- panum.