700 OKUANS OF VOICE AND KESPIKATION. hyoid bone, and below, to the isthmus of the gland, or its pyramidal process. These form a muscle, which was named by Sommeriing the Levator glandulce thyroidece. Structure. The thyroid consists of numerous minute closed vesicles, composed of a homogeneous membrane, inclosed in a dense capillary plexus, and connected together into imperfect lobules by areolar tissue. These vesicles are spherical or oblong, perfectly distinct, and contain a yellowish fluid, in which are found floating numerous ' dotted corpuscles' and cells. The fluid coagulates by heat or alcohol, but preserves its transparency. In the foetus, and in young subjects, the cor- puscles lie in a single layer, in contact with the inner surface of these cavities, and become detached during the process of growth. The individual vesicles are enclosed in a vascular connective tissue by means of which they are packed together into lobules, the aggregation of which forms the lobes of the gland. In the foetal state, these vesicles are lined by a layer of small cylindrical epithelial cells, the cavity being- filled with a finely granular substance. Early in life commences, according to Frey, a colloid transformation by which the cells of the epithelium are separated from the lining of the vesicle, their nuclei become free and their contents are con- verted into a colloid, or gluey, matter. It is the excessive increase of this colloid matter which, according to this author, constitutes the essential phenomenon in the disease above alluded to, as bronchocele or goitre, but its occurrence to some extent 395.—Two lobules from the Thyroid of an Infant. a, Small glandular vesicles with their cells ; b, the same with incipient colloid metamorphosis, more strongly marked at c ; d, coarse lymph-canals ; e, fine radicles of the same ; /, an efferent vessel of considerable size. he regards as normal. The epithelial cells of the vesicles are supported on a basement membrane, and in the cellular tissue external to this are found the termi- nations of the small vessels, and the commencement of the lymphatic channels. Vessels and, Nerves. The arteries supplying the thyroid are the superior and inferior thyroid, and sometimes an additional branch (thyroidea media, or ima) from the arteria innominata, or the arch of the aorta, which ascends upon the front of the trachea. The arteries are remarkable for their large size and frequent anastomoses. The veins form a plexus on the surface of the gland, and on the front of the trachea, from which arise the superior, middle, and inferior thyroid veins; the two former terminating in the internal jugular, the latter in the vena innomi- nata. The lymphatics are numerous, of large size, and terminate in the thoracic and right lymphatic ducts. They are thus described by Frey : ' The whole envelope of the organ is covered by knotted trunks, which take their origin from a network of very complicated canals, situated in a deeper layer of the former. This latter network is formed around the secondary lobules of the gland by the reticular inter- communications of these canals (fig. 395,,/"). From the peripheral network formed of canals burrowing through the connective tissue of the capsule, lateral ramifications