.37 SPHENOID EONE. 1 Vesalii, transmitting a small vein. Lastly, in the apex of the spine of the sphenoid Is a short canal, sometimes double, the foramen spinosum; it transmits the middle meningeal artery. The external surface (fig. 35) is convex, and divided by a trans- verse ridge, the pterygoid ridge, into two portions. The superior or larger, convex From above downwards, concave from before backwards, enters into the formation of bhe temporal fossa, and gives attachment to part of the Temporal muscle. The in- ferior portion, smaller in size and concave, enters into the formation of the zygomatic ossa, and affords attachment to the External pterygoid muscle. It presents, at ts posterior part, a sharp-pointed eminence of bone, the spinous process, to which jire connected the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw, and the Laxator :J ympani muscle. The pterygoid ridge, dividing the temporal and zygomatic portions, gives attachment to part of the External pterygoid muscle. At its inner Lnd anterior extremity is a triangular spine of bone, which serves to increase the Ajjixtent of origin of this muscle. The anterior or orbital surface, smooth, andquad- ilateral in form, assists in forming the outer wall of the orbit. It is bounded above >y a serrated edge, for articulation with the frontal bone; below, by a rounded J jborder, which enters into the formation of the spheno-maxillary fissure ; internally, It enters into the formation of the sphenoidal fissure ; while externally it presents I serrated margin, for articulation with the malar bone. At the upper part of 'he inner border is a notch for the transmission of a branch of the ophthalmic jrtery; and at its lower part a small pointed spine of bone, which serves for the ttachment of part of the lower head of the External rectus. One or two small jDramina may occasionally be seen for the passage of branches of the deep temporal 1 rteries ; they are called the external orbital foramina. Circumference of the great \\ring (fig. 34) : commencing from behind, from the body of the sphenoid to the spine, be outer half of this margin is serrated, for articulation with the petrous portion of tt he temporal bone ; whilst the inner half forms the anterior boundary of the foramen tl iicerum medium, and presents the posterior aperture of the Vidian canal. In front utjj If the spine the circumference of the great wing presents a serrated edge, bevelled t it the expense of the inner table below, and of the external above, which articulates t kith the squamous portion of the temporal bone. At the tip of the great wing a i riangular portion is seen, bevelled at the expense of the internal surface, for articu- II: jition with the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. Internal to this is a broad n'i brrated surface, for articulation with the frontal bone : this surface is continuous i iternally with the sharp inner edge of the orbital plate, which assists in the forma- |ion of the sphenoidal fissure. |: The Lesser Wings (processes of Ingrassias) (fig. 34) are two thin triangular ot Mates of bone, which arise from the upper and lateral parts of the body of the ,! phenoid; and, projecting transversely outwards, terminate in a sharp point, li -he superior surface of each is smooth, flat, broader internally than externally, jad supports the anterior lobe of the brain. The inferior surface forms the Id »ack part of the roof of the orbit, and the upper boundary of the sphenoidal IjMlssure or foramen lacerum anterius. This fissure is of a triangular form, and |3acls from the cavity of the cranium into the orbit; it is bounded internally by he body of the sphenoid—above, by the lesser wing; below, by the internal margin f the orbital surface of the great wing—and is converted into a foramen by the I rticulation of this bone with the frontal. It transmits the third, the fourth, the (if Ophthalmic division of the fifth and the sixth nerves, some filaments from the cavernous (| »lexus of the sympathetic, and the ophthalmic vein. The anterior border of the |(1 ijssser wing is serrated for articulation with the frontal bone; the posterior, smooth nd rounded, is received into the fissure of Sylvius of the brain. The inner extre- X pity of this border forms the anterior clinoid process. The lesser wing is connected ,, jo the side of the body by two roots, the upper thin and flat, the lower thicker, jbliquely directed, and presenting on its outer side, near its junction with the body, 1 small tubercle, for the attachment of the common tendon of three of the muscles f the eye. Between the two roots is the optic foramen, for the transmission of the >ptic nerve and ophthalmic artery.