659 THE SPLEEN. The Spleen. The Spleen is usually classified, together with the thyroid, thymus, and supra- renal capsules, as one of the ductless, or blood glands. It possesses no excretory duct. It is of an oblong flattened form, soft, of very brittle consistence, highly vas- cular, of a dark bluish-red colour, and situated in the left hypochondriac region, embracing the cardiac end of the stomach. It is invested by peritoneum, and con- nected with the stomach by the gastro-splenic omentum. Relations.—The external surface is convex, smooth, and in relation with the under surface of the Diaphragm, which separates it from the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs of the left side. The internal surface is slightly concave, and divided br a vertical fissure, the hilum, into an anterior or larger, and a posterior or smaller portion. The hilum is pierced by several irregular apertures, for the entrance and exit of vessels and nerves. At the margins of the hilum, the two layers of peri- toneum are reflected from the surface of the spleen on to the cardiac end of the stomach, forming the gastro-splenic omentum, which contains between its layers the splenic vessels and nerves, and the vasa brevia. The internal surface is in rela- tion, in front, with the great end of the stomach; below, with the tail of the pancreas ; and behind, with the left crus of the Diaphragm, and corresponding supra- 372.—Transverse Section of the Spleen, showing the Trabecular Tissue and the Splenic Vein and its Branches. renal capsule. The upper end, thick and rounded, is in relation with the Dia- phragm, to which it is connected by a fold of peritoneum, the suspensory ligament. The loioer end is pointed; it is in relation with the left extremity of the transverse arch of the colon. The anterior margin is free, rounded, and often notched, especi- ally below. The posterior margin is rounded, and lies in relation with the left kidney, to which it is connected by loose areolar tissue. The spleen is held in its position by two folds of peritoneum : one, the gastro- splenic omentum, connects it with the stomach ; and the other, the suspensory liga- ment, with the under surface of the Diaphragm. The size and weight of the spleen are liable to very extreme variations at different periods of life, in different individuals, and in the same individual under different conditions. In the adult, in whom it attains its greatest size, it is usually above five inches in length, three or four inches in breadth, and an inch or an inch u u 2