ADIPOSE TISSUE. xlvii from the researches of Strieker, Cohnheim, and others, that the walls of the capillary vessels are permeable to the latter bodies, which are thus allowed to escape into the cellular tissue, there to undergo development, normally into the natural cells and cellular tissue, or abnormally into the corpuscular forms of lymph and pus, according to circumstances.* Treated with nitrate of silver, the cellular tissue is seen to consist of spaces formed by the fibres, united together by a homogeneous cement or 6 ground substance,' and filled by the cellular elements, which contain the protoplasm out of which the whole is developed and regenerated. Two special kinds of cellular tissue must be described—the mucoid, and the lymphoid or retiform. The mucoid or gelatinous tissue exists chiefly in the 'jelly of Wharton,' which forms the bulk of the umbilical cord, and in some other tissues of the foetus; but in the adult body also the vitreous humour of the eye is formed of gelatinous cellular tissue. This tissue is formed of rounded nucleated cells separated by a transparent jelly-like substance which in the umbilical cord shows traces of fibrillation. Retiform, adenoid, or lymphoid connective tissue is found extensively in many parts of the body, often surrounding the minute blood-vessels, and forming the commencement of lymphatic channels. It is formed of an interlacement of very fine fibres, at the nodal points of which stellate cells are situated. The interstices of the fibres are filled with the rounded granular corpuscles of the lymph. The neuroglia, or fine gelatinous con- nective tissue which supports the nervous elements in the cerebro-spinal axis and in the retina, is regarded as a modified form of the retiform connective tissue. ADIPOSE TISSUE. The common cellular membrane contains a variable quantity of adipose tissue. This tissue is found also in various parts of the viscera—as the Fig-. XII.—Adipose tissue, a, starlike appearance, from crystallisation of fatty acids, High power. mesentery, the surface of the heart, &c.—and fat enters largely into the formation of the marrow of the bones. There is, however, a difference * On this subject reference may he made to v. Recklingshausen, in Virchow's Archiv, Bd. xxviii.^ and Rollett, in Strieker's Human and Comparative Histology, translated by Power, chap, ii., where the reader will find references to Strieker, Oohnheim, Kiihne, and others.