lxxii GENEEAL ANATOMY. former subserving' the higher functions of volition, sensation, &c., the latter those of growth and nutrition. It is clear that the former qualities reside mainly in the cerebro-spinal system, while the intimate connection between the sympathetic nerve and the great viscera renders it highly probable that the sympathetic system has mainly to do with the organic functions. Consequently, the cerebro-spinal system was designated the system of animal life, and the sympathetic the system of organic life. But the distinction, though true to a certain extent, is by no means complete, as the student may easily see by consulting the works of modern physiologists. The grey or vesicular nervous substance is distinguished by its dark reddish-grey colour and soft consistence. It is found in the brain, spinal cord, and various ganglia, intermingled with the fibrous nervous sub- Fig-. XXXVI.—Human nerve-tubes, magnified 350 times. Three of them are fine, one of which is varicose, one of middling thickness, and with a simple contour; and three thick, two of which are double con- toured, and one with grimious contents. Fig. XXXVII.—a, nerve-tube of the common eel in water. The delicate line on its exterior indicates the tubular membrane. The dark doubled-edged inner one is the white substance of Schwann, slightly wrinkled, b, the same in ether. Several oil-globules have coalesced in the interior, and others have accumulated around the exterior of the tube. The white substance has in part disappeared. Magnified 300 diameters. stance, but is never found in the nerves. It is composed, as its name implies, of vesicles, or corpuscles, commonly called nerve- or ganglion- corpuscles, containing nuclei and nucleoli; the vesicles being embedded either in a finely granular substance, as in the brain, or in a capsule of nucleated cells, as in the ganglia. Each vesicle consists of an exceedingly delicate membranous wall, enclosing a finely granular material, part of which is occasionally of a coarser kind, and of a reddish or yellowish- brown colour. The nucleus is vesicular, much smaller than the vesicle, and adherent to some part of its interior. The nucleolus, which is enclosed within the nucleus, is vesicular in form, of minute size, and peculiarly clear and brilliant. The nerve-corpuscles vary in shape and size; some are small, spherical, or ovoidal, with an uninterrupted outline. These forms are most numerous in the ganglia of the sympathetic. Others, called caudate or stellate nerve-corpuscles, are characterised by their larger size,