484 NERVOUS SYSTEM. Immediately behind the diverging optic tracts, and between them and the pedun- cles of the cerebrum {crura cerebri) is a lozenge-shaped interval, the interpeduncular space, in which are found the following parts, arranged in the following order from before backwards : the tuber cinereum, infundibulum, pituitary body, corpora albi- cantia, and the posterior perforated space. The tuber cinereum is an eminence of grey matter, situated between the optic tract and the corpora albicantia; it is connected with the surrounding parts of the cerebrum, forms part of the floor of the third ventricle, and is continuous with the grey substance in that cavity. From the middle of its under surface a conical tubular process of grey matter, about two lines in length, is continuous downwards and forwards to be attached to the posterior lobe of the pituitary body; this is the infundibulum. Its canal, which is funnel-shaped, communicates with the third ventricle. The pituitary body is a small reddish-grey vascular mass, weighing from five to ten grains, and of an oval form, situated in the sella Turcica, in connection with which it is retained by the dura mater forming the inner wall of the cavernous sinus. It is very vascular, and consists of two lobes, separated from one another by a fibrous lamina. Of these, the anterior is the larger, of an oblong form, and somewhat concave behind, where it receives the posterior lobe, which is round. The anterior lobe consists externally of a firm yellowish-grey substance, and internally of a soft pulpy substance of a yellowish-white colour. The posterior lobe is darker than the anterior. In the foetus it is larger proportionally than in the adult, and contains a cavity which communicates through the infundibulum with the third ventricle. In the adult it is firmer and more solid, and seldom con- tains any cavity. Its structure, especially the anterior lobe, is similar to that of the ductless glands. The corpora albicantia are two small round white masses, each about the size of a pea, placed side by side immediately behind the tuber cinereum. They are formed by the anterior crura of the fornix, hence called the bulbs of the fornix, which, after descending to the base of the brain, are folded upon themselves, before passing upwards to the thalami optici. They are composed externally of white substance, and internally of grey matter ; the grey matter of the two being connected by a transverse commissure of the same material. At an early period of foetal life they are blended together into one large mass, but become separated about the seventh month. The posterior perforated space (pons Tarini) corresponds to a whitish-grey sub- stance, placed between the corpora albicantia in front, the pons Varolii behind, and the crura cerebri on either side. It forms the back part of the floor of the third ven- tricle, and is perforated by numerous small orifices for the passage of blood-vessels to the thalami optici. The crura cerebri (peduncles of the cerebrum) are two thick cylindrical bundles of white matter, which emerge from the anterior border of the pons, and diverge as they pass forwards and outwards to enter the under part of either hemisphere. Each crus is about three-quarters of an inch in length, and somewhat broader in front than behind. They are marked upon their surface with longitudinal striae, and each is crossed, just before entering the hemisphere, by a flattened white band, the optic tract, which is adherent by its upper border to the peduncle. In the interior of the crura is contained a mass of dark grey matter, called locus niger. The third nerves may be seen emerging from the inner side of either crus, and the fourth nerve winding round its outer side from above. Each crus consists of a superficial and deep layer of longitudinal white fibres, continued upwards from the pons : these layers are separated from each other by the locus niger. The superficial longitudinal fibres are continued upwards, from the anterior pyramids to the cerebrum. They consist of coarse fasciculi, which form the free part of the crus, and have received the name of the fasciculated portion or crusta of the peduncle.