NERVOUS TISSUE. lxxiii and from having one or more tail-like processes issuing from them, which occasionally divide and subdivide into numerous branches. These pro- cesses are very delicate, apparently tubular, and contain a similar granular material to that found, within the corpuscle. Some of the processes terminate in fine transparent fibres, which become lost among the other elements of the nervous tissue ; others may be traced until, after losing their granular appearance, they become continuous with an ordinary nerve-fibre. The white, otherwise called tubular or fibrous nervous substance, is found constituting a great part of the brain and. spinal cord, almost the whole of the cerebro-spinal nerves, and a great part of the sympathetic. The tubes, when perfectly fresh, appear to be homogeneous; but they soon separate into two parts, the ivhite substance of Schwann and the axis-cylinder of Purkinje, the whole being enclosed, in a membrane—the tubular membrane* or neurilemma,^ which at first appears structureless, but, Fig". XXXVIIL-—Transverse section through a microscopic nerve, representing a compound nerve-bundle, surrounded by perineurium. Magnified 120 diameters, p, Perineurium, con- sisting of laminae of fibrous connective tissues, alternating with flattened nucleated connec- tive tissue cells. /. Lymph space between perineurium and surface of nerve-bundle. The medullated fibres are seen as circles with a central dot, viz. medullary sheath and axis-cylinder, in transverse section. They are embedded in endoneurium, containing numerous nuclei, which belong to the connective tissue-cells of the latter. (Klein and Noble Smith.) when stained with nitrate of silver, is seen to consist of nucleated endothelial cells. The white substance is regarded as being a fatty matter in a fluid state, which isolates and protects the essential part of the nerve—the axis-cylinder. The partial coagulation of this white sub- stance which follows on cooling gives the nerve-tube, when examined after death, a double contour—the darker part seen on the outside of the axis-cylinder being the white substance of Schwann. In consequence of the extreme delicacy of the tubular membrane, even slight pressure will * Dr. Beale describes and figures cases in which several fibres, some with, others without, the white substance, are enclosed in a common tubular membrane. See Phil. Trans., 1862. t In older histological works, the term ' neurilemma' is used to designate the fibrous envelope of the whole nerve, now called ' perineurium.'