MUSCULAR TISSUE. Ixv MUSCULAR TISSUE. Fig*. XXVI.—Transverse section from the sterno-mastoid in man, 50 times magnified, a, external perimysium, b, in- ternal perimysium, c, primi- tive and secondary fasciculi. The muscles are formed of bundles of reddish fibres, endowed with the property of contractility. Two kinds of muscular tissue are found in the animal body, viz. that of voluntary or animal life, and that of involuntary or organic life. The muscles of animal life (striped muscles) are capable of being put in action and con- trolled by the will. They are composed of bundles of fibres enclosed in a delicate web of areolar tissue, called in the figure the £ perimysium.' Each bundle consists of numerous smaller bundles, and these again of primitive fasciculi. The fibrous connective tissue separating the fasciculi from each other, which is derived from and continuous with the perimysium, is called the endomysium. Fat-cells are sometimes intermixed writh this connective tissue. The fibres are of no great length—not extending, it is said, further than an inch and a half. They end either by blending with the tendon or aponeurosis, or else by becoming drawn out into a tapering extremity which is connected to the neighbouring fibre by means of the sarcolemma. The precise mode in which the muscular fibre joins the tendon has been variously described by different observers. It may, perhaps, be sufficient here to say that the sarcolemma, or membranous investment of the muscular fibre, appears to become blended with the tissue of the tendon, and that the muscular fibre appears to be prolonged more or less into the tendon, so that the latter forms a kind of sheath around the fibre for a longer or shorter distance. When muscular fibres are attached to the skin or mucous membranes, their fibres are described by Hyde Salter as becoming continuous with those of the areolar tissue- The primitive fasciculi consist of a number of filaments, enclosed in a tubular sheath of transparent, elastic, and apparently homogeneous mem- brane, named by Bowman the ' Sarcolemma.' On the internal surface of the sarcolemma, in mammalia, and also in the substance of the fibrillar in lower animals, elongated nuclei are seen (see figs. LI., LIL), and in con- nection with these nuclei a row of granules, apparently fatty, is sometimes observed. The primitive fasciculi are cylindriform or prismatic. Their breadth varies in man fron ^-i^ to ^-J-q of an inch, the average of the majority being about ; their length is not always in proportion to the length of the muscle, but depends on the arrangement of the tendons. This form of muscular fibre is especially characterised by being apparently marked with very fine dark lines or strim, which pass transversely round the fibre, in curved or wavy parallel directions, from yyL^ to 12l00 of an inch apart. Other striae pass longitudinally over the fibres, indicating d