THE GLOTTIS. 683 of the epiglottis and the apex of the arytenoid cartilages : these are the aryteno- epiglottidean folds, on the margins of which the cuneiform cartilages form a more or less distinct whitish prominence. The cavity of the larynx extends from the aperture behind the epiglottis to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. It is divided into two parts by the projection inwards of the vocal cords, and the Thyro-arytenoid muscles; between the two cords is a long and narrow triangular fissure or chink, the glottis, or rima glottidis. The portion of the cavity of the larynx above the glottis is broad and triangular in shape above, and corresponds to the interval between the alse of the thyroid cartilage ; the portion below the glottis is at first of an elliptical, and lower down of a circular form. The glottis [rima glottidis) is the interval between the inferior or true vocal cords. The two superior or false vocal cords are placed above the latter, and are formed almost entirely by a folding inwards of the mucous membrane ; whilst the two inferior or true vocal cords are thick, strong, and formed partly by mucous mem- brane, and partly by ligamentous fibres. Between the true and false vocal cords, on each side, is an oval depression, the sinus, or ventricle of the larynx, which leads upwards, on the outer side of the superior vocal cord, into a csecal pouch of variable size, the sacculus laryngis. The rima glottidis is the narrow fissure or chink between the inferior or true vocal cords. It is the narrowest part of the cavity of the larynx, and corresponds to the lower level of the arytenoid 384.—Vertical Section of the Larynx and cartilages. Its length, in the male, measures rather less than an inch, its breadth, when dilated, varying .at its widest part from a third to half an inch. In the female, these measurements are less by two or three lines. The form of the glottis varies. In its half-closed condition it is a narrow fissure, a little enlarged and rounded behind. In quiet breathing it is widely open, somewhat triangular, the base of the triangle directed backwards, and corresponding to the space between the separated ary- tenoid car tilages. In forcible expiration it is smaller than during inspiration. When sound is produced, it is more narrowed, the margins of the arytenoid cartilages being brought into contact, and the edges of the vocal cords ap- proximated and made parallel, the degree of approximation and tension corresponding to the height of the note produced.* The superior or false vocal cords, so called because they are not directly concerned in the production of the voice, are two folds of mucous membrane, enclosing a delicate narrow fibrous band, the superior thyro-arytenoid ligament. This ligament consists of a thin band of elastic tissue, attached in front to the angle of the thyroid cartilage below the epi- glottis, and behind to the anterior surface of the arytenoid cartilage. The lower * On the 9hape of the glottis, in the various conditions of breathing and speaking, see 1 Czermak on the Laryngoscope,' translated for the Neiv Sydenham Society. Upper Part of the Trachea.