ARTERIES. 420 Course. The artery occasionally deviates in its course towards the fibular side of the leg, regaining its usual position beneath the annular ligament at the front of the ankle. In two instances, the vessel has been found to approach the surface in the middle of the leg, being covered merely by the integument and fascia below that point. Surgical Anatomy. The anterior tibial artery may be tied in the upper or lower part of the leg. In the upper part, the operation is attended with great difficulty, on account of the depth of the vessel from the surface. An incision, about four inches in length, should be made through the integument, midway between the spine of the tibia and the outer margin of the fibula, the fascia and intermuscular septum between the Tibialis anticus and Extensor longus digitorum being divided to the same extent. The foot must be flexed to relax these muscles, and they must be separated from each other by the finger. The artery is then exposed, deeply seated, lying upon the interosseous membrane, the nerve lying externally, and one of the venae comites on either side ; these must be separated from the artery before the aneurism needle is passed round it. To tie the vessel in the lower third of the leg above the ankle-joint, an incision about three inches in length should be made through the integument between the tendons of the tibialis anticus and Extensor proprius pollicis muscles, the deep fascia being divided to the same extent; the tendon on either side should be held aside, when the vessel will be seen lying upon the tibia, with the nerve superficial to it, and one of the venae comites on either side. In order to secure the artery over the instep, an incision should be made on the fibular side of the tendon of the Extensor proprius pollicis, between it and the innermost tendon of the long Extensor; the deep fascia having been divided, the artery will be exposed, the nerve lying either superficial to it, or to its outer side. The branches of the anterior tibial artery are, the Recurrent tibial. Internal malleolar. Muscular. External malleolar. The recurrent branch arises from the anterior tibial, as soon as that vessel has passed through, the interosseous space; it ascends in the Tibialis anticus muscle, and ramifies on the front and sides of the knee-joint, anastomosing with the articu- lar branches of the popliteal, and with the anastomotica magna. The muscular branches are numerous; they are distributed to the muscles which lie on either side of the vessel, some piercing the deep fascia to supply the integu- ment, others passing through the interosseous membrane, and anastomosing with branches of the posterior tibial and peroneal arteries. The malleolar arteries supply the ankle-joint. The internal arises about two inches above the articulation, and passes beneath the tendon of the Tibialis anticus to the inner ankle, upon which it ramifies, anastomosing with branches of the posterior tibial and internal plantar arteries and with the internal calcanean from the posterior tibial. The external passes beneath the tendons of the Extensor longus digitorum and Extensor proprius pollicis, and supplies the outer ankle, anastomosing with the anterior peroneal artery, and with ascending branches from the tarsal branch of the dorsalis pedis. Dorsalis Pedis Artery. (Fig. 237.) The dorsalis pedis, the continuation of the anterior tibial, passes forwards from the bend of the ankle along the tibial side of the foot to the back part of the first interosseous space, where it divides into two branches, the dorsalis hallucis and com- municating. Relations. This vessel, in its course forwards, rests upon the astragalus, sca- phoid, and internal cuneiform bones and the ligaments connecting them, being covered by the integument and fascia, and crossed near its termination by the inner- most tendon of the Extensor brevis digitorum. On its tibial side is the tendon of the Extensor proprius pollicis; on its fibular side, the innermost tendon of the Ex- tensor longus digitorum, and the termination of the anterior tibial nerve. It is accompanied by two veins.