THE SKELETON. J34 ri2.—Plan of the Development of the Fibula. ' By Three Centres. Apy™ ahout I+Z'ty.Z-, YVm Us about 26 f<' •< the lower third, where it is continuous with the posterior border of the external malleolus. This surface is completely occupied by the Peroneus longus and brevis muscles. The antero-internal surface is the interval included between the interosseous ridge and the oblique line. It is directed inwards, and is grooved for the attachment of the Tibialis posticus muscle. The postero-internal surface is the space included between the oblique line and the posterior border; it is continuous below with the rough triangular surface above the articular facet of the outer malleolus; it is directed backwards above, backwards and inwards at its middle, directly inwards below. Its upper third is rough, for the attachment of the Soleus muscle; its lower part presents a triangular rough surface, connected to the tibia by a strong interosseous ligament, and between these two points the entire surface is covered by the fibres of origin of the Flexor longus pollicis muscle. At about the middle of this surface is the nutrient foramen, which is directed downwards. In order to distinguish the side to which the bone belongs, hold it with the lower extremity downwards, and the broad groove for the Peronei tendons backwards, to- wards the holder: the triangular subcutaneous surface will then be directed to the side to which the bone belongs. Articulations. With two bones : the tibia and astragalus. Development. By three centres (fig. 112): one for the shaft, and one for each extremity. Ossification commences in the shaft about the sixth week of fcetal life, a little later than in the tibia, and extends gradually towards the ex- tremities. At birth both ends are cartilaginous. Ossification commences in the lower end in the second year, and in the upper one about the fourth year. The lower epiphysis, the first in which ossification commences, becomes united to the shaft first, contrary to the law which appears to prevail with regard to the junction of epiphyses with diaphyses: this takes place about the twentieth year; the upper epiphysis is joined about the twenty-fifth year.* Attachment of Muscles. To the head, the Biceps, Soleus, and Peroneus longus : to the shaft, its anterior surface, the Extensor longus digitorum, Peroneus tertius, and Extensor proprius pollicis; to the internal surface, the Soleus, Tibialis posticus, and Flexor longus pollicis : to the external surface, the Peroneus longus and brevis. Ap/iears ,it 2 >¥ -Unites aloutZO^y- THE FOOT. (Figs. 113, 114.) The skeleton of the Foot consists of three divisions : the Tarsus Metatarsus, and Phalanges. The Tarsus. The bones of the Tarsus are seven in number: viz., the calcaneum, or os calcis, astragalus, cuboid, scaphoid, internal, middle, and external cuneiform bones. * It will be observed that in the fibula, as in other long bones, the epiphysis towards which the nutrient artery is directed is the one first joined to the shaft.