582 ORGANS OF SENSE. to this is the ciliary ligament, by which it is connected to the sclerotic and cornea; its inner edge forms the margin of the pupil, its surfaces are flattened, and look for- wards and backwards, the anterior surface towards the cornea, the posterior towards the ciliary processes and lens. The circumference of the iris is connected to the cornea by a reticular structure denominated the ligamentum pectinatum iridis. This is a modification of the membrane of Descemet, with which it is continuous. Its fibres cross the outer part of the anterior chamber, forming a kind of canal (the canal of Fontana) which is occupied by the reticulating fibres of the ligament. The anterior surface of the iris is variously coloured in different individuals, and marked by lines which converge towards the pupil. The posterior surface is of a deep purple tint, from being covered by dark pigment; it is hence named uvea from its resemblance in colour to a ripe grape. Structure. The iris is composed of a fibrous stroma, muscular fibres, and pigment-cells. The fibrous stroma consists of fine, delicate bundles of fibrous tissue, which have a circular direction at the circumference; but the chief mass radiate towards the pupil. They form, by their interlacement, a delicate mesh, in which the pigment- cells, vessels, and nerves are contained. The muscular fibre is involuntary, and consists of circular and radiating fibres. The circular fibres (sphincter of the pupil) surround the margin of the pupil on the posterior surface of the iris, like a sphincter, forming a narrow band, about one-thirtieth of an inch in width; those near the free margin being closely aggregated; those more external somewhat separated, and forming less complete circles. The radiating fibres (dilator of the pupil) converge from the circum- ference towards the centre, and blend with the circular fibres near the margin of the pupil. The pigment-cells are found in the stroma of the iris, and also as a distinct layer on its anterior and posterior surfaces. In the stroma, the cells are ramified, and contain yellow or brown pigment, according to the colour of the eye. On the front of the iris, there is a single layer of oval or rounded cells, with branching offsets. On the back of the iris, there are several layers of small round cells, filled with dark pigment. This layer is continuous with the pigmentary covering of the ciliary processes. The arteries of the iris are derived from the long and anterior ciliary, and from the vessels of the ciliary processes. Membrana pupillaris. In the foetus, the pupil is closed by a delicate, trans- parent, vascular membrane, the membrana pupillaris, which divides the space in which the iris is suspended into two distinct chambers. This membrane contains numerous minute vessels continued from the margin of the iris to those on the front part of the capsule of the lens. These vessels have a looped arrangement, converg- ing towards each other without anastomosing. Between the seventh and eighth month the membrane begins to disappear, by its gradual absorption from the centre towards the circumference, and at birth only a few fragments remain. It is said sometimes to remain permanent and produce blindness. The Ciliary ligament is a narrow ring of circular fibres, about one-fortieth of an inch thick, and of a whitish colour: it serves to connect the external and middle tunics of the eye. It is placed around the circumference of the iris, at its point of connection with the external layer of the choroid, the cornea, and sclerotic. Its component fibres are delicate, and resemble those of elastic tissue. At its point of connection with the sclerotic a minute canal is situated between the two, called the sinus circularis iridis. The Ciliary muscle (Bowman) consists of unstriped fibres : it forms a greyish, semitransparent, circular band, about one-eighth of an inch broad, on the outer surface of the fore part of the choroid. It is thickest in front, and gradually becomes thinner behind. Its fibres are soft, of a yellowish-white colour, longitu- dinal in direction, and arise at the- point of junction of the cornea and sclerotic. Passing backwards, they are attached to the choroid, in front of the retina, and