203 OF THE PHALANGES. cuneiform by a single broad, thin, fibrous band ; the second has three dorsal ligaments, one from each cuneiform bone; the third has one from the external cuneiform; and the fourth and fifth have one each from the cuboid. The Plantar Ligaments consist of longitudinal and oblique fibrous bands con- necting the tarsal and metatarsal bones, but disposed with less regularity than on the dorsal surface. Those for the first and second metatarsal are the most strongly marked; the second and third metatarsal receive strong fibrous bands, which pass obliquely across from the internal cuneiform; the plantar ligaments of the fourth and fifth metatarsal consist of a few scanty fibres derived from the cuboid. The Interosseous Ligaments are three in number : internal, middle, and external. The internal one passes from the outer extremity of the internal cuneiform to the adjacent angle of the second metatarsal. The middle one, less strong than the preceding, connects the external cuneiform with the adjacent angle of the second metatarsal. The external interosseous ligament connects the outer angle of the external cuneiform with the adjacent side of the third metatarsal. The Synovial Membranes of these articulations are three in number : one for the metatarsal bone of the great toe, with the internal cuneiform ; one for the second and third metatarsal bones, with the middle and external cuneiform ; this is a part of the great tarsal synovial membrane ; and one for the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones with the cuboid. The synovial membranes of the tarsus and metatarsus are thus seen to be six in number (fig. 148). Articulations of the Metatarsal Bones with each other. The bases of the metatarsal bones, except the first, are connected together by dorsal, plantar, and interosseous ligaments. The dorsal and plantar ligaments pass from one metatarsal bone to another. The interosseous ligaments lie deeply between the rough non-articular portions of their lateral surfaces. The articular surfaces are covered with cartilage, and provided with synovial membrane, con- tinued forwards from the tarso-metatorsal joints. The digital extremities of the metatarsal bones are united by the transverse metatarsal ligament. It connects the great toe with the rest of the metatarsal bones ; in this respect it differs from the transverse ligament in the hand. Actions. The movement permitted in the tarsal ends of the metatarsal bones is limited to a slight gliding of the articular surfaces upon one another; considerable motion, however, takes place in the digital extremities. VII. Metatarsophalangeal Articulations. The heads of the metatarsal bones are connected with the concave articular surfaces of the first phalanges by the following ligaments :— Plantar. Two Lateral. Their arrangement is precisely similar to the corresponding parts in the hand. The expansion of the Extensor tendon supplies the place of a dorsal ligament. Actions. The movements permitted in the metatarso-phalangeal articulations are flexion, extension, abduction, and adduction. VIII. Articulations of the Phalanges. The ligaments of these articulations are similar to those found in the hand ; each pair of phalanges being connected by a plantar and two lateral ligaments, and their articular surfaces lined by synovial membrane. Their actions are also similar.