SPINAL NERVES. 534 The communicating branch with the phrenic is derived from the fifth cervical nerve or from the loop between the fifth and sixth ; it joins the phrenic on the Anterior scalenus muscle. The muscular branches supply the Longus colli, Scaleni, Rhomboidei, and Sub- clavius muscles. Those for the Scaleni and Longus colli arise from the lower cervical nerves at their exit from the intervertebral foramina. The rhomboid branch arises from the fifth cervical, pierces the Scalenus medius, and passes beneath the Levator anguli scapulae, which it occasionally supplies, to the Rhomboid muscles. The nerve to the Subclavius is a small filament, which arises from the trunk formed by the junction of the fifth and sixth cervical nerves ; it descends in front of the subclavian artery to the Subclavius muscle, and is usually connected by a filament with the phrenic nerve. The posterior thoracic nerve (long thoracic, external respiratory of Bell) (fig. 291), supplies the Serratus magnus, and is remarkable for the length of its course. It arises by two roots, from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves immediately after their exit from the intervertebral foramina. These unite in the substance of the Middle scalenus muscle, and, after emerging from it, the nerve passes down behind the brachial plexus and the axillary vessels, resting on the outer surface of the Serratus magnus. It extends along the side of the chest to the lower border of that muscle, and supplies it with numerous filaments. The suprascapular nerve (fig. 292) arises from the cord formed by the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical nerves; passing obliquely outwards beneath the Trapezius, it enters the supraspinous fossa, through the notch in the upper border of the scapula; and, passing beneath the Supraspinatus muscle, curves in front of the spine of the scapula to the infraspinous fossa. In the supraspinous fossa, it gives off two branches to the Supraspinatus muscle, and an articular filament to the shoulder- joint ; and in the infraspinous fossa, it gives off two branches to the Infraspinatus musc!e, besides some filaments to the shoulder-joint and scapula. Branches below the Clavicle. To the chest . . . Anterior thoracic. To the shoulder . . . . { Subscapular. I Circumflex. f Musculo-cutaneous. I Internal cutaneous. To the arm, fore-arm, and hand <| Lesser internal cutaneous. I Median. ' Ulnar. ^- Musculo-spiral. The branches given off below the clavicle, are derived from the three cords of the brachial plexus, in the following manner : — From the outer cord, arises the external of the two anterior thoracic nerves, the musculo-cutaneous nerve, and the outer head of the median. From the inner cord, arises the internal of the two anterior thoracic nerves, the internal cutaneous, the lesser internal cutaneous (nerve of Wrisberg), the ulnar and inner head of the median. From the posterior cord, arise the three subscapular nerves \ and the cord then divides into the musculo-spiral and circumflex nerves. The Anterior Thoracic Nerves (fig. 291) two in number, supply the Pectoral muscles. The external, or superficial branch, the larger of the two, arises from the outer cord of the brachial plexus, passes inwards, across the axillary artery and vein, and is distributed to the under surface of the Pectoralis major. It sends down a commu- nicating filament to join the internal branch. The internal, or deep branch, arises from the inner cord, and passes upwards between the axillary artery and vein (sometimes perforates the vein), and joins with the filament from the superficial branch. From the loop thus formed, branches are distributed to the under surface of the Pectoralis minor and major muscles.