SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE PERINEUM. 764 the surface of the crus, and from the adjacent portion of the ramus of the pubes. From these points, fleshy fibres succeed, which end in an aponeurosis which is inserted into the side and under surface of the crus penis. This muscle compresses the crus penis, and thus serves to maintain the organ erect. The Transversus Perincei is a narrow muscular slip, which passes more or less transversely across the back part of the perinseal space. It arises by a small tendon from the inner and fore side of the tuberosity of the ischium, and, passing obliquely 433.—The Superficial Muscles and Vessels of the Perinseum. forwards and inwards, is inserted into the central tendinous point of the perinseum, joining in this situation with the muscle of the opposite side, the Sphincter ani behind, and the Accelerator urinas in front Between the muscles just examined a triangular space exists, bounded internally by the Accelerator urinse, externally by the Erector penis, and behind by the Trans- versus perinsei. The floor of this space is formed by the triangular ligament of the urethra (deep perineal fascia), and, running from behind forwards in it are the superficial perinseal vessels and nerves, the transverse perineal artery coursing along the posterior boundary of the space, on the Transversus perinsei muscle. In the lateral operation of lithotomy, the knife is carried obliquely across the back part of this space, downwards and outwards, into the ischio-rectal fossa, dividing the Transversus perinsei muscle and artery, the posterior fibres of the Accelerator urines, the superficial perinseal vessels and nerve, and more posteriorly the external hemorrhoidal vessels. The superficial and transverse perinseal arteries are described at p. 405 ; and the superficial perinseal and inferior pudendal nerves at pp. 553, 555. The muscles of the perinseum in the female are, the Sphincter vaginse. Compressor urethras. Erector clitoridis. Sphincter ani. Transversus perinsei. Levator ani. Coccygeus. The Sphincter Vagince surrounds the orifice of the vagina, and is analogous to the Accelerator urinse in the male. It is attached, posteriorly, to the central tendon of