6 7, 2 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. The Stomach. The Stomach is the principal organ of digestion. It is the most dilated part of the alimentary canal, serving for the solution and reduction of the food, which constitutes the process of chymification. It is situated in the left hypochondriac, the epigastric, and part of the right hypochondriac regions. Its form is irregularly conical, curved upon itself, and presenting a rounded base, turned to the left side. It is placed immediately behind the anterior wall of the abdomen, above the trans- verse colon, below the liver and the Diaphragm. Its size varies considerably in different subjects, and also according to its state of distension. When moderately full, its transverse diameter is about twelve inches, its vertical diameter about four. Its weight, according to Clendenning, is about four ounces and a half. It presents for examination two extremities, two orifices, two borders, and two surfaces. Its left extremity is called the greater, or splenic end. This is the largest part of the stomach, and extends two or three inches to the left of the point of entrance of the oesophagus. This expanded part is called the great cul-de-sac, or fundus. It lies behind the lower ribs, in contact with the spleen, to which it is connected by the gastro-splenic omentum. The lesser, or pyloric end is much smaller than the fundus, and situated on a plane anterior and inferior to it. It lies in contact with the wall of the abdomen, the under suface of the liver, and the neck of the gall-badder. The oesophageal or cardiac orifice communicates with the oesophagus; it is the highest part of the stomach, and somewhat funnel-shaped. The pyloric orifice communicates with the duodenum, the aperture being guarded by a kind of valve—the pylorus. The lesser curvature extends between the oesophageal and pyloric orifices, along the upper border of the organ, and is connected to the under surface of the liver by the lesser omentum. The greater curvature extends between the same two points, along the lower border, and gives attachment to the great omentum. The surfaces of the organ are limited by these two curvatures. The anterior surface is directed upwards and forwards, and is in relation with the Diaphragm, the under surface of the left lobe of the liver, and with the abdominal parietes, in the epigastric region. The posterior surface is directed downwards and backwards, and is in relation with the pancreas and great vessels of the abdomen, the crura of the Diaphragm, and the solar plexus. The Stomach is held in position by the lesser omentum, which extends from the transverse fissure of the liver to its lesser curvature, and by a fold of peritoneum, which passes from the Diaphragm on to the oesophageal end of the stomach, the gastro-phrenic ligament : this constitutes the most fixed point of the stomach, whilst the pyloric end and greater curvature are the most moveable parts ; hence when the stomach becomes greatly distended, the greater curvature is directed forwards, whilst the anterior and posterior surfaces are directed, the former upwards, and the latter downwards. Alterations in Position.—There is no organ in the body the position and connections of which present such frequent alterations as the stomach. During inspiration, it is displaced downwards by the descent of the Diaphragm, and elevated by the pressure of the abdominal muscles during expiration. Its position in relation to the surrounding viscera is also changed, according to the empty or distended state of the organ. When empty, it occupies only a small part of the left hypochondriac region, the spleen lying behind it; the left lobe of the liver covers it in front, and the under surface of the heart rests upon it above, and in front; being separated from it hy the left lobe of the liver, besides the diaphragm and pericardium. This close relation between the stomach and the heart explains the fact that, in gastralgia, the pain is generally referred to the heart, and is often accompanied hy palpitation and inter- mission of the pulse. When the stomach is distended the Diaphragm is forced upwards, con- tracting the cavity of the chest; hence the dyspnoea complained of, from inspiration being