cxxxii GENERAL ANATOMY. finally the true skin below the epiblast and the coriura of the mucous membrane below the hypoblast. Fig-. LXXXIV.—Cervical part of the primitive vertebral column and adjacent parts of an embryo of the sixth day, showing* the division of the primitive vertebral segments (from Kolliker, after Eemak). I, i, chorda dorsalis in its sheath, pointed at its upper end; 2, points by three lines to the original intervals of the primitive1 vertebrae ; 3 in a similar manner indicates the places of new division into permanent bodies of vertebra ; c indicates the body of the first cervical vertebra ; in this and the next the primitive division has dis- appeared, as also in the two lowest represented, viz., d and the one above; in those inter- mediate the line of division is shown ; 4, points in three places to the vertebral arches; and 5, similarly to three commencing ganglia of the spinal nerves ; the dotted segments outside these parts are the muscular plates. The mesoblastic elements (protovertebrae) on either side grow towards each other and coalesce, surrounding the notochord and the epiblastic elements ont of which the medullary canal has been developed (fig. LXXXIII. mc). From this portion of the somatomes the laminae of the vertebra?, the muscles and other parts in the vertebral grooves, and the skin of the back are formed. Development of the cranium in general, and of the faxe.—The foetal cranium is developed from the primitive vertebral discs surrounding the upper extremity of the chorda dorsalis. These advance in the form of a mem- branous capsule (6 investing massJ of Rathke) which covers the end of the chorda dorsalis, forming the rudiment of the base of the skull, and moulds itself on the cerebral vesicles, so as to constitute the membrane in which the vault of the skull is developed. The membranous capsule presents at the base of th e skull two thickenings (' lateral trabecule? of Rathke) directed forwards, and enclosing an opening (pituitary opening) which is partly closed by a thinner membrane—the middle trabecula. The upper end of the chorda dorsalis terminates in a pointed extremity (fig. LXXXIV.), which extends about as far forwards as the body of the sphenoid bone, where it becomes lost near the situation of the pituitary body. The membrane becomes replaced by cartilage in the part corresponding to the base of the skull and the trabecular A portion of this primitive cartilaginous cranium becomes atrophied and disappears, a portion persists—forming the carti- lages of the nose and those of the articulations ; the rest forms the carti- laginous nidus of the basilar part of the occipital, the greater part of the