o6 THE SKELETON". with the pisiform; and is rough externally, for ligamentous attachment. The external surface, the base of the pyramid, is marked by a flat, quadrilateral, smooth facet, for articulation with the semilunar. The internal surface, the summit of the pyramid, is pointed and roughened, for the attachment of the internal lateral ligament of the wrist. Lay it with the surface on which the pisiform facet is upwards, and the con- cavo-convex surface for the unciform in front. The base of the wedge (i.e., the broad end of the bone) will be on the side to which it belongs. Articulations. With three bones : the semilunar externally, the pisiform in front, the unciform below, and with the triangular interarticular fibro-cartilage which separates it from the lower end of the ulna. The Pisiform bone may be known by its small size, and by its presenting a single articular facet. It is situated at the anterior and inner side of the carpus, is nearly circular in form, and presents on its posterior surface a smooth oval facet, for articulation with the cuneiform bone. This facet approaches the superior, but not the inferior, border of the bone. The anterior or palmar surface is rounded and rough, and gives attachment to the anterior annular ligament. The outer and inner surfaces are also rough, the former being convex, the latter usually concave. Lay it with the articular facet on the table, and the non-articular part of the same surface in front. The concave (inner) surface is then on the side to which the bone does not belong, i.e., on the ulnar side. Articulation. With one bone, the cuneiform. Attachment of Muscles. To two; the Flexor carpi ulnaris, and Abductor minimi digiti; and to the anterior annular ligament. Bones of the Lower How. (Figs. 94, 95.) The Trapezium is of very irregular form. It may be distinguished by a deep groove, for the tendon of the Flexor carpi radialis muscle. It is situated at the external and inferior part of the carpus, between the scaphoid and first meta- carpal bone. The superior surface, concave and smooth, is directed upwards and inwards, and articulates with the scaphoid. The inferior surface, directed down- wards and outwards, is oval, concave from side to side, convex from before back- wards, so as to form a saddle-shaped surface, for articulation with the base of the first metacarpal bone. The anterior or palmar surface is narrow and rough. At its upper part is a deep groove, running from above obliquely downwards and inwards; it transmits the tendon of the Flexor carpi radialis, and is bounded externally by a prominent ridge, the oblique ridge of the trapezium. This surface gives attachment to the Abductor pollicis, Flexor ossis metacarpi, and Flexor brevis pollicis muscles; and the anterior annular ligament. The posterior or dorsal surface is rough, and the external surface also broad and rough, for the attachment of ligaments. The internal surface presents two articular facets : the upper one, large and concave, articulates with the trapezoid; the lower one, narrow and flattened, with the base of the second metacarpal bone. Lay it with its prominent ridge* upwards and towards yourself. The saddle- shaped surface for the thumb is on the side to which the bone belongs. Articulations. With four bones : the scaphoid above, the trapezoid and second metacarpal bones internally, the first metacarpal below. Attachment of Muscles. Abductor pollicis, Flexor ossis metacarpi, and part of the Flexor brevis pollicis. The Trapezoid is the smallest bone in the second row. It may be known by its wedge-shaped form, the broad end of the wedge forming the dorsal, the narrow end the palmar surface; and by its having four articular surfaces touching each other, and separated by sharp edges. The superior surface, quadrilateral in form, smooth and slightly concave, articulates with the scaphoid. The inferior surface * This prominent ridge is between the deep groove for the tendon of the Flexor carpi radialis and the wow-articular surface.