640 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. are much smaller and with a spherical nucleus. Transitional forms, however, of all kinds are met with between the lymph corpuscles and the cells of the villus. All these points are illustrated by the accompanying diagram by Dr. Watney (fig. 350) for which I have to express my best thanks to him, and a comparison with fig. 351 will show the chief points in which the new differs from the old description. The simple follicles, or crypts of Lieberkiihn, are found in considerable numbers over every part of the mucous membrane of the small intestine. They consist of minute tubular depressions of the mucous membrane, arranged perpendicularly to the surface, upon which they open by small circular apertures. They may be seen with the aid of a lens, their orifices appearing as minute dots, scattered between the villi. Their walls are thin, consisting of a layer of basement membrane, lined by cylindrical epithelium, and covered on their exterior by capillary vessels. Their contents vary, even in health, and the purpose served by their secretion is still very doubtful. The duodenal, or Brunner's glands, are limited to the duodenum and commence- ment of the jejunum. They are small, flattened, granular bodies, embedded in the submucous areolar tissue, and open upon the surface of the mucous membrane by minute excretory ducts. They are most numerous and largest near the pylorus. They may be compared to the elementary lobules of a salivary gland spread out over a broad surface, instead of being collected in a mass. In structure they resemble the pancreas. The solitary glands (ghmdulce solitaries) are found scattered throughout the mucous membrane of the small intestine, but are most numerous in the lower part Fig. 354.—Transverse Section through the equatorial plane of three of Peyer's Follicles from. the Rabbit, a. Capillary network, b. Large circular vessels. of the ileum. They are small, round, whitish bodies, from half a line to a line in diameter. Their free surface is covered with villi, and each gland is surrounded by openings of follicles of Lieberkiihn. They are now recognised as lymphoid follicles, and consist of a dense interlacing retiform tissue permeated with an abundant capillary network (fig. 354). The interspaces of the retiform tissue are continuous with larger lymph-spaces at the base of the follicle through which they communicate with the lacteal system, and they contain lymph-corpuscles in their interior. They are situated partly in the corium of the mucous membrane, partly penetrate its muscular layer, and project into the epithelial layer. The villi, which are situated