712 THE URINARY ORGANS. nerves and semilunar ganglion, and lies in contact on the right side with the inferior vena cava, and on the left side with the aorta. The surface of the supra- renal gland is surrounded by areolar tissue containing much fat, and closely invested by a thin fibrous coat, which is difficult to remove, on account of the numerous fibrous processes and vessels which enter the organ through the furrows on its anterior surface and base. Structure. On making a perpendicular section, the gland is seen to consist of two substances : external or cortical, and internal or medullary. The intimate structure of the suprarenal gland may be described as consisting of three elements : the capsule and its processes, the cells, and the blood-vessels. On section the gland is seen to consist of two parts, a cortical external, and a medullary internal. The former, which constitutes the chief part of the organ, is of a deep yellow colour, and consists chiefly of narrow columnar masses placed perpendicularly to the surface. The medullary substance is soft, pulpy, and of a dark brown or black colour, whence the name atrabiliary capsules, formerly given to these organs. In the centre is often seen a space, not natural, but formed by the breaking-down after death of the medullary substance. 409. 410. Cortical portion of human suprarenal body under a Transverse section through the cortical substance of high magnifying power, a. Gland cylinders ; the human suprarenal body, a, Framework of con- interstitial connective tissue. nective tissue ; b, capillaries ; c, nuclei; d, gland- cells. The cortical portion owes its arrangement to the disposition of the capsule, which sends into the interior of the gland processes passing in vertically and com- municating with each other by transverse bands, so as to form cells which open into each other. These cells are of slight depth near the surface of the organ, so that there the section somewhat resembles a net, but they become much deeper or longer further in, so as to resemble pipes or tubes placed endwise. Still deeper down, near the medullary part, the cells become again of small extent. The interior of these cells contains the ramifications of the capillaries, but the greater part of them is filled with a mass of nucleated cells containing large nuclei and many fat granules, with numerous pigment granules in the parts where colour is most conspicuous. In the medullary portion, the fibrous stroma seems to be collected together into a much closer arrangement, and forms bundles of stout connective tissue which are loosely applied to the large plexus of veins of which this part of the organ mainly consists. In the interstices lie a number of cells compared by Frey to those of