cxlix DEVELOPMENT OF ALIMENTARY CANAL. tion is divided off from them to cover the heart* and form the pericardium. While the abdominal intestine is in the grooved condition, the two peri- toneal cavities are also separate, but they early communicate together. As the tube of the abdominal intestine grows in length, it leaves the vertebral column in the middle, and forms a curve attached to that column by the mesentery. A portion of the intestine above this mesen- tery dilates into the stomach, which gradually also acquires a mesentery of its own ; the rest remains attached to the spine, and forms the duo- denum. The curve of the intestine appears as it were drawn out from the body by its attachment to the vitelline duct, and lies external to the parietes, and in the umbilical cord, until the end of the third month, when it passes back again into the abdomen. While still forming a portion of the cord, the intestine begins to be distinguished into large and small; for the anterior or upper part, corresponding to the small intestine, [begins to assume a convoluted arrangement about the eighth week, whilst the lower part, which had been posterior, passes to the front and right side of the other, and becomes dilated at a short distance from the insertion of the vitelline duct, to form the rudiment of the csecum. When the intestine lies wholly in the belly, the curve of the large intestine begins rapidly to form • but the caecum lies for some time in the middle line, and the ascending colon is not fully formed till the sixth month. The source of each layer of the intestine, and the closure of the ompha- lomesenteric or vitelline duct, have been spoken of above, pp. cxviii., cxxiii. The liver appears after the Wolffian bodies, about the third week, in the form of two depressions formed by the epithelial and fibro-intestinal layers of the blastodermic membrane, and projecting from the intestine at [the part which afterwards forms the duodenum. These depressions are developed into the right and left lobes. They grow very rapidly around iithe omphalomesenteric vein, from which they receive the branches enume- rated on p. cxlvi., and about the third month the liver almost fills the abdominal cavity. From this period the relative development of the liver is less active, more especially that of the left lobe, which now becomes smaller than the right; but the liver remains up to the end of foetal life relatively larger than in the adult. The gall-bladder appears about the second month, and bile is detected in the intestine in the third month. The pancreas is also an early formation, being far advanced in the [second month. It, as well as the other salivary glands, which appear jibout the same period, originates in a projection from the epithelial layer, which afterwards forms a cavity, from the ramifications of which the obules of the gland are formed. In the development both of the liver and pancreas it seems to be idmitted that the epithelial lining of the duct-passages is furnished by the hypoblast, and the vessels by the mesoblast; but authorities differ as ;o the mode of formation of the parenchyma (cellular tissue, &c), whether :his is entirely mesoblastic, or is contributed by both membranes. The spleen is regarded as formed entirely from the mesoblast, pro- ceeding, according to Miiller (Strieker's 6 Handbook,' vol. i.), in all verte- 3rata from a segment of the peritoneum.