THE SPLEEN. 663 originate, 1st, as continuations of the capillaries of the arteries; 2nd, by inter- cellular spaces communicating with each other in the pulp ; 3rd, by distinct csecal pouches. By their junction they form from four to six branches, which emerge from the hilum; and these uniting, form the splenic vein, the largest branch of the vena portse. The veins are remarkable for their numerous anastomoses, while the arteries hardly anastomose at all. The lymphatics originate in two ways, i.e. from the sheaths of the arteries and in the trabecule. The former accompany the blood-vessels, the latter pass to the superficial lymphatic plexus which may be seen on the surface of the organ. The two sets communicate in the interior of the organ. They pass through the lympha- tic glands at the hilum, and terminate in the thoracic duct. The nerves are derived from branches of the right and left semilunar ganglia, and right pneumogastric nerve. 376.—Transverse Section of the Human Spleen, showing the Distribution of the Splenic Artery and its Branches. The termination of the blood-vessels of the spleen in the lymphoid tissue which forms their sheath, necessarily brings the blood into intimate relation with the ele- ments of this sheath, so that the blood passes through its meshes in the same manner as the lymph through the meshes of the lymphatic in an absorbent gland. Hence the general opinion now is that the function, or one of the functions, of the spleen is to act on the blood in the same way as the lymph is acted on in the gland-—i.e. to develop lymphatic, or white, corpuscles in it. And in support of this view the observation is adduced that the blood which leaves the spleen by the vein is especi- ally rich in white corpuscles. The red blood-corpuscles are found in the spleen- pulp in various conditions of disintegration, and Kolliker suggests that the spleen serves as the organ in which the used-up blood-globules are disintegrated in order to form pigment, which is then transferred to the liver by the splenic blood, to be used in the bile. Doubtless the spleen subserves other purposes also. There seems very strong reason for thinking that it acts as a storehouse of nutrition during the inter- vals of feeding, and possibly as a diverticulum for the circulation, uses for which its remarkable elasticity renders it very fit.