493 THIRD VENTRICLE. and running along its upper border is seen the peduncle of the pineal gland. Its upper surface is free, being partly seen in the lateral ventricle; it is partly covered by the fornix, and marked in front by an eminence, the anterior tubercle. Its under surface forms the roof of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle; into it the crus cerebri passes. Its posterior and inferior part, which projects into the descending horn of the lateral ventricle, presents two small rounded eminences, the internal and external geniculate bodies. Its anterior extremity, which is narrow, forms the posterior boundary of the foramen of Monro. The third ventricle is the narrow oblong fissure placed between the thalami optici, and extending to the base of the brain. It is bounded, above, by the under surface of the velum interpositum, from which are suspended the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle; and, laterally, by two white tracts, one on either side, the peduncles of the pineal gland. Its floor, somewhat oblique in its direction, is formed, from before backwards, by the parts which close the interpeduncular space, viz., the lamina cinerea, the tuber cinereum and infundibulum, the corpora albi- cantia and the locus perforatus posticus ; its sides, by the optic thalami; it is bounded, in front, by the anterior crura of the fornix, and part of the anterior commissure ; behind, by the posterior commissure, and the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum. The cavity of the third ventricle is crossed by three commissures, named, from their position, anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior commissure is a rounded cord of white fibres, placed in front of the anterior crura of the fornix. It perforates the corpus striatum on either side, and spreads out into the substance of the hemispheres, over the roof of the descending horn of each lateral ventricle. The middle or soft commissure consists almost entirely of grey matter. It connects together the thalami optici, and is continuous with the grey matter lining the anterior part of the third ventricle. It is frequently broken in examining the brain, and might then be supposed to have been wanting. The posterior commissure, smaller than the anterior, is a flattened white band of fibres, connecting together the two thalami optici posteriorly. It bounds the third ventricle posteriorly, and is placed in front of and beneath the pineal gland, above the opening leading to the fourth ventricle. The third ventricle has four openings connected with it. In front are the two oval apertures of the foramen of Monro, one on either side, through which the third communicates with the lateral ventricles. Behind is a third opening leading into the fourth ventricle by a canal, the aqueduct of Sylvius, or iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum. The fourth, situated in the anterior part of the floor of the ventricle, is a deep pit, which leads downwards to the funnel-shaped cavity of the infundibulum {iter ad infundibulum.) The lining membrane of the lateral ventricles is continued through the foramen of Monro into the third ventricle, and extends along the iter a tertio into the fourth ventricle; at the bottom of the iter ad infundibulum, it ends in a cul- de-sac. Grey matter of the third ventricle. A layer of grey matter covers the greater part of the surface of the third ventricle. In the floor of this cavity it exists in great abundance, and is prolonged upwards on the sides of the thalami, extending across the cavity as the soft commissure; below, it enters into the corpora albicantia, and surrounds in part the anterior pillars of the fornix. Behind the third ventricle, and in front of the cerebellum, are the corpora quadrigemina; and resting upon these, the pineal gland. The pineal gland (conarium), so named from its peculiar shape (pinus, a fir- cone), is a small reddish-grey body, conical in form, placed immediately behind the posterior commissure, and between the nates, upon which it rests. It is retained in its position by a duplicature of pia mater, derived from the under surface of the velum interpositum, which almost completely invests it. The pineal gland is about four lines in length, and from two to three in width, at its base, and