728 MALE GENERATIVE ORGANS. 417.—Vertical Section of the Testicle, to show the arrangement of the Ducts. Tunica "VaginaL Us Se/iter they then become enlarged, and exceedingly convoluted, and form a series of coni- cal masses, the coni vasculosi, which, together, constitute the globus major of the epididymis. Each cone consists of a single convoluted duct, from six to eight inches in length, the diameter of which gradually decreases from the testis to the epididymis. Opposite the bases of the cones, the efferent vessels open at narrow intervals into a single duct, which con- stitutes, by its complex convolutions, the body and globus minor of the epididymis. "When the convolutions of this tube are unravelled, it measures upwards of twenty feet in length, and increases in breadth and thickness as it approaches the vas deferens. The convolutions are held together by fine areolar tissue, and by bands of fibrous tissue. A long narrow tube, the vasculum aberrans of Haller, is occasionally found connected with the lower part of the canal of the epididymis, or with the commencement of the vas deferens. It extends up into the cord for about two or three inches, where it ter- minates by a blind extremity, which is occasionally bifurcated. Its length varies from an inch and a half to fourteen inches, and sometimes it becomes dilated towards its extremity : more commonly, it retains the same diameter throughout. Its structure is similar to that of the vas deferens. Occasional^, it is found unconnected with the epididymis. The Vas Deferens, the excretory duct of the testis, is the continuation of the epididymis. Commencing at the lower part of the globus minor, it ascends along the posterior and inner side of the testis and epididymis, and along the back part of the spermatic cord, through the spermatic canal to the internal abdominal ring. From the ring it descends into the pelvis, crossing the external iliac vessels, and curves round the outer side of the epigastric artery : at the side of the bladder, it arches backwards and downwards to its base, crossing outside the obliterated hypo- gastric artery, and to the inner side of the ureter. At the base of the bladder, it lies between that viscus and the rectum, running along the inner border of the vesicula seminalis. In this situation it becomes enlarged and sacculated; and, becoming narrowed, at the base of the prostate, unites with the duct of the vesicula seminalis to form the ejaculatory duct. The vas deferens presents a hard and cord-like sensation to the fingers; it is about two feet in length, of cylindrical form, and about a line and a quarter in diameter. Its walls are of extreme density and thick- ness, measuring one-third of a line; and its canal is extremely small, measuring about half a line. In structure, the vas deferens consists of three coats : 1. An external, or cellular coat; 2. A muscular coat, which is thick, dense, elastic, and consists of two longi- tudinal, and an intermediate circular layer of muscular fibres; 3. An internal, or mucous coat, which is pale, and arranged in longitudinal folds; its epithelial cover- ing is of the columnar variety. Vesicula Seminales. The Seminal Vesicles are two lobulated membranous pouches, placed between the base of the bladder and the rectum, serving as reservoirs for the semen, and secreting some fluid to be added to that of the testicles. Each sac is somewhat pyramidal in