WOLFFIAN BODY. cli numerous c conduits,' rectilinear at first, but afterwards tortuous, and partly of a cellular or glandular structure, in which Malpighian tufts are found. It is fixed to the diaphragm by a superior ligament, and to the spinal column by an inferior or lumbar ligament. Its office is the same as that of the kidneys, viz., to secrete fluid containing urea, which accu- mulates in the bladder. When the permanent kidneys are formed, the greater part of the Wolffian body disappears. The rest takes part in the formation of the genital organs. The activity of function of the Wolffian bodies is very transitory, and they attain their highest development by the sixth week, after which time they begin to decrease in size, and have nearly disappeared by the end of the third month. The duct of the Wolffian body is the part first formed, and it makes its appearance in a mass of blastema which lies below the heart and be- hind the common pleuro-peritoneal cavity, proceeding from the mesoblast at the point of the separation of its two layers. As this mass is situated below the epiblast (reflected from the medullary cavity) at the side of the pro to vertebrae and above the common pleuro-peritoneal cavity) it has been named ' the intermediate cell-mass.' In this mass, first the Wolffian duct is hollowed out, then the tubes of the Wolffian body begin to form as Fig. XOVII.—Diagram of the primitive mogenital organs in the embryo previous to sexual distinction. The parts are shown chiefly in profile, hut the Mullerian and Wolffian ducts are seen from the front. 3, ureter; 4, urinary bladder ; 5, urachus; ot, the mass of blastema from which ovary or testicle is afterwards formed ; W, left Wolffian body ; x part at the apex from which the coni vasculosi are afterwards developed; w, w, right and left Wolffian ducts ; m, m, right and left Mullerian ducts uniting together and with the Wolffian ducts ingc,the genital cord ; ug, sinusurogenitalis ; i, lower part of the intestine; cl, common opening of the intestine and urogenital sinus; cp, elevation which becomes clitoris or penis; Is, ridge from which the labia majora or scrotum are formed. branches of the duct, next occurs a thickening or ridge—the Wolffian ridge or germ-epithelium—and next a groove which is converted into a duct,