ci THE LYMPHATIC GLANDS. gland into open spaces (alveoli) freely communicating with each other ; (2) a large quantity of retiform connective tissue occupying these spaces ; (3) a free supply of blood-vessels, which are supported on the trabecule ; and (4) the afferent and efferent lymphatics. Little is known of the nerves, though Kolliker describes some fine nervous filaments passing into the hilum. The afferent lymphatics enter the capsule of the gland in variable numbers and at various points, while the efferent vessels are usually only one or two, and they emerge from the gland at a definite spot, the hilum, where there is usually, but not always, a recognisable depression. The external coats of the lymphatic vessels are continuous with the capsule of Fig-. LX.—Follicle from a lymphatic gland of the dog, in vertical section, a, reticular sustentacular substance of the more external portion ; b, of the more internal, and c, of the most external and most finely-webbed part on the surface of the follicle ; d, origin of a large lymph-tube ; e, of a smaller one; /, capsule; g, septa; h, vas afferens; i, investing space of the follicle, with its retinacula; k, one of the divisions of the septa; I I, attachment of the lymph-tubes to the septa. Fig. LXI.—From the medullary substance of an inguinal gland of the ox (after His), a, lymph- tube, with its complicated system of vessels ; b, retinacula stretched between tbe tube and the septa ; c, portion of another lymph-tube ; d, septa. the gland; their internal epithelial lining is continuous with that of the j lymph-channel in the interior of the gland. A section of a lymphatic gland displays two different structures : an external of lighter colour—the cortical; and an internal, darker—the medullary. In the cortical the retiform tissue is disposed in the form of follicles or nodules, which are held on to the septa by delicate sustentacular fibres which unite them to the trabecule, and are said by Frey to keep them stretched and open, as a piece of embroidery is stretched to its frame. From these nodules rods or tubes of retiform tissue proceed, which interlace with each other in a very minute network, of which the medullary tissue of the gland i3 formed. These rods, equally with the nodules of the cortical portion, are supported by a delicate connective tissue which attaches them to the trabecular, and which also contains