THE KIDNEYS. the loop and the straight tube is sometimes called the intercalated convoluted tube (fig. 402 b;). The tubes taking the course above described form a kind of loop, 402. A. Malphigian body. B. Convoluted uriniferous tube. B'. Portion intervening between the straight tube and the loop of Henle (intercalated convoluted tube of Schaltstiick). C C. Looped tube of Henle. D. Straight tube. and are known as the looped or recurrent tubes of Henle, the descending and ascending limbs of which have the diameter of 2oVo^n an(^ toW^1 °f an inch respectively. The ascending limbs, having arrived at the cortical structure, become again con- voluted, and, together with those of the tubuli contorti which have not entered into the loops, end in the straight tubes, or tubuli recti, next to be described. Each straight, otherwise called a collecting or receiving tube, commences at about one line from the surface of the kidney by the coalescence of two or more of the convoluted tubes above mentioned. Passing towards the medullary substance, it con- tinues to receive on either side more convoluted tubes, until at length it enters a pyramid of Malpighi, where it joins at very acute angles with receiving tubes similarly formed, and finally ter- minates by an opening at the mamillary apex, emptying its contents into the calyx adjacent. According to Huschke there are about a thousand straight tubes opening upon the apex of each pyramid, but their number is estimated by Kolliker at about five hundred. It will be seen from the above description, that each of the straight tubes whilst in the cortical structure is surrounded by numerous tubuli con- aa Diagramniaticai sketch of a pyramid t t- d hence, that a kind of pyramid is of Ferrein. B B. Margin of medullary vyj v > » i-J structure, c c c. Loops of Henle. formed : the apex of which consists of the tubulus D I> D. Straight tubes cut off. E.Com- 1 , ,r , . , . ., mencing straight tubes, f. Termina- rectus as it enters the Malpighian pyramid, tion of straight tube. whilst the base, composed of the commencing straight tube with the tubuli contorti from which it originates, looks towards the z z 2 403.