PELVIC FASCIA. Pelvic Fascia. The pelvic fascia (figs. 437, 438) is a thin membrane which lines the whole of the cavity of the pelvis, and is continuous with the trans versalis and iliac fa seise. It is attached to the brim of the pelvis for a short distance at the side of the cavity, and to the inner surface of the bone round the attachment of the Obturator internus. At the posterior border of this muscle, it is continued backwards as a very thin membrane in front of the Piriformis muscle and sacral nerves, behind the branches of the internal iliac artery and vein which perforate it, to the front of the sacrum. In front, it follows the attachment of the Obturator internus to the bone, arches beneath the obturator vessels, completing the orifice of the obturator canal, and at the front of the pelvis is attached to the lower part of the symphysis pubis : 437.—-Side View of the Pelvic Viscera of the Male Subject, showing the Pelvic and Perineal Fasciae. being continuous below the pubes with the fascia ol the opposite side, so as to close the front part of the outlet of the pelvis, blending with the posterior layer of the triangular ligament. At the level of a line extending from the lower part of the symphysis pubis to the spine of the ischium, is a thickened whitish band; this marks the attachment of the Levator ani muscle to the pelvic fascia, and corresponds to its point of division into two layers, the obturator and recto- vesical. The obturator fascia descends and covers the Obturator internus muscle. It is a direct continuation of the pelvic fascia below the white line above mentioned, and is attached to the pubic arch and to the margin of the great sacro-sciatic ligament. This fascia forms a canal for the pudic vessels and nerve in their pas- sage forwards to the perinseum, and is continuous with a thin membrane which covers the perinseal aspect of the Levator ani muscle, called the ischio-rectal (anal) fascia. The recto-vesical fascia (visceral layer of the pelvic fascia) descends into the