MUSCULAR TISSUE. been macerated previously for some time in dilute acid, the nuclei can be perceived. Even in fresh fibres the nuclei are occasionally visible. In many situations these fibres, by prolonged immersion in chromic or nitric acid, can be resolved into the elementary contractile fibre-cells of which Kolliker has shown that they really consist; and in some parts, as in the arteries and in the skin, such fibre-cells are found single. They are elongated, their length being about ten to fifteen times their breadth I02"' to o,4/// in length. '002"' to "003"' in breadth, according to Kolliker), consisting of a spindle-shaped, homogeneous-looking, fibre-cell, in which a rod-shaped nucleus is faintly visible. Acetic acid dissolves out the granular contents of the cell, and brings the nucleus clearly into view. Fig. XXXII.—Non-striated elementary fibres from the human colon, a, treated with acetic acid, showing the corpuscles, b, frag- ment of a detached fibre, not touched with acid. Fig. XXXIII.—Muscular fibre-cells from human arteries. 1, from the popliteal artery ; a, without; b, with acetic acid. 2, from a branch of the anterior tibial; a, nuclei of the fibres. Magnified 350 times. The unstriped muscle, as a rale, is not under the influence of the will, nor is the contraction rapid and involving the whole muscle, as is the case with the muscles of animal life. The membranes which are composed of the unstriped muscle slowly contract in a part of their extent, generally I under the influence of mechanical stimulus, as that of distension or of 1 cold; and then the contracted part slowly relaxes, while another portion of the membrane takes up the contraction. This peculiarity of action is most strongly marked in the intestines, constituting their vermicular motion. In chemical composition, the muscular fibres of both forms consist mainly of a proteid substance—-myosin—which Dr. M. Foster speaks of as intermediate between fibrin and globulin. It is readily converted by the iction of dilute acids into syntonin and albumin, and by the action of lilute alkalis into alkali albuminate. Muscle after death exhibits an acid reaction ; but this appears to be due to post-mortem changes.