KNEE-JOINT. J93 143.—Right Knee-Joint. Showing Ligaments. Internal two parts, separated by the ligament. The ligament has, passing beneath it, the tendon of the Popliteus muscle, and the inferior external articular vessels and nerve The Short External Lateral Ligament is an accessory bundle of fibres, placed behind and parallel with the preceding; attached, above, to the lower part of the outer tuberosity of the femur; below, to the summit of the styloid process of the fibula. This ligament is intimately connected with the capsular ligament, and has, passing beneath it, the tendon of the Popliteus muscle. The Capsular Ligament consists of an exceedingly thin, but strong, fibrous membrane, which fills in the intervals left by the preceding ligaments. It is attached to the femur immediately above its articular surface; below, to the upper border and sides of the patella and the margins of the head of the tibia and inter- articular cartilages, and is continuous behind with the posterior ligament. This membrane is strengthened by fibrous ex- pansions, derived from the fascia lata, from the Vasti and Crureus muscles, and from the Biceps, Sartorius, and tendon of the Semimembranosus. The Crucial are two interosseous lisra- o ments of considerable strength, situated in the interior of the joint, nearer its posterior than its anterior part. They are called crucial, because they cross each other, somewhat like the lines of the letter X; and have received the names anterior and posterior, from the position of their attachment to the tibia. The Anterior or External Crucial Liga- ment (fig. 143), smaller than the posterior, is attached to the inner side of the depres sion in front of the spine of the tibia, being blended with the anterior extremity of the external semilunar fibro-cartilage, and passing obliquely upwards, back- wards, and outwards, is inserted into the inner and back part of the outer condyle of the femur. The Posterior or Internal Crucial Ligament is larger in size, but less oblique in its direction than the anterior. It is attached to the back part of the depression behind the spine of the tibia, to the popliteal notch, and to the posterior extremity of the external semilunar fibro-cartilage ; and passes upwards, forwards, and in- wards, to be inserted into the outer and fore-part of the inner condyle of the femur. As it crosses the anterior crucial ligament, a fasciculus is given off from it, which blends with the posterior part of that ligament. It is in relation, in front, with the anterior crucial ligament; behind, with the ligamentum posticum Winslowii. The Semilunar Fibro-Cartilages (fig. 144) are two crescentic lamellae, which arc attached to the margins of the head of the tibia, and serve to deepen its surface for articulation with the condyles of the femur. The circumference of each cartilage is thick and convex ; the inner free border, thin and concave. Their upper surfaces are concave, and in relation with the condyles of the femur; their lower surfaces are flat, and rest upon the head of the tibia. Each cartilage covers nearly the outer two-thirds of the corresponding articular surface of the tibia, leaving the inner third uncovered; both surfaces are smooth, and invested by synovial membrane. The Internal Semilunar Fibro-Cartilage is nearly semicircular in form, a Little and broader behind than in front; its convex O elongated from before backwards