768 SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE PERINEUM. at its base; and hence the greatest extent of incision that can be made in it without dividing its substance completely across, is obliquely outwards and backwards. This is the direction in which the incision is made through it in the operation of litho- tomy, the extent of which should seldom exceed an inch in length. The relations of the prostate to the rectum should be noticed ; by means of the finger introduced into the gut, the surgeon detects enlargement or other disease of this organ; he is enabled also, by the same means, to direct the point of a catheter when its intro- duction is attended with much difficulty, either from injury or disease of the mem- branous or prostatic portions of the urethra. Behind the prostate is the posterior surface of the neck and base of the bladder : a small triangular portion of this organ is seen, bounded, in front by the prostate gland ; behind, by the recto-vesical fold of the peritoneum ; on either side, by the vesicular seminales and vasa deferentia; and separated from direct contact with the rectum by the recto-vesical fascia. The relation of this portion of the bladder to the rectum is of extreme interest to the surgeon. In cases of retention of urine this portion of the organ is found projecting into the rectum, between three and four inches from the margin of the anus, and may be easily perforated during life without injury to any important parts; this portion of the bladder is, consequently, fre- quently selected for the performance of the operation of tapping the bladder. If the finger is introduced into the bowel, the surgeon may, in some cases, learn the position, as well as the size and weight, of a calculus in the bladder; and in the operation for its removal, if, as is not unfrequently the case, it should be lodged behind an enlarged prostate, it may be displaced from its position by pressing upwards the base of the bladder from the rectum. Parts concerned in the Operation of Lithotomy. The triangular ligament must be replaced and the rectum drawn forwards so as to occupy its normal position. The student should then consider the position of the various parts in reference to the lateral operation of lithotomy. This operation is performed on the left side of the perineum, as it is most convenient for the right hand of the operator. A staff having been introduced into the bladder, the first incision is commenced midway between the anus and the back of the scrotum (i.e. in an ordinary adult perineum, about an inch and a half in front of £he anus), a little on the left side of the raphe, and carried obliquely backwards and outwards to midway between the anus and tuberosity of the ischium. The incision divides the integument and superficial fascia, the external hemorrhoidal vessels and nerves, and the superficial and transverse perineal vessels ; if the fore-finger of the left hand is thrust upwards and forwards into the wound, pressing at the same time the rectum inwards and backwards, the staff may be felt in the membranous portion of the urethra. The finger is fixed upon the staff, and the structures covering it are divided v/ith the point of the knife, which must be directed along the groove towards the bladder, the edge of the knife being carried outwards and backwards, dividing in its course the membranous portion of the urethra, and part of the left lobe of the prostate gland, to the extent of about an inch. The knife is then withdrawn, and the fore-finger of the left hand passed along the staff into the bladder : the staff having been withdrawn, and the position of the stone ascertained, the forceps is introduced over the finger into the bladder. If the stone is very large, the opposite side of the prostate may be notched before the forceps is introduced : the finger is now withdrawn, and the blades of the forceps opened and made to grasp the stone, which must be extracted by slow and cautious undulating movements. Parts divided in the operation. The various structures divided in this operation are as follows :—the integument, superficial fascia, external hemorrhoidal vessels and nerves, the posterior fibres of the Accelerator urine, the Transversus perinei muscle and artery (and, probably, the superficial perineal vessels and nerves), the deep perineal fascia, the anterior fibres of the Levator ani, part of the Compressor urethre, the membranous and prostatic portions of the urethra, and part of the prostate gland. Parts to he avoided in the operation. In making the necessary incisions in the