SEVENTH. FACIAL. 5i5 being internal and resting on the Superior oblique, the frontal resting on the Levator palpebrae, and the lachrymal on the External rectus. Next in order comes the superior division of the third nerve lying immediately beneath the Superior rectus, and then the nasal division of the fifth crossing the optic nerve from the outer to the inner side of the orbit. Beneath these is found the optic nerve, sur- rounded in front by the ciliary nerves, and having the lenticular ganglion on its outer side, between it and the External rectus. Below the optic is the inferior division of the third, and the sixth, which lies on the outer side of the orbit. Facial Nerve. (Fig. 284.) The Facial Nerve, or portio dura of the seventh pair, is the motor nerve of all the muscles of expression in the face, and of the Platysma and Buccinator. It supplies also two of the muscles of the external ear, the posterior belly of the Digastric, and the Stylo-hyoid. Through the chorda tympani it supplies the Lingualis; by its tympanic branch, the Stapedius and Laxator tympani; through the otic ganglion, the Tensor Tympani ; and through the connection of its trunk with the Vidian nerve, by the petrosal nerve, it probably supplies the Levator palati and Azygos uvula?. It arises from the lateral tract of the medulla oblongata, in the groove between the olivary and restiform bodies. Its deep origin may be traced to the floor of the fourth ventricle, where it is connected with the same nucleus as the sixth nerve. This nerve is situated a little nearer to the middle line than the portio mollis, close to the lower border of the pons Varolii, from which some of its fibres are derived. Connected with this nerve, and lying between it and the portio mollis, is a small fasciculus (portio inter duram et mollem of Wrisberg, or portio intermedia). This ac- cessory portion arises from the lateral column of the cord. The nerve passes forwards and outwards upon the crus cerebelli, and enters the in- ternal auditory meatus with the auditory nerve. Within the meatus, the facial nerve lies first to the inner side of the auditory, and then in a groove upon that nerve, and is connected to it by one or two filaments. At the bottom of the meatus, it enters the aquasductus Fallopii, and follows the serpentine course of that canal through the petrous portion of the temporal bone, from its commencement at the internal meatus to its termination at the stylo- mastoid foramen. It is at first directed outwards towards the hiatus Fallopii, where it forms a reddish gangliform swelling (intumescentia ganglioformis), and is joined by several nerves; then bending suddenly backwards, it runs in the internal wall of the tympanum, above the fenestra ovalis, and at the back of that cavity passes vertically downwards to the stylo-mastoid foramen. On emerging from this aperture, it runs forwards in the substance of the parotid gland, crosses the external carotid artery, and divides behind the ramus of the lower jaw into two primary branches, temporo-facial and cervico-facial, from which numerous offsets are distributed over the side of the head, face, and upper part of the neck, supplying the superficial muscles in these regions. As the primary branches and their offsets diverge from each other, they present somewhat the appearance of a bird's claws ; hence the name of pes anserinus is given to the divisions of the facial nerve in and near the parotid gland, l l 2 283.— The Course and Connections of the Facial Nerve, in the Temporal Bone.