GENERAL ANATOMY. Ixx The capillaries of muscle are very abundant, and form a series of rectangular areola?, the branches which run longitudinally between the muscular fibres being united at short intervals by transverse anasto- mosing branches. Nerves are profusely distributed to the muscular tissue, more especially to the voluntary muscles. The mode of their termination will be de- scribed on a subsequent page. The distribution and the mode of origin of the lymphatic vessels of muscle have not been ascertained. The muscles during life, and for some time after death, respond to the appropriate stimulus by contracting in the manner peculiar to the class to which they belong. Thus, for some time after a limb has been amputated, its muscles can be set in motion by scratching, pinching, or galvanising them ; and even after the irritability of the muscular tissue has been exhausted by the prolonged suspension of the circulation, it can be at first temporarily restored by injecting fresh arterial blood through it (Brown-Sequard). The time at which muscular irritability ceases after death depends on the vitality of the subject; thus it ceases in birds, whose circulation and vital heat are of a very high degree, sooner than in man and quadrupeds; in these sooner than in fishes, &c. Dr. Sharpey says that it lasts long in hybernating animals killed during their winter sleep. It is also affected by the mode of dying, being extinguished instan- taneously (as is asserted) in some cases of lightning-stroke, and much diminished by certain gaseous poisons, particularly sulphuretted hydrogen. As the muscles die they become stiff, and it is to this cause that the rigidity so characteristic of recent death (c rigor mortis ') is due. The ultimate cause of the phenomenon is not well understood, beyond the obvious fact that it must be due to the change from partial fluidity to a solid condition of the contents of the sarcolemma. The periods of its occurrence and of its disappearance are very variable ; and the causes of those variations are of extreme interest and importance, especially in medico-legal inquiries ; but the subject is too complicated to be adequately treated here. All that need be said in this place is that, as might be expected, the rigor is stronger the more powerful and more healthy the muscles are, and consequently is both more powerful and more lasting in eases of sudden or violent death. It also sets in later in such cases, while in emaciated and exhausted subjects it is more rapid and transient; as is also the case, according to Hunter, in animals which have been hunted to death. In some instances of violent death in persons of robust frame, the rigor mortis has not entirely disappeared till the end of the first week after death. In rare cases (as in some instances of death from lightning) the muscles are found rigid immediately, and in other cases rigor com- mences in a few minutes, but usually not till six or seven hours after death. The cessation of rigidity in the muscles must be regarded as the commencement of putrefactive changes.