SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 563 301.—Ganglia and Nerves of the Gravid Uterus at the end of the Ninth Month. After Dr. R. Lee. A. The fundus and body of the uterus, having the peritoneum dissected off from the left side. B. The vagina covered with nerves proceeding from the inferior border of the left hypogastric ganglion. C. The rectum. D. The left ovarium and Fallopian tube. E. The trunk of the left spermatic vein and artery surrounded by the left spermatic ganglion. F. The aorta divided a little above the origin of the right spermatic artery, and about three inches above its division into the two common iliac arteries. Gr. The vena cava. H. Trunk of the right spermatic vein entering the vena cava. I. Eight ureter. K. The two cords of the great sympathetic nerve passing down along the front of the aorta. L. Trunk of the inferior mesenteric artery, passing off from the aorta, and covered with a great plexus of nerves sent off from the left and right cords of the great sympathetic. M. M. The two coi'ds of the great sympathetic passing down below the bifurcation of the aorta to the point where they separate into the right and left hypogastric nerves. N. The right hypogastric nerve with its artery injected proceeding to the neck of the uterus, to terminate in the right hypogastric ganglion. O. The left hypogastric nerve where it is entering the left hypogastric ganglion, and giving off branches to the left subperitoneal ganglion. P. Hemorrhoidal nerves accompanying the haemorrhoidal artery and proceeding from the great plexus which surrounded the inferior mesenteric artery. Q. The sacral nerves entering*the whole outer surface of the hypogastric ganglion. R. The left hypogastric ganglion with its arteries injected. S. The nerves of the vagina. T. Nerves with an injected artery proceeding from the upper part of the left hypogastric ganglion along- the body of the uterus, and terminating in the left sper- matic ganglion. U. Continuation of these rerves and the branches "which they give off to the subperitoneal plexuses. V. The same nerves passing upward beneath the subperitoneal plexuses, and anastomosing freely with them. W. The left spermatic ganglion, in which the nerves and artery from the hypogastric ganglion, and the branches of the left subperitoneal plexuses terminate, and from which the nerves of the fundus uteri are supplied. X. The left subperitoneal plexuses covering the body of the uterus. Y. The left subperitoneal ganglion, with numerous branches of nerves extending between it and the left hypogastric nerve and ganglion, Z. The left common iliac artery cut across and turned aside, that the left hypogastric nerve and ganglion might be traced and exposed.