661 THE SPLEEN. proper elements of the pulp, which are now to be described, and the radicles of the veins are continuous with those spaces, their walls being prolonged into the pro- cesses of the cells. The pulp is a soft mass of a dark reddish-brown colour, consisting of colourless and coloured elements. The colourless elements consist of granular matter ; nuclei, about the size of the red blood-discs, homogeneous or granular in structure; and nucleated vesicles in small numbers. These elements form, probably, one half or two-thirds of the whole substance of the pulp, filling up the interspaces formed by the partitions of the spleen, and lying in close contact with the walls of the capillary vessels, so as to be readily acted upon by the nutrient fluid which permeates them. Thus in well- nourished animals, they form a large part of the entire bulk of the spleen, whilst they diminish in number, and occasionally are wanting, in starved animals. The application of chemical tests shows that they are essentially a proteine compound. The coloured elements of the pulp consist of red blood-globules and of coloured cor- puscles, either free or included in cells. Sometimes, unchanged blood-discs are seen included in a cell; but more frequently the included blood-discs are altered both in form and colour. Besides these, numerous deep red, or reddish-yellow, or black cor- puscles and crystals, either single or aggregated in masses are seen diffused through- out the pulp-substance : these, in chemical composition, are closely allied to the hsematin of the blood. Malpighian Corpuscles. On examining the cut surface of a healthy spleen, a number of small semi-opaque bodies, of gelatinous consistence, are seen disseminated throughout its substance; these are the splenic or Malpighian corpuscles (fig. 373). They may be seen at all periods of life; but they are more distinct in early than in adult life or old age; and they are much smaller in man than in most mammalia. They are of a spherical or ovoid form, vary considerably in size and number, and are of a semi-opaque whitish col our. They are appended to the sheaths of the smaller arteries and their branches, presenting a resemblance to the buds of the moss rose. 374.—One of the Splenic Corpuscles, showing its Relations with the Blood-vessels. Each consists of a membranous capsule, composed of fine pale fibres, which interlace in all directions. In man, the capsule is homogeneous in structure, and formed by a prolongation from the sheaths of the small arteries to which the corpuscles are