724 MALE GENERATIVE ORGANS. the views of Langer are those which are now universally adopted. He describes the arteries of the corpus cavernosum as terminating, some of them (as above), in ordinary capillaries. Others run, as somewhat fine arterial twigs (about ^ ^-th of an inch in diameter), into the venous network, while the terminal branches of the arteries open directly into the venous spaces by remarkable funnel-shaped orifices. There are also capillaries which surround the coats of the large arteries, and com- municate with the venous spaces. This arrangement of vessels is also found in the bulb of the urethra. In the corpus spongiosum and in the glans, the arteries com- municate with the venous spaces through the intervention of capillary vessels.* The lymphatics of the penis consist of a superficial and deep set ; the former ter- minate in the inguinal glands; the latter emerge from the corpora cavernosa and corpus spongiosum, and, passing beneath the pubic arch, join the deep lymphatics of the pelvis. The nerves are derived from the internal pudic nerve and the hypogastric plexus. On the glans and bulb some filaments of the cutaneous nerves have Pacinian bodies connected with them. The Testes and their Coverings. The testes are two small glandular organs, which secrete the semen ; they are situated in the scrotum, being suspended by the spermatic cords. At an early, period of foetal life, the testes are contained in the abdominal cavity, behind the peri- toneum. Before birth, they descend to the inguinal canal, along which they pass with the spermatic cord, and, emerging at the external abdominal ring, they descend into the scrotum, becoming invested in their course by numerous coverings derived from the serous, muscular, and fibrous layers of the abdominal parietes, as well as by the scrotum. The coverings of the testis are—the • "I Scrotum. Dartos J Intercolumnar, or External spermatic fascia. Cremaster muscle. Infundibuliform, or Fascia propria (Internal spermatic fascia). Tunica vaginalis. The Scrotum is a cutaneous pouch, which contains the testes and part of the spermatic cords. It is divided into two lateral halves, by a median line, or raphe, which is continued forwards to the under surface of the penis, and backwards along the middle line of the perinaeum to the anus. Of these two lateral portions the left- is longer than the right, and corresponds with the greater length of the spermatic cord on the left side. Its external aspect varies under different circumstances: thus, under the influence of warmth, and in old and debilitated persons, it becomes elongated and flaccid ; but, under the influence of cold, and in the young and robust, it is short, corrugated, and closely applied to the testes. The scrotum consists of two layers, the integument and the dartos. The integument is very thin, of a brownish colour, and generally thrown into" folds or rugae. It is provided with sebaceous follicles, the secretion of which has a| peculiar odour, and is beset with thinly scattered, crisp hairs, the roots of which are seen through the skin. The dartos is a thin layer of loose reddish tissue, endowed with contractility : it forms the proper tunic of the scrotum, is continuous, around the base of the scrotum, with the superficial fascia of the groin, perinaeum, and inner side of the thighs, and. sends inwards a distinct septum, septum scroti, which divides it into two cavities for the two testes, the septum extending between the raphe and the under surface of the penis, as far as its root. The dartos is closely united to the skin externally, but connected with the sub- * See Frey's Manual of Histology for a summary of Langer's description of these vessels.