OF THE TARSUS. 199 in front, from within outwards, the Tibialis anticus, Extensor proprius pollicis, anterior tibial vessels, anterior tibial nerve, Extensor communis digitorum, and Peroneus tertius ; behind, from within outwards, Tibialis posticus, Flexor longus digitorum, posterior tibial vessels, posterior tibial nerve, Flexor longus pollicis ; and, in the groove behind the external malleolus, the tendons of the Peroneus longus and brevis. The Arteries supplying the joint are derived from the malleolar branches of the anterior tibial and peroneal. The Nerves are derived from the anterior tibial. Actions. The movements of the joint are limited to flexion and extension. There is no lateral motion; the astragalus being embraced by the two malleoli, and held securely in its place in all positions of the foot. Of these the external malleolus is longer than the internal, and is situated further backwards, an arrangement which Prof. Humphry connects with the direction in which the weight of the bo cly appears to be transmitted to each side of the foot when planted on and raised off the ground.* The lower tibio-fibular joint and the elasticity of the fibula permit of some separation of the two bones in flexion and extension of the limb, corresponding to the varying size of the surface of the astragalus; the latter is considerably wider in front than behind (fig. 113, p. 135) in order to resist the tendency to dislocation of the foot backwards in alighting on the toes. Of the ligaments, the internal, or deltoid, is of very great power—so much so that it usually resists a force which fractures the process of bone to which it is attached. Its middle portion, together with the middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament, binds the bones of the leg firmly to the foot and resists displacement in every direction. Its anterior and posterior fibres limit extension and flexion of the foot respectively, and the anterior fibres also limit abduction. The posterior portion of the external lateral ligament assists the middle portion in resisting the dis- placement of the foot backwards, and deepens the cavity for the reception of the astragalus. The anterior fasciculus is a security against the displacement of the foot forwards, and limits extension of the joint. The movements of abduction and adduction of the foot, together with the minute changes in form by which it is applied to the ground or takes hold of an object in climbing, &c, are effected in the tarsal joints; the one which enjoys the greatest amount of motion being that between the astragalus and os calcis behind, and the scaphoid and cuboid in front. This is often called the transverse tarsal joint, and it, with the subordinate joints of the tarsus, can replace the ankle-joint in a great measure when the latter has become ankylosed. V. Articulations of the Tarsus. These articulations may be subdivided into three sets:—1. The articulations of the first row of tarsal bones. 2. The articulations of the second row of tarsal bones. 3. The articulations of the two rows with each other. 1. Articulations of the First Pow of Tarsal Bones. The articulations between the astragalus and os calcis are two in number— anterior and posterior. They are arthrodial joints. The bones are connected together by three ligaments :— External Calcaneo-Astragaloid. Posterior Calcaneo-Astragaloid. Interosseous. The External Calcaneo-Astragaloid Ligament (fig. 146) is a short strong fasci- culus, passing from the outer surface of the astragalus, immediately beneath its external malleolar facet, to the outer edge of the os calcis. It is placed in front of * The fact should he remembered in operative surgery. Thus the ankle-joint is move easily opened at the inside than the outside, in consequence of the relative shortness of the internal malleolus. Again, in cutting the flaps for Syme's amputation, if the knife is carrii d as far upwards and forwards as the point of the inner malleolus, the posterior flap will be unmanageably long, and great difficulty will he found in reflecting it over the os calcis.