756 SURGICAL ANATOMY OF FEMORAL HERNIA. of Poupart's ligameni is curved downwards towards the thigh; its outer half being oblique, its inner half nearly horizontal. Nearly the whole of the space included between the crural arch and innominate bone is filled in by the parts which descend from the abdomen into the thigh. The outer half of the space is occupied by the Iliacus and Psoas muscles, together with the external cutaneous and anterior crural nerves. The pubic side of the space is occupied by the femoral vessels included in their sheath, a small oval-shaped interval existing between the femoral vein and the inner wall of the sheath, which is occupied merely by a little loose areolar tissue, and occasionally by a small lymphatic gland : this is the crural canal, along which the gut descends in femoral hernia. Gimbemat's Ligament (fig. 430) is that part of the aponeurosis of the External oblique muscle which is reflected downwards and outwards, to be inserted into the pectineal line of the os pubis. It is about an inch in length, larger in the male than in the female, almost horizontal in direction in the erect posture, and of a triangular form, the base directed outwards. Its base, or outer margin, is concave, thin and sharp, lies in contact with the crural sheath, and is blended with the pubic portion of the fascia lata. Its apex corresponds to the spine of the pubes. Its posterior margin is attached to the pectineal line. Its anterior margin is continuous with Poupart's ligament. Crural Sheath. If Poupart's ligament is divided, the femoral or crural sheath may be demonstrated as a continuation downwards of the fascise that line the abdomen, the transversalis fascia passing down in front of the femoral vessels, and the iliac fascia descending behind them ; these fascise are directly continuous on the iliac side of the femoral artery, but a small space exists between the femoral vein and the point where they are continuous on the pubic side of that vessel, which constitutes the femoral or crural canal. The femoral sheath is closely adherent to the contained vessels about an inch below the saphenous opening, becoming blended with the areolar sheath of the vessels, but opposite Poupart's ligament it is much larger than is required to contain them ; hence the funnel-shaped form which it presents. The outer border of the sheath is perforated by the genito-crural nerve. Its inner border is pierced by the internal saphenous vein, and numerous lymphatic vessels. In front, it is covered by the iliac portion of the fascia lata; and behind it is the pubic portion of the same fascia. Deep Crural Arch. Passing across the front of the crural sheath, and closely connected with it, is a thickened band of fibres, called the deep crural arch. It is apparently a thickening of the fascia transversalis, joining externally to the centre of Poupart's ligament, and arching across the front of the crural sheath, to be inserted by a broad attachment into the pectineal line, behind the conjoined tendon. In some subjects, this structure is not very prominently marked, and not unfrequently it is altogether wanting. If the anterior wall of the sheath'is removed, the femoral artery and vein are seen lying side by side, a thin septum separating the two vessels, while another septum separates the vein from the inner wall of the sheath. The septa are stretched between the anterior and posterior walls of the sheath, so that each vessel is enclosed in a separate compartment. The interval left between the vein and the inner wall of the sheath is not filled up by any structure, excepting a little loose areolar tissue, a few lymphatic vessels, and occasionally a lymphatic gland; this is the femoral or crural canal, through which the intestine descends in femoral hernia. The crural canal is the narrow interval between the femoral vein and the inner wall of the crural sheath. It exists as a distinct canal only when the sheath has been separated from the vein by dissection, or by the pressure of a hernia or tumour. Its length is from a quarter to half an inch, and it extends from Gimbemat's liga- ment to the upper part of the saphenous opening. Its anterior wall is very narrow, and formed by the fascia transversalis, Poupart's ligament, and the falciform process of the fascia lata.