CEREBELLUM. 497 the uvula, which is placed between the two rounded lobes which occupy the sides of the valley, the amygdala? or tonsils, and is connected with them by a commissure of grey matter, indented on the surface, called the furrowed band. In front of the uvula is the nodule; it is the anterior pointed termination of the inferior vermiform process, and projects into the cavity of the fourth ventricle; it has been named by Malacarne the laminated tubercle. On each side of the nodule is a thin layer- of white substance, attached externally to the flocculus, and internally to the nodule ; these form together the posterior medullary velum, or commissure of the flocculus. It is usually covered in and concealed by the amygdalae, and cannot be seen until they are drawn aside. This band is of a semilunar form on each side, its anterior margin being free and concave, its posterior attached just in front of the furrowed band. Between it and the nodulus and uvula behind, is a deep fossa, called the swallow's nest {nidus hirundinis). Lobes of the cerebellum. Each hemisphere is divided into an upper and a lower portion by the great horizontal fissure, which commences in front at the pons, and passes horizontally round the free margin of either hemisphere, backwards to the middle line. From this primary fissure numerous secondary fissures proceed, which separate the cerebellum into lobes. Upon the upper surface of either hemisphere there are two lobes, separated from each other by a fissure. These are the anterior or square lobe, which extends as far back as the posterior edge of the vermiform process, and the posterior or semilunar lobe, which passes from the termination of the preceding to the great horizontal fissure. Upon the under surface of either hemisphere there are five lobes, separated by sulci; these are from before backwards, i. the flocculus or sub-peduncular lobe, a prominent tuft, situated behind and below the middle peduncle of the cerebellum ; its surface is composed of grey matter, subdivided into a few small lamina? : it is sometimes called the pneumogastric lobide, from being situated behind the pneumo- gastric nerve : 2. the amygdala or tonsil, situated on either side of the great median fissure or valley, and projects into the fourth ventricle : 3. the digastric lobe, situated on the outside of the tonsil, and connected in part with the pyramid : 4. the slender lobe, behind the digastric, and connected with the back part of the pyramid and the commissura brevis : and more posteriorly (5.) the inferior posterior lobe, which also joins the commissura brevis in the valley. Structure. (Fig. 275.) If a vertical section is made through either hemisphere of the cerebellum, midway between its centre and the superior vermiform process, the interior will be found to consist of a central stem of white matter, which contains in its interior a dentate body. From the surface of this central stem a series of plates of medullary matter are detached, which, covered with grey matter, form the lamina? ; and from the anterior part of each hemisphere arise three large processes or peduncles, superior, middle, and inferior, by which the cerebellum is connected with the rest of the encephalon. The laminae are about ten or twelve in number, including those on both surfaces of the cerebellum, those in front being detached at a right angle, and those behind at an acute angle ; as each lamina proceeds outwards, other secondary lamina? are detached from it, and from these, tertiary lamina?. The arrangement thus described gives to the cut surface of the organ a foliated appearance, to which the name arbor vitce has been given. Each lamina consists of white matter, covered externally by a layer of grey substance. The white matter of each lamina is derived partly from the central stem : in addition to which white fibres pass from one lamina to another. The grey matter resembles somewhat the cortical substance of the convolutions. It consists of two layers : the external one, soft and of a greyish colour; the internal one, firmer and of a rust colour The corpus clentatum, or ganglion of the cerebellum, is situated a little to the inner side of the centre of the stem of white matter. It consists of an open bag or capsule of grey matter, the section of which presents a grey dentated outline open K K