GENERAL ANATOMY. c method of their commencement. But the lymphatics have also other modes of origin, for the intestinal lacteals commence by closed extremities (fig. 350, p. 638), and it seems now to be conclusively proved that the serous membranes present stomata, or openings between the epithelial cells (fig. LVIIL), by which there is an open communication with the lymphatic sys- tem, and through which the lymph is thought to be pumped by the alternate dilatation and contraction of the serous surface, due to the movements of respiration and circulation."* Von Recklinghausen was the first to observe the passage of milk and other coloured fluids through these stomata on the peritoneal surface of the central tendon of the diaphragm.f Again, the lymphoid or retiform tissue which is found in various organs, and in some, as in the spleen, surrounds the minute blood-vessels With, a kind of sheath, forms another and a very extensive mode of origin of lymphatics, whether the meshes of this retiform tissue pass directly into the minute lymphatic plexus, or whether the latter is regarded as closed, so that the fluid in the retiform tissue has to pass by osmosis into the lymphatic vessel, which certainly seems to be the case in the intes- tinal villi. As the retiform tissue is also in very similar relation to the terminal capillaries, there is here a free method of communication between the blood-vessels and lymphatics, though the direct continuity of their tubes by vascular anastomosis can nowhere be proved to exist, as far as has been shown at present. The lymph-sinuses or lymph-paths of the lymphatic glands may be regarded as another mode of origin of lymphatics, or as a modification of the above-mentioned origin Fig;. LIX.—Section of small lymphatic gland, in retiform tissue. Closely corresponding to, or identical with, this retiform tissue is the system of interfa- scicular spaces in the connective tissue, with the branched corpus- cles lying in those spaces; and Klein has described and figured a direct communication between these spaces and the lymphatic vessels (< Atlas of Histology,' pi. viii. fig. xiv.). There is no satisfactory evi- dence to prove that any natural communication exists between the lymphatics of glandular organs and the ducts of those organs. The lymphatic glands consist of (1) a fibrous envelope, or capsule, from which a framework of processes (trabecular) proceed inwards, dividing the * The resemblance between lymph and serum led Hewson long ago to regard the serous cavities as sacs into which the lymphatics open. These recent microacopic discoveries con- j firm this opinion in a very interesting manner. f For a fuller account see Klein, ' Anatomy of the Lymphatic System,' ' Atlas of Histology.' half diagrammatical ly given, with the course of the lymph, a, the envelope: b, septa between the follicles or alveoli of the cortical part; c, system of septa of the medullary portion, down to the hilum; d, the follicles; e, lymph-tubes of the medullary mass; f, different lymphatic streams which surround the follicles, and flow through the interstices of the medullary portion ; g, confluence of these, passing through the efferent vessel, h, at the hilum.