MUSCULO-SPIRAL. 54i it descends between the Brachialis anticus and Supinator longus to the front of the external condyle, where it divides into the radial and posterior interosseous nerves. The branches of the musculo-spiral nerve are :— The muscular branches are divided into internal, posterior, and external ; they supply the Triceps, Anconeus, Supinator longus, Extensor carpi radialis longior, and Brachialis anticus. These branches are derived from the nerve, at the inner side, back part, and outer side of the arm. The internal muscular branches supply the inner and middle heads of the Triceps muscle. That to the inner head of the Triceps, is a long, slender filament, which lies close to the ulnar nerve, as far as the lower third of the arm. The posterior muscular branch, of large size, arises from the nerve in the groove between the Triceps and the humerus. It divides into branches which supply the outer head of the Triceps and Anconeus muscles. The branch for the latter muscle is a long, slender filament, which descends in the substance of the Triceps to the Anconeus in the same course with the posterior articular branch from the superior profunda artery. The external muscular branches supply the Supinator longus, Extensor carpi radialis longior, and, usually, the Brachialis anticus. The cutaneous branches are three in number, one internal and two external. The internal cutaneous branch arises in the axillary space, with the inner muscu- lar branch. It is of small size, and passes through the axilla to the inner side of the arm, supplying the integument on its posterior aspect nearly as far as the olecranon. The two external cutaneous branches perforate the outer head of the Triceps, at its attachment to the humerus. The upper and smaller one follows the course of the cephalic vein to the front of the elbow, supplying the integument of the lower half of the upper arm on its anterior aspect. The lower branch pierces the deep fascia below the insertion of the Deltoid, and passes down along the outer side of the arm and elbow, and along the back part of the radial side of the fore-arm to the wrist, supplying the integument in its course, and joining, near its termination, with the posterior branch of the external cutaneous nerve. The radial nerve passes along the front of the radial side of the fore-arm, to the commencement of its lower third. It lies at first a little to the outer side of the radial artery, concealed beneath the Supinator longus. In the middle third of the fore-arm, it lies beneath the same muscle, in close relation with the outer side of the artery. It quits the artery about three inches above the wrist, passes beneath the tendon of the Supinator longus, and, piercing the deep fascia at the outer border of the fore-arm, divides into two branches. The external branch, the smaller of the two, supplies the integument of the radial side and ball of the thumb, joining with the posterior branch of the external cutaneous nerve. The internal branch communicates, above the wrist, with the anterior branch from the external cutaneous, and, on the back of the hand, forms an arch with the dorsal cutaneous branch of the ulnar nerve. It then divides into four digital nerves, which are distributed as follows : the first supplies the ulnar side of the thumb; the second, the radial side of the index finger ; the third, the adjoining sides of the index and middle fingers; and the fourth, the adjacent borders of the middle and ring fingers. The latter nerve communicates with a filament from the dorsal branch of o the ulnar nerve. The posterior interosseous nerve pierces the Supinator brevis, winds to the back of the fore-arm, in the substance of that muscle, and, emerging from its lower border, passes down between the superficial and deep layer of muscles, to the middle of the fore-arm. Considerably diminished in size, it descends on the interosseous membrane, beneath the Extensor secundi internodii pollicis, to the back of the carpus, where it presents a gangliform enlargement from which filaments are distributed to the liga- Muscular. Cutaneous. Radial. Posterior interosseous.