ORGANS OF SENSE. 572 firmer and more elastic than the papillae of mucous membrane generally, and often enclose minute hairs. Simple papillae, similar to those of the skin, are dispersed very unequally among the compound forms, and exist sparingly on the surface of the tongue behind the cir- cumvallate variety, buried under a layer of epithelium. Structure of the papilla',. The papilla? apparently resemble in structure those of the cutis, consisting of a cone-shaped projection of homogeneous tissue, covered with a thick layer of squamous epithelium, and contain one or more capillary loops, amongst which nerves are distributed in great abundance. If the epithelium is removed, it will be found that they are not simple processes like the papilla? of the skin, for the surface of each is studded with minute conical processes of the mucous membrane, which form secondary papilla? (Todd and Bowman). In the papilla? circumvallata?, the nerves are numerous and of la,rge size; in the papilla? fungiformes they are also numerous, and terminate in a plexiform net-work, from which brush-like branches proceed ; in the papilla? filiformes, their mode of termina- tion is uncertain. Buried in the epidermis of the papilla? circumvallata?, and in some of the fungiform es, certain peculiar bodies called taste-corpuscles have been described. They are flask-like in shape, their broad base resting on the corium, and their neck opening by an orifice between the cells of the epithelium. They are formed by two kinds of cells : the exterior, which are arranged in several layers, being spindle- shaped ; the internal, consisting of nuclei with processes on either side, of which the deep one is described as continuous with the terminal fibril of a nerve, while the superficial projects as an extremely fine hair through the orifice of the taste-cor- puscle.* Besides the papilla?, the mucous membrane of the tongue is provided with numerous follicles and glands. The follicles are found scattered over its entire surface, but are especially numerous between the papilla? circumvallata? and the epiglottis. Their walls contain much lymphoid tissue. The mucous glands (lingual), similar in structure to the labial and buccal, are found chiefly beneath the mucous membrane of the posterior third of the dorsum of the tongue. There is a small group of these glands beneath the tip of the tongue, a few along the borders of the organ, and some in front of the circumvallate papilla? projecting in the muscular substance. Their' ducts open either upon the surface, or into the depressions round the large papilla?. The epithelium is of the scaly variety like that of the epidermis. It covers the free surface of the tongue, as may be easily demonstrated by maceration, or boiling, when it can be detached entire : it is much thinner than in the skin : the intervals between the large papilla? are not filled up by it, but each papilla has a separate in- vestment from root to summit. The deepest cells may sometimes be detached as a sepal-ate layer, corresponding to the rete mucosum, but they never contain colouring matter. The tongue consists of two symmetrical halves, separated from each other, in the middle line, by a fibrous septum. Each half is composed of muscular fibres arranged in various directions, containing much interposed fat, and supplied by vessels and nerves : the entire organ is invested by mucous membrane, and a submucous fibrous stratum. The latter membrane invests the greater part of the surface of the tongue, and into it the muscular fibres are inserted that pass to the surface. It is thicker behind than in front, and is continuous with the sheaths of the muscles attached to it. The fibrous septum consists of a vertical layer of fibrous tissue, extending through- out the entire length of the middle line of the tongue, from the base to the apex. It is thicker behind than in front, and occasionally contains a small fibro-cartilage, about a quarter of an inch in length. It is well displayed by making a vertical section across the organ. Another strong fibrous lamina, termed the hyoglossal mem- * See Engelmann, in Strieker's Handbook (New Syd. Soc.'s Trans.), vol. iii. p. 2,