THE NERVES. Ixxxv fibres, and again pass on to become blended with the nerve-fibres in some adjoining fasciculus. Nerves, in their course, subdivide into branches, and these frequently communicate with branches of a neighbouring nerve. In the subdivision of a nerve, the filaments of which it is composed are continued from the trunk into the branches, and at their junction with the branches of neighbouring nerves the filaments pass to become intermixed with those of the other nerve in their further progress; in no instance, however, have the separate nerve-fibres been shown to inosculate. The communications which take place between two or more nerves form what is called a plexus. Sometimes a plexus is formed by the primary branches of the trunks of the nerves, as the cervical, brachial, lumbar, and sacral plexuses, and occasionally by the terminal fasciculi, as in the plexuses formed at the periphery of the body. In the formation of a plexus the component nerves divide, then join, and again subdivide in such a complex manner that the individual fasciculi become interlaced most intricately; so that each branch leaving a plexus may contain filaments from each of the primary nervous trunks which form it. In the formation also of the smaller plexuses at the periphery of the body, there is a free interchange of the fasciculi and primitive fibrils. In each case, however, the individual filaments remain separate and distinct, and do not inosculate with each other. It is probable that, through this interchange of fibres, the different branches passing off from a plexus have a more extensive connection with the spinal cord than if they each had proceeded to be distributed without such connection with other nerves. Consequently, the parts supplied by these nerves have more extended relations with the nervous centres ; by this means, also, groups of muscles may be associated for combined action. The Sympathetic nerve consists of tubular and gelatinous fibres, inter- mixed with a varying proportion of filamentous areolar tissue, and enclosed in a sheath formed of fibro-areolar tissue. (Fig. XXXIX.) The tubular fibres are, for the most part, smaller than those composing the cerebro- spinal nerves; their double contour is less distinct, and, according to Eemak, they present nuclei similar to those found in the gelatinous nerve-fibres. Those branches of the sympathetic which present a well- marked grey colour are composed more especially of gelatinous nerve- fibres, intermixed with a few tubular fibres ; whilst those of a white colour contain more of the tubular fibres and a few gelatinous. Occasionally, the grey and white cords run together in a single nerve, without any inter- mixture, as in the branches of communication between the sympathetic ganglia and the spinal nerves, or in the communicating cords between the ganglia. The nerve-fibres, both of the cerebro-spinal and sympathetic system, convey impressions of a twofold kind. The sensory nerves, called also centripetal or afferent nerves, transmit to the nervous centres impressions made upon the peripheral extremities of the nerves, and in this way the mind, through the medium of the brain, becomes conscious of external objects. The motor nerves, called also centrifugal or efferent nerves, transmit impressions from the nervous centres to the parts to which the