NERVOUS TISSUE. Ixxi NERVOUS TISSUE. The nervous tissue is composed chiefly of two different structures—the grey or vesicular, and the white or fibrous. It is in the former, as is generally supposed, that nervous impressions and impulses originate, and by the latter that they are conducted. Hence the grey matter forms the essential constituent of all the ganglionic centres, both those separated in the ganglia, and those aggregated in the cerebro-spinal axis ; while the white matter is found in all the commissural portions of the nerve-centres, and in all the cerebro-spinal nerves. Besides these two principal kinds of nervous matter, there is found a third structure—chiefly in the sympa- thetic system—called the gelatinous nerve-tissue. The nervous substance is again divided into two different systems. The first is connected directly with the great central mass enclosed in the Fig. XXXIV.—Nerve-vesicles from the Gasserian ganglion of the human sub- ject, a, a globular one with defined border; b, its nucleus; c, its nucleo- lus ; d, caudate vesicle ; e, elongated vesicle with two groups of pigment particles ; /, vesicle surrounded by its sheath or capsule of nucleated par- jr, the same, the sheath only Fig. XXXV.—Nerve-vesicles from the inner part of the grey matter of the convolutions of the human brain ; magnified 350 times. Nerve-cells: a, larger, b, smaller, c, nerve-fibre, with axis- cylinder. being in focus, meters. Magnified 300 dia skull and spine. This is called the cerebro-spinal system, and is divided into the brain (including the medulla oblongata), the spinal cord, the cranial nerves, the spinal nerves, and the ganglia connected with both those classes of nerves. The second, called the sympathetic system, is not directly connected with the brain or spinal cord, though it is so indirectly by means of its numerous communications with the cranial and spinal nerves. It consists of a double chain of ganglia, with the branches which go to and come from them. A third method of division of the nervous system is based upon the functions which it performs. On this principle it is divided into the nervous system of animal life and the nervous system of organic life—the