DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEETH. seventh week. On the surface of the jaw there is found a depression or groove (' the dental groove'), the surface of which is formed of a collection of epithelial cells, the tissue below of gelatinous and cellular substance, which is taken to represent the corium and cellular tissue of the mucous membrane, and deeper than which is the ossifying substance of the jaw (fig. 333). The essential structures of the teeth are derived from these two elements, the enamel from the epithelium which covers the surface of the dental groove, the dentine and crusta petrosa from the deeper structures. 333.—Vertical Section of the Inferior Maxilla of an early Human Foetus. (Magnified 25 diams.) 1. Dental groove. 2. Remains of the enamel-germ. 3. Enamel organ, presenting externally epithelium, as also "Where it forms the enamel-germ of the papilla? of "the dental sacculus. 4. Secondary enamel-germ ; rudiment of the permanent tooth. 5. Dental germ. G. Lower jaw. 7. Meckel's cartilage. First as to the enamel. The epithelium becomes heaped up over the margins of the dental groove, and then passes down into it, and as the sides of the groove rise up, the epithelial mass (or ' enamel organ ') seems to pass deeper and deeper into the substance of the jaw, meeting with the papilla, presently to be described, from which the dentine or bulk of the tooth is developed, and assuming the form of a flask or cap united to the superficial layer of epithelium by a neck, bridge, or string of epithe- lium. This string is the gubernaculum or future enamel organ of the permanent tooth. As the dental papilla grows up from the bottom of the groove, the enamel organ folds itself over it in the form of a cap, or capsule, presenting an outer and inner surface, still epithelial (fig. 334), and an intermediate portion undergoing development into the proper enamel tissue. The epithelial covering on the outer surface of the enamel long remains distinctly perceptible. After the tooth has emerged from the gum, this layer may be separated from the calcified mass below by the action of strong acids, in the form of a membrane (cuticula dentis, Nasmyth's membrane) marked by the hexagonal impressions of the enamel prisms, and when stained by nitrate of silver showing the characteristic appearance of epithelium. This membrane soon wears away from the surface of the tooth. The bulk of the enamel is formed by the calcification of the epithelial cells, which are changed into hexa,gonal prisms, the communication of which with each other forms the hexagonal rods of the mature enamel; but the exact relation of the embry- onic cells to the future rods, and the precise reason of the appearance of the trans- verse strise on the latter, have not yet been satisfactorily demonstrated. The calcifi- cation of the successive layers of epithelium is preceded by the production of a gelatinous mass (the ' enamel jelly ') between the investing epithelium and the cal- cifying tissue. As the epithelium is undergoing this remarkable development a projection of the