69 ANTERIOR REGION OF THE SKULL. temporal; below, by the alveolar border of the superior maxilla ; internally, by the external pterygoid plate ; and externally, by the zygomatic arch and ramus of the jaw. It contains the lower part of the Temporal, the External, and Internal pterygoid muscles, the internal maxillary artery, the inferior maxillary nerve, and their branches. At its upper and inner part may be observed two fissuras, the spheno-maxillary and pterygo-maxillary. The Spheno-maxillai'y fissure, horizontal in direction, opens into the outer and back part of the orbit. It is formed above by the lower border of the orbital surface of the great wing of the sphenoid; below, by the external border of the orbital surface of the superior maxilla and a small part of the palate bone; externally, by a small part of the malar bone; internally, it joins at right angles with the pterygo-maxillary fissure. This fissure opens a communication from the orbit into three fossae, the temporal, zygomatic, and spheno-maxillary; it transmits the superior maxillary nerve and its orbital branch, the infraorbital artery, and ascending branches from Meckel's ganglion. The Pterygo-maxillary fissure is vertical, and descends at right angles from the inner extremity of the preceding; it is an elongated interval, formed by the divergence of the superior maxillary bone from the pterygoid process of the sphenoid. It serves to connect the spheno-maxillary fossa with the zygomatic, and transmits branches of the internal maxillary artery. It forms the entrance from the zygomatic fossa to The Spheno-Maxillary Fossa. The Spheno-maxillary fossa is a small triangular space situated at the angle of junction of the spheno-maxillary and pterygo-maxillary fissures, and placed beneath the apex of the orbit. It is formed above by the under surface of the body of the sphenoid or by the orbital plate of the palate bone ; in front, by the superior maxillary bone; behind, by the pterygoid process of the sphenoid; internally, by the vertical plate of the palate. This fossa has three fissures terminating in it, the sphenoidal, spheno-maxillary, and pterygo-maxillary; it communicates with three fossae, the orbital, nasal, and zygomatic, and with the cavity of the cranium, and has opening into it five foramina. Of these there are three on the posterior wall; the foramen rotundum above; below, and internal to this, the Yidian, and still more inferior and internal, the pterygo-palatine. On the inner wall is the spheno-palatine foramen by which the spheno-maxillary communicates with the nasal fossa, and below is the superior orifice of the posterior palatine canal, besides occasionally the orifices of two or three accessory posterior palatine canals. Anterior Region of the Skull. The Anterior Region of the Skull, which forms the face, is of an oval form, presents an irregular surface, and is excavated for the reception of the two prin- cipal organs of sense, the eye and the nose. It is bounded above by the nasal eminences and margins of the orbit; below, by the prominence of the chin; on each side, by the malar bone, and anterior margin of the ramus of the jaw. In the median line are seen from above downwards, the nasal eminences, which indicate the situation df the frontal sinuses ; and diverging from which are the superciliary ridges which support the eyebrows. Beneath the nasal eminences is the arch of the nose, formed by the nasal bones, and the nasal processes of the superior maxillary. The nasal arch is convex from side to side, concave from above downwards, presenting in the median line the internasal suture, formed between the nasal bones, laterally the naso-maxillary suture, formed between the nasal bone and the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, both these sutures terminating above in that part of the transverse suture which connects the nasal bones and nasal processes of the superior maxillary with the frontal. Below the nose is seen the opening of the anterior nares, which is heart-shaped, with the narrow end upwards, and presents laterally the thin sharp margins serving for the attachment of the lateral cartilages of the nose, and in the middle line below, a prominent process, the anterior nasal spine, bounded by two deep notches. Below this is the'