639 THE SMALL INTESTINES. valvulse conniventes retard the passage of the food along the intestines, and afford a more extensive surface for absorption. The villi are minute, highly vascular processes, projecting from the mucous mem- brane of the small intestine throughout its whole extent, and giving to its surface a velvety appearance. In shape some are triangular and laminated, others conical or cylindrical, with clubbed or filiform extremities. They are largest and most numerous in the duodenum and jejunum, and become fewer and smaller in the ileum. Krause estimates their number in the upper part of the small intestine at from fifty to ninety in a square line ; and in the lower part from forty to seventy ; the total number for the whole length of the intestine being about four millions. The structure of the villi has been studied recently by many eminent anatomists. We shall here follow the description of Dr. AVatney,* whose researches have a most important bearing on the physiology of that which is the peculiar function of this part of the intestine, the absorption of fat. The essential parts of a villus are the lacteal vessel, the blood-vessels, the epithe- lium, the basement membrane and muscular tissue of the mucosa, and the cells and reticular tissue which fill up the interspaces. The lacteals are situated in the axis of the villi. They arise either by clubbed or dilated extremities, or else by loops. In some few cases they are double, and in animals multiple. They are composed of a single layer of epithelium. Forming a sheath or adventitia to this epithelium, penetrating between the epithelial cells, is (according to Dr. Watney) an abundant reticulum, along which he believes the fat- granules to travel. The pale muscular fibres which play so important a part in the 351.—Two Villi magnified. 35:.—Transverse Section of Crypts of Lieberkiilm. anatomy and functions of the villus are derived from the muscularis mucosae, and they terminate in close relation with the cells of the villus (i. e. the cells which lie in the interstices of the capillary network outside the lacteal), where they appear to be continuous with the reticulum. The capillaries lie around the villus, and are also provided with a sheath of reticular tissue. The cells of the villus are large masses of protoplasm with an oval nucleus. Their size and the shape of their nucleus, as 353.—Longitudinal Section of Crypts of Lieberkiihn. Goblet-cells seen among the Columnar Epithelial Cells. (Klein and Noble Smith.) well as their behaviour towards reagents, distinguish them, according to Dr. Watney, from the lymph corpuscles which are also met with in smaller numbers, and which * Phil. Trans, vol. clxvi. pt. 2,