GENERAL ANATOMY. cxl the mesoblast, through a fissure which exists around the growing lens— the choroidal fissure, or ocular cleft. The fold of mesoblast which pro- jects through this fissure is thus introduced behind the lens into the cavity of the secondary ocular vesicle (or ocular cup, as it is now called after Foster and Balfour), and it here furnishes the vascular and fibrous elements of the iris and choroid, while its extremity is believed to extend down the stalk of the primitive ocular vesicle and furnish the arteria centralis retinae with the sheath and connective tissue of the optic nerve. The two layers of the primitive ocular vesicle are at first separated by a space continuous with that of the original medullary cavity (or foetal ventricle), but this space is afterwards obliterated. The outer layer of the vesicle is chiefly pigmentary. It lines the mesoblastic elements which are to furnish the vascular choroid, and is developed into the hexa- gonal pigment-layer, which functionally forms part of the choroid, but is now often described as belonging to the retina, on account of this method of development. The sclerotic and the fibrous or true cornea are also developed out of this layer, though probably with admixture of meso- blastic elements. In fact, the mesoblast is now described by the most recent authorities as the source of both membranes. The inner layer gives origin to the retina. Fig. XC.—Diagrammatic sketch of a vertical longitudinal section through the eye- ball of a human foetus of four weeks (alter Kplliker). Magnified 100 diameters. The section is a little to the side, so as to avoid passing through the ocular cleft, c, the cuticle, where it becomes later the cornea : I, the lens; op, optic nerve formed by the pedicle of the primary optic vesicle ; vp, primary medullary cavity of the optic vesicle; p, the pigment-layer of the outer wall: r, the inner wall forming the retina; vs, secondary optic vesicle containing the rudiment of the vitreous humour. VP The eyelids are formed at the end of the third month, as small cutaneous folds, which come together in front of the globe and cohere. This union is broken up, and the eyelids separate before the end of foetal life. The lachrymal canal appears to result from the non-closure of a fissure which exists between the external nasal process and the maxillary process (p. cxxxiii.). Development of the ear.—The first rudiment of the ear appears about the same time as that of the eye, in the form of a vesicle (primitive auditory vesicle, figs. LXXXV.,LXXXVL, 11) situated close on the outside of the third cerebral vesicle, though not communicating with it. It is formed by a depression of the epithelium over the second pharyngeal arch, which becomes converted into a closed sac. From this vesicle the