Ixxxvi GENERAL ANATOMY. nerves are distributed, these impressions either exciting muscular con- tractions, or influencing the processes of nutrition, growth, and secretion. Terminations of Nerves.—By the expression £ the termination of nerve- fibres ' is signified their connections with the nerve-centres and with the parts which they supply. The former are called their central, the latter their 'peripheral terminations. With regard to the central terminations of the nerves, little is as yet certainly known.* The nerve-cells, or nerve-corpuscles, above figured, have been regarded as the central origin of the fibres with which they are connected ; and it is very probable that in many cases they are so. There are instances, however, in which such cells occur as mere nucleated swellings in the course of a nerve, and in these cases they obviously cannot be regarded as being in any sense the origins of the nerves. In other cases, as in the nerve-cells in the anterior horn of the grey matter of the cord, there are numerous processes springing out of the cell; one of these (and, according to Deiters, one only) is recognised as an axis-cylinder; the others are fibrillse, which are continuous with similar fibrillse, of which under high powers the apparently granular contents of the cell are found to be composed, and which appear, therefore, simply to run through the cell. The fibrillar may be, and probably are, primitive nervous fibrils, but they are so delicate that it has not as yet been found possible to ascertain their destination. With regard also to the axis-cylinder which is seen pro- ceeding out of the ganglionic corpuscle, although it is highly probable that it originates in that corpuscle, the fact has not been proved—nor has its relation to the nucleus of the corpuscle been demonstrated. In fine, all that is known on the subject is, that many of the fibrillse and axis- cylinders can be shown either to originate in or to pass through ganglionic corpuscles (or nerve-cells), and other nerves can be shown to contain such nerve-cells in their interior at certain parts of their course. But whether in the case of such connection in one of the central organs the cell is to be regarded as the origin of the nervous fibril, or whether the fibril merely passes through the cell (as some observers believe), just in the same manner as nerves pass through ganglia, has not been determined. If the latter view be correct, it may be that nerves have really no central termination, but that their fibrils start from their peripheral distribution, travel to the nervous centre, are there brought into connection with the nerve-cells, and thence return to their distribution. However, in the present state of anatomical knowledge, the more probable opinion seems to be that which is usually entertained : viz., that each nerve-fibre is connected somewhere with a ganglionic corpuscle which is to be regarded as its central termi- nation or origin. Dr. Beale asserts that -even in those ganglion-cells, which appear either altogether destitute of processes, or unipolar, numerous fibres can be seen proceeding out of them if the proper reagents be used and very high powers employed. The peripheral connections, or terminations of the nerve-fibres, are * One of the most recent and most distinguished observers on this subject. Max Schultze, speaks thus: 'In the present state of our knowledge, we are not in a position to assign its central origin to any single primitive fibril of the nervous system, however certainly we may have discovered the peripheral terminations of a great part of them.'—Schultze, in Strieker's Handbuch, 1868, p. 134.