567 PELVIC PLEXUS. The Lumbar Portion of the Sympathetic. The lumbar portion of the sympathetic is situated in front of the vertebral column, along the inner margin of the Psoas muscle. It consists usually of four ganglia, connected together by interganglionic cords. The ganglia are of small size, of a greyish colour, shaped like a barleycorn, and placed much nearer the median line than the thoracic ganglia. The superior and inferior branches of the lumbar ganglia serve as communicating branches between the chain of ganglia in this region. They are usually single and of a white colour. The external branches communicate with the lumbar spinal nerves. From the situation of the lumbar ganglia, these branches are longer than in the other regions. They are usually two in number for each ganglion, and accompany the lumbar arteries around the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae, passing beneath the fibrous arches from which some of the fibres of the Psoas muscle arise. The internal branches pass inwards, in front of the aorta, and form the lumbar aortic plexus, already described. Other branches descend in front of the common iliac arteries, and join, over the promontory of the sacrum, to form the hypogastric plexus. Numerous delicate filaments are also distributed to the bodies of the vertebrae, and the ligaments connecting them. Pelvic Portion of the Sympathetic. The pelvic portion of the sympathetic is situated in front of the sacrum, along the inner side of the anterior sacral foramina. It consists of four or five small ganglia on each side, connected together by interganglionic cords. Below, these cords converge and unite on the front of the coccyx, by means of a small ganglion (ganglion impar). The superior and inferior branches are the cords of communication between the ganglia above and below. The external branches, exceedingly short, communicate with the sacral nerves. They are two in number to each ganglion. The coccygeal nerve communicates either with the last sacral, or coccygeal ganglion. The internal branches communicate, on the front of the sacrum, with the corre- sponding branches from the opposite side; some, from the first two ganglia, pass to join the pelvic plexus, and others form a plexus, which accompanies the middle sacral artery. The hypogastric plexus supplies the viscera of the pelvic cavity. It is situated in front of the promontory of the sacrum, between the two common iliac arteries, and is formed by the union of numerous filaments, which descend on each side from the aortic plexus, from the lumbar ganglia, and from the first two sacral ganglia. This plexus contains no ganglia ; and bifurcates, below, into two lateral portions, which form the inferior hypogastric, or pelvic plexuses. Inferior Hypogastric, or Pelvic Plexus. The inferior hypogastric, or pelvic plexus, is situated at the side of the rectum and bladder in the male, and at the side of the rectum, vagina, and bladder, in the female. It is formed by a continuation of the hypogastric plexus, by branches from the second, third, and fourth sacral nerves, and by a few filaments from the sacral ganglia. At the point of junction of these nerves, small ganglia are found. From this plexus numerous branches are distributed to all the viscera of the pelvis. They accompany the branches of the internal iliac artery. The inferior haimorrhoidal plexus arises from the back part of the pelvic plexus. It supplies the rectum, joining with branches of the superior hsemorrhoidal plexus. The vesical plexus arises from the fore part of the pelvic plexus. The nerves composing it are numerous, and contain a large proportion of spinal nerve fibres.