xc GENERAL ANATOMY. with tlie granular contents of their nuclei, he traces the filaments back again from that point to the nuclei situated at the junctions of the nervous plexuses, in the connective tissue of the muscular fibres. In the voluntary muscles Beale and Kolliker have described the nerve- fibres as terminating either in a plexiform arrangement, or (according to the latter author) sometimes in free ends between the muscular fibres external to the sarcolemma. Lately another method of termination, which had been formerly describee!, has received the support of numerous eminent authorities—viz., the 4 motorial end-plates ' of Klihne, or * nerve- hillocks ' (nerve-tufts) of Doyere. The latter author had described, more than thirty years ago, a connec- tion between the nervous and muscular fibres in some of the lower animals, consisting in an elevation at the point of junction of the two, where the sarcolemma of the muscular fibre became blended with the tubular membrane of the nerve. This has been since so far confirmed by sub- sequent researches that it seems well to figure, from the most recent author, Kiihne, what he supposes to be the termination of all motor nerves of voluntary muscles. The following is Kiihne's description of the method of connection :— i In all striped muscles the nerves terminate below the sarcolemma— the tubular membrane being blended with the sarcolemma. The wdiite Fig. LI.—Muscular fibres of Lacerta viridis with the terminations of nerves, a, seen in pro- file ; P P? the nerve-end-plates ; s s, the base of the plate, consisting of a granular mass with nuclei, b, the same as seen in looking at a perfectly fresh fibre, the nervous ends being probably still excitable. (The forms of the variously-divided plate can hardly be represented in a woodcut by sufficiently delicate and pale contours to reproduce correctly what is seen in nature.) c, the same as seen two hours after death from poisoning by curare. substance accompanies the axis-cylinder as far as this point. The ending of the axis-cylinder always represents an expansion with a considerably increased surface, and this is constantly formed by its branching out on a flat plate. This nerve-end-plate is sometimes more like a membrane, at others like a system of fibres. In most cases the plate rests upon a base of granules and finely-granular protoplasm ; in other cases, there is no such support, and the nerve-plates then possess the so-called nerve-end- bulbs. The ends of the nerves never penetrate the interior of the con- tractile cylinder, nor does the plate ever embrace the whole circumference