THE SALIVARY GLANDS. 621 maxillary winds through it inwards, behind the neck of the jaw. Superficial to the external carotid is the trunk formed by the union of the temporal and internal max- illary veins; a branch, connecting this trunk with the internal jugular, also tra- verses the gland. It is also traversed, from before backwards, by the facial nerve and its branches, which emerge at its anterior border ; the great auricular nerve pierces the gland to join the facial, and the temporal branch of the inferior maxillar y nerve lies above the upper part of the gland. The internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein lie close to its deep surface. The duct of the parotid gland (Steno's) is about two inches and a half in length. It opens upon the inner surface of the cheek by a small orifice, opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw ; and from this orifice it may be traced obliquely for a short distance beneath the mucous membrane, and thence through the substance of the Buccinator muscle, and across the Masseter to the anterior border of the gland in the substance of which it commences by numerous branches. The direction of the duct corresponds to a line drawn across the face about a finger's breadth below the zygoma, from the lower part of the concha, to midway between the free margin of the upper lip and the ala of the nose. While crossing the Masseter, it receives the duct of a small detached portion of the gland, socia parotidis, which occasionally exists as a separate lobe, just beneath the zygomatic arch. The parotid duct is dense, of considerable thickness, and its canal about the size of a crow-quill; it consists of an external or fibrous coat, of considerable density, containing contractile fibres, and of an internal or mucous coat lined with columnar epithelium. Vessels and Nerves. The arteries supplying the parotid gland are derived from the external carotid, and from the branches given off by that vessel in or near its substance. The veins follow a similar course. The lymphatics terminate in the superficial and deep cerA^ical glands, passing in their course through two or three lymphatic glands, placed on the surface and in the substance of the parotid. The nerves are derived from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic, the facial, and the superficial temporal branches of the auriculo-temporal, and great auricular nerves. The Submaxillary gland, is situated below the jaw, in the anterior part of the submaxillary triangle of the neck. It is irregular in form, and weighs about two drachms. It is covered by the integument, Platysma, deep cervical fascia, and the body of the lower jaw, corresponding to a depression on the inner surface of that bone; and lies upon the Mylo-hyoid, Hyo-glossus, and Stylo-glossus muscles, a portion of the gland passing beneath the posterior border of the Mylo-hyoid. In front of it is the anterior belly of the Digastric ; behind, it is separated from the parotid gland by the stylo-maxillary ligament, and from the sublingual gland in front by the Mylo-hyoid muscle. The facial artery lies embedded in a groove in its posterior and upper border. The duct of the submaxillary gland (Wharton's) is about two inches in length, and its walls are much thinner than those of the parotid duct. It opens by a narrow orifice on the summit of a small papilla, at the side of the frsenum lingua?. Traced from thence, it is found to pass between the sublingual gland and the Genio- hyo-glossus muscle, then backwards and outwards between the Mylo-hyoid, and the Hyo-glossus and Genio-hyo-glossus muscles, and above the gustatory nerve, to the deep portion of the gland, where it commences by numerous branches. Vessels and Nerves. The arteries supplying the submaxillary gland are branches of the facial and lingual. Its veins follow the course of the arteries. The nerves are derived from the submaxillary ganglion, from the Mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior dental, and from the sympathetic. The Sublingual gland is the smallest of the salivary glands. It is situated beneath the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, at the side of the frsenum lingure, in contact with the inner surface of the lower jaw, close to the symphysis. It is narrow, flattened, in shape somewhat like an almond, and weighs about a drachm. It is in relation, above, with the mucous membrane ; beloiv, with the Mylo-hyoid muscle; in front, with the depression on the side of the symphysis of the lower jaw, and with its fellow of the opposite side j behind, with the deep