CONVOLUTIONS OF THE BRAIN. ferior occipital. The occipital convolutions are connected with the superior parietal lobule, with the angular convolution, and with the temporo-sph'enoidal lobe, by various convolutions termed annectant, described as four in number. The convolutions of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe are three : a superior, lying behind or internal to the posterior branch of the Sylvian fissure; a middle, con- tinuous with the angular and middle occipital convolution ; and an inferior, con- tinuous with the inferior occipital. At the point where the Sylvian fissure bifurcates is found the commencement of the island of Eeil, the fifth lobe of the brain, a triangular-shaped prominent cluster of about six convolutions, the gyri operti, so called from being covered in by the sides of the fissure. They are continuous with those of the frontal, parietal, and temporo-sphenoidal lobes. By the removal of these convolutions the extra- ventricular part of the corpus striatum would be reached. 266.—Vertical Median Section of the Encephalon, showing the parts in the middle line. 1. Convolution of corpus callosum. Above It is the calloso-marginal fissure, running out at 2 to join the fissure of Rolando. 3. The parietooccipital fissure. 4. 4 point to the calcarine fissure, which is just above the numbers. Between 2 and 3 are the convolutions of the quadrate lobe. Between 3 and 4 is the cuneate lobe. 5. The corpus callosum. 6. The septum lucidum. 7. The fornix. 8. Anterior pillar of the fornix, descending to the base of the brain, and turning on itself to form the corpus albicans. Its course to the optic thalamus is indicated by a dotted line. 9. The optic thalamus. In front of the number and behind the anterior cms of the fornix, a shaded part indicates the foramen of Monro ; behind the number an oval mark shows the position of the grey matter continuous with the middle commissure. 10. The velum interpositum. 11. The pineal gland. 12. The corpora quadrigemina. 13. The crus cerebri. 14. The valve of Vieussens (above the number'). 15. The pons Varolii. 16. The third nerve. 17. The pituitary body. 18. The optic nerve. 19. points to the anterior commissure, indicated by an oval mark behind the number. On the inner, or median, surface of the hemispheres there is no division into lobes, and the arrangement of the convolutions is less complex (fig. 266). The termination of the parietooccipital fissure will be seen at the posterior part, and joining this near the posterior extremity of the corpus callosum is another fissure, the calcarine, which commences usually by two branches at the back of the hemi- sphere, and runs nearly horizontally to join the parietooccipital fissure. Between it and the latter fissure a wedge-shaped mass of convolution? (the cuneate lobule) I I