58o ORGANS OF SENSE. aqueous humour. In the course of the dissection, the ciliary nerves maybe seen lying in the loose cellular tissue between the choroid and sclerotic, or contained in delicate grooves on the inner surface of the latter membrane. Second Tunic. This is formed by the choroid behind ; the iris and ciliary pro- cesses in front; and by the ciliary ligament, and Ciliary muscle, at the point of junction of the sclerotic and cornea. The choroid is the vascular and pigmentary tunic of the eyeball, investing the posterior five-sixths of the globe, and extending as far forwards as the cornea; the ciliary processes being appendages of the choroid developed from its inner surface in front. The iris is the circular muscular septum, which hangs vertically behind the cornea, presenting in its centre a large circular aperture, the pupil. The ciliary ligament and Ciliary muscle form the white ring observed at the point where the choroid and iris join with each other, and with the sclerotic and cornea. The Choroid is a thin, highly vascular membrane, of a dark brown or chocolate colour, which invests the posterior five-sixths of the central part of the globe. It is pierced behind by the optic nerve, and terminates in front at the ciliary ligament, where it bends inwards, and forms on its inner surface a series of folds or plaitings, 313.—The Veins of the Choroid. (Enlarged.) the ciliary processes. It is thicker behind than in front. Externally, it is connected by a fine cellular web (membrana fusca) with the inner surface of the sclerotic. Its inner surface is smooth, and lies in contact with the retina. The choroid is composed of three layers, external, middle, and internal. The external layer consists, in part, of the larger branches of the short ciliary arteries which run forwards between the veins before they bend downwards to ter- minate on the inner surface. This coat is formed, however, principally of veins, which are named, from their distribution, venm vorticosai. They converge to four or five equidistant trunks, which pierce the sclerotic midway between the margin of the cornea and the entrance of the optic nerve. Interspersed between the vessels are lodged dark star-shaped pigment-cells, the fibrous offsets from which, communicating with similar branchings from neighbouring cells, form a delicate network, which to- wards the inner surface of the choroid loses its pigmentary character. The middle layer consists of an exceedingly fine capillary plexus, formed by the short ciliary vessels, and is known as the tunica Ruychiana. The network is close, and finer at the hinder part of the choroid than in front. About half an inch behind the cornea, its meshes become larger, and are continuous with those of the ciliary process.