THE CORONARY. 353 commencement of the transverse or upper part of tlie ascending portion ; or the distance from one another at their origin may be increased or diminished, the most frequent change in this respect being the approximation of the left carotid towards the innominate artery. The Number of the primary branches maybe reduced to two: the left carotid arising from the innominate artery; or (more rarely), the carotid and subclavian arteries of the left side arising from a left innominate artery. But the number may be increased to four, from the right carotid and subclavian arteries arising directly from the aorta, the innominate being absent. In most of these latter cases, the right subclavian has been found to arise from the left end of the arch; in other cases, it was the second or third branch given oft* instead of the first. Lastly, the number of trunks from the arch may be increased to five or six; in these instances, the external and internal carotids arise separately from the arch, the common carotid being absent on one or both sides. Number usual, Arrangement different. When the aorta arches over to the right side, the three branches have an arrangement the reverse of what is usual, the innominate supplying the left side, and the carotid and subclavian (which arises separately) the right side. In other cases, where the aorta takes its usual course, the two carotids may be joined in a common trunk, and the subclavians arise separately from the arch, the right subclavian generally arising from the left end of the arch. Secondary Branches sometimes arise from the arch; most commonly such a secondary branch is the left vertebral, which usually takes origin between the left carotid and left subclavian, or beyond them. Sometimes, a thyroid branch is derived from the arch, or the right internal mammary, or right vertebral, or, more rarely, both vertebral.* The Coronary Arteries. The coronary arteries supply the heart; they are two in number, right and left, arising near the commencement of the aorta immediately above the free margin of the semilunar valves. The Right Coronary Artery, about the size of a crow's quill, arises from the aorta immediately above the free margin of the right semilunar valve, between the pulmonary artery and the right appendix auriculae It passes forwards to the right side, in the groove between the right auricle and ventricle, and curving around the right border of the heart, runs along its posterior surface as far as the posterior interventricular groove, where it divides into two branches, one of which continues onwards in the groove between the left auricle and ventricle, and anastomoses with the left coronary; the other descends along the posterior inter- ventricular furrow, supplying branches to both ventricles and to the septum, and anastomosing at the apex of the heart with the descending branch of the left coronary. This vessel sends a large branch along the thin margin of the right ventricle to the apex, and numerous small branches to the right auricle and ventricle, and the commencement of the pulmonary artery. The Left Coronary, smaller than the former, arises immediately above the free edge of the left semilunar valve, a little higher than the right; it passes forwards between the pulmonary artery and the left appendix auricula?, and descends obliquely towards the anterior interventricular groove, where it divides into two branches. Of these, one passes transversely outwards in the left auriculo-ventri- cular groove, and winds around the left border of the heart to its posterior surface, where it anastomoses with the superior branch of the right coronary; the other descends along the anterior interventricular groove to the apex of the heart, where it anastomoses with the descending branch of the right coronary. The left coronary supplies the left auricle and its appendix, both ventricles, and numerous small branches to the pulmonary artery, and commencement of the aorta. Peculiarities. These vessels occasionally arise by a common trunk, or their number may be increased to three; the additional branch being of small size. More rarely, there are two additional branches. Arteria Innominata. The innominate artery is the largest branch given off from the arch of the aorta. It arises from the commencement of the transverse portion in front of the left * The anomalies of the aorta and its branches are minutely described by Krause in Ilenle's ' Anatomy' (Brunswick, 1868), vol. iii., p. 203 et seq.