FIBROUS TISSUE. xlv fibrillse. Acted upon by acetic acid, the white fibrous tissue swells up into an indistinct uniform mass, which gradually becomes indistinguishable; and in the areolar tissue, when thus treated, the yellow elastic element comes alone into view. The yellow elastic fibrous tissue (Fig. VII.) is an aggregation of fibres, which are considerably larger in size than the fibrillse of the white fibrous element, varying from ytoito to roVo °f an inch in diameter (Harley). The fibres branch and anastomose freely with one another. They are homogeneous in appearance, with dark borders, and are usually seen curled up at their broken ends. They remain unaltered by acetic acid. Fig-. VII.— Yellow elastic tissue. High power. Fig. VIII.—Stel- late formative cells of fine elastic fibres, from the Ten- do-Achillis of a new - born child. Magni- fied 350 times. Fig. IX.—Forma- tive cells of areolar tissue from sheep's embryo. Magni- fied 350 times ; a, cell without any indication of fi- brils ; b, with com- mencing, and c, ■with distinct fi- brils. Each of these elements of the connective tissue is developed from cells. Kolliker describes the yellow elastic fibres as developed from the stellate branching corpuscles, which may sometimes be found free in the areolar tissue, and which Virchow has denominated 6 connective-tissue-corpuscles ' (Fig. VIII.); while the white fibrous tissue is formed from the coalescence of fusiform cells, which elongate into fibrillse as shown by Fig. IX. The two tissues just described are very widely distributed in the body, especially the white fibrous tissue. This latter forms nearly the whole of all the firm investing membranes ; viz. the muscular fascia?, the periosteum, the investments of the various glands (such as the tunica albuginea testis, the capsule of the kidney, &c), the investing sheath of the nerves (peri- neurium), and of various organs, as the penis and the eye (sheath of the corpora cavernosa and spongiosum, sclerotic and choroid). Into all these parts, however, the elastic tissue enters in greater or less proportion. The