Nervous System. THE Nervous System is composed: i. of a series of connected central organs, called, collectively, the cerebrospinal centre or axis', 2. of the ganglia; and 3. of the nerves. The Cerebro-Spinal Centre consists of two parts, the spinal cord and the ence- phalon : the latter may be subdivided into the cerebrum, the cerebellum, the pons Varolii, and the medulla oblongata. The Spinal Cord and its Membranes. Dissection. To dissect the cord and its membranes, it will be necessary to lay open the whole length of the spinal canal. For this purpose, the muscles must be separated from the vertebral grooves, so as to expose the spinous processes and laminae of the vertebra?; and the latter must be sawn through on each side, close to the roots of the transverse processes, from the thud or fourth cervical vertebra, above, to the sacrum below. The vertebral arches having been displaced, by means of a chisel, and the separate fragments removed, the dura mater will be exposed, covered by a plexus of veins and a quantity of loose areolar tissue, often infiltrated with serous fluid. The arches of the upper vertebra? are best divided by means of a strong pair of cutting bone-forceps. Membranes of the Cord. The membranes which envelope the spinal cord are three in number. The most external is the dura mater, a strong fibrous membrane, which forms a loose sheath around the cord. The most internal is the pia mater, a cellulo-vascular membrane, which closely invests the entire surface of the cord. Between the two is the arachnoid membrane, an intermediate serous sac, which envelopes the cord, and is then reflected on the inner surface of the dura mater. The Dura Mater of the cord, continuous with that which invests the brain, is a loose sheath which surrounds the cord, and is separated from the bony walls of the spinal canal by a quantity of loose areolar adipose tissue, and a plexus of veins. It is attached to the circumference of the foramen magnum, and to the posterior common ligament, throughout the whole length of the spinal canal, by fibrous tissue; and extends, below, as far as the top of the sacrum ; but, beyond this point, it is impervious, being continued, in the form of aslender cord, to the back of the coccyx, where it blends with the periosteum. This sheath is much larger than is necessary for its contents, and its size is greater in the cervical and lumbar regions than in the dorsal. Its inner surface is smooth, covered by a layer of polygonal cells; and on each side may be seen the double openings which trans- mit the two roots of the corresponding spinal nerve, the fibrous layer of the dura mater being continued in the form of a tubular prolongation on them as they issue from these apertures. These prolongations of the dura mater are short in the upper part of the spine, but become gradually longer below, forming a number of tubes of fibrous membrane, which enclose the sacral nerves, and are contained in the spinal canal. The chief peculiarities of the dura mater of the cord, as compared with that investing the brain, are the following : H H