CXXXL DEVELOPMENT OF SPINE. LXXXIV.). The chorda dorsalis becomes gradually atrophied, except at the part corresponding to the intervals between the permanent vertebra^ where it forms the intervertebral discs. Fig. LXXXIII.—Transverse section through the dorsal region of an embryo-chick, end of third day (from Foster and Balfour). Am, amnion ; mp, muscle plate: cv, cardinal vein ; Ao, dorsal aorta at the point where its two roots begin to join ; Ch, notochord ; Wcl, Wolffian duct; Wb, commencement of formation of Wolffian body ; ep, epiblast; so, somatopleure ; hy, hypoblast. The section passes through the place where the alimentary canal (hi/) communicates with the yolk-sac. m c The steps by which the various parts of the spinal column are com- posed are complicated, and in several points they are not at present clearly made out. Thus the notochord is usually regarded, and is described above, as being formed out of the mesoblast; but this is denied by several authors, who refer its origin to the epiblast, and who deny that any carti- laginous change takes place in it. These authors would thus refer the intervertebral discs exclusively to the protovertebrse, while the notochord would, according to them, disappear entirely in after life. What is usually admitted is shortly as follows : The protovertebra3, derived from the mesoblast, increase in size and grow up around the notochord, so as to enclose it completely. They then become divided or segmented each into two portions, the upper segment of the lower proto- vertebra coalescing with the lower segment of the upper to form the corresponding segment of the whole trunk or somatome. From each of these somatomes are to be derived (i) the basis of the vertebra and, as proceeding from this, the bony framework of the portion of the skeleton to which the vertebra serves as a centre; (2) the muscular plates which sur- round the vertebra, and from which the muscular elements extend into the limbs ; (3) the vascular system ; (4) the ganglia which lie in the inter- vertebral foramina, and the nerves which proceed from these ganglia, and