cxlii GENEEAL ANATOMY. The sudoriferous and sebaceous glands are also formed from the epithelial layer about the fifth and sixth month respectively. The mammary gland is also formed from the deeper layer of the epithelium. Its first rudiment is seen about the third month, in the form of a small projection, from which others radiate, and which then give rise to the glandular follicles and ducts. The development of the former, however, remains imperfect, except in the adult female, and especially after pregnancy. In all these glands the vessels, and probably also the connective tissue, are furnished from the mesoblast. Development of the limbs.—The upper and lower limbs begin to project, as buds, from the anterior and posterior part of the embryo about the fourth week. These buds are formed by a projection of the somatopleure covered by the epiblast. The division of the terminal portion of the bud into fingers or toes is early indicated, and soon a notch or constric- tion marks the future separation of the hand or foot from the forearm. Next a similar groove appears at the site of the elbow or knee. The in- different tissue, or blastema, of which the whole projection is at first composed, is differentiated into muscle and cartilage before the appearance of any internal cleft for the joints between the chief bones. The muscles become visible about the seventh or eighth week. The source of their development is not completely determined for the muscles of the limbs. The vertebral muscles appear to be developed from the 'mus- cular laminae' of the primitive vertebral discs (fig. LXXIIL, 13), and the muscles of the neek and jaws, as well as those which enclose the cavities of the thorax and abdomen, are also formed from the same source. They do not meet in the middle line of the body till about the fourth month. The cutaneous muscles are developed from the cutaneous portion of the middle blastodermic layer. Development of the heart.—The first trace of the heart is found about the tenth or twelfth day, in the form of a mass of cells proceeding from the middle layer of the blastodermic vesicle and the anterior wall of the intestinal cavity. It soon forms a bent tube lying in front of the embryo, and only connected to it by its vessels (figs. LXXVIL, LXXXIL). The heart is situated at first at the anterior end of the embryo, lying opposite the two last cerebral vesicles. As the head is developed, the heart falls as it were backwards to the lower part of the neck, and then to the thorax. It fills the whole thoracic cavity about the second month. As the lungs and thoracic parietes form, the heart assumes its permanent position. The tube is soon curved into the shape of the letter S, the arterial part being situated above, in front and to the right, the venous below, behind and to the left. Traces of the auricular appendages are early perceptible on the venous part. Then the walls of the ventri- cular portion begin to thicken in regard to the auricular part. The ventricle is separated by a constriction from the dilated part above, which corresponds to the aortic sinus or bulb (fig. XCIL, a, i), and from the posterior or auricular dilatation. Then each of these three parts becomes subdivided by a septum. After the completion of the ventricular septum the auricular is commenced. The septum ventriculorum is at first