NERVOUS SYSTEM. 494 is said to be larger in the child than in the adult, and in the female than in the male. Its base is connected with the cerebrum by some transverse commissural fibres, derived from the posterior commissure ; and by four slender peduncles, formed of medullary fibres. Of these, the two superior pass forwards upon the upper and inner margin of the optic thalami to the anterior crura of the fornix, with which they become blended. The inferior peduncles pass vertically downwards from the base of the pineal gland, along the back part of the inner surface of the thalami, and are only seen on a vertical section through the gland. The pineal gland is very vascular, and consists chiefly of grey matter, with a few medullary fibres. In its base is a small cavity, said by some to communicate with that of the third ventricle. It contains a transparent viscid fluid, and occasionally a quantity of sabulous matter, named acervulus cerebri, composed of phosphate and carbonate of lime, phosphate of magnesia and ammonia, with a little animal matter. These concretions are almost constant in their existence, and are found at all periods of life. When this body is solid, the sabulous matter is found upon its surface, and occasionally upon its peduncles. On the removal of the pineal gland and adjacent portion of pia mater, the corpora quadrigemma are exposed. The corpora or tubercula quadrigemina {optic lobes) are four rounded emi- nences placed in pairs, two in front, and two behind, and separated from one another by a crucial depression. They are situated immediately behind the third ventricle and posterior commissure, beneath the posterior border of the corpus callosum, and above the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum. The anterior pair, the nates, are the larger, oblong from before backwards, and of a grey colour. The posterior pair, the testes, are hemispherical in form, and lighter in colour than the preceding. They are connected on each side with the thalamus opticus, and commencement of the optic tracts, by means of two white prominent bands termed brachia. Those connecting the nates with the thalamus (brachia anteriora) are the larger, and pass obliquely outwards. Those connecting the testes with the thalamus, are called the brachia posteriora. Both pairs, in the adult, are quite solid, being composed of white matter externally, and grey matter within. These bodies are larger in the lower animals than in man. In fishes, reptiles, and birds, they are only two in number, are called the optic lobes, from their connec- tion with the optic nerves, and are hollow in their interior ; but in mammalia, they are four in number, as in man, and quite solid. In the human foetus, they are developed at a very early period, and form a large proportion of the cerebral mass ; at first, they are only two in number, as in the lower mammalia, and hollow in their interior. These bodies receive, from below, white fibres from the olivary fasciculus or fillet; they are also connected with the cerebellum, by means of a large white cord on each side, the processus ad testes, or superior peduncles of the cerebellum, which pass up to the thalami from the tubercula quadrigemina. The valve of Vieussens is a thin translucent lamina of medullary substance, stretched between the two processus e cerebello ad testes; it covers in the canal leading from the third to the fourth ventricle, forming part of the roof of the latter cavity. It is narrow in front, where it is connected with the testes; and broader behind, at its connection with the vermiform process of the cerebellum. A slight elevated ridge, the framulum, descends upon the upper part of the valve from the corpora quadrigemina, and on either side of it may be seen the fibres of origin of the fourth nerve. Its lower half is covered by a thin transversely-grooved lobule of grey matter prolonged from the anterior border of the cerebellum; this is called by the Italian anatomists the linguetta laminosa. The corpora geniculata are two small flattened, oblong masses, placed on the outer side of the corpora quadrigemina, and on the under and back part of each optic thalamus, and named, from their position, corpus geniculatum externum and internum. They are placed one on the outer and one on the inner side of each