OF THE BACK. cesses to the spinous processes of the vertebrae, extending from the lower part of the dorsal region to the upper part of the cervical. The Semispinalis Dorsi consists of thin, narrow, fleshy fasciculi, interposed between tendons of considerable length. It arises by a series of small tendons from the transverse processes of the lower dorsal vertebrae, from the tenth or eleventh to the fifth or sixth; and is inserted, by five or six tendons, into the spinous processes of the upper four dorsal and lower two cervical vertebra. The Semispinalis Colli, thicker than the preceding, arises by a series of tendinous and fleshy points from the transverse processes of the upper four dorsal vertebrae and from the articular processes of the lower four cervical vertebrae : and is inserted into the spinous processes of four cervical vertebrae, from the axis to the fifth cervical. The fasciculus connected with the axis is the largest, and chiefly muscular in structure. Relations. By their superficial surface, from below upwards, with the Longis- simus dorsi, Spinalis dorsi, Splenitis, Com plexus, the profunda cervicis artery, the princeps cervicis artery, and the posterior cervical plexus of nerves, By their deep surface, with the Multificlus spinas. The Multifidus Spinas consists of a number of fleshy and tendinous fasciculi, which fill up the groove on either side of the spinous processes of the vertebrae, from the sacrum to the axis. In the sacral region, these fasciculi arise from the back of the sacrum, as low as the fourth sacral foramen, and from the aponeurosis of origin of the Erector spinas; in the iliac region, from the inner surface of the posterior superior spine of the ilium, and posterior sacro-iliac ligaments ; in the lumbar and cervical regions, from the articular processes; and in the dorsal region, from the transverse processes. Each fasciculus, ascending obliquely upwards and inwards, is inserted into the lamina and whole length of the spinous process of one of the vertebrae above. These fasciculi vary in length : the most superficial, the longest, pass from one vertebra to the third or fourth above ; those next in order pass from one vertebra to the second or third above; whilst the deepest connect two contiguous vertebrae. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Longissimus dorsi, Spinalis dorsi, Semispinalis dorsi, and Semispinalis colli. By its deep surface, with the laminae and spinous processes of the vertebrae, and with the Botatores spinae in the dorsal region. The Rotatores Spines are found only in the dorsal region of the spine, beneath the Multifidus spinae; they are eleven in number on each side. Each muscle is small and somewhat quadrilateral in form ; it arises from the upper and back part of the transverse process, and is inserted into the lower border and outer surface of the lamina of the vertebra above, the fibres extending as far inwards as the root of the spinous process. The first is found between the first and second dorsal; the last, between the eleventh and twelfth. Sometimes the number of these muscles is diminished by the absence of one or more from the upper or lower end. The Suprasp)inales consist of a series of fleshy bands; which lie on the spinous processes in the cervical region of the spine. The Interspinals are short muscular fasciculi, placed in pairs between the spinous processes of the contiguous vertebrae. In the cervical region, they are most distinct, and consist of six pairs, the first being situated between the axis and third vertebra, and the last between the last cervical and the first dorsal. They are small narrow bundles, attached, above and below, to the apices of the spinous processes. In the dorsal region, they are found between the first and second vertebrae, and occasionally between the second and third; and below, between the eleventh and twelfth. In the lumbar region, there are four pairs of these muscles in the intervals between the five lumbar vertebrae. There is also occasionally one in the interspinous space, between the last dorsal and first lumbar, and between the fifth lumbar and the sacrum. The Extensor Coccygis is a slender muscular fasciculus, occasionally present,