656 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. The mucoid membrane is covered with columnar epithelium, and secretes an abundance of thick viscid mucous ; it is continuous through the hepatic duct with the mucous membrane lining the ducts of the liver, and through the ductus com- munis choledochus with the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal. The Biliary Duels are, the hepatic, the cystic, and the ductus communis choledochus. The hepatic duct is formed of two trunks of nearly equal size, which issue from the liver at the transverse fissure, one from the right, the other from the left lobe ; these unite and pass downwards and to the right for about an inch and a half^ to join at an acute angle with the cystic duct, and so form the ductus communis choledochus. The cystic duct, the smallest of the three biliary ducts, is about an inch in length. It passes obliquely downwards and to the left from the neck of the gall-bladder,' 37o.—The Parts in the Gastro-hepatic Omentum, its anterior Layer being removed. and joins the hepatic duct to form the common duct. It lies in the gastro-hepatic omentum in front of the vena cava, the cystic artery lying to its left side. The mucous membrane lining its interior is thrown into a series of crescentic folds, from five to twelve in number, which project into the duct in regular succession, and are directed obliquely round the tube, presenting much the appearance of a continuous spiral valve. They exist only in the human subject. When the duct has been dis- tended, the interspaces between the folds are dilated, so as to give to its exterior a sacculated appearance. The ductus communis choledochus, the largest of the three, is the common excre- tory duct of the liver and gall-bladder. It is about three inches in length, of the diameter of a goose-quill, and formed by the junction of the cystic and hepatic ducts. It descends along the right border of the lesser omentum behind the first portion of the duodenum, in front of the venae porta?, and to the right of the hepatic artery; it then passes between the pancreas and descending portion of the duodenum, and, running for a short distance along the right side of the pancreatic duct, near its termination, passes with it obliquely between the mucous and muscular coats, the two opening by a common orifice upon the summit of a papilla, situated at the inner side of the descending portion of the duodenum, a little below its middle. Structure.—The coats of the biliary ducts are, an external or fibrous, and an in-