159 TEMPORO-MAXILLARY. of the condyles of the occipital bone. In the triangular interval left between these ligaments and the margin of the foramen magnum, a third strong ligamentous band (ligamentum suspensorium) may be seen, which passes almost perpendicularly from the apex of the odontoid process to the anterior margin of the foramen, being intimately blended with the anterior occipito-atloid ligament, and upper fasciculus of the transverse ligament of the atlas. Actions. The odontoid ligaments serve to limit the extent to which rotation of the cranium may be carried; hence they have received the name of check ligaments. V. Temporo-Maxillary Articulation. This is an arthrodial joint; the parts entering into its formation are, on each side, the anterior part of the glenoid cavity of the temporal bone and the eminentia articularis above; with the condyle of the lower jaw below. The ligaments are the following : External Lateral. Stylo-maxillary. Internal Lateral. Capsular. Interarticular Fibre-Cartilage. The External Lateral Ligament (fig. 121) is a short, thin, and narrow fasci- culus attached above to the outer surface of the zygoma and to the rough tubercle on its lower border; below, to the outer surface and posterior border of the neck 121.—Temporo-Maxillary Articulation. External View. of the lower jaw. This ligament is broader above than below ; its fibres are placed parallel with one another, and directed obliquely downwards and back- wards. Externally, it is covered by the parotid gland, and by the integument. Internally, it is in relation with the interarticular fibro-cartilage and the synovial membrane. The Lnternal Lateral Ligament (fig. 122) is a long, thin, and loose band, which is attached above to the spinous process of the sphenoid bone, and becoming broader as it descends, is inserted into the inner margin of the dental foramen. Its outer surface is in relation above with the External pterygoid muscle; lower down it is separated from the neck of the condyle by the internal maxillary artery; and still