cxxxiii DEVELOPMENT OF SKULL. sphenoid, the petrous and mastoid portions of the temporal, the ethmoid bone, and the septum nasi. As the cerebral extremity of the foetus grows it becomes twice bent forwards on its own axis (fig. LXXXVL). The upper or posterior curva- ture is called the cerebral; the lower or anterior, the frontal protuberance. From the anterior end of the chorda dorsalis four prolongations proceed on either side, and meet in the middle line (figs. LXXVIL, LXXXV., 4, 7, 8, 9). These are the pharyngeal arches, and in them, and in the frontal protuberance, certain bones are developed, which are called secondary bones, to distinguish them from those above enumerated, which are formed from the primitive cranium itself. Between the first pharyngeal arch and Ij the frontal protuberance is situated the buccal depression, which after- wards becomes the cavity of the mouth, or more properly of the fauces, I Fig. LXXXV.—Face of an embryo of 25 to 28 days, magnified 15 times. \, frontal promi- j nence. 2, 3, right and left olfactory fossae. 4, inferior maxillary tubercles, united in the middle line. 5, superior maxillary tubercles. 6, mouth, or fauces. J, second pharyngeal arch. 8, third. 9, fourth. 10, primitive ocular vesicle, u, primitive auditory vesicle. for the mouth itself is developed from the epiblast growing inwards, whilst these pharyngeal arches are formed from the mesoblast, lined internally by the hypoblast, the reflection of which membrane closes the cavity above in the early state. The frontal protuberance next gives off two lateral parts (lateral frontal protuberances), on each of which a depression is formed, the olfactory fossa, bounded on either side by the internal and external nasal processes. There is a groove external to the external nasal process, which afterwards is transformed into the lachrymal canal, and another groove leading from the olfactory fossa to the buccal cavity—the nasal groove. The first pharyngeal arch divides at its anterior extremity into two parts—a superior and inferior maxillary protuberance. The latter unites very early to its fellow of the opposite side to form the lower jaw. The superior maxillary protuberances are displaced outwards and unite to the external nasal process; from this part are developed the internal plate of