48S NEKVOUS SYSTEM. taenia seraicircularis, thalamus opticus, choroid plexus, corpus fimbriatum, and fornix. The anterior cornu is triangular in form, passing outwards into the anterior lobe, and curving round the anterior extremity of the corpus striatum. It is bounded above and in front, by the corpus callosum; behind, by the corpus striatum. The posterior cornu, or digital cavity, curves backwards into the substance of the posterior lobe, its direction being' backwards and outwards, and then inwards. On its floor is seen a longitudinal eminence, which corresponds with a deep sulcus, between two convolutions : this is called the hippocampus minor. Between the middle and posterior horns a smooth eminence is observed, which varies con- siderably in size in different subjects. It is called the eminentia collateralis. The corpus striatum has received its name from the striped appearance which its section presents, in consequence of diverging white fibres being mixed with the Fig. 270.—Transverse vertical section of the Brain, through the fore part of the Foramen Magnum, looked at from the front. After Hirsclifeld and Leveille. 1. Corpus callosum iu relation with the falx and the cerebral hemispheres. 2, Ventricle of the corpus callosum. 8. Lateral Ventricles. 4. Cornu Ammonis, white externally and grey internally. o. Cerebellum, separated from the cerebrum by the tentorium. 6. Section through the corpora quadrigemina, aqueduct of Sylvius, and Pons Varolii. 7. Medulla oblongata with the vertebral arteries and the anterior spinal branch in relation with it. 8. Auditory nerve, passing into the meatus auditorius internus. 9. Pneumofiastric nerve passing through the posterior lacerated foramen. 10. Ninth nerve, passing through the anterior condyloid foramen. 11, 12. Grey and white substance of ths convolutions. The fibres of the corpus callosum are shown radiat- ing through the white to the grey substance. grey matter which forms the greater part of its substance. The intra ventricular portion is a large pear-shaped mass, of a grey colour externally; its broad ex- tremity is directed forwards, into the fore part of the body, and anterior cornu of the lateral ventricle: its narrow end is directed outwards and backwards, being separated from its fellow by the thalami optici : it is covered by the serous lining of the cavity, and crossed by some veins of considerable size. The extra ventricular portion is imbedded in the white substance of the hemisphere.