THE PANCREAS. 657 ternal or raucous. The fibrous coat is composed of a strong areolar fibrous tissue. The mucous coat is continuous with the lining membrane of the hepatic ducts and gall-bladder, and also with that of the duodenum. It is provided with numerous glands, the orifices of which are scattered irregularly in the larger ducts, but in the smaller hepatic ducts are disposed in two longitudinal rows, one on each side of the vessel. These glands are of two kinds. Some are ramified tubes, which occasionally anastomose, and from the sides of which saccular dilatations are given off; others are small clustered cellular glands, which open either separately into the hepatic duct, or into the ducts of the tubular glands. The Panceeas. Dissection.—The pancreas may be exposed for dissection in three different ways: 1. By raising the liver, drawing down the stomach, and tearing through the gastro-hepatic omentum and the ascending layer of the transverse meso-colon. 2. By raising the stomach, the arch of the colon, and great omentum, and then dividing the inferior layer of the trans- verse meso-colon. 3. By dividing the two layers of peritoneum, which descend from the great curvature of the stomach to form the great omentum ; turning the stomach upwards, and then cutting through the ascending layer of the transverse meso-colon. (See fig. 345, p. 629.) The Pancreas (jrar-Kpeac, all flesh) is a conglomerate gland, analogous in its struc- ture to the salivary glands. In shape it is transversely oblong, flattened from before backwards, and bears some resemblance to a dog's tongue, its right extremity being broad and presenting a sort of angular bend from above downwards, called the head, whilst its left extremity gradually tapers to form the tail, the intermediate portion being called the body. It is situated transversely across the posterior wall of the abdomen, at the back of the epigastric and both hypochondriac regions. Its length varies from six to eight inches, its breadth is an inch and a half, and its thickness 371.—The Pancreas and its Relations. from half an inch to an inch, being greater at its right extremity and along its upper border. Its weight varies from two to three and a half ounces, but it may reach six ounces. The right extremity or head of the pancreas (fig. 371) is curved upon itself from above downwards, and is embraced by the concavity of the duodenum. The common bile-d uct descends behind, between the duodenum and pancreas ] and the pancreatico- u u