739 THE OVARIES. The Ovaries (testes muliebres, Galen) are analogous to the testes in the male. They are oval-shaped bodies, of an elongated form, flattened from above downwards, situated one on each side of the uterus, in the posterior part of the broad ligament behind and below the Fallopian tubes. Each ovary is connected, by its anterior margin, to the broad ligaments; by its inner extremity to the uterus by a proper 42 r.—The Uterus and its Appendages. Anterior View. 422.—Section of the Ovary of a Virgin, showing the Stroma and Graatian Vesicles. ligament, the ligament of the ovary ; and by its outer end to the fimbriated ex- tremity of the Fallopian tube by a short ligamentous cord. The ovaries are of a whitish colour, and present either a smooth or puckered uneven surface. They are each about an inch and a half in length, three quarters of an inch in width, and about a third of an inch thick; and weigh from one to two drachms. The surfaces and posterior convex border are free, the anterior straight border being attached to the broad ligament. Structure. The ovary is invested by peritoneum, excepting along its anterior attached margin; beneath this, is the proper fibrous covering of the organ, the tunica albuginea, which is extremely dense and firm in structure, and encloses a peculiar soft fibrous tissue, or stroma, abundantly supplied with blood-vessels (fig. 422). Embedded in the meshes of this tissue are numerous small, round, transparent vesicles, in various stages of development; they are the Graafian vesicles, the ovisacs containing the ova. In women who have not borne children, they vary in number from ten to fifteen or twenty; and in size from a pin's head to a pea; but Dr. Martin Barry has shown that a large number of micro- scopic ovisacs exist in the parenchyma of the organ, few of which produce ova. These vesicles have thin, transparent walls, and are filled with a clear colour- less, albuminous fluid. The Graafian vesicles are, during their early development, small, and deeply seated in the substance of the ovary; as they enlarge, they approach the surface • and, when mature, form small projections on the exterior of the ovary beneath the peritoneum. Each vesicle consists of an B 2 423. —Section of the Graafian Vesicle. After Von Baer. CreaT'ZeaS I'tT-Jj. S~rcn.' erihe cvury M'.r. ti^-i vessels