DEVELOPMENT OF THE NERVOUS CENTRES. cxxxv if, besides this, the intermaxillary bone remains ununited, it usually is carried forward at the end of the vomer, forming the double hare-lip, com- plicated with projection of the intermaxillary bone ; if, added to this, the palatine lamellse also remain ununited, we have the complete degree of fissured palate and hare-lip. Fissure of the soft palate only, or of the soft and a portion of the hard, represent various degrees of non-union of the palatine lamella?. Development of the nervous centres.— The medullary grove above de- scribed (p. cxxii.) presents about the third week three dilatations at its upper part, separated by two constrictions, and at its posterior part another dilatation called the rhomboidal sinus. Soon afterwards the groove be- comes a closed canal (medullary canal), and a soft blastema is deposited in it, which lines it, corresponding to its dilatations, and, like it, assuming a tubular form. This is the rudiment of the cerebro-spinal axis. As the embryo grows, its cephalic part becomes more curved, and the three dila- tations in the anterior end of the primitive cerebro-spinal axis become Fig. LXXXVI.—Longitudinal section of the head of an embryo four weeks old, seen from the inside, i, ocular vesicle. 2, optic nerve flattened out. 3, fore brain. 4, intermediary brain. 5, middle brain. 6, hinder brain. 7, after brain. 8, anterior portion of the tentorium cerebelli. 9, its lateral portion intervening between Nos. 4 and 5. 10, the pharyngeal curve, bent into a cul-de-sac. 11, the auditory vesicle. 3 vesicles distinctly separated from each other (fig. LXXXVI.). These are the cerebral vesicles—anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior cerebral vesicle (situated at this period quite below the middle vesicle) is the rudi- ment of the lateral and third ventricles, and of the parts surrounding them —viz., the cerebral hemispheres, optic thalami, corpora striata, corpus callosum, fornix, and all the parts Avhich form the floor of the third ventricle. The middle vesicle represents the aqueduct of Sylvius with the corpora quadrigemina, and the crura cerebri. The posterior vesicle is developed into the fourth ventricle, and its walls form the cerebellum, Pons Varolii, medulla oblongata, and parts in the floor of the fourth ventricle. The antero-posterior fissure which indicates the division of the brain into two halves appears early, and the primary anterior and posterior cerebral vesicles are also soon divided by a transverse fissure into two parts, so as to constitute five permanent rudiments of the brain and medulla oblongata. The middle primary vesicle remains undivided. The anterior part of the anterior cerebral vesicle (Vorderhirn, fore brain, prosencephalon) constitutes the cerebral hemispheres, corpus callosum, corpora striata, fornix, lateral ventricles, and olfactory nerves.