cxxxix DEVELOPMENT OF THE EYE. and arachnoid as developed from the cerebral vesicles, and formed in the position which they permanently occupy. Development of the eye,—The nervous elements and the non-vascular parts of the eye are developed from the epiblast, and the vascular portions from the mesoblast, but the method of development is somewhat complicated. The essential portions of the eye—i.e. the retina and the parts immediately connected writh it—are an outgrowth from the rudi- mentary brain (primitive ocular vesicle), and this outgrowth is met by an ingrowth or covering from the common epidermic or corneous layer of the epiblast, out of which the lens, conjunctiva, and corneal epithelium are developed. The primitive ocular vesicle is at first an open cavity communicating by a hollow stalk wTith the general cavity of the Zwischenhirn, or inter- mediary brain—the posterior division of the anterior cerebral vesicle. As development advances the hollow stalk becomes solid, and thus the optic nerve is formed, receiving, however, in a way to be presently explained, mesoblastic elements for the formation of its central artery and connective tissue. The lens is formed by a thickening of the epidermic layer, opposite to the primitive ocular vesicle, by which that vesicle is at first depressed, and then reversed in the manner indicated by the annexed figures ; so that the cavity of the primitive ocular vesicle is finally obliterated. As this process takes place, a secondary cavity (secondary ocular vesicle) is formed between the rudimentary lens and the coats of the reversed primi- tive vesicle, and in this space the vitreous humour is secreted. Fig. LXXXIX.—Diagram of development of the lens. A B 0, different stages of development. I, epidermic layer. 2, thickening of this layer. 3, crystalline depression. 4, primitive ocular vesicle, its anterior part pushed hack by the crystalline depression. 5, posterior part of the primitive ocular vesicle, forming the external layer of the secondary ocular vesicle. 6, point of separation between the lens and the epidermic layer. 7, cavity of the secondary ocular vesicle, occupied by the vitreous. The lens is at first a mere depression in the epidermic layer. When this is closed the lens becomes a vesicle, formed of epithelial cells, which grow and fill its cavity, becoming gradually transformed into fibres. It is at first surrounded by a vascular membrane—the vascular capsule of the lens—which is connected with the termination of the temporary artery (hyaloid) that forms the continuation of the central artery of the retina through the vitreous chamber. This vascular capsule of the crystalline lens forms the membrana pupillaris (described on p. 582), and also at- taches the borders of the iris to the capsule of the lens. It disappears about the seventh month. These vascular elements are introduced into the globe of the eye from