THE STOMACH. impeded. The heart is also displaced upwards; hence the oppression in this region, and the palpitation experienced in extreme distension of the stomach. Pressure from without, as from tight lacing, pushes the stomach down towards the pelvis. In disease, also, the position and connections of the organs may be greatly changed, from the accumulation of fluid in the chest or abdomen, or from alteration in size of any of the surrounding viscera. On looking into the pyloric end of the stomach, the mucous membrane is found projecting inwards in the front of a circular fold, the pylorus, leaving a narrow circular aperture, about half an inch in diameter, by which the stomach communi- cates with the duodenum. The pylorus is formed by a reduplication of the mucous membrane of the stomach, containing numerous muscular fibres, wThich are aggregated into a thick 346.—The Mucous Membrane of the Stomach and Duodenum with the Bile Ducts. circular ring, the longitudinal fibres and serous membrane being continued over the fold without assisting in its formation. The aperture is occasionally oval. Sometimes, the circular fold is replaced by two crescentic folds, placed, one above, and the other below, the pyloric orifice ; and, more rarely, there is only one crescentic fold. Structure,—The stomach consists of four coats : a serous, a muscular, a cellular, and a mucous coat, together with vessels and nerves. The serous coat is derived from the peritoneum, and covers the entire surface of the organ, excepting along the greater and lesser curvatures, at the points of attach- ment of the greater and lesser omenta; here the two layers of peritoneum leave a small triangular space, along which the nutrient vessels and nerves pass. The muscular coat (fig. 347) is situated immediately beneath the serous covering. It consists of three sets of fibres : longitudinal, circular, and oblique. The longitudinal fibres are most superficial ; they are continuous with the longi- tudinal fibres of the oesophagus, radiating in a stellate manner from the cardiac