619 THE PALATE. The hard palate is bounded in front and at the sides by the alveolar arches and gums; behind, it is continuous with the soft palate. It is covered by a dense structure formed by the periosteum and mucous membrane of the mouth, which are intimately adherent together. Along the middle line is a linear ridge or raphe, which termi- nates anteriorly in a small papilla, corresponding with the inferior opening of the anterior palatine fossa. This papilla receives filaments from the naso-palatine and anterior palatine nerves. On either side and in front of the raphe, the mucous mem- brane is thick, pale in colour, and corrugated; behind, it is thin, smooth, and of a deeper colour : it is covered with squamous epithelium, and furnished with numerous glands (palatal glands), which lie between the mucous membrane and the surface of the bone. The soft palate {velum pendulum palatV) is a moveable fold, suspended from the posterior border of the hard palate, and forming an incomplete septum between the mouth and pharynx. It consists of a fold of mucous membrane, enclosing muscular fibres, an aponeurosis, vessels, nerves, and mucous glands. When occupying its usual position (i. e. relaxed and pendent), its anterior surface is concave, continuous with roof of the mouth, and marked by a median ridge or raphe, which indicates its original separation into two lateral halves. Its posterior surface is convex, and continuous with the mucous membrane covering the floor of the posterior nares. Its upper border is attached to the posterior margin of the hard palate, and its sides are blended with the pharynx. Its lower border is free. Hanging from the middle of its lower border is a small conical-shaped pendulous process, the uvula; and arching outwards and downwards from the base of the uvula on each side, are two curved folds of mucous membrane, containing muscular fibres, called the arches or pillars of the soft palate. The anterior pillar runs downwards, outwards, and forwards to the side of the base of the tongue, and is formed by the projection of the Palato-glossus muscle, covered by mucous membrane. The posterior pillars are nearer to each other and larger than the anterior; they run downwards, outwards, and backwards to the sides of the pharynx, and are formed by the projection of the Palato-pharyngei muscles, covered by mucous mem- brane. The anterior and posterior pillars are separated below by a triangular interval, in which the tonsil is lodged. The space left between the arches of the palate on the two sides is called the isthmus of the fauces. It is bounded above by the free margin of the palate ; below by the tongue; and on each side by the pillars of the soft palate and tonsils. The mucous membrane of the soft palate is thin, and covered with squamous epithelium on both surfaces, excepting near the orifice of the Eustachian tube, where it is columnar and ciliated. The palatine glands form a continuous layer on its pos- terior surface and round the uvula. The aponeurosis of the soft palate is a thin but firm fibrous layer attached above to the hard palate, and becoming thinner towards the free margin of the velum. It is blended with the aponeurotic tendon of the Tensor palati muscle. The muscles of the soft palate are five on each side : the Levator palati, Tensor palati, Palato-glossus, Palato-pharyngeus, and Azygos uvulse (see p. 232). The tonsils (amygdalce) are two glandular organs, situated one on each side of the fauces, between the anterior and posterior pillars of the soft palate. They are of a rounded form, and vary considerably in size in different individuals. Externally the tonsil is in relation with the inner surface of the Superior constrictor (beyond which are the internal carotid and ascending pharyngeal arteries), and corresponds to the angle of the lower jaw. Its inner surface presents from twelve to fifteen orifices, leading into small recesses, from which numerous follicles branch out into the substance of the gland. These follicles are lined by a continuation of the mucous membrane of the pharynx, covered with epithelium, their walls being formed by a layer of closed capsules embedded in the submucous tissue. These capsules are analogous to those of Peyer's glands ; they contain a thick greyish secretion. The arteries supplying the tonsil are the dorsalis linguae from the lingual, the