GENERAL ANATOMY. xcvi smallest interspaces, are found in the lungs and in the choroid coat of the eye. In the liver and lung, the interspaces are smaller than the capillary vessels themselves. In the kidney, in the conjunctiva, and in the cutis, the interspaces are from three to four times as large as the capillaries which form them; and in the brain from eight to ten times as large as the capillaries, in their long diameter, and from four to six times as large in their transverse diameter. In the cellular coat of the arteries, the width of the meshes is ten times that of the capillary vessels. As a general rule, the more active the function of an organ is, the closer is its capillary net, and the larger its supply of blood, the network being very narrow in all growing parts, in the glands, and in the mucous membranes; wider in bones and ligaments, which are comparatively inactive; and nearly altogether absent in tendons and carti- lages, in which very little organic change occurs after their formation. Structure.—-The walls of the capillaries consist of a fine, transparent, homogeneous membrane, in which are embedded, at intervals, minute oval corpuscles. When stained with nitrate of silver, the edges which bound the epithelial cells are brought into view (fig. LV.). These cells are of large size, and of an irregular polygonal or fusiform shape, each containing one of the nuclei seen before the application of the reagent. The whole capillary wall seems formed of these cells. Between their edges, at various points of their meeting, roundish dark spots are sometimes seen, which have been described as stomata, and have been believed to be the mechanism by which fluid transudes from and possibly into the vessel. But this view, though probable, is not universally accepted. In many situations a delicate sheath or envelope of fine connective tissue is found around the simple capillary tube ; and in other places, especially in the glands, the capillaries are invested with retiform lymphatic tissue. In the largest capillaries (which ought perhaps to be described rather as the smallest arteries) traces of an epithelial lining and of circular transverse fibres are to be seen. Veins are composed of three coats, internal, middle, and external, as the arteries are ; and these coats are, with the necessary modifications, analogous to the coats of the arteries—the internal being the epithelial, the middle the fibrous, and the external the connective or areolar. The main difference between the veins and the arteries is in the com- parative weakness of the middle coat of the former; and to this it is due that the veins do not stand open when divided, as the arteries do ; and that they are passive rather than active organs of the circulation. In the veins immediately above the capillaries the three coats are hardly to be distinguished. The epithelium is supported on an outer membrane of nucleated connective tissue, separable into two layers, the outer of which is the thicker, the Fig". LV. —■ Capillaries from the mesentery of a guinea-pig after treat- ment with solution of nitrate of silver, a, cells, b, their nuclei.