lxxxii GENERAL ANATOMY. granular nuclei may be demonstrated in this connective tissue, which has received its name from its peculiar gelatinous consistence. Origin of the Spinal Nerves in the Cord.—The posterior roots are larger than the anterior; but their component filaments are finer and more delicate. The}r are all attached immediately to the posterior columns only, and decussate with each other in all directions through the columns ; but some of them pass through the grey substance into both the lateral and anterior columns. Within the grey substance they run longitudinally upwards and downwards ; transversely through the posterior commissure to the opposite side ; and into the anterior cornu of their own side. (Figs. XLIII. XLIV.) The anterior roots are attached exclusively to the anterior column, or rather to the anterior part of the antero-lateral columns, for there is no antero-lateral fissure dividing the anterior from the lateral col umn. Within the grey substance the fibrils cross each other, and diverge in all drrec- tions, like the expanded hairs of a brush (figs. XLIII. XLIV.), some of them running more or less longitudinally upwards and downwards; and others decussating with those of the opposite side through the anterior commissure in front of the central canal. All the fibres of both roots of the nerves proceed through the white columns into the grey substance, with, perhaps, the exception of some which appear to run longitudinally in the posterior columns ; but whether these latter fibres of the posterior roots ultimately enter the grey sub- stance of the cord, after a very oblique course, or whether they proceed upwards to the brain, is uncertain. The Central Canal of the Spinal Cord (Fig. XLVI.).—In the foetus, until after the sixth month, a canal, continuous with the general ventricular cavity of the brain, extends throughout the entire length of the spinal cord, formed by the closing-in of a previously open groove. In the adult, this canal can only be seen at the upper part of the cord, extending from the point of the calamus scriptorius, in the floor of the fourth ventricle, for about half an inch down the centre of the cord, where it terminates in a cul-de-sac ; the remnant of the canal being just visible in a section of the cord, as a small pale spot, corresponding to the centre of the grey commissure : its cavity is lined with a layer of cylindrical ciliated epithelium. In some cases, this canal remains pervious through- out the whole length of the cord. The Ganglia may be regarded as separate and independent nervous centres, of smaller size and less complex structure than the brain, con- nected with each other, with the cerebro-spinal axis, and with the nerves in various situations. They are found on the posterior root of each of the spinal nerves; on the posterior or sensory root of the fifth cranial nerve ; on the facial nerve ; on the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumogastric nerves; in a connected series along each side of the vertebral column, forming the trunk of the sympathetic ; on the branches of that nerve, and at the point of junction of those branches with the cerebro-spinal nerves. On section, they are seen to consist of a reddish-grey substance, traversed by numerous white nerve-fibres : they vary considerably in form and size; the largest are found in the cavity of the abdomen; the smallest, not visible with