CRANIAL NERVES. 524 side, it passes in front of the arch of the aorta, and anastomoses either with the superior cardiac nerve, or with the cardiac plexus. The thoracic cardiac branches, on the right side, arise from the trunk of the pneumogastric, as it lies by the side of the trachea : passing inwards, they terminate in the deep cardiac plexus. On the left side they arise from the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. The anterior pulmonary branches, two or three in number, and of small size, are distributed on the anterior aspect of the root of the lungs. They join with filaments from the sympathetic, and form the anterior pulmonary plexus. The posterior pulmonary branches, more numerous and larger than the anterior, are distributed on the posterior aspect of the root of the lung : they are joined by filaments from the third and fourth thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic, and form the posterior pulmonary plexus. Branches from both plexuses accompany the rami- fications of the air-tubes through the substance of the lungs. The oesophageal branches are given off from the pneumogastric both above and below the pulmonary branches. The lower are more numerous and larger than the upper. They form, together with branches from the opposite nerve, the oesophageal plexus. The gastric branches are the terminal filaments of the pneumogastric nerve. The nerve on the right side is distributed to the posterior surface of the stomach, and joins the left side of the cceliac plexus and the splenic plexus. The nerve on the left side is distributed over the anterior surface of the stomach, some filaments pass- ing across the great cul-de-sac, and others along the lesser curvature. They unite with branches of the right nerve and sympathetic, some filaments passing through the lesser omentum to the left hepatic plexus. Ninth, or Hypoglossal Nerve. (Fig. 287.) The Ninth Nerve {hypoglossal) is the motor nerve of the tongue. It arises by several filaments, from ten to fifteen in number, from the groove between the pyramidal and olivary bodies, in a continuous line with the anterior roots of the spinal nerves. According to Stilling, these roots may be traced to a grey nucleus in the floor of the medulla oblongata, between the posterior median furrow and the nuclei of the glosso-pharyngeal and vagus nerves. The filaments of this nerve are collected into two bundles, which perforate the dura mater separately, opposite the anterior condyloid foramen, and unite together after their passage through it. In those cases in which the anterior condyloid foramen in the occipital bone is double, t hese two portions of the nerve are separated by a small piece of bone, which divides the foramen. The nerve descends almost vertically to a point corresponding with the angle of the jaw. It is at first deeply seated beneath the internal carotid and internal jugular vein, and intimately connected with the pneumogastric nerve; it then passes forwards between the vein and artery, and at a lower part of the neck becomes superficial below the Digastric muscle. The nerve then loops round the occipital artery, and crosses the external carotid below the tendon of the Digastric muscle. It passes beneath the Mylo-hyoid muscle, lying between it and the Hyo- glossus, and is connected at the anterior border of the latter muscle with the gustatory nerve; it is then continued forwards into the Genio-hyo-glossus muscle as far as the tip of the tongue, distributing branches to its substance. Branches of this nerve communicate with the Pneumogastric. First and second cervical nerves. Sympathetic. Gustatory. The communication with the pneumogastric takes place close to the exit of the nerve from the skull, numerous filaments passing between the hypoglossal and second ganglion of the pneumogastric, or both being united so as to form one mass. The communication with the sympathetic takes place opposite the atlas, by branches derived from the superior cervical ganglion, and in the same situation the