lxxxix THE NERVES. capillary vessels as running. The nerve, at its entrance into this body, parts with its white substance, and the axis-cylinder runs forwards in a kind of cavity in the centre of the corpuscle to terminate in a rounded end or knob, sometimes bifurcating previously, in which case each branch has a similar termination. Grandry, who has examined these corpuscles with very high magnifying powers, describes the axis-cylinder as exhibiting a very well marked fibrillar structure, and the bulbous end as consisting of a mass of granules into which the fibrils run, diverging as they approach it. The investing capsules are from thirty to sixty in number, the outer being more separated from each other, as if by a clear liuid, while the inner are closely applied together. Schultze calls attention to the striking resemblance in 'all essential particulars between these corpuscles and Krause's end-bulbs above described.* In the special organs the nerves end in various ways, which hitherto are not perfectly known. Hoyer and Cohnheim have described the nerves of the cornea as ter- minating in primitive fibrillse, which run between the cells forming the pavement-epithelium of that membrane, and end on its free surface. This, however, is doubted by Hulke,f who has only succeeded in tracing them as far as the middle tier of the epithelial cells. Schultze discovers in the olfactory mucous membrane, lying between the cells of its epithelium, spindle-shaped cells, each possessing a central and a peripheral process—the central process being, according to him, con- tinuous with a primitive fibril of the olfactory nerve, and the peripheral process either ending on the free surface of the epithelium, as is the case in men, mammals, and fishes, or, as in some other animals, prolonged into a long stiff hair. These cells he has denominated 6 olfactory cells and similar cells have been described by Axel Key, Schwalbe, and Loven, in the papillse cir cum vallate of man, and the fungiform papillae of the frog ('taste-cells'). The fibres also of the optic nerve have, according to Schultze, a similar connection with the cells ('sight-cells') of the retina; and cells somewhat similar, and connected with processes that pass through the epithelium, are to be found on the nerve fibrils of the auditory nerve, in the membranous labyrinth. (' hearing- cells '). The termination of the nerves in the hair-bulbs is probably to be found in the papilla at their root, as is also the case in the teeth. In glands the nerves, according to Pfliiger, are connected with the ca3cal commencements of the gland-tubes—at least he has described this arrangement in the salivary glands, and thus he is led to regard the nuclei of these csecal pouches as the terminations of the nerves. Motor nerves are to be traced either into unstriped or striped fibres. In the unstriped fibres it appears from the researches of Beale, Fra.n- kenhauser, and Julius Arnold, that the ultimate fibrils of the nerves form plexuses at the junctions of whose branches small nuclear bodies are situated. These nuclei are regarded by Arnold as the real terminations of the nerves; for although he agrees with Frankenhauser in stating that the nervous filaments penetrate the muscular fibres, and enter into relation * Strieker's Handbuch, p. 123. t Lectures on the Histology of the Eye, at the Royal College of Surge ms, June 1869.