399 COMMON ILIAC. Plan of the Relations of the Common Iliac Arteries. In front. Peritoneum. Small intestines. Sympathetic nerves. Ureter. Outer side. Vena cava. Right common iliac vein. Psoas muscle. Behind. Right and Left common iliac veins. Inner side. Left common iliac vein. In front. Peritoneum. Sympathetic nerves. Rectum. Superior hemorrhoidal artery. Ureter. Outer side. \ Psoas muscle. Behind. Left common iliac vein. Peculiarities. Thepoint of origin varies according- to the bifurcation of the aorta. In three-fourths of a large number of cases, the aorta bifurcated either upon the fourth lumbar vertebra, or upon the intervertebral disc between it and the fifth ; the bifurcation being, in one case out of nine below, and in one out of eleven above this point. In ten out of every thirteen cases, the vessel bifurcated within half an inch above or below the level of the crest of the ilium : more frequently below than above. The point of division is subject to great variety. In two-thirds of a large number of cases it was between the last lumbar vertebra and the upper border of the sacrum ; being above that point in one case out of eight, and below it in one case out of six. The left common iliac artery divides lower down more frequently than the right. The relative length, also, of the two common iliac arteries varies. The right common iliac was the longer in sixty-three cases ; the left in fifty-two ; whilst they were both equal in fifty-three. The length of the arteries varied in five-sevenths of the cases examined, from an inch and a half to three inches; in about half of the remaining cases, the artery was longer; and in the other half, shorter; the minimum length being less than half an inch, the maximum four and a half inches. In one instance, the right common iliac was found wanting, the external and internal iliacs arising directly from the aorta. Surgical Anatomy. The application of a ligature to the common iliac artery may be re- quired on account of aneurism or haemorrhage, implicating the external or internal iliacs, or on account of secondary haemorrhage after amputation of the thigh high up. It has been seen that the origin of this vessel corresponds to the left side of the umbilicus on a level with a line drawn from the highest point of one iliac crest to the opposite one, and its course to a line extending from the left side of the umbilicus downwards towards the middle of Poupart's ligament. The line of incision required in the first steps of an operation for securing this vessel, would materially depend upon the nature of the disease. If the surgeon select the iliac region, a curved incision, about five inches in length, may be made, commenc- ing on the left side of the umbilicus, carried outwards towards the anterior superior iliac spine, and then along the upper border of Poupart's ligament, as far as its middle. But if the aneurismal tumour should extend high up in the abdomen, along the external iliac, it is better to select the side of the abdomen, approaching the artery from above, by making an incision from four to five inches in length, from about two inches above and to the left of the umbilicus, carried outwards in a curved direction towards the lumbar region, and terminating a little below the anterior superior iliac spine. The abdominal muscles (in either case) having been cautiously divided in succession, the transversalis fascia must be carefully cut through, and the peritoneum, together with the ureter, separated from the artery, and pushed aside; the sacro-iliac articulation must then be felt for, and upon it the vessel will be felt pulsating, and may be fully exposed in close connection with its accompanying vein. On the right side, both common iliac veins, as well as the inferior vena cava, are in close connection with the artery, and must be carefully avoided. On the left side, the vein usually lies on the inner side, and behind the artery; but it occasionally happens that the two common iliac veins are joined on the left instead of the right side, which would add much to the difficulty of an operation in such a case. The common iliac artery may be so short that danger may be apprehended from secondary haemorrhage if a ligature is applied to it. It would be preferable, in such a case, to tie both the external and internal iliacs near their origin. Collateral Circulation. The principal agents in carrying on the collateral circulation after the application of a ligature to the common iliac, are, the anastomoses of the hemorrhoidal brancnes of the internal iliac, with the superior hemorrhoidal from the inferior mesenteric ; the anastomoses of the uterine and ovarian arteries, aud of the vesical arteries of opposite