ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 644 The surface of each segment of the valve directed towards the ileum is covered with villi, and presents the characteristic structure of the mucous membrane of the small intestine; whilst that turned towards the large intestine is destitute of villi, and marked with the orifices of the numerous tubuli peculiar to the membrane in the large intestine. These differences in structure continue as far as the free margin of the valve. When the caecum is distended, the margins of the opening are approximated, so as to prevent any reflux into the ileum. The colon is divided into four parts : the ascending, transverse, descending, and the sigmoid flexure. The ascending colon is smaller than the csecum. It passes upwards, from the right iliac fossa to the under surface of the liver, on the right of the gall-bladder, where it bends abruptly inwards to the left, forming the hepatic flexure. It is retained in contact with the posterior wall of the abdomen by the peritoneum, which covers its anterior surface and sides, its posterior surface being connected by loose areolar tissue with the Quadratus lumborum and right kidney (figs. 359, 360) I sometimes the peritoneum almost completely invests it, and forms a distinct but narrow meso-colon. It is in relation, in front, with the convolutions of the ileum and the abdominal parietes; behind, it lies on the Quadratus lumborum muscle and right kidney. The transverse colon, the longest part of the large intestine, passes transversely from right to left across the abdomen, opposite the confines of the epigastric and umbilical zones, into the left hypochondriac region, where it curves downwards beneath the lower end of the spleen, forming the splenic flexure. In its course it describes an arch, the concavity of which is directed backwards towards the ver- tebral column; hence the name, transverse arch of the colon. This is the most movable part of the colon, being almost completely invested by peritoneum, and connected to the spine behind by a large and wide duplicature of that membrane, the transverse meso-colon. It is in relation, by its upper surface, with the liver and gall- bladder, the great curvature of the stomach, and the lower end of the spleen; by its under surface, with the small intestines; by its anterior surface, with the anterior layers of the great omentum and the abdominal parietes; by its posterior surface, with the transverse meso-colon. The descending colon passes almost vertically downwards through the left hypo- chondriac and lumbar regions to the upper part of the left iliac fossa, where it terminates in the sigmoid flexure. It is retained in position by the peritoneum, which covers its anterior surface and sides, its posterior surface being connected by areolar tissue with the left cms of the Diaphragm, the left kidney, and the Quadratus lumborum (figs. 359, 360).. It is smaller in calibre and more deeply placed than the ascending colon, and is very rarely covered with peritoneum on its posterior or outer surface. The sigmoid flexure is the narrowest part of the colon ; it is situated in the left iliac fossa, commencing from the termination of the descending colon, at the margin of the crest of the ilium, and ending in the rectum, opposite the left sacro-iliac symphysis. It curves in the first place upwards, and then descends vertically, and to one or the other side, like the letter S—hence its name. It is retained in its place by a loose fold of peritoneum, the sigmoid meso-colon. It is in relation, in front, with the small intestines and abdominal parietes ; behind, with the iliac fossa. The Rectum is the terminal part of the large intestine, and extends from the sigmoid flexure to the anus; it varies in length from six to eight inches, and has received its name from being less flexuous than any other part of the intestinal canal. It commences opposite the left sacro-iliac symphysis, passes obliquely down- wards from left to right to the middle of the sacrum, forming a gentle curve to the right side; then, regaining the middle line, it descends in front of the lower part of the sacrum and coccyx, and, near the extremity of the latter bone, inclines backwards to terminate at the anus, being curved both in the lateral and antero-posterior