THE PENIS. 723 Structure. The corpus spongiosum consists of a strong fibrous envelope, enclosing a trabecular structure, which contains in its meshes erectile tissue. The fibrous envelope is thinner, whiter in colour, and more elastic than that of the corpus cavernosum. The trabecule are delicate, uniform in size, and the meshes between them small; their long diameter, for the most part, corresponding with that of the penis. A thin layer of muscular fibres, continuous behind with those of the bladder, forms part of the outer coat of the corpus spongiosum. The erectile tissue consists essentially of an intricate venous plexus, lodged in the interspaces between the trabecule. The veins forming this plexus are so numerous, and communicate so freely with one another, as to present a cellular appearance when examined by means of a section • their walls are extremely thin, and lined by squamous epithelium. The veins are smaller in the glans penis, corpus spongiosum? and circumference of the corpora cavernosa, than in the central part of the latter, where they are of large size, and much dilated. They return the blood by a series of vessels, some of which emerge in considerable numbers from the base of the glans penis, and converge on the dorsum of the organ to form the dorsal vein; others pass out on the upper surface of the corpora cavernosa, and join the dorsal vein; some emerge from the under surface of the corpora cavernosa, and, receiving branches from the corpus spongiosum, wind round the sides of the penis to terminate in the dorsal vein; but the greater number pass out at the root of the penis, and join the prostatic plexus and pudendal veins.* The arteries of the penis are derived from the internal pudic. Those supplying the corpora cavernosa are the arteries of the corpora cavernosa, and branches from 415. I From the peripheral portion of the corpus cavernosum penis under a low magnifying power. 1, a network known as the superficial; b, the deep. 2, connection of the arterial twigs (a) with the canals of the deeper cortical network 1 (Copied from Langer.) I ■ the dorsal artery of trie penis, which perforate the fibrous capsule near the fore part I of the organ. Those to the corpus spongiosum are the arteries of the bulb. I Additional branches are described by Kobelt as arising from the trunk of the in- I ternal pudic; they enter the bulbous enlargements on the corpora cavernosa and I corpus spongiosum. The arteries, on entering the cavernous structure, divide into • branches, which are supported and enclosed by the trabecular some of these I branches terminate in a capillary network, which communicates with the veins as |j in other parts ; whilst others are more convoluted, and assume a tendril-like ap- pearance ; hence the name, helicine arteries, which was given to these vessels by Miiller. The helicine arteries are more abundant in the back part of the corpora caver- I nosa and corpus spongiosum ; they have not been seen in the glans penis. The termi- I nation of these arteries in the venous spaces has been long a matter of debate; but * It seems probable from an observation by Mr. Gay, and from his injections of these veins, that the deep veins—those returning the blood from the erectile tissues—have little com- munication with the superficial—those which derive their blood from the integuments; but further research is needed on this point. See Gay in Path. Trans, xxx. 323-5, 3 A 2