GENERAL ANATOMY. xlviii which should be attended to between mere fat and adipose tissue. Adipose tissue consists of a number of vesicles formed by an extremely delicate structureless membrane, round or spherical where they have not been subject to pressure; otherwise, variously flattened. They are sup- plied and held together b}r capillary blood-vessels, and fine connective tissue, and each vesicle is filled with fat. Eat is an unorganised substance, consisting of liquid oily matter (glycerine) in combination with certain fatty acids, stearic, margaric, and elaic. Sometimes the acids separate spontaneously before the fat is examined, and are seen under the microscope in a crystalline form, as in Fig. XII. By boiling the tissue in ether or strong alcohol, the fat may be extracted from the vesicle, which is then seen empty and shrunken. Besides the fully-formed fat-cells above described, others may occa- sionally be found in the course of formation, especially in cases of sudden death during robust health. They are described by Rollett as, in the first stage, small round granular cells, provided with a roundish nucleus, into the interior of which a strongly-refracting drop of fat is then secreted, which is at first surrounded by a ring of the granular matter, and gradually increases so as to fill the cell. As the granular matter becomes less and less, the nucleus, which can at first be easily recognised, becomes less perceptible, but according to this author can always be brought into view by appropriate reagents. Eat is said to be first detected in the human embryo about the fourteenth week. According to Klein, the cells are formed by the transformation of the protoplasmic connective tissue corpuscles, into which small globules of fat Fiff. XIII.—Development of fat. (Klein and Noble Smith.) a. Minute artery, v. Minute vein. c. Capillary blood vessels in the course of formation. They are not hollowed out yet completely, there being still left in them protoplasmic septa, d. The ground substance, containing numerous nucleated cells, some of which are more distinctly branched and flattened than others, and appear therefore more spindle-shaped. find their way and increase until they distend the corpuscle into the thin mantle of protoplasm which forms the cell wall, and in which its nucleus is still to be seen. Others of the connective tissue corpuscles are trans- formed into the vessels and the lymphatic tissue which accompanies the vessels. In various parts of .the body pigment is found, viz. in the hairs, in the