THE CORNEA. 579 thinness, which is not rendered opaque by either water, alcohol, or acids. This membrane is intimately connected by means of a fine cellular web to the proper substance of the cornea both in front and behind. Its most remarkable property is its extreme elasticity, and the tendency which it presents to curl up, or roll upon itself, with the attached surface innermost, when separate from the proper substance of the cornea. Its use appears to be (as suggested by Dr. Jacob), ' to preserve the requisite permanent correct curvature of the flaccid cornea- proper.' The conjunctival epithelium, which covers the front of the anterior elastic lamina, consists of two or three layers of transparent nucleated cells, the deepest being of an oblong form and placed perpendicular to the surface, the superficial ones more flattened. The cjrithelial lining of the aqueous chamber covers the posterior surface of the posterior elastic lamina. It consists of a single layer of polygonal transparent nucleated cells, similar to those found lining other serous cavities. Arteries and Nerves. The cornea is a non-vascular structure, the capillary vessels terminating in loops at its circumference. Lymphatic vessels have not as yet been demonstrated in it, The nerves are numerous, twenty or thirty in number: they are derived from the ciliary nerves, and enter the laminated substances of the cornea. They ramify thi-oughout its substance in a delicate network, and their 309.—The Choroid and Iris. (Enlarged.) terminal filaments have been traced by Cohnheim through the proper substance of the cornea into the deeper layers of the epithelium. Dissection. In order to separate the sclerotic and cornea, so as to expose the second tunic, the eyeball should he immersed in a small vessel of water. A fold of the sclerotic near its anterior part having been pinched up, an operation not easily performed, from the extreme tension of the membrane, it should be divided with a pair of blunt-pointed scissors. As soon as the choroid is exposed, the end of a blow-pipe should be introduced into the orifice, and a stream of air forced into it, so as to separate the slight cellular connection between the sclerotic and choroid. The sclerotic should now be divided around its entire circumference, and may he removed in separate portions. The front segment being then drawn forwards, the handle of the scalpel should he pressed gently against it at its connection with the iris, and these being separated, a quantity of perfectly transparent fluid will escape; this is the P P 2