MUSCLES AND FASCIAE. Dorsal Region. Sacro-lumbalis. Muscultis accessorius ad sacro-lumbalem. Longissimus dorsi. Spinalis dorsi. Cervical Region. Cervicalis ascend ens. Transversalis colli. Trachelo-m astokl. Complexus. Biventer cervicis. Spinalis colli. Fifth Layer. Semispinalis dorsi. Semispinalis colli. Multifidus spina?. Hotatores spinse. Supraspinales. Interspinales. Extensor coccygis. Intertransversales. Rectus capitis posticus major. Rectus capitis posticus minor, Obliquus capitis superior. Obli<juus capitis inferior. First Layer. Trapezius. Latissimus Dorsi. Dissection (fig. 163). Place the body in the prone position, with the arms extended over the sides of the table, and the chest and abdomen supported by several blocks, so as to render the muscles tense. Then make an incision along the middle line of the back, from the occipital protuberance to the coccyx. Make a transverse incision from the upper end of this to the mastoid process; and a third incision from its lower end, along the crest of the ilium to about its middle. This large intervening space should, for convenience of dissection, be subdivided by a fourth incision, extending obliquely from the spinous process of the last dorsal vertebra, upwards and outwards, to the acromion process. This incision corresponds with the lower border of the Trapezius muscle. The flaps of integument are then to be removed in the direction shown in the figure. The Trapezius (fig. 164) is a broad, flat, triangular muscle, placed immediately be- neath the skin, and covering the upper and back part of the neck and shoulders. It 163.—Dissection of the Muscles of the Back, arises from the inner third of the superior curved line of the occipital bone ; from the ligamentum nucha?, the spinous process of the seventh cervical, and those of all the dorsal vertebra?; and from the cor- responding portion of the supraspinous ligament. From this origin, the superior fibres proceed downwards and outwards, the inferior ones, upwards and outwards ; and the middle fibres, horizontally; and are inserted, the supeiior ones, into the outer third of the posterior border of the clavicle; the middle fibres into the inner margin of the acromion process, and into the superior lip of the crest of the spine of the scapula; the inferior fibres con- verge near the scapula, and are at- tached to a triangular aponeurosis, which glides over a smooth surface at tbe inner extremity of the spine, and is in- serted into a tubercle at the outer part of the surface. The Trapezius is fleshy in the greater part of its extent, but tendinous at its origin and insertion. At its occipital origin, it is connected to the bone by a thin fibrous lamina, firmly adherent to the skin, and wanting the lustrous, shining appearance of aponeurosis. At its origin from the spines of the vertebra?, it is connected to the bones by means of a broad semi-elliptical