MALE GENERATIVE ORGANS. 73° brown colour, and presents a delicate reticular structure, like that seen in the gall- bladder, but the meshes are 'finer. The epithelium is squamous. The coats of the ejaculatory ducts are extremely thin, the outer fibrous layer being almost entirely lost after their entrance into the prostate, a thin layer of muscular fibres and the mucous membrane forming the only constituents of the tubes. Vessels and Nerves. The arteries supplying the vesiculre seminales are derived from the inferior vesical and middle hemorrhoidal. The veins and lymphatics accompany the arteries. The nerves are derived from the hypogastric plexus. The Semen is a thick, whitish fluid, having a peculiar odour. It consists of a fluid, the liquor seminis, and solid particles, the seminal granules, and spermatozoa. The liquor seminis is transparent, colourless, and of an albuminous composition, containing particles of squamous and columnar epithelium, with oil-globules and granular matter floating in it, besides the above-mentioned solid elements. The seminal granules are round finely-granular corpuscles, measuring ^(jVo"*n °f an inch in diameter. The spermatozoa, or spermatic filaments, are the essential agents in producing fecundation. They are minute elongated particles, consisting of a small flattened oval extremity or body, and a long slender caudal filament. A small circular spot is observed in the centre of the body, and at its point of connection with the tail there is frequently seen a projecting rim or collar. The movements of these bodies are remarkable, and consist of a lashing or undulatory motion of the tail. Descent of the Testes. The testes, at an early period of foetal life, are placed at the back part of the abdominal cavity, behind the peritoneum, in front, and a little below the kidneys. The anterior surface and sides are invested by peritoneum : the blood vessels and efferent ducts are connected with their posterior surface; and attached to the lower end is a peculiar structure, the gubernaculum testis, which is said to assist in their descent. The Gubernaculum Testis attains its full development between the fifth and sixth months ; it is a conical-shaped cord, attached above to the lower end of the epi- didymis, and below to the bottom of the scrotum. It is placed behind the peri- toneum, lying upon the front of the Psoas muscle, and completely filling the inguinal canal. It consists of a soft transparent areolar tissue within, which often appears partially hollow, surrounded by a layer of striped muscular fibres, the Cremaster, which ascends upon this body to be attached to the testis. According to Mr. Curling, the gubernaculum, as well as these muscular fibres, divides below into three processes : the external and broadest process is connected with Poupart's ligament in the inguinal canal; the middle process descends along the inguinal canal to the bottom of the scrotum, where it joins the dartos; the internal one is firmly attached to the os pubis and sheath of the Rectus muscle ; some fibres, moreover, are reflected from the Internal oblique on to the front of the gubernaculum. Up to the fifth month, the testis is situated in the lumbar region, covered in front and at the sides by peritoneum, and supported in its position by a fold of that membrane, called the mesorchium ; between the fifth and sixth months the testis descends to the iliac fossa, the gubernaculum at the same time becoming shortened; during the seventh month, it enters the internal abdominal ring, a small pouch of peritoneum (processus vaginalis) preceding the testis in its course through the canal. By the end of the eighth month, the testis has descended into the scrotum, carrying down with it a lengthened pouch of peritoneum, which communicates by its upper extremity with the peritoneal cavity. Just before birth, the upper part of the pouch usually becomes closed, and this obliteration extends gradually downwards to within a short distance of the testis. The process of peritoneum surrounding the testis which is now entirely cut oft' from the general peritoneal cavity, constitutes the tunica vaginalis .* * The obliteration of the process of peritoneum which accompanies the cord, and is hence