ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 6i8 developed from the sides of the cavity; and these, uniting, divide it into two portions; the lower portion containing the papilla of the permanent tooth, the upper narrower portion becoming gradually contracted in the same way that the primitive dental groove was obliterated over the sacs of the deciduous teeth (fig. 338). The six posterior permanent teeth in each jaw, three 011 each side, arise from successive extensions backwards of the back part of the primitive dental groove. During the fourth month, that portion of the dental groove which lies behind the last temporary molar follicle remains open, and from it is developed the papilla, the rudiment of the first permanent molar. The follicle in which it is contained becomes closed by its operculum, and the upper part of the newly-formed sac elongates back- wards to form a cavity of reserve in which the papilla of the second permanent molar appears at the seventh month after birth. After a considerable interval, during which the sacs of the first and second permanent molars have considerably in- creased in size, the remainder of the cavity of reserve presents for the last time a series of changes similar to the preceding, and gives rise to the sac a,nd papilla of the wisdom-teeth, which appear at the sixth year. The chief difference, therefore, between Goodsir's description and those of later anatomists is that he did not recognise the epithelial origin of the enamel, describing merely the ' opercula,' which in the modern description would be recognised only as part of the ordinary connective tissue in which the papilla is embedded (fig. 334, a). The origin of the dentinal fibres from the odontoblasts is another matter of primary importance which was not recognised in the older descriptions. Eruption. When the calcification of the different tissues of the tooth is suffi- ciently advanced to enable it to bear the pressure to which it will be afterwards sub- jected, its eruption takes place, the tooth making its way through the gum. The gum is absorbed by the pressure of the crown of the tooth against it, which is itself pressed up by the increasing size of the fang (fig. 339). At the same time, the septa between the dental sacs, at first fibrous in structure, ossify, and constitute the alveoli; these firmly embrace the necks of the teeth, and afford them a solid basis of support. The eruption of the temporary teeth commences at the seventh month, and is complete about the end of the second year, those of the lower jaw preceding the upper. The periods for the eruption of the temporary set are :— 7th month, central incisors. 14th to 20th month, canine. 7th to 10th month, lateral incisors. 18th to 36th month, posterior molars. 12th to 14th month, anterior molars. Calcification of the permanent teeth commences a little before birth, and proceeds in the following order in the upper jaw, in the lower jaw a little earlier :—First molar, five or six months; the central incisor, a little later; lateral incisors and canine, about the eighth or ninth month; the bicuspids at the second year; second molar, five or six years ; wisdom-tooth about twelve years. Previous to the permanent teeth penetrating the gum, the bony partitions which separate their sacs from the deciduous teeth are absorbed, the fangs of the temporary teeth disappear, and the permanent teeth become placed under the loose crowns of the deciduous teeth ; the latter finally become detached, and the permanent teeth take their place in the mouth. The eruption of the permanent teeth takes place at the following periods, the teeth of the lower jaw preceding those of the upper by a short interval:— 6\ years, first molars. 10th year, second bicuspid. 7th year, two middle incisors. nth to 12th year, canine. 8th year, two lateral incisors. 12th to 13th year, second molars. 9th year, first bicuspid. 17th to 21st year, wisdom-teeth. The Palate. The Palate forms the roof of the mouth; it consists of two portions, the hard palate in front, the soft palate behind.