174 ARTICULATIONS. happily says, ' is so adjusted as to enable either bone to turn in a hinge-like manner upon a vertical axis drawn through the other, and it permits the surfaces of the scapula, like the baskets in a round-about swing, to look the same way in every position, or nearly so.' Again, when the whole arch formed by the clavicle and scapula rises and falls (in elevation or depression of the shoulders), the joint between these two bones enables the scapula still to maintain its lower part in contact with the ribs. III. Proper Ligaments of the Scapula. (Fig. 131.) The proper ligaments of the scapula are, the Coraco-acromial. Transverse. The Coraco-acromial Ligament is a broad, thin, flat band, of a triangular shape, extended transversely above the upper part of the shoulder-joint, between the coracoid and acromion processes. It is attached, by its apex, to the summit of the acromion just in front of the articular surface for the clavicle; and by its broad base, to the whole length of the outer border of the coracoid process. Its posterior fibres are directed obliquely backwards and outwards, its anterior fibres transversely. This ligament completes the vault formed by the coracoid and acromion processes for the protection of the head of the humerus. It is in relation, above, with the clavicle and under surface of the Deltoid; below, with the tendon of the Supra- spinatus muscle, a bursa being interposed. Its anterior border is continuous with a dense cellular lamina that passes beneath the Deltoid upon the tendons of the Supra- and Infraspinatus muscles. The Transverse or Coracoid Ligament converts the suprascapular notch into a foramen. It is a thin and flat fasciculus, narrower at the middle than at the extremities, attached, by one end, to the base of the coracoid process, and, by the other, to the inner extremity of the scapular notch. The suprascapular nerve passes through the foramen; the suprascapular vessels above it. IV. Shoulder-Joint. (Fig. 131.) The Shoulder is an enarthrodial or ball-and-socket joint. The bones entering into its formation, are the large globular head of the humerus, received into the shallow glenoid cavity of the scapula, an arrangement which permits of very considerable movement, whilst the joint itself is protected against displacement by the strong ligaments and tendons which surround it, and above by an arched vault, formed by the under surface of the coracoid and acromion processes, and the coraco-acromial ligament. The articular surfaces are covered by a layer of cartilage : that on the head of the humerus is thicker at the centre than at the circumference, the reverse being the case in the glenoid cavity. The ligaments of the shoulder are, the Capsular. Coraco-humeral. Glenoid. * The Capsular Ligament completely encircles the articulation ; being attached, above, to the circumference of the glenoid cavity beyond the glenoid ligament; below, to the anatomical neck of the humerus, approaching nearer to the articular cartilage above than in the rest of its extent. It is thicker above than below, remarkably loose and lax, and much larger and longer than is necessary to keep the bones in contact, allowing them to be separated from each other more than an inch, an evident provision for that extreme freedom of movement which is peculiar to this articulation. Its external surface is strengthened, above, by the Supra- spinous; above and internally, by the coraco-humeral ligament; below, by the * The long tendon of origin of the Biceps muscle also acts as one of the ligaments of this joint. See the observations on pp. 150, 151, on the function of the muscles passing over more than one joint.