ARTERIES. 362 the brachial plexus, and Omohyoid muscle. Below, it rests on the outer surface of the first rib. Plan of Relations of Thied Portion of Subclavian Aeteey. In front. Cervical fascia. External jugular, suprascapular, and transverse cervical veins. Descending brandies of cervical plexus. Nerve to Subclavius muscle. Subclavius muscle, suprascapular artery, and clavicle. Above. Brachial plexus. Omo-liyoid. Behind. Scalenus medius. Peculiarities. The Subclavian arteries vary in their origin, their course, and the height to which they rise in the neck. The origin of the right subclavian from the innominate takes place, in some cases, above the stern o-clavicular articulation; and occasionally, but less frequently, in the cavity of the thorax, below that joint. Or the artery may arise as a separate trunk irom the arch of the aorta. In such cases it may be either the first, second, third, or even the last branch derived from that vessel; in the majority of cases, it is the first or last, rarely the second or third. When it is the first branch, it occupies the ordinary position of the innominate artery ; when the second or third, it gains its usual position by passing behind the right carotid ; and when the last branch, it arises from the left extremity of the arch, at its upper or back part, and passes obliquely towards the right side, usually behind the oesophagus and right carotid, sometimes between the oesophagus and trachea, to the upper border of the first rib, whence it follows its ordinary course. In very rare instances, this vessel arises from the thoracic aorta, as low down as the fourth dorsal vertebra. Occasionally, it perforates the anterior Scalenus ; more rarely it passes in front of that muscle : sometimes the subclavian vein passes with the artery behind the Scalenus. The artery sometimes ascends as high as an inch and a half above the clavicle, or any intermediate point between this and the upper border of the bone, the right subclavian usually ascending higher than the left. The left subclavian is occasionally joined at its origin with the left carotid. Surgical Anatomy. The relations of the subclavian arteries of the two sides having been examined, the student should direct his attention to consider the best position in which compression of the vessel may be effected, or in what situation a ligature may be best applied in cases of aneurism or wound. Compression of the. subclavian artery is required in cases of operations about the shoulder, in the axilla, or at the upper part of the arm ; and the student will observe that there is only one situation in which it can be effectually applied, viz., where the artery passes across the outer surface of the first rib. In order to compress the vessel in this situation, the shoulder should be depressed, and the surgeon grasping the side of the neck, may press with his thumb in the hollow behind the clavicle downwards against the rib ; if from any cause the shoulder cannot be sufficiently depressed, pressure may be made from before backwards, so as to compress the artery against the middle Scalenus, and transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. In appropriate cases, a preliminary incision may be made through the cervical fascia, and the finger may be pressed down directly upon the artery. Ligature of the subclavian artery may be required in cases of wounds, or of aneurism in the axilla ; and the third part of the artery is that which is most favourable for an operation, on account of its being comparatively superficial, a,nd most remote from the origin of the large branches. In those cases where the clavicle is not displaced, this operation may be performed with comparative facility; but where the clavicle is pushed up by a large aneu- rismal tumour in the axilla, the artery is placed at a great depth from the surface, which materially increases the difficulty of the operation. Under these circumstances, it becomes a matter of importance to consider the height to which this vessel reaches above the bone. In ordinary cases, its arch is about half an inch above the clavicle, occasionally as high as an inch and a half, and sometimes so low as to be on a level with its upper border. If the clavicle is displaced, these variations will necessarily make the operation more or less difficult, according as the vessel is more or less accessible. The chief points in the operation of tying the third portion of the subclavian artery are a? follows: the patient being placed on a table in the horizontal position, and the shoulder depressed as much as possible, the integument should be drawn downwards upon the cla- vicle, and an incision made through it upon that bone from the anterior border of the Below. First rib.