OF THE TARSUS. foot, which completes the socket of the joint in that direction. Lancet, i866; vol. i. p. 618. under surface of the os calcis, from near the tuberosities, as far forwards as the anterior tubercle ■ its fibres pass forwards to be attached to the ridge on the under surface of the cuboid bone, the more superficial fibres being continued onwards to the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. This ligament crosses the groove on the under surface of the cuboid bone, converting it into a canal for the passage of th e tendon of the Peroneus long as. The Short Calcaneo-Cuboid Ligament lies nearer to the bones than the preceding, from which it is separated by a little areolar adipose tissue. It is exceedingly broad, about an inch in length, and extends from the tubercle and the depression in front of it on the fore part of the under surface of the os calcis, to the inferior surface of the cuboid bone behind the peroneal groove. A separate synovial mem- brane is found in the calcaneo-cuboid articulation. The ligaments connecting the os calcis with the scaphoid are two in number: Superior Calcaneo-Scaphoid. Inferior Calcaneo-Scaphoid. The Superior Calcaneo-Scaphoid (fig. 146) arises, as already mentioned, with the internal calcaneo-cuboid in the deep groove between the astragalus and os calcis; it passes forwards from the inner side of the anterior extremity of the os calcis; the outer side of the scaphoid bone. These 147.—Ligaments of Plantar surface of the Font. two ligaments resemble the letter Y, being blended together behind, but separated in front. The Inferior Calcaneo-Scaphoid (fig. 147) is by far the larger and stronger of the two ligaments of this articulation ; it is a broad and thick band of fibres, which passes forwards and inwards from the anterior and inner extremity of the os calcis to the under surface of the scaphoid bone. This ligament not only serves to connect the os calcis and scaphoid, but supports the head of the astragalus, form- ing part of the articular cavity in which it is received. The upper surface is lined by the synovial membrane continued from the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid articu- lation. Its under surface is in contact with the tendon of the Tibialis posticus muscle.* The articulation between the astra- galus and scaphoid is an arthrodial joint: the rounded head of the astragalus being received into the concavity formed by the posterior surface of the scaphoid, the anterior articulating surface of the calca- neum, and the upper surface of the calca- neo-scaphoid ligament, which fills up the triangular interval between those bones. The only ligament of this joint is the superior astragalo-scaphoid, a broad band, which passes obliquely forwards from the neck of the astragalus to the superior surface of the scaphoid bone. It is thin and weak in texture, and covered by the Extensor tendons. The inferior calcaneo- scaphoid supplies the place of an inferior ligament. The Synovial Membrane which lines the joint is continued forwards from the * Mr. Hancock describes an extension of this ligament upwards on the inner side of the