526 CRANIAL NERVES. hyoid, and Genio- hy o-glossus muscles. At the under surface of the tongue, numerous slender branches pass upwards into the substance of the organ. For the following brief account of the most recent views relating to the origin of the cranial nerves, the editor is indebted to the late Dr. Lockhart Clarke. The third cerebral nerve arises chiefly from two large masses of grey substance at the floor of the iter e tertio ad quartum ventriculum beneath the corpora quadri- gemina. The fourth arises from two nuclei at the floor of the iter e tertio ad quartum ventriculum, and from the valve of Yieussens, where the opposite nerves decussate with each other. The large root of the fifth or trigeminal arises chiefly from the grey tubercles of Rolando, or the upper expanded extremities of the posterior grey horns of the spinal cord; the small or motor root arises from two masses of large multipolar cells situated each on the inner side, and close to the grey tubercle, and intimately con- nected with it. The sixth nerve arises in common with the facial from the grey substance of the fasciculus teres on the floor of the fourth ventricle. The facial nerve has two origins :— i. From the grey substance of the fasciculus teres on the floor of the fourth ventricle. 2. From the nucleus of the motor root of the trigeminus ; between these two origins it forms a loop along the floor of the ventricle. The Auditory nerve has three origins :—1. From the superior vermiform process of the cerebellum. 2 and 3. From the inner and outer auditory nuclei formed chiefly by the grey substance of the posterior pyramid and restiform body. The vagus and glosso-pharyngeal nerves have each two origins:—1. From a special nucleus in the floor of the fourth ventricle. 2. From the anterior or motor part of the medulla. The Spinal-accessory nerve has three origins :—1. The lower roots from the anterior grey horn of the spinal cord in common with the motor roots of the cervical nerves. 2. From the grey nucleus of the hypoglossal nerve. 3. From a special nucleus behind the central canal of the medulla oblongata.