cxlvi GENERAL ANATOMY. in the interior of the liver, and which give origin to other veins (efferent), i which return the blood from the liver, and form afterwards the hepatic veins. The portion of the umbilical vein between the giving off of the ] future portal vessels and the reception of the hepatic, forms the ductus venosus. The mesenteric vein communicates at first with the omphalo- ! mesenteric ; when the veins of the liver are formed, the omphalomesenteric ! is transferred from the umbilical vein to the right afferent hepatic. A portion of it persists and forms the trunk of the portal vein. The systemic veins are developed from four trunk veins, two on either j side, above and below, which appear before the formation of the allantois ' or the umbilical vessels. These unite into one canal on either side (sinuses j of Cuvier), which open into the common trunk of the omphalomesenteric veins, and so into the auricular portion of the rudimentary heart. These four primitive veins lie, two of them in front, the anterior cardinal, or j jugular veins, and the other two behind, the posterior cardinal veins. As I the umbilical vein increases, and the omphalomesenteric diminishes in i volume, the sinuses of Cuvier are transferred to the former vein, and when j the inferior cava is formed and the umbilical vein becomes merely its tribu- tary, the sinuses of Cuvier open into the inferior vena cava. At a later period the portion of the vena cava inferior, between the opening of the sinuses of Cuvier and the auricle, disappears, and then the auricle receives three veins— viz. the inferior cava, and the two sinuses of Cuvier, which are now called right and left superior vena cava (fig. XCIV.). The superior cardinal, or jugular veins, which form the upper branches of the sinuses of Cuvier on either side, unite about the second month by a transverse anastomosing branch. The left superior vena cava assumes an oblique position, and empties itself into the lower and left end of the auricle. Finally, its trunk disappears, while its orifice is transformed into the coronary sinus, in which the great cardiac vein opens."* The right sinus of Cuvier, or superior vena cava, persists; the transverse anastomo- sing branch between the two jugulars becomes the left innominate vein, and the end of the right jugular the right innominate. The venous cir- culation in the lower part of the embryo is at first carried on by the inferior cardinal veins, which return the blood from the Wolffian bodies, and re- ceive branches corresponding to the intercostal, lumbar, and crural veins. Between the fourth and fifth week, the inferior vena cava begins to appear in the form of a vessel, which passes upwards behind the liver and j between the two Wolffian bodies. It anastomoses below with the two | cardinal veins, and with the crural veins, which gradually come to open info it. The middle part of the cardinal veins disappears; their distal extremities persist as the hypogastric veins, which open along with the crural into the * Mr. Marshall has pointed out that in the adult the remains of the obliterated left superior cava can be distinguished as a cord, or sometimes a small vein which passes down | in front of the right auricle to the coronary sinus, and that the projection of this cord forms a fold of the serous pericardium over the root of the left lung, which from that circumstance he has named 'the vestigial fold.' And he has figured a case in which the left superior vena cava remained pervious, forming an anastomosis between the united left subclavian and internal jugular veins, and the coronary sinus, the left brachio-cephalie being reduced to a small anastomosing branch. The abnormal vein ran along the vestigial fold, receiving the left superior intercostal vein (see the figure in Quain's ' Anatomy/ vol. ii. p. 798).