766 SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE PERINEUM. The posterior layer is derived from the pelvic fascia ; it is continued backwards around the posterior part of the membranous portion of the urethra and the outer surface of the prostate gland. If the anterior layer of this fascia is detached on either side, the following parts are seen between it and the posterior layer : the subpubic ligament above, close to the pubes ; the dorsal vein of the penis; the membranous portion of the urethra, and the muscles of the urethra; Cowper's glands and their ducts; the pudic vessels and nerve; the artery and nerve of the bulb, and a plexus of veins. The Compressor Urethras (constrictor urethras) surrounds the whole length of the membranous portion of the urethra, and is contained between the two layers of the deep perineal fascia. It arises, by aponeurotic fibres, from the upper part of the ramus of the pubes on each side, to the extent of half or three-quarters of an inch : each segment of the muscle passes inwards, and divides into two fasciculi, which surround the urethra from the prostate gland behind, to the bulbous portion of the urethra in front; and unite, at the upper and lower surfaces of this tube, with the muscle of the opposite side, by means of a tendinous raphe. Circular Muscular Fibres surround the membranous portion of the urethra from the bulb in front to the prostate gland behind ; they are placed immediately beneath the transverse fibres already described, and are continuous with the circular fibres of the bladder. These fibres are involuntary. Coivper's Glands are situated immediately below the membranous portion of the urethra, close behind the bulb, and below the artery of the bulb (p. 721). The Pudic Vessels and Nerves are placed along the inner margin of the pubic arch (p. 403). The Artery of the Bulb passes transversely inwards, from the internal pudic along the base of the triangular ligament, between the two layers of fascia, accom- panied by a branch of the pudic nerve (p. 405). If the posterior layer of the deep perinseal fascia is removed, and the cms penis of one side detached from the bone, the under or perinaeal surface of the Levator ani is brought fully into view. This muscle, with the triangular ligament in front and the Coccygens and Pyriformis behind, closes in the outlet of the pelvis. The Levator ani is a broad thin muscle, situated on each side of the pelvis. It is attached to the inner surface of the sides of the true pelvis, and, descending, unites with its fellow of the opposite side to form the floor of the pelvic cavity. It supports the viscera in this cavity, and surrounds the various structures which pass through it. It arises, in front from the posterior surface of the body and ramus of the pubes, on the outer side of the symphisis; posteriorly, from the inner surface of the spine of the ischium: and between these two points, from the angle of division between the obturator and recto-vesical layers of the pelvic fascia at their under part : the fibres pass downwards to the middle line of the floor of the pelvis, and are inserted, the most posterior fibres into the sides of the apex of the coccyx; those placed more anteriorly unite with the muscle of the opposite side, in a median fibrous raphe, which extends between the coccyx and the margin of the anus. The middle fibres, which form the larger portion of the muscle, are inserted into the side of the rectum, blending with the fibres of the Sphincter muscles ; lastly, the anterior fibres, the longest, descend upon the side of the prostate gland to unite beneath it with the muscle of the opposite side, blending with the fibres of the external sphincter and Trans versus perinsei muscles at the tendinous centre of the perinasum. The anterior portion is occasionally separated from the rest of the muscle by cellular tissue. From this circumstance, as well as from its peculiar relation with the prostate gland, descending by its side, and surrounding it as in a sling, it has been described by Santorini and others as a distinct muscle, under the name of the Levator prostatce. In the female, the anterior fibres of the Levator ani descend upon the sides of the vagina. Relations. By its upper or pelvic surface with the recto-vesical fascia, which separates it from the viscera of the pelvis and from the peritoneum. By its outer or perinceal surface, it forms the inner boundary of the ischio-rectal fossa, and