lxxiv GENERAL ANATOMY. Fig. XXXIX.—A small ner- vous branch from the sym- pathetic of a mammal, a, two dark-bordered nerve- tubes among a number of Remak's fibres, b. often give nerve-tubes a varicose outline, and drops of oil, from the tran- sudation of the fatty matter, often form outside the tubular membrane. This is, of course, promoted by the action of ether. The axis-cylinder constitutes about one-half or one-third of the nerve- tube, the white substance being greater in proportion in the nerves than in the central organs. The axis-cylinder is perfectly transparent, and is therefore indistinguishable in a perfectly fresh and natural state of the nerve. It is described by Kolliker as being distinguished from the white substance by the fact that, though, soft and flexible, it is not fluid and viscid, but firm and elastic, somewhat like coagulated albumen, with which it appears for the most part also to agree in its chemical characters. As ordinarily seen it appears pale and homogeneous, or more rarely finely granular or striated. Besides these nerve-fibres, which consist of two distinct parts, others are found in which only the axis-cylinder can be recognised, surrounded by its medullary membrane, whilst there are again mere primitive fibrils found in various parts which are perfectly destitute of any visible structure, and only recognised as nerves by their connection with ganglionic cells, or with obvious nerve-tubes."* They display a great tendency to become varicose on manipula- tion. The finely striated appearance of those nerves, which consist only of the axis-cylinder and its membranous investment, renders it probable that these also are formed of an aggregation of the primitive fibrillar. Thus three different kinds of white nerve- fibres are described by recent authorities— viz. i. those which consist of the axis-cylinder, ensheathed in the white substance of Schwann, the whole being invested by the tubular mem- brane ; 2. those which consist of the axis- cylinder and medullary membrane only; and # 3. the primitive fibrils, of which it is believed that the axis-cylinder of the more composite nerves is made up.t Most of the nerves of the sympathetic system, and some of the cerebro- spinal (see especially the description of the olfactory nerve, infra, p. 501), consist of a fourth description of nervous fibres,% which are called the grey or gelatinous nerve-fibres (fibres of Remak). (Fig. XXXIX.) These consist of a bundle of finely-granular fibrillso enclosed in a sheath. Nuclei may be detected at intervals in each fibre, which Schultze believes * Schultze (Strieker's Ilandbuch, fig. 17, p. 109) represents these piimitive fibrils, both in their connection with ganglion-cells and with larger nerves. See also below, fig. LII. t Schultze believes that the primitive fibrils are the essential element of all nerves ; thus, according to him, the essential difference between the gelatinous and the ordinary nerve- fibrils consists in the absence from the former of the white substance (medulla) of Schwann, while the tubular membrane is present. The small nerve-fibres, on the other hand, described as primitive fibrils or naked axis-cylinders, are either destitute of any investment, or sur- rounded merely by a structureless basement membrane. X The real nature of these fibres has been doubted by several authors. It seems better, however, and more consonant with the prevalent opinion, to describe them as truly nervous.