ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 638 Epithelium. Simple follicles. Valvulae conniventes. f Duodenal glands. Villi. Glands. < Solitary glands. L Agminate or Peyer's glands. The epithelium, covering the mucous membrane of the small intestine, is of the columnar variety. The valvules conniventes (valves of Kerkring) are reduplications or foldings of the mucous membrane and submucous tissue, containing no muscular fibres. They extend transversely across the cylinder of the intestine for about three-fourths or five-sixths of its circumference. The larger folds are about two inches in length and 350.—Diagrammatic Section of a Villus. ep. Epithelium only partially shaded in. I. Central chyle-vessel. The cells forming the vessel have been less shaded to distinguish them from the cells of the parenchyma of the villus, m. Muscle fibres running up by the side of the chyle-vessel. It will be noticed that each muscle fibre is surrounded by the reticulum, and by this reticulum the muscles are attached to the cells forming the membrana propria, as at <?', or to the reticulum of the villus, /c. Lymph corpuscles, marked by a spherical nucleus and a clear zone of protoplasm. /'. Upper limit of the chyle- vessel, e, e. e'. Cells forming the membrana propria. It will be seen that there is hardly any difference between the cells of the parenchyma, the endothelium of the upper part of the chyle-vessel, and the cells of the mem- brana propria. V. Blood-vessels, z. Dark line at the base of the epithelium formed by the reticulum. It will be seen that the reticulum penetrates between all the other elements of the villus. The reticulum contains thicken- ings or 1 nodal points.' The diagram shows that the ceUs of the upper part of the villus are larger and contain a larger zone of protoplasm than those of the lower part. The cells of the upper part of the chyle-vessel differ somewhat from those of the lower part, in that they more nearly resemble the cells of the parenchyma. two-thirds of an inch in depth at their broadest part; but the greater number are of smaller size. The larger and smaller folds alternate with each other. They are not found at the commencement of the duodenum, but begin to appear about one or two inches beyond the pylorus. In the lower part of the descending portion, below the point where the common choledic and pancreatic ducts enter the intestine, they are very large and closely approximated. In the transverse portion of the duodenum and upper half of the jejunum, they are large and numerous; and from this point, down to the middle of the ileum, they diminish considerably in size. In the lower part of the ileum, they almost entirely disappear; hence the comparative thinness of this portion of the intestine, as compared with the duodenum and jejunum. The