229 LINGUAL REGION. of the body, the lesser cornu, and whole length of the greater cornu of the hyoid bone, and passing almost vertically upwards, is inserted into the side of the tongue, between the Stylo-glossus and Lingualis. Those fibres of this muscle which arise from the body, are directed upwards and backwards, overlapping those from the greater cornu, which are directed obliquely forwards. Those from the lesser cornu extend forwards and outwards along the side of the tongue, under cover of the portion arising from the body. The difference in the direction of the fibres of this muscle, and their separate origin from different parts of the hyoid bone, led Albinus and other anatomists to describe it as three muscles, under the names of the Basio-glossus, the Kerato- glossus, and the Chondro-glossus. Relations. By its external surface, with the Digastric, the Stylo-hyoid, Stylo- glossus, and Mylo-hyoid muscles, the gustatory and hypoglossal nerves, Wharton's duct, and the sublingual gland. By its deep surface, with the Genio-hyo-glossus, Lingualis, and Middle constrictor, the lingual vessels, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The greater part of the muscular substance of the tongue is formed by its in- trinsic muscle, the lingualis, inferior, superficial, transverse, and vertical. The 158.—A Longitudinal Section of the Tongue near the Middle Line, to show the Superficial Lingualis and the Intrinsic Vertical Fibres. inferior lingualis (figs. 157, 158) is a longitudinal band of muscular fibres, situated on the under surface of the tongue, lying in the interval between the Hyo-glossus and the Genio-hyo-glossus, and extending from the base to the apex of the organ. Posteriorly, some of its fibres are lost in the base of the tongue, and others are 159.—A Transverse Section of the Tongue, showing the various Intrinsic and Extrinsic Muscles in their relative positions. The Intrinsic Vertical Fibres and the Kanine Artery are removed on one side, and shown on the other. occasionally attached to the hyoid bone. It blends with the fibres of the Stylo- glossus, in front of the Hyo-glossus, and is continued forwards as far as the apex of the tongue. It is in relation, by its under surface, with the ranine artery. The superficial lingualis (fig. 158) consists of fibres running more or less longitudinally