SUPERIOR AND INFERIOR MAXILLARY REGION. thus tends rather to open than to close the nostrils. The Depressor alse nasi is a direct antagonist of the preceding muscles, drawing the ala of the nose downwards, and thereby constricting the aperture of the nares. 6. Superior Maxillary Region. (Fig. 150.) Levator Labii Superioris. Zygomaticus Major. Levator Anguli Oris. Zygomaticus Minor. The Levator Labii Superioris (proprius) is a thin muscle of a quadrilateral form. It arises from the lower margin of the orbit immediately above the infraorbital foramen, some of its fibres being attached to the superior maxilla, others to the malar bone ; its fibres converge to be inserted into the muscular substance of the upper lip. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the lower segment of the Orbicularis palpebrarum ; below, it is subcutaneous. By its deep surface, it conceals the origin of the Compressor nasi and Levator anguli oris muscles, and the infraorbital vessels and nerves, as they escape from the infraorbital foramen. The Levator Anguli Oris arises from the canine fossa, immediately below the infraorbital foramen; its fibres incline downwards and a little outwards, to be inserted into the angle of the mouth, intermingling with those of the Zygomatici, the Depressor anguli oris, and the Orbicularis. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Levator labii superioris and the infraorbital vessels and nerves. By its deep surface with the superior maxilla, the Buccinator, and the mucous membrane. The Zygomaticus Major is a slender fasciculus, which arises from the malar bone, in front of the zygomatic suture, and descending obliquely downwards and inwards, is inserted into the angle of the mouth, where it blends with the fibres of the Orbi- cularis and Depressor anguli oris. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the subcutaneous adipose tissue. By its deep surface, with the malar bone, and the Masseter and Buccinator muscles. The Zygomaticus Minor arises from the malar bone, immediately behind the maxillary suture, and passing downwards and inwards, is continuous with the outer margin of the Levator labii superioris. It lies in front of the preceding. Relations. . By its superficial surface, with the integument and the Orbicularis palpebrarum above. By its deep surface with the Levator anguli oris. Nerves. This group of muscles is supplied by the facial nerve. Actions. The Levator labii superioris is the proper elevator of the upper lip, carrying it at the same time a little outwards. The Levator anguli oris raises the angle of the mouth and draws it inwards ; whilst the Zygomatici raise the upper lip and draw it somewhat outwards, as in laughing. 7. Inferior Maxillary Region. (Fig. 150.) Levator Labii Inferioris (Levator menti.) Depressor Labii Inferioris (Quadratus menti). Depressor Anguli Oris (Triangularis menti). Dissection. The Muscles in this region may be dissected by making a vertical incision through the integument from the margin of the lower lip to the chin: a second incision should then he carried along the margin of the lower jaw as far as the angle, and the integument carefully removed in the direction shown in fig. 149. The Levator Labii Lnferioris {Levator menti) is to be dissected by everting the lower lip and raising the mucous membrane. It is a small conical fasciculus, placed on the side of the framum of the lower lip. It arises from the incisive fossa, ex- ternal to the symphysis of the lower jaw : its fibres descend to be inserted into the integument of the chin. Relations. On its inner surface, with the mucous membrane ; in the median line, it is blended with the muscle of the opposite side; and on its outer side, with the Depressor labii inferioris.