533' BRACHIAL PLEXUS. scalenus into a common trunk. Thus two large trunks are formed, the upper one by the union of the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical; and the lower one by the eighth cervical and first dorsal. These two trunks accompany the subclavian artery to the axilla, lying upon its outer side, the trunk formed by the union of the last cervical and first dorsal 288.—Plan of the Brachial Plexus. Supra -Scapular of Clavicle being nearest to the vessel. Opposite the clavicle, and sometimes in the axilla, each of these cords gives off a fasciculus, by the union of which a third trunk is formed, so that in the middle of the axilla three cords are found, one lying on the outer side of the axillary artery, one on its inner side, and one be- hind.* The brachial plexus communicates with the cervical plexus by a branch from the fourth to the fifth nerve, and with the phrenic nerve by a branch from the fifth cervical, which joins that nerve on the Anterior scalenus muscle : the cervical and first dor- sal nerves are also joined by filaments from the mid- dle and inferior cervical ganglia of the sympathetic, close to their exit from the intervertebral foramina. Relations. In the neck, the brachial plexus lies at first between the Anterior and Middle scaleni muscle, and then above and to the outer side of the subclavian artery : it then passes behind the clavicle and Subclavius muscle, lying upon the first serration of the Serratus magnus, and the Subscapularis muscles. In the axilla it is placed on the outer side of the first portion of the axillary artery; it surrounds the artery in the second part of its course, one cord lying upon the outer side of that vessel, one on the inner side, and one behind it; and at the lower part of the axillary space gives off its terminal branches to the upper extremity. Branches. The branches of the brachial plexus are arranged into two groups, viz., those given off above the clavicle, and those below that bone. BLANCHES ABOVE THE CLAVICLE. Communicating. Posterior thoracic. Muscular. Suprascapular. * This is the accepted description of the plexus ; but it is also very common for the third, or posterior, cord to he formed by the seventh cervical nerve, running undivided, and receiv- ing a branch from each of the other cords, or the seventh nerve may bifurcate, one branch of bifurcation joining each of the other cords. From these two cords the third trunk is formed, a's described in the text. Mr. R. C. Lucas describes an arrangement differing slightly from that last mentioned, and which he regards as the common one, having met with it in 27 out of 30 dissections. The seventh nerve bifurcates, and so does the united cord of the fifth and sixth nerves. One of the branches of bifurcation of the seventh nerve, along with that of the united fifth and sixth nerves, forms the external cord of the plexus. The other branch of bifurcation of the united fifth and sixth along with that of the seventh nerve forms a large cord, which receives a small branch from the united eighth cervical and first dorsal to form the posterior cord. The rest of the united eighth cervical and first dorsal nerves is continued as the internal cord. (See Mr. Lucas's paper and drawing in the Guy's Hospital Reports, 1875.) Henle's description is substantially the same.