CRANIAL NERVES. connected in this situation with the auriculo-temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve, and divides into branches, which are distributed over the temple and upper part of the face ; these are divided into three sets, temporal, malar, and infraorbital. The temporal branches cross the zygoma to the temporal region supplying the Attrahens aurem muscle, and join with the temporal branch of the superior maxillary and with the auriculo-temporal branch of the inferior maxillary. The more anterior branches supply the frontal portion of the Occipito-frontalis, and the Orbicularis pal- pebrarum muscle joining with the supraorbital branch of the ophthalmic. The malar branches pass across the malar bone to the outer angle of the orbit, where they supply the Orbicularis and Corrugator supercilii muscles, joining with filaments from the lachrymal and supraorbital nerves : others supply the lower eyelid, joining vrith filaments of the malar branches of the superior maxillary nerve. The infraorbital, of larger size than the rest, pass horizontally forwards to be dis- tributed between the lower margin of the orbit and the mouth. The superficial branches run beneath the skin and above the superficial muscles of the face which they supply ; some supply the lower eyelid and Pyramidalis nasi, joining at the inner angle of the orbit with the infratrochlear and nasal branches of the ophthalmic. The deep branches pass beneath the Levator labii superioris, supply it and the Levator anguli oris, and form a plexus (infraorbital) by joining with the infraorbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve and the buccal branches of the cervico-facial. The Cervico-facial division of the facial nerve passes obliquely downwards and forwards through the parotid gland, where it is joined by branches from the great auricular nerve; opposite the angle of the lower jaw it divides into branches which are distributed on the lower half of the face and upper part of the neck. These may be divided into three sets : buccal, supramaxillary, and inframaxillary. The buccal branches cross the Masseter muscle. They supply the Buccinator and Orbicularis oris, and join with the infraorbital branches of the temporo-facial division of the nerve, and with filaments of the buccal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve, The supramaxillary branches pass forwards beneath the Platysma and Depressor anguli oris, supplying the muscles of the lip and chin, and anastomosing with the mental branch of the inferior dental nerve. The inframaxillary branches run forward beneath the Platysma, and form a series of arches across the side of the neck over the supra-hyoicl region. One of these branches descends vertically to join with the superficial cervical nerve from the cervical plexus; others supply the Platysma. Auditory Nerve. The Auditory Nerve (portio mollis of the seventh pair) is the special nerve of the sense of hearing, being distributed exclusively to the internal ear. The auditory nerve arises by numerous white strise, the linea? ' transversa;, which emerge from the posterior median fissure in the anterior wall, or floor of the fourth ventricle. It is also connected with the grey matter of the medulla, corresponding to the locus cseruleus. According to Foville, the roots of this nerve are connected, on the under surface of the middle peduncle, with the grey substance of the cere- bellum, with the flocculus, and with the grey matter at the borders of the calamus scriptorius. The nerve winds round the restiform body, from which it receives fibres, and passes forwards across the posterior border of the crus cerebelli, in company with the facial nerve, from which it is partially separated by a small artery. It then enters the meatus auditorius, in company with the facial nerve, and, at the bottom of the meatus, divides into two branches, cochlear and vestibular, which are distributed, the former to the cochlea, the latter to the vestibule and semicircular canals. The auditory nerve is very soft in texture (hence the name portio mollis), destitute of neurilemma, and, within the meatus, receives one or two