658 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. duodenal artery descends in front between the same parts. On the posterior aspect of the pancreas is a lobular fold of the gland, which passes transversely to the left behind the superior mesenteric vessels, forming the back part of the canal in which they are contained. It is sometimes detached from the rest of the gland, and is called the lesser pancreas. The lesser end or tail of the pancreas is narrow ; it extends to the left as far as the spleen, and is placed over the left kidney and suprarenal capsule. The body of the pancreas is convex in front, and covered by the ascending layer of the transverse meso-colon and the posterior surface of the stomach. The posterior surface is concave, and has the following structures interposed between it and the first lumbar vertebra : the superior mesenteric artery and vein, the commencement of the vena porta?, the vena cava, the aorta, the left kidney, the suprarenal capsule, and the corresponding renal vessels. The upper border is thick, and has resting upon it, near its centre, the cceliac axis ; the splenic artery and vein are lodged in a deep groove or canal in this border ; and to the right, the first part of the duodenum and the hepatic artery are in relation with it. The lower border, thinner than the upper, is separated from the transverse portion of the duodenum by the superior mesenteric artery and vein ; to the left of these the inferior mesenteric vein ascends behind the pancreas to join the splenic vein. The pancreatic duct, called the canal of Wirsung from its discoverer, extends transversely from left to right through the substance of the pancreas, nearer to its lower than its upper border, and lying nearer its anterior than its posterior surface. In order to expose it, the superficial portion of the gland must be removed. Traced backwards, it is found to commence by an orifice common to it and the ductus com- munis choledochus, upon the summit of an elevated papilla, situated at the inner side of the descending portion of the duodenum, a little below its middle : from this papilla it passes very obliquely through the mucous and muscular coats, separates itself from the ductus communis choledochus, and ascending slightly runs from right to left through the middle of the gland, giving off numerous branches, which com- mence in its lobules. Sometimes the pancreatic duct and ductus communis choledochus open separately into the duodenum. The excretory duct of the lesser pancreas is called the ductus pancreaticus minor; it opens into the main duct near the duodenum, and sometimes separately into that intestine, at a distance of an inch or more from the termination of the principal duct. The pancreatic duct, near the duodenum, is about the size of an ordinary quill; its walls are thin, consisting of two coats, an external fibrous and an internal mucous; the latter is thin, smooth, and furnished, near its termination, with a few scattered follicles. Sometimes the pancreatic duct is double up to its point of entrance into the duodenum. In structure, the pancreas closely resembles the salivary glands; but it is looser and softer in its texture. The fluid secreted by it is almost identical with saliva, but contains no sulphocyanogen. Its uses are to some extent the same as those of the saliva, since it also converts starch into dextrine and grape sugar; but it has two other important functions—;first in the digestion of fat, which it partly emulsifies, so as to render it capable of passing into the lacteals (being in this assisted by the bile), and partly saponifies—the alkaline pancreatic juice forming with the fatty acids a soap which is absorbed by the blood-vessels; second, in the digestion of albuminous and gelati- nous substances, which it converts into peptones. This digestion is accompanied by the formation of various chemical substances, leucin, tyrosin, and indol, to which the odour of the faeces is in great part at least attributable. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the pancreas are derived from the splenic, the pancreatico-cluodenal branch of the hepatic, and the superior mesenteric. Its veins open into the splenic and superior mesenteric veins. Its lymphatics terminate in the lumbar glands. Its nerves are filaments from the splenic plexus.