GENERAL ANATOMY. cxxx stood if we follow as briefly as possible the principal facts relating to the chief parts of which the body consists—viz., the spine, the cranium, the Fig. LXXXJI.—Human embryo in the fourth week. I, amnion removed in part of the dorsal region. 2, umbilical vesicle. 3, omphalomesenteric duct. 4, inferior maxillary tuber- cle of first pharyngeal arch. 5, superior maxillary tubercle from the same arch. 6, second pharyngeal arch. 7, third. 8, fourth. 9, eye. 10, primitive auditory vesicle. 11, anterior extremity. 12, posterior extremity. 13, umbilical cord. 14, heart. 15, liver. pharyngeal cavity, mouth, &c, the nervous centres, the organs of the senses, the circulatory system, the alimentary canal and its appendages, the organs of respiration, and the genito-urinary organs.* The reader is also referred to the chronological table of the development of the foetus at the end of the Introduction. Development of the spine.—The external layer of the blastoderm (epi- blast), as shown in fig. LXXV., dips down to form the medullary groove, which is afterwards converted into the medullary canal, and in this canal the nervous centres are formed out of epiblastic elements. At the same time the chorda dorsalis, or notochord, is formed out of the mesoblast. This is a rod or cylinder composed of a transparent tube containing em- bryonic cells (tig. LXXXIIL), and extending from the cephalic to the caudal extremity of the foetus below the spinal cord. On either side of this are laid down also from the mesoblast a series of square-shaped bodies called the protovertebrae. Theprotovertebra? or primitive vertebra? appear early, as dark spots, which soon enlarge and form quadrangular laminae, one on j either side of the chorda dorsalis, commencing in the cervical region. These spread out and bend towards each other, so as to come into contact around the spinal canal and enclose it, forming the rudiment of the future bodies and arches of the vertebrae, as well as of the vertebral and other \ muscles. This primitive vertebral column is, however, entirely membranous j until about the sixth or seventh week, when cartilage begins to be de- J posited in it. The protovertebrae do not coincide with the permanent vertebrae. On the contrary, each primitive vertebra separates into two parts, the upper part belonging to the permanent vertebra, which lies above the point of separation, and the lower one to that below (fig. j * The scope of this work only permits the briefest possible reference to these subjects. Those who wish to study the subject of embryology in more detail are referred to Kolliker's j Entwickdungsgeschichte, to the chapters on the development of the various organs in the 8th edition of Quain's Anatomy, or to the works of Prof. Dalton and of Foster and Balfour. 12