ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 628 right and left inguinal. following (fig. 344) :— The viscera contained in these different regions are the Right Hypochondriac. The right lobe of the liver and the gall-bladder, the duodenum, pancreas, hepatic flexure of the colon, upper part of the right kidney, and the right su- prarenal capsule. Epigastric Region. The middle and pyloric end of the stomach, left lobe of the liver and lobulus Spigelii, and the pancreas. Left Hypochondriac. The splenic end of the stomach, the spleen and ex- tremity of the pancreas, the splenic flexure of the colon, upper half of the left kidney, and the left suprarenal capsule. Left Lumbar. Descending colon, part Right Lumbar. Umbilical Region. Ascending colon, lower The transverse colon, part of the right kidney, part of the great omentum of the omentum, lower and some convolutions of and mesentery, transverse part of the left kidney, and part of the duodenum, and some convolutions of the some convolutions of the small intestines, jejunum and ileum. the small intestines. Right. Inguinal. Hypogastric Region. Left Inguinal. The caecum, appendix Convolutions of the Sigmoid flexure of the caeci, and ureter. small intestines, the blad- colon, and ureter. der in children, and in adults if distended, and the uterus during preg- nancy. The Peritoneum. The Peritoneum (Tr^pireu eir, to extend around) is a serous membrane; and, like all membranes of this class, a shut sac. In the female, however, it is not completely closed, the Fallopian tubes communicating with it by their free extremities ; and thus the serous membrane is continuous with their mucous lining. The peritoneum partially invests all the viscera contained in the abdominal and pelvic cavities, forming the visceral layer of the membrane; it is then reflected upon the internal surface of the parietes of those cavities, forming the parietal layer. The free surface of the peritoneum is smooth, moist, and covered by a thin squamous epithelium ; its attached surface is rough, being connected to the viscera and inner surface of the parietes by means of areolar tissue called the subperitoneal areolar tissue. The parietal portion is loosely connected with the fascia lining the abdomen and pelvis; but more closely to the under surface of the Diaphragm, and in the middle line of the abdomen. In order to trace the reflections of this membrane (fig. 345), the abdomen having been opened, the liver should be raised and supported in that position, and the stomach should be depressed, when a thin membranous layer is seen passing from the transverse fissure of the liver to the upper border of the stomach : this is the lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum. It consists of two delicate layers of peritoneum, an anterior and a posterior, between which are contained the hepatic vessels and nerves. Of these two layers, the anterior should first be traced, and then the posterior. The anterior layer descends to the lesser curvature of the stomach, and covers its anterior surface as far as the great curvature : it descends for some distance in front of the small intestines, and, returning upon itself to the transverse colon, forms the external layer of the great omentum; it then covers the under surface of the trans-