MUSCLES OF THE PENIS. 763 ficial fascia are considered. When this fascia is removed the muscles connected with the penis and urethra will be exposed ; these are, in the middle line, the Accelerator urinse • on each side, the Erector penis, and behind, the Transversus perinsei- The Accelerator urince is placed in the middle line of the perinseum, immediately in front of the anus. It consists of two symmetrical halves, united along the median 432.—The Perinseum. The Integument and Superficial Layer of Superficial Fascia reflected. line by a tendinous raphe. It arises from the central tendon of the perinseum, and from the median raphe in front. From this point its fibres diverge like the plumes of a pen; the most posterior form a thin layer, which are lost on the anterior surface of the triangular ligament; the middle fibres encircle the bulb and adjacent part of the corpus spongiosum, and join with the fibres of the opposite side, on the upper part of the corpus spongiosum, in a strong aponeurosis; the anterior fibres, the longest and most distinct,, spread out over the sides of the corpus cavernosum, to be inserted partly into that body, anterior to the Erector penis, occasionally extend- ing to the os pubis; partly terminating in a tendinous expansion, which covers the dorsal vessels of the penis. The latter fibres are best seen by dividing the muscle longitudinally, and dissecting it outwards from the surface of the urethra. Action. This muscle may serve to accelerate the flow of the urine or semen along the canal of the urethra. The middle fibres are supposed, by Krause, to assist in the erection of the corpus spongiosum, by compressing the erectile tissue of the bulb. The anterior fibres, according to Tyrrel, also contribute to the erection of the penis, as they are inserted into, and continuous with, the fascia of the penis, com- pressing the dorsal vein during the contraction of the muscle. The Erector Penis covers the unattached part of the crus penis. It is an elon- gated muscle, broader in the middle than at either extremity, and situated on either side of the lateral boundary of the perinseum. It arises by tendinous and fleshy fibres from the inner surface of the tuberosity of the ischium, behind the crus penis, from