cxxu GENERAL ANATOMY. distinct groove, the sides and base of which are formed of epiblastic cells (fig. LXXV. a). The margins of the groove then coalesce, first in the middle of the embryo, then towards the cephalic end, which is soon seen to be more dilated than the rest and to present constrictions dividing it imperfectly into three chambers, and lastly at the caudal extremity. Thus a closed tube is formed lined with epiblast and having a covering of the same membrane (fig. LXXV. b). The lining of the tube is developed into the nervous centres, the covering into the epidermis of the back and head. Below this primitive cerebro-spinal canal lies the mesoblast, and from this are developed (i) a continuous rod-shaped body lying below the primitive groove, and called the notochord; (2) on either side a substance divided into a number of square segments (the protovertehrcv), which first make their appearance in the region which afterwards becomes the neck, then further forwards towards the head, and afterwards extend along the body. These protovertebrse, as will be explained hereafter, are not the same as the permanent vertebra?; but they are differentiated partly into the vertebra?, partly into the muscles and true skin, and partl}r into the roots and ganglia of the nerves. On either side of the protovertebrse, the mesoblast splits into two layers, the upper of which, or that lined by epiblast, is called somatopleure, and the lower (lined by hypoblast) splanchnopleure (fig. LXXV. b, 5, 5',). From the former the skeleton, muscles, and true skin of the external ports of the body are derived ; from the latter, the muscular and other meso- blastic portions of the viscera. The space between them is the common pleuro-peritoneal cavity. Whilst the parietes of the body are still unclosed, this common peritoneal cavity is continuous with the space between the amnion and chorion as seen in fig. LXXITI. f. The embryo, which at first seems to be a mere streak, extends longi- tudinally and laterally. As it grows forwards it becomes remarkably curved on itself (cephalic flexure), and a smaller but distinct flexure takes place at the hinder end (caudal flexure). At the same time the sides of the embryo grow and curve towards each other, so that the embryo is aptly compared to a canoe turned over (see fig. LXXVL). The well of the canoe opens freely into the cavity of the yolk-sac. Its walls are of course formed by the three blastodermic membranes, and at the point where the well commences (the future umbilicus) the outer (epiblast), lined by the somatopleural layer of mesoblast, turns back over the canoe on all sides till the folds meet at the point opposite the umbilicus: then the two sides communicate with each other, and thus a closed serous sac, the amnion, is formed (fig. LXXVL). Meanwhile the yolk- sac communicates freely with the interior of the embryo, through the large opening which afterwards becomes the umbilicus, and which we have likened to the well of the canoe (fig. LXXIII. B, c) ; "x" and through this opening the internal blastodermic membrane and the internal or splanch- nopleural division of the mesoblast pass out. In those animals which have no amnion, all three layers pass over the yolk-sac ; but where the amnion exists it separates the external blastodermic layer from the yolk-sac or * The student will remember that in figs. LXXIII., LXXIV., the embryo is represented as lying on its hack ; hut the position in which the spinal column is highest is usually described as the natural one, as in fig. LXXVL