CRANIAL N E ll YES. 506 pericranium over the frontal and parietal bones. They are derived from the cuta- neous branches whilst beneath the muscle. The Nasal nerve is intermediate in size between the frontal and lachrymal, and more deeply placed than the other branches of the ophthalmic. It enters the orbit between the two heads of the External rectus, and passes obliquely inwards across the optic nerve, beneath the Levator palpebral and Superior rectus muscles, to the inner wall of the orbit, where it enters the anterior ethmoidal foramen, immediately below the superior oblique. It then enters the cavity of the cranium, traverses a shallow groove on the front of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and passes clown, through the slit by the side of the crista galli, into the nose, where it divides into two branches, an internal and an external. The internal branch supplies the mucous membrane near the fore part of the septum of the nose. The external branch descends in a groove on the inner surface of the nasal bone, and supplies a few fila- ments to the mucous membrane covering the fore part of the outer wall of the nares as far as the inferior spongy bone; it then leaves the cavity of the nose, between the lower border of the nasal bone and the upper lateral cartilage of the nose, and, pass- ing down beneath the Compressor nasi, supplies the integument of the ala and the tip of the nose, joining with the facial nerve. The branches of the nasal nerve are, the ganglionic, ciliary, and infratrochlear. The ganglionic is a long, slender branch, about half an inch in length, which usually arises from the nasal, between the two heads of the External rectus. It passes forwards on the outer side of the optic nerve, and enters the superior and posterior angle of the ciliary ganglion, forming its superior, or long root. It is sometimes joined by a filament from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, or from the superior division of the third nerve. The long ciliary nerves, two or three in number, are given off from the nasal as it crosses the optic nerve. They join the short ciliary nerves from the ciliary gang- lion, pierce the posterior part of the sclerotic, and, running forwards between it and the choroid, are distributed to the ciliary muscle and iris. The infratrochlear branch is given off just as the nasal nerve passes through the anterior ethmoidal foramen. It runs forwards along the upper border of the Internal rectus, and is joined, beneath the pulley of the Superior oblique, by a filament from the supratrochlear nerve. It then passes to the inner angle of the eye, and supplies the Orbicularis palpebrarum, the integument of the eyelids, and side of the nose, the conjunctiva, lachrymal sac, and caruncula lachrymalis. Ophthalmic Ganglion. (Fig. 279.) Connected with the three divisions of the fifth nerve are four small ganglia, which form the whole of the cephalic portion of the sympathetic. With the first division is connected the ophthalmic ganglion; with the second division, the spheno-palatine, or Meckel's ganglion; and with the third, the otic and submaxillary ganglia. All the four receive sensitive filaments from the fifth, and motor and sympathetic filaments from various sources; these filaments are called the roots of the ganglia. The ganglia are also connected with each other, and with the cervical portion of the sympathetic. The Ophthalmic, Lenticular, or Ciliary Ganglion, is a small, quadrangular flattened ganglion, of a reddish-grey colour, and about the size of a pin's head, situated at the back part of the orbit between the optic nerve and the External rectus muscle, lying generally on the outer side of the ophthalmic artery. It is enclosed in a quan- tity of loose fat, which makes its dissection somewhat difficult. Its branches of communication, or roots, are three, all of which enter its posterior border. One, the long root, is derived from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, and joins its superior angle. The second, the short root, is a short thick nerve, occasionally divided into two parts, which is derived from the branch of the third nerve for the Inferior oblique muscle, and is connected with the inferior angle of the ganglion. The third, the sympathetic root, is a slender filament