489 HIPPOCAMPUS MAJOR. The tcenia semicircularis is a narrow, whitish, semi-transparent band of medullary substance, situated in the depression between the corpus striatum and thalamus opticus. Anteriorly, it descends in connection with the anterior pillar of the fornix; behind, it is continued into the descending horn of the ventricle, where it becomes lost. Its surface, especially at its fore-part, is transparent, and dense in structure, and this was called by Tarinus the horny band. It consists of longi- tudinal white fibres, the deepest of which run between the corpus striatum and thalamus opticus. Beneath it is a large vein (vena corporis striati), which receives numerous small veins from the surface of the corpus striatum and thalamus opticus, and joins the vense Galeni. The choroid plexus is a highly vascular, fringe-like membrane, occupying the margin of the fold of pia mater {velum interpositum), in the interior of the brain. It extends, in a curved direction, across the floor of the lateral ventricle. In front, where it is small and tapering, it communicates with the choroid plexus of the opposite side, through a large oval aperture, the foramen of Monro. Posteriorly, it descends into the middle horn of the lateral ventricle, where it joins with the pia mater through the transverse fissure. In structure, it consists of minute and highly vascular villous processes, the villi being covered by a single layer of epithelium, composed of large round corpuscles, containing, besides a central nucleus, a bright yellow spot. The arteries of the choroid plexus enter the ven- tricle at the descending cornu, and, after ramifying through its substance, send branches into the substance of the brain. The veins of the choroid plexus termi- nate in the venae Galeni. The corpus fimbriatum {tcenia hippocampi) is a narrow, white, tape-like band, situated immediately behind the choroid plexus. It is the lateral edge of the posterior pillar of the fornix, and is attached along the inner border of the hippo- campus major as it descends into the middle horn of the lateral ventricle. It may be traced as fa.- as the pes hippocampi. The thalami optici and fornix will be described when more completely exposed, in a later stage of the dissection of the brain. The middle cornu should now be exposed, throughout its entire extent, by introducing the little linger gently into it, and cutting outwards along the finger through the substance of the hemisphere, which should he removed, to an extent sufficient to expose the entire cavity. The middle, or descending cornu, the largest of the three, traverses the middle lobe of the brain, forming in its course a remarkable curve round the back of the optic thalamus. It passes, at first, backwards, outwards, and downwards, and then curves round the crus cerebri, forwards, and inwards, nearly to the point of the middle lobe, close to the fissure of Sylvius. Its upper boundary is formed by the medullary substance of the middle lobe, and the under surface of the thalamus opticus. Its lower boundary, or floor, presents for examination the following parts : the hippocampus major, pes hippocampi, pes accessorius, corpus fimbriatum, choroid plexus, fascia dentata, transverse fissure. The hippocampus major, or cornu Ammonis (fig. 271), so called from its resem- blance to a ram's horn, is a white eminence, of a curved elongate form, extending along the entire length of the floor of the middle horn of the lateral ventricle. At its lower extremity it becomes enlarged, and presents a number of rounded elevations with intervening depressions, which, from presenting some resemblance to the paw of an animal, is called the pes hippocampi. If a transverse section is made through the hippocampus major (fig 270, 4), it will be seen that this eminence is the inner surface of the convolution of the corpus callosum doubled upon itself like a horn, the white convex portion projecting into the cavity of the ventricle; the grey portion being on the surface of the cerebrum, the edge of which, slightly indented, forms the fascia dentata. The white matter of the hippocampus major is continuous, through the corpus fimbriatum, with the fornix and corpus callosum. The pes accessorius, or eminentia collateralis, has already been mentioned, as a white eminence, varying in size, placed between the hippocampus major and hippocampus minor, at the junction of the posterior with the descending cornu.