TEMPORAL BONE. 33 and rounded; and it leads into a short canal, about four lines in length, which runs directly outwards, and is closed by a vertical plate, divided by a horizontal crest into two unequal portions ; the canal transmits the facial and auditory nerves, and auditory artery, a branch of the basilar : 2. behind the meatus auditorius, a small slit, almost hidden by a thin plate of bone, leading to a canal, the aquseductus vesti- buli, which transmits a small artery and vein, and lodges a process of the dura mater : 3. in the interval between these two openings, but above them, an angular depression which lodges a process of the dura mater, and transmits a small vein into the cancellous tissue of the bone. The inferior or basilar surface (fig. 32) is rough and irregular, and forms part of the base of the skull. Passing from the apex to the base, this surface presents eleven points for examination: 1. a rough surface, quadrilateral in form, which serves partly for the attachment of the Levator palati and Tensor tympani muscles: 2. the large circular aperture of the carotid canal, which ascends at first vertically, and then, making a bend, runs horizontally forwards and inwards ; it transmits the internal carotid artery and the carotid plexus : 3. the aquseductus cochleae, a small triangular opening, lying on the inner side of the latter, close to the posterior border of the petrous portion; it transmits a vein from the cochlea, which joins the internal jugular : 4. behind these openings a deep depression, the jugular fossa, which varies in depth and size in different skulls; it lodges the internal jugular vein, and, with a similar depression on the margin of the occipital bone, forms the foramen lacerum posterius : 5. a small foramen for the passage of Jacobson's nerve (the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal); this foramen is seen in front of the bony ridge dividing the carotid canal from the jugular fossa : 6. a small foramen 011 the outer wall of the jugular fossa, for the entrance of the auricular branch of the pneumogastric (Arnold's) nerve : 7. behind the jugular fossa, a smooth square-shaped facet, the jugular surface; it is covered with cartilage in the recent state, and articulates with the jugular process of the occipital bone : 8. the vaginal process, a very broad sheath-like plate of bone, which extends from the carotid canal to the mastoid process; it divides behind into two lamina?, re- ceiving between them the 9th point for examination, the styloid process; a long sharp spine, about an inch in length, continuous with the vaginal process, between the lamina? of which it is received; it is directed downwards, forwards, and inwards, varies in size and shape, and sometimes consists of several pieces united by cartilage; it affords attachment to three muscles, the Stylo-phaiyngeus, Stylo-glossus, and Stylo-hyoideus • and two ligaments, the stylo-hyoid and stylo-maxillary: 10. the stylo-mastoid foramen, a rather large orifice, placed between the styloid and mastoid processes • it is the termination of the aquseductus Fallopii, and transmits the facial nerve and stylo-mastoid artery: 11. the auricular fissure, situated between the vaginal and mastoid processes, for the exit of the auricular branch of the pneumo- gastric nerve. Borders of the petrous portion. The superior, the longest, is grooved for the superior petrosal sinus, and has attached to it the tentorium cerebelli; at its inner extremity is a semilunar notch, upon which the fifth nerve lies. The posterior border is intermediate in length between the superior and the anterior. Its inner half is marked by a groove, which, when completed by its articulation with the occipital, forms the channel for the inferior petrosal sinus. Its outer half presents a deep excavation—the jugular fossa—which, with a similar notch on the occipital, forms the foramen lacerum posterius. A projecting eminence of bone occasionally stands out from the centre of the notch, and divides the foramen into two parts. The anterior border is divided into two parts—an outer joined to the squamous portion by a suture, the remains of which are distinct; an inner, free, articulating with the spinous process of the sphenoid. At the angle of junction of the petrous and squamous portions are seen two canals, separated from one another by a thin plate of bone, the processus cochleariformis : they both lead into the tympanum, the upper one transmitting the Tensor tympani muscle, the lower one the Eustachian tube. - * D