RIBS WITH VERTEBRAE. 161 fibres of which it is composed have a concentric arrangement, more apparent at the circumference than at the centre. Its surfaces are smooth, and divide the joint into two cavities, each of which is furnished with a separate synovial mem- brane. When the fibro-cartilage is perforated, the synovial membranes are con- tinuous with one another. The Synovial Membranes, two in number, are placed one above, and the other below the fibro-cartilage. The upper one, the larger and looser of the two, is con- tinued from the margin of the cartilage covering the glenoid cavity and eminentia articularis, over the upper surface of the fibro-cartilage. The lower one is inter- posed between the under surface of the fibro-cartilage and the condyle of the jaw, being prolonged downwards a little further behind than, in front. The Nerves of this joint are derived from the auriculo-temporal and masseteric branches of the inferior maxillary. Actions. The movements permitted in this articulation are very extensive. Thus, the jaw may be depressed or elevated, or it may be carried forwards or back- wards, or from side to side. It is by the alternation of these movements performed in succession, that a kind of rotatory movement of the lower jaw upon the upper takes place, which materially assists in the mastication of the food. If the movement of depression is carried only to a slight extent, the condyles remain in the glenoid cavities, their anterior part descending only slightly; but if the depression is considerable, the condyles glide from the glenoid fossae on to the articular eminences, carrying with them the interarticular fibro-cartilages. When this movement is carried to too great an extent, as, for instance, during a convul- sive yawn, dislocation of the condyle into the zygomatic fossa may occur; the interarticular cartilage being carried forwards, and the capsular ligament ruptured. When the jaw is elevated, after forced depression, the condyles and fibro-cartilages are carried backwards into their original position. When the jaw is carried horizontally forwards and backwards, or from side to side, a horizontal gliding movement of the fibro-cartilages and condyles upon the glenoid cavities takes place in the corresponding direction. VI. Articulations of the Ribs with the Vertebra. The articulations of the ribs with the vertebral column may be divided into two sets : i. Those which connect the heads of the ribs with the bodies of the vertebrae ; 2. Those which connect the necks and tubercles of the ribs with the transverse processes. i. Articulations between the Heads of the Ribs and the Bodies of the Vertebra. (Fig. 124.) These constitute a series of ginglymoicl joints, formed by the articulation of the heads of the ribs with the cavities on the contiguous margins of the bodies of the dorsal vertebra?, connected together by the following ligaments :— Anterior Costo-vertebral or Stellate. Capsular. Interarticular. The Anterior Costo-vertebral or Stellate Ligament connects the anterior part of the head of each rib with the sides of the bodies of two vertebrae, and the inter- vertebral disc between them. It consists of three flat bundles of ligamentous fibres, which radiate from the anterior part of the head of the rib. The superior fasciculus passes upwards to be connected with the body of the vertebra above ; the inferior one descends to the body of the vertebra below; and the middle one, the smallest and least distinct, passes horizontally inwards to be attached to the intervertebral substance. Relations. In front, with the thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic, the pleura. M