GENERAL ANATOMY. xxxviii qualification. They are said to be in man about three or four hundred times as uumerous as the white (Harley) ; by others only fifty times as numerous (Todd and Bowman).* They differ very much in size and shape in different animals. In man their size varies considerably, even in the same drop of blood, between the limits of 40]0p and 7,-gVo °f an inch in diameter, the average being about -^oo (Todd and Bowman). They are circular discs, bi-concave in profile, having a slight central depression, with a Fig'- I.—Human blood-glo- raised border (as seen in Fig. I. b). Their colour ™XL-h h*™&oT the appears of a faint yellow when they are seen side; c, united in rou- singly, but it is to their aggregation that the ***f\ *> rendered sphe- to J' &t3 & rical by water: e, de- blood owes its red hue. Human blood-discs pre- colourised by the same; sent no trace of a nucleus. They consist of a £ e^°°0^?^ules dmmk tough elastic transparent stroma uniformly per- 5 evaporation, vaded by a colouring matter called haemoglobin. When the blood is circulating, under the micro- scope, in one of the lower animals, the blood- globules are seen to be separate from each other, and are also separated from the wall of the vessel by an interval or 6 lumen.' Doubtless the same is the case in the human body; but when drawn and examined on a slide without reagents, the blood- globules often collect into heaps like rouleaux of coin (Fig. I. c). During life they may be also seen to change their shape under pressure so as to adapt themselves to some extent to the size of the vessel. Their shape is very soon influenced by the medium in which they are placed, and by the specific gravity of that medium. In water they swell up, lose their colour, and cease to be visible, leaving the white corpuscles in the field. Solutions of salt or sugar, denser than the serum, give them a stellate appearance; and the usual shape may be restored by diluting the solution to the proper point. A solution of the proper strength merely separates the blood-globules mechanically, without changing their shape. There can be no doubt that the difference in colour between arterial and venous blood must be due to some minute difference in the red blood- globules ; and it is also in the highest degree probable that the chemical differences between these two kinds of blood are due, in part at least, to such differences ; but the change has not hitherto been rendered per- ceptible either to the microscope or to chemical analysis. At the same time, the researches of Professor Stokes f show that the colouring matter of the blood produces different effects on the solar spectrum, according as it is in a more or less oxidised condition ; and it is in the highest degree probable that the same change in the oxidation of the contents of thf> blood-globules produces the difference of colour between arterial and venous blood. * Ilirt puts the proportion as low as I : 1761 during-fasting-, and 1 : 695 or 1: 429 after food (Kolliker). Venisection, by withdrawing- so much larger a proportion of the red globules, and also by favouring- the absorption of lymphatic fluid into the blood, much increases the relative proportion of the white corpuscles, so that Kolliker asserts that in the horse, after enormous venisection (up to 50 lbs.), the coloured and colourless corpuscles appear equally numerous. t Proceedings of Royal Society, 1864.