lxxxi SPINAL COED. Within the cervix, and along its outer border, are several thick bun- dles of longitudinal fibres, represented in tig. XLII. by the dark spots ; other bundles of the same kind may be seen in the grey substance along the line of junction of the caput with the cervix cornu. (Fig. XLIII.) The anterior horn of the grey substance in the cervical and lumbar swellings, where it gives origin to the nerves of the extremities, is much larger than in any other region, and contains several distinct groups of Fig. XLIV.—Longitudinal section of the white and grey substance of the spinal cord, through the middle of the lumbar enlargement. Mag. 14 diam.—J. L. Olaeke del. Anb GoLumn Fig. XLV.—Transverse section through the white matter of the spinal cord of a calf, magnified about 300 diameters. In the upper part are shown two isolated flattened nucleated cells of the neuro- glia, under a somewhat higher power than the rest. In the bulk of the figure the nerve fibres are seen in transverse section. They are of different sizes, and possess a laminated medullary sheath sur- rounding the axis-cylinder; which was deeply stained in the preparation, and is here represented by a black dot. The nerve-fibres are embedded in the neuroglia. This contains, in a matrix, which appears sometimes granular, sometimes homogene- ous, numerous elastic fibrils, seen here in transverse section as minute dots, on account of their having a course parallel to the long axis of the cord. Amongst the neuroglia are here seen two branched connective tissue-cells — neuroglia-cells. (Klein and Noble Smith.) A/i/r Jico's large and variously-shaped cells. This is well shown on comparing the above figures. The tractus intermedio-lateralis (fig. XLII.) extends from the upper part of the lumbar to the lower part of the cervical enlargement, and consists of variously-shaped cells, which are smaller than those of the anterior cornu. In the neck, above the cervical enlargement, a similar tract reap- pears, and is traversed by the lower part of the spinal accessory nerve. On transverse sections of the cord (fig. XLV.), the longitudinal fibres of the white matter form a very striking object, being seen as minute dark dots, surrounded by a white area, and this again by a dark circle. The dot in the centre is the axis-cylinder, the white area the substance of Schwann, and the dark circle the tubular membrane of the fibres, which seems to consist of several lamina?. Externally the neuroglia is seen to form a delicate connective sheath round the outer surface of the cord, from which numerous septa pass in to separate the respective bundles of fibres. Small