ARTERIES. 332 viscera of the thoracic and abdominal cavities are transposed. Less frequently, the aorta, after arching over the root of the right lung, is directed to its usual position on the left side of the spine, this peculiarity not being accompanied by any transposition of the viscera. In Conformation. The aorta occasionally divides, as in some quadrupeds, into an ascending and a descending trunk, the former of which is directed vertically upwards, and subdivides into three branches, to supply the head and upper extremities. Sometimes the aorta sub- divides soon after its origin into two branches, which soon reunite. In one of these cases, the oesophagus and trachea were found to pass through the interval left by their division; this is the normal condition of the vessel in the reptilia. Surgical Anatomy. Of all the vessels of the arterial system, the aorta, and more especially its arch, is most frequently the seat of disease ; hence it is important to consider some of the consequences that may ensue from aneurism of this part. It will be remembered, that the ascending part of the arch is contained in the pericardium, just behind the sternum, being crossed at its commencement by the pulmonary artery and right auricular appendix, and having the root of the right lung behind, the vena cava on the right side, and the pulmonary artery and left auricle on the left side. , Aneurism of the ascending aorta, in the situation of the aortic sinuses, in the great majority of cases, afreets the right coronary sinus ; this is mainly owing to the fact that the regurgitation of blood upon the sinuses takes place chiefly on the right anterior aspect of the vessel. As the aneurismal sac enlarges, it may compress any or all of the structures in immediate proximity with it, but chiefly projects towards the right anterior side ; and, consequently, interferes mainly with those structures that have a corresponding relation with the vessel. In the majority of cases, it bursts into the cavity of the pericardium, the patient suddenly drops down dead, and, upon a post-mortem examination, the pericardial sac is found full of blood: or it may compress the right auricle, or the pulmonary artery, and adjoining part of the right ventricle, and open into one or the other of these parts, or may press upon the superior cava. Aneurism of the ascending aorta, originating above the sinuses, most frequently impli- cates the right anterior wall of the vessel; this is probably mainly owing to the blood being impelled against this part. The direction of the aneurism is also chiefly towards the right of the median line. If it attains a large size and projects forwards, it may absorb the sternum and the cartilages of the ribs, usually on the right side, and appear as a pulsating tumour on the front of the chest, just below the manubrium; or it may burst into the peri- cardium, or may compress, or open into the right lung, the trachea, bronchi, or oesophagus. Regarding the transverse part of the arch, the student is reminded that the vessel lies on the trachea, the oesophagus, and thoracic duct; that the recurrent laryngeal nerve winds around it; and that from its upper part are given off three large trunks, which supply the head, neck, and upper extremities. Now an aneurismal tumour taking origin from the posterior part or right aspect of the vessel, its most usual site, may press upon the trachea, impede the breathing, or produce cough, haemoptysis, or stridulous breathing, or it may ultimately burst into that tube, producing fatal haemorrhage. Again, its pressure on the laryngeal nerves may give rise to symptoms which so accurately resemble those of laryngitis, that the operation of tracheotomy has in some cases been resorted to, from the supposition that disease existed in the larynx; or it may press upon the thoracic duct and destroy life by inanition; or it may involve the oesophagus, producing dysphagia; or may burst into the oesophagus, when fatal haemorrhage will occur. Again, the innominate artery, or the left carotid, or subclavian, may be so obstructed by clots, as to produce a weakness, or even a disappearance, of the pulse in one or the other wrists; or the tumour may present itself at or above the manubrium, generally either in the median line, or to the right of the sternum, and may simulate an aneurism of one of the arteries of the neck. Aneurism affecting the descending part of the arch is usually directed backwards and to the left side, causing absorption of the vertebras and corresponding ribs ; or it may press upon the trachea, left bronchus, oesophagus, and the right and left lungs, generally the latter. When rupture of the sac occurs, it usually takes place into the left pleural cavity ; less frequently into the left bronchus, the right pleura, or into the substance of the lungs or trachea. In this form of aneurism, pain is almost a constant and characteristic symptom, referred to either the back or chest, and usually radiating from the spine around the left side. This symptom depends upon the aneurismal sac compressing the intercostal nerves against the bone. Branches of the Arch of the Aorta (Figs. 209, 210). The branches given off from the arch of the aorta are five in number : two of small size from the ascending portion, the right and left coronary, and three of large size from the transverse portion, the innominate artery, the left common carotid, and the left subclavian. Peculiarities. Position of the Branches. The branches, instead of arising from the highest part of the arch (their usual position), may be moved more to the right, arising from the