VESICULA SEMINALES. form, the broad end being directed backwards, and the narrow end forwards towards the prostate. They measure about two and a half inches in length, about five lines in breadth, and two or three lines in thickness. They vary, however, in size, not only in different individuals, but also in the same individual on the two sides. Their upper surface is in contact with the base of the bladder, extending from near the termination of the ureters to the base of the prostate gland. Their tinder surface rests upon the rectum, from which they are separated by the recto-vesical fascia. Their posterior extremities diverge from each other. Their anterior extremities are pointed, and converge towards the base of the prostate gland, where each joins with the corresponding vas deferens to form the ejaculatory duct. Along the inner mar- gin of each vesicula runs the enlarged and convoluted vas deferens. The inner border* of the vesicuke, and the corresponding vas deferens, form the lateral boundary of a triangular space, limited behind by the recto-vesical peritoneal fold ; the portion of the 418.—Base of the Bladder, with the Vasa Deferentia and Vesicular Seminales. bladder included in this space rests on the rectum, and corresponds with thetrigonum vesicae in its interior. Structure. Each vesicula consists of a single tube, coiled upon itself, and giving off several irregular csecal diverticula; the separate coils, as wTell as the diverticula, being connected together by fibrous tissue. When uncoiled, this tube is about the diameter of a quill, and varies in length from four to six inches ; it terminates posteriorly in a cul-de-sac, its anterior extremity becomes constricted into a narrow straight duct, which joins on its inner side with the corresponding vas deferens, and forms the ejaculatory duct. The ejaculatory ducts, two in number, one on each side, are formed by the junction of the duct of the vesicula seminalis with the vas deferens. Each duct is about three-quarters of an inch in lengthj it commences at the base of the prostate, and runs forwards and upwards in a canal in its substance, and along the side of the utriculus, to terminate by a separate slitdike orifice upon or within the margins of the sinus pocularis. The ducts diminish in size, and converge towards their termination. Structure. The vesiculse seminales are composed of three coats: an external or fibro-cellular, derived from the recto-vesical fascia; a middle or fibrous coat, which is firm, dense, fibrous in structure, somewhat elastic, and contains, according to E. H. Weber, muscular fibres; and an internal or mucous coat, which is pale, of a whitish-