THE KIDNEYS. 709 Hence although the two limbs of Henle's loops differ much in size, their bore is almost similar, owing to the different thickness of their epithelial lining. The Renal Blood-vessels: their origin, course, and distribution. The kidney is plentifully supplied with blood by the renal artery, a large offset of the abdominal aorta, which enters the sinus through the hilum, dividing in its passage through the latter into four or five branches. These, whilst in the sinus, give off a few twigs for the nutrition of the surrounding tissues, and terminate in the arterice propria} renales, which enter the kidney proper in the columns of Bertini. Two of these pass to each pyramid of Malpighi and run along its sides for its entire length, giving off as they advance the afferent vessels of the Malpighian bodies in the columns. Having arrived at the bases of the pyramids, they make a bend in their course, so as to lie between the bases of the pyramids and the cortical arches, where they break up into two distinct sets of branches devoted to the supply of the re- maining portions of the kidney. The^rs^ set, the interlobular arteries (figs. 407, 408, b), are given off at right angles from the side of the arterice proprise renales looking towards the cortical 407.—Diagrammatical Sketch of 408.—A portion of fig. 407 enlarged. Kidney. (The references are the same.) A a. Proper renal artery and vein, the former giving off the renal afferents, the latter receiving the renal efferents. B b. Interlobular artery and vein, the latter commencing from the stellate veins, and receiving brandies from the plexus around ihe tubuli contorti, the former giving off renal afferents. C. Straight tube, surrounded by tubuli contorti, -with which it communicates, forming a pyramid of Ferrein, as more fully shown in fig. 403. D. Margin of medullary substance. E E B. Beceiving tubes, cut off. F/. Arte- rioles et vense rectas, the latter arising from (G-) the plexus at the medullary apex. substance, and passing directly outwards between the pyramids of Ferrein, supply the capsule, terminating in the stellate plexus of veins beneath that structure. In their outward course they support the Malpighian bodies by supplying them with afferent vessels, which, having pierced the capsule, end in the Malpighian tufts. From each tuft the corresponding renal efferent arises, which, having made its egress from the capsule near to the point where the afferent entered, anastomoses with other efferents from other tufts, and contributes to form a dense venous plexus around the urinary tubes adjacent. The second set from the arterise propria} renales are for the supply of the medullary pyramids, which they enter at their bases; and passing through their substance straight to their apices, terminate in the venous plexuses found in that situation. They are called the arteriolce rectce (figs. 407, 408, f). The Renal Veins arise from three sources : the veins beneath the capsule, the plexuses around the tubuli contorti in the cortical arches, and the plexuses situated at the apices of the pyramids of Malpighi. The veins beneath the capsule are