535 MUSCULOCUTANEOUS. 289.—Cutaneous Nerves of Right Upper Extremity. Anterior View. The Subscapular N erves, three in number, supply the Subscapulaiis, Teres major, and Latissimus dorsi muscles. The tipper subscapular nerve, the smallest, enters the upper part of the Sub-scapu- laris muscle. The lower subscapular nerve enters the axillary border of the Subscapulaiis, and terminates in the Teres major. The latter muscle is sometimes supplied by a separate branch. The long subscapular, the largest of the three, descends along the lower border of the Subscapulars to the Latissimus dorsi, through which it may be traced as far as its lower border. The Circumflex Nerve (fig. 292) sup- plies some of the muscles, and the integu- ment of the shoulder, and the shoulder- joint. It arises from the posterior cord of the brachial plexus, in common with the musculo-spiral nerve. It passes down behind the axillary artery, and in front of the Subscapulaiis ; and, at the lower border of that muscle, passes backwards, and divides into two branches. The upper branch, winds round the neck of the humerus, beneath the Deltoid, with the posterior circumflex vessels, as far as the anterior border of that muscle, supplying it, and giving off cutaneous branches, which pierce it to ramify in the integument covering its lower part. The lower branch, at its origin, distri- butes filaments to the Teres minor and back part of the Deltoid muscles. Upon the filament to the former muscle a gan- gliform enlargement usually exists. The nerve then pierces the deep fascia, and supplies the integument over the lower twO-thirds of the posterior surface of the Deltoid, as well as that covering the long- head of the Triceps. The circumflex nerve, before its division, gives off an articular filament, which enters the shoulder-joint below the Sub- scapularis. The Musculo-Cutaneous Nerve (fig. 291) (external cutaneous, perjorans Cas- serii), supplies some of the mu-scles of the arm, and the integument of the fore arm. Tt arises from the outer cord of the brachial plexus, opposite the lower border of the Pectoralis minor. It then perforates the Coraco-brachialis muscle, and passes obliquely between the Biceps and Brachialis anticus, to the outer side of the arm, a little above the elbow, where it perforates the deep fascia and becomes cutaneous. This nerve, in its course through the arm, supplies the Coraco-brachialis, Biceps, and Brachialis anticus muscles, besides sending some filaments to the elbow-joint and humerus.