595 TYMPANUM. its circumference, for the attachment of the cartilage of the pinna. Its vertical transverse section is oval, the greatest diameter being from above downwards. The front and lower parts of this canal are formed by a curved plate of bone, which, in the foetus, exists as a separate ring (tympanic bone), incomplete at its upper part. The skin lining the meatus is very thin, adheres closely to the cartilaginous and osseous portions of the tube, and covers the surface of the membrana tympani, form- ing its outer layer. After maceration, the thin pouch of epidermis, when withdrawn, preserves the form of the meatus. The skin near its orifice is furnished with hairs and sebaceous glands. In the thick subcutaneous tissue of the cartilaginous part of the meatus are numerous ceruminous glands, which secrete the ear-wax : their ducts open on the surface of the skin. The arteries supplying the meatus are branches from the posterior auricular, internal maxillary, and temporal. The nerves are chiefly derived from the auriculo-temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve. Middle Ear, or Tympanum. The middle ear, or tympanum, is an irregular cavity, compressed from without inwards, and situated within the petrous bone. It is placed above the jugular fossa, the carotid canal lying in front, the mastoid cells behind, the meatus auditorius ex- ternally, and the labyrinth internally. It is filled with air, and communicates with the pharynx by the Eustachian tube. The tympanum is traversed by a chain of movable bones, which connect the membrana tympani with the labyrinth, and serve to convey the vibrations communicated to the membrana tympani across the cavity of the tympanum to the internal ear. The cavity of the tympanum measures about five lines from before backwards, three lines in the vertical direction, and between two and three in the transverse, being a little broader behind and above than it is below and in front. It is bounded externally by the membrana tympani and meatus; internally, by the outer surface of the internal ear; and communicates, behind, with the mastoid cells; and, in front, with the Eustachian tube and canal for the Tensor tympani. Its roof and floor are formed by thin osseous laminae, which connect the squamous and petrous portions of the temporal bone. The roof is broad, flattened, and formed of a thin plate of bone, which separates the cranial and tympanic cavities. The floor is narrow, and corresponds to the jugular fossa, which lies beneath. The outer wall is formed by the membrana tympani, a small portion of bone being seen above and below this membrane. It presents three small apertures : the iter chordae posterius, the Glaserian fissure, and the iter chordae anterius. The aperture of the iter chorda? posterius is behind the aperture for the membrana tympani, close to its margin, on a level with its centre; it leads into a minute canal, which descends in front of the aquseductus Fallopii, and terminates in that canal near the stylo-mastoid foramen. Through it the chorda tympani nerve enters the tympanum. The Glaserian fissure opens just above and in front of the orifice of the membrana tympani; in this situation it is a mere slit about a line in length. It gives passage to the long process of the malleus, the Laxator tympani muscle, and some tympanic vessels. The aperture of the iter chordm anterius is seen just above the preceding fissure; it leads into a canal (canal of Huguier), which runs parallel with the Glaserian fissure. Through it the chorda tympani nerve leaves the tympanum. The internal wall of the tympanum (fig. 321) is vertical in direction, and looks directly outwards. It presents for examination the following parts :— Fenestra ovalis. Badge of the Aquseductus Fallopii. Fenestra rotunda. Pyramid. Promontory. Opening for the Stapedius. Q Q 2