555 GREAT SCIATIC. the sacral plexus. It issues from the pelvis below the Pyriformis muscle, descends beneath the Gluteus maximus with the sciatic artery, and at the lower border of that muscle passes along the back part of the thigh, beneath the fascia lata, to the lower part of the popliteal region, where it pierces the fascia and becomes cuta- neous. It then accompanies the external saphenous vein below the middle of the leg, its terminal filaments communicating with the external saphenous nerve. The branches of the small sciatic nerve are muscular (inferior gluteal) and cutaneous. The inferior gluteal consist of several large branches given off to the under surface of the Gluteus maximus, near its lower part. The cutaneous branches consist of two groups, internal and ascending. The internal cutaneous branches are distributed to the skin at the upper and inner side of the thigh, on its posterior aspect. One branch, longer than the rest, the inferior pudendal, curves forward below the tuber ischii, pierces the fascia lata on the outer side of the ramus of the ischium, and is distributed to the integument of the scrotum, communicating with the superficial perineal and inferior hsemor- rhoidal nerves. The ascending cutaneous branches consist of two or three filaments, which turn upwards round the lower border of the Gluteus maximus, to supply the integument covering its surface. One or two filaments occasionally descend along the outer side of the thigh, supplying the integument as far as the middle of that region. Two or three branches are given off from the lesser sciatic nerve as it descends beneath the fascia of the thigh ; they supply the integument of the back part of the thigh, popliteal region, and upper part of the leg. The Great Sciatic Nerve (fig. 298) supplies nearly the whole of the integument of the leg, the muscles of the back of the thigh, and those of the leg and foot. It is the largest nervous cord in the body^ measuring three quarters of an inch in breadth, and is the continuation of the lower part of the sacral plexus. It passes out of the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, below the Pyriformis muscle. It descends between the trochanter major and tuberosity of the ischium, along the back part of the thigh to about its lower third, where it divides into two large branches, the internal and external popliteal nerves. This division may take place at any point between the sacral plexus and the lower third of the thigh. When the division occurs at the plexus, the two nerves descend together, side by side; or they may be separated, at their commencement, by the interposition of part or the whole of the Pyriformis muscle. As the nerve descends along the back of the thigh, it rests at first upon the External rotator muscles, together with the small sciatic nerve and artery, being covered by the Gluteus maximus; lower down, it lies upon the Adductor magnus, and is covered by the long head of the Biceps. The branches of the nerve, before its division, are articular and muscular. The articular branches arise from the upper part of the nerve ; they supply the hip-joint, perforating its fibrous capsule posteriorly. These branches are sometimes derived from the sacral plexus. The muscular branches are distributed to the Flexors of the leg : viz., the Biceps, Semitendinosus, and Semimembranosus, and a branch to the Adductor magnus. These branches are given off beneath the Biceps muscle. "The Internal Popliteal Nerve, the larger of the two terminal branches of the great sciatic, descends along the back part of the thigh, through the middle of the popliteal space, to the lower part of the Popliteus muscle, where it passes with the artery beneath the arch of the Soleus, and becomes the posterior tibial. It lies at first very superficial, and at the outer side of the popliteal vessels; opposite the knee-joint, it is in close relation with the vessels, and crosses the artery to its inner side. The branches of this nerve are articular, muscular, and a cutaneous branch, the external or short saphenous nerve. The articular branches, usually three in number, supply the knee-joint : two of