CHOROID AND IRIS. 58' The internal or pigmentary layer is a delicate membrane, consisting of a single layer of hexagonal nucleated cells, loaded with pigment-granules, and applied to each other, so as to resemble a tesselated pavement. Each cell contains a nucleus and is filled with grains of pigment, which are in greater abundance at the circum- ference of the cell. In perfect albinos this epithelium contains no pigment, nor is any present in the star-shaped cells found in the other layers of the choroid.* The ciliary processes should now be examined. They maybe exposed, either by detaching the iris from its connection with the ciliary ligament, or by making a transverse section of the globe, and examining them from behind. The Ciliary processes are formed by the plaiting and folding inwards of the middle and internal layers of the choroid, at its anterior margin, and are received between corresponding foldings of the suspensory ligament of the lens, thus establishing a communication between the choroid and inner tunic of the eye. They are arranged in a circle, behind the iris, round the margin of the lens. They vary between sixty and eighty in number, lie side by side, and may be divided into large 311.—The Arteries of the Choroid and Iris. The Sclerotic has been mostly removed. (Enlarged.) and small; the latter, consisting of about one-third of the entire number, are situated in the spaces between the former, but without regular alternation. The larger processes are each about one-tenth of an inch in length, and hemispherical in shape, their periphery being attached to the ciliary ligament, and continuous with the middle and inner layers of the choroid : the opposite margin is free and rests upon the circumference of the lens. Their anterior surface is turned towards the back of the iris, with the circumference of which it is continuous. The posterior surface is closely connected with the suspensory ligament of the lens. Structure. The ciliary processes are similar in structure to the choroid : the vessels are larger, having chiefly a longitudinal direction. Externally, they are covered with several layers of pigment-cells ; the component cells are small, rounded and full of pigment-granules. The Iris (iris, a rainbow) has received its name from its various colours in different individuals. It is a thin, circular-shaped, contractile curtain, suspended in the aqueous humour behind the cornea, and in front of the lens, being perforated at the nasal side of its centre by a circular aperture, tne pupil, for the transmission of light. By its circumference it is intimately connected with the choroid; externally * The pigmentary layer is now often described as a portion of the Retina in consequence of the method of its development, since it is derived from the same source as that membrane, viz. from the primary ocular vesicle, furnished by the epiblast, while the choroid is derived from the mesoblast.