LITHOTOMY. 769 perinseuni for the extraction of a calculus, the following parts should be avoided. The primary incisions should not be made too near the middle line, for fear of wounding the bulb of the corpus spongiosum or the rectum ; nor too far externally, otherwise the pudic artery may be implicated as it ascends along the inner border of the pubic arch. If the incisions are carried too far forwards, the artery of the bulb may be divided ; if carried too far backwards, the entire breadth of the prostate and neck of the bladder may be cut through, which allows the urine to become in- filtrated behind the pelvic fascia into the loose cellular tissue between the bladder and rectum, instead of escaping externally; diffuse inflammation is consequently set up, and peritonitis from the close proximity of the recto-vesical peritoneal fold is the consequence. If, on the contrary, the prostate is divided in front of the 436.—A Transverse Section of the Pelvis, showhig the Pelvic Fascia. base of the gland, the urine makes its way externally, and there is less danger of infiltration taking place. During the operation it is of great importance that the finger should be passed into the bladder brfore the staff is removed ; if this is neglected, and if the incision made through the prostate and neck of the bladder is too small, great difficulty may be experienced in introducing the finger afterwards ; and in the child, where the connections of the bladder to the surrounding parts are very loose, the force made in the attempt is sufficient to displace the bladder up into the abdomen, out of the reach of the operator. Such a proceeding has not unfrequently occurred, producing the most embarrassing results, and total failure of the operation. It is necessary to bear in mind that the arteries in the perinamrn occasionally take an abnormal course. Thus the artery of the bulb, when it arises, as sometimes happens, from the pudic opposite the tuber ischii, is liable to be wounded in the operation for lithotomy, in its passage forwards to the bulb. The accessory pudic may be divided near the posterior border of the prostate gland, if this is completely cut across ; and the prostatic veins, especially in people advanced in life, are of large size, and give rise, when divided, to troublesome hasmorrhage. 31) [