725 THE SPERMATIC CORD. f jacent parts by delicate areolar tissue, upon which it glides with the greatest facility. I The dartos is very vascular, and consists of a loose areolar tissue, containing , pinstriped muscular fibre. Its contractility is slow, and excited by cold and mechan- Hical stimuli, but not by electricity. The inter columnar fascia is a thin membrane, derived from the margin of the 1 pillars- of the external abdominal ring, during the descent of the testis in the Lfoetus, being prolonged downwards around the surface of the cord and testis. It lis separated from the dartos by loose areolar tissue, which allows of considerable l||;movement of the latter upon it, but is intimately connected with the succeeding 1! jlayers. The cremasteric fascia consists of scattered bundles of muscular fibres (C remaster •Amuscle), derived from the lower border of the internal oblique muscle, during the descent of the testis (p. 747). The fascia propria is a thin membranous layer, which loosely invests the sur- face of the cord." It is a continuation downwards of the infundibuliform process of I (the fascia transversalis, and is also derived during the descent of the testis, in the ■pectus. I The tunica vaginalis is described with the proper covering of the testis. A more ; petailed account of the other coverings of the testis will be found in the description Ipf the surgical anatomy of inguinal hernia. Vessels and Nerves. The arteries supplying the coverings of the testis are : the I superficial and deep external pudic, from the femoral; the superficial perinaeal , |)ranch of the internal pudic; and the cremasteric branch from the epigastric. The .1 veins follow the course of the corresponding arteries. The lymphatics terminate in i. -he inguinal glands. The nerves are : the ilio-inguinal and ilio-hypogastric branches 1 pf the lumbar plexus, the two superficial perinaeal branches of the internal pudic ■perve, the inferior pudendal branch of the small sciatic nerve, and the genital [branch of the genito-crural nerve. The Spermatic Cord extends from the internal abdominal ring, where the I tructures of which it is composed converge, to the back part of the testicle. It is j iiomposed of arteries, veins, lymphatics, nerves, and the excretory duct of the testicle, f Chese structures are connected together by areolar tissue, and invested by the fasciae brought down by the testicle in its descent. In the abdominal wall the cord '( passes obliquely along the inguinal canal, lying at first beneath the Internal oblique, ,nd upon the fascia transversalis ; but nearer the pubes, it rests upon Poupart's • igament, having the aponeurosis of the External oblique in front of it, and the con- I pined tendon behind it. It then escapes at the external ring, and descends nearly ! vertically into the scrotum. The left cord is. rather longer than the right, conse- | [uently the left testis hangs somewhat lower than its fellow. The arteries of the cord are : the spermatic, from the aorta; the artery of the I 'as deferens, from the superior vesical; and the cremasteric, from the epigastric jrtery. The spermatic artery supplies the testicle. On approaching the gland, it gives 1 ff some branches which supply the epididymis, and others which perforate the ' junica albuginea behind, and spread out on its inner surface, or pass through the 1 ibrous septum in its interior, to be distributed on the membranous septa between he lobes. 'j The artery of the vas deferens is a long slender vessel, which accompanies the 'Iras deferens, ramifying upon the coats of that duct, and anastomosing with the 1 'jpermatic artery near the testis. The cremasteric branch from the epigastric supplies the Cremaster muscle, and j'ther coverings of the cord. The spermatic veins leave the back part of the testis, and, receiving branches rom the epididymis, unite to form a plexus {pampiniform plexus), which forms the Ihief mass of the cord. They pass up in front of the vas deferens, and unite to form I* [- single trunk, which terminates, on the right side, in the inferior vena cava, on the I eft side, in the left renal vein. il