ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 624 divided (distal) end be now stimulated, the secretion is again increased. The function then of the Chorda tympani branch of the facial is to diminish the blood pressure, increase the flow of blood, and excite the secretion of watery saliva. On the contrary, stimulation of the sympathetic causes a great contraction of the arteries and a flow of very viscid saliva. If the sympathetic be cut, or the upper ganglion extirpated, the flow of saliva is increased. If both nerves be divided a copious and continuous flow of watery saliva ensues (paralytic secretion). If the gustatory nerve be divided, and its central end stimulated, the same effects are produced as by stimulation of the Chorda tympani. So that the gustatory nerve is regarded as the afferent nerve in the reflex act and the Chorda as the efferent. Mucous Glands. Besides the salivary glands proper, numerous convoluted glands are found in the mouth. They appear to secrete mucus only, which serves to keep the mouth moist during the intervals of the salivary secretion, and which is mixed with that secretion in swallowing. Many of these glands are found at the pos- terior part of the dorsum of the tongue, behind the circumvallate papilla?, and also along its margins as far forward as the apex. Others lie around and in the tonsil between its crypts, and a large number in the soft palate. These glands are of the ordinary compound racemose type. The secretion is more viscid than the saliva, and is distinguished from it by the presence of mucous globules and the absence of ptyalin. Its mechanical uses, how- ever, seem identical with or subordinate to those of the saliva. The Pharynx. The Pharynx is that part of the alimentary canal which is placed behind the nose, mouth, and larynx. It is a musculo-membranous sac, somewhat conical in form, with the base upwards, and the apex downwards, extending from the under surface of the skull to the cricoid cartilage in front, and the fifth cervical vertebra behind. The pharynx is about four inches and a half in length, and broader in the transverse than in the antero-posterior diameter. Its greatest breadth is opposite the cornua of the hyoid bone; its narrowest point at its termination in the oesophagus. It is limited, above, by the basilar process of the occipital bone; below, it is continuous with the oesophagus ; posteriorly, it is connected by loose areolar tissue with the cervical portion of the vertebral column, and the Longi colli and Recti capitis antici muscles ; anteriorly, it is incomplete, and is attached in succession to the internal pterygoid plate, the pterygo-maxillary ligament, the lower jaw, the tongue, hyoid bone, and larynx; laterally, it is connected to the styloid processes and their muscles, and is in contact with the common and internal carotid arteries the internal jugular veins, and the eighth, ninth, and sympathetic nerves, and above, with a small part of the Internal pterygoid muscles. It has seven openings communicating with it; the two posterior nares, the two Eustachian tubes, the mouth, larynx, and oesophagus. The posterior nares are the two large apertures situated at the upper part of the anterior wall of the pharynx. The two Eustachian tubes open one at each side of the upper part of the pharynx, at the back part of the inferior meatus. Below the nasal fossae are the posterior surface of the soft palate and uvula, the large aperture of the mouth, the base of the tongue, the epiglottis, and the cordiform opening of the larynx. The oesophageal opening is the lower contracted portion of the pharynx. Structure. The pharynx is composed of three coats : mucous, fibrous, and mus- cular. The fibrous coat is situated between the mucous and muscular layers, and is called the pharyngeal aponeurosis. It is thick above, where the muscular fibres are wanting, and is firmly connected to the basilar process of the occipital and petrous portion of the temporal bones. As it descends, it diminishes in thickness, and is gradually lost. The mucous coat is continuous with that lining the Eustachian tubes, the nares, the mouth, and the larynx. It is covered by columnar ciliated epithelium, as low