652 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 365. Nerves.—The nerves of the liver are derived from the hepatic plexus of the sympathetic, from the pneumogastric nerves, especially the left, and from the right phrenic. Structure.—The substance of the liver is composed of lobules, held together by an extremely fine areolar tissue, and of the ramifications of the portal vein, hepatic duct, hepatic artery, hepatic veins, lymphatics, and nerves; the whole being invested by a fibrous and a serous coat. The serous coat is derived from the peritoneum, and invests the entire surface of the organ, excepting at the attachment of its various ligaments, and at the bottom of the different fissures, where it is deficient. It is intimately adherent to the fibrous coat. The fibrous coat lies beneath the serous investment, and covers the entire surface of the organ. It is difficult of demonstration, excepting where the serous coat is deficient. At the transverse fissure, it is continuous with the capsule of Glisson; and, on the surface of the organ, with the areolar tissue separating the lobules. The lobules form the chief mass of the hepatic substance; they may be seen either on the surface of the organ, or by making a section through the gland. They are small granular bodies, about the size of a millet-seed, measuring from one twentieth to one tenth of an inch in diameter. If divided longitudinally they have a foliated, and if transversely a polygonal, outline. The bases of the lobules are clustered round the smallest brandies (sublobular) of the hepatic veins to which each is connected by means of a small branch which issues from the centre of the lobule (intralobular). The re- maining part of the surface of each lobule is imperfectly isolated from the surround- ing lobules by a thin stratum of areolar tissue, and by the smaller vessels and ducts. If one of the hepatic veins be laid open, the bases of the lobules may be seen through the thin wall of the vein 011 which they rest, arranged in the form of a tesselated pavement, the centre of each polygonal space presenting a minute aperture, the mouth of a sublobular vein. Each lobule is composed of a mass of cells; of a plexus of biliary ducts; of a venous plexus, formed by branches of the portal vein; of a radicle of an hepatic vein (intralobular) ; of minute arteries ; and, probably, of nerves and lymphatics. The hepatic cells form the chief mass of the substance of a lobule, and lie in the interspaces of the capillary plexus, being probably contained in a tubular network, which according to some authors forms the origin of the biliary ducts. The portal vein carries the blood to the liver, from which the bile is secreted; the hepatic vein carries the superfluous blood from the liver, and the bile-duct carries the bile secreted by the hepatic cells. The course of the circulation in the liver is best traced in the natural direction, viz. from the vena portae to the hepatic vein, which is a branch of the vena cava. The portal vein (fig. 366) gives off small branches, which, as they ramify between the lobules of the liver, are called the m^rlobular veins, and form a plexus surround- ing the lobules. Branches from this plexus enter the substance of the lobule, forming a capillary network inside it, the ^ralobular capillary plexus. These veins H. Longitudinal section of an hepatic vein. a. Por- tion of the canal from which the vein lias been removed ; b, orifices of ultimate twigs of the vein (sublobular), situated in the centre of the lobules. After Kiernan.