Ivii BONE. can be demonstrated similarly held together by perforating- fibres which are more numerous than in the long bones.* Besides the Haversian canals larger and irregularly shaped spaces are found—Haversian spaces—which are, as it were, a transition from the Haversian canals to the medullary spaces of the cancellous tissue. It seems as if both the medullary spaces and the Haversian spaces are formed by absorption, as we shall try to explain in speaking of the development and growth of bone. These Haversian spaces are found chiefly in growing bones; but they occur also, though in less number, in the adult bones. They have irregular jagged outlines, and the adjoining systems of lacunse and canaliculi are seen to be eaten away by them. When the microscopic structure of bone was first demonstrated, it was believed that the lacunse were solid cells, and their canaliculi solid processes from those cells. Subsequently, when it was seen that the Haversian canals are channels which lodge the vessels of the part, and Fig. XX.—Nucleated bone cells and their processes, contained in the hone-lacunas and their canaliculi respectively. From a section through the vertebra of an adult mouse. (Klein and Noble Smith.) As Fig. XXI.—Section of bone after the re- moval of the earthy matter by the action of acids. the canaliculi and lacunse spaces by which the plasma of the blood, or the blood itself, circulates through the tissue, it was taught that the lacunse were hollow spaces filled during life with that fluid, and only lined (if lined at all) by a delicate membrane* But this view appeal's also to be delusive. Examination of the structure of the bone, when recent, led Virchow to believe that the so-called lacunse are really filled up during life with a nucleated cell, the processes from which pass down the canaliculi—a view which is now universally received. (Fig- XX.) It is by means of these cells that the fluids necessary for nutrition are brought into contact with the ultimate tissue of the bone. The animal part of a bone may be obtained by immersing the bone for a considerable time in dilute mineral acid, after which process the bone comes out exactly the same size and shape as before, but perfectly flexible—so that a long bone (one of the ribs is the usual example) can easily be tied in a knot. If now a transverse section be made (Fig. XXI,), * Quain's Anatomy, 8th edit,, vol. ii. p. 87,