ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 642 adherent, and highly vascular, opposite the Peyerian glands. They are largest and most developed during the digestive process. The large intestine extends from the termination of the ileum to the anus. It is about five feet in length, being one fifth of the whole extent of the intestinal canal. It is largest at its commencement at the caecum, and gradually diminishes as far as the rectum, where there is a dilatation of considerable size, just above the anus. It differs from the small intestine in its greater size, its more fixed position, and its sacculated form. The large intestine, in its course, describes an arch, which sur- rounds the convolutions of the small intestine. It commences in the right iliac fossa, in a dilated part, the caecum.' It ascends through the right lumbar and hypo- chondriac regions to the under surface of the liver; passes transversely across the abdomen, on the confines of the epigastric and umbilical regions, to the left hypo- chondriac region; descends through the left lumbar region to the left iliac fossa, where it becomes convoluted, and forms the sigmoid flexure; finally, it enters the pelvis, and descends along its posterior wall to the anus. The large intestine is divided into the caecum, colon, and rectum. The Caecum (ccecus, blind) (fig. 358) is the large blind pouch, or cul-de-sac, in which the large intestine commences. It is the most dilated part of the tube, measuring about two and a half inches, both in its vertical and transverse diameters. It is situated in the right iliac fossa, immediately behind the anterior abdominal wall, being- retained in its place by the peritoneum, which passes over its anterior surface and sides ; its posterior surface being connected by loose areolar tissue with the iliac fascia. Occasionally it is almost completely surrounded by peritoneum, which forms a distinct fold, the meso-csecum, connecting its back part with the iliac fossa. When this fold exists the caecum obtains considerable freedom of movement. Attached to its lower and back part is the appendix vermiformis, a long, narrow, worm-shaped tube, the rudiment of the lengthened caecum found in all The Large Intestine. 358.—The Caecum and Colon laid open to show the Ileo-Csecal Valve.