cliii DEVELOPMENT OF GENITAL ORGANS. ascertained that they have a common origin.' They are at first larger than the kidneys, but become equal in size about the tenth week, and from that time decrease relatively to the kidney, though they remain throughout foetal life much larger in proportion than in the adult. Meckel gives the proportion as I to 3 at birth, and 1 to 22 in mature life. We must now follow the development of the genital organs in each sex. Female organs.—The ovaries take their origin in the ridge of germ epithelium which has been spoken of above as making its appearance in the intermediate cell-mass ; from the cells of which epithelium, according to the most recent observations, the ova take their origin. These ova are enclosed or encapsuled in a fibrous stroma, developed from the deeper blastema of the same cell-mass, or, according to earlier observers, from a part of the Wolffian body. According to the latest account the only Fig. X0VII1.—Adult ovary, parovarium, and Fallopian tube (from Farre after Kobelt), a, a, Epoophoron (parovarium) formed from the upper part of the Wolffian body ; b, remains of the uppermost tubes sometimes forming hydatids; c, middle set of tubes; d, some lower atrophied tubes ; e, atrophied remains of the AVoltrian duct; f, the terminal bulb or hydatid; h, the Fallopian tube, originally the duct of Miiller ; i, hydatid attached to the extremity ; I, the ovary. remains of the Wolffian body in the complete condition of the female organs are two rudimentary or vestigial structures which can be found in the round ligament near the ovary on careful search—the parovarium, or organ of Rosenmiiller, and the epoophoron. The organ of Rosenmtiller consists of a number of tubes which converge to a transverse portion (the epoophoron), and this is sometimes prolonged into a distinct duct running transversely— the duct of Gaertner— which is much more conspicuous and extends further in some of the lower animals. This is the remains of the Wolffian duct. The Fallopian tube is formed by the portion of the duct of Miiller, which lies above the lumbar ligament of the Wolffian body. This duct is at first completely closed, and its closed extremity remains permanent, forming a small cystic body attached to the fimbriated end of the Fallopian tube, and called the £ hydatid of Morgagni.' Below this, a cleft forms in the duct, and is developed into the fimbriated opening of the Fallopian tube. Below this portion of the duct of Miiller, that body on either side, and the ducts of the Wolffian body, are united together in a structure called