127 PATELLA. mitted from above, and serves an important office in strengthening a part especially liable to fracture. In the lower end, the cancelli spring on all sides from the inner surface of the cylinder, and descend in a perpendicular direction to the articular surface, the cancelli being strongest and having a more accurately perpendicular course above the condyles. Articulations. With three bones : the os innominatum, tibia, and patella. Development (fig. 106). The femur is developed by five centres : one for the shaft, one for each ex- tremity, and one for each trochanter. Of all the long bones, except the clavicle, it is the first to show traces of ossification; this commences in the shaft, at about the fifth week of foetal life, the centres of ossifica- tion in the epiphyses appearing in the following order : First, in the lower end of the bone, at the ninth month of foetal life; from this the condyles and tuberosities are formed; in the head, at the end of the first year after birth; in the great trochanter, during the fourth year; and in the lesser trochanter, between the thirteenth and four- teenth. The order in which the epiphyses are joined to the shaft, is the reverse of that of their appear- ance; their junction does not com- mence until after puberty, the lesser trochanter being first joined, then the greater, then the head, and, lastly, the inferior extremity (the first in which ossification com- menced), which is not united until the twentieth year. Attachment of Muscles. To the great trochanter : the Gluteus medius, Gluteus minimus, Pyriformis, Obturator internus, Obturator externus, Gemellus superior, Gemellus inferior, and Quadratus femoris. To the lesser trochanter : the Psoas magnus, and the Iliacus below it. To the shaft, the Vastus externus, Gluteus maximus, short head of the Biceps, Vastus internus, Adductor magnus, Pectineus, Adductor brevis, Adductor longus, Crureus, and Subcrureus. To the condyles : the Gastrocnemius, Plantaris, and Popliteus. THE LEG. The skeleton of the Leg consists of three bones : the Patella, a large sesamoid bone, placed in front of the knee ; and the Tibia, and Fibula. The Patella. (Figs. 107, jo8.) The Patella is a flat, triangular bone, situated at the anterior part of the knee- joint. It resembles the sesamoid bones, from being developed in the tendon of the Quadriceps extensor, and in its structure, being composed throughout of dense cancellous tissue; but it is generally regarded as analogous to the olecranon process of the ulna, which occasionally exists as a separate piece, connected to the 106.—Plan of the Development of the Femur. By Five Centres.