lxviii GENERAL ANATOMY. elements from the membrane of Krause. The whole space comprised between two adjacent membranes of Krause and the corresponding sarcolemma is called a muscle compartment. Sometimes in the centre of such a compartment a vertical transparent disc is seen ; but this is regarded by this author as an optical effect due to shrinkage of the sarcous ele- ments. Nuclei are seen at various points, lying below the sarco- lemma, and surrounded by protoplasm—forming the muscle corpuscles. The longitudinal strise seen on the muscular fibres are due, according to Klein, to post-mortem, changes, i.e. to the exudation of myosin out of the sarcous elements, so that the primitive fibrils are, according to him, an accidental formation. This form of muscular fibre composes the whole of the voluntary muscles, all the muscles of the ear, those of the larynx, pharynx, tongue, the upper half of the oesophagus, the heart, and the walls of the large veins at the point where they open into it. The fibres of the heart, however, differ in several particulars from those of other striped muscles. They are smaller by about one-third, and their transverse strise are by no means so distinct. Fat-cells are also often found in them to a certain extent, even apart from any obvious disease of the organ. They break up much more readily into their smallest ele- ments. There is also much less (if any) connective tissue separating the bundles of fibres ; and Kolliker has described and figured the ultimate fibres as anastomosing with each other—a fact previously noticed by Leeuwenhoeck. Schweigger-Seidel also describes and figures transverse septa, which divide the fibres into separate nucleated portions (fig. XXXI.). The unstriped muscle, or muscle of organic life, is found in the walls of the hollow viscera, viz. the lower half of the oesophagus and the whole of the remainder of the gastro- intestinal tube; in the trachea and bronchi; in the gall-bladder and ductus communis choledochus ; in the pelvis and calices of the kidney, the ureters, bladder, and urethra; in the female sexual organs, viz. the Fal- lopian tubes, the uterus (enormously de- veloped in pregnancy), the vagina, the broad ligaments, and the erectile tissue of the clitoris ; in the male sexual organs, viz. the dartos scroti, the vas deferens, and epidi- dymis, the vesiculse seminales, the prostate gland, and the corpora cavernosa ; * in the ducts of certain glands, as in Wharton's duct; in the capsule and trabecule of the spleen; in the mucous membranes, forming the muscularis mucosa?; in the arteries, veins, and lymphatics ; in the iris; and in the skin. The fibres of unstriped muscle form flattened bands, which interlace in various directions, and which when viewed without reagents appear nearly homogeneous, though, if the organ from which the fibres are taken has * Kolliker describes muscular fibres also in the tunica vaginalis testis. Fig. XXXI.—Anastomosing mus- cular fibres of the heart seen in a longitudinal section. On the right the limits of the separate cells with their nuclei are exhibited maticallv. somewhat diagram-