617 DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEETH. Development of Teeth. (After Goodsir's description.) 336. OJiercuJi about the ninth week (the central preceding the lateral): lastly, the second molar papilla is seen at the tenth week, behind the anterior molar. The teeth of the lower jaw appear rather later, the first molar papilla being only just visible at the seventh week; and the second molar papilla not being developed before the eleventh week. This completes the first or papillary stage of their development. According to Goodsir's description the dental groove now becomes contracted, its margins thickened and prominent, and the groove is converted into follicles for the reception of the papillae, by the growth of membranous septa, which pass across the groove between its borders (fig. 336). The follicles by this means become the alveoli, lined by periosteum, from the bottom of which the process of the mucous membrane of the gum rises, which is the germ of the future tooth. The follicle for the first molar is complete about the tenth week; the canine follows next, succeeded by the follicles for the incisors, which are completed about the eleventh or twelfth week; and, lastly, the follicle of the posterior molar is completed about the fourteenth week. These changes con- stitute the second or follicular stage. About the thirteenth week, the papillae begin to grow rapidly, project from the follicles, and assume a form corresponding with that of the future teeth : the follicles soon become deeper, and from their margins small membranous processes, or opercula, are developed, which, meeting, unite and form a lid to the now closed cavity (fig. 337). These processes correspond in shape to the form of the crown of the tooth, and in number to the tubercles on its surface. The follicles of the incisor teeth have two opercula, the canine three, and the. molars four or five each. The follicles are thus con- verted into dental sacs, and the contained papillae become pulps. The lips of the dental groove gradually advance over the follicles from behind forwards, and, uniting, gradually ob- literate it. This completes the third or saccular stage, which takes place about the end of the fifteenth week. The deep portion of the primitive dental groove is now closed in ; but the more super- ficial portion, near the surface of the gum, <3 FIG. 339. Erufition of Milk-tooth 1 still remains open ; it is called, by Mr. Goodsir, ^ the secondary dental groove ; from it are developed the ten anterior permanent teeth. About the fourteenth week, certain lunated depressions are formed, one behind each of the sacs of the rudimentary milk teeth. They are ten in number in each jaw, and are formed successively from before backwards; they are the rudimentary follicles of the four permanent incisors, the two canine, and the four bicuspids. As the secondary dental groove closes in, the follicles become closed cavities of reserve (fig. 337). The cavities soon elongate and recede from the surface into the substance of the gum, behind the sacs of the deciduous teeth, and a papilla projects from the bottom of each, which is the germ of the permanent tooth; at the same time, one or more opercula are <Pe>-ju<ii>ent tooth