CRANIAL NERVES. municates in front with the termination of the naso-palatine nerve. "While in the posterior palatine canal, it gives off inferior nasal branches, which enter the nose through openings in the palate bone, and ramify over the middle meatus, and the middle and inferior spongy bones ; and at its exit from the canal, a palatine branch is distributed to both surfaces of the soft palate. The middle, or external palatine nerve, descends in the same canal as the pre- ceding, to the posterior palatine foramen, distributing branches to the uvula, tonsil, and soft palate. It is occasionally wanting. , The posterior, or small palatine nerve, descends with a small artery through the small posterior palatine canal, emerging by a separate opening behind the posterior palatine foramen. It supplies the Levator palati and Azygos uvulse. muscles, the soft palate, tonsil, and uvula. The middle and posterior palatine join with the tonsillar branches of the glosso-pharyngeal to form the plexus around the tonsil (circulus tonsillaris). The internal branches are distributed to the septum, and outer wall of the nasal fossse. They are the superior nasal (anterior), and the naso-palatine. The superior nasal branches (anterior), four or five in number, enter the back part of the nasal fossa by the spheno-palatine foramen. They supply the mucous membrane covering the superior and middle spongy bones, and that lining the pos- terior ethmoidal cells, a few being prolonged to the upper and back part of the septum. One of these branches (the posterior) is continued on to the wall of the antrum, and there forms a communication with the anterior dental nerve. At the point of communication a swelling exists, denominated * the ganglion of Bochdalek,' the nature of which seems however uncertain. The naso-palatine nerve (Cotunnius) enters the nasal fossa with the other nasal nerves, and passes inwards across the roof of the nose, below the orifice of the sphenoidal sinus, to reach the septum ; it then runs obliquely downwards and for- wards along the lower part of the septum, to the anterior palatine foramen, lying between the periosteum and mucous membrane. It descends to the roof of the mouth by a distinct canal, which opens below in the anterior palatine fossa ; the right nerve, also in a separate canal, being posterior to the left one. In the mouth, they become united, supply the mucous membrane behind the incisor teeth, and join with the anterior palatine nerve. The naso-palatine nerve occasionally furnishes a few small filaments to the mucous membrane of the septum. The posterior branches are the Vidian and pharyngeal (pterygopalatine). The Vidian nerve, if traced from Meckel's ganglion, may be said to arise from the back part of the spheno-palatine ganglion, and then passes through the Vidian canal, enters the cartilage filling in the foramen lacerum basis cranii, and divides into two branches, the large petrosal and the carotid. In its course along the Vidian canal, it distributes a few filaments to the lining membrane at the back part of the roof of the nose and septum, and that covering the end of the Eustachian tube. These are upper posterior nasal branches. The large petrosal branch (nervus petrosus superjicialis major) enters the cranium through the foramen lacerum basis cranii, having pierced the cartilaginous substance which fills in this aperture. It runs beneath the Casserian ganglion and dura mater contained in a groove in the anterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, enters the hiatus Fallopii, where it receives a communicating branch from Jacobson's nerve, and, being continued through it into the aquaeductus Fallopii, joins the gangliform enlargement on the facial nerve. Properly speaking, this nerve passes from the facial to the spheno-palatine ganglion, forming its motor root. The carotid branch is shorter, but larger than the petrosal, of a reddish-grey colour and soft in texture. It crosses the foramen lacerum surrounded by the car- tilaginous substance which fills in that aperture, and enters the carotid canal on the outer side of the carotid artery, to join the carotid plexus. This description of the Vidian nerve as a branch from the ganglion, is the inore convenient anatomically, inasmuch as the nerve is generally dissected from the ganglion, as a single trunk dividing into two blanches. But it is more correct,