BONE. lv The veins emerge from the long bones in three places (Kolliker). I. By a large vein which accompanies the nutrient artery ; 2. By numerous large and small veins at the articular extremities; 3. By many small veins which arise in the compact substance. In the flat cranial bones the veins are large, very numerous, and run in tortuous canals in the diploic tissue, the sides of the canals being formed of a thin lamella of bone, perforated here and there for the passage of branches from the adjacent cancelli. The veins thus enclosed and supported by the osseous structure have exceedingly thin coats ; and when the bony structure is divided, they remain patulous, and do not contract in the canals in which Fig\ XVIII.—From a transverse section of the diaphy sis of the humerus, magnified 350 times. a, Haversian cauals. b, lacunae, with their canaliculi in the lamella? of these canals, c, lacunas of the interstitial lamellae, d, others at the surface of the Haversian systems, with canaliculi going off from one side. Fig. XIX.—Section parallel to the surface from the shaft of the femur, magnified 100 times, a, Haversian canals, b, lacunae seen from the side, c, others seen from the surface in lamellae which are cut horizontally. they are contained. Hence the constant occurrence of purulent absorption after amputation, in those cases where the stump becomes inflamed, and the cancellous tissue is infiltrated and bathed in pus. Lymphatic vessels have been traced, by Cruikshank, into the substance of bone, and Klein describes them as running in the Haversian canals. Nerves are distributed freely to the periosteum, and accompany the nutrient arteries into the interior of the bone. They are said, by Kolliker, to be most numerous in the articular extremities of the long bones, in the vertebra, and the larger flat bones. Minute Anatomy.—The intimate structure of bone, which in all essential particulars is identical in the compact and cancellous tissue, is most easily studied in a transverse section from the compact wall of one of the long bones after maceration, such as is shown in fig. XVIII. The