482 NERVOUS SYSTEM. is seen. Another fissure, the calloso-marginal fissure, is seen in front, commencing near the anterior extremity of the corpus callosum, and bounding the gyrus forni- catus above. This runs upwards and backwards to fall into the extremity of the fissure of Rolando. Between it and the parieto-occipital fissure is a somewhat square shaped assemblage of convolutions—the lobulus quadratus or prcecuneus. The space between the gyrus fornicatus and the convolution of the longitudinal fissure on this aspect of the brain is occupied by various secondary convolutions, which need not be particularly described. Besides the great primary convolutions above named and described, and which can be recognised in almost any well-developed brain, there are a great number of these secondary convolutions which pass from one to another of the primary, and often render the arrangement of the latter somewhat obscure ; of these, the annec- tcmt convolutions of the occipital lobe, above mentioned, may be taken as examples. Cerebrum. Under Surface or Base. (Eig. 267.) The under surface of each hemisphere presents a subdivision, as already mentioned, into three lobes, named from their position, anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior or frontal lobe, of a triangular form, with its apex backwards, is somewhat concave, and rests upon the convex surface of the roof of the orbit, being separated from the middle lobe by the fissure of Sylvius. The middle lobe, which is more prominent, is received into the middle fossa of the base of the skull, and comprises the parietal and temporo-sphenoidal lobes. The posterior or occipi- tal lobe rests upon the tentorium, its extent forwards being limited by the anterior margin of the cerebellum. The various objects exposed to view on the under surface of the cerebrum, in and near the middle line, are here arranged in the order in which they are met with from before backwards. Longitudinal fissure. Tuber cinereum. Corpus callosum and its peduncles. Infundibulum. Lamina cinerea. Pituitary body. Olfactory nerve. Corpora albicantia. Fissure of Sylvius. Posterior perforated space. Anterior perforated space. Crura cerebri. Optic commissure. The longitudinal fissure partially separates the two hemispheres from one another : it divides the two anterior lobes in front; and on raising the cerebellum and pons, it will be seen completely separating the two posterior lobes, the inter- mediate portion of the fissure being filled up by the great transverse band of white matter, the corpus callosum. Of these two portions of the longitudinal fissure, that which separates the posterior lobes is the longer. In the fissure between the two anterior lobes the anterior cerebral arteries may be seen ascending to the corpus callosum; and at the back part of this portion of the fissure, the anterior curved portion of the corpus callosum descends to the base of the brain. The corpus callosum terminates at the base of the brain by a concave margin, which is connected with the tuber cinereum through the intervention of a thin layer of grey substance, the lamina cinerea. This may be exposed by gently raising and drawing back the optic commissure. A broad white band may be observed on each sHe, passing from the under surface of the corpus callosum backwards and outwards, to the commencement of the fissure of Sylvius; these bands are called the peduncles of the corpus callosum. Laterally, the corpus callosum extends into the anterior lobe. The lamina cinerea is a thin layer of grey substance, extending backwards above the optic commissure from the termination of the corpus callosum to the tuber cinereum; it is continuous on either side with the grey matter of the anterior perforated space, and forms the anterior part of the inferior boundary of