xciii THE ARTERIES. If a fine string* be tied forcibly upon an artery, either before or after death, and then taken off, the external coat will be found uninjured, but the internal coats are divided in the track of the ligature, and can easily be further dissected from the outer coat. The inner coat can be separated from the middle by a little maceration. The inner coat consists of—r. a layer of pavement-epithelium, the cells of which are polygonal, oval, or fusiform, and have very distinct nuclei. This epithelium, or endothelium, as it is now more commonly called, is brought into view most distinctly by staining with nitrate of silver. 2. The endothelium rests upon a layer of longitudinal elastic fibres, in which, under the microscope, small elongated apertures are seen, and which was therefore called by Henle the fenestrated membrane. This Fig. LIV.—An artery from the mesentery of a child, -062"', and b, vein 'o(fj'"', in diameter, treated with acetic acid and magnified 350 times, a, tunica adventitia, with elongated nuclei. (3, nuclei of the contractile fibre-cells of the tunica media, seen partly from the surface, partly apparent in transverse section, y, nuclei of the epithelial cells. S, elastic longitudinal fibrous coat. layer is marked with numerous reticulations; it is perfectly smooth when the artery is distended ; but when empty, presents longitudinal and trans- verse folds. The fenestrated membrane can often be separated into more than one layer. In arteries of less than a line in diameter, the internal coat consists of two layers, as above described; but in middle-sized arteries, several lamella?, composed of elastic fibres and connective tissue, are interposed between the epithelial and middle coats. In the largest arteries, the inner coat is usually much thickened, especially in the aorta ; and consists of a homogeneous substance, occasionally striated or fibrillated, traversed by longitudinal elastic networks which are very fine in the lamella) immediately beneath the epithelium, but increase in thickness from within outwards. The internal and middle coats are separated by either a dense elastic reticulated coat, or a true fenestrated membrane. The middle coat is distinguished from the inner by its colour, and by the transverse arrangement of its fibres, in contradistinction to the longi- tudinal direction of those of the inner coat. In the largest arteries, this