646 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. the vesiculae seminales, and vasa deferentia; more anteriorly, with the under surface of the prostate. In the female, it is adherent to the posterior wall of the vagina. The lower portion is about an inch or an inch and a half in length ; it curves backwards at the fore part of the prostate gland, and terminates at the anus. This portion of the intestine receives no peritoneal covering. It is invested by the In- ternal sphincter, supported by the Levatores am muscles, and surrounded at its ter- mination by the External sphincter. In the male, it is separated from the membra- nous portion and bulb of the urethra by a triangular space ; and in the female, a similar space intervenes between it and the vagina. This space forms by its base the perinaeum. Structure.—The large intestine has four coats : serous, muscular, cellular, and mucous. The serous coat is derived from the peritoneum, and invests the different portions of the large intestine to a variable extent. The caecum is covered only on its anterior surface and sides; more rarely, it is almost completely invested, being held in its position by a duplicature, the meso-caecum. The ascending and descending colon are usually covered only in front. The transverse colon is almost completely invested, the parts corresponding to the attachment of the great omentum and transverse meso-colon being alone excepted. The sigmoid flexure is nearly completely surrounded, the point corresponding to the attachment of the sigmoid meso-colon being excepted. The upper part of the rectum is almost completely invested by the peritoneum ; the middle portion is covered only on its anterior surface; and the lower portion is entirely devoid of any serous covering. In the course of the colon and! upper part of the rectum the peritoneal coat is thrown into a number of small pouches filled with fat, called appendices epiploicce. They are chiefly appended to the transverse colon. The muscular coat consists of an external longitudinal and an internal circular layer of muscular fibres. The longitudinal fibres are not found as a uniform layer over the whole surface of the large intestine. In the caecum and colon they are especially collected into three flat longitudinal bands, each being about half an inch in width. These bands com- mence at the attachment of the appendix vermiformis to the caecum : one, the pos- terior, is placed along the attached border of the intestine ; the anterior band, the largest, becomes inferior along the arch of the colon, where it corresponds to the attachment to the great omentum, but is in front in the ascending and descending colon and sigmoid flexure ; the third, or lateral band, is found on the inner side of the ascending and descending colon, and on the under border of the transverse colon. These bands are nearly one half shorter than the other parts of the intestine, and| serve to produce the sacculi which are characteristic of the caecum and colon; accordingly, when they are dissected off, the tube can be lengthened, and its sacculated j character becomes lost. In the sigmoid flexure, the longitudinal fibres become more scattered, but upon its lower part, and round the rectum, they spread out and form a thick uniform layer. The circular fibres form a thin layer over the caecum and colon, being especially accumulated in the intervals between the sacculi; in the rectum they form a thick j layer, especially at its lower end, where they become numerous, and form the Internal sphincter. The cellular coat connects the muscular and mucous layers closely together. The mucous membrane, in the caecum and colon, is pale, and of a greyish or pale yellow colour. It is quite smooth, destitute of villi, and raised into numerous cres- centic folds which correspond to the intervals between the sacculi. In the rectum it is thicker, of a darker colour, more vascular, and connected loosely to the muscular coat as in the oesophagus. When the lower part of the rectum is contracted, its mucous membrane is thrown into a number of folds, some of which, near the anus, are longitudinal in direction, and are effaced by the distension of the gut. Besides these, there are certain permanent folds, of a semilunar shape, described by Mr.