THE THORAX. 672 considerable part of its posterior surface. It also forms the apex of the heart by its projection beyond the right ventricle. Its walls are much thicker than those of the right ventricle, the proportion being as 2 to 1 (Bizot). They are also thickest in the broadest part of the ventricle, becoming gradually thinner towards the base, and also towards the apex, which is the thinnest part. Its cavity should he opened, by making an incision through its anterior wall along the left side of the ventricular septum, and carrying it round the apex and along its posterior surface to the auriculo-ventricular opening. The following parts present themselves for examination :— „ . f Auriculo-ventricular. Tr , f Mitral. Openings. < . ,. Valves. < 1 & I Aortic I Semilunar. Chordae tendineae. Columnae carneae. The auriculo-ventricular opening is placed to the left of the aortic orifice, beneath the right auriculo-ventricular opening, opposite the centre of the sternum. It is a little smaller than the corresponding aperture of the opposite side ; and, like it, is broader in the transverse than in the antero-posterior diameter. It is surrounded by a dense fibrous ring, covered by the lining membrane of the heart, and guarded by the mitral valve. The aortic opening is a small circular aperture, in front and to the right side of the auriculo-ventricular, from which it is separated by one of the segments of the mitral valve. Its orifice is guarded by the semilunar valves. Its position cor- responds to the sternum, on a line with the lower border of the third left costal cartilage. The mitral valve is attached to the circumference of the auriculo-ventricular orifice in the same way that the tricuspid valve is on the opposite side. It is formed by a duplicature of the lining membrane, strengthened by fibrous tissue, and contains a few muscular fibres. It is larger in size, thicker, and altogether stronger than the tricuspid, and consists of two segments of unequal size. The larger seg- ment is placed in front, between the auriculo-ventricular and aortic orifices, and is said to prevent the filling of the aorta during the distension of the ventricle. Two smaller segments are usually found at the angle of junction of the larger. The mitral valve-flaps are furnished with chordae tendineae, the mode of attachment of which is precisely similar to those on the right side; but they are thicker, stronger, and less numerous. The mitral valve lies in the third intercostal space, about an inch from the left border of the sternum. The semilunar valves surround the orifice of the aorta; two are anterior and one posterior ; they are similar in structure, and in their mode of attachment, to those of the pulmonary artery. They are, however, larger, thicker, and stronger than those of the right side ; the lunulas are more distinct, and the corpora Arantii larger and more prominent. Between each valve and the cylinder of the aorta is a deep depression, the sinus aortici (sinuses of Valsalva) ; they are larger than those at the root of the pulmonary artery. The aortic valves lie close behind the left border of the sternum, in the third intercostal space. The columnce cameaz admit of a subdivision into three sets, like those upon the right side; but they are smaller, more numerous, and present a dense interlacement, especially at the apex, and upon the posterior wall. Those attached by one extre- mity only, the musculi papillares, are two in number, being connected one to the anterior, the other to the posterior wall; they are of large size, and terminate by free rounded extremities, from which the chordae tendineae arise. The Endocardium is the serous membrane which lines the internal surface of the heart; it assists in forming the valves by its reduplications, and is continuous with the lining membrane of the great blood-vessels. It is a thin, smooth, trans- parent membrane, giving to the inner surface of the heart its glistening appear- ance. It is more opaque on the left than on the right side of the heart, thicker in the auricles than in the ventricles, and thickest in the left auricle. It is thin on