637 THE SMALL INTESTINES. The second, or descending portion, about three inches in length, is firmly fixed by the peritoneum and pancreas. It passes from the neck of the gall-bladder vertically downwards, in front of the right kidney, as far as the third lumbar vertebra. It is covered by peritoneum only on its anterior surface. It is in relation, in front, with the right arch of the colon and the meso-colon; behind, with the front of the right kidney; at its inner side is the head, of the pancreas, and the ductus communis choledochus. The common bile duct and the pancreatic duct perforate the inner side of this portion of the intestine obliquely, a little below its middle. The third, or transverse portion, the longest and narrowest part of the duodenum, passes across the front of the spine, ascending from the third to the second lumbar vertebra, and terminating in the jejunum on the left side of that bone. In front, though at some distance from it, is the descending layer of the transverse meso-colon, or the divergence of the two layers of that structure, and it is crossed by the superior mesenteric vessels ; behind, it rests upon the aorta, the vena cava, and the crura of the Diaphragm ; above it, is the lower border of the pancreas, the superior mesen- teric vessels passing forwards between the two. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries supplying the duodenum are the pyloric and pancreatico-duodenal branches of the hepatic, and the inferior pancreatico-duodenal branch of the superior mesenteric. The veins terminate in the gastro-duodenal and superior mesenteric. The nerves are derived from the solar plexus. The jejunum (jejunus, empty), so called from being usually found empty after death, includes the upper tw-o-fifths of the rest of the small intestine. It commences at the duodenum on the left side of the second lumbar vertebra, and terminates in the ileum ; its convolutions being chiefly confined to the umbilical and left iliac regions. The jejunum is wider, its coats thicker, more vascular, and of a deeper colour than those of the ileum ; but there is no characteristic mark to distinguish the termination of the one and the commencement of the other. The ileum (eikelv, to twist), so called from its numerous coils or convolutions, includes the remaining three-fifths of the small intestine. It occupies chiefly the umbilical, hypogastric, right iliac, and occasionally the pelvic regions, and terminates in the right iliac fossa by opening into the inner side of the commencement of the large intestine. The ileum is narrower, its coats thinner and less vascular than those of the jejunum ; a given length of it weighing less than the same length of the jejunum. Structure. The wall of the small intestine is composed of four coats : serous, muscular, cellular, and mucous. The serous coat is derived from the peritoneum. The first, or ascending portion of the duodenum, is almost completely surrounded by that membrane ; the second, or descending portion, is covered by it only in front; and the third, or transverse, portion lies behind the descending layer of the transverse meso-colon, by which it is covered in front. The remaining portion of the small intestine is surrounded by the peritoneum, excepting along its attached or mesenteric border; here a space is left for the vessels and nerves to pass to the gut. The muscular coat consists of two layers of fibres, an external or longitudinal, and an internal or circular layer. The longitudinal fibres are thinly scattered over the surface of the intestine, and are more distinct along its free border. The circular fibres form a thick, uniform layer ; they surround the cylinder of the intestine in the greater part of its circumference, but do not form complete rings. The muscular coat is thicker at the upper than at the lower part of the small intestine. The cellular, or submucous coat, connects together the mucous and muscular layers. It consists of a loose, filamentous, areolar tissue, which forms a nidus for the subdi- vision of the nutrient vessels, previous to their distribution to the mucous surface. The mucous membrane is thick and highly vascular at the upper part of the small intestine, but somewhat paler and thinner below. It presents for examination the following constituents :—