Iviii GENERAL ANATOMY". the same general arrangement of the Haversian canals, lamella?, lacunae, and canaliculi is seen, though not so plainly as in the macerated specimen. If the individual lamellse are examined, they are found to be composed of fibres, most of which are nearly parallel; but which interlace together, and anastomose or communicate with the fibres of the neighbouring lamellse. The organic or animal constituent of a bone is only incompletely removed by maceration, leaving the bone for an indefinite period perfectly tough and coherent; but after being long kept in a warm dry atmosphere, or by incineration in a furnace, the animal part may be entirely removed, and then the earthy constituent will retain the form of the original bone, but on the slightest force it will crumble down. The animal base is often called cartilage, but differs from it in the following respects : viz., that it is softer and more flexible, and when boiled with a high pressure is almost entirely resolved into gelatine. Cartilage does, however, form the animal basis of bone in certain parts of the skeleton. Thus, according to Tomes and De Morgan, it occurs in the petrous part of the temporal bone, and, according to Dr. Sharpey, on the articular ends of adult bones, lying underneath the natural cartilage of the joint. Chemical Analysis.—The organic constituent of bone forms about one- third, or 33*3 per cent. ; the inorganic matter, two-thirds, or 66"j per cent.; as is seen in the subjoined analysis by Berzelius :— Organic Matter, Gelatine and Blood-vessels .... 33*30 /Phosphate of Lime ...... 51*04 Inorganic, \ Carbonate of Lime . . . . . U"3o or J Fluoride of Calcium...... 2-00 Earthy Matter, Phosphate of Magnesia I *l6 VSoda and Chloride of Sodium . . . .1-20 ioo-oo Some chemists add to this about 1 per cent, of fat. The relative proportions of the two constituents of bone are found to differ in different bones of the skeleton, as shown by Dr. Owen Rees. Thus, the bones of the head, and the long bones of the extremities, contain more earthy matter than those of the trunk; and those of the upper extremity somewhat more than the corresponding bones of the lower extremity. The humerus contains more earthy matter than the bones of the fore-arm; and the femur more than the tibia and fibula. The vertebra?, ribs, and clavicle, contain nearly the same proportion of earthy matter. The metacarpal and metatarsal bones contain about the same proportion as those of the trunk. Much difference exists in the analyses given by chemists as to the proportion between the two constituents of bone at different periods of life. According to Schreger, and others, there is a considerable increase in the earthy constituents of the bones with advancing years. Dr. Eees states, that this is especially marked in the long bones, and the bones of the head, which, in the foetus, do not contain the excess of earthy matter found in those of the adult. But the bones of the trunk in the foetus, according to this analyst, contain as much earthy matter as those of the adult. On the other hand, the analyses of Stark and Yon Bibra show, that the proportions of animal and earthy matter are almost precisely the same at different periods of life. According to the analyses of Von Bibra,