A'em and Valuable Medical Books a Society of Physicians. Handsomely printed in 8vo. 12s. in boards. This work possesses two recommendations, which must render it par- ticularly valuable to practitioners, resident in the country, or abroad: ip the first place, it affords the only complete view, that is to be obtained, of all the publications, which annually issue from the press, relative to professional subjects; and, idly, it comprises a selection and detail of all the new or interesting matter, contained in those publications, which will render the purchase of the majority of the books themselves to sur- geons in the country, navy, army, &c. unnecessary. 4. The SURGEON'S VADE MECUM ; contain- ing the Symptoms, Causes, Diagnosis, Prognosis, and Treatment of Surgical Diseases: Accompanied by the .modern and approved Methods of Operating; a Select Formula of Prescriptions, and a Glossary of Terms. By .Robert Hooper, M.D. In a neat and closely printed Pocket Volume, small 8vo. 6s. “ Much practical information is condensed into a small compass, in this Vade-Mecum of Surgery, which is the cheapest and most useful abridgment which has yet appeared ”—Anti-Jacobin Rc-virw. 5. ANATOMICAL PLATES to ILLUSTRATE the STRUCTURE of the HUMAN BODY: intended to accompany every Work on Practical Anatomy. Se- lected from the approved Works of Cheselden, Alvinus, Haller, Prosarka, Fisher, Mickelo, Scarpa, Monro, Bell, An ton ius, Calderic, Loder, or from original Drawings from the Subject, or from Preparations. By Robert Hooper, Bachelor of Medicine of the Univer- sity of Oxford, Physician to the St. Mary-le-bone In- firmary, &c. Royal 8vo. Fasciculus 1. In ttie Press. 6. EXAMINATIONS in ANATOMY, PHYSIO- LOGY, PRACTICE of PHYSIC, SURGERY, MA- TERIA MEDICA. CHEMISTRY, and PHARMA- CY ; for the Use of Students who are about to pass the College of Surgeons, Medical or Transport Boards. By R B! rt Hooper, M. D. Lecturer on Medicine, &c. in London. Neatly printed in small 8vo. , 7. The LONDON PRACTICE of MIDWIFERY; chiefly designed for the Use of Students and early Prac- titioners. Including the Management of Women during Pregnancy, and alter Delivery; with the Treatment necessary in the principal Diseases of Children. Second Edition, attentively revised, corrected, and enlarged. In a neat Pocket Volume. 6s.