Pullished hy John Murray, 1 led Street. 8. The MODERN PRACTICE of PHYSIC : Ex- hibiting the Characters, Causes, Symptoms, Prognostic, morbid Appearances, and improved Method of treating Diseases. By Robert Thomas, M. D. Third Edi- tion, eonsiderably enlarged, in one neat and very closely printed Volume. 8vo. 14s. This work has been carefully revised; and a large portion of new and important matter has been added. “ This is a judicious compilation of facts, from the best writers, which may be perused with great advantage, as the different subjects arc treated with brevity and perspicuity. Dr. Thomas has abridged with judgment, has added modern opinions and discoveries, has frequently introduced the result of his own experience, and his performance thus becomes an useful compendium of the present State of Medical Practice.”—Monthly Review. 9. PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS on the NA- TURAL HISTORY and CURE of the VENEREAL DISEASE. By John Howard, Member of the Col- lege of Surgeons, London. A veuu Edition, consider- ably improved, with Plates. 2 vols. 8vo. 18s. 10. The LONDON DISSECTOR ; or, System of Dissection practised in the Hospitals and Lecture Rooms of the Metropolis : explained by the clearest Rules, for the Use of the Students. Comprising a Description of the Muscles, Vessels, Nerves, and Vis- cera of the Human Body, as they appear on Dissection, with Directions for their Demonstration. A Third Edition. i2mo. 5s. 11 This will be found a very useful guide to the Student in the prosecu- tion of his anatomical researches. It is superior to other works of a simi- lar kind and extent, in describing not the muscles merely, but the various parts, blood-vessels, nerves, itc. as they come into view under the kniftr of the Dissector. A knowledge of'the relative situation of parts j, thus acquired; a point of the first magnitude to the practical surgeon. As the chief intention of the work is to teach the art of dissecting, the muscles are demonstrated in their order of situation, which is the only method that can be pursued in actual dissection.”—Medical and Chit ugical Review. 11. NOSOLOGY; or, a Systematic Arrangement of Diseases, by Classes, Orders, Genera, and Species, with the distinguishing Characters of each, and Out- lines of the Systems of Sauvages, Lin metis, Vogel, Sagar, and Macbride. Translated from the Latin of William Cullen, M.D. A new Edition, corrected. 8vo. 7s.