KITCHEN OF 626 On the right hand side of the table is a roasting fire-place, principally used for game and poultry, on a plan entirely new, the size is seven feet wide and five feet six inches high, the bars are perpendicular and vertical, opening at one end, and supported upon castors, which allows the cleaning of it with much more ease, and affords access for the repairing of the boiler without pulling down any of the works around it; at the back of the stove in front of the boiler are thick Welsh lumps, by which hot water can be obtained twenty-four hours after the fire is put out. The great advantage of this range is, that from the smallest bird to the largest joint, even a baron of beef can be cooked to per- fection, although there is only four inches and a half depth of coals. As the consumption of this article is much less in a grate built on this principle, I expect that the old style of grates will disappear. Another advantage is, that broUing can be done in a very superior style, by means of a double gridiron suspended from an extending bracket hooked over the top bar; for which see my Kitchen of the Bachelor. On the left, in the thickness of the wall, is a small cistern to supply the boiler with water as it is drawn out hot on the right hand side. A screen closet is placed before this fire, drawn on castors, seven feet long, six feet high, and two feet wide, having two grated shelves for dishes, and open to the fire, with sUding doors and flaps, the same as the one described in the roasting kitchen. Turning your back to the fire-place, on the right is a recess, ten feet high, ten wide, and two and a half deep, forming an elliptic arch, in which is fixed a dresser used for silver dishes, &c., previous to a large dinner; underneath are four drawers for small kitchen utensils, and above the dresser three shelves for tinned iron saucepans ; in the front of the shelves are suspended covers of various sizes and large preserve-pans. On the right, in another recess, six feet four inches high, four feet three inches wide, and two feet and a half deep, there is also a di'esser, above it large dish covers. In the recess of the same size on the left is fixed a low cast-iron charcoal stove for boiling large fish, which is only used when large fish are required to be stewed or boiled; when not in use for that purpose it is covered with a thick board elevated one foot above, being supported u.pon four strong feet in wood, thus forming a dresser upon which to deposit any article previous to its being di-essed at the broiling or fish stoves; on each side are tin drainers for kitchen spoons, &c., higher up are two rows of hooks for large dish covers ; the whole appearance of that side is pleasing to the eye, by the number of various articles to be seen, its regularity, and the brilliant cleanli- ness of everything. Facuig the fire-place is a large cast iron stove, heated with coals, twelve feet five inches long, and two feet ten inches wide, divided into five parts, two of them are used for broiling steaks, cotelettes, &c., and the others to boil and fry fish. On a compass brass rod, and moveable, is fixed a fire-screen obhquely at the end, to prevent the heat injuring the eyes, and at the same time acting as a reflector in the interior of saucepans on the stove if required. At the extremity of the stove is a bain mai-ie, two feet eight inches square, and seven inches deep, principally for keepmg fish-sauces hot. Next is a cast iron steam closet, four feet seven inches wide, two feet two inches deep, di^^dedinto three parts, the two shelves are of iron, two inches and a half thick, therein are deposited all the fish dressed and waiting to be taken up. , .. , Near it is another closet, five feet and a half long and two wide, wai-med