6G4 KITCHEN AT HOME. stock It was cooked in (keeping tlie beef hot in the remainder) through a hau- sieve into a basin, in another stewpan have ready a quarter of a pound of butter, melt it over the fire, add six ounces of lloir, mix well together, stirring oyer the fire until becoming a little brownish, take off, and when cold add two quarts of the stock, stir it over the fire until it boils, then have tour carrots, four turnips (cut into smaU pieces with cutters), and forty bntton onions peeled, put them into the sauce, when again boUing draw it to the corner, where let simmer until tender, keeping it skimmed, add a little powdered sugar and a bunch of parsley ; if it should become too thick add a little more of the stock, dress the beef upon a dish, sauce round and serve. No. 97. Stewed Rump OF Beef WITH Onions. (Seepage 172 in the other department. _ The remains of stewed beef, cut in slices and warmed in some of the stock, IS good the next day served with a little sharp sauce (page 15). The remain- ing stock IS good for any kind of soup or stock the next day. No. 98. Stewed Rump Steak with Oyster Sauce. Cut from a small stale rump of beef two steaks, about three quarters of an inch in thickness, season well with pepper and salt; well butter a deep saute-pan, lay in your steaks, with four cloves, a blade of mace, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, cover with a quarter of a pint of water, set over a slow fire, when they have simmered half an hour, turn them over, and let remain until quite tender; take up, place upon your dish, and keep them hot, place the saute-pau at the comer of the fire, boil, skim well, add an ounce of butter, with which you have mixed half a tablespoonful of flour, stir well, and when it thickens, add two dozen oysters, previously blanched and bearded, half a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, and a little cayenne pepper, sauce over the steaks and serve. The steak with common stewed oysters would be very good. No. 99. Ribs of Beef a l'Hoteliere. Procure four ribs of beef, but not too fat or too thick, take off the chine-bone neatly, and the tips of the rib-bones, skewer the flap under, so as to form a good square piece ; put a quarter of a pound of butter at the bottom of a large braising-pan, let melt, then lay in your beef (which must be previously larded through the best part with ten long pieces of fat bacon), season with a teaspoonful of salt, and half ditto of pepper, cover the braising-pan, and put it upon a slow fire for twenty minutes, keeping it stirred round until becoming a nice gold colour, then add a pint of water; when about half done throw in eighty button onions and about sixty small pieces of carrot, cut the shape and size of young ones ; half an hour after add the same number of pieces of turnips, and a bunch of parsley, to which you have added three bay-leaves and four sprigs of thyme, keep stewing gently until tlie vegetables ai-e done and the beef is quite tender, which take out, trim, and lay it upon your dish, skim ofi" as much fat as possible from the vegetables, add an ounce of butter with which you have mixed a tablespoonful of flour, with a teaspoonful of sugai-, boil altogether, dress round and serve. No. 100. Beef a la Mode. The real beef i\ la mode is made as follows, and not as a kind of soup daQy sold in cookshops. Procure either a small piece of rump, sirloin, or ribs of beef, about twelve pounds in weight, take away all the bone, and lard it through with ten loug