23 SIowlv aiid<.adly, at lengthened intervals, the spoon, with its abominable freight, continued to mL sLt voyages from the platters to our lips. How long we made fools of ourselves t iHSnece sary to calculate. Suddenly, by a simultaneous impulse, the two windows of the room favoured the headlong exit of two wretches whose accumulated grievances v.ere heavier than they could endure. Hours rolled away, while the beautiful face of Winander- mere looked as ugly as Styx, as we writhed along its banl<s, more miserably moaning tnan Se hopeless beggar who sighed for the propitiatory obolus to Charon. And from th^it irrevocable hour we have abandoned onions to the heroines of tragedy. Fools, in spite ot all warning, are taught by such a process as that to which we submitted. Wise men. take ° "Nature, says I to myself'—Soyer is speaking—"compels us to dine more or less once a dav " The average which oscillates between the " more" and the "less," it requires considerable dexterity to catch. Having read six hundred pages and fourteen hundred receipts Ihe question is, where are we to begin ? Our helplessness is confessed. Js it Dossible the Regenerator is, after all, more tantalizing than the Barmecide ? No—here is the very aid we desiderate. Our readers shall judge of a " Dinner Party at Home. (See p. 636.) j , r ■ We shall be exceedingly curious to hear how many hundred parties of eight persons, upon reading this bill of fare in our pages, will, without loss of time, congregate in order to do it substantial honour. Such a clattering of brass and brandishing of steel may strike a new government as symptomatical or preparatory of a popular rising. We may therefore reassure them with the information, that those who sit down with M. Soyer, will have little thought of rising for a long time afterwards. We have introduced ' The Gastronomic Regenerator' to public notice in that strain which its external appearance, its title, its scheme, and its contents, demand and justify. But we must not, even good-humouredly, mislead those for whose use its publication is principally intended. To all intents and purposes M. Soyer's work is strictly and most intelligibly practical. It is as full of matter as an egg is full of meat; and the household which would travel through its multitudinous lessons must be as full of meat as the Regenerator is full of matter. The humblest, as well as the wealthiest kitchen economy, is considered and in- structed ; nor will the three hundred receipts at the conclusion of the volume, which are more peculiarly applicable to the " Kitchen at Home," be, probably, the portion of the book least agreeable and valuable to the general community. For example, just before shaking hands with him, let us listen to M. Soyer, beginning admirably to discourse of the " Choosing and Roasting of plain Joints." (See p. 637.) How full of milky kindness is his language, still breathing the spirit of that predominant idea—the tranquillization of the universe by "copious dinners!" He has given up " basting" with success. Men may as well give up basting one another. Nobody will envy the Regenerator the bloodless fillets worthily encircling his forehead, should the aspira- tions of his benevolent soul in his lifetime assume any tangible shape. But if a more distant futurity is destined to witness the lofty triumph, he may yet depart in the confidence of its occurrence. The most precious fruits ripen the most slowly. The sun itself does not burst at once into meridian splendour. Gradually breaks the morning ; and the mellow light glides noiselessly along, tinging mountain, forest, and the city spire, till a stealthy possession seems to be taken of the whole upper surface of creation, and the mighty monarch at last uprises on a world prepared to expect, to hail, and to reverence his perfect and unclouded majesty. THB laOB.XrXIl'G POST. Cream of Egypt I'Ibrahim Pacha. The novelty of the bill of fare which appeared in our columns of Saturday last relating to the banquet given to his Highness Ibrahim Pacha bv the memViRrs of ihp. Rp.fnrm Clnli tho Hnv ni-fivinni hjivintr cin>'o Uaa„ ♦„,,;„ „r ._ i ,fj,,,,„ u.oiioi) ocivcu uii luai, ui.<-aoiuii. i uK lusi,, eniiueQ " Cream 01 Jigypl a 1 Ibrahim Pacha," and composed expressly for the occasion by M. Soyer, the chef de cuisine of the club, was the admiration of the whole company, and especially so of the Pacha, who as soon as it was placed before him, quickly perceived the honour intended to be conferred upon him. This dish consisted of a pyramid about two feet and a half high made of liRlit meringue cake, in imitation of solid stones, surrounded with immense grapes and other fruits, but representing only the four angles of the pyramid through sheets of waved sugar to show, to the greatest advantage, an elegant cream a Caiianas, on the top of which was resting a highly-finished portrait of the illustrious stranger's father, Mehemet Ali carefnllv drawn on a round-shaped satin carton, the exact size of tlie top of tho cream. The nortrait was immediately observed by his Highness, who carefully took it up, and, after showing It