KITCHEN AT HOME. 659 No 68 Eed Mullets. Procure two red muUets, whicli place upon a strong dish not too large, sprinkle some chopped onions, parsley, a little pepper and salt, and a Httle salad-oil over, and put them mto a warm oveu for half an hour, then put a tablespoonfid of chopped onions m a stew- pan, with a teaspoonful of salad-oil, stir over a moderate fire until getting rather yeUowish, then add a tablespoonful of sherry, half a pint of melted butter, with a little chopped mushrooms and parsley ; reduce quickly over a sharp fire, keeping it stirred until becoming rather thick; when the mullets are done sauce over and serve. No. 69. Mackarel are generally served plain boiled; put them in a kettle containing boiling water, well salted, let simmer nearly half an hour, take them up, drain, and dish them upon a napkin, serve melted butter in a boat, with which you have mixed a tablespoonful of chopped fennel, boiling it a few minutes. No. 70. Mackarel a la Maitre d'H6tel. (See p. 127); as also for mackarel au beurre noir. No. 71. Gurnets are best stuffed and baked; stuff them as directed for haddocks, turn them round in the same manner, lay slices of butter over, cut very thin and bake half an hour or more (according to.their size) in a warni oven, when done di-ess upon a dish without a napkin, and have ready the fol- lowing sauce : put a tablespoonful of chopped onions in a stewpan, with one of vinegar, place over the fire a couple of minutes, add half a pint of melted butter, a tablespoonful of Harvey sauce, one of catsup, and two of water, reduce until rather thick, season with a little pepper, cut the fillets of a good anchovy into strips, put in the sauce, which pour round the fish and serve. No. 72. Boiled Gurnet. You may boil it either with or without the stuffing in very salt water, it wiU require rather more than half an hour; serve with anchovy sauce separate. No. 73. Herrings boiled with Cream Sauce. Boil six herrings about twenty minutes in plenty of salt and water, but only just to simmer; then have ready the following sauce : put half a gill of cream upon the fire in a stewpan, when it boils add eight spoonfuls of melted butter, an ounce of fresh butter, a little pepper, salt, and the juice of half a lemon ; dress the fish upon a dish without a napkin, sauce over and serve. For broiled herrings a la Digon, see page 132. No. 74. Skate is usually crimped, cut into long slices, and curled round; procure two or three slices, tie them with string to keep the shape in boiling, put them into a kettle of boiling water, in wliich you have put a good hand- ful of salt; boil gently about twenty minutes (have ready also a piece of the liver, which boil with it), when done drain well and put it upon a dish with- out a napkin; put three parts of a pint of melted butter in a stewpan, place it upon the fire, and when quite hot add a wineglassful of capers, sauce over and serve. For skate au beurre noir, see page 133. Skate may also be served upon a napkin with a boat of well seasoned melted l)utter, to which you have added a spoonful of Harvey sauce.