KITCHEN AT HOME. 703 tlipinipp of two lemons, and an ounce and ahali ot ismgiass, previoubi)' u SlviT IcI tWliole in a bowl, which set upon ice, keep stirring until unon the point of setting, when add three parts of a pint of whipped cream, ;rint ?rr mWd, wLh place upon ice, and turn out when ready to serve. Should your apricots be very ripe there would be no necessity to boil them, burm^ly rub them thi-ough a sieve, mix the lemon-juice, sugar, and ism- C:;:m^ o^l^achetTof any of the before-mentioned fruits are made in the same manner but until you have confidence m yourself, it Wd be better to taste for the sweetness, and try the stiffness by placmg a httle upon ice previously to finishing it. No 247 French Custard Cream. Have ready ten custard glasses, or small coffee cups, measure one of them ten times full of milk, which place m a stewTJan and set upon the fire until boihng, when add a quar er of a pound ot powdered sugar, and the rind of two lemons, free from pith, place the hd upon the stewpan, take from the fire and let infuse ten minutes, then in a basin have ready the yolks of eight eggs, with which stir in the milk by degrees, pass through a tammie and fill the cups; have ready upon the fire a large flat stewpan, containing water sufficient to cover the bottom two inches m depth, and just simmermg, stand in the cups, and let remam still simmering until the custards are quite fii-m, when take them out, let remain until cold, when wash the cups outside, dress them upon a napkin and serve ; any kind of flavour may be introduced into the above, but for No. 248. Coffee Custard Cream proceed as follows: make half a pint of strong coffee according to the usual method, add half a pint of thin cream or mdk previously boiled, sweeten to palate, mix with the yolks of eggs, pass through a tammie, and proceed precisely as directed in the last. No. 249. Coffee Custard Cream, White. Put a quarter of a pound of green Mocha coffee into a smaU stewpan, which place over a slow fire, toss- ing the coffee over frequently until becoming lightly browned, but not black, in another stewpan have boUing a pint of milk, take from the fire, let infuse ten minutes, placing the lid upon the stewpan, then mix with eight yolks of eggs, pass through a tammie, and finish as before. No. 250. Chocolate Custard Cream. Scrape half a cake of good chocolate, which put into a stewpan, and moisten by degrees with a pint of warm milk and cream, when well dissolved mix with the yolks of eggs, and finish as before. Any of the above custards may be put into common tart dishes, and set in a potato steamer, or slowly baked in the oven, should the above process be too tedious or inconvenient. Any description of Enghsh boiled custard may be made in the same man- ner, but instead of pouring it first into the cups, when the infusion is made, mix it with the yoDcs of eggs, and stir over the fire until thickening (but must not boU, or it would curdle), pass through a tammie, fill your cups or glasses, grate a little nutmeg over each, and serve when quite cold.