REMARKS. XXIX Creams should be very light and delicate, but fruit creams must be kept of the colour of tlje fruits they are made of. For aU the demi-glace removes the ice must be firm, but not the least hard. AU kinds of souffle or fondu must be well done through, or they would be very indigestible, clog the delicate palate, and prevent the degustation of the generous claret which flows so freely after dinner on the table of the real epicure. I recommend sugar in almost all savoury dishes, as it greatly facili- tates digestion and invigorates the palate, but always increase or dimi- nish the quantity according to the taste of your employer. I often introduce onions, eschalots, or even a little garlic in some of my most dehcate dishes, but so well blended with other flavours that I never have a single objection even by those who have a great dislike to it. Horseradish and herbs of every description may always be used with discretion to great advantage. Contrary to the expressed opinion of every other previous publication, I say that too much seasoning is preferable to too little, as your employer can correct you by saying there is too much of this or that, and you can soon get it to his taste; but while you fear over-seasoning you produce no flavour at all; by allowing each guest to season for himself, your sauce attains a diversity of flavours. The cook must season for the guest, not the guest for.the cook. I have always found great advantage in dressing the greatest part of my entrees on a thin roll of mashed potatoes;* this has never been found objectionable, as it is so thin that it is imperceptible when covered with the sauces, and serves to prevent any entrees dressed in crown from being upset, before going on table, by the carelessness of the servant; for large removes, as turkey a la Nelson (No. 510), &c.,. after forming the ship (see engraving), egg, bread-crumb, and set in a moderate oven to brown, fix in your croustade, and dish up ; the potatoes may be eaten, but not the croustade, which is merely an embel- lishment. Borders may also be made of forcemeat, as for ris de veau (No. 673), but gives much more trouble without being better ; also of rice, by preparing it as for casserole au riz (p. 260) ; it maybe used as mashed potatoes. Make but few preserves, only those that are indis- pensable ; you will have a continual enjoyment of earlier stock, as Mature closely watches our wants and UberaUy supplies our wishes Ihe real gourmet, though anxious to produce novelty, never attempts to over-force the produce of the various seasons. * Tlie mashed potatoes which are to be used for dishing up as described ot'Sf T'^' f! simply prepared as foUows :-Plain%oiS or steam s£ or eiglit large mealy potatoes; when weU done, peel and put them into a stew Fhr^ S^'T'^''' ^.little salt; then W the prong of X-k wh^k them till quite m puree; then add two tablespoonfuls of milk,^work up a loH? Toinr. V^'' l^y^ quantity on\ clean cloth roll it to thccurcumfcrence of a fom-penuy or sixpennvoiece and fm-m n round with It in your dish accorcUng to the^size^of the entrS,S tTepiZr tion accordmg to the size of the flanc or remove. ^