6S0 KITCHEN AT HOME. 1 • ] 1 °i-'vu veiy uoi. A lew raw mushrooms stewed w Hi ihc kidneys is also a great improvement. httwea witu the A bullock's heart is a favourite dish with some persons: soak an hour n kkewarm water to disgorge, dry, and stuff the interior ^ith a good vea hnf^H r./^ """^ f ^"^^ ^ «^°d^^-te fire, and seiTe very hot with a httle veal sauce (see page 647) around; proc ed the same fS calves or sheep's hearts, but of course they wiU require less time. No. 160 Calf's Head. Should you have any left from a previous dinner It may be dressed in various ways. To hash calf's head cut into good slices not too thm, or it would have a bad appearance, put a spoonful of chopped onions m a stewpan with a wineglassful of vinegar, six peppercorns, a sprie of thyme, a bay-leaf, a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, and a ffill of broth reduce to half over the fire, then add the slices of calf's head and a ^iU more broth, season with a little pepper and salt, when quite hot through add half an ounce of butter, with which you have mixed a teaspoonful of flour first breaking it into four or five pieces, shake round over the fire until beco'mino- a little thickish, add a Httle colouring (No. 146) to give alight brown colour pour out upon your dish, and serve with a few slices of gherkins sprinkled over. Calf's head may also be cut in slices, warmed, and served with some of the sauces as directed for fillet of beef, or curried as for the ox tails (^0. 156) ; hashed calf's head with a couple of spoonfuls of currie paste added is also very excellent. No. 161. Calf's Brains and Tongue. Boil the tongue in stock or water until tender, lay the brains in lukewarm water to disgorge, then care- fully take off aU. the skin, put about a quarter of a pound of butter in a saute- pan, rub all oyer the bottom, cut the brains in shces, lay them in the pan, season with a little pepper, salt, and lemon-juice, place over a moderate fire, and when set turn them over, add about a gill of melted butter, and a little milk, if too thick, season a little more if required, shake the saute-pau round, moving the brains from the bottom, but not breaking them, and pour upon a dish, skin and trim the tongue, cut it in halves lengthwise, glaze and serve dressed upon the brains. Slieep and lamb's tongues and brains are dressed in precisely the same manner as the calf s. No. 162. Veal Cutlets, the English Method. Procure a piece of fillet of veal weighing about four pounds, from which (to the best advantage) cut eight or ten pieces of the shape and size of fillets of fowl, season lightly with a little pepper and salt, have a couple of eggs, well beaten, upon a plate, into which dip the cutlets, and afterwards into bread-crumbs, beat lightly, then cut four or five slices of streaked bacon, which fry in a saute or fiying-pan, when done talce out and lay in the cutlets, which, fry of a nice light brown colour, dress the bacon and cutlets alternately upon your dish, pour as much fat as possible out of the pan, into which pour a quarter of a pint of water, and the same of melted butter, boil until becoming rather thickish, when add a tablespoonful of Harvey sauce, one of catsup, a little colouring (No. 146), and a little pepper and salt, boil another second, pass through a sieve over the cutlets, and serve. Veal cutlets cut and fried as above may also be served upon some very light mashed potatoes, omitting the sauce.