KITCHEN AT HOME. 672 No. 134. Ducks may also be stuffed and roasted as a goose, a few apples may also be used with the stuffing instead of potatoes, for either ducks or geese, if approved of. No. 135. Ducks a l'Axjbergiste (or TAVERN-KEErER's Fashion). Truss one or two ducks with the legs turned inside, put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter; place them over a slow fire, turning round occasionally, until they have taken a nice brown colour, add two spoonfuls of flour, mix well with them, add a quart of water, with half a tablespoonful of salt and sugar, let simmer gently until the ducks are done (but adding forty button onions well peeled as soon as it begins to boil), keep hot; peel and cut ten turnips in slices, fry them in a frying-pan in butter, drain upon a cloth, put them into the sauce, and stew until quite tender; dress the ducks upon your dish, skim the fat from the sauce, which has attained a consis- tency, pour round the ducks and serve. SIMPLIFIED ENTREES. The word entree is a French culinary term (universally known by the nobility and gentry of Europe) signifying a corner or made dish in which sauce is introduced, the importance of which is known in the kitchens of the wealthy as forming the size and magnitude of a dinner; being con- sidered as the principal dish upon which it is intended to dine well, the wealthy epicure orders his cook to prepare a dinner of four, six, or eight entrees, thus making a criterion for the second course, which, in the opinion of real gourmets, is a secondary consideration of delight, and very often left entirely to the cook. But when a lady of moderate income is considted, she very properly devotes all her attention, good taste, and economy to the subject. The entrees, however, which I am here about to describe are very econo- mical ; whilst those entrees of importance, which are so well known for theh excellence and unavoidable expense, I have left to those whose means will better afford it, and content myself with here offering to my readers those only with which I would be content in placing before my fi-iends at home. My readers will find that certain made dishes, instead of being expensive, tend to greater economy, every ordinary cook might be perfect in roasting and boiling a joint, but quite incapable of making a single made dish to per- fection, even from the remains of a joint. In a tradesman's family it often happens that he dines once or twice a week from a Sunday joint, either m winter or summer ; in the last it is partly excusable, but in the former hot meat, for such an important meal, is much more preferable, being more light than cold, and of course digests more freely ; to prove the truth of this argu- ment, pickles are continually used with cold meat to invigorate and open the appetite, and facilitate digestion; I would always advise to take a httle cold lunch, and a hot late dinner, if circumstances permit, and avoid as much as possible a supper, particularly a late one. SAUCES —No. 136. For daily use I avoid making any foundation sauces, but when I want to give a httle party at home, I generally previously provide a small quantity of white and brown sauce as follows : , . , , Cut and chop a knuckle of veal, weighing about four pounds, into large