KITCHEN AT HOME. cSstard I should coSe to o n i "1^"'^'/'"'' ' o^^it ^ the use of an essence wh oh T . ^ f . of neglect, is generally obtained by w 1 t«™"tes in another stewpan, have the yolks of eight e^T over tl fi i"^^'^"'^' ^^11 ^^^"i ™i-i»S by deSs sS wllh , In ', r tl^i^kening, when pass it through a tannnil info a bow?^ which place upon ice, or m cold water, keeping it stirred untU ouite cnkl when mix a gill of cream whipped very sti£f,%%our cups, sprhikT^^ ratahas over, and they are ready to serve F^iuiiie ciusnea By adding a little dissolved isinglass to the above when cooling any de scription of spirits or liquors may be introduced ^' ^ The cream may be omitted, it wiU then make a good plain custard. No 252. Cabinet Pudding. Well butter a plain round mould or basin round the interior of which stick a quantity of diied cherries, or Smyrn^ raisms, then about three parts fill the mould with sponge-cake, interspersing two ounces of ratafias, over which sprinlcle a good glass of brandy, then have ready the following custard: boH a pint of milk, in which infuse the rind of two lemons, free from pith, m a basin, have six whole eggs, which weU whisk with a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, and add the milk bv degrees' pass through a tammie and fill up the mould, round the edge of which place a band of buttered paper, have a convenient-sized stewpan, with about two inches m depth of boihng water, place in your pudding, cover a sheet of paper over, and let simmer gently over the fire, keeping the stewpan covered down close untd the pudding becomes quite firm, by which time you should be ready to serve it, take out, detach the paper, and turn from the mould over upon a dish ; have ready the following sauce : put half a pint of melted butter into a stewpan, into which stir the yolks of two eggs, and add a glass- ful of brandy, with the juice of a lemon, and sufficient sugar to sweeten it, stir over the fire until becoming a little thick, when pass it through a tammie, sauce over the pudding and serve. No. 253. Bread Pudding. Procure four French roUs, the crumb of which put into a basin, with a pint of boiling milk, let remain until half cold, when add six whole eggs, with a quarter of a pound of currants, and one ounce of candied citron, cut into very small dice, mix the whole well together, have ready prepared as in the last a plain round mould, in which pour the above mixture, steam it as in the last; when done and ready to serve, turn from the mould, and serve with the same sauce poured over as before directed. No. 254. Ground Rice Pudding. Place a pint of milk in a stewpan over the fire, and when boiling throw in the rind of a lemon, cut as thinly as possible, and quite fi'ee from pith; take from the fire, cover the stewpan, and leave ten minutes to infuse; then in a basin have six ounces of ground rice, which mix smoothly with half a pint of coJd milk, take out the lemon- peel from the milk in the stewpan, pour in the mixture, and stir the whole over the fire until thickening, when take from the fire; add six whole eggs,