671 KITCHEN AT HOME. pau, with a carrot, turnip, leek, and a head of celery, also cut small, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a hay-leaf, four cloves, a blade of mace, half a pound of lean ham, and two pounds of veal cut in dice, cover them with two quarts of water, then lay in the turkey breast downwards, cover the stew- pan close and let it simmer about two hours over a slow fire ; then take it up, place it upon your dish, with a cover over it to keep it hot, then pass the stock from it through a hah- sieve into a stewpan, place it upon the fire, boil and skim off" all the grease; then in another stewpan place two ounces of butter, let melt, then stir in a sufficient quantity of flour to make a roux, stir over the fire some time, but keeping it quite white, then take it off", stir until partly cold, add the stock, boil, keep it stu:red; if too thick add a little milk, season with a Httle salt and sugar, place four cauliflowers nicely boiled round the turkey, sauce over the whole and serve ; a boiled ham, tongue, or a piece of bacon is usually served separate with it. No. 129. Capons or Poulardes are almost too extravagant for My Kitchen at Home, but may be either plain roasted or braised, as directed for the turkey in the last, and served with peas, French beans, or sauce jardiniere, made as directed for the legs or shoulders of lamb, only for jardiniere, stewing the vegetables in the sauce you have made from your braise, instead of the method there directed. No. 130. Fowls WITH Mushroom Sauce. Braise two fowls, trussed for boiling, precisely as directed for braised turkey; when your sauce is made, add a pottle of white button mushrooms, stew for half an hour in the sauce, adding a httle sugar, then stir in a liaison of one yolk of egg mixed with a spoonful of cream, take it instantly from the fire, dress the poularde upon vour dish, and sauce over. No. 133. Fowls with Spring Vegetables. Braise a poularde as di- rected for the turkey, and make a sauce from the braise as there directed ; then have twenty young carrots and twenty young turnips, lightly peeled, and three parts boUed, with twenty small onions, drain and put them into your sauce, which you have made as (No. 136), with a good teaspoonful of powdered sugar; stew them gently until tender, then dress the poidarde upon your dish, arrange the vegetables tastefully around, mix half a giU of cream with the sauce, boil a few minutes, sauce over the whole and serve. No. 132. Fowls Braised Fricassee Sauce. Braise the fowls as before, and make the sauce from the braise, in which put a bunch of parsley, fifty button onions, and a pottle of mushrooms, both well peeled, stew half an hour, add a little sugar, salt, and a gdl of cream, boil a few minutes, sauce over and serve. Chickens may be dressed in either of the above methods, calculating the time they requu-e cooking by their size. No. 133. Roast Goose. Pluck, draw, and truss a goose, fiU the inside with sage and onions, by cutting four large onions into small dice, and put them into a stewpan with a few leaves of sage (chopped fine), and a couple of well-boiled mealy potatoes, crumbled very small, add two ounces of butter, and a little pepper and salt; when the onions become tender stuff" the goose, the day previous if time permit, which roast an hour and a quarter before a moderate fire, serve plain, with a little gravy on the dish, and apple sauce separate. '