KITCHEN AT liOME. 694 No. 215. Snipes a la Minute. Put a quarter of a pound of butter in a stewpan over winch lay six snipes, breasts downwards, add a spoonful of chopped onions, one ditto of parsley, a littled grated nutmeg, half a tea- spoontul of salt, and a saltspoonful of pepper; set over a brisk fire seven or ten nimutes (according to the size of the birds), stirring occasionally then add the juice of two lemons, two glasses of sherry or bucellas wine, and a spoonful of finely-grated crust of bread ; let the whole simmer a few minutes dress the birds upon a dish, mix the sauce well, pour over and serve. No. 216. Plovers with English raw Truffles. Put a quarter of a pound of butter in a stewpan, over which place foflr plovers, breasts down- M^ards, and eight raw truffles, well washed, peeled, and cut into thickish slices ; add also two cloves, a bay-leaf, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a salt- spoonful of pepper; pass the whole ten minutes over a sharp fire, stirrino' occasionally, add half a tablespoonful of flour, mix well, moisten with a gifl of broth and a glass of white wine, let simmer ten minutes longer, skim well, dress the birds upon a dish, reduce the sauce, add a little sugar and the juice of a lemon, sauce over, and serve. No. 217. Wild Duck. Truss as directed (p. 688), rub all over with the liver, making it quite red, and roast twenty minutes before a good fire, then with a sharp knife cut eight incisions down the breast; you have put an ounce of butter into a stewpan with a quarter of a saltspoonful of cayenne, the rind of an orange, free froni pith, cut in strips, blanched in boiling water and well drained upon a sieve, and the juice of a lemon; warm over the fire, and when melted, but not oily, pour over the duck and serve. No. 218. Hashed Wild Duck. Cut up the remains of a duck or ducks into neat pieces, and put into a stewpan with half or a tablespoonful of flour, depending upon the quantity; mix well, moisten with a glass or two of wine, and sufiicient broth or water to make a thickish sauce, season well, add a little Harvey sauce, mushroom catsup, a little sugar and cayenne pepper; let simmer but not boil, take out the pieces, which dress upon toast, reduce the sauce, pour over, and serve. A Uttle colouring may be added if approved of. No. 219. Widgeons. Truss as for wild ducks, rub over with some of their hvers, chop up the remainder, which mix with a few bread-crumbs, a little chopped lemon-peel, chopped parsley, and an egg, with which stuff" the interior; roast nearly as long as for the wild duck before a very sharp fire, dress upon toast on a dish, and have ready the following sauce: put half a glass of port wine into a stewpan, with a teaspoonful of chopped eschalot, a little salt, pepper, and cayenne; boil a few minutes, add the juice of a lemon, and two ounces of fresh butter, sauce over and serve. Widgeons are hashed in the same manner as described for wild duck. No. 220. Teal, a neav Method. Procure four, diwv them, then put b;df a pound of butter upon a plate, with a little pepper, grated nutmeg, parsley, a spooonful of grated crust of bread, the juice of a lemon, and the liver of the teal; mix well together, and with it fill the interior of the teal; cover them with slices of lemon, fold in thin slices of bacon, then in paper, and roast twenty minutes before a sharp fire; take off the paper, brown the bacon, dress them upon a sHce of thick toast, letting the butter from the teal run over it, and serve very hot.