KITCHEN AT HOME. G79 tails stirrinff them round gently until well covered with the sauce, set over r sbw fi"e to stew very slowly for half an hour, moving them round occa- li alVfin sh wiTh a Lie salt and the juice of half a lemon ; dress upon a dT^^va^^cUj, pour the sauce, which must be rather thick, over, and serve with rice boUed as directed (page 51), upon a separate dish. Another way for a change, would be to introduce four very ripe tomatas at the Lme time^with the potato and currie-powder omitting the lemon-jnice, and adding half a teaspoonful of sugar. A tab espoonful of currie-paste added to aSy description of hash would convert it into a very good curne. No 157. Ragout op Ox Tails. Cut two ox tails into pieces two inches in length, rub two ounces of butter over the bottom of a convenient- sized stewpan, place in the pieces of taUs, with half a pound of streaked bacon cat into square pieces the size of walnuts, place over a moderate fire, stirring occasionally until nicely browned, but not in the least burnt, add two ounces of flour (mix weU) and three pints of water, when boiling and halt cooked add a bunch of parsley, with two bay-leaves, twenty young carrots or pieces of old ones, and twenty button onions, season with a teaspoontul ot salt, a half ditto of sugar, and a quarter ditto of pepper, let simmer until the tails and vegetables are quite tender, keeping weU skimmed, when take out and dress them in pyramid upon mashed potatoes, garnish round with the vegetables, pass the sauce through a hair sieve into another stewpan, place over the fire, stir with a wooden spoon until adhering to the back, when pour over the tails, and serve very hot. No. 158. Ox Cheeks are very dehcate when well stewed, and may be purchased very cheap, they require soaking aU night, and about six hours to blanch in salt and water, until the flesh wiU detach easily from the bone, when take it out, remove the bone, place some onion, carrot, and turnip, in sUces, in a large flat stewpan, with a piece of bacon, a few sprigs of thyme, pai-sley, and two bay-leaves, cover with a little stock (if any) or water, place the flesh from the cheek over, put in a moderate oven until very tender, when take up, dress upon a dish, and serve with a sharp sauce over. Ox cheeks may also be served in currie, or converted into a ragout after blanching, as directed for ox tails. Should you happen to have the remains of a fresh ox tongue it would be very good cut in slices, warmed, and served with a shai"p sauce, or hashed ; the remains of a pickled one may be used in any little made dish of veal, or poultry, hereafter described; to some persons it is, however, preferable cold. No. 159. Ox Kidneys are very good for breakfast or luncheon; cut the kidneys into thin slices, avoiding the piece in the centre, put two ounces' of butter in a stewpan, with a little chopped eschalots, place over the fire, when becoming a little browned add the kidneys, which keep stirring for five minutes still over tlie fire, add half a tablespoonful of flour (mLx well), two glasses of sherry, two of water, half a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, one of chopped parsley, and a bay-leaf, let simmer gently five minutes, not, however, to boil, or they would become hard and indigestible, should the sauce be too thin add a little butter and flour mixed together, it