641 KITCHEN AT HOME. This bold joint never makes its appearance in my kitchen at home, but I have frequently used the piece of fillet attached to it, which weighs from three to five pounds; I leave about an inch of fat upon it, pass a small spit through, and roast from three quarters of an hour to an hour ; for gravy I proceed as for the sirloin. Cold potatoes, previously boiled, put under it in the di-ipping-paa whilst roasting, and turned occasionally, are very excellent. No. 4. Baron op Beef. It is an old saying that two extremes often meet, so with me I leave my five pounds joint roasting and, like Gulliver, make a step towards the empire of the giant. This is, indeed, a colossal joint, wliich at first sight would put a modest fire out of conceit, my smoke-jack out of order, and, above all, drive my few guests' appetites from their frugal stomachs ; they not being initiated in the grandeur or importance of a civic or aristo- cratic banquet would consider it a mighty dish of vulgarity. But stay, friends, I would observe grandeur and magnitude are far from being vulgar; to prove that my assertion is correct I have the opinion of ages, for it is a dish almost as old as England herself. I have before stated that Charles the Second gave the title and importance to the sirloin, and I have no doubt the baron owes its origin also to some such cause or great event, which I will attempt to discover for the information of some of my readers who, like myself, at present may be entirely ignorant of its origin, which I feel assured will prove interesting. A baron of beef is generally cut from a small ox, and includes the two riiraps and two sirloins with one of the rib bones on each side; it must be trussed precisely as for a saddle of mutton; pass a spit, which of course must not be too lai-ge, through the spinal marrow bone, then wrap the beef up in paste as for a haunch of venison (No. 540), only a httle thicker, add also more paper, set it three feet from a brisk fire, pouring fat over the paper to prevent its catching fire, twenty minutes afterwards remove the spit two feet further from the fire, enclose it well with the fire-screen, and roast eight or nine hours, keeping it tm-ned by hand, half an hour before it is done take ofi" the paste and paper and give the beef a fine gold colour, when take up, dress in a dish with gravy under and serve. The ancdent style was to serve a representation of St. George and the dragon, cut from vegetables, upon the top, fresh salad also of every description used to be placed around, but the whole was obhged to be moved at the commencement of carving. Having promised my readers that I would make all possible inquiry relat- ing to the origin of the inviting joint called baron of beef, a careful search into " Hone" and others, has not, I regret to say, been attended with quite a favourable result, and the only information which I can at present obtain is the legendary one that King John after signing Magna Charta at Eunnymede partook of a repast in the company of his barons consisting of the saddle and part of the ribs of beef roasted, and that hence arose the say- ing " baron of beef." Now this appears very much like the traveller's talc that had but one pomt in its favour, namely, that no one present could possibly contradict it. No. 5. Round of Beef. " Here," says John Bull, with a good-humoured countenance, (standmg near a table upon which was a round of beef beina; prepared for dressing, clapping his hands upon his knees and bending with no httle difficulty his colossal stomach,) " do you know, ray excellent friend " says he to me, " I fear you cannot cook that glorious dish to perfection, for I 41