653 KITCHEN AT ROME. No 3fi Mutton Broth. Any description of trimmings of mutton may be used for broth, but the scrag end of the neck is usually chosen; put about two scrags into a stewpan Oiaving previously jointed the bone), with three onions (a couple of cloves stuck in each), three turnips, one carrot, and a bunch containing a leek, a head of celery, and a few spngs of thyme and parslev, fill up the stewpan with rather more than a gaUon of water; when boiling skim it, and place it at the corner of the stove, where let it simmer for three hours, then cut a smaU carrot, two, turnips, an onion, and a piece ot leek and celery into very small square pieces, put them into a stewpan with a wineglassful of pearl barley, pass the broth through a hau- sieve over them, and boil at the corner of the fire until the barley is tender, when it is ready to serve; the meat may be trimmed into neat pieces, and served m the broth, or separately with melted butter and parsley, or onion sauce. No. 37. Irish Mutton Broth. This broth is made similar to the last, addin'o- ten or twelve mealy potatoes cut in large dice, which by boiling to a puree''thickens the broth; just before serving throw in twenty heads of parsley, at the same time put in a few flowers of marigolds, which really give a pleasing flavour; it is then ready to serve. At home I make clear soup of the trimmings of any meat, either beef, veal, mutton, or lamb, or the trimmings of two or three different sorts of meat, in the same manner as directed for Julienne soup. No. 38. A VERY SIMPLE RECEIPT FOR THE ScOTCH CoCK-A-LeEKEY. This is a very favourite national soup with the Scotch, which by rights ought to have been the pride of Welch cookery, ranking as high in the estimation of millions as their celebrated and generally appreciated rai-e bit, commonly called a Welsh rabbit. Take six or eight pounds of leg of beef (depending upon the quantity you want to make), with which make a stock as dii-ected for Julienne soup, let- ting simmer two hours, and keeping it weU skimmed; in the mean time trim two or three bunches of fine winter leeks, cutting off" the roots and part of the head, then split each in halves lengthwise, and each half in three, wash well in two or three waters, pass the stock through a sieve into another stewpan, into which put the leeks, with a fowl trussed as for boiling, let simmer very gently at the corner of the fire for three hours, keeping it well skimmed, season a little if required, and half an hour before serving add two dozen French plums, without breaking them; when ready to serve, take out the fowl which cut into neat pieces, place in a large tureen, and pour the leeks and broth over, the leeks being then partly in puree; if too thick, however, add a drop more broth or water. Should the leeks happen to be old and strong it would be better to blanch them five minutes in a gallon of boiling water previously to putting them with the stock. Although an old cock is usually procured in Scotland for the above purpose, I prefer a young one, but should an old one be most handy stew it a short time in the stock before passing it. No. 39. Ox-tail Soup. Cut up two ox-tails, separating them at the joint, put a small piece of butter at the bottom of a stewpan, then put in the ox- tails, with a carrot, turnip, three onions, head of celery, one leek, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, add half a pint of water and twehe grains of whole pepper, set over a sharp fire, stirring occasionally until the