XX CARVING OF POULTRY. keep their own park of deer, as we found it interfered with both legs, which look like legs of mutton, and deprived them of the best part of the fat, which cannot be dispensed with: in other respects thev are excellent for pies. I have also introduced a sauciere, made like a coffee-pot, heated by a spu:it-lamp underneath, filled with good veal or beef gravy, to be taken round to each guest; the great heat of the gravy poured over the shoes of venison, mixed with the gravy already helped from the haunch, makes a fine thick mixture, by which this delightful and noble joint is really enjoyed; the currant jelly always served ought not to be too sweet or too firm. French beans, usually served with venison, ought to be very young and green, well dried, and very hot when sent to table; in case they could not be obtained, send up cauliflower or young brocoh with it; however I must here observe, that these vegetables are very unpalat- able, as nothing disagrees more with currant jelly than French beans and brocoH. I have substituted tomatas/arc?, as described No. 1099, when in season, and served on a silver dish : they were much approved of. Plain broiled tomatas must be cut across, with the juice extracted without breaking ; then put on the gridiron, with salt and pepper, on a very sharp fire, turn them, when done dish up, add a Uttle butter over each, and send very hot. CARVING OF POULTRY. A fowl which has been prepared with the Tendon Separator before roasting, can produce afterwards ten very inviting pieces, suitable to the fancy of as many guests. In the first place you take a carving fork, which you stick in the breast, between figs. 5 ffnd 6, then you give a cut at the fiUet, beginning at 1 down to 2, where you make the point of the knife cut through the joint of the wing, which by twisting a little will easily come asunder. The same operation is done from 3 to 4; and without removing the fork, you slide the knife under the leg at 7, and the same at 8, and both legs wUl immediately separate. The next cut is to be given at 5 to 6, and afterwards the back is divided in the same direc- tion as the last numbers—as each leg is divided at the joint commonly called drumstick, it completes the ten parts. A Duck. The best part of a duck is the breast, which should be cut in fillets obliquely, then the wings and the legs, the same as the fowl, and the body in two. A Pheasant. The best parts are the breast and legs, which are carved the same as a fowl. A Partridge. The wings and the body are the best pai'ts. A roast Hare must be cut along the spine, from the neck downwards to obtain the fillets, which ought then to be divided in parts, in the same oblique direction as the ribs. The legs and shoulders are seldom carved, but they are, with the body, excellent in a hash or stewed.