sont la les qualites qui seraient envi^es par les plus habilcs de nos maitres Ss ce que U0U8 admirons par-dessus tout, dans sou sens le plus vrai, est a touche c?elicate, la douceur du coloris, toujours plem de souplesse et de naivete."—ifl Bevue des Deux Mondes. "Une Glaneuse, par Madame Soyer, de Londres. a passe inaper^u. Les critiques et le public se sont bien gardes d'en parler, parce que ce tableau, quoique renfermant de tres grandes quaUtes, ne plait pas au premier abord. Nous ne connaissons point Madame Soyer; nous ne pourrions meme dire si ce nom est un pseudonyme, ou s'H est veritablement celui de cette artiste. Ce qu'il y a de singulier, c'est que jamais aucune femme n'a pemt avec autant de verve, de chaleur et d'entrain. Madame Soyer (en supposant tou- iours que Madame Soyer soit une femme) est aux autres pemtres ce que Madame George Sand est aux litterateurs. Nous verrons plus tard si cette femme-peintre se soutiendra, et si ses productions prochames vaudront celles de cette annee."—La Capitole. " The appearance of a very beautiful engraving of tbe picture of ' The Jew Lemon-sellers' reminds us of the loss which art has sustained in the death of Madame Soyer. This gifted lady, better known, perhaps, as Miss Emma Jones, has been snatched away in the midst of a career, the opening success of which fully justified the most flattering anticipations of her numerous friends. Some of Madame Soyer's pictures exhibited here were the subjects of very general admiration, and such of our readers as visited the last exhibition at Paris (where Madame Soyer was even more popular than in England) will recall with pleasure her picture, in the style of Murillo, of ' The Two IsraeUtes,' which received so much praise from the French critics. The devotion of Madame Soyer to the art which she so much adorned by her talents is illustrated as much in the number as in the excellence of her works, which form the basis of a lasting and honorable fame. Although but twenty-nine years of age when she died, she had already painted no less than 403 pictures. Many of them are in the possession of the most distin- guished collectors in this country."—Morning Chronicle, KITCHEN OF THE REFORM CLUB. " We copy the following, by the Vicountess de Malleville, from the last number of the Courrier de VEurope. Without subscribing to the justice of all the writer's remarks, we think, as the opinion of an intelligent foreigner, that the article will be read with some interest. " ' We now quit the upper regions and foUow the secretary of the club, and the politest and most obliging cicerone in the world. Theatrically speaking, we have as yet only seen the stage and its sumptuous decorations from the boxes and pit; we now go behind the scenes, among the scene-shifters and the machinists. But unlike in a theatre, we see no naked walls behind the scenes—no tattered draperies—no floors strewed with sawdust. This flue apartment is the kitchen—spacious as a ball-room, kept in the finest order, and white as a young bride. All-powerful steam, the noise of which salutes your ear as you enter, here performs a variety of offices : it diffuses a uniform heat to large rows of dishes, warms the metal plates, upon which are disposed the dishes that have been called for, and that are in waiting to be sent aijove ; it tui-ns the spits, draws the water, carries up the coal, and moves the plate