644 KITCHEN AT HOME. from the sheep, it reqmres hut little trimming, and to be hung about three Aveeks, (season permitting). Saw about three inches from the knuckle, detach all the skin from the loin and put it upon a spit, commencing running the spit in at the knuckle and bringing it out at the flap, avoiding the fillet of the loin (a cradle spit may be used for this joint) set it down at the distance of two feet from a good solid fire, and if weighing about twenty pounds it requires two hours and a half roasting, ten minutes after it is down rub it over with butter, which you have fixed in the bowl of a wooden spoon, it will form a kind of froth over it, then place it back three feet from the fire, where let it continue until done, if approved of shake over a little fiour from a flour-dredge a quarter of an hour before taking it up, when done dress upon your dish with a paper frill upon the knuckle and about half a pint of gravy under. If the meat is rather fat the butter may be omitted. No. 10. Sotek's Saddle Back of Mutton. This is an entirely new joint which I have introduced, in this present month, April 1846. I have served it but three times in our cofi"ee-room, where it gave the greatest satis- faction to those who had partaken of them, they having dined from fifteen to eighteen each, whilst two saddles which would weigh six or eight pounds more would not dine more than seven or eight if badly carved, or more than ten if properly carved in the usual manner, the cut is a correct repre- sentation of the appearance of the new joint, with serves to indicate the mode of carving. It is composed of the two loins and two necks of a sheep trimmed into the form of a double saddle without interfering in the least with the legs and shoulders, which would cause a serious loss to the butcher. Trim and dispose the saddle back as follows : saw the centre bone of the back as far as the saddle, dividing it but not cutting the meat or making a hole through, then with a small saw divide each joint, so as to admit of the necks being cut into chops in carving, when well separated take a piece of a good length from the ends of the rib bones, trim the flaps, turn them under, fixing them with skewers and string, giving the proper shape as the design represents, pull the skin from the whole back, melt two ounces of butter, which rub over with a paste brush to give a good appearance and let remain five or six days previous to roasting, weather permitting. To roast pass a long saddle of mutton spit through the spinal marrow bone, brmging it out at the ends of the necks, fix it to a larger spit, and place at a good distance from a moderate fire for nearly three hours, avoid basting, but a quarter of an hour before taking up shake a little flour mixed with some finely-ground rice over, which is very good for a little change. This joint looks very noble and does not appear too large when roasted. For a small dinner a saddle