670 KITCHEN AT IIQME. boiling add tlie mince, and season with a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of white pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. No. 123. Loin or Neck of Pork a la Botjrguinotte. The neck or loin must be plain roasted; you have peeled and cut four onions in dice, put them into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, stir over the fire until rather brown, then add a tablespoonful of flour, mix well, add a good pint of broth if any, or water, with an ounce of glaze, boil ten minutes, add two table- spoonfuls of French mustard, with a little pepper, salt, and sugar, pour the sauce upon the dish, and dress your joint upon it; serve with a httle apple sauce separate in a boat. No. 124. Loin or Neck of Pork, Normandy Fashion. Procure a neck or loin, put it in a common earthen dish, having previously scored the rind, rub over with a little oil, place about twenty potatoes cut in halves or in quarters in the dish with the pork, ten onions peeled, and twenty apples peeled and quartered, place in a warm oven for an hour and a half or more, then dress it upon your dish with the apples, onions, and potatoes around, and serve. No. 125. Pig's Cheek, a new Method. Procure a pig's cheek nicely pickled (see page 649), boil well until it feels very tender, tie half a pint of spht peas in a cloth, put them into a stewpan of boiling water, boil about half an hour, take them out, pass through a hair sieve, put them into a stew- pan, with an ounce of butter, a httle pepper and salt, and four eggs, stir them over the fire until the eggs are partially set, then spread it over the pig's cheek, egg with a paste-brush, sprinkle bread-crumbs over, place in the oven twenty minutes, brown it with the salamander and serve. No. 126. Sucking Pig is merely plain roasted (see page 204), stuffedmth sage and onions, but before putting it upon the spit it requires to be floiu-ed and rubbed very dry, otherwise the skin would not eat crisp ; the usual me- thod of serving*^ it is to cut off the head, and divide the body and head of the pig in halves, lengthwise; serve apple sauce separate in a boat if ap- proved of. In My Kitchen at Home I can also roast a haunch or neck of venison, de- pending upon which is presented to me, and precisely as recommended in the other department of this book (page 222) ; for the remains I also proceed the same. No. 127. Roast Turkey. Pluck, draw, and truss a turkey for roasting, stuff it at the breast with the same stuffing as directed for the fillet of veal (page 51) ; if it should weigh twelve pounds it will require two hours roast- ing before 'a strong fire, when done take it off the spit, take away the skewer and string it was trussed with, hold it by the legs, sprinkle a little salt over, and pour a little hot water or broth over the back to make a gravy,* and serve with broiled sausages, ham, or a piece of boiled bacon, separate. No. 128. Braised Turkey. Truss a nice turkey with the legs inside as for boiling then put three onions in slices at the bottom of a stew- * If you should have a little gravy, use it ijistead of water, if not a piece of glaze udded to half a pint of water would make a very good gravy.