18 many of. the speculations in which we hud indulged, and of the principles which we had advocated, were obviously not quite in harmony with the views long inculcated by us on a docile public. Suddenly the truth flashed across and illuminated the perplexity of our pon- derings. We were aware that, early in the evening, a much milder censure than usual upon some factious Liberal manoeuvre had passed our lips. This toolc place just about the fourth spoonful of^soup. The spells were already in operation under the shape of " potagc a la Marcus Hill." There is a fascination even in the name of this " delicious «oup"— such is the epithet of Sojer—which oui renders will better understand in the sequel. Again it was impossible to deny that we had hazarded several equivocal observations in reference to the Palmerstonian policy in Syria. But it was equally true that such inadvertencies slipped from us while laboriously engaged in determining a delicate competition between " John T)or6e A I'Orliannaise''nnA " satnnon a la Bei/ruut." A transient compliment to the influence at elections of the famous Duchess of Devonshire was little liable to ol)jeclion, we imagined, during a playful examination of a few " aiguillettes devolaille a lujolie fdle." More questionable, it must be admitted, were certain assertions regarding the Five Points, enunciated hastily over a " neck of mutton a la C/iarte." No fault, however, had we to find with the; utting facetiousness with which we had garnished "cotelettes d'agneau a la riforme en surprise aux c/iainpignons.'' The title of this dish was so ludicrously applicable to the consternation of the remnants of the Melbourne ministry—the cutlets of lamb—in finding themselves outrun in the race by mushroom free-traders, that our pleasantry there- anent was irresistible. It was difficult, at the same time, to justify the expression of an opinion, infinitely too favorable to Peel's commercial policy, yielding to the allurements of a " turban des cailles d la financiere." And, on the whole, we smarted beneath a con- sciousness that all our conversation had been perceptibly flavoured by "filets de becasses d la Talleyrand." The result of these reflections was, simply, an alarming conviction of the tremendous influence exercised by Soyer throughout all the workings of the British constitution. The causes of the success of the League begin to dawn upon us, while our gravest suspicions are confirmed by the appearance, at this peculiar crisis, of ' The Gastronomic Regenerator.' What patriotism can withstand a superabundance of untaxed food, cooked according to the tuition of Soyer ? How can public virtue keep its ground against such a rush of the raw material, covered by such a " Imtterie de cuisine ?" Cobden and Soyer, in alliance, have given a new turn, and terribly literal power, to the fable of Menenius Agrippa. " There was a time when all the body's members Rebell'd against the belly." Such times are gone. The belly now has it all its own way, while " The kingly-crowned head, the vigilant eye, , The counsellor heart, the arm our soldier. Our steed the leg, the tongue our trumpeter," are conjunctly and severally cuffed or bunged up, or broken, or stifled, unless they are perpetually ministering to the service of the great cormorant corporation. It is mighty well to talk of the dissolution of the League. The testament of Cajsar, commented on by Mark Antonv, was eventually more fatal to the liberties of Rome, than the irrepressible ambition which originally urged the arch-traitor across the Rubicon. ' The Gastronomic Regene- rator,' in the hands of every housewife in the country, is merely to convert the most invincible portion of the community into a p-rpetual militia of free-traders. All cooks proverbially encourage an enormous consumption of victuals. The study of Soyer will infallibly transform three fourths of the empire into cooks. Consequently, the demand lor every variety of sustenance, by an immense majority of the nation, will be exorbitant and perennial. No syllogism can be more unassailable. We venture also to afliim that the udgment of posterity will be rigidly true in apportioning the endurance of fame which t ie conflicting merits of our great benefactors may deserve. It is lar from unlikely tliat the glories of a Peel may be disregarded, forgotten, and unsung, when the trophies ol a Soyer, still odorous, and unctuous, and Iresh, shall be in everybody's mouth. The 'Gastronomic Regenerator' has not assumed his imposing title without a lul appreciation of the dignity of his office, and the °'. ^^'^^''if „ J"^*^^^ craceful "dialogue culinaire" between Lord M. H. and himsell, illustrate, the gr.in.l doctrines that man is a cooking animal, and that the progress of cooking is of civilization. There is something prodigiously sublime in the words ol the noble inter- t:Z^l!Z he declares," Read hi'story: and you see that in -^IS^-I.-^. ^^^^^^^^^^^^^ nations the good which has been done, and sometimes the ovd, has been ah ajM'rrc«^ or followed by a copious dinner." This language, we presume, must be ' " ' CTeat scale as aDplitable to the most solemn and momentous occurrences in ti.e lusl .ry of foTernmente a J'iia^ Not that we can e.xclude it from individual biography. Dene-