683 KITCHEN AT HOME. the size vou may require, shaping them with a knife, dipping twice into eggs and b arcrumL. patting thL|ently, frying alightbrown -lour m a ste pan of hot lard or dripping, and serving upon a napkin gar ushcd with fned parsley; they may be made in oblong shapes, the size and length of smaU sausaaes, and fried as above, they are then called boudins. Patties may also be made from cooked veal, preparing a blanquette as before described, and leaving it upon a dish untd cold ; hue six large patty- pans very thinly with half puff paste (see page 480), lay some of the veal in the centre of each, sprinkle a little water over, and cover with sheets of the same paste of the thickness of a five-shilling piece, egg over crimp the edges a little with a knife, place a leaf of paste upon the top of each, and bake about twenty minutes in a very hot oven until the paste is weU done. The remains of poultiy, game, or any other description of meat may also be converted into patties in the same method as above. The remains of meat dressed as for the above patties is also very excellent for larger pies, filling the dish with it, when cold covering with paste, and baking in a rather warm oven. No. 167. Mutton Cutlets sautes. Cut eight cutlets from a neck of mutton, as directed (page 294), and put them into a saute-pan, with an ounce of butter, season well with pepper and salt, place over the fire, when becoming a httle browned turn them over, when firm to the touch they are done (which will take about ten minutes), take up and dress them upon your dish, pour as much of the fat as possible from the pan, add a quarter of a pint of water or broth, let boil until becoming a thin glaze, add a little sugar and a spoonful of Harvey sauce, pour over the cutlets and serve. Should you want a thick sauce you can obtain it by adding a small piece of butter, with which you have mixed a little flour, to the gravy in the saute-pan, add- ing also a little colouring (No. 146). No. 168. Mutton Cutlets saute w^ith Vegetables.—Dress the cutlets as in the last, have some vegetables of all kinds (that is carrots, turnips, artichokes, and button onions) cut up small, stew them in a little broth with a Uttle sugar until tender, when pour them into the saute-pan you cooked the cutlets in, reduce until the stock becomes a thin glaze, then dress the vegetables in the centre of the cutlets, sauce over, and serve. No. 169. Mutton Cutlets, Irish Method. Cut eight or ten mutton cutlets, season well with pepper and salt, place them in a stewpan, just cover them with water, let simmer gently twenty minutes, then add forty button onions, and as many pieces of potatoes, cut with a scoop in pieces a size larger; stew until tender, dress the cutlets in a circle upon your dish, with the vegetables in the centre, skim off some of the fat from the stock in the saute-pan, reduce a little, sauce over, and serve. No. 170. Mutton Cutlets Broiled. Cut eight or ten cutlets, season well with pepper and salt, dip them into eggs, then into bread-crumbs, beat gently with a knife, have a little butter in a stewpan, which melt over the fire ; dip each cutlet into the butter, and again into bread crumbs, beat again lightly, place them upon a gridiron over a moderate fire ; when lightly coloured upon one side turn them over; they will require about ten minutes to cook thoroughly; serve plain dressed upon your dish.