6 like an intelligent and indefatigable servant. Stay awhile before this octa gonal apparatus, winch occupies the centre of the plac Aiwnd you it water boils and the stewpans bubble, and a Uttle further on isTmoveab e furnace, before which pieces of meat are converted into sa.onry rc^t^,-Ze lve sauces and gravies, stews, broths, soups, &c.; in the distance are Dutch ovens marble mortars, hghted stoves, iced plates of metal for fish, and various com- partments for vegetables, fruits, roots, and spices. After this inadequate, though prodigious nomenclature, the reader may perhaps picture to himself a state of general confusion, a disordered assemblage, resembling that of a heap of oyster-shells. If so, he is mistaken. For, in fact, you see very Uttle, or scarcely anything, of all the objects above described ; the order of their arrangement is so perfect, their distribution as a whole, and in their relative bearings to one another, aU are so inteUigently considered, that you require the aid of a guide to direct you in exploring them, and a good deal of time to ciassity in your ramd all your discoveries. " ' The man who devised the plan of this magnificent kitchen, over which he rules and governs without question or dispute, the artiste who du-ects by his gestures his subalterns tricked out in white, and whose eye takes in at a glance the most difficult combinations in the culinary art—in a word, the chef by whom every gourmet admitted within the precincts of the Eeform Club swears, is M. Soyer, of whom it may justly be said that he is not more distinguished as a professor of the science of the Vatels and Caremes, than as a well-behaved and modest man. Allow him, therefore, to give you the history of his discoveries and improvements ; let him conduct you into the smallest recesses of his establishment, the cleanliness of which would shame many a drawing-room; and listen to him, also, as he informs you that those precious pictures which crowd his own parlour are from the pencil of a wife who has recently been taken from him by a premature death. Of this you might almost doubt till he again affirms it, for, judging from the poetry of the composition, and the vigour of the colouring and the design, you might swear that these pictures were the work of Murillo when he was young. " ' Let all strangers who come to London for business, or pleasure, or curiosity, or for whatever cause, not fail to visit the Reform Club. In an age of utilitarianism, and of the search for the comfortable, like ours, there is more to be learned here than in the ruins of the Cohseum, of the Parthenon, or of Memphis.' "—Chambers's Journal. "Workhouse Cookery,—The disclosures in the Andover Union have thrown quite a new light on the science of cookery, which not even the inspii-ation of a Soyer could have hit upon. That ingenious chef de cuisine has blended together pastry and politics ; with considerable skill he has invented a Creme d'Angleterre, consisting of charms borrowed from the female aristocracy; but those ingredients, imaginary and unsubstantial as they are, must be con- sidered as solids when compared with the materials used for constituting the dishes served up to the paupers in the Andover Union. Butter, according to the new poor law cookery, is made from the skimmings of grease pots, and parochial tea is made from boiling old leaves which have already had their strength drawn out of them. " A new cookery book, edited by M'Dougal, the master of the Andover Union, is evidently a desideratum in culinary literature, which even Soycr's universal genius has hitherto left unsupplicd."—Punch,