KITCHEN AT HOME. 657 No 53. TuRBOT, THE NEW FxiENCH FASHION. Boil youi' turbot as 111 the last, but 'dress it xipon a disb without a napkin, sauce over with a thickish melted butter, (having placed a border of weU-boiled small potatoes round) sprinkle a few capers over and serve. No. 54. Turbot a la Creme is done with the remams of a turbot from a previous dinner; detach the flesh from the bone, and warm in salt and water, make cream sauce as page 99, only omit a third of the butter. Brills are cooked in the same manner as turbots, but being smaller do not require so long boihng, but iu boiling any description of fish never take it up until it leaves the bone with facility, which try by placing the point of a knife between the flesh and the bone, if done the flesh will detach imme- diately. No. 55. John Doree, Boulogne Fashiojj. John Dories, though not very handsome, are very delicate eating; choose them from four to six pounds in weight, and boil as directed for turbot; one of the above size woidd require about three quarters of an hour, if any remain dress like turbot, or with caper sauce, &c. No. 56. Salmon Plain Boiled. I prefer always dressing this fish in shces from an inch to two inches in thickness, boiling it in plenty of salt and water about half an hour the whole fish may be boiled, or the head and shoulders of a large fish, but they require longer boiling. Salmon eats firmer, by not being put into the water until boiling, dress the fish upon a' napkin, and serve with lobster sauce (page 30), shrimp, do., or plain melted butter in a boat, with fresh sprigs of parsley boiled a few minutes in it. A salmon weighing ten pounds will require an hour and a half boiling ; a head and shoulders weighing six pounds, one hour; the remains may be dressed a la cr^me, as dhected for the turbot. (No. 54). No. 57. Salmon Sauce Matelote. Cook three good slices of salmon as du-ected in the last, or a large salmon peal trussed in the form of the letter S, di-ess it upon a dish without a napkin, having previously di-ained off" all the water; have ready the following sauce : peel fifty small button onions, then put a good teaspoonful of powdered sugar into a convenient-sized stew- pan, place it upon a sharp fire, and just as the sugar melts and turns yel- lowish add a quarter of a pound of butter and the onions, place it again upon the fire, tossing them over occasionally until they become slightly browned, then add a good tablespoonful of flour, (mix well but gently), a glass of sherry, and a pint of broth (reserved from some soup), let boil at the corner of the stove, skim well, and when the onions are done and the sauce rather thick, add a little pepper, salt, a teaspoonful of catsup, one of Harvey sauce, and one ot essence of anchovies; when ready to serve add two dozen of oysters, blanched and bearded, aUow them to get quite hot, sauce over and serve. I sometimes at home make a few fish queneUes (No. 124) and add to the sauce. The remainder of the above is very good if put in the oven upon a dish with a cover over and a Uttle additional sauce. No. 58. Cod Fish Plain Boiled. (See page 119). . 59. Cod Fish sauced over wtth Oyster Sauce. Boil three slices 42