KITCHEN AT HOME. 649 Lours boiling, putting them in a stewpan with cold water and serving with iTts and greens upon a separate dish, with the leg it is also customary to serve a peas pudding made thus: tie about a pmt of spht peas loosely n TpiKlL^g c Jh, throw them into boiling water to stew until tender, then take them up, turn from the cloth upon the bade of a hair sieve, throuo-h which force them with a wooden spoon put them into a basm, add two ounces of butter, season with pepper and salt, mix well with six whole eggs, tie up tightly in a pudding cloth, boil an horn- and serve very hot. A pie's head is also excellent pickled; divide the head in two, take out the brains and detach the jaw-bones, piclde it twelve days, rubbing it every day (the brine in which you have pickled one joint, with the addition of more sak would pickle several and keep good for upwards of a month), when ready boil it nearly thi-ee hours, and serve with greens round as an accompaniment to veal or poultry. To pickle it red rub it weU with twelve pounds of salt, a quarter of a pound of saltpetre, two cakes of salt pruneUa, and half a pound of coai-se sugar, rub it every day, aUowing it to remain fifteen days in pickle after which it maybe hung and dried or smoked previously to di'essing. MADE DISHES THAT CAN BE EASILY FBEPAEED AT A MODERATE EXPENSE IN MY KITCHEN AT HOME. Preaching economy which has been practised, from age to age in all domestic works is not here my intention, as my readers must quickly perceive that the simpUcity of my recipts excludes the seal of extravagance, having simplified even dishes of some importance, which daily give and have given the greatest satisfaction at the Reform Club. The regular courses of a cuisine bourgeoise, or domestic cookery, will be found extremely easy to execute in my kitchen at home, and numbers of them done to perfection in the kitchen (or sanctorum) of a bachelor, as well as in the small cottage kitchen. No. 34. Fbench Pot-au-feu. Out of this earthen pot comes the favorite soup and bouiUi, which has been everlastingly famed as having been the support of several generations of all classes of society in France ; from the opulent to the poorest individuals, all pay tribute to its excellence and worth. In fact this soup and.bouiUi is to the French what the roast beef and plum- pudding is on a Sunday to the English. No dinner in France is served without soup, and no good soup is supposed to be made without the pot-au- feu. Generally every quarter of a century makes a total alteration in fashions and pohtics, need I say also in cookery, which must be approximated not only to the fashion but more strongly so to the poHtical world, humbly bend- ing its indispensable services to the whims and wishes of crowned heads, which invariably lead the multitude; for example, the biUs of fare of the sumptuous dinners which used to grace the tables of Louis the Fourteenth, Sixteenth, and Eighteenth, of France, were all very difierent to each other, and none of them were ever copied to grace the sumptuous and luxurious tables of the Empire; even the very features of them have undergone an entire change in our own days; every cuUnary invention taking its title and origin from some celebrated personage or extraordinary event, every innova- tion in cookery, like a change in fashion, causing us to forget those dishes which they have superseded; I have no doubt but that, if some correct historian could collect the bills of fare of dinners from various centuries and nations which