KITCHEN AT HOME. .siute nan season well with pepper and salt, place over the fire ; when done afth^ruZ a plate, pour sc^ne of the fat from the saute-pan, add a good tSlesronful of Chopped onions, pass over the fire a minute, then add a tea- spooXl of flour; moisten with half a pint of hroth or water, wi h a piece of Xze added, season a httle more, add a bay-leaf and a teaspoonful of vinegar, a one of mustard, mix weU, lay in the cutlets until quite hot, when dress upon a dish, sauce over, and serve. This sauce is good with any kind of cutlets, but especially pork. No 175. Pork Cutlets ATJX Cornichons. Cut six or eight cutlets from a middhng-sized neck of pork, season well with pepper and salt, dip in e-<.s well beaten upon a plate, and then into grated crust of bread (not too bi-own) put two ounces of lard or butter into a saute or frying-pan lay in the cutlets and fry very slowly; when done place them upon a dish ; keep hot, pour some of the fat from the pan, add a good teaspoonful ot flour, mix well, moisten with half a pint of broth or water with a piece of glaze, add half a wineglassful of vinegar, a Uttle salt, pepper, and six gherkins in slices, place the cutlets in the pan to warm gently in the sauce, then dress them upon a dish, sauce over, and serve. No. 176. Pork Cutlets sauce demi Robert. Cut eight cutlets from a neck as before, season well with pepper and salt, sprinkle chopped onions and parsley over upon both sides, beating the cutlets lightly to make them adhere, then dip them into eggs well beaten upon a plate, and then into bread-crumbs ; pat them hghtly, have some clarified butter in a stewpan, into which dip the cutlets, and again into bread-crumbs, well covering them, place them upon a gridiron over a moderate fire, broiling a nice light brown colour ; when done dress them upon a dish ; have ready the following sauce : cut two large onions mto very small dice, put them into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, fi7 of a light yellow colour, add a teaspoonful of flour, mix well, moisten with half a pint of broth and two spoonfids of vinegar, season well, let bod, skim, and reduce until rather thick, when add a spoonful of mixed mustard, one of colouring (No. 146); sauce in the centre of the cutlets and serve. No. 177. Hashed Pork. Put two spoonfuls of chopped onions into a stewpan with a wineglassful of vinegar, two cloves, a blade of mace, and a bay-leaf, reduce to half, take out the spice and bay-leaf, add half a pint of broth or water, cut some pork previously cooked into thin small slices, season weU upon a dish with pepper and salt, shake a good teaspoonful of flour over, mix all together, and put into the stewpan; let simmer gently ten minutes, pour out upon your dish, and serve with slices of gherkins in it; a little mustard may be added if approved of, or a little piccalilly with the vinegar is excellent. The remains of salt pork, though very palatable cold, if required hot may be cut into large thin slices, and placed in a buttered saute or frying-pan, with a little broth, or merely fried in the butter, and served with a puree of winter peas, made by boding half a pint of peas until tender (tied up in a cloth); when done put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter; season with pepper and salt, add a gdl of milk or cream, pour into the dish, and dress the pork over. No. 178. Pig's Livek. Procure a nice pig's liver with the caul, cut the