648 KITCHEN AT HOME. wards dress round the veal, and make a httle white sauce similar to No 7 with some of the kquor it was stewed in, or thicken the sauce with a ukle butter and flour, and add a gill of milk. No 29. Shouldeu of Veal. A shoulder weighing fourteen pounds would require two hours and a half to roast, and three hours to boil, serve with a parsley and butter sauce if boiled, or if roasted with sauce as for the dressed ^^'^^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^^ ^'^^ separate, whichever way it is Should you boil the shoulder add a few vegetables, and you may reduce the stock it was boiled m to a glaze (by continual boiling), Avhich\dU be very servicable m dressing the remains upon foUowing days, by boiling a calt s footwith the shoulder you would produce a muchgreater quantity of glaze. No. 30. Neck of Veal is usually served as the shoulder, either roasted or stewed, with vegetables, but I have described a number of methods of dress- ing it in the Removes of the first department of this work. No. 31. Knuckle of Veal is a very favourite dish of mine; I procure two of them, which I saw into three pieces each, and put into a stewpan with a piece of streaked bacon two pounds in weight, four onions, a carrot, two turnips, and six peppercorns, place over the fire, and when boiling add a little salt, skim well, and place at the corner to simmer gently for two hours, take up, dress them in your dish surrounded with the vegetables and bacon] and serve with parsley and butter over ; very good soup may be made from the stock it was boiled in if required, or if not, into glaze, which put by until wanted. No. 32. Leg of Pork. Choose the pork as described at the commence- ment of this series, if a leg, one weighing about seven pounds, cut an incision in the knuckle near the thigh, into which put a quantity of sage and onions, previously passed in butter, sew the incision up with packthread, score the rind of the pork in Unes across, half an inch apart, place upon a spit, run- ning it in just under the rind, and bringing it out at the knuckJe. If stufied the day previous to roasting it would improve its flavour ; roast, if weighing seven pounds, about two hours and a half, and serve with apple sauce in a boat. I often roast a small leg of pork at home as directed above, and make apple sauce thus : peel and slice six nice apples, which put into a stewpan, with a tablespoonful of currants well washed and picked, and one of brown sugar, a httle of the rind of a lemon chopped very fine, six spoonfuls of water, and a very small piece of cinnamon, bod until in puree, then stir in a handful of bread-crumbs, and serve hot. When, however, I am in a great hurry I merely put apples, water, sugar, and a little rind of lemon. Other joints of pork are roasted in the same manner, but do not require stuffing, a loin weighing six pounds requiring two houi's and a quarter to roast; a neck of the same size will take about the same time, as wdl the spare-ribs, which is nothing but the necks of larger pork with the blade-bone cut out and the fat taken off. No. 33. Salt Pouk. Pork is salted in the same manner as described for beef, omitting the saltpetre, but of course not requiring so long a time; a leg weighing seven pounds would be well salted in a week, as also would a hand and spring w^eighing about ten pounds, and either would rcquu-e two