12 most interesting worl< of nrt in (Iie volume, is tin, plate at p. 294. which renresentH of ihe mturul size a mutton cutlet, u pork cutlet, and u lamb cutlet. ThTsTt-tCZte of r 5 lets we should say—ia incomparable ' ^ °' TK£ momrxn-G post. ihlr "'''^^ rf,"" ^!"'^ "^^^""^ y^"^' l'"**' "bout the enlightenment of the aire - -^y ^^'^^ -^-^.,^0 which the „in,nll'"'" ^'".f '"'T "'■'^ T'" in relation to the preparation of food than to almost any other mat er. At present, in the middle of the nineteenth century, the generality of people in England have only roast and boil, after a fashion; and the e the culinary acquirements of tlie multitude find their extreme limits. Other., there are, indeed, who take a higher flight; they afiect soups and gravies, and even aspire to pat vegetables on their tables ; but in all these cases nothing can be more inartificial than the system pursued. Hot water is the chief ingredient, and pepper the condiment. Thus, for soup;—fry two or tbree slices of coarse beel in plenty or fat, boil it in water, and saturate it with pepper and salt, and your tureen is provided for. Of mutton broth we are not so sure of the process : but the decoction bus all tlie appearance of being composed of the eternal hot water stirred with a tallow candle, to give the necessary number of globules of grease on the surface, and ornamented at the top with a few floating particles of parsley. A grkvy in more frequent use is exceedingly simple. When a leg of mutton is roasted, the person miscalled a cook pours a teacupful of water over the joint, and the gravy is complete. Vegetables are only required to retain as much as possible of the fetid water in which they are boiled, and to be sunk as deep in melted butter as a river bound collier is in the sea, and they are considered "a dainty dish to set before a king." Such are a few everyday examples of the English practice of cookery—principles it evi- dently has none. In France they order these things diflerently. During a succession of revolutions, extending over a space of nearly sixty years, constitutions have been abandoned as soon as adopted; kings and nobles have been murdered; but La Cuisine has ever been held inviolate, and chel's deserving of the name have not ceased to be venerated. And what is the result ?—that in France, where the raw material is, with the single exception of veal, perhaps, inferior to ours, a dinner can be produced worthy of Lucullus ; in England, save under the superintendence of French artists, such a feat is plainly impossible. Surely, then, it behoves us to do what we may for availing ourselves, in their fullest extent, of the advan- tages we have received from nature, not perhaps by going the somewhat extreme length that we have hetird suggested, of establishing professorships of gastronomy in our universities, on the broad ground that domestic is as well worthy of being encouraged as political economy, but by profiting, to the best of our abilities, under the instructions of those who really under- stand the art in which we are so lamentably deficient. So desirable an object has hitherto been baffled by the popular prejudice that good cookery is necessarily unwholesome. It is no such thing. An accomplished cook is an accomplished chemist; he knows the several affinities of substances for each other, and not only balances these with the utmost exactitude, but even prescribes, with the same view, the particular description of wine proper to each stage of his banquet. We all remember the celebrated answer of Careme to George IV^, whose cuisine he superintended while that sovereign was regent. " Careme,'' said the prince, *• your cookery will be the death of me ; see how I am suffering from indigestion." " Sire," replied the professor, " I am innocent of the charge ; it is my duty to provide you with a dinner, the discretion to use it properly must originate with your ro3al highness." So true is it that the evil lies in the abuse and not in the use of good things. Another objection to elaborate cookery is the expense it is supposed to involve. Both the points have been satisfactorily met in the work before us. The many receipts furnished by M. Soyer, and they amount to nearly two thousand, afford evidence at once of careful study and of extreme delicacy. Everything gross is excluded, and the more nutritious portions of food are alone preserved, in such forms as to please the eye and the palate, without embar- rassment to the digestive process. Neither of these objects is attained under the ordinary English system. Huge joints offend the sight, and half-raw meat tasks the organs of diges- tion beyond their power, by presenting to them masses of unbroken fibres. To save trouble to the stomach the fibre must be destroyed by the action of heat, and this can never be effected by exposing food to the fire during only half the time that is necessary. Then, as to the expense of superior cookery, M. Soyer has taken the best means of refuting the error by showing that much improvement may be made without addition to the cost. In one portion of his book he provides materials for the dinner of an emperor; in the other, entitled, " My Kitchen at Home," he enables the smallest private family, or even the solitary bachelor, to live well on small means.