REMARKS. XXVU FISH. For the last few years there has been quite an alteration in the seasons for these golden and silvery inhabitants of the deep. Except the Cod-fish, which come in September, and by strictness ot rule must disappear in March, the season for all other sea-fish becomes a puzzle ; but the method I foUow during the season is as follows: Crimped Gloucester is plentiful in June and part of July, but it may be procured almost all the year round. Common Salmon from March to July. Salmon Peale from June to July. Spey Trout from May to July. Sturgeon, though not thought much of, is very good in June. Turbot are in season all the year round. John Dories depend entirely upon chance, but may be procured all the year round for the epicure, May excepted. The original season of Yarmouth Mackerel is from the 12th of May till the end of July; now we have Christmas mackerel; then the west of England mackerel, which are good at the beginning of April, Haddock and Whiting aU. the year round. Skate aU the winter. Smelts from the Medway are the best, and are winter fish, the Yarmouth and Carlisle are good, but rather large ; the Dutch are also very large, which often lose in the estimation of the epicure. Brill is like turbot as to season. Slips are similar to soles, good all the year round. Gurnets are rather a spring fish. Flounders and Diamond Plaice, are in full season from June to July. Red MuUets vary very much now, but the beginning of the season was formerly the 12th of May; we had none this year except at a very extravagant price. I always use them when they are to be obtained. Fresh Herrings are in season from November to January. River Eels all the year round. Lobsters in the spring and part of the summer. Prawns ditto. Crabs are best in May, Oysters begin in August, but are not very good till September. Barrelled Oysters begin on the 15th of September, and last till the end of February. Barrelled Cod, Lent fish, are best in winter or about March. Sprats come in about the 8th of November. Crawfish is a very favorite dish of the greatest epicures of France and also of a few of the EngUsh; the author regrets that in fulfilment ot an agreement between himself and M. Sampayohe is restricted from giving the receipt of Crawfish a la Sampayo, which has appeared in his Bill of Fare, No 609. The reason of the enormous expense of this dish IS that two large bottles of trufi-es du Perigord, which do not cost less than four guineas, are stewed with them in champagne. VEGETABLES AND FRUIT. The seasons for these delicacies are the principal guide for the ™« ' '^'^ "^^'^"^'^^ ^'^^^^^ ^'^^^ at a great expense, they do not repay m flavour their exorbitant price