s did her the honour to subscribe for a print from her picture of the ' Young Israehtes,' which has since been dedicated, by permission, to his Serene Highness."* " The death of this lady'has been a source of great regret to all the lovers and encouragers of art. Cufolf at a moment when her reputation was about to make her fortune, and when, in spite of all obstacles, her merits were be- come known to her cotintrymen, it is a sad reflection that she can no longer enjoy the encomiums she so justly deserves, nor share in those rewards which M'cre about to be conferred on her. Besides an immense variety of drawings, sketches, and studies, she had painted upwards of 400 pictures, some of them ( f very high merit, and some of them which, when exhibited in the Louvre, obtained the highest meed of praise. No female artist has exceeded this lady as a colorist, and very few artists of the rougher sex have produced portraits so full of character, spu'it, and vigour, and that boldness and breadth of light and shadow which constitutes one of the highest triumphs of art. She was exceedingly clever in recognizing the character of those who sat to her, so that her portraits convey the mind as well as the features of the _sitters, their thoughts and sentiments. Her group, already mentioned, depicting Two Boys selling Lemons, has been recently engraved by Gerard of Paris, in mezzotint, and is a fine illustration of the talents of the deceased. It partakes of the style of Murillo ; but, though in his manner, it has not the subserviency of imitation, nor the stiffness of copy. There are a few of Madame Soyer's paintings at the Reform Club-house, which will well repay a visit from those who have a taste for genuine merit and real nature."—Times. The three following letters are selected from a numerous correspondence, as exhibiting at once sympathy for her loss, and admiration for her talents. " Gotha, le 4 Janvier, 1843. a monsieur alexis soyeh. " Monsieur, " Je vous suis tres oblige du dessin original fait du feue Madame votre epouse, ainsi que des gravures d'apres le tableau des jeunes Israelites, que vous avez bien voulu m'envoyer. " G'est avec beaucoup d'interet que j'adjoindrai k ma collection de dessins )es produits d'un talent aussi distingue que cehii de feue Madame Soyer. " En vous disant mes remercimens et en souhaitant que le temps adoucit votre grande et juste douleur sur sa perte prematuree, je vous assure encore de toute mon estime. ".Ernest Dug de Saxe-Gotha." " Cambridge House, le 21 Mai, 1846, "Monsieur, " Je suis charge de la part de S. A. R. Monseigneur le Due de Cambridge de vous remercier pour 1'envoi des trois tableaux, peints par feue Madame votre epouse, qui ont ete dftment admires et apprecies, non seulement par S>. A. R., le Due, mais aussi par Madame la Duchesse, ainsi que par ceux a qu il a 6te donue de les voir. " J'ai I'honneur d'etre, Monsieur, " Votre tres humble et obeissant serviteur, " Li; Baron de Knesebeck." * Geiitlemaji's Magazine.