PAGODATIClUE ENTREE DISH. 715 cc A1,1 wlmt is the use of those divisions, or compartments ?" * All £e e as Thave been informed by several celebrated travellers nmon^ wS your great diplomatist, Sir Henry Pott nger (to whom I had amongst wmcu you 5 introduced upon the occasion of his visit to the C& trie™ he 2 cSed wtt I had prerioudy heard fr„„ several SSoL mm—By the by. he haa honoured me by »«mg for a Srof them-here i. my album, aad see, there his autograph: —for four paeodatique ewfr^e dishes; this completes the service for the pre- sent but in a short time a complete service for first and second course can be easily manufactured at a reasonable price But to return to the subject. I was telhng you that those gentlemen had informed me that the Chmese have upon then- tables at their banquets, a profusion of fowls, and birds ot all kinds, served with sauce or gravy, a plate being placed before each guest, similar to the European fashion, surrounded by three or four smaU saucers, each containing different ingredients, spices and pickles, suited to the dish they partake of; each person takes a wing or fillet, that beingthe only part they consider eatable. They then cut it in small pieces, on their plates, and dip them into the different sauces, until they produce a favorite seasoning to their taste. It might not be to either yours or mine, but for all that, I do not blame them." . . " 'Pon my word, it is very curious and clever; by this mode your plate is free from incumbrance, a fault with which I always reproach our nation." " I have frequently heard of a ' Potage aux nids d'oiseau,' we call it in EngUsh, bird's-nest soup ; it is said to be of the most astonishing delicate substance." " I shall shortly have the pleasure of entertaining you upon that subject; we wiU now return to our new ' plat d'entree.' " Drawn by the frivolous fancy of fashion and folly of the times; why, I thought, should not I endeavour to make myself as ridiculous as any other person; I therefore submitted to the proprietor of a large china establish- ment a drawing, from which he executed with great taste this pagodatique table ornament. " The several advantages which it possesses are easily understood, one enfrSe may have four different sauces, four entries the varieties of sixteen, or of eight, by putting the sauce double, I mean two compartments fiUed with the same sauce, and preserve the entrSe as the Chinese do, au natwel. To add * To show plainly the interior of this dish, it has been dra\vn one size larger than it is in rcahty. These dishes are only to be had by applyuig to Mi'. Soyer, of the Reform Club, or at Mr. George Smith's, No. 57, Conduit Street, llegent Street, bemg the only mamifacturer.