068 KITCHEN AT SOME. potatoes, two bay-leaves, two cloves, and a pint of water, replace it upon a moderate fire, moving round occasionally, stew nearly three hours dress upon your dish with the carrots and onions dressed tastefidly around take ott as much of the fat from the gravy as possible (which will be a little thickened by the potatoes), take out the bay-leaves and pour the garniture round the mutton, which serve very hot. No. 114. Shoulder of Mutton, Savoyard's Method. Put a smaU shoulder of mutton in a deep saut^-pan or baking-dish, season with a little pepper and salt, cover over with thin sUces of fat bacon, then put in ten potatoes peeled and quartered, and the same quantity of apples, with half a pint of water, place in a moderate oven and bake for two hours, dress upon your dish, with the potatoes and apples round, skim all the fat from the gravy, which pour over and serve ; it requires a Uttle oil or butter over before baking. No. 115. Shoulder of Mutton a la Polonaise. As described (No.467) in the other department of this work. No. 116. Shoulder of Mutton, Proven9Ale Fashion. Roast a fine shoulder of mutton; whilst roasting mince ten large onions very fine, put them into a stewpan, with two tablespoonfuls of salad-oil, pass them ten minutes over a good fire, keeping it stirred, then add a tablespoonful of flour, stir well in, and a pmt of milk, season with a little pepper, salt, and sugar; when the onions are quite tender and the sauce rather thick stir in the yolks of two eggs and take it off" the fire; when the shoulder is done spread the onions over the top, egg over, cover with bread-crumbs, put in the oven ten minutes, and salamander a light brown colour, dress upon your dish, put the gravy from it in your stewpan, with a pat of butter, with which you have mixed a little flour, boil up, add a little scraped garlick, pour round the shoulder, which serve. The shoulder may also be dressed in the housewife's method, as directed for the leg. A little burnt sugar may be added. No. 117. Saddle OF Lamb, Berlin Fashion. Roast a small saddle of lamb an hour, keeping it rather pale; you have boiled eight or ten good potatoes, peel them, put in a stewpan, add two ounces of butter, a teaspoon- iul of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and a little grated nutmeg; mix aH. well together with a fork, add half a gill of milk and one egg, turn well with a wooden spoon, let it get cold, and roU them in long shape and size of plover's eggs, egg and bread-crumb twice, fry light-coloured in hot lard or fat; dress your saddle upon a dish, surround it with the potatoes, have half a pint of melted butter in a stewpan, place upon the fixe, and when upon the point of boiling stir in a quarter of a pound of maitre d'hotel butter (page 33) highly seasoned; when quite melted sauce round and serve with mint sauce likewise in a boat; for other variations see pages 197, 198, and following pages. Haunch, fore-quarter, or ribs, may he dressed the same. No. 118. Leg or Shoulder of Lamb vfith Peas. The leg or shoulder must be plain roasted, (seepage 645,) boil a quart of very young peas, which strain and put into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, half a tea-