700 KITCHEN AT HOME. must not be so much rubbed, as too strong a flavour might be objectionable • th s last receipt ,s only applicable to endive, every other salad S n« ? ' cabbage lettuce, is plainirdresscd as in the'fi'rC^rS'nr^ rToi ess To make a profitable family salad, a certain quantity of cold roast steM^ed or boiled mea (which you might have remaining) ol poultry St be in troduced in either of the above salads, having previously cut it fn^o sites you niay also introduce a couple of hard-boiled eggs, cut in rings, with si c'el of beet-root, cucumbers, ripe tomatas, or even cold potatoes, but then a httle more vinegar must be added; from such a salad i small family may In the summer months make an exceUent meal. ^ No 235. Jelly of various kinds of Fruits. Having but little time to make very bright jellies at home, I usually simply make them as directed m the tew foUowmg receipts—they are excellent and full of flavour : when in a hurry 1 generally use isinglass, but at other times boil three calf's feet or two cow heels, in a gaUon of water, and when weU done pass the liquor througJi a sieve into a basin, and clarify the next day, by taking off" every particle of fat, and putting it into a stewpan; place upon the fire, and when boiling add a pint of water with which you have whipped the whites of six eggs, mixing the juice of four lemons and two ounces of lump sugar ; keep whiskmg over the fire until upon the point of boihng, when take from the fire, place the cover upon the stewpan, with a httle live charcoal, or a few live cinders upon the top, let stand twenty minutes, when pour it tlu-ough a jelly bag, pouring that which first runs through in agam, until running quite clear, when all has passed through, pour it into a stevq^an, and'reduce it over a sharp - fire to about a quart, when put it by for use, instead of isinglass, where indicated. No. 236. Orange Jelly, The bountifol supply and cheapness of this delicious fruit will enable almost any person to partake of this excellent entremet. Procure ten middling-sized oranges and two lemons, take the rind from three of the oranges and one of the lemons, as thinly as possible, which put into a basin, put a sieve over, through which squeeze the juice of the oranges and lemons, then put half a pound of sugar in a stewpan over the fire with a pint of water, and let boil until becoming a very thick syrup, when take it oS, and add the juice and rind of the fruits, cover the stewpan for a few mo- ments, when again place it over the fire ; as soon as boiling commences skim well, and add two glasses of water by degrees, which will assist its clarifica- tion, let boil another minute, when add an ounce and a quarter of isinglass, dissolved as directed (page 592), pass the whole through a jelly bag or fine cloth, and add a few drops of prepared cochineal to give an orange tint; when fill a mould, which place in two or three pounds of ice until set quite firm and ready to serve, when dip the mould in hot water to the rim, wipe the exterior, turn over upon your dish, lifting the mould straight, but gently off from the jelly. As the sizes of the oranges very much fluctuate, and some produce more juice than others, it would be better to try a little jelly in a spoon upon ice, to ascertain if of the proper strength, before filling your mould. If handy, the same quantity or a little more of reduced calf's foot jelly as in the last may be used instead of isinglass.