KITCHEN AT HOME. 693 No. 209. Partridges a la Jardiniere. Have a plain rouud tin ci^^tte,, with which cut about forty pieces of carrot and turnip, each about the thick- ness of a quill, and half an inch in length, put them into a stewpaa with twenty button onions, two ounces of butter, and a teaspoonful of powdered su-ar • pass over a sharp fire until the vegetables become covered with a thm- nish glaze, when add a tablespoonful of flour (mix weU) and a pint of stock or gravv! let simmer until the vegetables are tender, keeping it weU skimmed. Roast two partridges rather underdone, which put into the sauce twenty minutes before serving, let simmer very gently, skim oflf all the fat, dress tlie birds upon a dish, pour the sauce and vegetables over, and serve. No. 210. Partridges with Cabbage. Proceed exactly as described for the pheasant, but using two bkds instead of one ; if convenient it would be a great improvement to lard the breasts of the birds with fat bacon. No. 211. Partridges Sauted with Mushrooms. Divide two par- tridges each into halves, beat them a little flattish, put two or three tablespoon- fuls of salad-oil into a flat stewpan, lay in the partridges, the inner side down- wards, first seasoning with a little pepper, salt, and chopped eschalots, place over a moderate fire, put a cover upon the stewpan, and let remain until of a light brown colour; remove the lid, turn the partridges over, and let remain until coloured the other side; then pour off a httle of the oil, add a table- spoonful of flour, turn round until well mixed, add a good glassful of sherry, half a pint of stock or water, and twenty small button mushrooms ; let sim- mer until the partridges are tender, and the sauce thick enough to adhere to them, having kept it well skimmed, season with a little pepper, salt, and sugar, if required, lay the partridges upon a dish, sauce over, and seiTe. The remains of partridges may be hashed or served in a plain salmi, pre- cisely as directed for pheasants. No. 212. Woodcocks, Downshire Fashion. Plain roast the wood- cocks as directed (page 407), catching theii" trails upon toast, upon which, when done, dress the birds upon a dish ; pour a thick melted butter (with which you have mixed the yolk of an egg and a little cream) over, sprinkle lightly with bread-crumbs, salamander a hght brown colour, and serve with a httle gravy round. No. 213. Woodcocks a la Chasseur. Roast two woodcocks rather underdone, catching the interior upon a large piece of toast; when done cut each one in four, and place in a stewpan, with the remainder of the interior, chopped small, add a little pepper and salt, a glass of sherry, a little chopped eschalots, parsley, the juice of half a lemon, and half a gill'of broth ; let sim- mer a few minutes, dish rather high upon the toast, sauce over, and serve. No. 214. Hashed Woodcocks. Should you have any remaining from a previous dinner, cut each one in four, or more pieces, chop all that remains in the interior, which mix with a small piece of butter, a spoonful of bread- crumbs, and a little chopped parsley, make six croutons in the shape of hearts from a piece of toasted bread, spread the above preparation upon each, and place a short time in the oven ; hash the pieces as directed for the phea- sant, dress in pyramid on a dish, with the croutons round, sauce over and serve.