697 KITCHEN AT HOME. gallon of water, iu which stand your pudding, having previously well wrapped it up in a cloth, and let boil continually for three hours now and then add- ing a little more water to keep up the quantity ; when done, untie the cloth from which take the basin, pass your knife carefully i^ound between the puddino- and the basin, and turn over upon a dish lifting the basin carefully, and YOU will have an exceUent pudding, not one drop of gravy escaping until you have duo- in your spoon, which will cause it to eat much more delicate than by breaking the pudding on purpose to fill the dish with gravy when going to table, particularly if soup and fish are served before, and the pud- ding is kept half an hour waiting, the top pieces would then eat very dry and indigestible, being deprived of their succiUence. At home I never carve such a pudding with a spoon, but lightly cut the crust with a knife, cutting along the top instead of down, and laying a piece of crust upon each plate, taking the meat and gravy from the centre with a spoon, thus leaving the bottom until the last, which, if any remains, is excellent cold.* The above may also be either steamed or baked, in which case it wdl not require to be tied in a cloth; to steam it, place a quart of water in a mid- dling-sized stewpan, and when boiling stand in your puddmg, cover the stew- pan down close, and draw it to the corner of the fire, replenishing occa- sionally with more water; the pudding will require the same time cooking, and is served as before. If baked, the time required in cooking would of course greatly depend upon the heat of your oven, but it would require about two hours baking in a moderate oven, which is the best adapted. The pudding, when baked, may be kept entirely to be eaten cold. Should the onion or bay-leaf be objection- able to some, they may of course be omitted; observe, that by shaking the pudding gently, previous to turning it out upon your dish, you will mix the gravy with the flour upon the meat, thus forming, when the pudding is cut, a thinnish sauce, without having a greasy appearance. This veiylong and minute receipt will probably surprise many, but by thus entering into it, I have given at least ten receipts in one, as I make aU other savoury puddings precisely the same ; the following sorts most fi-equently. I sometimes introduce one or two mutton kidneys in a steak pudding, which, although a very old custom, is nevertheless a very good one. Mutton pud- ding is also very excellent, especially if made from the meat cut from the chumps of the loins, and made similar to the beef-steak puddings, not, how- ever, requiring quite so long a time to boil. Short mutton cutlets, cut with- out showing the bones, with slices of raw potatoes between, also make very excellent puddings, as also do cutlets of lamb, but in either case requiring an hour less time to cook. I have also frequently made very good puddings from veal, rabbits, poultry, and game, all of which are very acceptable for a change. Venison pudding is also very beautiful. I consider it a pity so few people make any experiments in cookery, which, like other arts, is amost in- exhaustible. Some people who have partaken of some of these puddings, previous to their being sent to table, have said they were sure they would not be approved of; but to my great satisfaction they have been totally deceived. For the veal pudding I cut slices (from any part of the leg) about the same * It would bo very easy to ascertain wlieu done, by riumiii£^ a packiug-nepdlc or sharp-pointed knii'& t'lirough, if tender it is done; this remark also applies to any de- scription of meat pies.