707 KITCHEN AT HOME. cover the fruit, and a quarter of an inch in thickness, wet the band of paste upon your dish, and lay the cover over, in which prick a hole m each side between the fruit and the edge of the dish, forming a weU all round, and closing the paste weU at the edges, trim round with a knife, with which also decorate the edges, wet the top well with white of egg beat to a light trotii, over which sprinkle two ounces of finely-powdered sugar, sprinkle with water until the sugar is well dissolved (but not to run off), place in a moderate oven, and bake about an hour, keeping it a very light brown colour, serve when cold. No. 262. Greengage Tart. Procure a sufficient number of ripe green- gages, which put into your dish whole, giving them the form of a dome at the top, and if about two dozen covering them with six ounces of powdered sugar; cover with paste, and proceed exactly as described in the last. Any description of plum tart is made precisely in the same manner, as also are gooseberry, cherry, currant and raspbeny, cranberry, &c., and aU requiring about the same time and same description of oven. No. 263. Apple Tart. Peel and cut about two dozen russet apples in slices, which put into your dish, interspersing them with some lemon peel (free from pith) cut into strips, about six cloves, and a little grated nutmeg ; build the apples up in a dome to the centre of your dish, and cover over with half a pound of powdered sugar, then have ready half a pound of puff-paste made as directed (page 479), with which make a band a quarter of an inch in thickness, laying it round the rim of the dish, roU out the remainder of the paste to the tliickness of a quarter of an inch, and large enough to cover the fruit, wet the band of paste upon the dish with a little water, lay the cover gently over, pricking a hole with your knife at the top to let out the air, closing it gently at the edges, which trim neatly with a knife ; egg the top over with a paste brush, and place in a moderate oven to bake, which will take about an hour; just before taking from the oven sift a little sugar over, and let remain until melted, forming a nice glaze over the tart, which may be served either hot or cold. Brown sugar may be used for any of the above tarts if approved of, but I have given directions for the white, considering that the brown, although commonly used, frequently destroys the delicious flavour of some descriptions of fruit. The salamander may be used to brown it. No. 264. French Fruit Tart. Make half a pound of paste as directed (No. 1136, page 481), mould it into a round ball upon your marble slab, and roll to a round sheet a quarter of an inch in thickness, wet round the rims, turning the edge over to form a border half an inch in depth, which press up with your finger and thumb to about an inch in height, have ready about twenty greengages, or any other description of plums, split each one into two, and place them in the interior of your tart, shake some sugar over, and bake about half an hour in a hot oven; serve cold, shaking more sugar over at the time of serving. They may also be made with apricots, peaches, cherries, currants, raspberries, cranbemes or gooseberries, in the same manner; but if made of apples, the fruit must be previously boiled to a marmalade, or stewed in a stewpau with sugar and a small piece of butter until tender, pre- vious to putting them in the crust; fruit baked in these tarts is also very ex- cellent meringued as directed (No. 267) ; plain whipped cream with a little sugar IS very good for a change.