19 volence we have always regarded as a good sauce, and have often observed it lo be an excellent dessert. The man who tucks his napkin under hia chin immediately after con- ferring a benefit on a fellow-creature, invariably manifests marvellous capabilities for di- gestion; and, on the other hand, the man who has dined to his own entire satisfaction, if solicited in the nick of time, will frequently evince an open-handed generosity, to which his more matutine emotions would have been strangers. But—to reverse the picture—any interruption to the near prospect of a " copious dinner" is at all times inimical to charity; while repletion, we know, occasionally reveals such unamiable dispositions as could not have been detected by the most jealous scrutiny at an earlier period of the day. Nations are but hives of individuals. We understand, therefore, the noble lord to mean, that all the history of all the thousand races of the globe concurrently teaches us that every great event, social or political, domestic or foreign, involving their national weal or woe, has been harbingered or commemorated by a " copious dinner." Many familiar instances of this profound truth— some of very recent date—crowd into our recollection. But we cannot lielp suspecting a deeper meaning to be inherent in the enunciation of this "great fact." Copious dinners are, as it strikes us, here covertly represented as the means of ell'ecting the most extensive ameliorations. To dine is insinuated to be the first step on the highway to improvement. In the consequences which flow from dining copiously, what is beneficial is evidently stated to preponderate over what is hurtful, the qualilying " sometimes''being only attached to the hitler. In this respect, dinners seem to ditter from men, that the evil is more frequently " interred with their bones," while the'" good they do lives after them." This is, assuredly, ringing a dinner-bell incessantly to the whole universe. We have ourselves, not half an hour ago, paid our quota for participating within the last week in congratulatory festivities to two eminent public characters. The overwhelming recurrence, in trutli, of these enter- tainments, drains us annually of a handsome income; and, reading as we do daily in the newspapers, how every grocer, on changing his shop round the corner, and every professor of dancing, on being driven by the surges of the Utilitarian system up another flight of stairs, must, to felicitate or soothe him, receive the tribute or consolation of a banquet and demon- stration, we hold up our hands in amazement at the opulence and deglutition of Scotland. What shall become of us, driven further onwards still, by the impetus of the ' Gastronomic Regenerator,'we dare not fortell. The whole year may be a circle of public feasts; and our institutions gradually, although with no small velocity, relapse into (he common table of Sparta. But never, whispers Soyer, into the black broth of Lycurgns. And so he en- snares us into the recognition of another fundamental principle, that the simplicity of Laconian fare might be admirably appropriate for infant republics and penniless helots, but can afford no subsistence to an overgrown empire, and the possessors of the wealth of the world ! Thus cookery marks, dates, and authenticates the refinement of mankind. The Cheops who watched, with an imperial dilatation of his brow, the aspiring immortalitv of the pyramids. Both in acting so diiierently, are the slaves and the types of the circumstances ol their position. The functions in the frames of both are the same • but these functions curiously follow the discipline of the social situation which directs and regulates thei de- i? • °^ °"'y - counterpart, in its simplicity or compll cat.on. Its rudeness or luxury, of the economy of the state. The subjects of patriarchs ind despots may eat uncooked horses with relish and nourishment. The denizens of a polit3 s s em whose every motion is regulated by an intricate machineiy, in which he S of afl he myriad wheels in motion are indented with inextricable multiplicity " confusion in^o each other, perish under any nurture which is not as intricate pnm.Lv « ? , confused. What a noble and comprehensive science is thirJL' tlonomyf ' 'Are you not also," says the philosophic Soyer, in the same interestino-dialoe-,,p w „f opinion with me, my lord, that nothing better disposes the mind of ma fto ami y K and deed, than a dinner which has been knowingly .elected, and artist cany Sed"'r ^^ answer is most pregnant, " It is my thinking so," replies Lord M H ' wh.Vh .? " , made me say that a good cook is asLefnl as'a wise liin'ten'' B;h"ord tothal SnVltS nil cose we are carried I The loaves and fishes in the hands of the Whia"\Z 'iZ.. i r u r Club to dress them I Let us banish melancholy, and dJhe awa^'d f Th ", 'n '° propensities of a foreign secretary are happily in^ocuo s T^ie rui onr/nf „ . " like the idle wind which we regard not. Protocols and trea ies noTe, nH . are henceforth disowned by diplomacy. The figure of Bd nnir vifh" ''^''''"''^f^''' " Surveys mankind from China to Peru ;"