702 KITCHEN AT HOME. Jelly made m either of the above methods may be flavoured with any other liquors (the quantity used depending principally upon taste), as also with rum, brandy, or whiskey, which last are more fit for a party of gentlemen. No. 242. Syrup of Almond Iced, a la Varsovienne, a substi- TUTE FOR Blancmange. Almost every ordinary cook is acquainted with the old method of making a blancmange, and the tediousness of its fabrication ■ so at home I make the foUowing substitute : blanch and pound in a mortar tour ounces of sweet and one ounce of bitter almonds, boil three quarters of a pound of sugar to a thickish syrup, put in the almonds, let infuse twenty minutes, then pass it through a tammie, add sufficient dissolved isinglass or calf's foot jelly to set it, with a glass of brandy or rum, place the above pre- paration in a bowl upon some ice, keeping it stirred until upon the point of setting, when stir in a pint of cream previously well whipped, and pom- it into a mould, let remain upon ice until ready to serve, when dip into luke- warm water and turn out upon your dish. The flavour of any kind of fruit may be used instead. No. 243. Pineapple Cream is what I now frequently make in the sum- mer months, using the West Indian pineapples, which may be procured remarkably cheap. Peel a small one and put the rind into a stewpan, with six ounces of sugar, and two wineglassfuls of water ; let boil until reduced to a very thick syrup, when pass it through a sieve into a basin, cut the remainder of the pine into very small strips, which put into the basin with the spup, have ready boiling half a pint of milk, in which you have dissolved rather more than an ounce of isinglass, in another stewpan have the yolks of five eggs, over which pour the nidk, mix well, and stir over the fire until it becomes a little thickish, but not boiling, when pass it through a sieve over the syrup, mix well together, place in a bowl upon some ice, keep stii-ring until upon the point of setting, when add three parts of a pint of cream, previously whipped, stir well in, fill your mould, which leave upon the ice until ready to serve, when turn it out as in the last. No. 244. Prussian Cream. Put an ounce and a half of isinglass, pre- viously dissolved, into a bowl, melt it, and add six glasses of any Uquor, and two of brandy, with six ounces of powdered sugar, let well dissolve, place the bowl upon some ice, keeping its contents stirred until upon the point of setting, when add three parts of a pint of whipped cream; fill your mould, and proceed as before. BOHEMIAN JELLY CREAMS. No. 245. Strawberry. Pick and pass through a fine sieve a pottle of very fresh strawberries, to which add the juice of a lemon, six ounces of powdered sugar, and an ounce and a half of dissolved isinglass (or suffi- cient calf's foot jelly to set it), put the above ingredients into a bowl, which set upon ice, keeping its contents stirred until upon the point of setting, when stir in three parts of a pint of cream, previously whipped; fill your mould, and proceed as before. For cherries, raspberries, and currants, proceed as for strawberries, but for apricots, peaches, apples, pears, quinces, &c., proceed as follows. No. 246. Apricot Bohemian Cream. Stone and cut into slices ten