548 REMOVES. ■ is always vaiied in flavour by the different kinds of fruits , and ices with which they are filled. The introduction of atelettes of fruit in the Removes as well as in the jelHes, is also quite a new idea, and renders the appearance of both very novel as well as very handsome. No. 1298. Gateau Britannique a VAmiral. Make a sponge-cake of tAventy eggs as directed (No. 1369), have a tin mould in the shape of a vessel, which paper well at the sides, to prevent the mixture running over whilst baking (the mould requu-es to be eighteen inches in length, six in breadth, and high in proportion); butter and lightly flour the interior of the mould, into which pom- the mixtm^e, which bake an hour and a half in a moderate oven (this cake requires to be baked a day or two before using); mask the exterior with chocolate iceing (No. 1383) to imitate the coloiu of a ship, when quite dry partly empty the interior,* leaving a piece across in the centre, to fix the mast upon, which you have made of pate d'office (No. 1137), as also the ladders, rigging, and gmis, by roUing pieces of the paste to the thickness requu'ed mth the hands, cutting them to the lengths required, and baking them a light colom- in a moderate oven; mask the guns with chocolate iceing, made rather darker than for the cake, and form the muz- zles mth small rings of puff paste, place them judiciously at the sides, as also the mast and rigging at their respec- tive places (see design), place the vessel upon a dish, lay- ing rather upon one side, lay roUs of gelee a la bacchante * In emptying the interior of this or any of the following cakes for removes, care should be taken not to leave them either too thick or too thin; if too tliick it would not hold sufQcient ice, and eat very heavy, if the reverse it would be too delicate, and not hold together in dishing up. About three quarters of an inch in most cases would be the thickness required. Any of the Removes may be curtailed in pouit of size, but the above would be sufScient for a dinner of eighteen persons. -