G98 KITCHEN AT HOME. sue as the beef for steak puddings, and put them into a sautd-pan, over the bottom of which I have rubbed an ounce of butter, seasoning them with a little pepper and salt, addmg a little thyme, and a couple of bay-leaves ; about half cook and leave them in the pan until quite cold, then dip each piece in flour, lay them in the basin with a few slices of streaked bacon, finish the pudchng and boil It two hours. For young rabbits and fowls I proceed the sime, and cook the pudding the same time; but to the two last I frequently add a spoon- ful of currie-powder to make it palatable. For venison, I previously stew it well, except I have left the remainder of a haunch, which I convert into a hash making the pudding of it when quite cold; this pudding wiU require very httie more than an hour boiUng. I frequently also make puddings of various kinds of fish, of which one made from the fillets of mackarel is very excellent, the fillets cut into good shces, rather highly seasoned, and laid lightly in the pudding ; itwiU require an hour and a half boihng, and must be eaten very hot to be well appre- ciated. Eels also make a good pudding, by cutting them into pieces an inch and a half in length slantwise, and blanching them ten minutes in boiling water, to extract the oil, previous to putting them in your pudding, before making which dip each piece of eel in flour. SECOND COURSE, KITCHEN AT HOME. For the roasts, second course, in my Kitchen at Home, I must refer my readers to that series in the other department of this work, as it is impos- sible to explain them more simply; so also for the various methods of di-ess- ing vegetables (there so fuUy explained), from the most expensive to the most simple; and, to avoid repetition, pass over those two series in the second course, and commence a short series of simplified second-course dishes, with a few plain salads. No. 230. Salad of Cold Meat. This salad in France is very much in vogue, and very frequently made with the remains of meat from the pot-au- feu, but any meat, either roasted, boiled, or stewed, may be used. Cut your meat in sHces (with a httle of the fat) about the size of half-a- crown, place them upon a dish, with three eschalots chopped very finely, a spoonful of chopped parsley, one of chopped tarragon and chervil, and a httle salt and pepper, pour six tablespoonfuls of salad-oil and two of vinegar over, toss well together without breaking the meat, and serve either in a salad-bowl or upon another dish; the above proportion is for a pound of meat. Another method is to have as many sUces of cold potatoes as of meat, cut the same size, and after well seasoning the whole, dress them alternately round the dish, one resting upon the other; mix two spoonfuls of oil with one of vinegar, which pour over and serve. Spring onions, slices of beet- root, and radishes, may also be introduced. The remains of poultry may also be dressed in a similar manner. No. 231. Lobster Salad. Break up a lobster, obtaining as much of the flesh as possible, which cut into slices, have likewise two hard-boiled eggs also in slices, two anchovies filleted, and two cabbage lettuces, or any other salad cut up small; mix the whole well together with a fork in a basin, season with half a teaspoouful of chopped eschalots, one of chopped parsley, one of