KITCHEN AT HOME. G75 into the corner of a clean cloth, which rince in water to wash them, squeeze quite dry in the cloth, they will be then as white as possible, and quite ready for use. Eschalots are chopped in the same manner, cutting first into small dice, without cutting them in halves. For parsley or herbs, previously wash very clean, take the stalks in your left hand (when quite dry), pressing upon the leaves with your fingers, hold- ing the knife with your right liand, cutting as fine as possible ; chop as di- rected for the onions. By following the above directions you wiU be enabled to chop them very fine, scarcely staining the board; the above directions to some may appear superfluous, but the difiference made in the flavour of sauces, by their being well or badly chopped, being so great, caused nie to make the above observations. No. 146. To MAKE A Colouring or Browning from Sugar. Put two ounces of white powdered sugar into a middling-sized stewpan which place over a slow fire, when beginning to melt, stir round with a wooden spoon until getting quite black, when set it in a moderate oven upon a trivet about twenty minutes, pour a pint of cold water over, let dissolve, place in a bottle, and use wherever directed in my Kitchen at Home. ECONOMICAL MADE DISHES. No. J47. Fillet of Beef or a small rump steak is very excellent dressed in the following new way : Procure a piece of fillet of beef, weighing from three to four pounds, which can be purchased in any butcher's shop, being the under part of the rump; trim it a little, taking off part of the skin, leaving a piece of fat half an inch in thickness upon each side, cut it crosswise in slices a quarter of an inch in thickness, making about six pieces, beat lightly, giving them a roundish shape ; place them upon a gridiron over a sharp'fire, season whilst broiling with about a saltspoonful of salt, and the half of one of black pep- per, turn them once or twice whilst upon the gridiron, which process will keep the gravy in, and when done dress them immediately upon a dish, in which you have put the following simple but excellent sauce, which I usually make over an ordinary fire: put the yolks of four eggs in a stewpan or iron saucepan, with half a pound of fresh butter (rather firm) cut into shces, half a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, the juice of half a lemon, and half a tablespoonful of chopped parsley; set upon a slow fire keep stirring quickly with a wooden spoon in every direction, until becoming rather thick, when remove it from the fire half a minute, stiU stirring, then again upon the fire, sturring until the butter is quite melted, but congealed with the yolks of eggs, forming a smooth thickish sauce; should it, however be too thick, add a little milk or cream, and if requiring more seasoning add a httle pepper and salt, with the juice of the other half lemon: proceed the same for rump steak, but if for a comer dish, the fillet would be prefer- able as the steak would be too large, appearing clumsy. The above quantity would be sufficient for a party of ten, but a much smaller quantity niight be A great improvement would be to have four or five middling-sized po- tatoes, peeled, cut m quarters lengthwise, and afterwards into thin slices crosswise; liave ready upon the fire a stewpan, containing lard or dripjing