KITCHEN AT HOME. 678 No. 154 Hashed Beef is made from any description of roast beef, it may a so be made from stewed, but roast is preferable; cut about a pound and a halt of meat into thm slices, using a small quantity of tbe fat • lay them upon a dish, sprinkle a spoonful of flour, a teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter ditto of pepper, place the meat in a stewpan, moisten with half a pint of water or light broth, if handy; add a little colouring (No. 146) to give a nice brown colour, place it upon the fire, allowing it to warm gently, stirring oc- casionally, simmering a quarter of an hour, taste if requiring more seasoning, if so add a httle and serve very hot immediately. In making a hash of any description, avoid having to keep it hot as much as possible, or it wovdd be- come greasy, and hkewise prevent the hash boiling over the fire, which would cause the meat to eat hard and tough. If the beef has been well roasted, as described (page 639), the remainder being underdone, makes an excellent and very nutritious hash. To vary any description of hash, it may be served upon a large piece of buttered toast, or half a spoonful of chopped onions may be added with the flour and seasoning; chopped parsley may also be added with a spoonful of catsup, two of Harvey sauce, two of vinegar, or one of chih vinegar, four nice green gherkins in slices may also be added at the time of serving. Some fresh mushrooms from the fields, cleaned, and stewed in the hash, is also a great improvement, a bay-leaf also added imparts a pleasant flavour. A little meat left upon the bones, well peppered and broiled, are frequently served with the hash. No. 155. Remains of Salt Beef, although very good cold, in winter is very desirable made hot; one of the best methods of doing which is to con- vert it into that old fashioned dish entitled bubble and squeak; the beef should be, as usual, rather underdone, and cut into slices not thicker than a five- shilling-piece, then put two ounces of butter in a saute or frying-pan, when melted lay in the beef, which place over a quick fire, frying both sides of a yellowish brown colour, when take them out upon a dish, keeping them hot; you have previously boiled six or eight greens or one Savoy cabbage, which chop fine, season with four saltspoonfuls of salt and one of black pejiper, place in the same pan you fried the beef in over the fire, keep turning them over until quite hot, when dress upon a dish with the beef over, and serve. A few shoes of fat ought to be fried with the beef. Another way of warming salt beef, is to cut sUces and lay in a pan with just sufiicient water to cover them ; place over the fire,'add about an ounce of fresh butter mixed with a little flour, a httle Harvey sauce, and a piece of glaze about the size of a walnut, if handy. Another way would be to lay the slices in a saute or frying-pan well buttered, place over the fire and fry a light brown colour, pour off" as much of the fat as possible, add a quarter of a pint of water, and a piece of butter the size of a walnut, with which you have mixed half a teaspoonful of flour, shake round over the fire a minute or two, add two spoonfuls. of piccalilly cut in slices, two ditto of the liquor, and one of the colouring (No. 146), and serve over when ready. No. 156. Ox Tails en Currie. Have ready some ox tails dressed as described in page 273, (they will keep several days in a basin covered with their own stock), when wanted warm them in their stock, cut four onions into very thin slices, put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, fry over a slow fire until the onions become brown and pulpy, when