xix NEW MODE OF CARVING. the loin at the same time as the thickest part, from C C to D D, and give to each guest a slice from each part, by which you will quickly perceive that you have fairly cut the meat, and that each person will have had his proper quantity of fat, and from first to last each shce will be very inviting; serve on very hot plates of silver if possible. Every amateur of venison knows, that without its due quantity of fat it is hardly eatable ; I would therefore advise those who still wish to carve haunches on the old system, to calculate how many -plates they have to carve for, otherwise they are sure to be misled, if they do not take the trouble to ascertain the number who are to be helped. My new system possesses an advantage, which is, that if six or eight persons only partake of a haunch, the remains of it are in a fine state, and fit to be cut into large slices for another dinner, by merely putting a few spoonfuls of gravy with the slices into a sautepan, over a sharp fire for three minutes; turn them carefully, season with little salt, a teaspoonful of currant jelly, turn the slices two or three times over until the jeUy is dissolved, serve on a very hot dish, but be careful not to let the slices boil in the pan, or else they will become very tough. If any remain, make a hash as No. 784, or pie. No. 785. AKOTHEK SUCCESSFUL WAY. When I am called to carve a haunch of venison for eighteen or twenty I proceed as follows: I take off the fiat bone, previous to roasting, at the back of the loin, and pass the knife from the knuckle all along the lower part of the flap, which is left about two inches wide; I then begin to cut in a slanting direction, as the drawing represents, from the beginning of the loin, through the leg as far as the knuckle, without reserving a well for gravy, and in fact 1 have found it to be better, as every slice you cut through the leg produces its own gravy boiling hot, which unavoidably gets colcJ in the well formed the other way of carving. Do not omit to save some fat for the next day, as your hash or pie would be insipid. Haunch of mutton or lamb may be carved either way. For necks of venison, pass your knife across the lower part of the ribs, about four inches below the thickest part, then cut elices in a slanting direction, not interfering with the bone, as I have previously explained. For shoulders, see Shoulder of Mutton, page 645. SADDLEBACK OF VENISON. I Having made a trial with Mr. Grove of Charing Cross of cutting a buck to produce a saddleback of venison, as I have done of mutton (page 644), we succeeded remarkably well, and obtained a most splendid joint that ever could be placed before an epicure; but it cannot be generally adopted, except in the country, where gentlemen