2 vote her time entirely to tlio education of her child, who showed great incli- nation for study. The usual instructions were received with success, the French and Italian languages soon acquired, and music became a favorite amusexnent; in fact, it appeared that whatever was undertaken was of easy accomphshment. *' "About the year 1817, M. Simonau, a Flemish artist, pupil of the cele- brated Baron Gros, visited London, and brought with him some of his works, which were purchased by an antiquary, who advised him to open an academy for drawing and painting, which he did, and in a short time gained gi-eat celebrity. Mrs. Jones having heard of the fame of M. Simonau, went to him with her little girl, and wished him to give her lessons ; the extreme youth of the child at first made him hesitate, but at length he consented, and when Emma had been with him about six months, she showed such decided talent, that her mother proposed to remunerate him for the loss of all his other pupils if he would give his whole time to her daughter's instruction ; to this, after some consideration, he agreed, and every succeeding year her improvement was so great, that before the age of twelve she had drawn more than a hundred portraits from life with surprising fidehty. " During the same time she advanced wonderfully in music, under the eminent pianist, Ancot, who, at that time, was patronized by her Royal High- ness the Duchess of Kent, and was a great friend of Rossini and Weber—the last of these heard little Emma play a passage of his ' Der Freischutz' with so much execution, that he declared, in the most flattering terms, that she would become a brilliant star in the musical world. M. Ancot strongly recom- mended that she should adopt music as a profession ; and, as her mother feared that drawing would injure her health, his opinion was for some time adopted. Through the following circumstances, however, painting was fiuaUy chosen instead of music. Mrs. Jones (who, in 1820, had become the wife of M. Simonau) having gone to the continent for her health, young Emma one day looking out of a window at Dunkirk, saw some children blowing bub- bles, and immediately, with a piece of charcoal, made a sketch of the group upon the wall : the execution of this rude drawing evinced so much power, that it was at once finally decided by her mother and M. Simonau to adhere to the original intention of making painting her principal study, and that music should only be cultivated as an accomplishment. A few years after a picture from this sketch was sold at Liverpool for sixty pounds. " At an early age many original paintings and portraits bore ample testimony to the perseverance of the mother, the care of the master, and the genius of the young artist. " In 1836, MissEmma Jones was married to M. Soyer at St. George's church, Hanover square. " In 1839, tlie poor mother died, happy that her daughter had attained emi- nence by her talents, and enjoyed prosperity with the husband of her choice. But, alas ! the happiness of nearly six years was destroyed in a few hours ; Madame Soyer was taken in premature labour, and died on the same day, regretted by all who knew her. She was of a most amiable and cheerful dis- position, a kind friend, excellent and affectionate wife, too modest to set much value upon her works, leaving the palette to attend to her household duties. " The acuteness of her husband's feelings was painfidly increased by hie un- fortunate absence, being at Brussels at the time with the suite of the Duke of Saxe Cobourg-Gotha, who had seenM, Soyer in his culinary department at the Reform Club, and having greatly admired several of Madame Soyer's pictures,