C88 KITCIIHN AT HOME. No 184. BouDiNS ofTurkk^. Cutup aU the flesh remaining upon atur- key mto small dice, if about a pound and a half, put a teaspoonful of chon- ped onions mto a stewpan, with a piece of butter of the size of two walnuts pass a few seconds over the fire, then add half a tablespoonful of flour fmi^ well) and the mmce, which moisten with a pint of stock made from the bones as in the last, simmer some time, keeping it moved, season with a little pepper salt, and sugar, finish with the yolks of three eggs, which stir in quicklv over the fire, not allowing it to boil aftei-wards, pour out upon a dish untU cold; just before ready to serve, divide it into equal parts, which roU out each to about the size of small eggs, shaping them to fancy, egg and bread-crumb twice over, fry m very hot lard or dripping of a light brown colour, and serve. A little ham or tongue (should you have any left) cut small, and nuxed with the mince would be a great improvement. No. 185. Turban of Croquettes. Croquettes are made precisely as the last, but not more than half the size, when done, dress them in crown upon a border of mashed potatoes, and have ready some of the blanquette of turkey, which serve in the centre. No. 186. Minced AND Grilled Turkey. Detach the leg, wing, or take ofi" the best part of the turkey remaining, which season well with pepper and salt, and broil over a good fire, have ready prepared a mince from the remaining flesh of the turkey, made as directed for the boudins, but omitting the yolks of eggs ; when quite hot and well seasoned pour into your dish, and dress the broiled piece upon it. No. 187. Devilled Turkey. Cut up the remains of your turkey into good-sized pieces or joints if sufiicient, cut incisions crosswise upon each piece, and well rub them with cayenne pepper, broil quickly over a sharp fire, dress them in your dish, and have ready the following sauce: put a table- spoonful of chopped eschalots in a stewpan with a wineglassful of chili vinegar, reduce to half, add half a pint of thin melted butter, two table- spoonfuls of catsup, and two of Worcestershire sauce, boil about a quarter of an hour, stir in two ounces of fresh butter, pour over and serve. Many persons like the above best dry, so it would be as well to serve the sauce separate in a boat, or a little plain gravy only underneath. The remains of poulardes, capons, or fowls may be dressed precisely as directed for the tui-key. No. 188. Goose Hashed. The remains of a goose is fit only for hashing, or devilling, for which proceed as last directed; when for hashing put a spoon- ful of chopped onions into a stewpan, with an ounce of butter, pass over the fire until becoming rather brown, when add a tablespoonful of flour, mix well, cut up the remains of a goose into moderate-sized pieces, season with pepper and salt, add about a pint of stock or water, let simmer ten minutes, when pour out upon a dish and serve. For a variation, a httle sage and a couple of apples shced and cooked in the sauce is very good. No. 189. Stewed Duck and Peas. Procure a duck trussed with the legs turned inside, which put into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter and a quarter of a pound of streaked bacon, let remain over a fire, stirring occa- sionally until lightly browned, when add a good tablespoonful of flour (mix well) and a pint of broth or water, stir round gently until boiling, when skim.