684 KITCHEN AT HOME. Dressed as above they may likewise be served with a maitre d'h6tel sauce made thus : put half a pint of melted butter into a stewpan with a piece of gkze the size of a walnut, when boiling add two ounces of maitre d'hotel butter (see p. 33), shake the stewpan round over the fire; when quite hot pour in the dish with the cutlets, have ready some thin shces of potatoes tried as for the Met of beef, dress in pyramid in the centre, and serve. No. 171. Mutton Cutlets Harricoed. Cut ten cutlets from a neck of mutton, leaving them rather short, not beating them flat, and taking off some of the fat; put two ounces of butter in a stewpan, lay in the cutlets, which well season with pepper and salt; set upon a moderate fire, turning them round occasionally until of lightish brown colour, then add a good spoonful of flour; mix well, and moisten with a quart of water, keep stirring until boiling,' throw in twenty small onions, twenty small pieces of carrots, and the same of turnips (each about the size of walnuts), and a small bunch of parsley, with two bay-leaves; let simmer until the vegetables are done, skim well^ take out the cutlets, which dress in crown upon a dish, place the vegetables in the centre, reduce the sauce if required, which pour over and serve. Should it be convenient, it would be as well to pass the vegetables by putting about a quarter of an ounce of powdered sugar into a stewpan ; place over the fire, and when melted add two ounces of butter and the vege- table, which keep tossing over the fire until covered with a kind of glaze, when put them into the stewpan with the cutlets; it gives the harrico quite a peculiar and good flavour. No. 172. Ragout OF Mutton en currie. Peel and slice four large onions, which put into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, place over a moderate fire, and when becoming lightly browned and pulpy lay in ten cutlets as in the last; move round occasionally until a little brown, when add a good spoonful of currie-powder and the half of one of flour; mix well, moisten with a pint of water, let simmer twenty minutes, or until the mutton is quite tender, finish with a little sugar, salt, and lemon juice, take out the cutlets, which dress in circle upon a dish, have ready some boiled rice (p. 51) very hot, which dress in pyramid in the centre; pass the sauce through a tammie, pour over the cutlets, and serve. No, 173. Mutton Currie. Peel and slice four large onions as in the last, fry the same, have ready two pounds of lean mutton cut into square pieces the size of walnuts, put into the stewpan with the fried onions; let remain ten minutes over the fire, stirring frequently, then add a tablespoou- ful of currie-powder and one of currie-paste; mix well in, let remain over a slow fire until the mutton is tender, season with a little salt and lemon-juice, pour out upon your dish, and serve with boiled rice separate. Lamb cutlets are dressed precisely as the mutton; but when bread-crumbed and broiled they are very good served with peas or French beans, previously boiled and placed in a stewpan with an ounce of fresh butter, a Mttle pepper, salt, and sugar; when quite hot stir in half a gill of cream, with which you have well mixed the yolk of an egg, stir in quickly, pour out upon your dish, dress the cutlet over, and serve. No. 174. Pork Cutlets sautes. Cut six or eight good-sized cutlets from the neck, of the same shape as the mutton, lay them in a buttered