631 THE REFORM CLUB. ratively smaU expense; a boiler is at the back, which holds one hundred eallons of water always hot, and amply sufficient for aU kitchen purposes; the salamander is also easily and quickly heated at the same fire without in- CHAECOAl STOVE AND HOT PLATE. terfering with the roasts, having a place formed in the front of the grate pur- posely for its reception. In front of the roasting fire-place is a closet-screen, six feet wide, two feet deep, and six feet high, to keep all joints very warm. The plan of this screen differs from the common ones ; the back, fronting the fire, is covered with iron sheeting; the front shuts in with sliding doors, forming two sepa- rate closets, the top being only sixteen inches high, and the lower four feet high, with two iron grated shelves; the doors being kept shut, there is always a regular heat. "What renders this screen a perfect desideratum, are the two folding leaves at each end, fastened with hinges and completely in- closing the fire, thereby preventing the smoke escaping, and also the heat from bemg felt even close to the screen ; and the advantage of the whole is, that notwithstanding the immense fire, presenting a surface of fifteen feet square, no inconvenience results from it. (See Cut, page 622). Lower down is a large cast-iron oven for pastry, six feet nine inches high, four feet nine inches wide, divided into two parts, one above the other, each ot two feet opening, one foot nine inches high, and two feet six inches deep, with grated shelves. Joining the oven there is a French stove, three feet two inches long and two feet four inches wide, with one grating, to boil dehcate vegetables. Above, m the thickness of the waU, is a cistern two feet long, two feet tour inches deep, and one foot wide, to k«ep the large boiler behind the roasting lire-grate constantly supplied with water. Opposite 18 a sash window, by which roasts and vegetables for the coffee- room are handed to the waiters ; beneath the window is a closet for plates and