KITCHEN AT HOME. 655 with a couple of burnt onions, and serving with a glass of port wine in it, or two of sherry, omitting the cream. No 43 MuLLAGATAWNEY Soup. Cut up a knuclde of veal, which put in a stewpan with a piece of butter, half a pound of lean ham, a carrot, one turnip three onions, six apples, one head of celery, one leek, a bunch ot pai-sley, thyme, and bay-leaf, a blade of mace, six cloves, and half a pmt ot water r set the stewpan over a sharp fire, move the meat round occasionally, let remain untU the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a brownish glaze ; then add two or three tablespoonfuls of currie powder, one of currie paste, if handy, and half a pound of flour, stir well in, and fill up with a gallon of water, add a spoonful of salt, half ditto of sugar, and a quarter ditto of pepper, let boil up; then place it at the corner of the stove, where let it sim- mer two hours and a half, then pass it through a hair sieve into the tureen ; trim some of the pieces of veal, which serve in it, and some plain boiled rice separate ; ox-tails or pieces of rabbits, chickens, &c., left from a previous dinner may be served in it instead of the veal; if too thick add a drop of broth or water. No. 44. GiBLET SoTJP. Clean two sets of giblets, and soak for two hours, cut them into equal sizes and put them into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, four pounds of veal or beef, half a pound of ham, a carrot, turnip, three onions, a head of celery, leek, two ounces of salt, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf; place the stewpan over a sharp fire, stirring the meat round occasionally, when the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a light glaze add half a pound of flour, stir well in, and fiU up with a gallon of water, add two burnt onions to colour it; when boihng set at the corner of the stove, let simmer, skim well, and when the giblets are tender take them out, put them in your tureen, pass the soup through a hair sieve over, and serve; twenty button onions, or any small sharp vegetable is very good in it, also a glass of port wine. No. 45. Gbeen Pea Soup. Put two quarts of green peas into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, quarter of a pound of lean ham cut in dice, two onions in slices, and a few sprigs of parsley; add a quart of cold water, and with the hand rub all well together, then pour ofi" the water, cover the stewpan close and stand it upon a sharp fire, tossing or stirring them round occasionally; when very tender add two or three tablespoonfuls of flour, mix well in, mashiug the peas with your spoon against the sides of the stewpan, add three quai-ts of broth, made as for Julienne soup (No. 35), or broth from the pot au feu (No. 34), and a tablespoonful of sugar, with a little pepper and salt if required, boil all well together five minutes ; then rub it through a tammie or hair sieve, put it into another stewpan with half a pint of boil- ing milk, boil and skim, then pour it into your tureen, and serve with small croutons of fried bread-crumbs. It must not be served too thick. No. 46. WiNTEB Pea Soup. Wash a quart of split peas, which put into a stewpan with half a pound of streaky bacon, two onions in slices, two pounds of veal or beef cut into small pieces, and a little parsley, thyme, and hay-leave, previously passed in butter in the same stewpan; cover with a gallon of water, add a httle salt and sugar, place it upon the fire; when boil- ing stand It at the side untU the peas are boiled to a puree, and the water has