KITCHEN AT HOME. 665 pieces of fat bacon ; then put it into a long earthen pan, with a calf's foot, ITolX two carrots cit in slices, if lai-ge, a bunch of P^-ley, ^ W- leaves, two sprigs of thyme, two cloves stuck m one of the J^^J^J t^^" spooAil of iepper, one of salt, four wineglasses of sheny, four ditto of water, and a pound of streaked bacon cut in squares, place the cover upon the pan, with a piece of common flour and water paste round the edges to keep it perfectly air-tight; put in a very moderate oven four hours, take out, place upon your dish with the vegetables and bacon round, skim the gravy which pour over • but the above is best eaten cold, when it should not be taken out of the pan, nor the pan opened until nearly cold. A long brown earthen pan for the above purpose may be obtamed at any china warehouse, but it you cannot obtain one, a stewpan must supply the place. Another method. Have ready six pounds of rump of beef cut into pieces two mches square, lard each piece through with two or three lardons of bacon; have also two pounds of streaked bacon, clear it from the skm, and cut it 'into squares half the size of the beef, put them into an earthen pan Avith two calf's feet (cut up), half a pint of sherry, two bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme, a bunch of parsley, four onions, with a clove in each, a blade of mace, and half a pint of water, cover the pan as in the last, and put it in a moderate oven for three hours; do not open the pan until three parts cold, then take out the meat, lay a little of the beef at the bottom of a stewpan (not too large), then a little of the bacon, then more beef, and so on alternately, press them together hghtly, then pass the gravy through a haii- sieve over, and leave it until quite cold, then dip the stewpan into hot water, and turn out upon your dish to serve ; the calf's feet may be made hot in a Uttle of the stock, to which add two pats of butter, with which you have mixed a teaspoonful of flour, a httle chopped parsley, and half a spoonful of vinegar, and serve as an entree. The above is excellent either hot or cold. No. 101. Ox-tongue. Procure a weU-pickled ox-tongue, if weighing five or six pounds it will take three hours gently boihng in a gallon of water, when done skin it and trim the root, serve where afterwards directed, or with spinach dressed as (No. 1088) under. No. 102. Loin of Veal with Stewed Celery. Put a small loin of veal upon a spit, surrounded with all descriptions of vegetables, tied up in oiled paper ; roast, if a middling-sized one, about two hours and a half before a moderate fire, have sixteen heads of celery, trim off aU the green part from the tops, and a httle of the roots, wash well; then cover the bottom of a stewpan with shces of fat bacon, lay in the celery, two heads tied together, add two onions and a carrot, just cover them with a little good stock, made as directed for soupe JuUeime (page 652), let simmer an hour or more until veiy tender, drain upon a cloth, untie them, dress the loin in the centre of your dish, make a border of the celery round, take out the bacon, onions, and carrot, skim off all the fat, reduce a httle, add an ounce of butter, with wliich you have mixed half a tablespoonful of flour, stu- well in, season with a httle sugar, salt, and pepper, and when boiling, sauce over the celery and serve; add a httle catsup and Harvey sauce to give a brownish colour to the sauce. No. 103. Loin or Veal with White Sauce. Roast a loin of veal as directed in the last, but keep it as white as possible, when done di'ess it upon