677 KITCHEN AT HOME. .rreat advantage in having chops cut after the above method At home, when I have a saddle of muttonf I usually cut three or four such chops from it cook and rub maitre d'hAtel butter over, and serve them with tried po- tatoes round, using the remainder of the saddle as a joint the next day. The above are also excellent seasoned, dipped into eggs, and bread-crumbed previous to broiling ; for lamb chops proceed precisely the same, only broihng them a few minutes less. No. 151. Veal Cutlets. Cut four cutlets from the neck, half an inch in thickness, beat Hghtly with a chopper, and cut off the chine-bones, season them well; have a couple of eggs well beaten upon a plate, into which dip them, then into bread-crumbs, take out, pat gently with a knife, and broil • rather more than ten minutes upon a gridiron over a good fire, turning occa- sionally, keeping them of a very light brown colour ; di-ess upon a dish, spreading a piece of the maitre d'hotel butter over each, turning them two or three times in the dish, and serving very hot. Veal cutlets are also very good served with the new sauce as for fiUets of beef or steaks, and the fried po- tatoes around them. No. 152. Pork Chops. Take four chops from a loin of pork, each about half an inch in thickness, beat them lightly, trim, season well with pepper and salt, broU nearly a quarter of an hour over a good fire, and serve very hot upon a dish, with or without apple-sauce in a boat. No. 153. Pork or Veal Chops Fried. Put one ounce of butter in a saute or fi-ying-pan, rub over the bottom, lay in four cliops, well sea- soned as in either of the two last; place the pan over a moderate fire, when the chops become coloured upon one side, turn them over, they wlU require turning two or three times before done ; when done, and of a nice colour, take them out, and place upon a dish ; put a spoonful of chopped onions in the pan, which fry until becoming of a brownish colour, then take oir as much of the fat as possible, add a teaspoonful of fiour (mix well with a wooden spoon), and moisten with half a pint of water; stir quickly, add a bay-leaf, and when boihng, season with half a saltspoonful of pepper, two of of salt, one of sugar, and two spoonfuls of vinegar, stir over the fire until forming a sauce, when again lay in the chops, let simmer five minutes, dress the chops upon a disb, add two chopped gherkins to the sauce, which pour over and serve, a little brown colouring (No. 146) added to the sauce would improve their appearance.