10 Z ' nt ' •\°no'-HWe reader, subject to meet en tete-h-tete with a fowl, poulnrde duck pheasant, or other vohilile species; is it not l,ad enough to have sacrificed Unves of thos^ ««n«««x to satisfy our indefatigable appetites, wUhrt pumnrumrLarinA^^ atoms the remamsof our benefactors ? it is high time for theTedit o l^^Cnitv anK comfort ol qmet amilies, to pnt an end to tl,e mtssacre of those .nnocenL'' ^ Inconiparable benevolence ! Tenderest commiseration ! Perfect humanity ! " We will ^eacTedS;itohe^'''r' -^''M ^'^'^ Pl^i'-tl^'-opic progress of t'he century h ' leached the lu Chen and animal love is most intense in the vicinity of the stocknot What mor^^w II h'^'"" '^"'"^""y '""1 the liberal sentSe ts 7no m iL ^"""''^^^ the night! Incipient porkers sh. 1 no longe r pine away then: sweetness, and strive to toughen their crackling in anticfja r loa" ^'^'^^"'T- ^"'^ '^'"^^ "° '^^^^''^ t° '^ive up their%kins before tueir ghosts and some humaner process than a surleit of food, a deprivation of drink, and a gradual roasting near a scorching fire, will, let us hope, be discovered, to give to the livers of clucks that glorious expansion and pinguid richness so mucu appreciated by the epicure We will not despair of witnessing, under the dominion of M. Soyer, the introduction and use'of some instrument analogous to the guillotine, which by a stroke shall do its deadly necessary work: nay, might not advances lately made in Mesmerism be turned to good account in procuring painless death to those whom the feeling Soyer so beautifully calls our " bene- lactors ? A goose, in a state of coma, wonld be uncognizant oi the penknife that divides Us jugular ; calves and sheep properly subjected to the action of the magnetic fluid would pass Irom life into the larder without a struggle or a groan. Bnt to carving ! For joints our author gives most lucid directions, which, if properly studied, cannot fail to convert the merest tyro into an admirable carver. For game and poultry he has done more. He has in- vented an instrument, to be had at Bramah's, in Piccadilly, and with which printed direc- tions are given, by the aid of which the joints of birds are severed without the smallest detriment to their good looks. " Formerly," he says, " nothing was more difficult to carve than wild lowl, the continual motion (when alive) of the wings and legs making the sinews almost as tough as wires, puzzling the best of carvers to separate them ; my new method has quite aoulished such a domestic tribulation." For which, as well as for the many other benefits conlerred by him upon the human race and the brute creation, we beg to reiterate ourhumble hearty thanks to the talented author of ' The Gastronomic Regenerator.' THE MOJtZO'IH'C CHROIffZCI.E. Alexis Suyer, the Gastronomic Regenerator—Everybody who knows him, everybody who has sat belore his dishes, everybody interested in the promotion of the Rel'orm cause, or who likes to have a good dinner at home, has long since said in his heart " Why does not Soyer write a book about cookery ?" When Rel'orm was flagging, when Peel had it all his own way, before a country party was thought of, or a revolt "seemed possible, when the idea of the Whigs coming in was hopeless, and the party therefore needed consolation, what did Soyer do ? At that moment of general depression Alexis Soyer invented cutlets a la rtforme. He didn't despair, he knew the avenir that was before the party. Ha rallied them" round the ii vigorating t.ible, from which they rose cheered and courageous; flushed with victuals, their attack upon the enemy was irresistible (as under such circumstances the charge of Britons always is), and Uowning-street may be said to be the dessert of the dinners in Pall- mall. He is one of the greatest politicians and pacificators in the world. If they had him ill Conciliation-hall, even there they would leave off quarrelling. Look at his influence upon tlie diplomacy of our country I In this very day's paper appears an account of a dinner at (hat very Rel'orm Club which Soj'er loves, and which has stood as sponsor to the great cut- lets which he invented—of a dinner at which Lord Palmerston and Ibrahim Pacha had their bunds in the same dish of pilatf, and tlie maker of that dish was Alexis Soyer. To such u nobie and magnanimous spirit as Soyer's evidently is, such a meeting will cause pride and thankfulness indeed. It is a happy omen. They have eaten salt together, and the peace of the world is assured. How it was that Gibbon came to write the ' Decline and Fall;' under what particular circumstances Newton conceived the theory of gravitation ; how Scott invented his works, cfec, are historic anecdotes with which all persons interested in literature are familiar. It is always pleasant to know how and where a great thought came into the brain of a great man, and so it is agreeable to know how this cookery book, which all tlie world longed lor, was suggesled to Soyer. (See the Preface.) Surely Ihis preface is one of the most remarkable docnments (hat ever ushered any book inio the v\orld. Soyer has maile it a rule never to refuse anything in his power to the ladies (the rogue) !—and, amongst other favours, they usked him for a cookery-book- The request