KITCHEN AT HOME. G61 sauce matelote (No. 57), or caper sauce, as for skate (No. 74) ; small carp are very good flavoured, bread-crumbed and fried. No. 80. Truite a la Twickenham. When you have cleaned your trout as described at page 93, put them into a kettle of boiling water, to which you have added a good handful of salt, and a wineglassful of vinegar; boil gently about twenty minutes, or according to their size, dress upon a napkin, and serve melted butter, into which you have put a tablespoonful of chopped gherkins in a boat. The remains of trout, salmon, ormackarel, are excellent pickled ; put three onious in shces in a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, one turnip, parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, pass them five minutes over the fire, add a pint of water and a pint of vinegar, boil until the onions are tender, then strain it through a sieve over the fish, it will keep some time if required, and then do to piclde more fish by boihng over again. No. 81. Truite a la Burton. Boil the trout as in the last, then put half a pint of melted butter in a stewpan, with two tablespoonfuls of cream and two of millc, place it upon the fire, and when upon the point of boiling add a haison of one yolk of egg mixed with a tablespoonful of cream, (dress the fish upon a dish without a napkin) put two ounces of fresh butter, a pinch of salt, and the juice of a lemon into the sauce; shake round over the fire, but do not let it boil; sauce over the fish and serve. No. 82. Tench, Sauce Matelote. Put thiee onions, a carrot, and turnip, cut in slices into a stewpan, or very small fish-kettle, with a good handful of parsley, a few sprigs of thyme, three bay-leaves, six cloves, a blade of mace, a little salt, and two glasses of sherry; lay your tench over, (it will require four for a dish, and they may be either cooked whole or each one cut into two or three pieces) add a pint of water, cover down close, and stew gently over a slow fire for about half an hour, take them out, di-aiu upon a cloth, di-ess in pyramid upon a dish without a napkin, and pour a sauce over made as directed for salmon sauce matelote (No. 57), or as for stewed carp (No. 78). No. 83. Tench with Anchovy Butter. Cook the tench as in the last, but they may be plain boUed in salt and water; dress upon a dish without a napkin, then put six spoonfuls of melted butter in a stewpan, with one of milk; place it upon the fii-e, and when upon the point of boiling add an ounce of anchovy butter (page 33), shake it round over the fire until the butter is melted, when sauce over and serve. No. 84. Perch fried in Butter. Clean the fish as explained (p. 94), dry well, make an incision upon each side with a knife, put a quarter of a pound of butter in a saute-pan over a slow fire, lay in the fish, fry gently, turning them over when half done; when done dress upon a napkin, and serve melted butter in a boat. No. 85. Perch, Hampton Court Fashion. Cook the fish as above, and have ready the foUowing sauce : put six spoonfuls of melted butter in a stewpan with a httle salt and the juice of a lemon; when upon the point of boiling stu- in the yolk of an egg mixed with a tablespoonful of cream; do not let it