KITCHEN AT HOME. 65G reduced to half, then take out the meat, place it in the tureen, keep it hot and rub the soup through a hair sieve or tammie, put it in another stewpan' and when boiling pour over the meat, and serve. The bacon is good cold the meat may also be put into the tureen if approved of. ' No. 47. PuKEE OF Vegetable Soup, Peel and cut up very fine three onions, three turnips, one carrot, and four potatoes, put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, the same of lean ham, and a bunch of parsley, pass them ten minutes over a sharp fire ; then add a good spoonful of flour, mix well in, moisten with two quarts of broth (prepared as for Ju- lienne soup. No. 35), and a pint of boiling milk, boil up, keeping it stirred ; season with a little salt and sugar, and rub through a hair sieve or tammie' put it into another stewpan, boil again, skim, and serve with croutons of fried bread in it. No. 48. Maigbe Soup. Cut two onions into very small dice and put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, fry them a short time, but not to change colour; have three or four handfuls of well washed sorrel, cut it into ribands, and put it into the stewpan with the onions, add two table- spoonfuls of flour, mix well, then a pint of milk and a pint of water, boil all together ten minutes, season with a little sugar and salt, and finish with a liaison of two yolks of eggs, mixed with a gill of cream, stir it in quickly, do not let it boil afterwards ; put the crust of a French roll cut in strips into your tureen, pour the soup over, and serve. No. 49. Onion Soup Maigre. Peel and cut ten large onions into small dice, put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, place them over the fire, fry them well; then add three tablespoonfuls of flour, which mix well, and rather better than a quart of water, boil till the onions are quite tender, season with a little salt and sugar, finish with a Uaison, and serve as in the last; grated cheese is an improvement in it. No. 50. Vermicelli Soup. Make your stock as for Julienne soup (No. 35), when passed put it into another stewpan with two ounces of ver- micelli, boil it a quarter of an hour, then pour it into your tureen, and serve. Semoulina or tapioca soup is made the same, using either, instead of ver- miceUi. For rice soup, see No. 196. No. 51. Maccauoni Soup. (See No. 197, ItaHan Paste, No. 193). FISH.—No. 52. TuRBOT. For the methods of cleaning fish, see the other department of this work. In my kitchen at home I should never think of cook- ing too large a turbot, but choose a middle-sized one which, generally speak- ing, is the best; cut an incision in the back, rub it well with a good handful of salt, then with the juice of a lemon, set it in a turbot kettle well covered with cold water, in which you have put a good handful of salt, place over the fire and as soon as the water boils put it at the side, if a turbot of ten pounds it wiU take an hour after it has boiled, if it should be allowed to more than simmer it will be very unsightly; take out of the water, leave a minute upon your drainer, serve upon a napkin garnished with fresh parsley, and lobster sauce in a boat; for sauce (see No. 68,) or shrimp sauce (No. 73).