638 KITCHEN AT HOME. fattens the animals but decreases tlie flavour of tlie meat; and, again, we must take into consideration tlie care and attention paid by the farmers and graziers to improve the stock of those unfortunate benefactors of the human family. Every country is famous, more or less, for some produce, so is every county ; for instance, for the best beef we are indebted principally to Scot- land : the Highland ox, which if bred in Scotland, kept there until four years old, and fed twelve months in Norfolk, cannot be surpassed; those also that are killed in Scotland are likewise very commendable, but the con- noisseur would give the preference by far to those that had undergone a change of atmosphere and pasturage. Norfolk also produces excellent beef, as hke- wise does Herefordshire, which three sorts are ranked as the best by the first judges. The Brighton downs are noted for producing sheep of the first quality, next to which may be ranked those of the Norfolk downs, they are rather larger, more fleshy, and the meat sometimes a darker colour. Herefordshire also produces some very excellent. The Scotch mutton is also very good, and deservedly of high repute, but I rarely ever use it, as it is killed in Scotland and hurriedly packed, which causes it not to look so weU and frequently very much bruises it; but those of Leicestershire are, in my opinion, quite the con- trary, being coarse meat and very fat, I consider it unworthy of making its appearance upon the table of a man of wealth. When residing at Melton Mowbray I tried several haunches, even after hanging a month in winter and then roasted to perfection, I could not find in them any flavour worthy of the taste of an epicure; I consider it more as a useful nourishment than a delicate meat. The best Welsh mutton is brought du-ect from its native mountams, the heath upon which it feeds gives a very rich flavour to the meat, which is veiy dark without much fat; many are fed in some of the EngHsh counties, they are very excellent and much fatter, but do not possess the same wild flavour. The best veal to be obtained in the spring time of the year comes from the west of England, being rather small and very white, but there is a steady supply of good veal from Surrey and Essex throughout the year. Although very flne veal may be obtained in this country, it is not to be compared to the quality of veal we obtain in France ; the veal of Pontoise, a httle town six miles from Paris, outrivals any; I would venture to say that one pound of that veal would make a better stock than double the quantity of the veal procured here, no one can account for it, but such is the actual case; al- though there the quality of any other description of animal food is deficient, we hive to boast of the'exceUent flavour, succulence, and excessive whiteness ^^Houiriamb may be obtained throughout the whole year, but there is no gi-eat demand for it before February; grass lamb makes its appeai-ance now much earlier than formerly, the quahty much depends upon the wmter season if a mild winter they may really be fed upon grass, but if the contraiy, they musrbe fed with prepared food, which increases then- size but dmnnishes ^^'portSoasting is best when about six months old Berkshhe and Hamp- shire producing thf best. The size of a leg of pork should not exceed mo e 11 an seven pounds, nor much less than six ; I do not know why but of late y ars por£ Ls lost in a great measure its popularity, and ^^^^^^^^^ upon a nobleman's table; it is in season from October to about Maicli.