KITCHEN OF C38 partments, (see Plate) eacli having a separate pipe and brass cock, with a separate main pipe to each stove, which supplies sufficient gas to burn the whole five compartments at once, or only one by not turning the gas into any of the other compartments, or if all burning at once the fire may be regulated to any height you may think proper by means of the brass cocks, turning the gas cither full or only partially on. It possesses also the follow- ing advantages : you obtain the same heat as from charcoal the moment it is lit, it is a fire that never requires making up, is free from carbonic acid which is so pernicious, especially in small kitchens, and creates neither dust or smell (except the gas should neglectfully be not properly turned off), and by my last improvement it is also now quite free from smoke. With the aid of my new octagonal trivet* I can place nine stewpans over without the fear of upsetting either, some only simmering and others boiling at the same time, which is invaluable, as by the gentle simmering you are enabled to extract all the fat from soups or sauces, assisting in the clarification, and causing them to digest more freely. The gas stoves also tend to greater economy, as they are not lit till the moment wanted, then only the quantity required, and may be put out the moment it is done with, I think it a great pity that they can only be fitted in London and other large towns daily supplied with gas, but it is there it is most required, as the kitchens are smaller than in country houses, no heat whatever being created in the smallest kitchens by the use of gas stoves. Further on at the end of the stove and parallel with the bain marie there is another, two feet six inches square with two taps for hot and cold water, used for keeping sauces hot for a private dinner in the house dinner room, being three different bain maries, one for fish sauce, one for the cofiFee-room, and one for the private dinner. Next is a slate sink two feet and a half long, one foot two inches wide, and eleven inches deep, with two taps for hot and cold water used for washing various kitchen utensils used at the charcoal stoves. Above the sink, hot plate, and bain marie, is an iron rack nine feet long with hooks to hang large saut^-pans. Near it is a hot plate two feet six inches square heated by steam, upon which are placed dishes prepared for dinners and from thence removed to the house dinner-lift, which is drawn up either by steam or hand machine. The sink trap bell is one of the most simple and useful fixtures of a kitchen ; * Tlie old fashioned triangular trivets seemed to have been made as incouveiiieut as possiljlc, being made only for one largo stcAvpan to stand over the fire, not leaviug room for any smaller ones round. , , ,^ t The maker of these gas stoves is Mr. Eikett, who constmcts Ihcm to peifcctiou at a trifling cxpciiso accorduig to their mciit. BAIN MAllIE, SINK, HOT PLATE, AND BACK. FOB SAUTE-PANS.