CULINARY INNOVATION. Tresor of the Baroness Rothschild; the Noble Devotion of Lady., Sale; the Knowledge of the Fine Arts of the Marchioness of Lansdowne; the Charity of the Lady De Grey; a Criticism from the Viscountess of MelviUe :-with a Musical Accompaniment from the whole; and Portraits of aU these Ladies taken from the Book of Celebrated Beauties. Araalgamate scientifically; and should you find this Appareil (which is without a parallel,) does not mix weU, do not regard the expense for the completion of a dish worthy of the Gods I Endeavour to procure, no matter at what price, a Virtuous Maxtm from the Book of Education of Her Boyal Highness the Duchess of Kent; a Kiss fiw the Infant Princess Ahce • an Innocent Trick of the Princess Royal; a Benevolent Visit from the Duchess of Gloucester; a Maternal Sentiment of Her Royal Highness the Duchess of Cambridge; a Complhnent from the Princess Augusta de Mecklenbourg; the future Hopes of the Young Princess Mary; And the Munificence of Her Majesty Queen Adelaide. Cover the Vase with the Reign of Her Most Gracious Majesty, and let it simmer for half a centm-y, or more, if possible, over a Ffre of Immortal Roses. Then uncover, with the greatest care and precision, this Mys- terious Vase; garnish the top with the Aurora of a Spring Morning; several Rays of the Sun of France; the Serenity of an Itahan Sky; and the Universal Appreciation of the Peace of Em-ope. Add a few Beams of the Aurora BoreaHs; sprinkle over with the Vfrgin Snow of Mont Blanc; glaze with an Eruption of Mount Vesuvius; cause the Star of the Shepherd to dart over it; and remove, as quickly as possible, this chef-d'oeuvre of the nine- teenth century from the Volcanic District. Then fill Hebe's Enchanted Cup with a religious Bahn, and with it surround this mighty Cream of Immortality; Terminate Avith the Silvery hght of the Pale Queen of Night, without disturbing a Ray of the Brilliancy of the brightest Queen of the Day. Note. " We are authorised by the Author, to inform his readers, tliat even up to this moment, of finishing the printmg, no answer has been received from the Goimnet before mentioned, stating his opinions Avith regai-d to the Cream of Great Britain, on account, as we liave been informed, of his cook not having as yet been able to complete the Dish.—J. E. Adlard.