NEW PAGODATIQUE ENTREE UlSIi, A LA SOYER.* The union which has been forced between the Children of the Sun and those of proud Albion has thrown some beneficial rays upon our Euro- pean domaSs^and costumes, and if they have not improved our manners and habits thcY have at aU events changed them. „ e I 1; true that we had. previously to this, reaped marvellous things from the "Celestial Empire;" but the EngUsh nation, always eager for novelty, coiild not be conZted with their {Ombres Chinoises) Chinese shadows but must possess them in reality. Since this astonishing conquest jou bave Chinese quadriUes, Chinese fashions, exhibitions furiously Chinese, and, toi certain, several mHhons of dollars, which are every bit as Chinese as the li- lusti-ious descendant of more than forty centuries, whom you are still expect- ing as a most extraordinary ambassador. I already perceive that your shoes, " jolies Jnalaises," change and diminish with great rapidity. Even now you appear to walk with difficulty ; really, if you continue this practice, you will, like the Mandarins' ladies, have veiy pretty feet for sitting, but very bad ones for walking. The intellectual part, which is covered with your splendid " blonde chevelure," wiU suffer as much as your httle feet; and it will be a contest be- tween your astonishing and gracious Amazons, who shall have their hair tiu-ned up first, in hopes to resemble your celestial sister and nuptial com- panion of the expected plenipotentiary. Your beautiful eyes, I hope, will re- main in their primitive purity; also that clear and rich tone of colour, which brings to mind those extraordinary fine visages clair de lune de Vantiquite. The island of Great Britain adds to and preserves this superb and almost ephemeric colour, unknown to the soil of the Continent. You may, nymphs of the ocean, let your nails grow in the fantastic man- ner of that captured country; that is, near an inch longer than our insignifi- cant custom in Europe, which is, they say, " a part of the world far from being civilized." I would also advise you to use with moderation the beaume Cremeux Houbigant, which wiU preserve them that beautiful vermeil, so greatly admired. But reflect for a moment, in giving full scope to your fashionable taste, you sacrifice a thousand chef-d'ceuvres, and entirely forsake our illustrious fa- vorites, Mozart, Rossini, Meyerbeer, Auber, Handel, and many others; be- cause you recollect that the harp, guitar, piano, &c., were not invented for the Mandarines: but setting aside all these little tribulations, while walkmg about with pain, you wDl have the gratification of hearing, " There goes a lady of the newest fashion." * Extracted from my " D61assements Culinaues," lately published by Jeffc, Bui'- lington Arcade ; a Second Edition of which will shortly appeal*.