CULINARY INNOVATION. 719 it at home and then give it to him; but is it practicable at this season of the Quite as practicable at one season as another, for it is partly composed of flowers which bloom in all seasons." " Indeed! then I will certainly have it made." " I depend upon your impartial judgment; be so kind as to let me know what you think of that unique composition." " I will, without fail, and do myself the pleasure of writing you a note upon that subject. Good afternoon." " Good afternoon, sir." It has been reported to us, that as soon as he got home, he comfortably set himself in his arm-chair a la Bouariere, and appeared reading with great sm-prise, the receipt for THE CELESTIAL AND TEMUESTRIAL CREAM OF GREAT BRITAIN.* Procure, if possible, the antique Vase of the Roman Capitol ; the Cup of Hebe; the Strength of Hercules; and the power of Jupiter; Then proceed as foUoios.-— Have ready the chaste Vase (on the ghttering rim of which three doves are resting in peace), and in it deposit a Smile from the Duchess of Sutherland, from which Terrestrial Deesse it wiU be most graceful; then add a Lesson from the Duchess of Northumberland; the Happy Remembrance of Lady Byron; an Invitation from the Marchioness of Exeter; a WaUc in the Fairy Palace of the Duchess of Buckingham; an Honom' of the Marchioness of Domo; a Sketch from Lady Westmoreland; Lady Chesterfield's Conversation; the Deportment of the Mar- chioness of Aylesbmy; the AfFabihty of Lady JMarcus Hill; some Romances of Mrs. Norton; a Mite of Gold from Miss Coutts; a Royal Dress from the Duchess of Buccleugh; a Re- ception from the Duchess of Leinster; a Fragment of the Works of Lady Blessington; a Ministerial Secret from Lady Peel; a Gift from the Duchess of Bedford; an Interview with Madame de Bunsen; a Diplomatic Reminiscence from the Marchioness of Clanricarde; an Autocratic Thought from the Baroness Brunow; a Reflection from Lady John Russell; An amiable Word from Lady Wilton; the Protection of the Countess de St. Aulaii-e; a Seraphic Strain from Lady Essex; a poetical gift of the Baroness de la Calabrala; a Welcome from Lady Ahce Peel; the Sylph- Hke form of the Marchioness of Abercorn; a Soiree of the Duchess of Beaufort; a Reverence of the Viscountess Jocelyn; and the good-will of Lady Palmerston. Season with the Piquante Observation of the Marchioness of Londonderry; the Stately Mien of the Countess of Jersey; the