KITCHEN OF THE KEFOEM CLUB, &c. (a.) la boucheme. • This essential part of the kitchen department is complete in its several arrangements, and one cannot help noticing that in spite of the moderate size of this room everything is contrived with the utmost convenience, perfect ventilation, and with due economy. As this small space is fully adequate to the general wants of this large kitchen, it must, therefore, be equally good for one of smaller dimensions. My object not being to fix the size of aU pri- vate boucheries according to this, it therefore must be left to localities, and the details below may be taken as a general principle. The length of the room is twelve feet by nine; at the further corners are two blocks to cut the meat upon, which are two feet in diameter, and two feet seven inches high, includ- ing the supporters, eight inches from the floor, giving facihty to clean under- neath, also to prevent decay; between the two blocks is a patent scale of a simple construction, and very convenient, upon which can be weighed above two hundred pounds of meat with great ease. On the right and left are two tables, three inches thick, sLx feet six inches long, one foot nine inches wide, and three feet three inches high, with a drawer to each, and a square box covered over, underneath the tables, for waste fat, &c.; above the tables is a flat rod with small hooks, one inch and a half long and three inches apart, upon which are various sized meat-hooks; all round the room upon the walls are thick slates, six feet high. Those slates lately introduced in bmlding I would particularly recommend where coolness is required, and also as being very clean. (b.) principal lardeu fob, meat and game. The gastronomic variety generally collected in this sanctuary of taste requires the utmost care and cleanliness, the joints prepared for the day arranged with symmetry and taste, so as to present to the eye the finest sides, the same respecting the chessed meat dishes and cold poultry, which should always be trimmed and garnished with fresh parsley, ready to be served up at a moment's notice. A good ventilation, being of the utmost importance, should be particularly attended to. The following dimensions wUl greatly assist for the contrivance of a larder perfectly convenient if built with the same proportions. The size is eighteen feet long and fifteen feet wide, having on the right side a dresser fourteen feet long, three wide, and two feet ten inches high, the top IS of slate one inch thick, instead of wood, which is an excellent substi- tute, and always covered with a dresser cloth; there are eight ice drawers opening on castors, when large and deep as these, it is advisable to make them m a simdar manner running on castors, as their weight would otherwise cause them to open with difficulty. The first four are two feet eight inches square and nine inches deep, hned with lead, and principaUy for jellies, ice creams, &c., the others beneath are deeper, for piclcling-tubs ; the tempera- ture IS from thirty-five to forty degrees, allowing comestibles of the most cleiicate kind to be kept a consideral)le time without deteriorating their qua- lities. Ihe construction of those drawers is considered ingenious • the hot-