KITCHEN AT HOME. wlien hot (which you may perceive by the smoke arising from it, or by throwing a drop of water in, if sufficiently hot it will liiss and snap), put in the slices of potatoes, and fry about ten minutes until crisp, and a very lio-ht brown colour; care must be taken that the fat is not too hot, or the po- tatoes would be burnt before they were sufficiently cooked. Another method of frying potatoes, although rather more extravagant, is very simple and excellent; put a quarter of a pound of butter in a stewpan or saucepan, and when melted put in twenty small new potatoes, if in season, or potatoes cut as before, place over a sharp fire, stirring them occasionally, until of a nice gold colour; should they absorb aU the butter, add a little more, when done sprinkle a Uttle salt over, and serve round the fiUet or steak; this may be used in many instances in the kitchens of the wealthy. No. 148. A New Steak. Procure a piece of ribs of beef containing a couple of bones, from which detach the meat, and cut three steaks length- wise, beat lightly with" the cutlet-bat, trim a little, broil one or two, sea- soning them well, and serve with sauce and fried potatoes as before. No. 149. Fillet or Steak a la Maitre d'Hotel. Cut, ti-im, and broil the fillet or steaks, from either the rump or ribs of beef, as before (alM'ays over a sharp fire) ; place them upon your dish, have ready two ounces of butter, with which you have mixed a saltspoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of white pepper, one of chopped parsley, and the juice of half a lemon, rub all over the steaks, turning them three or four times, the butter mixing with the gravy forms an admirable sauce ; serve with fried potatoes round as before. The above steaks or fillets are also very excellent broiled as above, and served with anchovy butter (page 33), instead of the butter prepared as last directed, and using one ounce instead of two. Should any of the above steaks be required plain broiled, to give them an extra zest, sprinkle chopped eschalots in addition to the other seasoning over previous to placing them upon the gridiron ; a steak cut of the ordinary size, would require ten minutes broiling over a good fire. Mutton and lamb chops, or even cotelettes, are very good dressed in the before-mentioned man- ners ; a Httle glaze, if liandy, is also an improvement. For mutton chops, a little Harvey sauce and chili vinegar poured over just before taking from the gridiron renders them very beautiful eating. No. 150. A New Mutton or Lamb Chop. Having previously and suc- cessfully introduced a new joint (the saddle-back), I thought I would also introduce a new form of mutton or lamb chops, and adopted the following one, as represented in the engraving, which is not only very novel, but the manner in which they are cut, by jagging the meat, causes them to eat much lighter and better, they being saw^ed olf the saddle instead of cut fi-om the loin, proceed as follows: . i i i/. • i. Trim a middling-sized saddle of mutton, which cut into chops, halt an incli in thickness, with a saw, without at all making use of a knife; then trim to the shape represented in the drawing; season weU with salt and pepper, place upon a gridiron over a sharp fire, turning them three or four times, they will require about ten minutes cooking; when done place them upon a dish, spread a small piece of fresh butter (if approved of) over each, and serve. The bone keeping the gravy in whUst cooking, is a very