KITCHEN AT HOME. 667 a auart of the stock the head was boiled in, season witb salt and sugar, reduce until of a proper consistency, rub it through a hair sieve or tammie, put into another stewpan, boil up, skim, and sauce over the head, which serve with rice, plain boiled, in a separate dish. No. 108. Half Calf's Head a la Vinaigrette. (See No. 460). No 109. Half Calf's Head Broiled, Sauce PiauANTE. Boil the head as before, when done drain upon a napkin, place it upon a bakmg-sheet, e^g over with a paste-brush, cover with bread-crumbs, put a few smaU pieces of butter upon it at various places, and put into a hot oven imtil well browned; dress upon your dish with about a pint of good sharp sauce (page 15) round. The tongue and brains may be served dressed as described before, with each of the methods for dressing calf's head. No. 110. Large Veal Pie. Have ready boiled a pound of streaked bacon, when cold cut it in large thin slices, also cut four pounds of lean veal from tbe fillet into large but thin slices, season each piece well with pepper and salt, and dip them into flour; lay some of the bacon at the bottom of a pie-dish, then some veal, over which sprinkle a Httle chopped eschalots, then more bacon, and so on alternately, finishing in a perfect dome; have ready a pound of half puff paste (page 480), place a band round the edge of your dish, wet it, and pour in a quarter of a pint of water to the meat, cover with the remainder of the paste, egg over and decorate it tastefully, bake an hour and three quarters in a moderate oven. They may also be made of the re- mains of a joint of veal previously served, but half a pint of white sauce (No. 136) used in it, and the water omitted, but tlie paste will then require to be much thinner, and it must be baked in a much warmer oven, or the meat would eat dry ; a couple of bay-leaves in a veal pie is a great improvement. No. 111. Saddle OF Mutton A LA Bretonne. (See page 189.) No. 112. Leg of Mutton basted with Devil's Tears. Procure a fine but small leg of mutton which has been well kept, cut an incision in tbe knuckle, in which put a clove of garlick, rub all over with a spoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of cayenne, two ditto of black pepper, and another clove of garlic (well mixed), and let remain upon a disb until the following day, when place it upon a spit before a sharp fire, then procure about a quarter of a pound of fat bacon, place it upon a long toasting-fork, running the prongs through the rind, and hold over the fire until in a blaze, then hold it over the mutton upon which it will drop in tears of fire, until all melted ; it will give the mutton quite a peculiar flavour and appearance, and requiring a quarter of an hour less to roast than in the ordinary method; when done dress upon your dish, sauce over with two spoonfids of Harvey sauce and serve. No. 113. Leg of Mutton, the Housewife's Method. Have a good ]eg, beat it a little with a rolling-pin, make an incision in the knuckle, in which put two cloves of garhck, then put it into a braising-pan with a pound of lean bacon cut in eight pieces, set over a moderate fire half an hour, moving it now and then until becoming a light brown colom-, season with a httle pepper and salt, add twenty pieces of carrots of the same size as the bacon, fifteen middling-sized onions, and when half done fifteen middling-sized