706 KITCHEN AT HOME. roll up into a ball, and with the rolhng-pin form it into a round sheet, nearly halt an inch in thickness; have ready a round-bottoraed basin weU buttered and floured, which hne with the sheet of paste, keeping it about an inch above the nm of the basin; have also ready sufficient apples peeled and cut m slices, with which fill the interior, adding a piece of butter the size of a walnut, SIX ounces of powdered or brown sugar, six or eight cloves, and a httle grated nutmeg; wet round the edge of the paste above the basin, roll out the remainder to form a lid of about the same thickness, lay it over the top, joining them well together, then tie the pudding with the basin in a cloth; have ready a good-sized stewpan over the fire, three parts full of boihng water, into which put the pudding, boiling it about an hour and a half; when done and ready to serve take it from the cloth, pass your knife carefully round the sides between the pudding and the basin, turn over upon a dish, lift the basin from it gently, and serve as soon as possible. Some people prefer the paste for fruit puddings made of butter, which is also very good; but in my opinion the suet paste is much lighter; the trimmings of puflf-paste, if any, would also make an excellent crust for a fruit. Puddings of gooseberries, cherries, currants, raspberries, plums, damsons, &c. are made precisely the same, but omitting the cloves, nutmeg, and piece of butter, and less boiling. No. 2^9. Pastry. For the making of good puff-paste I could not give a more simple receipt than that (page 479) in the other department, to which I must refer my readers, as also for half-pulF-paste (page 480), which will be found very serviceable in the making of pies or fruit tarts, the method of making which it is here my intention to describe, but for all other dishes of small fancy pastry, a great variety will be found in the Kitchen of the Wealthy, very simply explained, and requiring no greater convenience to make than what my Kitchen at Home will afford. No. 260. Short Paste for Fruit Tarts. Although I have above stated that the half-puff is very excellent for the covering of fruit tarts, I am also aware that very many persons prefer a short sweet paste, as such I have given the following receipt, leaving my readers to choose between the two, the process being the same for either. Put a pound of flour upon your pastry slab, with six ounces of butter, and rub them well together with your liands, then make a hole in the centre, in which put two ounces of powdered sugai-, two whole eggs, and rather more than a wineglassful of water; mis the eggs, sugar, and water well together, then draw in the flour and butter, shaking the whole well, and when dry work it together lightly with the hands. No. 261. Apricot Tarts. For tarts the apricots do not require to be too ripe. Procure about two dozen, or according to the size of your dish, split each one in halves, break their stones and take out theii- kernels, which blanch and skin, lay the apricots in your chsh, building them in the form of a dome above the level of your dish, and interspersing the kernels here and there cover them over with half a pound of lump sugar broken very small; have ready sufficient half-puff-paste (page 480), or the tart-paste just described, a band of which, the eighth of an inch in thickness, lay round the rim of your dish previously wetting it, then roll out a sheet of the paste large enough to