^^4' KITCHEN AT HOME. bottom of the stewpan is covered with a thickish brown glaze • then add « quarter of a pound of flour stir it well in, and fiU up the st w^an w th three quarts of water, add a tablespoonful of salt, stir oceasionall/until bo hnT when set i upon the corner of the stove, skim weU, and let simmer until the tads are stewed very tender, the flesh coming easily from the bone, take them out imniediately and put them into your tureen ; pass the soup, which must not be too thick, through a hair sieve over them, add a head of celery previously cut smaU and blanched in a Httle stock, and serve. Ox-tail soup may also be made clear by omitting the flour, and serving ve- shlpe dii-ected in Juhenne soup (No. 35), but cut in any other No. 40. Ox-cheek Soup. Blanch and wash weU two ox-cheeks, cut off the beard, take away all the bone, which chop up, and cut the flesh into mid- dling sized pieces leaving the cheek part whole, put altogether mto a stew- pan, with four quarts of water, a Httle salt, ten peppercorns, two carrots, two turnips, one leek, one head of celery, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay- leaf, also a burnt onion to colour it; let stew at the corner of the fii-e six hours, keeping well skimmed, then take out the fleshy part of the cheek and pass the broth through a hair sieve into another stewpan, mix half a pound of flour with a pint of cold broth, which pour into it and stir over the fire until boiling, place it at the corner, let simmer till tender (adding two heads of celery cut very fine, and a glass of sherry) ; when the celery is tender, cut the meat in small square slices, keep them warm, and when the soup is ready pour over and serve. Sheep's or lamb's heads also make very good soup by following the above receipt, and adding two pounds of veal, mutton, or beef to the stock, two heads would be sufficient, and they would not require so long to stew. No. 41. New Mock Turtle Soup. Procure half a calf's head (scalded, not skinned), bone it, then cut up a knuckle of veal, which put into a stew- pan with half a pound of lean ham, two ounces of butter, one of salt, at the bottom, a carrot, one turnip, three onions, a head of celery, a leek, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, marjoram, basil, and a bay-leaf, with nearly half a pint of water, move round occasionally upon the fire until the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a white glaze, then add six quarts of water, and put in the half head, let simmer at the corner of the fire for two hours and a half, or till the head is perfectly tender, when take it up and press it between two dishes, pass the stock through a hair sieve into a basin ; then in another stewpan have a quarter of a pound of butter, with a sprig of thyme, basil, marjoram, and a bay-leaf, let the butter get quite hot; then add six ounces of flour to form a roux, stir over a sharp fire a few minutes, keeping it quite white, stand it off the fire to cool, then add the stock, boil up, skim, and pass it through a hair sieve into another stewpan, cut the head into pieces an inch square, not too thick, and put them into the soup, which season with a httle cayenne pepper; when the xjieces are hot, add a gill of cream, and pour it into your tureen. The above quantity will make several tureens of soup and will keep good several days. No. 42. Brown Mock Turtle Soup. Proceed the same as in the last article, only colouring the stock by drawing it down to a brown glaze, or