KITCHEN AT HOME. 643 white as possible, besides having saved the whole of the gravy. If no ice, spring water will answer the same purpose, but will require to be more fre- quently changed; the same modewouldbeequally successful with the aitch-bone. The above is a joint which I have always considered too large for my Kitchen at Home, but the aitch-bone or brisket is easily managed. No. 6. Aitch-bone of Beef. A good sized one would weigh from fifteen to twenty pounds, pickle it precisely as directed in the last, but one week woidd be sufficient, boil nearly three hours and serve with the vege- tables round as before, and a suet pudding separate ; if for cold do not take the tape from it untU cold, trim the top, run a silver skewer in at the extre- mity, and serve garnished with sprigs of very green fresh parsley. No. 7. Beisket of Beef. The whole brisket would require pickling for a week, it must not be too fat, this being a long awkward joint may be cut in two and served upon separate occasions, boil about five hours and serve as for the last two with the vegetables around it, when upon table it must be cut into thin slices fat and lean in fair proportions. The remains of a bris- ket of beef are excellent when cold. No. 8. Brisket op Beef a la Gabrick, This dish will, I am sure, be as popular with the English public as the celebrated tragedian and comedian whose name I have borrowed, even if he were now alive. Procure a nice brisket of beef with as little fat as possible attached, if too much cut a little of it off" and detach the whole of the bones from it, then make a pickle with twenty pounds of salt, three quarters of a pound of saltpetre, four cakes of salt prunel, two pounds of moist sugar, and two cloves of garlic, with which rub the meat well and leave it rather more than a week, rubbing and turning it over every day, then drain and cut it into two equal parts, place one upon the other, mixing the fat and lean well, tie them together, and afterwards in a clean cloth, put into a large stewpan or stock pot containing six gallons of water, and let simmer for eight hours, but to ascertain correctly if done run a trussing-needle into it, if tender it is quite done, then take it out and let it remain ten minutes upon a dish to drain, have ready a large tin dish-cover eighteen inches long, twelve wide, and deep in proportion, place it upon a trivet and put the beef into it, opening the cloth to lay smoothly in the cover and with a fork arranging the meat fat and lean toge- ther aU over the bottom; you have a common piece of board half an inch in thickness made to fit into the cover, place it upon the meat with half a hun- dred weight upon it and let remain in a cold place until the next morning, then take off" the weight and the board, pull the cloth gently at each angle^ and when loose turn it over upon your dish, take the cloth off" gently, gar- nish with sprigs of parsley, fresh watercresses, and small radishes (if in season,) cut m thm strips crosswise. Nothing could be nicer than this for a breakfast or luncheon, it wiH keep good a fortnight in winter and as lono- as a week m the summer by putting it in a cold place. I have frequently made some m my Kitchen at Home, procuring a piece weighing ten or twelve pounds, from the bones and trimmings of which I have also made very excel- lent soup, which last of course must be fresh. The pickHng wiU answer to salt three or four other joints, as it will keep good nearly a month in summer and much longer in winter. No. 9. Haunch of Mutton. The haunch is the most important joint