NEW MODE OF CARVING. XVU is not employed ; if a slice' from a fillet of a sirloin is required, the servant must take the joint to the sideboard, and turn it over with a couple of forks, when again placed upon the table, the carver must carefully part some of the fat which covers it, if too much, then cut short slices in a slanting direction, as if from the breast of a fowl, in- stead of crosswise, for then if clumsily carved and overdone it has a strong resemblance to an old strap. For a rump of beef, either roasted or stewed, always commence at the fattest end, carving in a slanting direction, by which means you will obtain a correct quantity of that delicate article, if even you should be carving for twenty people, whilst by cutting straight across, some would have the greater proportion fat and the remainder nothing but lean. Any other piece of beef rolled and stewed, and fillets of beef, as served for a remove, all require to be carved in a slanting direction. For a fillet of veal, proceed in the same manner as directed for a round of beef. A loin of veal, if cut straight at the commencement, is entirely spoiled, but when carved slantingly (if well done from the best end), and eaten with its own gravy, nothing could be nicer, the remaining is then also very good cold, even the kidney ought to be served the same ; and the breasts, either roasted or stewed, require the same style of carving. For legs of mutton or lamb I also proceed in a new way: the frill, which is placed upon the knuckle-bone, is not only intended to orna- ment the leg, but Ukewise to enable you to hold the bone with your left hand, and carving with the right, which would wonderfully facili- tate the operation. Instead of cutting across the middle, which opens all parts at once, thus losing a great deal of the succulence, I com- mence carving at about two inches from the knuckle, beginning with the heel of the knife, drawing it along to the point, cutting six or eight slices at once, more or less if required, then pass the knife beneath the whole, detaching them from the bone, thus helping each person quickly and with very hot meat, the gravy remaining in the meat will keep it moistened in good order for cold, whilst in the general manner you have nothing but dry meat, or if underdone on purpose for cold, the meat will always have a black appearance. This is my way of carving at home, but if objectionable to take the frill with the fingers, make use of the carving-fork ; at home I never allow any gravy to be put into the dish, but served separately in a boat, but It the meat is of good quaUty it will supply (if well roasted) an abun- dance of good gravy. If for the table of the wealthy, commence carving the leg nearer to the centre, but always in a slanting direction. l^or shoulders of mutton or lamb to eat w^ell and deHcate, the fat and lean must be weU mixed in serving, to accomphsh which the joint must be carved in a still more slanting direction than the legs, also be- ginning rather near to the knuckle. For necks and loins of mutton, never separate the bones of either with a chopper, or you wiU partially mutilate the meat, thus losing a the gravy in roasting, and frequently have great difficulty in carving, in tS !• ' ^^^^ ^ '"^^^ ^« possible, cutting m the direction you require to carve. j f > 5