KITCHEN AT HOME. ^4.7 .,e.high bone, a„abnnsi.|g it 0^ fh^r^lrSJrrsoUtre^ u'pon the .nueMe, and .erve a. h^fm-P The lea: only woiild require one hour roasting. rir\he tc dfe, skewer the flaps underneath, curling each one round, run a lark- pit hrough the spinal marrow-bone, and fix it to a larger spit; place I shtet butSd paper'over, and roast an hour and a half before a good fire, dress upon your dish and serve as for the fore-quarter. No 26. Fillet or Veal. Choose it of the best quality, as described at the commencement of this series. Procure a eg, saw off the knuckle, take out the bone in the centre of the fiUet, and fiU up the cavity with some Suffing made as directed (No. 127), fold the udder and flap round which fix with three skewers; place half a sheet of buttered foolscap paper top and bottom, which tie over and over with plenty of string, run a spit through, flxing the fillet with a hold-fast, set down to roast, placing it rather close to the fire ten minutes, rub weU over with butter, then place it at least two feet and a half from the fire, to roast very slowly, giving it a fine gold colour; a fillet weighing sixteen pounds would require three hours roasting, when done take it up, detach aU the string and paper, trim the top and set it upon your dish; have a pint of melted butter in a stewpan upon the fire, to which, when boiling, add four spoonfuls of Harvey sauce, and two of mushroom catsup, mix well, and pour round.the fillet; have also boiled nicely an ox- tongue, which skin and trim, dress upon a dish surrounded with greens or cabbage nicely boiled, and serve as an accompaniment to the fillet. In my small kitchen I, however, content myself with a nice piece of streaked bacon, of about two pounds in weight, boiled and served surrounded with greens or turnip tops if in season. For the different modes of dressing the remainder see the Entrees, Kitchen at Home. No. 27. Loin of Veal. Procure one with plenty of fat and a nice kidney in it, cut off the chump, take away the rib-bone at the other extremity, and fasten the flap over the kidney with a skewer, run a spit through lengthwise (not too thick a one), commencing at the thickest end, and fixing it at the other extremity with a hold-fast, tie it up in a sheet of oiled paper; if weigh- ing fourteen pounds it will require two hours and a quarter to roast, serve with sauce and tongue, or bacon, as in the last, upon a separate dish. At home I usually content myself with tbe chump as taken from the loin, either roasting or boiling it, should it weigh four pounds it would require an hour roasting, or an hour and a quarter boiling ; if roasted, serve with bacon and the same sauce as for the fillet, but if boiled I make half the quantity of sauce as for boiled leg of mutton, but omitting the capers, and adding a spoonful of roughly chopped fresh green parsley. Dress the remains the second day as directed in the Entrees, Kitchen at Home. No. 28. Breast of Veal. Procure a nice breast of veal, which trim as directed (No. 456), stuff the interior with a long roll of stufllng (No. 127), roll the flaps over and sew it up with a trussing needle and string, place it upon a spit, running it through lengthwise, and roast one hour and a quarter as directed for the loin, serve with the same sauce, and bacon and greens se- parate. The breast of veal stewed is also good, but for the details, I must refer to the Removes in the first part of this work. At home I stew them, and add a few heads of celery with the stock it is stewing in, which I after-