KITCHEN AT HOME. ^81 No 163. Sweetbreads. I never can procure sweetbreads at home except in the' axitumn or winter season of the year, so manyfamihes being then out of town th^yniaybe procured at a very reasonable price; I "^f ly/^^ss them thus : lay them in water three or four hours to disgorge blanch two minutes in boilhig water, take out and put them into another stewpan, with TL shces of onions, carrot, turnip, a little parsley, thyme, bay-leaf six peppercorns, a blade of mace, and a small piece of bacon, cover over with a ittle broth if any, place over the fire, and let boil about twenty minutes, then take out, dry them on a cloth, egg all over, throw into bread-crumbs, run a skewer through each, tie them to a spit and roast of a nice brown colour before a sharp fire, a quarter of an hour would be sufficient, they might also be browned in a hot oven, or fried in very hot lard or dripping ten minutes, then however, they must be stewed rather longer, serve them with vege- table' garniture of any description, if peas, merely plain boiUng them, putting them in a stewpan, with a little sugar, pepper, salt, and a piece of fresh butter, toss them round over the fire until very hot, pour them into the dish, and dress the sweetbreads over, or serve with French beans dressed also in the same manner, spinach dressed as du-ected (page 43), or merely with the following sauce : put a gill of melted butter into a stewpan, with a spoonful of Harvey or Reading sauce, and a little catsup, boil altogether, and if too thick add a little water. If I cannot meet with heart sweetbreads, I in general satisfy myself with the throats. No. 164. Calf's Liver Stewed, French Fashion. Procure a small- delicate liver, cut twenty pieces of fat bacon, three inches in length and ca quarter of an inch square, season with a httle pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, then with a larding-needle run them into the liver crosswise, put two ounces of butter into a convenient-sized stewpan, with half a pound of lean uncooked ham, keep stirring over a sharp fire until the ham becomes rather brownish, then lay in the liver, cover the stewpan, stir round occa- sionally until the hver has become quite firm and of a brownish colour, then add half a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter of one of pepper, forty button onions, twenty young carrots, (or twenty pieces of old, previously blanched), half a pint of water, a bunch of parsley, with three sprigs of thyme and two bay-leaves, (tied together) four cloves, and a blade of mace, let simmer twenty minutes, then add twenty new potatoes, or old ones cut of the same size, cover the stewpan, and let stew gently until all the vegetables are done, when take out the bunch of herbs, dress the liver upon a dish with the vegetables and ham around it, skim all the fat from the gravy in the stewpan, pour over the vegetables and serve, if any remains it is excellent made hot the next day, or even to be eaten cold. No. 165. Calf's Liver Fried. Cut the liver into slices the eighth of an inch in thickness, dip them in flour, and try them in a saute or frying-pan in which yon have previously fried some slices of streaked bacon, fry the Uver until quite browned and rather crisp, when take out and place it upon a dish with the bacon, pour as much of the fat as possible from the pan, pour in a quarter of a pint of water, when boiling add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, with which you have mixed a teaspoonful of flour, shake the pan round over the fire until becoming rather thickish, season with a little Harvey sauce, catsup, pepper, and salt, if too thick add a little more water, pour over the liver and serve. Or for variation, after the liver is well fried^