646 KITCHEN AT HOME. nine pounds in weight; about half an hour before it is done add a dozen turnips peeled and cut into quarters, when done take it up, dress upou a ?l7o?f?V""'P-! ''T^ P^^' " ^''"^ "P«" knuekle, pour nearly Llf a pm of the liquor it was boiled m over, and serve with caper sauce (No 67) in a boat Observe m boiling any description of meat, fast boiling would not cook It any quicker, but cause it to eat very hard and bad At home I have tried to cook them by placing them in the water whilst boding and when again beginning to boil drawing it to the corner of the fire; It certainly saves a Uttle time, but does not eat so tender as when nut into cold water. I generaUy there mash turnips and serve them separately (1 do not like them plain and watery, although I consider they must be much more wholesome). Place the turnips when boded into a stewpan, add half a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, two ounces of butter with which you have mixed half a tablespoonful of flour, and four tablespoonfuls ot cream or mdk, mix aU weU together over the fire with a wooden spoon. toY caper sauce I mix a tablespoonful of flour with an ounce of butter, and put It m a smallish stewpan, add half a pint of the liquor the mutton was boiled m, stir over the fire until upon the point of boiling, when add a quar- ter of a tablespoon of salt, quarter that quantity of pepper, little grated nut- meg, and a good spoonful of drained pickled capers; then add another ounce of butter, shake round over the fire, and when melted it is finished, I some- times also add a spoonful of haison^ it gives it a rich colour. No. 17. Shoulder of Mutton (boiled). Choose a very tender one, weighing about seven pounds, cut ofi" the knuckle, and boil it as above; one hour and a half would be sufficient. Welsh Mutton.—No. 18. Saddle-back of Welsh Mutton. Trim and truss it as South Down mutton, it will take one hour less roasting ; you may butter twice over. No. 19. Haunch. If weighing twelve pounds roast it an hour and a half as directed (in proportion) for the haunch of mutton, but if deficient of fat rub it over with butter three or foirr times instead of once. No. 20. Saddle. If weighing eight pounds roast it an hour and a quarter. No. 21. Leg. If weighing five pounds roast it an hour. No. 22. Loin. If weighing four pounds roast three quarters of an hour. No. 23. Neck. If weighing three pounds roast it half an liom-. No. 24. Shoulder If weighing four pounds roast it three quarters of an hour. Loin and neck about the same time. No. 25. Lamb is divided into but three principal joints, being the fore- quarter, haunch, and saddle, two joints may be made of each by separating the shoidder from the ribs, the leg from the loin, or dividing the saddle, but they are usually roasted together. To trim the fore-quarter saw off' the chine-bone, and break the rib-bones down the centre, pass two iron skewers from the breast to the back and a lark-spit through lengthwise, fix it upon a larger spit, cover a sheet of buttered paper over the top, and roast an hour and a quarter before a good fire, rubbing butter over, it would be a light gold colour; should the shoulder have been taken off it will only require thi-ee quarters of an hour to roast, serve in a dish with a little gravy under, and mint sauce in a boat. The haunch must be trimmed by cutting off the shank-bone, place it upou a small spit by running the spit in at the extremity of the loin, passing over