32 beneficence which are grutefiil to this hour in the nostrils and to the pulate of orincp and peasui.t Nay, we shrewdly conjecture that Home time-honoured .ecreti stflUwell wUh^^^^^ 01 which the memory has long since perished in their birthplace. Boastful we mav not suller ourselves to be. Bat if M. Soyer ever heard of, or dressed, or hJired preciseW^^^ <'Tn^rr'' T" u^f 'f n "^'^ " ''^'■y '^i^^^'^ °f acquaintances as Lamb-tonsty, we shiiU start instantly from the penultimate habitation of Ultima Thule commonly known as John O Groats House, expressly to test his veracity, and Rratify our vBracity. Perhaps he may think it would not be too polite in us to transmit him the receipt Not for a wilderness of Regenerators! Could we unfold to him the awful legend in con- nexion with It, of which wo are almost the exclusive depositaries, the cap so liRlitly lyina on his brow would be projected upwards to the roof by the instantaneous starting of hii* hair The Lust Minstrel himsell, to whom it was narrated, shook his head when he heard it, and was never known to allude to it again ; in reference to which circumstance, all that the bitterest malice could insinuate was, that if the story had been worth remembering, he was not likely to have forgotten it. " One December midnight, a shriek"—is probably as far as we can now venture to proceed. There are some descendants of the parties, whose feelings, even alter the lapse of five hundred years, which is but as yesterday in a Highlander's genealogj-, we are bound to respect. In other five hundred years, we shall, with more safety to our- selves, let them " sup full of horrors." 'The Gastronomic Regenerator'reminds us of no book so much as the Despatches of Arthur Duke of Wellington. The orders of Soyer emanate from a man with a clear, cool, determined mind—possessing a complete mastery of his weapons and materials, and prompt to make them available for meeting every contingency—singularly fertile in conceiving, and fortunate without a check in executing, sudden, rapid, and diflficult combinations—overlook- ing nothing with his eagle eye, and, by the powerful felicity of his resources, making the most of everything—matchless in his " Hors-d'oeuvres"—unassailable in his " Removes''— impregnable in his " Pieces de resistance"—and unconquerable with his " Flanks." His directions are lucid, precise, brief, and unmistakable. There is not a word in them super- fluous—or off the matter immediately on hand—or not directly to the point. They are not the dreams of a visionary theorist and enthusiast, but the hard, solid, real results of the vast experience of a tried veteran, who has personally superintended or executed all the operations of which he writes. It may be matter of dispute whether Wellington or Soyer acquired their knowledge in the face of the hotter fire. They are both great Chiefs—whose mental and intellectual faculties have a wonderful similarity—and whose sayings and doings are characterized by an astonishing resemblance in nerve, perspicuity, vigour, and success. In one respect M. Soyer has an advantage over his illustrious contemporary. His Despatches are addressed to an army which as far outnumbers any force ever commanded or handled by the Hero of Waterloo, as the stars in the blue empyrean exceed the gas-lamps of London—an army which, instead of diminishing under any circumstances, evinces a ten- dency, we i'ear, of steadily swelling its ranks year by year, and day by day—a standing army, which the sirong hand of the most jealous republicanism cannot suppress, and which the realiziition of the bright chimera of universal peace will fail to disband. Before many months are gone, thousands and tens of thousands will be marching and countermarching, cutting and skewering, broiling and freezing, in blind obedience to the commands of the Regenerator. " Peace hath her victories no less than those of war." But it is not to be forgotten that if the sword of Welington had not restored and confirmed the tranquillity of the worid, the carving-knife of Soyer might not have been so bright. The confidence of Soyer in his own handiwork is not the arrogant presumption of vanity, but the calm self-reliance of genius. There is a deal of good sense in the paragraph which we now quote. (See p. xi.) It seems a childish remark to make, that all salts do not coincide in their saUness, nor sugars in their sweetness. The principle, however, which the observation contains within it, is anything but childish. It implies that, supposing the accuracy of a Soyer to be nearly infallible, the faith in his instructions must never be so Implicit as to supersede the testimony of one's own sentes, and the admonitions of one's own judgment. It is with the most poignant recollections that we acknov\ledge the justice of the Regenerator's caution on this head We once, with a friend who shared our martyrdom, tried to make onion soup m exact conformity with what was set down in an Oracle of Cookery, which a foul mischance had i.laced across our path. With unerring but unreflecting fidelity, we filled, and mixed, and stirred, and wr.tched the fatal caldron. The result was to the eye inexpressibly alarm- inc- A thick oily fluid, repulsive in colour, but infinitely more so in smell, lell with a flabby, heavy, lazy stream into the soup-plate. Having swallowed, wilh a Laocoonic con- tortion of countenance, two or three mouthfuls, our individual eyes wandered stea thily towards our neighbour. Evidently we were fellow-suflerers; but pride, which has oc- ca^oned so many lamentable catastrophes, made us both dumb and obdurate in our agony.