KITCHEN AT HOME. 645 back of Welsh mutton or lamb will make a very fine Remove. To carve commeLrbfpassing your knife down the back where nothing but the meat SdS holds it together, and from thence crosswise to the flap, serving a cutlet and a he. between to each person, continuing the same way through S sadZ you will thus carve the meat according to the Pr^^^^^^^ fresh hot gravy for each person as you proceed carving. Should any lemam it is fit either to be sent cold to table or dressed otherwise advantageously. No 11 Saddle of Mutton. Procure a fine saddle of mutton about foin-te'en pounds in weight, that has been kept some time take off the skm wXa knife, and skewer the flaps under, run a lark-spit through the spinal maiTow-bone, which spit affk to a larger one, and place down p roast as di- rected for the saddle-back ; it will require about an hour and three quarters roasting, and must be cai-ved as in the last. No 12. Leg of Mutton. A leg weighing eight pounds would take about an hour and a half roasting ; run the spit in under the thigh-bone and biing it out at the knuckle, roast it as described for the haunch, and send to table with a frill upon the knuckle. , t i n • • • When I have a leg of mutton to roast in my kitchen I make a small incision at the knuckle two or three days before roasting, in which I put two or three cloves of garhc, it will give the mutton a fine and peculiar flavour, not at aU resembhng the strong, and to some objectionable, flavour of garhc. I fre- quently serve it with haricot beans under it, dressed as directed (No. 1094). No. 13. Shoulder of Mutton of seven or eight pounds weight will re- quire about one hour roasting; run the spit in at the flap and bring it out at the knuckle, observe the same directions as before, not basting, but merely rubbing it over with the butter. No. 14. Loin of Mutton. A loin weighing six pounds would require an hour to roast; take off all the skin with a knife, and separate the joints with a chopper, not cutting through the fillet; run a lark-spit through from one extremity to the other and aflfix it to a larger spit, observe the same directions in roasting as for the haunch. This is a very favorite dish of mine at home, where I in general joint it with a meat-saw so as to enable me to carve it into thin slanting chops, which look so much more inviting in the plate than those huge pieces which are generally carved. No. 15. Neck of Mutton. Tliis I call a very recherche Uttle joint when well kept; it must be nicely trimmed, sawing through the bones at the tips of the ribs, which detach from the meat, folding the flap over; saw off the chine-bone, and with a knife detach the remainder of the bone from the flllet, detach the skin from the upper part, fix the fiap under with a couple of skewers, run a long fiat iron skewer through the centre, from one extremity to the other, fix it to a larger spit, roast (if weighing five pounds) nearly three quarters of an hour, observing the same directions as before, carve it cross- wise, cutting it in cotelettes, one of which, with a bone, serve to each guest. No. 16. Boiled Leg of Mutton. Cut the knuckle from a leg of mutton which has been hung some time, put into an oval braising-pan well covered with cold water, in which you have put two ounces of salt, place it upon a sharp fire until boiling, when skim well, and place it upon the corner of the fire to simmer about two hours, that is if the leg does not exceed more than