KITCHEN AT HOME. 662 bon; blanch about twenty small sprigs of parsley in boiling water ten minutes, dram and put them m the sauce, which pour over the fish and serve. Perch may also be served plain boiled or stewed as directed for tench, with sauce served separate. No. 86. Eels Fried, Cut your eels into pieces three inches long, dip the pieces into flour, egg over with a paste brush, and throw them into some bread-crumbs; fry in hot lard as directed for fried soles (p. 114). _ No. 87. Stewed Eels, Sauce Matelote. Procure as large eels as pos- sible, which cut into pieces three inches long, and put them into a stewpan with an onion, two bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme and parsley, six cloves, a blade of mace, a glass of sheiTy, and two of water; place the stewpan over a moderate fire, and let simmer about twenty minutes, or according to the size of the eels; when done drain upon a cloth, dress them in pyramid upon a dish without a napkin, with a matelote sauce over, made as directed for salmon sauce matelote (No. 57) but using the stock your eels have been cooked in to make the sauce, having previously well boiled it to extract all the fat. No. 88. Gudgeons are floured, egged, bread-crumbed, or sumply floured, and fried as directed for smelts; but being smaller, they require less time to cook. No. 89. Escaloped Oysteus. Put two dozen of oysters with their liquor into a stewpan, place over a fire, and when a little firm drain them upon a sieve, catching the liquor in another stewpan; detach the beard from the oysters, and throw them again into their liquor; add half a blade of mace, place again upon the fire, and when boiling add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, with which you have mixed a teaspoonful of flour; shake round over the fire until becoming very thick, season with a little cayenne, and salt if required, have an escalop shell, well buttered and bread-crumbed, place the oysters in, sprinkle bread-crumbs over, put it in the oven a quarter of an hour, pass the salamander over, and serve. No. 90. STEVfED Oysters. Blanch and beard the oysters as above, when done, put them with their Uquor in a stewpan, with four cloves, a blade of mace, and a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, with a little chopped parsley and cayenne ; let simmer a minute, stir in two pats of butter, with which you have mixed half a teaspoonful of flour, let simmer a little longer, lay the oysters in your dish upon a piece of toast, and sauce over. No. 91. Gratin of Lobsters. Procure a good-sized lobster, cut it in halves, detaching the head from the body, take out all the meat, and save the four shells ; cut the meat into dice, then take a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots in a stewpan, with a piece of butter the size of two walnuts, pass them a few minutes over a fire, add a tablespoonful of flour (mix well in), half a pint of milk, stir over the fire, boiling about five minutes, then add the lobster, which season with a little cayenne, salt, chopped parsley, and essence of anchovies; stand it again upon the fire, stirring until boihng, then stir in the yolk of an egg; take off" the fire, fill the shells of the lobster, sprinkle