705 KITCHEN AT HOME. six ounces of powdered sugar and a little grated nutmeg, mix the whole weU Z"S^-,\Jo ready, well buttered, a pudding-cLsh, into which pour the mCxture, and baJce in a moderate oven until set; serve hot. No 255 Rice Pudding. WeU wash six ounces of CaroUna rice in one or two waters, drain and dry it upon a cloth, and put it into a stewpan with a Dint and a half of cold miUc and a quarter of a pound of butter, place the stewpan over a moderate fire, aUowing its contents to simmer very gently until the rice becomes quite tender, when add six whole eggs weU whipped, six ounces of sugar, and a httle grated nutmeg; pour into a buttered pudding- dish, and bake in a moderate oven until set and nicely coloured; serve hot as ^^Sa^o, tapioca, semouHna, and vermicelli puddings are made very similar to the last, and served the same; they may of course be flavoured with lemon, any description of spice, approved of, or a couple of glasses of brandy, rum, noyeau, maresquino, or almost any description of wine, spirits, or hqueurs. No. 256. Macaroni Pudding. Have half a pound of macaroni, which boil in half a gallon of water untd becoming tender, when di-ain it upon a sieve ; have ready boiUng in a stewpan half a pint of milk, in which put the macai-oni (having previously cut it into pieces an inch in length), with a quarter of a pound of butter and the rind of a lemon free from pith tied in a a bunch; let simmer gently about twenty minutes, when take out the lemon- peel, and add six whole eggs, well whisked, with six ounces of sugar; have ready a pudding-dish weU buttered, into which pour the above preparation ; bake and serve as before. No. 257. Gateau OF Rice. Well wash half a pound of Carolina rice, which well drain and put into a stewpan with a quart of milk, a quarter of a pound of butter, and a few sticks of cinnamon; let simmer over a slow fire until the rice is veiy tender and the whole becoming thickish, when take out the pieces of cinnamon; add six ounces of powdered sugar and eight whole eggs, stir in quickly over the fire until becoming again thickish, when have ready a plain oval mould, well butter the interior, lay a sheet of buttered paper at the bottom, pour in the above, filling the mould to within three quarters of an inch from the rim, and place in a moderate oven, where let remain until set quite firm, when take from the oven, turn out of your mould upon a dish, and serve quite hot with a sauce over, as dii-ected for cabinet pudding. Gateaux of macaroni, vermicelli, &c., may also be made by the above direc- tions, preparing them as for pudding, but making the mixture as directed for the rice. No. 258. Fruit Puddings. As almost every description of fruit pudding is made in the same manner, I consider it would be entirely useless to enter into their details, so shall here content myself with merely giving a description of the apple pudding, which, although one of the most common, is in my opinion one of the best. Put a pound of flour upon your pastry slab, with which mix half a pound of beef suet, well shred and finely chopped, make a hole in the centre, in which pour nearly half a pint of water, mixing the flour and suet in by aegrees, and shaking the whole hghtly together, then take two thirds, which 45