KITCHEN AT HOME. G63 bread-crumbs over, put them into the oven '-^bout ten rmnutes t^^ top re- quiring to be browned; serve upon a napkin garnished with parsley. SIMPLE HORS-d'cEUVBES. No 92 Rissoles of Oysters. Prepare two dozen of blanched oysters as directed for escaloped oysters, but cutting each oyster into six pieces, turn it out upon a dish, where leave it until quite cold; then have the trimmings of some piitF paste,* which roll very thia; put some of the oysters upon it in pieces the size of a walnut, fold them over with the paste, which cut out with a round cutter, gi\dng each the shape of a turnover, egg with a paste- brush and throw them into bread-crumbs; cover well, have ready a stew- pan in which there is some veiy hot lard or white diupping (as for frying fish), in which fry your rissoles of a light brown colour; dress upon a napkin in a plate, garnish with fried parsley, and serve to be handed round the table. No. 93. Rissoles of Lamb. Cut up about a pound of cooked lamb (the remains of a previous day) into very small dice, with a quarter of a pound of lean cooked ham, then put a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots in a stewpan, with a piece of butter the size of a nut, pass them over the fire a couple of minutes, then stir in a teaspoonful of flour, after which add nearly half a pint of melted butter and the meat, stir it over the fire until it boUs, season well with a little pepper and salt, and stir in the yolks of a couple of eggs, put it out upon a dish till cold, and proceed as directed in the last article. The flesh of any poultry or game may be used exactly the same. No. 94. Rocambole, or Crouuettes of Meat, Game, or Poultry. Make a preparation as above with some description of cold cooked meat, or poultry; when cold divide it into pieces each rather larger than a walnut, roU them to about two inches and a half in length, have three eggs in a basin well whisked, into which dip them, throw them into bread-crumbs, take them out well covered, and smooth them by gently patting them with a knife, then dip them into clarified butter, and again into bread-crumbs, smooth them again, and fry them of a Kght colour in a stewpan of hot lard, and serve precisely the same as for rissoles. No. 95. Lamb's Fry. See the other department of this work, page 312 ; nothing can be more simplified. remotes simplified. No. 96. Stewed Rump of Beef. Choose a small rump of beef, cut it away from the bone, cut about twenty long pieces of fat bacon, which run through the flesh in a slanting direction, tlien chop up the bone, place it at the bottom of a large stewpan, with six cloves, three onions, one carrot, a turnip, head of celery, a leek, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, then lay in the rump (previously tying it up with string), which just cover with water, add a good handful of salt and two burnt onions, place upon the fire, and when boiling stand it at the corner, let simmer nearly four hours, keeping it skimmed ; when done pass part of the * The receipts for paste bemg so simple in the other department of this book, I siiaLl upon all occasions refer my readers to them (p. 478).