KITCHEN AT HOME. G58 of tlie fish as above, drain and dress them upon a dish without a napkin, Llanch three dozen oysters by putting them into a stewpan with their juice upon the fire, move them round occasionally, do not let them boil, as soon as they become a little firm place a sieve over a basin, pour in the oysters, beard and throw them again into their Uquor, put them into a stewpan ; when boiling add four cloves, half a blade of mace, six peppercorns, and two ounces of butter, to which you have added half a tablespoonful of flour, breaking it into small pieces, stir well together, when boiling season with a little salt, cayenne pepper, and essence of anchovies, finish with a gill of cream, or milk, and sauce over. The remains of this fish may be taken from the bone and placed upon a dish, with a little of the above sauce (to which you have added the yolks of two eggs) over, sprinkle over with bread-crumbs, and place it twenty minutes in a hot oven till the bread-crumbs become brown. For Salt fish see page 122 in the other department of this work. No. 60. Haddocks. (See pages 308, 309, 310). No. 61. Baked Haddocks. (Seepage 129). No. 62. Soles, Fried. (See page 114). No. 63. Soles, the Jewish Fashion. Trim the fish well, dip it into a couple of eggs, well beaten, put six tablespoonfuls of salad oil in a saute- pan, place it over the fire, and when quite hot put in your sole, let remain five minutes, turn over, and fry upon the other side, ten or twelve minutes wiU cook it, according to the size; serve upon a napkin without sauce; they are excellent cold. \ No. 64. Sole a la Meunieke. (See page 115, in the other department of this work). No. 65. Sole aux Fines Hekbes. Put a spoonful of chopped eschalots into a saute-pan, with a glass of sherry and an ounce of butter, place the sole over, pom* nearly half a pint of melted butter over it, ivpon which sprinkle some chopped parsley, place it in a moderate oven for half an hour, take the sole out of the pan, dress upon a dish without a napkin, reduce the sauce that is in the pan over a sharp fire, add a httle Harvey sauce and essence of anchovy, pour over the sole, and serve them with a httle flour and butter. No. 66. Fbied Whiting. The whiting requires to be skinned and the tail turned round and fixed into the mouth, dip it first into flour, then egg over and dip it into bread-crumbs, fry as directed for the sole ; for whiting aux fines herbes proceed as directed for sole aux fines herbes. At home I prefer the whiting fried with their skins on, merely dipping them in flour. No. 67. Whiting au Gratin. Put a good spoonful of chopped onions upon a strong earthen dish, with a glass of wine, season the whitings with a little pepper and salt, put it in the dish, sprinkle some chopped parsley and chopped mushrooms over, and pour over half a pint of aucho^7 sauce (page 32), over which sprinkle some brown bread-crumbs, grated from the crust of bread, place it in a warm oven half an hour; it requkes to be nicely browned; serve upon the dish you have cooked it in.