BOUQUET DE GIBIER. XXXIU OLIVE-BEANCH BETWEEN FRANCE AND ENGLAND. A present extraordinary to the King and Queen of the French was forwarded from London to Paris on the 21st of December by the well- known Gastronomic Regenerator, M. Soyer, of the Reform Club, and was presented to their Majesties on the 24th, in the morning, at the Palace of the TuUeries. Their Majesties were so delighted with the novelty and elegance of the composition, that after a long examination the King ordered it to be carried to the apartments of her Majesty the Queen of the Belgians, who was exceedingly pleased with it, and after- wards the whole of the royal family was summoned to see this bouquet; the sight was so new and unexpected that it met with their unanimous approbation. His Majesty then observed that such a welcome and graceful present from a foreign country had never before penetrated through France to the palace of its kings. Immediately after, by the orders of his Majesty, the sporting nosegay was carried by two gen- tlemen porters to the council of ministers then sitting at the Tuileries, and was admired by every one. It is reported that his Majesty intends to have a similar bouquet carved in wood for ornamenting the grand sideboard of the magnificent banqueting hall of the palace. To give an idea of the composition of this splendid innovation, the following description perhaps will be interesting to the public. The length of it was about ten feet, and wide in proportion. The frame was richly covered with Christmas holly, laurels, mistletoe, and evergreen, with a great variety of winter flowers. There were twenty-two heads of game, consisting of larks, snipes, woodcocks, black peweets, teal, French and English partridges, grouse, widgeons, wild ducks, black cocks, pheasants, a leveret, a hare, and golden plovers; the interstices were lightly filled with wheat and oats, the whole ornamented with tri- coloured ribands and small flags at the top—and to give a still more pleasing efi^ect, fancy birds of beautiful plumage, so abundant in Jingland, were spread in every part of this magnificent nosepay. The foUowing letter from his Majesty the King of the French ac- companied with a beautiful pin. forming a bouquet of diamonds and pearls, was sent by his Majesty's orders to the French Ambassador, and torwarded to Monsieur Soyer at the Reform Club. Cabinet du Eoi, Chateau des Tuileries ; 1847. MONSIEUB, .1. r w \^ ^ ""^^^ ^''^''^ °™Se sur Part culinah-e, et le groupe de Gibier dont vous lui avez fait hommage. giuupe Je suis charge. Monsieur, de vous transmettre les remercie- ments de sa Majeste pour cette double attention, et d'y joindie comme remeir'' -tisfaction, le bijou que je m'e^iresse de ^^s Recevez je vous prie. Monsieur, mes plus parfaites saluta- Le Secretaire du Cabinet, Monsieur Alexis Soyer CAMILLE FAIN. {Globe) tions.