17 •* During the last ten months, I had to furnish 25,000 dinuers for the gentlemen of the Reform Club, and 3S dinner parties of importance, comprising above 70,000 dishe.*, and to provide daily for 60 servants of the establishment, independent of about 15,000 visitors wlio have seen the kitchen department in that lapse of time.'' The result of that experience we have in (his volume. He gives us bills of fare for parties of all sizes, from a coronation banquet to a bachelor's snug party in chambers. He also gives us plans of kitchens of all sizes, from the magnificent gastronomical laboratory of the Kefuim Club to my " Kitchen at Home," which is suited to the means and requirements of the solitary bachelor. Let all those who are tired of the eternal roast and boiled, alter- nating with chop and steak—who think that mutton broth is ^not the only potage in the world^—that there are methods of dressing fish other than plain boiling and frying, and other sauces than melted butter—purchase M. Soyer's book. They will find that it is indeed that which it professes itself to be'—a Gastronomic Regenerator. BX.ACKWOOD'S TaAGAZlNS. Cookerxi and Civilization, It is only after passing through an ordeal cruelly insidious, tolerably severe, and rath«!r protracted, that we I'eel conscientiously entitled to assert our ability to dine every day of every week at the Reform Club, without jeopardy to those im- mutable principles which are incorruptible by Whigs and indestructible by Rats. A -ineer, perhaps, is curling with "beautiful disdiiin" the lips of some Conservative Achilles. Let us nip his complacent sense of invulnerability in the bud. To eat and to err are equally attri- butes of humanity. Looking at ourselves in the mirror of honest criticism, we behold features as unchangeable as sublunary vicissitudes will allow. " Time writes no wrinkles on our azure brow." Witness It! ye many years of wondrous alternation—of lurid tempest and sunny calm—of disastrous rout and triumphant procession—of shouting paean and wailing dirge—witness the imperturbable tenor of our way ! Attest it, thou goodly array of the tomes of Maga, laden and sparkling, now as ever, with wisdom and wit, science and fancy ! —attest the unwavering fidelity of our career! All this is very true; but the secret annals of the good can never be free from temptations, and never are in reality unblotted by peccadilloes. The fury of the demagogue has been our laughing-stock—the versatility of trimming politicians, our scorn. We have crouched before none of the powers which have been, or be ; neither have we been carried oil" our feet by the whirlwinds of popular passion. Yet it is difficult to resist a good dinner. The victories of IMiltiades robbed Themistocles of sleep. The triumphs of Soyer are apt to affect us, " with a ditterence," after the same fashion. There was, we remember, a spirit of surly independence within us on visiting, for the first time, the " high capital" of Whiggery, where the Tall at present, " New rubb'd with balm, expatiate and confer * Their state affairs." To admire anything was not our mood: " The ascending pile Stood fix'd her stately heighth ; and straight the doors. Opening their brazen folds, discover, wide Within, her ample spaces, o'er the smooth And level pavement." And as these lines suggested themselves, we recollected who the first Whig is said to have Ijeen, and whose architectural glgries Milton was recording. We never yet heard a Radical disparage a peer ol the realm without being convinced, that deep in the pocket, next his heart, lay an mcautious hospitable invitation from the noble lord, to which a precipitate answer in the affirmative had already been dispatched. Analogously, in the n airni icent Hn'unmitk:.b 7' gingerly, it seemed to'us that TSey ed an unmistakable monument of an innate predilection for the splendours and comforts the IZIT T:£rf:i:f^'' -proud aristocracy.- This was b'efore dinner^;Twe Ve ^ hungry, 1 o tell all that happened to us lor some hours afterwards, would, in fact force us SuL"p1"; ° °" if r T'^ ^l^"" '^'^'f °f ^hich is prompting these observations Suffice ,t to say, that when we again stood on Pall-Mail, a bland philanthropy of sentiment' embn.c ng ml races, and classes, and sects of men, permeated our bosom. Whence came Nnr^f rr'?l'""'"8 ^^''^ l"'™' custom is, very innocent of wine ? Nor could ,t be the seductive eloquence of the company. We hud iIph roZ^^^^ vituperated ,n argument by the Liberator. Oh, yes ! but we had been f;d by the Re.ener "to/ To us, then, on these things much meditating-so Cicero and Brougram lov5 to wri e-