SPINA BIFIDA 285 The needle is introduced first and, if the sac is tense, a small quantity (not more than a third of its contents) should be drawn off; if there is no marked tension in the sac it is unnecessary to draw off any of the fluid. The syringe is now fitted to the needle, and a quantity of Morton's fluid, varying from fifteen drops to a drachm according to the size of the tumour, is slowly injected. As the needle is withdrawn, the puncture is pinched up and closed with a small collodion dressing. After-treatment.—After the injection the child should be kept on its face or side for a few hours until the puncture has closed, so as to avoid the escape of cerebro-spinal fluid. In the course of a few hours, however, the child may be turned over and kept lying on its back. The tumour should be protected from friction and pressure by cotton-wool or a moulded shield. The first effect of the injection is irritation, pain, increase in size of the sac, and eleva- tion of temperature ; if benefit follows, the sac will become thickened, the fluctua- tion less evident, and the translucency diminished. It is usually necessary to repeat the injection several times before a complete cure is obtained; this may be done at intervals of about a fortnight. Cases suitable for injection.—Children who have been cured of spina bifida not infrequently become the subjects of fatal hydrocephalus. Hence it is never advisable to inject a spina bifida so long as the child is doing well and the sac is not threatening to burst ; moreover, the older the child the better it stands the injection. We should say that the only cases really suited for Morton's injection are those of simple meningocele in very young children, in which the tumour is rapidly increasing, and also those cases of ulcerating spina bifida in which excision is out of the question and perforation is imminent. 2. Excision.—In performing excision, the redundant meningeal structures and skin are removed, the nerve elements, if present, separated from the sac wall and replaced in the vertebral canal, and the skin and meninges carefully sutured over the defect. An attempt should also be made to restore the bony roof of the spinal canal, so as to prevent, on the one hand, the possibility of recurrence and, on the other, the risk of injury to the cord in later life. At the present time this operation has Fig. 112.—Spina Bifida cured by Iodine Injecions. a, The arachnoid; c, the dura mater ; b, the thickened skin and sac-wall; d, the nerves ; e, the thickened arachnoid. (Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons.)