265 SPRAINS relieved by the application oi fomentations to the seat of injury ; usually aspirin or some narcotic, such as chloral or bromide of potassium, will be required for the first night or two. In injuries about the lumbar spine the urine should be examined for blood, as the kidney may have been contused ; if there is h;ematuria, special treatment for the arrest of the bleeding will be called for. Rest, however, must not be prolonged too long, otherwise the condition may become chronic. Massage should be carried out almost from the first, for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes at a time ; for four or five days it should consist of gentle rubbing in the upward direction, and, if the injury is severe, it can be done without turning the patient over. After the first week, the massage should be more vigorous and should be applied for a longer time, and it is well to follow it with some stinnilating liniment, such as linimentum terebinthinse aceticum or the following :—- Under this treatment the symptoms will usually subside in the course of two or three weeks, but active movement should be restricted until recovery is practically complete. When the patient first gets about, he will find great relief from wearing a firm binder round the loins, or strapping if massage is not being carried out. (b) In Long-standing cases.—When the patient is not seen until some time after the accident, and pain is still present on movement, there is probably chronic inflammation of the damaged structures with adhesions. When there is much pain and tenderness it may be well to commence the treatment with counter-irritation, by means of blisters or the cautery (see Vol. I. p. 19), the patient being kept in bed for the time. After a week or two, however, this may be given up and massage and other methods employed. The massage should be more vigorous than in the recent cases and should specially aim at breaking up the adhesions and freeing the muscles. In addition, douching the spine with hot and cold water alternately, or hot-air baths, are very useful. When the case proves obstinate, great benefit is often obtained by giving the patient gas and forcibly moving the spine so as to break down adhesions, in the same way that adhesions in joints are treated. This should be followed by active and passive movements repeated two or three times a day the patient wearing ooly a light garment on the trunk ; at first they should be done under the supervision of the medical attendant or a competent masseur, who should instruct the patient as to the exercises which are most suitable. Vibratory massage may also be very useful and in the intervals between the treatments a firm bandage should be applied to the spine. In some cases cataphoresis of iodide of potassium or carbonate of soda is of value. E Menthol Lin. belladonnas'^ Lin. camph. co. J aa 5 ss. 3ss.