FRACTURES OF THE VAULT OF THE SKULL 347 Arrest of bleeding.—Special attention must be paid to the arrest of haemorrliage from the meningeal vessels ; in some cases this is much more important and difficult than the treatment of the depressed frag- ments. Any blood-clot between the dura mater and the bone must be cleared away and active bleeding looked for. If blood wells vip from the depths of the wound, an attempt must be made to arrest it, and this will usually entail the removal of further portions of the bone ; this is most easily and rapidly done with a pair of strong Hoffman's forceps. The case at this stage very closely resembles one of extra-dural haemorrhage after the clot has been turned out, and the further steps necessary to arrest the bleeding are identical (see Chap. XXXH.). The replacement of the bone.—After having arrested the bleeding, the surgeon attends to the closure of the wound, and one of the chief ques- tions is whether the portions of bone which have been removed should be replaced or not. That these fragments will unite and fill up the gap in the skull, provided they are kept aseptic, is amply proved, and apparently union occurs equally well whether the circle removed by the trephine is replaced entire or whether it is first broken up into smaller fragments. It is perhaps best on the whole to break up the fragments into smaller pieces, but they should not be cut up too small. In cases of meningeal haemorrhage the brain may not expand immediately if the bleeding has gone on for any time, and unless it does, the bone will not have a proper substratum to rest upon. Hence the question depends to a considerable extent upon the expansion of the brain ; if the dura mater bulges into the opening in the skull, the portions of bone may be replaced. The replacement of the bone is even more important when the dura mater has been lacerated and cannot be closed, because in these circumstances, the replaced bone may help to form an obstacle to the protrusion of the brain. When the dura mater has been torn, the cerebral cortex is very apt to become adherent to the edge of the dura mater or to the bone itself, and these adhesions are known to be a potent cause of epilepsy or even of certain forms of insanity. With the object of avoiding such a complication, various substances have been placed between the brain and the skull. Lister's protective, sheet rubber, and other materials have been used. The best seems to be thin gold-foil, which is placed over the surface of the brain beneath the dura mater extending beyond the torn edges of the latter for a quarter of an inch or more. The problem, however, does not seem to have been satisfactorily solved yet. The bone is not replaced when gold-foil is used. The flap may be stitched down with a continuous suture and in most cases it is not necessary to put in a drainage tube ; if, however, there is much oozing from the cut surfaces of the bones, it will be advisable to insert one beneath the flap for twenty-four hours. As a rule it is better not to use a drain unless there is a risk of bleeding to such a degree as to reproduce the symptoms of compression.