AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 86 by high fever and local inflammation within forty-eight hours ; should the ordinary aseptic pyrexia subside in forty-eight hours, and should no local inflammation supervene, it may be confidently assumed that sepsis has been avoided, and the number and size of the drainage tubes may be reduced. A day or two later all the drainage tubes may be removed with the exception of a moderate-sized one which should be left for two days longer, when it also may be left out if all goes well. Daily dressings are necessary, and at each dressing the skin around the wound should be disinfected, and every means taken to avoid septic contamination. The risk of subsequent stiffness is far greater here than in the preceding cases, and therefore passive movements should be practised every time the dressings are changed as soon as all danger of sepsis is over, the wound meanwhile being covered with wet gauze so as to prevent dust being sucked into the joint. When the wound has healed, it may be necessary to give the patient an anaesthetic in order to break down adhesions from time to time (see Chap. XVIII.). If sepsis is avoided, an excellent result will generally be obtained, provided that the after-treatment is carried out with vigour and perseverance. TREATMENT OF SUPPURATING WOUNDS. Wounds of joints in which free suppuration is established may have to be dealt with, either because the surgeon has failed to obtain asepsis in recent cases, or because the case does not come under notice until sepsis is already established. The condition, then, is one of suppurative arthritis, and is of extreme gravity. There is usually violent inflammation of all the structures of the joint, resulting in its complete disorganisation ; the S3movial membrane is intensely congested and swollen, the articular cartilages become destroyed and exfoliate, the bone beneath becomes inflamed and sometimes necrosed, whilst septic osteo-myelitis may occur. The best result that can be hoped for in these cases is recover}^ with anchylosis, which is usually bony, though sometimes a movable joint has been obtained. In the majority of cases, however, very serious con- sequences ensue. Abscesses form around the joint, acute osteo-myelitis extends along one or both of the bones entering into its formation, and septicaemia and pyaemia commonly result. The first question that must arise in treatment in any individual case is whether it is advisable to attempt to save the limb, or whether immediate amputation is not better. The answer depends largely on the condition of the patient and the character of the wound. In an old subject or in one who is feeble or is the subject of albuminuria or some other grave general disease, the best chance is undoubtedly given by amputation. When, however, the patient is young, vigorous, and quite healthy, and particularly when symptoms of pyaemia or osteo-myelitis have not yet supervened, an attempt to save the limb is justifiable. Should the