DISEASES OF THE KNEE-JOINT 211 serious complication, and the chances of recovery are by no means good. In childi'en these sinuses will sometimes heal if the limb is thoroughly immobilised and the patient placed under good hygienic conditions. At the same time healing is rare, and the patient is very apt to go downhill, especially if there be much pain. Apart from fixation and good hygienic conditions, the main point is to try to get the sinuses aseptic and provide free drainage. The treatment of these sinuses has been fully discussed in Vol. II. p. 457. If these methods fail, operation must be resorted to. The operations are arthrectomy or (very occasionally) amputation in children, and excision or amputation in adults. The crucial point in these cases is the presence of sepsis, and special efforts must be made to eradicate it, especially if arthrectomy or excision is to be done. At the commencement of the operation the sinuses should be carefully scraped, after the skin has been thoroughly purified, and a piece of sponge soaked in undiluted carbolic acid should be introduced into each sinus and left there. The orifice of each sinus should then be included in an elliptical incision and its track dissected out. Should the sinuses lie in the line of the ordinary incision they will, of course, be removed during the deepening of the wound. After the synovial membrane has been taken away, it is well to sponge the entire wound with undiluted carbolic acid, which is allowed to act for about five minutes and is then washed away with i in 2000 sublimate solution. No symptoms of carbolic acid poisoning need be feared. Drainage tubes must be used. When the general condition is bad, amputation through the lower third of the thigh is the best treatment, especially in adults; the patient recovers at once, there is much less shock, and little fear of recurrence. Treatment of the fourth stage.—When recovery is taking place with anchylosis of the joint in a faulty position, the treatment consists essentially in rectifying the deformity. If the union is fibrous and comparatively shght, continued extension may be tried with the view of bringing the limb straight, but this is rarely successful, because the adhesions in the joint are generally accompanied by marked shrinking of the ligaments and shortening of the muscles in the neigh- bourhood. If extension is to be employed, it is well to divide these structures in the first instance, and the weight should be gradually increased. In the great majority of cases, however, some more extensive operation will be necessary. In a child.—In children, when there is only fibrous anchylosis and the disease is still active, arthrectomy should be performed if extension fails to bring the limb into proper position. This allows free access to the various ligaments about the joint, which can be divided and the limb brought into proper position. When no active disease is present, and the union is too firm for extension to have any