145 RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS a pack 1 for fifteen minutes, the patient drinking ten ounces of mineral water while in the pack. If the patient be weakly, however, or suffer from some cardiac lesion, I should order instead of the deep bath a reclining batJi at the same temperature and for the same time, also followed by the pack. ' The next bath would be taken on the second day after the first—■ that is to say, with one day's interval ; and I should most probably order at this time a douche at 100° F., to be used during the last ten minutes while the patient is in the bath, and to be specially directed against the painful, swollen, or stiff joints. After another two baths, taken every other day, I should increase the temperature to gg° or 100° F., and the douche up to 103° F. If I found the sweating excessive and the patient at all weak, the pack would be made lighter and the time diminished. Some cases improve wonderfully under tliese baths alone, but most cases of rheumatoid arthritis require in addition some massage, either dry, which is done at home with or without electricity, or the wet or Aix massage, in which two douches are used, one directing a stream of hot water down the patient's spine in order to keep him warm, and the other so arranged that it plays upon the part while it is being rubbed. Tlie temperature of both douches is usually about 100° F. Fifteen minutes is usually the time for an Aix massage bath, one or two rubbers being employed accord- ing as to whether the whole body or only some of the limbs are to be treated. The massage bath is often followed by a plunge into the swim- ming bath at about 80° F., or the Scottish douche, in which two powerful streams of water, one hot and the other cold, are played alternately up and down the patient's spine. A light pack may or may not be used after the Aix massage, but the usual plan is to pack the patient for a short tmie. ' Other baths used are the vapour bath, where the vapour of water is brought into contact with one or more limbs, at a temperature up to 108° F. or even higher ; another plan is what is termed the dry douche, in which the limb to be douched is enclosed in a bath, the rest of the body being screened off with a mackintosh arrangement, and a strong stream of water gradually warmed up from 98^^ to 103'' F., or even higher, is allowed to play upon it. ' The time of day for taking the baths is immaterial, and patients have to wait tlieir turn during the season, often till late in the afternoon. They drink the water generally twice a day, eight to ten ounces at a time, but many patients cannot take so much as it sometimes causes dyspepsia and often constipation. ' By the deep bath is meant a large bath in which the patient sits or even walks about. Passing into this bath at various levels are pipes through which douches can be directed against any desired part of the body while the patient is in the bath. As regards the pack, after the patient comes out of the bath he is wrapped up in hot towels and a big dressing-gown ; the number of hot towels and the general thickness of the material in which he is swathed is varied according to the strength of the patient. III. L