283 SPINA BIFIDA {b) The size of the defect in the lamince.—This may vary from an opening too small to admit a finger to a wide furrow occupying a considerable portion of the spinal column. There is no constant ratio between the size of the tumour and the defect in the bones. (c) The coverings of the tumotir.—The swelling is sometimes covered by normal skin ; more commonly it is only surrounded by normal skin at the periphery. Towards the centre the wall is thin, mem- branous, and translucent, the skin being either very imperfectly developed or entirely absent, and its place being taken by a thin cicatrix. The area uncovered by skin is frequently ulcerating, and sloughy patches or perforations, through which the cerebro-spinal fluid escapes, are sometimes present. (d) The contents of the sac.—A point of the very greatest impor- tance is whether ner\'e elements are present in the sac and adherent to its wall. When they are absent, the tumour is translucent in all directions ; when present, they throw a shadow on transillumination, and their distri- bution and character may often be made out very distinctly, especially when the covering of the sac is membranous. Too much reliance, however, must not be placed on the absence of a shadow as indicating absence of nerves, for in some cases no satisfactory shadow is cast, although nerves are present. The presence of nerves in the sac is also often denoted by a depression in the centre of the tumour, or by a median vertical furrow corresponding to the attachment of the cord to the wall of the sac. (e) Malformations and paralyses.—In the great majoi'itj^ of cases other congenital malformations are also present, the most conmion being talipes calcaneus, or paralj^tic conditions such as want of control over the sphincters, the urine and faeces being continually voided, or loss of sensation and motion in the lower extremities ; trophic ulcerations occur in connection with these paralyses. Hydrocephalus is a frequent accompaniment of the disease, and not uncommonly follows attempts at a cure. Very few children who are the subjects of spina bifida reach adult life. Death usually occurs in the early weeks of life from marasmus, convul- sions, and septic troubles consequent upon the ulceration and rupture of the thin membranous sac, or, at a subsequent period, from hydrocephalus. As a rule in those who reach maturity the tumour is covered with healthy skin and contains no nerve elements. TREATMENT.—The treatment of spina bifida may be eitlier palliative or radical. Palliative Treatment.—The first important question is, whether operative or palliative measures should be adopted. The latter should be employed in all cases when operation is refused, when the child is obviously so feeble that surgical interference is not warranted, when the opening into the spinal canal is very extensive, or when the tumour is small and covered with healthy skin and there is very