AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD 340 situations where there is a considerable interval between the outer and inner tables, notably over the frontal sinus, or the mastoid process. In the case of the frontal sinus, the anterior wall may be broken or depressed without fracture of the deeper part of the frontal bone. The importance of these fractures mainly depends on whether they are compound or not. When compound, they are naturally prone to become the seat of various septic complications ; fractures of the outer table alone are almost always compound. Treatment.—When there is no external wound —This is the type of injury usually found in the anterior waU of the frontal sinus. Although this fracture is, strictly speaking, compound, that is to say, com- municates with one of the accessory sinuses, and consequently with the nasal cavity, septic infection is not a common complication, and all that is necessary is to keep the patient at rest for a few days and apply an evaporating lotion to the seat of the injury. When there is an external wound.—Here the treatment must be that required for a scalp wound and for a compound fracture. The scalp and the wound in the soft parts must be thoroughly disinfected in the manner already described (see p. 328), after which the surface of the skull is carefully examined, any loose or projecting portions of bone removed and any obviously soiled area gouged or chiselled away. The bone and soft parts are then rubbed over with undiluted carbolic acid and a drainage tube of sufficient size is inserted before putting in the sutures. The dressing should be similar to that employed for scalp wounds, and the drainage tube may be left out if no septic complications occur within three days. FRACTURE OF THE INTERNAL TABLE ALONE. It is only very rarely indeed that the internal table is broken without the external one being simultaneouly fractured, but a few cases of the kind have been put on record. In children there may be a sort of green-stick fracture of the skull in which the internal table gives way as the result of a blow, and the external table is simply bent inwards, thus giving rise to a saucer-like depression of the bone. Under such circumstances there are not necessarily any symptoms, unless an intra-cranial haemorrhage accompanies the injury to the skull. TREATMENT.—Unless the fractured portion of the internal table gives rise to symptoms of cerebral irritation or unless there are signs of compression produced by some co-existing hcemorrhage, the condition may not be recognised. Should these s37mptoms arise, appropriate treatment [vide infra) must be carried out. Usually no symptoms arise if the child is simply put to bed and an ice-bag applied. The bone is elastic and the depression is spontaneously obliterated in a short time ; operation is seldom called for.