i8o AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS the sinuses should first be thoroughly scraped and then sponged with pure carbolic acid, so as to render the wound as aseptic as possible. After the excision the cavity left should also be sponged out with undiluted carbohc acid. For the operation of excision, see p. 182. When the disease has extended on to the pelvis, and when there is much suppuration and the patient is going downhill, amputation of the limb has been advocated so as to obtain free access to the disease in the pelvis. When the amputation is performed (or subsequently if the patient is collapsed), the disease in the pelvis must be dealt with freely. Treatment of the fourth stage.—This includes the cases in which recovery has taken place or is progressing satisfactorily, but in which the limb is in bad position ; the main aim of the treatment is therefore to remedy the deformity. The usual deformities met with are flexion, adduction, and rotation inwards. When there is great flexion, the patient is either unable to put the foot to the ground, or can only do so by pro- ducing extreme lordosis. When the adduction is marked, he finds it necessary to tilt the pelvis upwards on the affected side before the leg can be brought parallel with its fellow, and this produces marked scoliosis, whilst the practical shortening of the limb is greatly increased. In either case the functional disability is seiious. In the cases in which there is still some movement in the joint, the deformity may be overcome by dividing any contracted bands or tendons, particularly the adductors, and by careful employment of force to stretch the adhesions, followed up by extension (see p. 167). The limb should ultimately be brought into the position of abduction, while the rotation and flexion are corrected. The reason for preferring the abducted position is given on p. 174. A certain amount of scoliosis must, of course, result from this abducted position; but, if the patient be strong, it will not be more than is necessary to compensate for the shortening. In the majority of cases, however, the anchylosis is so firm that to overcome the deformity by these means alone it would require an amount of force that might light up the disease afresh. Various operative measures must therefore be considered, the principal being excision of the joint, removal of a wedge of bone from the region of the trochanter so as to enable the limb to come straight, or simple division of the femur below the trochanters. When the disease has passed off completely, Murphy's arthroplasty (see p. 153) may be employed. Of the various operations the most satisfactory, in the majority of cases, are removal of a wedge of bone or osteotomy of the upper part of the femur. Excision of the joint is not to be recommended for the reasons already given (see p. 176). Sometimes however it may be called for when the deformity is very marked, as it may be impossible to get the limb straight by other measures; when excision is done, prolonged after-treatment is necessary in order to get a stable joint. When it is determined to remedy the deformity by the removal of a