2 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS bones ; examples of this are seen in tuberculous disease, osteo-arthritis, Charcot's disease, and arthritis after specific fevers—such as typhoid. Congenital dislocations, which are due either to malformation, to displacement in utero, or to violence at or immediately before birth. We shaU here deal only with traumatic dislocations ; the others are discussed elsewhere. CAUSES.^—Exciting.—A dislocation may be caused by {a) indirect violence, as when a fall upon the hand results in dislocation of the humerus ; (b) direct violence, as when a blow on the point of the shoulder dislocates the clavicle ; (c) traction, as when the head of the radius is dislocated in lifting a child by the hand; or {d) muscular contraction, as in dislocation of the humerus in throwing a ball or playing single-stick. Predisposing^.—In addition there are various predisposing causes. For example : {a) The nature of the joint. Joints such as the shoulder, in which the articular' surfaces are held in apposition mainly by muscular action, the ligaments being lax, are, from their anatomical conformation, more liable to dislocation than well-fitting joints like the elbow, ib) The age of the patient. Dislocation is most common in the young adult. In children, a joint injury is most likely to cause a separation of the epiphysis, while in the old, the bones are more brittle, and fracture is more common than dislocation, (c) The condition of the muscles which surround the joint. If these be wasted from disuse or disease, or if they be taken by surprise, dislocation may be caused by a force that would otherwise do no injury either to bone or joint. TREATMENT.—The treatment of a dislocation may be considered according as it is simple, compound, or of long standing. Any dislocation may be complicated by a fracture in its immediate vicinity or at some distance from it, by severe damage to vessels or nerves near the joint, by pressure on nerves, leading to paralysis, and, in long-standing cases, by adhesion of vessels, nerves, and other tissues to the dislocated arti- cular surfaces. The treatment of these complications will also need consideration. TREATMENT OF SIMPLE TRAUMATIC DISLOCATIONS. The treatment of a simple dislocation must fulfil three requirements : (1) restoration of the displaced articular surfaces to their normal positions ; (2) prevention of recurrence of the dislocation ; and (3) preservation of the functions of the joint. REDUCTION OF THE DISLOCATION.—The chief ob- stacles to reduction of a dislocation are :— [a) Muscular contraction. The muscles around the joint are usually spasmodically contracted as a result of the laceration of the ligaments and the presence of the articular ends of the bones in a new position. It is most important to overcome this spasmodic contraction and this may be effected either by giving a general anaesthetic, or by overcoming