351 FRACTURES OF THE BASE OF THE SKULL B, it becomes flattened, its vertical diameter is diminished and its equatorial diameter increased, from which it follows that its equatorial circumference is increased also. The points CD, CD', etc., will therefore be farther apart from each other than tliey were before the compression, and in consequence there will be tension on the material between C and D, C and D' and so on. If the material between C and D be the weakest part of the ball, a split will occur here, otherwise it will take place at some other point on the equator, e.g. between C and D'. It is obvious that there is increased tension between any two points situated on any part of the ball, but the maximum tension occurs around the equator, and it is here that the split will start and will extend upwards and downwards towards the poles. A similar condition exists in the skull when the patient falls upon the top of the head. The elasticity of the skull permits a certain diminution in the vertical dia- meter of the head, the result being that the bone in the lateral areas around the base is bulged outwards. If the bulging is carried too far, fracture occurs at this point, and fissures run thence down- wards towards the base and also to a lesser extent upwards on to the vault. Thus these fractures start, not from the point of impact, but from the point of greatest increase of circumference, and thence run upwards and downwards. Fractures produced in this way are some- times described as ' bursting fractures ' (see Fig. 151). The complications of fracture of the base are the same as those which accompany fracture of the vault. The chief are compression of the brain and septic troubles. The diagnosis can generally be made from a study of the various phenomena. In fractures of the anterior fossa, blood may accumulate in the fat and connective tissue of the orbit in sufficient quantity to cause proptosis; it then passes forward beneath the conjunctiva, and usually shows first over its lower segment. There is frequently some injury to one or more of the ocular nerves as they emerge from the cranial cavity. There is almost always epistaxis owing to the fracture of the cribriform plate, and later on there may be escape of cerebro-spinal fluid from the nose. In fractures of the middle fossa, ha;morrhage occurs from the ear, if the membrana tympani has been ruptured. Blood may also run down the Fig. 151.—' Bursting Fractures ' of the Skull. Diagram to illustrate how the normal skull ABC, when struck violently on the verte.x assinnes the shape AB'C and finally biursts, giving rise to a fracture indicated by the shaded area.