DISEASES OF THE ANKLE-JOINT AND TARSUS 229 only. It is sometimes useful to add to the horizontal incision a vertical one, just in front of , and parallel to, the outer border of the tendo Achillis running upwards for about two inches. By this means three flaps are formed, which are dissected off the bone, care being taken to avoid the tendons of the peronei muscles behind the external maUeolus. As soon as these have been defined, the incision is carried down to the bone throughout the rest of its extent, and the soft structures, if not diseased, are peeled off with a periosteum detacher. The tendo Achillis is divided just at its point of attachment to the bone, or the periosteum, witli the tendon attached to it, may be peeled off, so as to allow it to retain its connection with the flaps ; this, of course, should only be done when the posterior part of the bone is free from disease. If the flaps are well retracted, the greater part of the bone can now be cleared, and the whole of the upper surface exposed as far as the calcaneo- astragaloid articulation. The only parts of the bone not well exposed are the calcaneo-cuboid joint and the sustentaculum tali. The middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle is next divided, when, by pressing the bone downwards and inwards, the articulation between it and the astragalus is seen, and the calcaneo-astragaloid ligament can be divided. The calcaneo-cuboid joint is exposed by turning forward the structures at the anterior end of the outer incision ; in dividing the ligaments, the knife must be kept close to the bone. The portion of the bone that gives most trouble is the susten- taculum tali ; in freeing it, the greatest care must be taken to keep the edge of the knife well against the bone, and to employ the periosteum detacher as much as possible, so as to avoid damage to the important structures in its immediate neighbourhood. After dividing the con- nections between the astragalus and the os calcis and opening the calcaneo-cuboid articulation, it is generally possible to expose the structures retaining the bone by using the latter as a lever, and then to turn them off the sustentaculum tali without damage. The tendon of the tibialis posticus must be carefully raised from its groove with a raspatory. After the bone has been removed and the bleeding arrested, the wound must be examined for diseased synovial membrane in the neighbourhood of the calcaneo-astragaloid or the calcaneo-cuboid joints; and, if any is found, it must be removed. Sometimes the cartilage on the under surface of the astragalus is diseased ; and, if so, it must l^e removed, along with a thin layer of the lower surface of the bone. Any sinuses present must be excised, if possible, or at any rate carefully scraped and sponged out with undiluted carbolic acid. As a rule, it is best to stitch up the wound after inserting a drainage tube at the most dependent spot. It is always advisable to employ drainage in these cases, because a large cavity is left in whicli serum is