AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 254 early period there is marked lateral mobility of the wrist, as ascertained by fixing the forearm with one hand and moving the carpus laterally upon it with the other ; this is due to softening of the lateral ligaments and is a most characteristic symptom of a tuberculous wrist. As the disease progresses, there is a great tendency to dislocation forwards of the carpus, and much pain and rigidity about the joint. The patient cannot hold up the hand without support, and if no treat- ment has been adopted the hand is flexed at the wrist and the fingers are extended. Adhesions may form in the tendon sheaths surrounding the wrist, and tuberculous disease of these structures is not uncommon. Abscesses and sinuses are chiefly found over the dorsal aspect of the wrist. TREATMENT.—The treatment may be expectant or operative. Expectant Treatment.—There is a great tendency to stiffness of the fingers from adhesions in the tendon sheaths, and therefore active and passive movements of the fingers should be assiduously kept up. A second important point is that the metacarpus should be thrown backwards on the splint. If anchylosis of the wrist-joint occurs with the metacarpus in a line with the bones of the forearm or at all flexed, it is almost impossible to shut the fingers into the palm, even when there are no adhesions in the tendons about the joint. In order to enable the fingers to be flexed properly, it is necessary for the metacarpus to form an obtuse angle with the back of the forearm ; this point is often neglected, the forearm and hand being usually put up on a straight anterior splint. The best splint for disease of the wrist-joint is that introduced by Lord Lister for the after-treatment of excision of the wrist. This takes the form of a flat wooden splint, on the lower part of which a wedge-shaped piece of cork is fixed on which the metacarpus rests (see Fig. 103). The cork ends abruptly opposite the knuckles so as to allow flexion of the fingers and it is cut away on the radial side so as to permit the thumb to hang down. This position of the thumb is very important; with any other the power of opposition is apt to be lost. It is not uncommon to find that the hand has been placed on a straight sphnt with not only the metacarpus in the same line with the forearm, but also with the thumb on the same plane and closely apphed to the other fingers. If the thumb becomes stift' in this position, all power of opposition is lost even though movement be retained in the fingers, and Lord Lister specially pointed out the importance of making the splint sufficiently narrow to allow the thumb to drop. The result of these precautions is that, during the treatment, move- ment of the fingers and thumb can be kept up, and, even if a certain amount of stiffness should occur, the power of grasp in the thumb will be retained. The splint should reach as high as the elbow and may be fixed on by silicate bandages. The arm should be carried in a shng during the day, and at night should be laid upon a pillow or