AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE 524 any carious stumps removed ; aphthous or other ulcerations about the mouth should also be appropriately treated. It is not at all uncommon to find in childi-en with cleft palate a chronic pharyngitis accompanied by dryness of the mucous membrane and the secretion of quantities of tenacious mucus. This condition should be treated before the operation is performed, the parts being frequently sponged with boric acid or carbonate of soda lotion (gr. x. ad 5].). If coryza is present, the operation should be delayed. Adenoids are common in these patients, and not infrequently they are inflamed. If so, or if they are growing, they should be removed some weeks before the operation on the palate is undertaken. The child should have recovered from the operation, and the wound in the naso- pharynx should be healed before the attempt is made to close the cleft palate. It is not necessary to remove the adenoids in every case of cleft palate ; very often the local condition may be improved by the use of chlorate of potash lotion (gr. x. ad sj.) applied with a binsh, any crusts being removed by forceps. The Operation.—When performing the operation it is very im- portant to have a good light. The table should be so arranged that the light falls directly into the patient's mouth, and it is well to have the head fully extended, partly because it is thus possible to see and manipulate better, and partly because the blood will then collect in the naso-pharynx, and is not so likely to enter the air passages. The thorax may be raised by suitable pillows, or the patient may be brought to the end of the table so that the head hangs over it. The surgeon may sit at the head of the table and the child's arms and legs should be secured, as he is not always profoundly under the anaesthetic. The anaesthetic should be chloroform, and is best administered by the open method on the corner of a folded towel. This is better than the usual plan of employing Jiinker's nasal tube, for, if the latter be pushed up the nose, it is apt to injure the mucous membrane, and form a focus of future inflammation, while if introduced into the mouth it gets in the way of the operator. Further, cliloroform vapour is irritating, and, if blown on the line of incision for some time, it may interfere with union. The best method, therefore, is to get the child fuUy under the anaesthetic before the operation is commenced, and then to saturate the corner of a towel with chloroform and take advantage of every pause in the operation to maintain the administration. In this way it is comparatively easy to keep the patient under the anesthetic during the entire operation. The blood in the pharynx must be gently sponged away when necessary. The assistant's duty is to maintain the gag in position and to sponge for the surgeon ; the sponging must be done very carefully so as not to bruise the delicate flaps, but at the same time the throat must be kept clear of blood. The mouth must be held well open with a gag, and some self-retaining instrument is the most satisfactory. A very useful one is Whitehead's (see Fig. 248), which is provided with a plate to keep the