534 AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE Treatment.—The treatment when union seems doubtful is largely prophylactic, and every precaution must be taken in the way of careful operation and after-treatment to avoid anything that may interfere with union ; any intercurrent affection, such as a catarrh,^should receive careful attention before the operation. If there is any doubt as to the union of the edges when the wound is examined, the stitches should not be removed for a fortnight or three weeks. Should failure of union occur at any part, it is well to leave it alone for some time if the hole is small, because spontaneous closure often takes place. If this does not occur, it is well to administer an anaesthetic before the hole has healed and while the edges are still granulating, and to intro- duce fresh sutures to draw the sides of the gap together, if necessary freeing them sufficiently to allow them to meet without tension. It is not advisable to pare the granulating edges under these circumstances ; it is sufficient to scrape them slightly. These second stitches should be left in for at least a fortnight. If this secondary union fails, it is well to delay further operative interference for at least six months, so as to allow complete cicatrisation and contraction to take place. The subse- quent operation consists either in paring the edges of the defect, making lateral incisions for the relief of tension and then bringing the edges together, or in splitting a flap from the palate as suggested by Mr. Lane (see p. 537). If the soft palate fails to unite, the contraction leads to shortening of the palate, so that secondary operations seldom bring about a perfect result. Hence every care must be taken to secure union at the first operation and in any case a second operation should never be done while sloughing is present. Various other operations for cleft palate have been introduced, but they have not been generally adopted. Nevertheless, they deserve careful notice and even, though not considered suitable for the ordinary run of cases, they may be of value under certain circumstances. Of these we may mention Davies-Collev's, Arbuthnot Lane's, and Brophy's operations. Davies-Colley's Operation.—The operation introduced by the late Mr. Davies-CoUey is useful in very wide clefts in young children, in whom more than one operation may be required to close the gap in the palate. It may also be of advantage in cases of a cleft in the hard palate when a previous operation has been performed and has failed, leaving much cicatricial tissue. It is done as follows : As large a flap of the muco-periosteum as possible is cut from one side of the hard palate ; if the two sides are unequal in size, it should be taken from the larger. This flap is marked out by an incision starting opposite and close to the last molar tooth, and running forwards parallel, and just internal, to the teeth as far as the apex of the cleft. The incision is then carried back- wards along the edge of the cleft about one-sixth of an inch external to its margin and extends well on to the soft palate. The tongue-like flap of