DISEASES OF THE HIP-JOINT 177 hand, a patient with a stiff hip-joint has a firm and very satisfactory support, provided the limb is in good position. Further, in children, excision often interferes to a very marked extent with the growth of the limb. Apart from the question of the functional result it is very doubtful whether excision really cuts short the disease or prevents subsequent general infection. Complete removal of the disease is hardly possible in the case of the hip-joint. It is a particularly difiicult matter to take away the posterior part of the synovial membrane, and the surgeon often has to content himself with scraping this after he has removed the head of the bone. Moreover, it is by no means certain that an early excision does really avoid dissemination of the tuberculous disease. A considerable number of cases have been recorded in which tuberculous meningitis has followed so directly after an excision of the hip that there can hardly be any doubt that it was caused by the operative procedure. Local recurrence also is by no means avoided ; indeed the divided bone often becomes infected, and tuberculous osteitis or osteo-myelitis occurs. Hence we cannot agree that early e.xcision is indicated either on the ground of a rapid cure of the disease or on that of avoiding dissemination of the tubercle, whilst the functional result is certainly not good. Nevertheless there are still cases in which excision at this stage of the disease is the proper procedure. Such are (i) cases in which the disease progresses in spite of careful expectant treatment ; that is to say, those in which the tenderness does not subside, the fullness in the groin increases, the starting pains at night continue, and the disease is evidently active; and (2) cases in which it is evident that there is primary acetabular disease—this is shown particularly by thickening of the tissues on the inner surface of the acetabulum, which can be felt per rectum. In these cases the head of the bone must be removed, if the disease does not show early signs of recovery, in order to obtain sufficiently free access to the joint to enable the surgeon to deal with the acetabular deposit. Treatment of the third stage.—-The characteristic of this stage is the presence either of unopened abscesses, or of sinuses. The deformity is very similar to that already described in the previous stage. While the local treatment as regards splints and extension is the same as in the second stage, the operative treatment depends on whether the abscess is unopened, or whether septic sinuses are present. When there is an unopened abscess.—Operative treatment is necessary under these circumstances, because the cases in which a chronic abscess becomes absorbed are so rare that a cure cannot reasonably be looked for, if it is left alone. The point for decision is, whether the abscess shall be aspirated or opened, or whether steps shall be taken to remove the primary disease by excision of the joint. The answer will depend upon the circumstances of the individual case. Wlien the abscess has originated in. N