FRACTURES OF THE BASE OF THE SKULL 349 through the scalp. In the case of glitter fractures it may be impossible to turn aside a flap, and the opening must simply be enlarged as much as may be necessary and the edges of the wound held aside. The fracture is then dealt with as described above, the trephine being applied on the side on which the depression is least marked. After-ireatiiiejit.—The chief danger is septic infection of the wound followed by suppuration either between the skull and the dura mater, or beneath the latter {i.e. lepto-meningitis), or in the brain itself ; hernia cerebri is also a common complication. The avoidance of these con- ditions will depend on the care with which the disinfection of the wound is carried out ; if this is successful, septic inflammation will not occur. When the dura mater is torn, however, even though the wound be aseptic, a certain amount of protrusion of the brain may take place and be diflicult to deal with, because the wound in the soft parts probably lies directly over the rent in the dura. In aseptic cases, however, this pro- trusion rarely gives rise to trouble and diminishes as the wound contracts. It is well to change the dressing on the day following the operation and subsequently according to the amount of discharge. The drainage tube should be removed about the fourth day, provided that there is no sign of sepsis. The bowels should be kept open from the first, and the patient should be restricted to a fluid diet without anv stimulants. If there are no signs of cerebral iiTitation or inflammation—such as increased frequency of the pulse, persistent headache, elevation of temperature, or delirium—the diet may be cautiously increased in a few days, and the patient allowed to sit up ; in the course of two or three weeks he may be allowed to get out of bed. FRACTURES OF THE BASE OF THE SKULL. Fractures of the base are generally fissured fractures, although, when the injury has been very severe, portions of the base may be com- pletely loosened and very extensively comminuted. The fissures are generally widespread both about the base and also up the sides of the skull and may even extend well on to the vault. In almost all cases there is considerable haemorrhage from the torn vessels, part of the blood escaping externally and part accumulating within the skull. When the dura mater is torn, as it usually is, cercbro-spinal fluid and some- times also brain substance escapes from the subarachnoid space. These fractures are almost always compound in some part of their course, many of them opening into the ear or the nose. There is, therefore, a great risk of septic complications, and subdural abscess or suppurative lepto-meningitis may occur. These fractures of the base are very serious injuries, chiefly on account of the damage done to important structures at the base of the brain, and also on account of the risk of septic complications ; their gravity