274 AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE contact with the skin, otherwise extensive and intractable burns are certain to result ; the bottles should be placed outside the blankets. Reduction of the fracture.—In some cases the fracture spontaneously reduces itself when the spine is in the horizontal position ; in others, however, the deformity remains, and it may be advisable to attempt reduction, especially when the injury is in the cervical region. This should be done under full anaesthesia, but its induction must be very gradual, and the greatest care must be taken to see that the patient does not struggle during the initial stages. When the patient is fulh^ anaesthetised, gradual and steady extension should be made without raising the patient from the horizontal position. After the attempt has been made, a convex pillow may be placed beneath the spine at the seat of the injury so as to maintain any reduction that may have been obtained, the knees being flexed over a pillow to relax the psoas muscles. Operative treatment.—The advisability of attempting to remove the pressure on the cord by operation in fracture of the bodies has been much debated ; in our opinion it is of very doirbtful value. Indeed, in the majority of cases in which the displacement is marked and there is no doubt that the cord has been irremediably damaged, operation is not only useless, but adds considerably to the immediate risks. The only cases in which laminectomy seems advisable or even justifiable are those in which the damage to the cord appears to be incomplete, that is to say, the paralysis is partial and, judging from its gradual increase and the irritative symptoms accompanying it at first, is probably due to pressure by blood-clot rather than by bone ; under these circumstances it is well to perform laminectomy at once. In other cases, again, in which the paralysis, although complete at first shows signs of improvement, it may be also advisable to perform laminectomy with the view of removing any pressure which may be still present. In fractures in the cervical region, in which the spine is more accessible and the injury to the cord may be less, laminectomy may also be of use. Except under these circum- stances, however, the operation does not seem advisable for the ordinary fracture-dislocations. The operation is described in Vol. II. p. 131. After-treatment.—When recovery is taking place, the patient must be kept in the horizontal position for at least two months, at the end of which time he may be fitted with a well-moulded poroplastic or plaster of Paris jacket, and aUowed to get about on crutches if the paralysis is only shght. As a rule, however, the patient remains bed-ridden through- out the rest of his existence, the sitting position being the utmost that he is able to assume. The condition of the urine usually varies considerably at different times. Treatment may also be required for the various trophic nerve lesions that are apt to occur. 3. Of Fracture of the Spinous processes and Laminae.—In these cases the prognosis is much more hopeful, because the cord is seldom pulped up by the depressed bone. Any paralysis present is