199 DISEASES OF THE KNEE-JOINT move about on cratches, or even to sit up in bed, is accompanied by contraction of tlie muscles of tlie tliigli and this keeps up a state of unrest in the joint. In a child the recumbent position may be enforced by carrying a sheet across the trunk and placing heavy sand-bags over it on each side of the body. Pressure is often of considerable value at this stage of the treatment and is usually combined with Scott's dressing, which is also to a certain extent a counter-irritant. This is made by spreading the compound mercurial ointment fairly thickly upon lint, which is then cut into strips and wTapped firmly around the joint. Outside this, ordinary strapping is applied smoothly and firmly so as to exercise pressure. A more satisfactory method is to spread the ointment on chamois leather, which is then cut into strips and applied in an imbricated fashion as already described (see p. 117). The limb is fixed upon a suitable splint and the patient kept at rest as before. The Scott's dressing requires changing at least once a week, otherwise the skin may become excoriated ; should this happen, the dressing must be abandoned, and pressure by means of a cotton-wool and starch bandage (see p. 118) substituted for it. In pure synovial disease extensio>i is quite unnecessary ; indeed it would be hurtful in most cases, as has already been pointed out in con- nection with disease of the hip. It is only of benefit at this stage when flexion has occurred and it is applied then with the view of overcoming the deformity; three or four pounds are usually sufiicient. When the flexion is slight, it is usually found that a Thomas's splint will suffice, the weight of the limb alone gradually bringing the knee straight. Should the synovial thickening remain unaffected or actually increase in spite of complete rest, good hygienic conditions and pressure, some more active measures will be required; of these, perhaps, the best is injection of iodoform and glycerine emulsion into the joint. This should be prepared and used as directed on p. 118. The injection gives rise to a certain amount of swelling and perhaps slight pain for a few hours after- wards, both of which gradually pass off ; the injection may be repeated about once a week. In some cases we have found very marked improvement foUow this treatment. Another plan used in the early stage is Bier's congestive method. This has already been described (see p. 119) and may be advantageously combined with the iodoform injections. If, after two or three months of this treatment, the condition is improving or at any rate not extending, arrangements may be made to enable the patient to move about. The best splints for this purpose are Thomas's knee splint and Hessing's splint. Of these, Thomas's splint (see Fig. 78) is probably the best in the first instance, but it is well also to apply a light silicate casing around the knee ; if the Thomas's knee splint is used alone it does not seem to fix the leg sufficiently, as