DISEASES OF THE HIP-JOINT 175 abducted, the patient will have to tilt the pelvis towards that side when he desires to bring the sole of the foot flat upon the ground in walking, so that the apparent shortening becomes less than the real shortening, and thus the patient can get about with a thinner sole on the affected side than would otherwise be necessary. If extension alone is em- ployed, it will be difficult to maintain this abduction ; the patient involuntarily wriggles across the bed and so defeats all the attempts to remedy the adduction. Hence a Liston's long splint should be applied on the sound side and heavy sand-bags placed outside it. Shoulder Fig. 66.—Method of .^pplicatios' of Phelps's Bo.x. The child lies upon suitable firm cushions made to fit the splint; other similar ones are inserted between the sides of the splint and the body. The legs are kept in their respective troughs by bandages ; the thorax is encircled by a broad towel or folded sheet over the splint. The sketch above shows the box arranged for a case of spinal caries ; extension is applied to the head, which is fastened to the end of the splint by a headstall, and the child's weight allowed to tell upon it by raising that end of the splint. For hip disease, if desired, extension can be made by combining weight and pulley extension of the lower limb with the above ; the cord bearing the weight passes from the stirrup through lioles in the foot of the splint. straps attached to the bed, or a broad sheet passed across the chest and wrapped round heavy sand-bags on each side should be used to prevent the patient raising the body from the mattress. It is also advisable to place fracture boards beneath the mattress, and the foot of the bed or of the cot should be raised on blocks six to nine inches high. After the limb has been got into good position, and the muscular spasm has subsided, a plaster of Paris or a Thomas's splint may be fitted ; the double Thomas's splint should be emploj^ed in children, as the single one is quite ineffectual in obtaining sufficient abduction. The apparatus should be worn for a year or two after the disease has come to