HARE-LIP 521 detached on each side with a fine separator, and the septum is then divided or a V-shaped portion is removed from it (see Fig. 245). If it is merely divided, the anterior part of the septum is pushed a little to one side of the posterior so that it slides alongside the latter, and allows the pre- maxilla to come into position when that bone is forced back. The mucous surface on each side of the pre-maxilla, as well as that on the alveoli, should always be pared, and these raw surfaces should be fastened together by catgut stitches. When it is impossible to get the pre-maxilla into position, an incision may be made along its lower edge and the teeth scooped out ; a shell of bone and periosteum is left, which will subsequently ossify and support the central part of the lip. Attention is next directed to the prolabium. In some cases the columella is so short that the pro- labium, when pared, is only sufficient to repair this ; indeed, it may be necessary to lengthen it by some device such as that shown in Fig. 246, in order to raise the tip of the nose sufficiently. When the colu- mella is long, the prolabium should be pared to a rect- angular shape (see Fig. 247, /I), so as to fit in between the sides of the lip when they are brought towards each other. The lip on each side is then separated from the alveolus in the usual manner, and it may be advisable to carry Fig. 245.—V-SHAPED Incision in the Sep- tum FOR PROJECTING Pre-maxilla. The dotted line on the lip is intended to be upon the septum. The lip should be turned back to show it. A B Fig. 246.—Method of lengthening the Columella in Hare-lip Operations. The columella is divided along the dotted lines shown in A, and the tip of the nose is then raised and the columella sutured as shown in B. I'iG. -'47.—Operation for Double Hare-lip. The finished operation gives the usual downward projection of the free margin of the lip in the middle line. an incision up around each ala and remove a crescentic portion of the skin as already described above (see p. 520), so as to allow the