AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS l62 drainage tubes should be removed and the wounds allowed to heal; passive movements and massage should then be employed. If dislocation has occurred, the head of the bone must be replaced in the acetabulum, and the limb fixed in the abducted position by means of a plaster of Paris splint. In applying the plaster splint great care must be used to avoid pressure on the prominent parts or on the skin. Among other forms of infective arthritis, that due to the pneumococcus is not uncommon. This form of arthritis has already been referred to on p. 104, and its treatment does not differ materially from that of the other forms of acute arthritis. The symptoms are often not so acute and the prognosis as regards a useful joint is rather more favourable. CHRONIC SYNOVITIS. Simple chronic synovitis is rare in the hip-joint. The treatment must follow the lines laid down for the disease in general (see p. 106). TUBERCULOUS DISEASE. After the spine, the hip is the joint most frequently affected with tuberculosis. Hip-joint disease is essentially an affection of childhood, more than half the cases occurring before ten years of age, and over go per cent, before puberty. The disease may arise either in the bone or in the synovial mem- brane, probably oftener in the former than in the latter. When the disease commences in the femur, the primary focus is most frequently found at the lower part of the neck just external to the epiphyseal line. It may sometimes be met with further out towards the trochanter, or deeply in the substance of the neck, and, in some rare instances, in the epiphysis of the head itself. Tuberculous sequestra seem to be rather more frequent than soft caseating deposits. Primary disease in the acetabulum is also not uncommon. When it commences in this situation its usual seat is the neighbourhood of the Y-cartilage ; this structure may be destroyed, and mobility of the various constituents of the innominate bone may result. COXmSEi.—^The general course of tuberculous disease in joints has already been fuUy described, and nothing further need be said as to the pathology and progress of primary synovial disease. When the disease commences in the neck of the femur, it generally opens ultimately into the cavity of the joint (see p. no), and leads to general infection of the synovial membrane ; occasionall}^ however, it may reach the surface outside the synovial membrane and give rise to an abscess which does not communicate with the joint. This is most common when the primary deposits in the femur are situated in the immediate neighbourhood of the trochanter. When the disease is in the acetabulum, the deposit not only infects the joint, but, owing to the thinness of the bone, it generally