295 TUBERCULOUS DISEASE Rest.—At the commencement of the treatment it is best to put the patient to bed and keep the spine absokitely at rest for from six to twelve months. In this way the condition of the spine can be carefully watched, while extension to overcome the tonic contraction of the muscles can be efficiently applied. The patient should lie on his back: the prone position, which was formerly adopted, being objectionable in every way. The bed should be firm, otherwise the body is apt to sink in the middle, and the pressure will not be taken off the diseased part. The mattress should be of hair, and fracture boards should be placed beneath it ; it is well to have two mattresses, one on the top of the other, so as to diminish the hardness of the bed. The upper one should be divided into three parts, and the narrow portion beneath the pelvis is further divided into two halves (see Fig. 115), each with a separate sheet. When the bed-pan is used, one half of the mattress is pulled out, and the bed-pan substituted for it, and then the other half is gradually withdrawn as the bed-pan is pushed into position. Any acute prominence of the spine, or any part where a bed-sore is threatened, can be protected by ring or oval pillows. No pillow or bolster should be placed under the head ; at the most a soft pillow may be put under the neck ; in disease in the lower lumbar region, however, the head may be raised but not the shoulders. The thighs must be kept horizontal and fixed. If they are free, the psoas muscle is thrown into action every time they are drawn up and the spine is constantly moved. The body and limbs should be fixed between sand-bags. A long heavy sand-bag should extend on each side from the axilla to the sole of the foot, and a shorter one on the inside of each leg from the perineum downwards. The patient is fixed by placing a strong draw- sheet over the thorax and abdomen, and another over the thighs and legs. The heavy sand-bags are then placed over the draw-sheet along the outer sides of the body from the axillae to the feet and the smaller ones along the inside of the limbs ; the ends of the draw-sheets are then wrapped around the sand-bags. In disease of the cervical region, the head and neck must also be placed between short broad sand-bags. In very restless patients it may be advisable to mould a light plaster of Paris casing over the front and sides of the trunk so as to control movement more efficiently. Extension.—One of the most valuable factors in the treatment of spinal disease at all stages and in all situations (except perhaps the lower lumbar region), is extension to the head and lower extremities. It is carried out as follows : the ordinary extension apparatus (see p. 166) is attached to both thighs and in children a weight of about three pounds is affixed to each leg to begin with, the limbs being somewhat abducted; in adults a little more weight may be employed. A similar weight is attached to the head by means of a chin-strap and an occipital band