427 TUMOURS OF THE BRAIN on the urgency of the symptoms and on the probable prolongation of life which will result. When the tumour, while apparently beyond the possibility of removal, is not causing very acute or painful symptoms, there is no real object in operating. On the other hand, when the patient is still conscious and is suffering acutely from the effects of pressure, his condition can be made much more comfortable by opening the skull freely, while the impending blindness—the result of the optic neuritis —may be averted for a time ; and further it is alwaj's possible that the operation may disclose a tumour of such a nature or in such a situation that it may be removed. If it is decided to operate in these cases, a ' decompression ' operation (see p. 438) should be performed. Radical Operation.—The entire scalp should be shaved the night before the operation and disinfected in the manner described in Vol. I. p. 99. It is necessary to mark out on the scalp the supposed area of the tumour. This is done by ascertaining from clinical data the relation of the tumour to the convolutions, and then marking out the relations of those convolutions to the scalp. The most important convolutions are those in front of and behind the fissure of Rolando, and there are various ways in which the position of this fissure may be ascertained. The principal bony landmarks on the skull are the glabella at the root of the nose, the external occipital protuberance, the bregma half-way between these, the external angle of the orbit, and the mastoid process. Localisation of the Fissure of Rolando.—The upper end of the fissure of Rolando is situated about five centimetres behind the bregma, and the fissure runs downwards and forwards, forming an angle of about 67° with the line connecting the glabella and the occipital protuberance ; it is about three and three-quarter inches long. An^^ variation in its direction (which is not uncommon) is usually so slight as not to affect the operation because the area of bone removed is laige enough to include these variations. Various methods of localising the fissure are used ; one of the first was Reid's, in which a line (Reid's base line) is drawn round the head from the lower margin of the orbit through the centre of the external auditory meatus (see Fig. 181), and then two lines at right angles to this, up to the top of the cranium, one just in front of the external auditory meatus and the other along the posterior border of the mastoid process. A third line, indicating the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius, is drawn from a point one and quarter inches directly behind the external angular process of the frontal bone to another point three- quarters of an inch below the parietal eminence cutting both vertical lines, and a fourth line is drawn from the glabella to the external occipital protuberance. These four lines enclose an irregular quadri- lateral figure, and the line joining the postero-superior angle with the antero-inferior angle will indicate the fissure of Rolando. One of the easiest methods of locating the fissure of Rolando is by using the so-called ' Rolandometer,' suggested by Sir Victor Horsley