289 SPINA BIFIDA sac on their way to the inter-vertebral foramina there is no particular difficulty in isolating them ; when, however, they are intimately adherent to the sac wall, which itself is thin and membranous, or when the cord is flattened out and adherent to the sac, the difficulties are very great, and considerable time may be required for the operation. The various structures must be carefully identified and separated, and, if the nerves cannot be dissected free from the sac wall, portions of the latter must be left adherent and returned with them into the canal. The subsequent steps of the operation are similar to those just de- scribed. It is particularly in these cases that the difficulty in bringing the skin-flaps together at the end of the operation is most likely to be met with. 3. Cases complicated by iilcei'aiwn of the sac wall.—This is a compli- cation of the very gravest nature : on the one hand, it demands early operation, otherwise rupture of the sac and fatal septic meningitis are certain; while, on the other hand, it minimises the surgeon's chance of obtaining a good result owing to the difficulty of securing asepsis. In all cases in which nerve elements are present in the sac and are adherent to the wall beneath the area of ulceration, the chances of recovery are very slight, because the ulcerated surface must be removed and the risk of carrying infection inwards is very great. If the imminence of perforation of the sac demands that something must be done, it will be best to have recourse to Morton's injections (see p. 284). When matters are not so hopeless and operation is called for, disin- fection of the ulcerated surface must be effected with undiluted carbolic acid, which should be thoroughly rubbed into the whole of the ulcerating surface, while the skin around is disinfected in the usual manner. The elliptical incision must go quite \vide of the septic area, and if there is difficulty in getting the edges of the skin wound together—as usually happens—the skin around may be undermined or flaps made so as to enable the edges to come together without any great tension {vide supra). When septic meningitis is present or is likely to ensue, large doses of urotropine should be given. This drug appears to be of considerable value in combating sepsis in the cerebro-spinal fluid. Treatment suitable for the individual forms.—A few words may be said as to the applicability of these methods to the varieties of the affection already mentioned :— [a) Meningocele.—-As there are no nerve elements in the sac and the tumour is generally covered by sound skin, this is the most favourable condition. When the opening into the spinal canal is small, Morton's injections ma.y be used, though excision is probably better. When the opening is large, the operation should be delayed as long as is consistent with safety, the child wearing a shield in the meantime. If the tumour tends to enlarge as the child grows, excision followed by an attempt at osteo-plastic repair should be employed. III. u