192 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS and the pain so severe, that it may be necessary to make free incisions into the joint to allow the effusion to escape. If the incisions are sufficiently free and are left open, drainage need not be employed; the synovial membrane is so inflamed and sensitive that the presence of a drainage tube may cause intense pain and retard recovery. In ordinary cases of simple acute synovitis the attack soon subsides under treatment by rest and fomentations, and the fluid will have dis- appeared in a week or ten days. As soon as this has occurred, it is necessary to take steps to prevent the formation of fibrous adhesions, and therefore gentle massage and passive movements should be begun as soon as pos- sible ; the patella should be moved freely in all directions, and the knee gently flexed. Unless these manoeuvres are followed by an increase of the effusion, the movements may be gradually increased and the massage may also be more vigorous. This treatment should be continued for about a week, when, in the absence of any bad symptom, the patient may be allowed to walk, at first wearing a firm starch and cotton-wool band- age or an elastic knee-cap, and later without any apparatus at all. The common mistake made in treating acute synovitis of joints is to keep the limb too long upon a spHnt. It is not unusual to find the limb kept up for six to eight weeks without any attempt at passive movement, and this allows the formation of firm fibrous adhesions which may have to be broken down under an anaesthetic before massage and passive movements can do any good. The reason why the limb is kept in spHnts so long is, that the attempts at movement may cause great pain ; this pain is, however, due to stretching the young adhesions, and quickly passes off as they are torn through. Hence the mere occurrence of pain should not deter the surgeon from employing early passive movement, the main symptom indicating that movement is injurious being recurrence of the effusion. When the Umb has been kept on a splint for too long a time, massage and passive movement may be tried at first; but, as a rule, it will be necessary to break down the adhesions under an anaesthetic before any progress can be made. In doing this the rules recommended for the treatment of adhesions (see p. 155) should be followed. Fig. 74.—Aspiration of the Knee-joint. The diagram shows the best spot at which to puncture the joint and the direction in which the needle is to be introduced.