5o6 AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE PLASTIC OPERATIONS UPON THE NOSE. Apart from the lateral deviations of the nose which have been alread}' described in connection with fractures of the nasal bones, deformities may occur from injury or disease. We may classify these under the following headings. SINKING-IN" OF THE BRIDGE—This common and very important deformity may result from badly treated fractures or from necrosis after fracture ; but it is most commonly due to syphilis, either from necrosis of the nasal bones in adults or from imperfect development of these bones in congenital syphilis. When the nasal bones have been lost or depressed at an early period of life a typical deformity is produced. In place of the prominent bridge there is a depression, and from the lower end of this depression the cartilaginous portion of the nose projects forwards. As a consequence of the contraction during healing, a sort of pivot movement occurs, so that the tip of the nose comes to be much higher than normal and the nostrils look forwards instead of downwards ; the result is very unsightly. LOSS OF THE CARTILAGINOUS PORTION.—The cartilaginous portion of the nose may be lost, while the bony structures and the skin over them are healthy. Such deformities are caused by wounds, such as sword-cuts, or disease, such as lupus or syphilis. More rarely the deformity may be produced by the surgeon in removing malignant disease of the tip of the nose. SMALL PARTIAL LOSSES.-Smaller partial deformities from injury or local disease, such as the loss of the tip of the nose, or of a portion of one ala, are frequently seen. The loss of the tip of the nose, is not uncommon as the result of gangrene after debilitating diseases, such as typhoid fever or cholera. TOTAL DESTRUCTION OF THE NOSE.—This is usu- ally the result of syphilis, most frequently of the congenital variety. In place of the nose there is merely a patch of cicatricial tissue, with one or two oval openings in it ; when the destruction extends to the septum there is only one rounded opening, when this remains intact there are two. The extent of the defect varies in different cases ; it is frequently not quite so complete as that above mentioned. Treatment.—Of loss of the Bridge of the Nose.—Here there are two deformities to deal with—namely, the sinking-in of the bridge of the nose, and the tilting forward of the aperture of the nostrils. The amount of tilting varies in different cases and may be com- paratively slight when it follows an injury in adults ; in other cases it is very marked. Injection of Paraffin.—When there is not much tilting of the tip, an attempt may be made to raise the bridge of the nose by the injection