44 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS the bone, owing to the obstacle offered by the orbicular ligament, which may fall into and fill up the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna. Moreover, after successful reduction, the head of the bone is apt to slip out of place again owing to the pull of the biceps. A general anaesthetic is required for reduction, because it may be necessary to employ manipulations for a considerable time in order to get the remains of the orbicular ligament out of the lesser sigmoid cavity, and greater nicety of manipulation is required than is possible without its aid. The elbow is bent to a right angle and traction is made upon the forearm, whilst the head of the radius is pressed back- wards into position with the thumb of the hand that fixes the arm. It is easy to get the head of the bone nearly into place, but the reduction is not satisfactory unless the bone remains in position with the aid of very slight pressure from the thumb, and pronation and supina- tion are free. If the divided ends of the orbicular liga- ment curl up between the head of the radius and the ulna, these movements will be hampered, and the head of the bone will betray a constant tendency to slip out of position, particularly when fuU pronation is performed. Afier-treatment. — When reduction is complete, the elbow is put up upon a posterior rectangular splint with the forearm fully supinated; a moulded anterior splint of guttapercha or poroplastic material with a pad between it and the front of the head of the radius should be employed to press the latter back (see Fig. 21). It is important to practise pronation and supination daily within a week from the time of the accident, as otherwise troublesome adhesions may form. The movements should always be carried out by the surgeon himself, and displacement of the head of the radius should be guarded against by applying pressure over it by the thumb. The splint and pad should be kept on for the first three weeks ; after that time the patient may discard the sphnt, but should keep the arm in a sling for another two Fig. 21.—Apparatus for use after Dislocation of the Head of the Radius Forwards. The posterior rectangular splint is of wood; the anterior splint is a moulded one, and has a pad between it and the front of the head of the radius.