373 COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN the scalp and may form a distinct hasmatoma. Wlien the fracture is compound, there may be free escape of the blood externally, in which case the pressure symptoms may be absent or very slight. Symptoms.—When hjemorrhage from the middle meningeal artery follows a fracture of the skull there is usually a history of temporary con- cussion, followed by reaction and a lucid interval. This lucid interval varies from a few minutes to a few hours, and then gradually increasing drowsiness occurs, finally ending in coma. The duration of the lucid interval, and indeed its existence, depends, of course, on the rapidity with which the blood is poured out, and also on whether laceration of the brain is also present. When the hcemorrhage occurs rapidly or when there is also laceration of the brain, the patient may not have ralUed from the primary shock before the amount of blood poured out has become so great as to produce compression. When the compression is fully developed, the patient lies in a comatose condition characterised by a slow and usually full pulse, and by slow and often stertorous respiration. The pupils are dilated and fixed, the dilatation being most marked and sometimes, indeed, only present on the side on which the haemorrhage has occurred. There may be spastic contraction of various muscles with twitchings or even epileptiform convulsions ; when these occur, some laceration of the brain substance is generally also present. Following this period of irritation, there may be paralysis if the clot lies over one of the motor centres, the loss of power being limited at fust to the muscles corresponding to the particular centre, but extending later, and sometimes involving the whole body. Prognosis.-—The prognosis is bad; unless operative measures are adopted it is almost hopeless. If left alone the patient usually dies in a few hours ; when recovery takes place without operation, the patient generally suffers afterwards from some mental or physical disability or is subject to epileptiform convulsions. Hence the earlier the haemor- rhage is arrested and the clot removed, the better ; for, if this is not done until some time has elapsed, the brain may not expand properly, even though the compression is relieved, or else fatal oedema of the brain may result. Treatment.— The head should be shaved completely, and the scalp scrupulously disinfected (see p. 328). When the patient is comatose, no anaesthetic is necessary; when one is required, chloroform should be chosen in preference to ether, as it causes less cerebral congestion. Even when an anaesthetic is employed it is only required for the skin incision as a rule, an occasional inhalation being all that is neces- sary afterwards. The head is turned to the opposite side and steadied on a sand-bag, or a skull prop (see Fig. 155). Unless the symptoms or the situation of tlie fracture point to rupture of the posterior branch of the middle meningeal, tlie anterior division