DISPLACEMENT OF THE SEMILUNAR CARTILAGES 71 obstacle to complete extension. After the cartilage has been replaced, it is weU to put on a posterior splint for two or three days, and apply cold so as to diminish the effusion into the joint. After that time the splint should be left off and massage and passive movement should be employed daily for about half an hour at a time. After the effusion has disappeared, the massage may be limited to the muscles of the thigh, the object being to keep up the tone of the muscles, and prevent the atrophy which might otherwise occur; it should be continued for about six weeks. As soon as the swelling has disappeared, the patient may be aUowed to walk about, but only to a moderate ex- tent, and it is well to strap the joint for a few days. In recurring cases, the displacement often takes place after the most trivial injury. The patient is in constant danger of fahing, whilst the useful- ness of the limb is much diminished, and there are frequent attacks of synovitis, for which he has to he up. Under such circumstances there is little chance of curing the trouble in any other way than by operation. If, however, the patient declines to have an operation performed, an attempt must be made to replace the cartilage by the manipula- tions previously described. He should also be told to keep his knee more or less stiff when walk- ing, and when the internal semilunar cartilage is at fault, he should remember to keep his toes well turned in. Massage to the muscles of the thigh must be employed, while active movements against resistance should be carried out. The object of the treatment is to strengthen the muscles of the thigh, so that they may hold the hmb firmly and prevent the leg being everted. Splints do not seem to be of any particular value, the objections to them being that they are very uncertain as regards keeping the cartilage in its place, and that their use leads to atrophy of the muscles, and so prevents the limb regaining its strength. Operative measures.—Operation is practically devoid of danger if carried out with careful antiseptic precautions, and the results obtained by it are excellent. It should not be undertaken, however, unless the surgeon is sure of keeping the wound aseptic. In the case of the internal cartilage an incision with its convexity forwards is made over the inner aspect of the knee commencing on the inner side of the joint about half an inch below the articular surface of the tibia and running upwards along the inner side of the pateUa (see Fig. 38). A flap of skin is Fig. 38.—Incision for removal of the internal Semilunar Cartilage. The thick line indicates the incision marking out the skin flap, the dotted one, that through the capsule of the joint.