AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 224 The lateral ligaments are now divided, and the next step in the operation is to remove the astragalus. The inner incision is fuUy re- tracted, the astragalo-scaphoid articulation defined and its ligaments divided. The lateral connections of the astragalus with the os calcis are severed, and then it is easy, by everting the foot and pushing up the astragalus, to insinuate the knife beneath the bone and divide the calcaneo- astragaloid ligament. The astragalus is now only held at its posterior part by the sheath of the flexor longus hallucis which runs in a groove in the bone ; this is cleared and the astragalus is removed. The astragalus may be so softened that it breaks up and may have to be removed piecemeal ; this should be avoided if possible. The interior of the joint can now be thoroughly inspected. The remains of the synovial membrane over the lateral and posterior aspects of the joint are gradually detached from the tissues superficial to them with a blunt dissector and the finger, and are divided at their attachment to the tibia and fibula. The tendon of the flexor longus hallucis gives rise to some difficulty, but by puUing the foot downwards from the leg it can be seen and avoided. When the entire synovial membrane has been removed, the lower ends of the tibia and fibula should be protruded through either wound and methodically examined and any suspicious parts taken away (see Fig. 89). In all cases, the edge of the cartilage, to which the synovial membrane was attached, should be shaved off cleanly with a knife. Any soft or loose portions of cartilage should be removed, and the surface of the bone beneath them gouged. Should there be any pits or depressions in the cartilage, they should be enlarged and bone deposits looked for. After the joint has been cleared out, the parts are replaced in position, the joint is filled with iodoform and glycerine emulsion, and the wound stitched up without a drainage tube. Cyanide dressings are applied, with which may be incorporated perforated block-tin or wire- netting splints (see p. 87) ; outside these a large mass of sterilised salicylic wool is put on. After-treatment.—The dressings should be changed in a week, when the wound will probably have healed, and the stitches may be removed. The limb may now be put up in plaster of Paris, taking care to keep the foot strictly in its normal position. The plaster casing is kept on for about six weeks, when it should be removed and an apparatus such as Hessing's splint should be applied, with the object of permitting move- ments at the joint, but preventing lateral displacement and also keeping the foot off the ground. The patient should not be allowed to bear weight on the sole until six or eight months have elapsed from the time of the operation. The chief trouble after arthrectomy of the ankle-joint is the tendency to lateral deviation of the foot—particularly inversion—and this must be carefully guarded against by the use of apparatus until the parts