AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS i84 the bone, the whole surface of the acetabular cavity should be thoroughly scraped with a flushing curette (see Fig. 71). The next, and perhaps the most difficult, part of the operation consists in defining and removing the posterior portion of the capsule. If the patient is bearing the operation well, by far the best way of doing this is to make an incision behind the trochanter extending upwards and back- B Fig. 70.—Saws tor Division of the Femur. A is the form most useful for sub- trochanteric division, while B is more suited for division of the neck of the femur, where the width of the bone to be divided is less. Both forms should be blunt-ended, cross-cut, and very stout, so as to ensure rapid cutting and to minimise the chance of breaking the saw in situ. wards from its posterior border in the direction of the fibres of the gluteus maximus muscle, which are separated by the handle of the knife ; the dissection is then gradually deepened until the posterior portion of the capsule is reached. This may now be separated from the structures behind it by means of one finger introduced through the posterior wound, aided by another introduced through the anterior incision as a guide, Fig. 71.—Flushing Curette. The handle of the curette is provided with a thumb-screw so that it can be moved along the instrument, and give greater purchase if required. In the small upper figure the sharp end of the curette is shown full size. and a considerable portion of the capsule may thus be clipped away. It is, however, practically impossible to remove the entire structure, and the portion remaining must be cut away with curved scissors and systematically scraped with a sharp flushing curette (see Fig. 71) through which a weak sublimate solution (i in 6000) is kept running. After the bleeding has been arrested, the posterior wound is first sutured accurately and then about an ounce of iodoform and glycerine emulsion (see p. 118) is introduced through the anterior incision, and the