AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD 384 After the inflamed region has been thoroughly opened up the pus should be gently washed away with sterilised normal saline solution. The cavity should not be scraped, as is sometimes advised, partty because it^might lead to perforation of the dura mater and infection of the sub- dural tissues, and partly because it is apt to open up fresh paths for the penetration of the bacteria. It is well to touch the cut surfaces of the bone with pure carbolic acid so as to shut off the Haversian canals ; care must be taken that the acid does not run on to the dura mater. When a flap has been turned down, one or two large drainage tubes should be introduced at the lower corners of the flap and the rest of the wound closed by sutures. When a wound has existed previous to the operation, it is best to leave it open and pack it lightly with cyanide gauze until granulation is progressing satisfactorily, when an attempt may be made to bring the edges together, leaving room for the drainage of the deeper parts. The risk in these cases, apart from general infection, is extension of the disease in the bone or infection of the meninges and suppurative lepto-meningitis. SUB-DURAL SUPPURATION. This may occur either as a localised collection of pus or as a diffuse lepto-meningitis. LOCALISED SUB-DURAL SUPPURATION.—The in- flammation of the dura mater usually causes adhesions between that membrane and the arachnoid, and thus, for a time at least, the sub- dural space may be shut off. Pus may then form among these adhesions, so that an abscess of considerable size may form without any general infection of the sub-dural space. As this abscess enlarges, it causes ulceration and superficial suppuration of the cerebral convolutions, or a fresh abscess may develop in the substance of the brain, not communi- cating with the sub-dural one. If the case is left to itself the dura mater may slough, and if there has been a compound fracture the pus may find its way externally; as a rule, however, the patient dies from cerebral compression, from extension of the affection to the general meningeal cavity, or from cerebral abscess. The symptoms are practically the same as those already referred to under extra-dural abscess, but it is not uncommon to have more cerebral irritation than in the latter. As a rule, however, it is im- possible to diagnose a sub-dural abscess from an extra-dural one until the parts have been fully exposed; not uncommonly both are present (see Fig. i6i). Treatment.—This is entirely operative and should be carried out as soon as a diagnosis of intra-cranial inflammation is made, especially in cases of fracture. The procedure in the early stages of the operation is the same as that just detailed up to the point of evacuation of the