258 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS down in the groove on the pahnar aspect, the knife being also kept close to the bone so as to avoid the radial. The thumb being then pushed up by an assistant, the articular end of the metacarpal bone is removed. Though this articulates b}^ a separate joint, it may be affected, and the symmetry of the hand is promoted by reducing it to the same level as the other metacarpals. ' Lastly, the articular surface of the pisiform is clipped off, the rest being left, if sound, as it gives insertion to the flexor carpi ulnaris and attachment to the anterior annular ligament. But, if there is any sus- picion as to its unsoundness, it should be dissected out altogether, and the same applies to the process of the unciform. ' The only tendons divided are the extensors of the carpus, for the flexor carpi radialis is inserted into the second metacarpal below its base, and so escapes. Onlj^ one or two small vessels require ligature. Free drainage must be given. The hand and forearm are put up on the well-known splint of Lord Lister, with the cork support for the hand, which helps to secure the principal objects in the after-treatment—viz., frequent movements of the fingers—while the wrist is kept fixed during consolidation. ' Passive movement of the fingers is begun on the second day, whether the inflammation has subsided or not, and continued dailj^ Each joint should be flexed and extended to the fullest extent possible in health, the metacarpal bone being held quite steady to avoid disturbing the wrist. By this means the suppleness gained by breaking down the adhesions under chloroform is maintained. ' Pronation and supination, flexion and extension, abduction and adduction, must be gradually encouraged as the new wrist acquires firmness. When the hand has acquired sufficient strength, freer play for the fingers should be allowed by cutting off all the splint beyond the knuckles. Even after the hand is healed, a leather support should be worn for some time, accurately moulded to the front of the hmb, reaching from the middle of the forearm to the knuckles, and sufficiently turned up at the ulnar side. This is retained in situ by lacing over the back of the forearm.' The results of this operation vary very much, and on the whole are perhaps not entirely satisfactory. A sphnt must be employed for a very considerable time—from three to six months—and the main complica- tions to guard against are the tendency of the hand to fall into a position of adduction, and also of the base of the first metacarpal bone to be drawn inwards against the rest of the metacarpus. In very bad cases the whole hand becomes rigid and useless. In some cases, however, a very satisfactory result is obtained. Ampuiation.—-Amputation is best done as close above the wrist as possible, and by means of the modified circular method described in Vol. II. p. 519.