5 COMPOUND DISLOCATIONS TREATMENT OF COMPOUND DISLOCATIONS. Wounds of joints, unless they can be kept aseptic, are among the most serious injuries that we are called upon to treat, since acute suppuration in a joint often leads to complete disorganisation of the articulation and also involves a great risk of septicaemia and pyaemia. In recent cases, therefore, a most energetic attempt must be made as soon as possible to get rid of any septic material that may have entered the joint. The skin must be shaved for a considerable distance around the wound and thoroughly disinfected (see Vol. I.). All recesses in the tissues about the joint must be freely exposed, and the soft parts should be well washed with ' strong mixture '; i if they are very dirty, it will be advisable to swab them over with undiluted carbohc acid. The joint cavity and the articular ends of the bone should be douched thoroughly with sterile normal saline solution. If there be gross soiling of these structures, they must also be well washed with the ' strong mixture ' and then freely douched with the saline solution ; otherwise the strong anti- septic should be kept from contact with the articular structures. Some surgeons who have great faith in tincture of iodine mop the soiled surface of the wound with it, but it is doubtful whether it is so useful as carbolic acid. After the wound has been thoroughly cleansed, the dislocation is reduced, and drainage-tubes are introduced into the joint at suitable points. The edges of the wound should then be brought together, except where the tubes emerge, or where there is severe bruising of the tissues and skin. If there be no sign of sepsis in the wound, the tubes may be taken out on the third day and the case treated like an aseptic wound of a joint (see Chap. XL). The joint should be kept on a splint until the drainage- tube is removed, when passive movements may be begun and the case treated as if it were a simple dislocation. WJien some days Iiave elapsed since the iiiiuiy and sepsis is already established, the condition is most serious. To reduce the dislocation under such circumstances would be to confine the pus between the ends of the bones and interfere with its free escape, and therefore, if for some reason no operative procedure is deemed desirable at once, the displace- ment may be left for a time and free drainage established. In some cases in which the infection is not severe and has not spread to the medulla of the bone, it may be worth while to continue this treatment in the hope that the wound will heal. If it does heal it may then be possible to perform an excision or some arthroplastic operation with the view of restoring the function of the joint (see Murphy's method of dealing with anchylosed joints, p. 153). ' The ' strong mixture ' is a i in 20 watery solution of carbolic acid, in which is dissolved one five-hundredth part of corrosive sublimate.