AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE 452 advantages that it may be easily sterilised in the flame, it may be bent to any angle that may prove convenient at the time, and it is not hkely to be broken by the sudden movement of a nervous patient. For all purposes a needle bent at an angle of 45° at a distance of one-third of an inch from the free end is most convenient. The base of the needle may be an octagonal, hollow, metallic cylinder fitting directly on to the terminal of the lead as recommended by Brocq. This arrangement obviates the use of a heavy needle-holder, and is far the most convenient for manipu- lation in awkward situations such as beneath the chin. The indifferent electrode is usually a large metallic cylinder covered with wash-leather and moistened with salt solution. A lens is usually of advantage and none is more efficient than an ordinary watchmaker's glass. ' The patient should be in a semi-recumbent position on a couch in a good light. The positive electrode may be laid on a piece of mac- kintosh on the patient's lap, so that she may grasp it when required. Five cells are then put in circuit and, while the indifferent electrode is lying loose on the patient's lap, the needle, attached to the negative pole, is introduced into the neck of the follicle. The direction of the needle should be parallel to that of the hair. In this position, with no current flowing, the sense of touch will inform one, after a little experience, whether the needle is entering the follicle or attempting to pierce the skin. The patient is then instructed to grasp the positive electrode firmly, and the strength of current as indicated by the galvanometer is noted. For the first trial, a strength of about one milliampere is sufficient. After a few seconds, bubbles of hydrogen will be seen issuing from the mouth of the follicle, and shortly afterwards a somewhat yellowish transparent zone win appear around the mouth of the foUicle. This is the zone of total necrosis ; immediately it appears the patient must be instructed to drop the positive electrode. This yellowish zone should neve? be allowed to gain a diameter larger than that of a small pin's head, otherwise the scar left will be manifest to the naked eye. The needle is now withdrawn, and after a moment or two the hair may be pulled very gently with epilation forceps. If the operation has been successful, the hair will slide out of the follicle without offering the slightest resistance, and will bring with it the macerated and gelatinous-looking inner root-sheath. If the hair is not loosened, the current must be increased for other hairs, but it must never pass four milliamperes for even the stoutest. A medium strength for the chin is about two and a half milhamperes, while one and a half will usually suffice for the upper lip. As regards the time during which the current should be passing, from five to fifteen seconds will generally suffice. On no account must hairs be taken during one sitting, which are so close that their respective zones of necrosis must touch. ' It is better never to introduce the electrode for a second time into a foUicle, when the first application has failed to loosen the hair. The needle is sure to run down the false passage made on the first introduction,