AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 238 disease has lasted for some time. Hence excision, which secures a useful movable joint after a short convalescence, eradication of the disease, and diminished danger of deposit of tubercle elsewhere, is distinctly preferable to expectant methods, which demand a long time, leave the patient subject to risks of infection elsewhere, and at the best give a stiff joint which is of comparatively little use. Excision of the Shoulder-joint.—We recommend the following method. The patient should lie upon his back with a firm pillow or sand-bag beneath the affected shoulder, which is drawn well to the side of the table. The arm should be slightly abducted and rotated outwards. The surgeon stands on the outer side of the joint and makes an incision about four inches in length, commencing just ex- ternal to the tip of the coracoid process, and extending down- wards and outwards parallel to the anterior border of the deltoid (see Fig. 97). It is well to curve the incision outwards at the lower end and to detach a portion of the insertion of the deltoid. In this way the region of the joint can be exposed much more freely than is possible by simply retracting a straight incision. The divided fibres of the deltoid can be stitched together afterwards (see Vol. II. p. 63). The dissection is carried down to the thickened capsule at the upper part of the incision, and the tendon of the long head of the biceps must be looked for ; it is brought into view if the arm is rotated slightly outwards. The biceps tendon should be freed from its sheath, and pulled inwards if it is healthy ; if, however, the disease extends down the bicipital groove it must be dissected out. The finger is then passed beneath the deltoid muscle, which is pulled forcibly outwards. Should the del- toid bursa be affected, it must be removed, the arm being fully abducted and the deltoid muscle everted. The front part of the capsule is defined and isolated from the structures lying over it, and the Fig. 96.—Weight Extension applied for Tuberculous Shoulder-joint Disease. The extension is made with the arm in the abducted position. In the tigure above, however, the arm is rotated too much inwards. The forearm should be raised almost into the vertical position by using a thick wedge cushion, with its base beneath the hand ; it will then correspond to the position of the limb seen in the preceding figure.