469 TUMOURS wards towards the hyoid bone, and finally upwards to the angle of the jaw. This flap is dissected up, the deep fascia divided, and the glandular area exposed and removed. In removing the submaxillary gland the facial artery and vein will be divided, but care must be taken to push up the branch of the facial nerve going to the lower lip. Through this incision the submental glands can also be removed by retracting the wound well, but if necessary the incision may be prolonged along the lower border of the chin towards the opposite side. Should the submental glands alone be enlarged, the best incision for their removal is a curved one beneath the chin parallel to the lower border of the jaw and somewhat nearer to the latter than to the hyoid bone (see Fig. 208). The enlarged glands are generally superficial to the genio-hyoid muscle, but they are sometimes found between and even beneath these muscles, so that a careful search must be made to see that all are removed before the opera- tion is finished. If necessary, any enlarged glands can generally be made more prominent by having the floor of the mouth pushed well downwards by an assistant, so as to make the submental region project. When the primary disease is more advanced and the incision for the disease in the lip would join that for the glands, and especially when the glands in the anterior triangle are also affected, it is often best to operate on separate occasions. In that case the glands should be removed, in the first place, unless the primary disease is advancing rapidly, and then the operation on the lip performed about a week later ; the wound in the neck will then have practically healed before it is exposed to septic infection. When, however, the primary disease is so advanced that no time must be lost in dealing with it, the order of operating must be revei'sed. When the disease is so extensive that a plastic operation is required after removal of the primarj' growth, it will be unnecessary to make special incisions for the removal of the enlarged glands, as those requisite for the plastic operation will generally be carried below the jaw and will permit free access to the glands. Wlioi the glands are not noticeably enlarged, opinions differ as to the advisability of removing the glandular area at once, or of waiting to see if enlargement occurs. If the primary growth is quite small and begins in the skin, and if the patient is old, it is quite allowable to wait and see whether the glands enlarge, but if the growth is of fair size and spreading Fig. 208.—Incision for the removal of the Submental Lymphatic Glands.