DISEASES OF THE ANKLE-JOINT AND TARSUS TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF THE FIRST METATARSAL. The disease usually begins in the interior of the base of the bone, and the pus may gradually find its way outwards, on the inner or anterior aspect of the bone, or it may open into the articulation between it and the internal cuneiform, and infect the synovial membrane of that joint. TREATMENT.—When llw disease remains limited to the interior of the bone, the best treatment is to remove the proximal half of the metatarsal bone, cutting it through beyond the tuberculous focus. In this way the disease is cured at once, and the risk of infection of the tarsal joints, which is always present if palliative treatment is adopted, is avoided. The functional result is excellent, as the remaining portion of the bone does not get di"awn up very much. The operation is easily done through an incision in the long axis of the bone a little to the inner side of the extensor tendon ; this in- cision should extend nearly to the metatarso-phalangeal joint below, and well o\'er the internal cunei- form above (see Fig. 93). The periosteum and soft tissues are detached from the bone ; the anterior and internal ligaments connecting it with the internal <)3.-incision for removal of a tuber- ^ _ cuLous Deposit from the base of the first cuneiform are divided, the bone metatarsal bone. partially sawn across beyond the disease, and the division completed with cutting-pliers. The divided end of the bone is then seized, and pulled inwards and the ligaments between it and the cuneiform on the outer side, and the connections between the first and second metatarsal bones are divided. After the bone has been removed, the cut surfaces must be examined to see if they are healthy, and any diseased synovial membrane about the internal cuneiform should be completely removed. When a healthy surface is obtained everywhere, the wound is stitched up without a drainage tube and cyanide dressings are applied. The wound fills with blood-clot which organises, and after two or three months the patient may be allowed to walk. In the meantime, the foot should be encased in plaster of Paris as soon as the wound has healed, care being taken to see that the affected metatarsal bone is parallel to its fellow. When the tarsal joints have become affetted from extension of the disease to the synovial membrane, the treatment is that of diffuse disease of the tarsus {vide infra), although in a few cases in which the disease is limited to the immediate neighbourhood of the metatarsal bone it may suffice in the first instance to remove the proximal end of the bone