DISEASES OF THE KNEE-JOINT 205 out; a thin slice of tlie articular cartilage should be shaved off with the knife, so as to insure that the whole of the synovial membrane is removed. The next step is to wash out the joint with i in 8000 sublimate solution so as to remove all the pus. When this has been done, a transverse incision is made over the patella and the bone sawn across, the cut surfaces of the bone being immediately covered with a piece of gauze soaked in i in 2000 sublimate solution, and the two flaps thrown upwards and downwards. The cartilage covering the patella is examined and, if it shows any appearance of being affected, a thin layer is shaved off. The knee is now fully flexed, and the semilunar cartilages are removed, all the synovial membrane around the articular edges being most care- fully pared away. The crucial ligaments and the structures in the intercondyloid notch are then examined and cleaned. At this stage of the disease it will generally be found that the ligaments are intact, although they are often covered with pulpy synovial membrane. Great care must be taken to remove every portion of synovial membrane from the intercondyloid notch. The synovial membrane at the side of the joint should next be attacked, and in most cases it will be necessary to divide the lateral ligaments, after having effected separation between them and the synovial membrane with a blunt instrument. When this has been done, the whole of the lateral portion of the synovial membrane on each side can be removed entire by pulling the soft tissues aside and detaching the synovial membrane from the articular edges of the femur and the tibia. The last point is the method of dealing with the posterior part of the synovial membrane. In many cases this can be removed without dividing the crucial ligaments, which it is well to leave intact if it is desired to obtain a movable joint afterwards. As a rule, it is easy to separate the synovial membrane in the popliteal space by means of the finger and a blunt instrument, and, after fully flexing the knee, to pass the finger across from side to side and upwards and downwards behind the synovial membrane. When this has been done, all that remains is to detach that structure from its attachment to the articular cartilage. When no tourniquet has been applied, the popliteal artery can be felt pulsating behind the finger and forms a useful guide in the manipulations. The articular surfaces must now be systematically examined, and wherever there is any greyness, roughness, or vascularity of the cartilage, its surface should be shaved off with a sharp knife and any pits in it carefully cut out ; if there be a hole in the cartilage leading down to the bone, this should be scooped out, first with a knife and afterwards with a gouge. The bleeding is finally arrested and the divided ligaments sutured. If