354 AFFECTIONS OF THE SKULL GUNSHOT WOUNDS. Gunshot and shell wounds of the head are met with both in civil and in military practice. The principles of treatment are the same in both cases, but the military surgeon labours under special disadvantages inseparable from war. In the majority of cases a considerable time must elapse before the patient reaches him, and there may be a further delay before conditions suitable for a surgical operation are obtainable. Even when an operation has been performed, the constant removal of the patient from place to place, necessitated by the movements of the army, considerably prejudices the result. In spite of these difficulties, however, the lines of treatment laid down for civil practice should be followed as strictly as circumstances permit. The character of these injuries varies considerably, according to the nature of the arm with which they are inflicted, the size, shape, and velocity of the projectile, and the angle at which it strikes the skull. Gunshot wounds may affect the soft tissues only or may injure the bones as well. INJURY TO THE SCALP ALONE.—In some cases the bullet may pass so superficially that it misses the bones altogether, or it may glance off the smooth surface of the skuU, or its energy may be so slight that it only penetrates the scalp, flattening itself against the bone and remaining as a subcutaneous foreign body. In addition to the local injury, these patients frequently suffer from concussion. These wounds are always contused and may be infected before they come under the care of the surgeon ; the treatment differs in no way from that already described for ordinary contused scalp wounds (see p. 328). INJURY TO THE BONB—Severe inpiries to the cranial bones are produced by fragments of shell, the irregular slugs used by savage tribes, and the old-fashioned, round leaden buUets discharged at close range. The modern conical bullet at close range produces an ex- plosive effect in passing through the skull, which often kills the patient at once, while at long ranges this explosive effect may not occur, and the patient may survive the immediate injury. Remarkable cases have been recorded in which patients have recovered after the most extensive injuries of this character. In some cases, death is not instantaneous, the patient remains comatose and dies in a few hours; in others the symptoms of concussion and laceration appear and pass off, leaving the patient with an extensive wound, at the bottom of which the brain substance is exposed. Treatment.—The first points to be attended to are the arrest of the haemorrhage, and the disinfection of the wound. These are effected on the lines already laid down; in performing disinfection, there should be no hesitation about the employment of strong antiseptics, the chemical irritation being a small matter as compared with the risk of sepsis. All