AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD 370 Gushing recommends that a sub-temporal decompression operation (see p. 438) should be performed in the majority of these cases. He claims that by this procedure the risks of after-complications are mini- mised, and that it is possible, by exploring the brain, to determine more accurately the extent of the injury, and to adopt appropriate measures for its treatment. This view has not yet received general acceptance, but the suggestion should be borne in mind. COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN. After the symptoms of concussion have passed off, the patient may either remain weU or he may again lapse into unconsciousness, from which it may be impossible to arouse him. This unconsciousness is due to compression of the brain, which may arise from various causes. When there has been no recovery from the concussion the compression may be due to a depressed fracture (see p. 341), usuaUy comphcated with intra- cranial haemorrhage. When the symptoms of compression come on a few hours after the injury, they are probably due to intra-cranial haemorrhage alone ; if they supervene at a later period, they are usually the result of cerebral inflammation and suppuration. The general symptoms of compression of the brain are profound loss of consciousness, stertorous breathing, and slow pulse. The pupils are usually dilated and fixed ; in cases due to rupture of the middle meningeal artery the pupU on the side of the lesion is generally larger than its fellow. If the pressure is not relieved, the patient may remain unconscious for some hours and then die from gradual heart failure. INTRA-CRANIAL HAEMORRHAGE. Haemorrhage occurring inside the skull may be either extra-dural or sub-dural; sub-dural haemorrhage again may be beneath the dura mater, or into the pia mater, or into the substance of the brain. When the haemorrhage occurs rapidly after an in ury and in such amount as to give rise to marked compression after a lucid interval, it is probably extra-dural and most frequently results from rupture of the middle meningeal artery or one of its branches. In other cases it may be due to rupture of one of the vessels of the pia mater, or again there may be rupture of one of the large venous sinuses in the brain; here the symptoms are more gradual in onset, partly because the bleeding is slower and also partly because this condition is usuaUy associated with fracture, and some of the blood may therefore escape externally. Lumbar puncture is often of great diagnostic value in these cases. If the haemorrhage is entirely extra-dural there will be no alteration in the cerebro-spinal fluid ; in intra-dural haemorrhage, on the other hand, the fluid win contain blood (see p. 444).