SUPPURATION FROM MIDDLE-EAR DISEASE out all clot with a stream of warm normal saline solution. Should the mastoid vein be thrombosed, the opening in the bone should be enlarged and the thrombus scraped out with a small spoon. Any clot extending backwards along the lateral sinus should also be removed by scraping and flushing until the entire thrombus has been cleared out—in fact, until free bleeding from the sinus occurs. In order to lay the whole infected area freely open it may be necessary to continue the removal of bone backwards for some considerable distance. The cavity should be packed with gauze, which readil}' arrests the bleeding, and, as a rule, nothing further need be done. It is now best to wait and see whether the symptoms are relieved by what has been done, or whether further symptoms indicating lepto- meningitis or cerebral abscess appear in the course of forty-eight hours. Should no such symptoms arise, the packing is renewed daily until granulation is complete, when the skin flaps may be brought together, a drainage tube being substituted for the packing. The internal jugular vein is not of course the only communication between the lateral sinus and the general circulation, but it is the main one, and, as a matter of practical experience, it is found that a good result often follows if that vein is ligatured early in the course of the case in the manner just described. Treatment of an Extra-dural Abscess. - When the general symptoms are very grave, it is advisable to carry the treatment further before closing the wound and to ascertain whether sub-dural suppuration exists. If the lateral sinus and its groove are healthy, the most likely place to find pus is above the middle ear. The roof of the attic is not uncommonly diseased, and there may even be a perforation in it from which pus escapes. It should therefore be exposed and the dura mater lifted up from it ; if diseased bone is found, as much as possible should be removed so as to provide free drainage. The best method of exam- ining the condition of the dura mater over the roof of the attic and the adjacent part of the petrous bone is to enlarge the opening already made for exposure of the antrum directly upwards and a little forwards. The prominent ridge formed by the posterior or horizontal root of the zygoma, which is prolonged backwards as the commencement of the temporal ridge, is easil}^ identified and serves as a landmark. It corresponds to the level of the under-surface of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe and the upper surface of the petrous bone, upon which the latter lies. The removal of the skull should therefore be carried well above this ridge (see Fig. 170), until the dura mater is exposed. The dura is now separated from the petrous bone with a suitable blunt spatula (see Fig. 171), and raised so that the bone may be examined and any pus may escape ; any diseased bone should be cut or scraped away with a small gouge or sharp spoon. The semicircular canals must be carefully avoided. When there is pus in this situation, a strip of gauze should III. D D