AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 94 cases ten drops may be injected into the joint itself; in about ten minutes fairly free movements can be carried out without pain. If move- ments and massage are begun as soon as the acute inflammatory stage has subsided, they should be carried out gently. There will then be no great trouble with adhesions, and there may be no necessity for break- ing them down under an anaesthetic at a later date. Should it be necessary to keep the joint at rest for a prolonged period, however, the adhesions may become so firm that they will not yield to gentle massage and movement. This matter is referred to again in connection with anchylosis (see Chap. XVIII.). ACUTE SUPPURATIVE ARTHRITIS. This is an acute inflammation involving all the structures entering into the formation of a joint, and is due to the presence of pyogenic organisms. It may follow a wound of a joint, but it may also occur without any wound in diseases—such as pyaemia, acute septic infection, and acute epiphysitis—in which pyogenic organisms have gained access to the joint from the blood. When pyogenic organisms gain access to a joint the synovial mem- brane becomes intensely congested and swollen, and pours out large quantities of synovial fluid mixed with pus. The bone beneath the cartilages becomes inflamed ; the cartilages soften and exfoliate, whilst the ligaments become swollen and softened, and before long the articu- lation is completely disorganised and the bones are dislocated by muscular action. There is considerable risk of a fatal result from some form of septic disease—sucli as septicaemia or pyaemia. Abscesses may form around the joint and burrow in the fascial planes, and there may be deformit}/ of the limb due to partial dislocation of the articular surfaces from the pull of strong muscles which are no longer opposed by the ligaments. When the affection is subsiding, the synovial pouches become obliterated by firm fibrous adhesions, whilst fibrous tissue forms between the opposed cartilaginous surfaces ; should the cartilages be entirely destroyed, bony union may take place between the joint surfaces. TRFjATMEjNT.—This has been described in connection with the treatment of septic wounds of joints (see p. 86). The first point is to decide whether an attempt should be made to save the limb ; this depends chiefly on the constitution and age of the patient, and the se\'erity of the local and general symptoms. When an attempt is made to save the limb, the first essential is to provide free exit for the pus. The details for the drainage of joints in general will be found on p. 87. Here we shall merely indicate the best incisions for the various joints. No hesitation need be felt about making free incisions, for anchylosis is almost certain to occur in any