29 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER When there is no comphcation calhng for an incision, the dislocation should be reduced and the case watched to see if the nerve recovers its functions. If there is only bruising or slight extravasation of blood, recovery will take place readily, and within a fortnight or three weeks there should be definite signs of improvement. As regards electricity, the faradaic current should be used unless it fails to cause contraction, when the galvanic current should be sub- stituted for it. The current should not be allowed to flow continuously, since it is only at the ' make ' and ' break ' that the muscle is stimulated. The current may be made and broken by a key or by repeatedly lifting the electrode which is over the muscle. The negative pole should be applied over the paralysed muscle, the positive being over the spine, and a current sufficiently strong to cause definite but" not painful contractions should be passed for about ten minutes daily. If no sign of recovery be evident in two or three weeks, it may be assumed that the nerve is seriously damaged, and operative interfer- ence is necessary. The nerve must be cut down upon and examined, and the ends, if torn, accurately sutured. If there is compression by blood or cicatricial tissue, the blood must be turned out or the cicatricial tissue removed ; if the nerve structure has been destroyed by bruising without solution of continuity, excision of the damaged part foUowed by im- mediate union of the divided ends will be indicated. These operations are fuhy described in Vol. II. Chap. X. TREATMENT OF COMPOUND DISLOCATIONS. This rare complication usually occurs as part of an extensive injury ; there is generally such damage to the surrounding parts that amputation is not uncommonly required. Should the condition of affairs justify an attempt to save the limb, however, the surgeon must enlarge the wound, disinfect it and the skin around (see p. 85), and must then replace the head of the bone, insert a drainage-tube at the most convenient spot, suture the bulk of the rent in the capsule if possible, and treat the case on ordinary lines. If there are no signs of sepsis, passive movement must be begun in four or five days, otherwise there will be great danger of firm adhesions. Should the attempt at disinfection fail, or should the patient not be seen until suppuration has been established, the treatment wiU be that for a suppurating joint (see Chap. XII.). The articulation must be opened up freely, every facility provided for the escape of pus, and irrigation of the joint employed. If the condition be grave, the question of amputation will arise, and will be determined by the rules laid down for the treatment of septic wounds of joints (see Chap. XL).