324 AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD unless there is a wound it is not necessary to shave the head. The patient must be confined to bed, or at any rate to the horizontal position. The cold should only be continued as long as the haematoma increases in size ; it will generally be required for about twenty-four hours. After that, if the haimatona is small and there is no reason to suspect any other injury, such as a fracture of the skull, little further need be done. The patient may be allowed to go about, but should be cautioned to avoid irritating the part by the pressure of the hat and to be careful not to injure or scratch the scalp when combing the hair. Absorption of the fluid usually takes place readily. 2. To hasten absorption.—When absorption does not occur, which is most likely to happen when the effusion of blood is large, a blood-cyst may result and the treatment of that condition is often troublesome. When absorption has come to a standstill, it is well to apply pressure, and this is best done by means of an elastic bandage outside a large mass of cotton-wool. This arrangement should be kept on for two or three days and reapplied as often as is necessary. When no elastic bandage is available, pressure may be applied by means of an ordinary bandage put on in the following manner. A large mass of cotton-wool several inches thick and large enough to overlap the hematoma in all directions for at least a couple of inches is applied over the surface. About eight or ten strips of stout unbleached cahco bandage three inches wide and about a yard long are then laid over the scalp in such a way that they radiate from the centre of the sagittal suture over which the middle of each strip is placed ; the ends hang down on opposite sides of the head. The strips are next firmly fixed in place by a few horizontal turns of a bandage encircling the skull from the root of the nose in front to below the external occipital protuberance behind. After this has been fastened, the cor- responding ends of each strip are taken one by one in each hand and pulled upon tightly so as to stretch the bandage and make it exert pressure over the cotton-wool. They are then turned up and knotted together over the wool (see Fig. 137). In this manner a certain amount of pressure, equally diffused in all directions, can be exerted over the tumour. The pressure obtained in this way is, however, not nearly so efficient as that obtained by the elastic bandage. Pressure should be continued for about a fortnight or longer, provided absorption goes on steadily. In some cases absorption comes to a standstill in spite of the above treatment, the central portion of the clot becomes fluid and a blood-cyst is formed. Under such circumstances the cure will be expedited by evacuating the fluid portion of the swelling. This can be readily done by means of a fuU-sized aspirating needle, but great care must be taken to purify the scalp in the vicinity of the puncture, otherwise the needle may carry in infective material from the skin and suppuration may result. It is not, as a rule, necessary to shave the part to be punctured, but it is well to clip away a few hairs around the point where the needle