CHAPTER XIII. TUBERCULOSIS OF JOINTS. Tuberculosis is one of the commonest affections of joints and may end in disorganisation of the articulation. The disease is due to the tubercle bacillus, aided by some predisposing or exciting cause, and generally follows a slight injury or sprain in a person who is the subject of tubercu- losis elsewhere, or in whose blood tubercle bacilh happen to be present. PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES.—As a rule the disease begins as a localised deposit in the joint. It is only in rare cases, such as in acute tuberculosis, that the affection commences with an eruption of tubercles over the whole of the joint. The typical form of the disease met with in surgical practice is the result of the spread of the tuberculous infection from one or more foci until the whole joint becomes affected. These primary foci may be situated in the cancellous ends of the bone or in the synovial membrane, and the early symptoms of the disease and its treat- ment differ considerably according to the mode of origin. Primary deposits of tubercle in the bone are perhaps most common in children, whilst in adults the affection more frequently starts in the synovial membrane. There is not, however, a great difference between the frequency in the two cases. Primary Osseous deposits.—These commence as a localised tuber- culous osteo-myelitis, and one of two results may foUow as the deposit extends. The softening of the bone in which the tubercle is deposited mav lead to the formation of a soft cascating deposit; or sclerosis of the bone trabeculae may occur, with marked thickening of the bone, caseation of the tissue in the remains of the alveolar spaces, ultimate necrosis of this portion of the sclerosed bone and the formation of a sequestrum. Hence, when there is a tuberculous focus in a bone, a soft caseating deposit or a tuberculous sequestrum or both may be met with. The tuberculous focus gradually increases in size and makes its way to the surface of the bone, which it may reach either beneath the articular cartilage—which is most frequently the case—or just at or beyond the point of reflection of the no