507 PLASTIC SURGERY of paraffin. Formerly, liquefied paraffin with a low melting-point was employed, but this method has so many disadvantages that it has been practically abandoned. Recently, however, the plan of injecting solid paraffin has been introduced, and this has yielded results which are much superior to those formerly obtained. The instrument used is shown in Fig. 234; it possesses a barrel into which a candle of solid paraffin is inserted. To one end of this barrel a hollow needle is connected, through which the paraffin can be forced in the form of a thin thread ; the mechanism for this consists of a piston worked by a lever which acts at a great mechanical advantage. The needle is inserted at the lowest point of the depression, and by repeatedly working the lever a thread of solid parafiin is forced out, the needle being withdrawn when sufficient has been introduced. The nose is then moulded into shape b}^ pressure on the skin outside and the puncture sealed. This method bids fair to displace all others in cases in which there is no marked tilting forwards of the nares, but operation is necessary when there is marked chsplacement of the tip. Operative methods.~K vertical incision is made from the root of the nose downwards and is continued on to the cartilage for about a quarter of an inch. The soft tissues are divided down to the remains of the nasal bones and cartilage. Transverse incisions are also carried across both ends of this vertical incision, and two lateral flaps are thus formed exposing the remains of the nasal spine and the upper part of the cartilage; these are raised along with any periosteum or fragments of the nasal bones that may be present. The cartilaginous portion of the nose is next separated from its junction with "the remains of the bony portion by a transverse incision, which passes into the nasal cavity and which must also be carried through the cartilaginous septum sufficiently far to enable the tip of the nose to be pulled down into its normal position. Fig. 234.—Syringe for the Injection of Solid Paraffin.