6i DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP TREATMENT OF THE IRREGULAR FORMS OF DISLOCATION. Manipulations are of no avail in the irregular dislocations, because the Y-ligament is torn and there is therefore no fixed point around which the head of the bone can be made to rotate. Traction downwards and forwards with the thigh somewhat flexed is the only procedure that is of use ; while it is being carried out, the surgeon should alternately rotate the limb inwards or outwards, and also adduct or abduct it, accord- ing to the position that the head of the bone occupies with regard to the acetabulum ; this will generally succeed in reducing the dislocation. When the y-ligament only has been torn, there is usually no difficulty in retaining the head of the bone in position after reduction, but it is expedient to keep the joint at rest for some weeks before the patient is allowed to stand, so as to facilitate the repair of this structure. The best splint to employ is a long Liston (see Vol. II. p. 371), but this must be taken off daily for passive movement. When the margin of the acetabulum has been broken off, the after-treat- ment is much more difficult, as there is a constant tendency to recurrence of the displacement. It is imperative, therefore, to keep up extension in the fully abducted position—which is best done by weight and pulley (see Vol. II. p. 365)—until union of the fractured surfaces is complete. In the meantime careful passive movement must be carried out by the surgeon. TREATMENT OF UNREDUCED DISLOCATION. When a dislocation of the hip has remained unreduced for some time, marked changes take place in the joint. The head of the femur becomes broader than normal, whilst the acetabulum becomes shallower and may be filled up with fibrous tissue, which in parts may undergo ossification. The ruptured capsule becomes shortened ajid adherent, so that reduction of the dislocation is a matter of absolute impossibility after the lapse of a few weeks. It is impossible to reduce the dislocation if more than six weeks have elapsed from the time of the accident, and if reduction is deemed desirable operative measures will be necessary. In some cases, however, when the bones are fixed, and also when a long time has elapsed since the injury, an operation may not be necessary or desirable. Operative Measures.—Immediately prior to operating for the relief of unreduced dislocation, the limb should be freely moved in aU directions, and all movements should be carried to their fullest limit. An incision is commenced just below the anterior superior iliac spine and carried downwards and forwards for about four inches in the interval between the tensor fasciae femoris and the sartorius. The deep fascia of the thigh is divided, the muscles above mentioned are pulled apart,