7 UNREDUCED DISLOCATIONS and this ma\' prove quite as good as anything that could be obtained for the patient by other measures. Tlie conditions which would lead one to adopt this course are that there are no pressure symptoms and that the functional result is hkely to be good. When the displaced bone presses upon ner^"e5 and causes pain, and when the movements of the joint are greatly hmited, the surgeon may adopt the second course and cut down upon the displaced ends and attempt to replace them in position, thus re-establishing the joint. This is sometimes possible, even when a long time has elapsed since the accident. Before, however, the ends of the bones can be got into place, it is usually necessary to divide a number of structures—particularly muscles—surrounding the joint, and it may be advisable also to restore the original contour of the joint surfaces, so as to prevent recurrence of the dislocation. A good estmiate of the chances of success from this procedure can often be made by inspection of a stereoscopic radiogram before operation, but actual possibilities can, however, only be ascertained b}' direct inspection of the parts. If it is possible to replace the articular ends of the bones without extensi\'e di\-ision of important structures and to suture the capsule, a satisfactory result is likely to be obtained, although even here there is al^\■a^•s a liability to traumatic arthritis in elderly subjects. The third coiurse which, howe\'er, should only be adopted when neither of the foregoing is practicable, is excision of one or both of the articular surfaces of the affected joint. It generally suitices to excise one articular surface, and the raw siurface of bone left should be covered \\ith soft tissue to prevent anchylosis (see p. 153). In some joints—such as the elbow—tliis ma.y lead to an excellent result ; in others, as the hip or shoulder, it may not be advisable. This question will be discussed in connection with dislocation of the individual joints. OTHER FORMS OF DISLOCATION. So far, we ha\'e been speaking of traumatic dislocations ; of the other forms referred to on p. i the majority are described elsewhere. Re- curring dislocations will be referred to under dislocations of the shoulder- joint, in which they are most common (see p. 34); and congenital dislocation of the hip has alreadj* been dealt with in Vol. II. As regards pathological dislocations occurring in the course of acute febrile diseases, their patholog}" and anatomy are quite different from that of traumatic dislocations. The capsule, instead of being ruptured, is softened and stretched, and the bone simph- slips out of its socket. The treatment is to pull the bone back into place, if possible, as soon as the condition is discovered, and to retain it there by apparatus and extension until the softening process has passed off. Attempts must then be made to restore the fimction b\- massage and movements.