ii6 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS another. The first requisite therefore is to place the part absolutely at rest, and it is striking to see the improvement that sometimes results from this even in bad cases. The means adopted wiU vary with the joint affected, but consists essentially in the application of suitable spUnts. Extension.—In many cases, however, particularly when the articular cartilages have been destroyed and the bony surfaces are carious, the inflammatory condition is kept up not so much by movement as by the tonic contraction of the muscles surrounding the joint, which press the inflamed surfaces against one another. One of the symptoms that enables the surgeon to diagnose extension of the disease to the bone is this fixation of the joint which, in the early stages, is not due to anchylosis, but to reflex contraction of the muscles surrounding the joint. The resulting pressure of the inflamed surfaces against each other keeps up the inflammation in the bone, and rapid destruction of the bony surfaces which are in contact also takes place. This is well seen in the hip, for example, where flattening of the upper surface of the head and enlarge- ment of the acetabulum upwards and backwards occur before long, unless means are adopted to prevent this pressure. It is important to remember that this condition of contraction is almost pathognomonic of destruction of the articular cartilages and extension of the disease to the bone. In pure synovial disease there may be very marked swelling of the joint, but there will be comparatively little interference with movement, and nothing like complete rigidity. Hence, when the bone is inflamed it is impossible to obtain proper rest to the joint by any form of fixation apparatus. The muscles are able to contract and press the inflamed surfaces together in spite of it, and thus perpetuate the inflammatory condition. It is therefore necessary to combine with immobihsation of the joint an amount of extension of the limb which is sufficient to tu"e out the contracted muscles, cause them to relax, and thus relieve the pressure of the inflamed surfaces against one another. Actual separation of the joint surfaces is not the object of extension, and, as its only aim is to tire out the muscles and prevent them from pressing the inflamed surfaces together, only a very moderate weight is required. In the case of pure synovial disease without marked rigidity of the muscles, there is no object in employing extension unless deformity is present—in fact, extension would almost certainly do harm by stretching the inflamed ligaments, and would thus keep up the chronic inflammation. On the other hand, when the bony surfaces have become affected, great and immediate relief foUows the employment of moderate extension; the pain ceases, and the nocturnal startings, which are the most distressing symptoms of this condition, are overcome. It must be remembered, however, that an amount of extension which is necessary to reheve the patient's pain at first may, if continued after the tonic muscular con-