PLASTIC SURGERY Two operations may be employed : in the one, the skin to form the new nose is obtained from the forehead—the Indian method ; in the other, it is obtained from the arm—the Italian or Taghacotian method ; neither gives a really satisfactory result. It is possible that a better result might be obtained in the Indian method if the flaps were provided with a thin layer of bone chipped off from the frontal bone, instead of only containing periosteum. The defect in the nose is prepared for the reception of the forehead flap. Instead of paring the actual edges of the gap, a double flap may be made by carrying the incision about a quarter of an inch outside its margin and turning in small flaps with A B Fig. 237.—The Indian Method of Rhinoplasty. In the figure the flap on the forehead is shaped so as to form two nasal apertures when in position {B). In practice it is better to cut it with a depression in place of the projection destined to be the columella ; this gives a single large nasal aperture, and is much better. their skin surface directed towards the nasal cavity and the raw surface outwards on which the forehead flap is super-imposed. When skin is present over the remains of the nasal bones, an extra long flap may with advantage be taken above, and turned down so as to fill up a considerable part of the gap. The outer surface of these flaps adheres to the under surface of the superficial flap and diminishes the amount of subsequent contraction. The Indian method.—Before the operation, a model of suitable size and shape is cut from a piece of thin gutta-percha tissue which is flattened out, laid on the forehead and used as a guide for the formation of the flap ; the incision should run about a quarter of an inch outside the pattern, so as to allow for shrinking. The flap should be made somewhat to one side of the centre of the forehead, its base being to the left of the root of the nose. By placing the flap somewhat obliquely, there is less twisting of the base in adjusting it in position and consequently less risk of