196 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS In our opinion the choice of procedure Hes between free drainage with irrigation, and amputation. When the disease is not due to pyaemia and occurs without a wound, the epiphyses of the femur and the tibia and also the patella should be examined for signs of acute osteo-myelitis ; should this disease be present and an attempt be made to save the limb, the medulla must be thoroughly opened up and any dead bone or collections of pus evacuated. GONOCOCCAL ARTHRITIS. This condition has already been fully discussed (see p. 99) and, as the knee is the joint in which the trouble most frequently occurs, the remarks made there are particularly applicable to this joint and need not be repeated. It is important to bear in mind the great tendency to stiffness after gonococcal arthritis, and therefore passive movements must be begun as soon as the acute symptoms have passed off. SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS. The knee is the joint most frequently affected both in the secondary and tertiary stages. What has already been said with regard to the treatment of the various forms of syphilis of joints (see p. 131) may be taken as applying to the particular joint under notice. TUBERCULOUS DISEASE. This affection is more common in adults than in children, and may commence either in the synovial membrane or in the bone, probably more frequently in the latter. As age advances, the proportion of primary bone cases with sequestra (as compared with soft caseating deposits) increases very markedly. The osseous deposits especially affect the epiphyses of the bones ; sometimes they occur in the shaft of the bone outside the epiphyseal line, but this is rare, though it is sometimes the case in the tibia. In the femur the internal condyle is the most common seat of the primary deposit. The patella is rarely affected primarily. In the synovial membrane localised tuberculous deposits, particularly in the form of pedunculated masses hanging into the joint, are sometimes seen, but most commonly the disease in the synovial membrane is diffuse. Apart from the localised deposits referred to above it is convenient to consider the clinical history of the ordinary cases in which the disease is more or less diffuse as being divided, from the point of view of treatment, into five stages according to the sjTnptoms and local conditions present.