FRACTURES OF THE VAULT OF THE SKULL 341 FRACTURE OF BOTH TABLES OF THE SKULL. Fractures of the skull vary in character according to the nature of the instrument which causes the injury and the direction in which the force is applied. They are usually divided into three main groups, namely, fissured fractures, depressed or comminuted fractures, and punctured fractures. Fissured Fractures.—These can only be recognised when the surface of the bone is exposed. When there is no wound, the existence of a fissure may be suspected when complications, such as intra-cranial haemorrhage, or traumatic cephal-hydrocele, are present. As a rule there is no noticeable difference in level between the two portions of the bone, but the internal table is more widely fractured than the external, and portions of the former may project downwards on to the dura mater. Depressed Fractures.—Depressed fractures may be simple or compound ; as a rule, they are compound. The bone is broken up into several fragments according to the degree of violence producing the fracture ; some of these fragments may be loose, so that there is a true comminuted fracture; others again may be only partly detached ; even these may be bent downwards and exert pressure on the brain. In addition, it is usual to find fissures of the skull radiating from the area of comminution. The internal table is always more extensively broken up and more detached than the external, so that the amount of injury evident externally does not fully indicate the amount of damage in the deeper parts. These fractures are always associated with more or less haemorrhage, and the amount of blood effused beneath the skull is the chief cause of the symptoms of compression which may follow. It is seldom that the bone is sufficiently depressed to cause general compression symptoms of itself, although when the depression is over a motor area it may give rise to paralysis or to symptoms of irritation of that area. When the general symptoms characteristic of compression are associated with a depressed fracture, it will generally be found that there is a collection of blood between the bone and the dura mater, in addition to the depression of the latter. The haemorrhage in these cases may be severe and usually occurs from branches of the middle meningeal artery. It may also result from injury to one of the sinuses of the brain, or from laceration of the brain at the site of the injury, or at the opposite pole of the skull. This condition of intra-cranial haemorrhage is considered on p. 370. Punctured Fractures.—Punctured wounds of the skull are caused by some pointed instrument, such as a bayonet or a sword. The fractures are always compound and the inner table of the skull is often more extensively fractured than the external. In a punctured