38o AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD membranes, leading to violent headaches, epileptiform convulsions, or mental derangement. After the skull has been opened and the dura mater divided, the clot should be removed by gentle irrigation with warm sterilised salt solution. Any bleeding points should be picked up and twisted or tied. As a rule the haemorrhage from the smaller vessels can be easily arrested by gentle pressure with a hot sponge. After the bleeding has quite ceased, the opening in the dura mater shoiild be stitched up, the portions of bone replaced and the wound sutured. Some surgeons place a piece of gold- foil or other material between the brain and the dura mater, in order to prevent adhesions. If there has been much haemorrhage, it is weU to put in a few threads of horse-hair to act as a drain. H^MGRIIHAGB FROM OTHER VESSELS.—Injuries of other vessels inside the skull are rare as compared with rupture of the middle meningeal artery. Small vessels on the outer surface of the dura mater may, however, be injured, or the internal carotid itself may be torn in fractures of the base, or there may be haemorrhage from various cerebral sinuses, usually as the result of fracture of the skull. The longitudinal sinus is the one most commonly torn. Symptoms.—The symptoms of bleeding from a sinus are similar to those of intra-cranial haemorrhage from other causes, but, as a rule, localising symptoms are not present owing to the situation of the blood- clot. Compression symptoms do not appear so rapidly as in haemorrhage from the middle meningeal artery, nor are they so severe, because the blood pressure in the sinuses is lower. Bleeding from the superior longitudinal sinus only occurs when the skull is fractured, and con- sequently it is usually accompanied by a diffuse haematoma of the scalp. The occurrence of a haematoma on the vertex, associated with symptoms of compression, is therefore a valuable diagnostic point, and may indicate where the rupture of the vessel has taken place. Death does not necessarily occur in these cases, even when no operation is performed, owing to the slight pressure under which the blood is poured out. Various consequences, such as epileptic fits or mental disturbance, may however follow, chiefly as the result of adhesions. Treatment.—When it is probable that the superior longitudinal or some other accessible sinus has been torn, the proper treatment is to open the skull over the seat of the injury. In the case of the longitu- dinal sinus it is well to make the trephine opening a httle to one side of the sinus, and then, if necessary, to enlarge the opening in the bone by clipping away portions with Hoffman's forceps. In this way the risk of lacerating the sinus with the teeth of the trephine is avoided. On re- moving the bone, blood may be found between it and the dura mater, but it is generally advisable to open the latter, as there is usually sub-dural haemorrhage as well. In some cases the opening in the sinus may be stitched up, or an attempt may be made to tie the vessel