5i8 AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE is entered just beyond the edge on the median side of the cleft and carried directly downwards through the thickness of the lip parallel to the edge of the cleft ; when it approaches the red line of the lip, it turns obliquely outwards through the free edge of the lip (see Fig. 242, A). This strip of mucous membrane, which is angular in shape (the angle d being a little above the red line), is completely detached. The outer side of the cleft, which is usually the shorter, is pared in a similar manner at the upper part, but just before the red line is reached (opposite d), the incision is carried outwards parallel to the mucous membrane into the substance of the lip ; this flap is not detached, but is turned down and leaves an angular raw surface abc (see Fig. 242, B). A silkworm-gut stitch is now put in from the point d to the point c, and tied. A similar stitch is put in above to unite the margins at the nostril and bring the ala of the nose into position. A third deep suture is inserted between these two, and the rest of the wound is united by horse-hair stitches. The red line of the lip in the flap on the outer side of the cleft must now be fitted accurately to the red line on the mesial side of the cleft, and the rest of the mucous surface of the lip accurately brought together, any excess at the free extremity being removed. Fine catgut stitches are used for the mucous surface. If the incision parallel to the red line on the smaller side of the cleft is carried far enough out, no angular deformity will be left, and the contraction during healing will not produce any marked notch, although it may draw up the lip slightly. If the nostril is unduly small after the stitches are inserted, it is well to put a small drainage tube into it, so as to leave breathing space. If the drainage tube becomes blocked, the nurse should be instructed to clean it, or to evert the lower lip and insert the finger between the jaws so that the child may breathe through the mouth. The nostril will become patent in time. In ordinary cases no dressing need be applied, but if there is much tension on the sutures the method of supporting the wound introduced by Lord Lister is of value. A double thickness of gauze is cut to the shape of a bat's wing, one broad surface lying over each cheek and the narrow intervening portion passing across the lip. One end of this dressing is fastened to the cheek with collodion, and, when it is dry, the two cheeks are pushed forward and held in position, while the other end is fixed to the other cheek with collodion ; in this way tension is taken off the line of incision. In bad cases with much separation of the cleft, some contraction of the lip may occur opposite the line of union, even after this operation. With the view of avoiding this, flaps may be cut on each side extending as far down as one-eighth of an inch above the red line and turned down, instead of removing the strip of skin on the mesial side of the cleft ; this leaves the red line of the lip actually projecting downwards when the sutures are inserted (see Fig. 243). Should the subsequent contraction fail to