AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD 328 thrombosis, the infection may pass to the interior of the cranium and produce a suppurative lepto-meningitis. From the point of view of treatment, scalp wounds may be divided into three groups, according to their severity : (i) Those in which the wound only passes through the skin, and subcutaneous tissues ; (2) those in which the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis muscle is divided and the pericranium or the cranial bones are laid bare ; and (3) those in which there is detachment of considerable portions of the scalp. TIlBATMB]SrT. —In all scalp wounds there are three points which have to be attended to, viz. the arrest of the haemorrhage, the disinfection of the wound, and the union of the cut edges. When the wound is superficial the treatment is simple. The hair in the immediate vicinity of the wound is clipped away, the scalp shaved for about an inch around it, vigorously scrubbed with strong mixture, and the cyanide of mercury and zinc paste already alluded to (see p. 325) rubbed into the surrounding hair. The wound itself should be swabbed out with strong mixture (see Vol. I. p. 100), and afterwards washed with i in 2000 sublimate solution. In these superficial wounds the bleeding, as a rule, stops spontaneously. If there is much separation of the edges of the wound, one or two stitches, preferably of silkworm- gut, should be inserted so as to approximate them, but the wound should not be sewn up closely. In small wounds a drainage tube is not necessary. When the wound is quite smaU, the patient will usually wish to go about his business after twenty-four hours, and under such circumstances the large dressing applied in the first instance should be removed, a small piece of gauze or salicylic wool fixed with collodion over the line of incision, some of the cyanide paste (see p. 325) rubbed into the roots of the hair in the vicinity of the wound and the rest of the hair combed over this so as to prevent it showing. This dressing is allowed to dry and may be left untouched for a week. When the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis has been divided, greater care must be taken in the disinfection of the wound. If the wound has been caused by a blunt instrument, hair is usually driven into it and is found sticking over its surface, and this, if left, is a certain source of infection. In many cases also the bleeding is fairly severe. In the first place, the hair should be cut, and the wound and the scalp in the vicinity disinfected. If bleeding is going on, the wound cannot be properly disinfected, and therefore it is well to clamp the bleeding points before attempting it, and then to tie the vessels. If the vessels are tied before the wound is disinfected the ligatures may become soiled and lead to infection. In large wounds over the vault of the skull the bleeding may be eftectually controlled by passing a piece of stout india-rubber tubing two or three times round the skull from the glabella to beneath the occipital protuberance, so as to act as a tourniquet. Should this not be available, a piece of wetted cahco