468 AFFECTIONS OF THE LIPS nature of the ulcer is doubtful, it may be justifiable to apply radium freely. We have seen cases in which the disease has disappeared and no operation has been necessary after the application of 100-150 milh- grammes of radium for twenty-four hours. Removal of the glands,—The question of the removal of the lymphatic glands, which receive the lymph from the infected region (viz. the submaxillary and submental glands), arises here, as in all other cases of carcinoma. When the glands are enlarged there is no difference of opinion as to the necessity for removing them, the only questions in that case being, whether they should be removed at the same time as the primary disease or on another occasion, and whether aU the intervening tissue, likely to contain the lymphatic vessels, should be taken away, as is always done in the case of many other cancers, such as cancer of the breast. Further, if both are removed at the same operation, which should be done first ? As regards the question of infec- tion of the lymphatic vessels it has been pointed out on p. 467 that it is unnecessary to take away the tissues intervening between the growth and the glands in many cases where cancer originates in the skin, and that it generally suffices to take away the primary growth and the affected glandular area. On the other hand, when the primary tumour is large or when it affects the mucous membrane, it is well to take away a large area, including the lymphatic vessels and the nearest lymphatic glands. The question as to the period at which the affected glands should be removed is governed largely by the risk of sepsis occurring in the planes of the neck. It is naturally best to complete the whole operation at one sitting, and when the incisions for the hp and the glands do not com- municate, there is no objection to this course. In that case it is well to remove the glands first, and then to deal with the affected portion of the hp ; there is thus less risk of soiling the wound in the neck. The sub- maxiUary sahvary gland should always be taken away if the submaxillary lymphatic glands are enlarged, as the latter he close to it and may escape notice unless the salivary gland is removed as well. The best incision for removing the submaxillary glands is a curved one commencing beneath the symphysis, passing downwards and back- Fig. 207.—Incisions for the removal of AN Epithelioma of the Lower Lip and the Submaxillary CtLands. The ordinary incision for the removal of the tumour is prolonged down- wards and backwards, and a submaxillary flap is thus raised.