296 AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE meeting above the ears and continued up to a pulley at the head of the bed (see Fig. 115). As a rule three pounds is as much as can be borne comfortably at the head. It is not, however, necessary or desirable to have powerful extension, because the object is not to stretch the spine but to tire out the contracted muscles around the focus of the disease, and a light weight acting constantly wiU suffice for this purpose. The combination of double extension with absolute fixation of the spine is in our opinion the ideal treatment for spinal disease during the progressive stage and in all parts of the spine. It might be thought that the general health would suffer from the confinement to bed, but the contrary is the case. The immediate cessation of the inflammatory process and the pain, leads to improvement in health, appetite, and general condition, and if the patient is kept under good hygienic conditions, the general health will not suffer for a long Fig. 115.—Double Weight-Extension for Spinal Caries. The long sand-bag reaching from the axilla to the ankle is shown, as is also the divided mattress. The patient should be farther down in the bed than is shown in the figure; the pelvis should lie over the middle segments of the mattress. time. When improvement in these respects does not follow confinement to bed, it usually means either that efticient rest is not being given to the affected part or that some grave visceral disease is present as well. This treatment should be carried out until the pain in the spine has disappeared and the signs of active disease have passed off. Several months will be necessary, and in children this line of treatment should be continued until the disease is cured, because in them it is impossible to fit on a satisfactory spinal support owing to the non-development of the pelvis. As the disease becomes quiescent, however, arrangements should be made by which the child may be carried about and moved out of doors. Among these may be mentioned Gauvain's tray, plaster of Paris casings, Phelps's box, and a double Thomas's sphnt. Gauvain's tray—A very valuable method of securing complete immo- bility of the spine is that used at the Hopital Maritime, Berck-sur-Mer, and at the Treloar Home at Alton. The details of this plan are given in