9 DISLOCATIONS OF THE CLAVICLE elbow-sling, place a thick pad in the axilla, another over the outer end of the clavicle, and a third over the front of the forearm close to the elbow. A broad leather strap is then carried over the pad upon the clavicle, around the elbow, and then over the pad upon the forearm (see Fig. i). This presses down the outer end of the clavicle, and pushes the elbow upwards and backwards. The chief trouble with this apparatus is that the strap slips off the point of the shoulder, and it is necessarj^ therefore, to fix straps or bandages to it opposite the anterior and posterior folds of the axilla, and to fasten them together beneath the opposite axiUa. The arm should be bound to the side with the elbow somewhat pushed forward. This ap- paratus may be kept on for three weeks, the strap being tightened when it gets loose; after it is left off, the arm should be sup- ported in a large elbow-sling for another two or three weeks. A more eificacious but somewhat more complicated apparatus is shown in Fig. 2, and is made by apply- ing a shoulder-cap, between which and the acromial end of the clavicle a firm pad is inserted, and sup- porting the elbow in a moulded elbow-sling. The sling and the shoulder-cap can then be braced firmly together by straps or elastic tubing, and the humerus is thus pushed forcibly upwards. Wti-ing.—When there is marked inability to raise the arm from the side, operative interference will have to be considered. Operation has the disadvantage that it may abolish the movements between the clavicle and the scapula, which are important for the proper performance of the antero-posterior movement of the latter. Nevertheless, if the disability persists after a thorough trial of massage and exercises, the best plan is to expose the joint throut^h a curved incision with its convexity Fig. I.—Apparatus I'OR Dislocation of the Acromial End of the Clavicle. The strap—kept from slipping by the two bands passing beneath the opposite axilla—is seen passing over the point of the shoulder and around the elbow, where the two turns are often fastened together to keep them from slipping. A wrist-sling only is shown in the figure for the sake of clearness ; it should bo a large elbow-sling, and the arm should be bound to the side.