AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD 394 disease with symptoms of inflammatory intra-cranial mischief, the treatment must commence with the opening of the mastoid antrum, for the following reasons. In the first place, the focus of the disease is in the antrum, and must be removed before any good result can be expected ; in the second place, the direction in which the mischief has spread can often be determined, and in any case can be more easily followed after the mastoid antrum has been opened ; and in the third place, it sometimes happens that clearing out the mastoid antrum and the neighbouring cells suffices to effect a cure, even though the symptoms are grave. It is by no means always easy to diagnose the extent and situation of the mischief, and an acute inflammation in the antrum may give rise to symptoms which may be mistaken for those of grave intra-cranial mischief. When exposing the mastoid antrum in cases accompanied by doubtful cerebral symptoms, it is often best to make a larger flap than that usually employed for the ordinary mastoid operation, as it may be necessary, not only to clear out the antrum, but to expose the lateral sinus freely, and even to explore the brain. The incision should commence about half an inch vertically above the external auditory meatus and be carried with a bold sweep backwards, so that its convexity is well behind the posterior margin of the mastoid process, curving forwards below to end just in front of that process. The incision should be carried directly down to the bone, and all the soft parts, including the pericranium, should be turned forwards. The pinna is loosened by detaching the cartilaginous from the bony meatus, and a strip of gauze is passed into the external auditory meatus and pulled out between the cartilage and the bone, and in this way a loop is formed around the pinna which serves as an efficient retractor. When the surgeon thinks that the disease is limited to the antrum, the incision may follow the sulcus at the junction of the back of the pinna with the side of the head, access to the brain and lateral sinus being obtained later in the operation, if need be, by carrying another incision backwards from this over the middle of the mastoid process. When there is a superficial abscess it is not uncommon to find an opening in the bone which leads into the antrum, and by enlarging this the antrum can be exposed. If, however, no such opening is present, the antrum must be reached by following the anatomical lines. The antrum is on a level with the upper margin of the bony meatus and slightly less than half an inch behind it (see Fig. 165, A, a); its cavity lies about half an inch from the outer surface of the skull. The outer wall of the antrum should be removed, if possible, with a hand gouge. In children this can always be done without difficult}^ but in adults it is sometimes necessary to use a hammer and chisel. The latter implements have, however, the great disadvantage of producing a certain amount of concussion, which is obviated by using a gouge.