396 AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD of the gauze being brought out through the incision behind the pinna. The packing is renewed daily until the suppuration is practically at an end, when the wound may be allowed to close, the sinus, which persists for some time, affording sufficient drainage. When the acute symptoms have supervened upon prolonged suppura- tion, the complete operation must be performed, that is to say, the bridge of bone between the antrum and the external and middle ear must be removed, together with the ossicles and the membrana tympani. In addition, the cells in the interior of the mastoid process should be opened up freely so as to make a single smooth-walled cavity out of the irregular and tortuous passages of the external and middle ear, antrum, and mastoid cells. The next step, therefore, consists in dividing the bridge of bone left between the cavity and the external auditory meatus (see Fig. 165, C). This is best done with a very line chisel; it should be used extremely gently, a bent probe or Stacke's special instrument made for the purpose, Fig. 166.—Stacke's Antral Protector. This is often used instead of the bent probe shown in Fig. 165, B. being passed from the cavity of the antrum through the attic into the middle ear, to serve as a guide, and also to protect the facial nerve from injury (see Fig. i66). No force must be used when the granulations are being scraped out, as the roof of the attic may have been destroyed, and the granulations may spring from the under-surface of the dura mater ; when that is the case, there is a risk of perforating the dura mater and causing septic infection of the sub-dural space. Special care must be taken not to injure the facial nerve. It usually lies in a bony canal, but this is not uncommonly incomplete or may have been eroded by the inflammatory processes ; in the latter case it is simply surrounded by a mass of granulations. If the nerve is exposed, it is generally easy to produce twitching of the face by touching it with a probe. The nerve runs no risk during removal of the outer wall of the antrum if care be taken not to deepen the opening unduly at the lower part; too low an incision will certainly damage it. One of the principal difficulties in this operation is that blood wells up freely into the funnel-shaped cavity and obscures the view. This is best obviated by pouring a few drops of adrenalin chloride (i in looo)