DISEASES OF THE ANKLE-JOINT AND TARSUS 223 the astragalus gives admirable access to the whole of the joint, and by- removing it the surgeon can make quite sure of taking away all the diseased synovial membrane, and, at the same time, removing any deposits in the bones. The functional result is excellent, a freely movable joint being practically always obtained. We shall, therefore, only describe this method. Many incisions have been employed. We generally use a longitudinal incision in front of each malleolus, extending from about two inches above the joint to the centre of the lateral aspect of the foot (see Fig. 88). The inner incision commences just over the anterior border of the tibia, runs down in front of the internal malleolus and curves somewhat inwards on the foot towards the internal cuneiform bone. On the outer side of the limb, the incision runs in front of the external malleolus, forwards on to the foot, curving slightly towards the base of the fourth B Fig. 88.—Incisions for Excision of the Astragalus. A is the incision on the inner side, B that on the outer. metatarsal bone. These incisions are deepened until the capsule of the ankle-joint is exposed. The soft parts are carefully raised from the front of the joint with a periosteum detacher, which is gradually insinuated from one wound to the other, between the capsule and the parts over it. Then, by pushing the periosteum detacher forcibly upwards and downwards, the whole of the soft parts, containing the tendons and the anterior tibial vessels and nerves, can be lifted up so as to expose the entire anterior portion of the capsule from its connection with the tibia above to the astragalus below. The soft parts are then similarly separated backwards from each incision, and raised from the malleoli. The entire anterior and antero- lateral areas of the capsule are thus separated from the structures over them, and the attachments of the former to the lower end of the tibia, the malleoli, and the tarsus may be cut through with a knife or scissors, and the anterior part of the synovial membrane removed in one piece, the edges of the articular cartilage being shaved away with a knife.