AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 248 the periosteum and the tendinous origins of the muscles being detached from the internal epicondyle, and the capsule defined and separated from them. The finger can soon be made to pass across from one incision to the other between the capsule and the superficial structures, amongst which win be the brachial artery which, owing to its pulsation, forms an important guide. By passing the finger from one incision to the other and by stripping the soft parts upwards and downwards the anterior portion of the capsule can be separated and may be cut across at its tube, and antiseptic dressings and lateral poroplastic splints applied. Should septic sinuses be present they must be scraped and disinfected with pure carbolic acid first of all and then excised if possible. The articular surfaces should be sponged over with undiluted carbolic acid at the end of the operation, and a drainage tube inserted ; when sinuses are not present drainage is seldom necessary. After-treatment.—The sphnts should be kept on for about a fortnight, at the end of which time the arm may be placed in a sling for another two or three weeks and the patient encouraged to move the joint. The case may then be left to nature. There is no particular advantage in performing forcible movement; in a child, the arm will be constantly i Fig. 100.—Method of protruding the Articular ENDS in Arthrectomy OF THE Elbow. If the lateral incisions shown in the preceding figure are long enough, it is quite easy to protrude the end of the humerus, as shown above, after dividing the ligaments. The upper ends of the radius and ulna may be protruded in a similar manner through either of the lateral incisions. attachment to the bones and removed in one piece. The lateral ligaments having been divided, the ends of the bones can be easily protruded through the wound ; the olecranon is first pushed through which- ever incision it can be made to project from more easily—■ generally the outer—and the synovial membrane of the radio- ulnar articulation is completely removed. If the orbicular ligament is diseased it must be removed. The lower end of the humerus is then pro- truded through one of the wounds—generally the inner— and similarly examined (see Fig. 100). Special attention must be paid to the olecranon and coronoid fossae. After the disease has been thoroughly removed, the bones are replaced, the wounds stitched up without a drainage