AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE 552 then passed through the wound so that one end projects slightly in the mouth, while the other lies about a quarter of an inch beneath the opening in th'e skin. The buccal end of the tube is stitched to the mucous mem- brane and the skin wound is closed if it is healthy. When all sloughing has ceased, the tube is gradually shortened by pulling it into the mouth. When the external wound has soundly healed, the tube may be removed, the pressure of the saliva as it is secreted being sufficient to keep the buccal end of the wound open until a permanent orifice has been formed. SALIVARY FISTULA. This is a communicaton between one of the salivary ducts and the exterior; in the case of the parotid it occurs directly over the gland when one of the larger ducts of origin has been opened, or in the cheek when Stenson's duct has been injured. The condition may arise from a wound, from injury during operations, as the result of sloughing or abscess formation, or as a sequela of syphilitic or tuberculous mischief. The treatment of a fistula over the gland has already been indicated {vide supra) ; we need therefore only discuss the question of a fistula of Stenson's duct. The fistulous opening in Stenson's duct may be either over the masseter or further forward on the cheek ; the opening is usually small, and when once established never closes without operation. TREATMENT.—Two points are aimed at in the treatment, namely: to divert the stream of saliva into the mouth, and to close the opening in the skin. When the orifice of the duct is contracted and the opening in its wall is quite small, it may sometimes suffice to dilate the orifice of the duct, and then to pare the edges of the opening in the skin and stitch them together. The dilatation may be done with probes, but it is much more satisfactorily effected by slitting up the orifice so as to make a larger and more oblique opening. If possible a stitch should be inserted on each side between the duct wall and the mucous membrane. In most cases, however, the duct is more seriously damaged, and this treatment will not suffice. The exact method will then vary according to the situation of the fistulous opening ; in any case it must commence by providing free escape for the saliva into the mouth. // the fistulous opening lies over the masseter, the channel required for the escape of the saliva into the mouth is of considerable length and is best made by thrusting a large-sized trochar from the opening in the cheek forwards into the mouth; if necessary the opening into the mouth may be enlarged. A drainage tube is now introduced through this opening, one end projecting into the mouth and the other through the skin wound. This is kept in position by silk threads at each end, the two ends of the silk being knotted together behind the ear ; the tube should be maintained in position for at least four days, when the