187 DISEASES OF THE HIP-JOINT the disease is perhaps more easy by this method than by any other. It is, however, open to the serious objection that the glutei are consider- ably damaged and the functional result is therefore not likely to be so good ; it gives excellent drainage, however, and should be employed by preference in cases in which numerous septic sinuses are present. Septic sinuses should be dissected out or scraped, and undiluted car- bolic acid applied to them ; finally the whole wound should be thoroughly spiMiged with the same substance before the sutures are introduced. When there is widespread sepsis and a number of sinuses, it is well to leave the wound open and to pack it with cyanide gauze impregnated with iodoform until granulation is well advanced. The packing should be renewed daily for about three weeks, when it should be dispensed with and the wound allowed to close. When excision is employed after the disease has become quiescent, the Fig. 73.—E.xcisiON of the Hip by a Posterior I.nxision. The patient lies upon the sound side with the affected joint flexed and rotated inwards. operation is only done for the def(^rinit}\ and removal of the head of the bone is all that is required ; it is not necessary to dissect out the synovial membrane. The object of the operation in these cases is to get rid of the head of the bone so as to obtain a movable joint. Here the anterior incision is the best, and after the neck has been sawn through, the head of the bone must be chiselled out of the acetabular cavity ; it is impossible to pull it out after division of the neck on account of the bony anchylosis. In these cases, however, Murphy's operation (p. 153) will probably replace excision of the hip when the only object is to obtain a mowilile joint. OSTEO-ARTHRITIS. This is one of the most common diseases of the hip in old people. The hip-joint is one of the most frequent seats of monarticular osteo-arthritis, and probabl}^ the condition known as malum coxce senile, in which there are marked atrophic changes in the cartilage and bone, and which so