28 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS case is one of partial excision of the joint without division of any muscles. Removal of the head of the bone is also advisable in the rarer cases in which the head is comminuted. If this be not done, so much new bone may be thrown out as to fix the joint more or less completely. Injury to the Axillary Vessels and Nerves.—The axillary artery is the vessel usually affected ; in sub-glenoid dislocation especially, it is often stretched over the head of the bone and there is a temporary arrest in the circulation through it, which passes off as soon as the displacement is remedied. In the more severe cases there may be extensive bruising of the vessel, followed by thrombosis. The artery may be torn across either partially or completely. One of two things will then happen : either the ruptured artery is so twisted or the head of the bone so presses upon it that there is no free escape of blood ; or, more commonly, profuse haemorrhage takes place and the axilla becomes distended with blood. If the rent is large the patient may bleed to death in a very short time, but if it is small the hsemorrhage may ultimately become partially arrested and a large diffuse axillary aneurysm will be formed. Rupture of the artery is easily recognised ; the swelling in the axilla is marked and may increase visibly, while the patient becomes faint from loss of blood and may die before assistance can be procured. The accident, however, is extremely rare in recent cases ; it more often occurs during attempts to reduce a dislocation of several weeks' standing. Treatment of Rupture of the Artery.—As soon as the condition is recognised, the subclavian artery should be compressed against the first rib (see Vol. II. p. 495) while arrangements are being made to secure the injured vessel. As soon as possible an incision should be made as for ligature of the third part of the axillary artery (see Vol. II. p. 216), but somewhat freer. The subclavian being fully controlled by an assistant, the clots are turned out and the torn ends of the vessel tied. If the extravasation be widespread, and particularly if there be an}^ difficulty in securing efficient compression of the subclavian, an incision through the skin and deep fascia should first be made above the clavicle, as for ligature of the third part of the subclavian (see Vol. II. p. 196); through this an assistant can introduce his thumb and compress the vessel directly against the rib whilst the incision is being made into the axilla. The surgeon is thus enabled to turn out all the clots and to search for the divided ends of the vessel, which will be difficult to find until the clots have been evacuated. After the vessel has been ligatured above and below the rent, a large drainage-tube should be inserted into the axilla. Treatment of Injury to the Nerves.—It is not uncommon for the head of the bone to press upon one of the axillary nerves and produce paralysis or aucesthesia. If due simply to pressure, this will pass off soon after the pressure is relieved ; if permanent, it is the result either of bruising or of actual rupture of the nerve.