171 DISEASES OF THE [HIP-JOINT bar simply curved forward where it lies over the buttock, the other parts of the apparatus being absolutely vertical. The great objection to a single Thomas's splint is that the limb is not kept abducted, as is advisable in all these cases; indeed, unless great care is taken, adduction may actually take place. Hence it is well to have the splint bent outwards at the lower end of the curve for the buttock so as to produce as much ab- duction of the leg as possible, or, in bad cases, to apply a double Thomas's splint. The latter is not very convenient for adults, but in children it should always be used in the early stage of the treatment in preference to the single splint, as it will enable the patient to be carried about. This splint consists of a bar running up behind each but- tock and leg, thence along each side of the spine, the two being connected by cross- pieces above and opposite the pelvis (see Fig. 62). The bars should diverge from each other, so that the lower ex- tremities are slightly abducted when fixed to them (see Fig. 63). Here also a pelvic band is essential to prevent the patient moving the pelvis laterally. In children at this stage the application of a plaster of Paris casing is very satisfac- tory. The limb should be abducted and the thigh and pelvis enveloped in plaster of Paris bandages, specially strengthened in front of, and behind the hip- joint. The plaster need not include the knee unless the case is a bad one, and should be renewed every three or four weeks. An excellent arrangement for the purpose of applying the plaster has been designed by Dr. Gallie, of Toronto (see Fig. 64). It consists of a board, with a raised wooden rest for the shoulders at the upper end, high enough to leave plenty of room between the body and the board for passing Fig. 62.—A Double Thomas's Splint for Hip Disease. The splint, which is made of malleable iron thickly padded with leather, is shown applied in the following figure. The leg-pieces diverge, so as to abduct the lower extremities.