AFFECTIONS OE JOINTS the femur, so that the hmb cannot be brought straight even under an anaesthetic. In the fourth stage recovery is taking place, and a considerable degree of anchylosis will be met with, which may be fibrous or bony, according to the amount of destruction that has taken place in the articular cartilages and the bones ; generally it is fibrous or only in part bony. In the fifth stage the symptoms have entirely subsided, but, either because there has been no treatment or because it has been inefiicient, deformity has resulted. The knee is flexed up to or beyond a right angle, the leg is rotated outwards and the head of the tibia drawn up behind the femur, so that it is impossible to bring the leg straight; indeed if this is attempted I forcibly, true dislocation backwards will be ^' ™" produced. TREATMENT.—We have already pointed out that if localised deposits are present, either in bone or synovial membrane, they should be removed at once before general infection of the joint has occurred, and we have indicated the ordinary seats of these deposits. Nothing more need be said, therefore, under these headings. We may pass on to the consideration of the treatment of diffuse disease of the joint, and it wUl be most convenient to describe in detail the treatment of each of the clinical stages above referred to. Treatment of the first stage.—When the synovial thickening is not very marked, and there is no great pain or interference with movement, the seriousness of the condition is apt to be overlooked, and the patient allowed to get about and move the joint freely. Parents are often most averse to fixation of the joint under these circumstances. It must never be forgotten, however, that the chances of securing a good result are best at this stage ; if a cure can be obtained, it is probable that considerable move- ment will be retained; indeed, not uncommonly, the movement of the joint is completely restored if treatment is carried out strictly and for a sufficient length of time. The great indication at this period is absolute rest to the joint. The patient must be confined to bed in the horizontal position, with the leg elevated and the joint fixed by some suitable apparatus. WeU-moulded, closely-fitting leather, poroplastic or Croft's plaster of Paris splints (see Vol. II.) are the best. It is most essential that the patient should be kept recumbent until improvement is well advanced, because any attempt to Fig. 77.—Incision for ex- posure AND REMOVAL OF A Tuberculous deposit in the Inner Condyle of the Femur.