AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE 554 readily enough as the sahva passes freely into the mouth through the drainage tube ; the latter should be kept in place until sound union has taken place. If any point in the skin fails to unite, it may be touched with caustic, or may be pared and stitched up again. When union is complete, the drainage tube may be withdrawn and the flow of saliva will keep the track open. When the fistulous opening is situated more anteriorly on the cheek, it may be possible to make an incision over the duct, dissect out its posterior uninjured portion, divide it across at the fistulous communica- tion, and then make a puncture through the thickness of the cheek into the mouth just anterior to the masseter muscle, and puU the duct along that track into the mouth. The end of the duct should be slit up for about an eighth of an inch, so as to leave a larger orifice, and then stitched to the mucous membrane of the mouth by catgut sutures. In this way the stream of saliva flows directly into the buccal cavity, and the external wound can be pared and stitched up. This procedure, however, can only be carried out when there is a considerable length of healthy duct between the masseter and the fistulous opening ; when this is not the case, the plan recommended for an opening over the masseter must be adopted, but in this case the length of the track is much shorter. INFLAMMATION OF THE PAROTID GLAND. Inflammatory conditions of the parotid gland are due to a variety of causes, such as the too free administration of mercury, impaction of a calculus in the duct, the spread of septic inflammations from the mouth or more general infection occurring in the course of general sepsis. Inflammation of the parotid is also the chief feature in mumps. Acute inflammation of the parotid gland is not very uncommon after abdominal operations, such as the suture of a perforated gastric ulcer or the removal of a gangrenous appendix. The affection is almost certainly secondary to the condition of the mouth and teeth, and most frequently occurs when there is stomatitis or when the teeth are in a bad condition. It is therefore very likely to occur when the patient is very ill. By some, the occurrence of parotitis, under these circumstances, is considered to be a pysemic manifestation, but the view mentioned above is a more probable explanation. In some cases the parotid glands are also affected after operations done under less urgent conditions. The inflammatory signs usually appear within a few days of the operation, though they may not come on until later. Both glands are generally involved, and suppuration frequently follows. The pus at first is deeply-seated, and may be seen exuding from the orifice of the duct into the mouth, or may be made to exude by pressure on the gland or along the duct; burrowing is very likely to occur, unless evacuation is promptly undertaken. Sometimes pus formation may be absent.