TUMOURS OF THE SCALP 335 over the tumour ; at most, a few hairs along the hne of incision may be cut away. In women the hair on each side of the cyst should be combed aside and plaited, so as to keep it out of the way. When a number of cysts are to be removed, this process must be repeated over each until the patient's hair is confmed in a number of plaits, the tumours occupying the partings between them. The scalp and hair in the neighbourhood should next be thoroughly disinfected, and a quantity of the cyanide of mercury and zinc paste (see p. 325) should be well rubbed in. A straight, narrow-bladed bistoury, with the edge directed outwards, is then pushed through the cyst, and made to cut upwards so as to divide the outer half of the cyst wall. If now a little pressure be made on each side, the cyst wall will be seen to protrude from the bed in which it lies, when it can be seized with Fig. 143.—Method OF REMOVING A Sebaceous Cyst. The cyst is first cut across by transfixion (.4), and its contents are squeezed out: then, as shown in B, the wall is laid hold of by catch-forceps and traction exerted. The wall pulls out and only a mere touch of the knife is required. forceps, and with a little care pulled out from the tissues around (see Fig. 143). When the tumour is larger, it is well to make an elliptical incision enclosing a sufficient amoimt of the thinned and redundant skin, and, when the cyst wall is reached, to shell out the cyst by means of a blunt dissector. A small vessel may require twisting at the bottom of the cavity, and then one or two interrupted catgut sutures may be inserted so as to bring the sldn edges together. As these edges are very thin, they are apt to curl inwards, and this must be borne in mind in putting in the stitches. For the first twenty-four hours a pad of gauze is fastened over the area of the operation with a firm bandage so as to prevent oozing into the cavity. Unless this is done, blood is apt to collect and distend the cavity. At the end of twenty-four hours the bandage and pad may be taken off, a small collodion dressing fixed on, some of the cyanide paste again nabbed into the scalp, and the hair combed over the dressing. At the end of a