542 AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE After the wires have been tightened up to the full extent, their ends are cut short and hammered down on to the lead plates, the margins of the latter being slightly everted so as not to press unduly on the gums. There is very little shock following the operation and the amount of blood lost is quite small. After the expiration of six weeks the wires and lead plates may be removed. There is practically no risk of necrosis of the jaws or ulceration of the gums, if the operation is carried out as described, and all that is necessary afterwards is to keep the mouth clean and to remove all food debris. This can be done by means of swabs soaked in a mild antiseptic. Up till quite recently the operation has not been often performed in this country. If properly carried out, it is not a difficult procedure in suitable cases. It is not certain, however, that the results are in any way superior to those obtained by the older methods of operating, and it should never be attempted without the proper instruments. Voice Training,—After any operation for cleft palate it is necessary for the patient to undergo a careful and prolonged course of vocal training in order to get rid of the nasal twang which has already been acquired, and which will persist, if not treated. The movements of the lips and the soft palate are also greatly benefited by training of this kind ; nose breathing is most important and should be taught regularly. In most large towns there are institutions where this can be done. We add here a short note on this subject which has been kindly written for us by Mr. Cortlandt MacMahon, Instructor for Speech Defects at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, Dulwich College, and Eton College. ' The training of the voice after operation for cleft palate is a matter of very great importance as so much can be done to remedy the imperfec- tions in the voice, thereby adding very materially to the comfort of the patient and of those with whom he or she is brought into contact. The extent of the defect in the speech varies naturally with the e.xtent of the abnormality, and where hare-lip is added to a cleft of both hard and soft palates there is, of course, additional vocal trouble to be remedied. '" Voice" being caused by air vibrating in the various vocal resonating chambers of the body, which comprise the chest, pharynx, larynx, the mouth, the nasal cavities, and the other cavities of the head, it is at once apparent that, if the two very important i-esonators formed by the mouth and nasal cavities are impaired, there will be very serious interference with its quality. Whether the cleft includes both the hard and the soft palates or is confined only to the soft palate, the speech is certain to suffer to a more or less serious degree as the soft palate, when intact, has the enormously important function to perform of directing the ascending air column during vocalisation in proper proportions into the mouth and nasal cavities. Before the cleft is repaired the air column finds its way into the nasal cavities in undue proportions, thereby