TUBERCULOSIS 123 these parts are cut away. Deposits in the bone are also more hkely to be overlooked in arthrectomy than in excision, although they may be missed, even in the latter operation. Nevertheless, experience shows that the greater the care with which the operation is done, the better is tlie result ; and when arthrectomy can be thoroughly performed, it is a very satisfactory operation. An important point for consideration is the relative utility of the limb after the two operations. When the cartilages are left intact, bony anchylosis after arthrectomy will not occur, and a certain amount of movement will sometimes be retained, especially if the joint is not kept at rest too long after the operation. In the joints of the upper extremity and in the ankle and the hip, this is a matter of considerable importance ; in the knee, on the other hand, a satisfactory movable joint can seldom be obtained, and no doubt the joint left after arthrectomy is weaker and more apt to become badly flexed than is the hrm anchylosed one obtained by excision. After the latter operation the mobility depends in most cases on the amount of passive movement employed, and a perfectly firm joint can be usually obtained if desired. Besides mobility, the subsequent development of the limb has to be con- sidered ; this is of such immense importance in children as practically to outweigh all other considerations. In this respect arthrectomy is far more favourable than excision. There should be no interference with the growing portions of the bones in a properly performed arthrectomy imless a deposit actually involves the epiphyseal line, and consequently there should be no material arrest of development. After excision in children, on the other hand, the results in this respect are very bad, and in them excision—of the knee-joint particularly—is contra-indicated, as it is practically impossible to perform the operation without inter- fering with the subsequent growth of the limb. Serious shortening may occur even after excision of the hip ; in some cases there has been as much as eleven inches by the time the child has attained adult life. The conclusion with regard to the choice between arthrectomy and excision, which seems warranted by all the facts, is that arthrectomy is the proper radical operation up to sixteen or eighteen years of age, and excision is the operation of choice later in life. Exceptions as regards arthrectomy in adults may be made in connection with certain joints. These will be dealt with later. SPECIAL POINTS IN THE TREATMENT OF THE VARIOUS STAGES. We shall now summarise shortly the methods of treatment most suited to the different local conditions enumerated on p. 112. 1. Localised tuberculous deposits in the bone which have not yet reached the joint.—These cases are rarely met with in practice,