AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 228 (see p. iiS), and the wound stitched up without a drainage tube. Blood- clot fills up the cavity and becomes organised. Should serum accumulate it can be let out by introducing a pair of sterilised sinus forceps between the stitches. After-treatment.—The foot should be encased in a large mass of dressing and firmly bandaged; it should be fixed by lateral splints. When the wound has healed and the parts are sound, a large mass of wool should be put around the ankle and fixed on firmly with a silicate bandage, so as to exercise a certain amount of compression. The patient should not be allowed to hang the foot down for at least eight weeks after the operation, otherwise the vitality of the organising blood-clot within the bone will be endangered. Should a sinus form and fail to heal, the scraping may be repeated after a time ; the second operation will often succeed in curing the disease. If the sinus still refuses to heal, excision of the os calcis will be necessary. When an abscess or sinuses are pre- sent.—When there is an abscess over the bone it should be dissected out, or at any rate cleared out as thoroughly as possible, and the bone deposit removed as described above. When septic sinuses are present and lead into the interior of the bone, they may be treated in a similar manner ; the sinus is swabbed out with undiluted car- bolic acid, included in the incision, and removed entire. The interior of the bone is then gouged out and sponged with the undiluted acid. The cavity should be left open and packed with gauze. When granulation is complete, this packing may be stopped and only superficial dressings applied. Excision of the Os Calcis.—When, however, the disease has lasted for a long time, and has resisted the treatment just described, when several sinuses are present, or when there is evidence of infection of neighbouring joints, such as the calcaneo-astragaloid or calcaneo-cuboid, excision of the OS calcis will be necessary. A very convenient incision for removal of the os calcis, is one which commences a finger's breadth above the sole, just behind the base of the fifth metatarsal, and is carried horizontally backwards around the heel and along the inner side of the bone for an inch and a half (see Fig. 91). It must not be carried too far forwards on the inner side, otherwise there is a risk of damaging the vessels and other structures below the internal malleolus. The incision should at first go through the skin and fascia Fig. 91.—Incision por E.xcision of THE Os Calcis. The incision should run a full finger's breadth above the sole. The vertical incision along the outer border of the tendo Achillis is only occasionally required.