DISEASE OF THE SACRO-ILIAC SYNCHONDROSIS 313 over the crest of the iUum, in order to facihtate access to the bone in cases of disease of the lumbar vertebrje. It is, however, impossible to deal satisfactorily with the bone disease in this region ; in the first place it is too far away, and in the second place it is too extensive, and not sufficiently limited to one side to allow it to be properly dealt with. Sequestra may, however, be removed in some cases through the upper incision.! TREATMENT OF THE DISEASE IN SPECIAL SITUATIONS. The variations in treatment according to the situation of the disease have been already indicated, to some extent. In disease of the upper cervical spine complete recumbency should be enjoined until the case is practically well. In the later stages, however, when there is no longer any pain on movement and the patient is evidently in a fair way to recovery, he may be allowed to get about with a suitable apparatus. Of these the best are Taylor's brace with a ring support for the head (see Fig. 130) or a plaster of Paris casing surrounding the trunk and supporting the head (see Fig. 124). The jury-mast, which is so commonly used, is practically of no value. In the cervico-dorsal or upper dorsal region a neck collar is absolutely essential if the patient is to be allowed to walk about, but we would strongly advise that he should be kept lying flat until he is well. In disease lower doimi in children the patient should be kept in Gauvain's tray, a Phelps's box, or a double Thomas's splint with a head-piece, until recovery has taken place ; but an adult may be allowed to get about wearing a Taylor's brace after the acute symptoms have passed off, DISEASE OF THE SACRO-ILIAC SYNCHONDROSIS. This disease may be primary or it may be secondary to disease of the lower lumbar vertebrae ; it is often combined with lumbo-sacral disease. When secondary to lumbar disease, the disease of the synchondrosis usually commences as a periostitis of the ilium or sacrum. When it begins primarily in connection with the joint, it generally takes the form of a deposit in the sacrum or ilium, usually in the former ; as these deposits enlarge they invade the articulation. The interosseous ligament is usually only partially destroyed, but it sometimes remains intact. SYMPTOMS.—The first symptom is pain in the lumbar region, which is worse after exertion ; there is often also pain in the buttock or along the sciatic nerve. There is generally some swelling over the joint behind, and the muscles of the buttock waste. The patient limps, the ' Upon the question of the removal of sequestra through a lumbar incision, the original paper by Sir Frederick Treves, in the Med. Chir. Trans., vol. Ixvii., may be consulted.