CHAPTER XXXVIII. 455 FRx\CTURES OF THE NASAL BONES. These injuries are practically always caused by some form of direct violence ; sometimes, however, they may be due to extension from a fracture of the anterior fossa of the base of the skull. Fractures occur more often in adults than in children, in whom the nose is more yielding ; they are usually compound through the mucous membrane and not uncommonly comminuted. One bone alone may be broken, but usually both are fractured and may be separated from each other. The fracture may involve the nasal processes of the superior maxillae and in badly comminuted cases usually also runs through the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid or the lachrymal bones. Lastly, the cartilages may be detached from the nasal bones, and it is not uncommon for bending or even dislocation of the cartilaginous septum to occur. The deformity is greatest in cases of comminuted fracture, in which the bridge of the nose maybe so depressed that it is difficult to replace the bones and to keep them in position. In many cases the nose is displaced laterally, while in others there is comparatively little displacement of any kind. The swelling is often so great as to mask both the displacement and the crepitus. As a rule, these fractures are unaccompanied by complications, but when there is severe damage the following conditions may be met with : 1. Epistaxis.—Bleeding from the nose is constant, but is usually only slight. If, however, one of the larger vessels is ruptured, there may be considerable and persistent haemorrhage, which sometimes necessitates plugging of the nostrils. 2. Emphysema.—Escape of air into the tissues about the orbit or the forehead and bridge of the nose is not uncommon, and is due either to injury of the nasal duct or to a free opening from the interior of the nostril to the cellular tissue outside. The emphysema is usually developed when the patient attempts to blow his nose. It generally subsides spontaneously and seldom gives rise to any trouble.