498 AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE of the opening, lay it on the skin and make the incision a quarter of an inch outside it, so as to allow for shrinking. This flap is turned over so that the skin surface looks into the mouth, and its edges are stitched to the mucous membrane with interrupted sutures (see Fig. 228, B). It is usually obtained from the skin over the masseter muscle. A second flap is made and so fashioned that its pedicle can be twisted sufficiently to allow its raw surface to be applied to the raw sur- face of the deeper flaps without the circulation being obstructed. This is usually done by carrying a curved incision from the front and lower edge of the opening downwards and backwards under the jaw (see ABC Fig. 22S.—Plastic Operation on the Mouth when there is no Anchylosis of the Jaws. In A the edges of the defect have been pared, and the flap over the masseter is marked out. In B this flap has been reflected and sutured into the gap with its cutaneous surface looking towards the buccal cavity. In C the flap, after it has united to the margins of the gap, is divided along the line AA, and a small part of its base turned back into place. The remaining raw surface can be covered by skin-grafts, or by under- mining the edges. The thick black line passing below the chin is the outline of the skin-flap that is raised and brought over the raw surface of the flap that has been sutured into the gap. Fig. 228, C). The flap thus formed is then slid upwards over the first flap, and sutured to the margins of the defect. The raw surface left after turning forward the deep flap may be closed partly by stitches, after undermining the edges, and partly by skin-grafts. A small portion of its anterior end will be covered subsequently when the base of the flap is divided, and need not therefore be closed at the time. The raw surface left by the displacement of the superficial flap can be closed by sutures. After union of the flaps to each other and to the margin of the opening, the pedicle of the deep flap should be divided opposite the margin of the opening, the part of the base left turned back so as to help to close the raw surface, and the edge stitched to the posterior part of the defect in the cheek which is pared to receive it. When the superficial