AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE 284 considerable probability that the child may grow up ; operation may also be delayed when ulceration is present on the surface of the tumour, so as to give time for the ulcer to heal, provided that there is no imminent danger of perforation. Shields.—The first essential in the palUative treatment is to protect the tumour from injury by some form of accurately fitting shield which should be moulded directly to a cast of the swelling. This shield may be made of various materials ; among the most satisfactory are aluminium or celluloid, which should be perforated with holes so as to allow the perspiration to evaporate. These shields may be fixed on by strapping applied around the margin (so as to prevent them from shifting laterally) and hy a broad abdominal belt fastened in front. Poroplastic felt also makes a verj^ good shield; it allows the escape of perspiration, especially if holes are bored in it, but if the tumour is large it will require strengthening to enable it to resist pressure. This is easily done by adding two strips of light steel at right angles to each other over the exterior of the shield. Beneath the shield a piece of boric lint should be placed, and, if ulceration is present, this lint should be spread with quarter-strength boric ointment, and changed night and morning. Great care must be taken to prevent soihng of the part, especialty when the tumour is situated at the lower part of the spine. Operative Measures.—The only operative measures that promise any reasonable hope of success are injection of Morton's fluid and excision of the sac. Such procedures as hgature of the sac, galvano- puncture, or the introduction of setons, are bad, on account of the septic infection which practically always follows, and of the injury frequently done to the nerves present in the sac. I. Injection of Morton's fluid.—The plan of injecting these tumours with irritants was practised for many years, but was not followed by real success until Dr. Morton suggested the combination of iodine with glycerine. Fair results have been obtained by this method ; indeed, in some cases a cure has followed. Morton's fluid consists of ten grains of iodine and half a drachm of iodide of potassium to the ounce of glycerine. The object of the iodine is to cause sufficient irritation to lead to thickening of the sac wall and its ultimate contraction and obliteration, while the glycerine prevents unduly rapid diffusion of the solution, thus ensuring a more concentrated action of the drug and a diminished risk of spinal meningitis. The iodide of potassium is added as a solvent of the iodine. In using this method, several points must be attended to. In the first place, it is most important that the needle (which should be sufficiently large to allow the fluid to flow readily through it) should be introduced through normal skin on one side of the base of the tumour ; care must also be taken to avoid any spot where there is puckering or depression of the sac wall, as that usually indicates the attachment of nerve elements.