213 DISEASES OF THE KNEE-JOINT This procedure is more particularly suited for the joints of the upper extremity ; when the knee is affected, it is of more doubtful value, mainly because of the risk of the other knee becoming attacked later. When one knee is stiff, extra strain is thrown upon the opposite side, and after excision for rheumatoid arthritis it is not uncommon to find that the disease appears in other joints subjected to extra strain. How far this should contra-indicate the per- formance of excision of the knee must be judged of by the circum- stances of each individual case. When the patient suffers greatly, and the other joints are free from any sign of the disease, it is better to be relieved of pain and to take the risk of the disease developing else- where. This risk may, to some extent, be avoided if the possibility of its occunence is borne in mind and the patient is instructed to lead a more or less invalid life, and on no account to overstrain the other joints. CHARCOT'S DISEASE. The knee is frequently affected by this disease ; the general prin- ciples of treatment have been already laid down (see p. 136). The special points with regard to the knee are to aim at obtaining as much consolidation of the joint as possible, and, as the form of Char- cot's disease which is accompanied by osteophytic outgrowth is not uncommon in this joint, it is some- times possible by prolonged fixation to obtain sufficient rigidity to enable the patient to get about. Hessing's splint is well adapted for these cases, and enables the patient to walk comfortably, while favouring consolidation of the joint in good position. A less expensive and very useful splint may be made of leather ; it should reach from the groin to the ankle, and be strengthened by a longitudinal metal band, running the whole length of its posterior surface (see Fig. 85). If necessary, this band may be made to fit into a socket in the heel of the patient's boot. Fig. 85.—Moulded Knee Splint. The patient's weight may be borne upon the tuber ischii, so that no pressure is exerted on the articular surfaces, if the metal bar is prolonged down into the heel of tlie boot.