143 RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS The pathological cJianges are most marked in the articular carti- lage, which becomes converted into tibro-cartilage, and is often worn away entirely in parts by the movements of the joint. As the cartilage disappears, the bone beneath becomes sclerosed, so that the surfaces in contact are dense and smooth like ivory ; beneath this dense layer, softening occurs and absorption takes place. Bony outgrowths appear in the neighbourhood of the joint, and may form a ridge around the articular surface, which is often spoken of as ' lipping ' of the articular ends. Large bosses of bone may also be formed, and the same change may occur in the synovial fringes or the capsule of the joint, so that move- ment may be considerably interfered with ; portions of these bony masses may become broken off and form loose bodies in tlie joint. It is not uncommon to find bony masses at the insertions of muscles about the joint. The synovial membrane may or may not be thickened, but there is generally a villous condition of its surface—an affection practically identical with villous disease of the synovial membrane (see p. 107). TREATMENT.—Treatment is very unsatisfactory. It may be possible to arrest the progress of the disease to some extent, but it is impossible to cure it, since the joint can never be restored to its normal condition. Indeed, it is only in the early stages that any marked improve- ment can be obtained ; in the more advanced cases the trouble progresses, very slightly influenced by any treatment with which we are at present acquainted. General Treatment.—The patient must give up, if necessary, any occupation involving exposure to cold or damp, and, if possible, should live in a warm, dry climate, such as that of Egypt, California, or Queensland. Besides being placed under the best possible hygienic conditions, the patient should be carefully dieted. A mixed diet is best, but the stronger animal foods should be taken sparingly and white or raw meat substituted for them ; plenty of fat should be insisted upon, and an excess of farinaceous food should be avoided. The patient may be encouraged to drink large quantities of hot water between meals, with the object of eliminating waste or toxic products from the blood. When the patient is very obese, it will often be advisable to put him on a diet which aims at reducing the fat. For this purpose a diet consisting almost entirely of minced beef or mutton with green vegetables, beef tea, and white of egg is a good deal in vogue at the present time. Large quantities of hot water are taken between meals. Any source of sepsis must be carefully looked to ; pyorrhcea alveolaris must be efficiently treated and the bowels regulated. The best drugs are iron (if the patient is aneemic) and arsenic, which should be ordered in the early stage in all cases. Guaiacol carbonate m five- to ten-grain doses, in cachets, three times daily after food, is also beneficial. Cod-liver oil is valuable, especially in the poor ; it should