SPRAINS 79 fracture, small portions of the bone l)eing detached along with the ligament. Bony injuries varying from a split to actual detachment of a fragment are very common. For example, many so-called 'sprains of the wrist ' are really fissured fractures of the radius or one of the carpal bones, especially the scaphoid. These fractures are not very obvious : a radiogram should, therefore, always be taken in so-called sprains. In some of these bad forms of sprain the injury may involve the muscles surrounding and strengthening the joint, and these may be torn from their attachments. The immediate effect of these injuries is pain, followed by swelling of the joint. Unless efficiently treated, a feeling of weakness and pain in the joint may last for a long time or may even be permanent. When the ligaments are stretched rather than torn, there is com- paratively slight swelling immediately after the accident, but an obstinate synovitis may subsequently occur. In the more severe cases there is effusion of blood at the time of the injury, and this produces immediate swelling of the joint which is increased later on by the occurrence of synovitis. When there is much haemorrhage, the blood is only slowly absorbed from the articular cavity and it may remain fluid for a long time. When a large area of the joint capsule or a broad flat ligament has been ruptured, the torn portion may project into the joint, and become nipped during movement and thus give rise to serious disability. The remote effects of sprains are due partly to the synovitis and partly to imperfect union of the torn fibres of the capsule. The latter condition is especially troublesome and gives rise to that feeling of weakness which is so common a result of neglected sprains. The synovitis also is apt to be followed by adhesions in the joint, or even to obliteration of a portion of the joint cavity. It is thus evident that a sprain of a joint should not be lightly treated, as the serious trouble that so frequently follows the injury is largely due to imperfect appreciation of the ill-results that follow neglect. The common saying that a sprain of a joint is worse than a fracture is explained by the fact that the care devoted to a fracture is seldom bestowed upon a sprain, with the result that fluid blood remains in the joint for along time, that the union of the torn ligaments is defective, that there is a tender cicatrix in the capsule, and that fibrous adhesions form between the opposed synovial surfaces. TREATMENT.—The treatment of a sprain depends largely upon the severity of the injury and the joint affected, but there are certain principles common to all cases. The first indication is to check the extravasation of blood into the joint, while the second is to promote absorption of the blood already poured out ; a third and equally important indication is to obtain satisfactory healing of the injured ligaments, and to restore the movements of the joint to their full degree.