AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 128 and on the general health of the patient. In the hip-joint, for instance, it must be remembered that excision does not give a good functional result, and, should only a single abscess be present about the joint and should the patient be in good health, it is usually best to treat the case on the lines laid down for the treatment of chronic abscess (see Vol I. p. 233) without resorting to excision until it is evident that this is absolutely called for. Something Uke 70 per cent, of cases of hip-joint disease accompanied by a single abscess may be cured in this way. In the more superficial joints, on the other hand, such as the knee, where it is possible to dissect out the abscess, and where the functional result after operation is good, it is usually best to go on at once to the radical operation. In most of these joints the functional result after arthrectomy or excision is as good as can be obtained by expectant treat- ment, while the risk of complications is diminished by the more thorough method. An additional argument in favour of a radical operation under these circumstances is, that the formation of an abscess in connection with a tuberculous joint indicates that there is a strong tendency to breaking down of the tuberculous tissue, and that in all probability similar caseating processes are going on elsewhere, and therefore the chances of recovery by natural means are correspondingly less. The niles already laid down (see p. 121) as regards the choice of a radical operation apply here as elsewhere, but in elderly people amputa- tion will be more frequently called for than in the other types of the disease, especially if there are a number of abscesses about the joint. To excise the joint or to perform arthrectomy without removing the abscesses completely would be futile, because the cut surfaces would become in- fected afresh, while the length of time and the extent of the operation required for the removal of extensive and numerous abscesses would be so great as to jeopardise the patient's life from sliock or loss of blood. 7. Cases complicated by septic sinuses.—Here, as a rule, operation is called for. In young children in whom there is no actual sequestrum or bony deposit, healing may occur, however, even though septic sinuses are present, if the limb be fixed and free drainage provided. In children, therefore, this should be done unless there be some reason to the con- trary. The limb should be immobilised, free drainage provided by open- ing up the sinuses as far as may be necessary, and the child should then be placed under the best hygienic conditions. The treatment of septic sinuses in connection with the tuberculous process has already been referred to (see Vol. II. p. 457). In the treatment of these sinuses, it is most important that they should be dressed with full antiseptic pre- cautions. It is common to find that precautions are relaxed in these cases, on the ground that the sinuses are septic already, the presumption being that a few organisms, more or less, do not matter. This is not the case ; on the contrary, the fresh organisms may be much more virulent than the old ones: whereas in an efficiently drained sinus which is dressed