TUMOURS OF THE BRAIN 425 result of lumbar puncture. It is usually impossible to predict the exact pathological nature of a neoplasm, but variations in intra-cranial pressure, indicating variations in the vascularity of the tumour, may sometimes lead to the suspicion of glioma. A tumour growing in or upon the lirain presents two completely distinct and definite sets of sympioms. The first are those common to all intra-cranial swellings, and are due to the increased intra-cranial pressure which is indicated by headache, vomiting, optic neuritis, and, later on, coma ; these patients are liable to die suddenly, especially when the tumoiir is in the cerebellum or at the base of the brain. The second are localising sympioms due to the destruction or irritation of the part of the brain in the immediate neighbourhood of the growth. It is unnecessarj' to discuss the differential diagnosis of the various forms of cerebral tumour or the localisation of the growth. The latter would involve a long statement of the present position of our knowledge of the physiology of the brain, and for this purpose a separate text-book on the subject must be consulted. Figs. 180 and 181 indicate the various cortical centres sufficiently accurately for all practical purposes. TRBATMENT.—Medicinal. - As it is very difficult to be certain as to the exact nature of tlie tumour, it is usual to begin treatment with anti-syphilitic remedies which should be pushed rapidly. When the Wassermann test is positive, salvarsan should be given intravenously (see Vol. I. Chap. XI.) ; the blood should be tested again after three or four weeks, and if the reaction is still positive, a second smaller dose should be administered provided there is notliing to contra-indicate its use. If no improvement is found after a trial of this line of treatment for four to six weeks the disease is either not syphilitic, or, if it is syphiUtic, it is not likely to benefit by anti-syphilitic treatment, and therefore the question of operative interference will arise. Operative.—In the early days of localisation of function and brain surgery, great hopes were founded on surgical procedures for dealing with cerebral tumoiu's. These hopes, however, have only been realised to a small extent because the great majority of tumours of the brain are not amenable to surgical treatment. Post-morlem examination has shown that, at most, only ten per cent, of tumours of the brain are removable,' and that in a considerable proportion of these the operation reqirired would be so serious that the patient woiild not recover. Hence the out- look is discouraging as regards the radical treatment of these tumours. The best results are obtained in cases of cysts, psammomata, single tuberculous tumours, and gunmiata ; the latter, however, will usually disappear with salvarsan. Indications.—The operative treatment may be radical or pahiative. To fulfil the first indication, the tumour must be localised in an accessible position and single. It must also be a primary tumour