AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 24 and, after the traction has been continued for some time, the arm should be rotated outwards and carried forwards across the chest ; the scapula must be firmly fixed by an assistant. After-treatment.—Recurrence of the dislocation is hkely to result from any movement such as free abduction which thrusts the head of the bone against the rent in the capsule. The movements of the joint should be re- stricted during the night by binding the arm to the side with a handkerchief or bandage ; during the day it usually suffices to keep the hmb supported in an elbow-sling. After the first week this may be replaced by a strap around the trunk connected with another round the arm in such a way as to allow the patient to move the limb in all directions without carrying Fig. 14.—The Heel-in-Axilla Method of Reducing Dislocations of the Shoulder. Final Stage. When full extension has been made, the limb is swung across the middle-line and the head of the bone should slip into place. it far from the thorax. This should not be left off for at least a month, and must be worn for two or three months if the patient wishes to hunt. Strict immobilisation of the joint must be avoided, because adhesions in the joint are likely to result from the accident. Passive movements and massage should therefore be commenced by the surgeon the day after the injury. In performing movement, the arm must be well rotated inwards when the limb is abducted, and, moreover, abduction should only be practised to a very limited extent for the first fortnight after the occurrence of the dislocation. We would especially warn the practitioner against keeping the arm at rest too long, as the results of doing so, especially in elderly subjects, are most disastrous. The shoulder-joint becomes practically useless, and no treatment, however vigorous, has any marked effect upon it. It is well to bear in mind also that persons over the age of thirty-five who suffer from a dislocation are apt to become the subject of a traumatic chronic arthritis which is often very intractable.