146 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS ' With regard to the frequency of bathing we are often much handi- capped by the short time patients allow themselves for the course. With gout, rheumatism, sciatica, etc., it does not perhaps matter so much, but with rheumatoid arthritis it is very different. The disease itself is debilitating and, if the baths be taken either too often or too hot, the effects are not altogether satisfactory. In these cases I never order baths oftener than every other day; and if the patient be able to stay about six weeks, a bath twice a week is about often enough, some gentle dry massage being given at home on two other days during the week. For similar reasons I am not inclined to order the baths hotter than about 103° F., although some go to 105° F., and even higher.' A visit to one of these watering-places should last from three to six weeks, and the patient should not be disappointed if the immediate improvement is comparatively slight. It is not uncommon to find that the condition does not improve for some little time afterwards. Subjects of confirmed rheumatoid arthritis should spend several weeks every year at these baths ; one visit is of little use. Superheated air.—When a patient is unable to afford the time or money necessary for a visit to one of these resorts, the effect of exposing the joint to superheated air should be tried. The joint is enclosed in an apparatus so arranged that the articulation is surrounded with dry superheated air; unless the air be dry, scalding may result. After the limb has been thus exposed for a quarter to half an hour, massage and passive movements are carried out twice a day. Exercise to a limited extent may be permitted, should there be little pain; otherwise the patient should be wheeled out in a bath-chair on every opportunity. Radiant heai.—Another method of securing a similar result is to expose the limb to radiant heat at a temperature of 300°-400° F. in one of the numerous electro-thermal baths now upon the market. Electricity.—The galvanic current is of value in some of these cases, and it may with advantage be combined with the massage. A weak current should first be employed, the electrode connected with the negative pole being placed over the upper end of the limb, whilst the positive electrode is applied to the immediate neighbourhood of the joint. The current should be passed for ten or fifteen minutes at a time, once or twice daih' immediately after the massage, and afterwards the limb should be enveloped in hot flannel. All subjects of rheumatoid arthritis should wear flannel and should keep the affected joint thickly swathed in it. When there is consider- able pain benefit may be obtained by using a liniment of one drachm of menthol to three drachms each of linimentum belladonnse and linimentum camphoris. Another useful local application is a mixture of equal parts of guaiacol and olive oil painted over the joint and surrounded by cotton wool. Amhtdatory treatment.—The most difficult subjects to treat, and,