CLEFT PALATE 537 therefore the operation may be performed at an earlier age than tlie ordinary one. Lane's Operation.—Mr. Arbuthnot Lane {Clin. Joiiiii., May 26,1897) advocates a modification of the above method which he practises during the fourth or fifth weelv of Ufe, or even earlier. Briefly, it consists in raising practically the whole of the muco-periosteum of the hard, and half the thickness of the soft, palate from the larger side of the cleft and turning it back upon itself so that its base corresponds to the edge of the cleft and its raw surface looks downwards into the mouth. Tlie edge of this flap is fastened beneath the edge of the muco-periosteum on the opposite side ; in order to allow of this being done, an incision is made along the margin of the cleft on that side and the muco-periosteum is raised from the bone for a quarter of an inch all along (see Fig. 262, A). The soft palate is joined by splitting a small flap off from the posterior surface on the opposite side of the cleft (see Fig. 262, E). We are not inclined to regard this operation with much favour. It is certainly diflicult to perform, and even slight loss of blood in a child Fig. 263,—Lane's method of closing irregular Gaps in the Soft Palate. The flap shown by the dotted line in A is formed by half the thickness of the tissues of the soft palate and is turned bade upon itself where it is continuous with the gap. It is then sutured to the edges of the gap which have been previously pared (B). of four or five weeks old is a serious matter. It is very difficult to raise and turn back the palate flap without damaging the upper jaw which is very soft at this age, and we are not satisfied with the prospects of union in so delicate a flap with such a problematical blood-supply. Further, although the cleft can be closed by this operation the flap is liable to slough subsequently, and besides, the soft palate, instead of being a movable structure, may be represented by a mass of cicatricial tissue. There appears also to be no reliable information as to the value of the operation from the point of view of speech. For another group of cases—namely, those with circular or horseshoe- shaped gaps left in the soft palate after one or more unsuccessful eftorts to unite it—this method of splitting off a flap from the soft palate may, however, be useful, as it allows gaps to be closed that can only be brought together with great difficulty by the old operation.