174 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS Operative interference is rarely required in the first stage of the disease, but when it is evident that there is a deposit in the neck of the femur, good results may sometimes be obtained by cutting down upon, and removing it before the joint has become infected. The difficulty in these cases is to make an exact diagnosis, but the chief point is that the neck of the bone and the great trochanter are thickened without any marked symptoms such as pain or interference with movement. No thickening will be found inside the pelvis on rectal examination, and practically none in the synovial membrane. A radiogram may be of considerable assistance. Under these circumstances we have cut down and removed tuberculous deposits from the in- terior of the neck of the femur, and have thus succeeded in curing the disease without any infection of the joint. When the disease is evi- dently in the substance of the neck of the femur, it may be readily got at by a vertical incision over the outer surface of the trochanter ; when this is exposed, the compact tissue is cut away with a gouge, and then the cancellous bone is scraped out with a sharp spoon until the tuber- culous deposit is exposed. This is scooped out and the soft bone removed until normal cancellous bone is reached. Care must be taken not to open the joint. The wound is sewn up without a drain- age tube, and the cavity fills with blood-clot which ultimately undergoes organisation into bone. Treatment of the second stage.—It is in this stage that extension is essential, because ab- sorption of the neck of the femur is going on and the acetabulum is becoming enlarged, so that, unless means are taken to arrest the muscular spasm, the shortening will increase in spite of the most careful fixation of the joint. In this stage also the tendency to flexion, adduction, and rota- tion inwards must be overcome; suitable extension is usually able to do this. In the first instance the extension should be applied in the direc- tion that the limb has already assumed (p. 167); by altering the direction gradually, the deformities can be quite corrected and the limb brought into the fully extended and moderately abducted position. The abducted position is of great importance for the following reason. The best result that can be hoped for in these cases is recovery with more or less complete anchylosis of the joint, and, should anchylosis occur with the limb parallel to the middle line, the functional shortening will be considerable. If, however, the limb be Fig. 65.—Phelps's Box. The splint is here shown without the pads; in the next figure it is shown in use. The holes in the foot- pieces and the slit in the upper end of the splint, through which extension and counter - extension can be made if desired, are seen, as are also the hollows in the sides of the box over which the child's arms can lie.