DISEASES OF THE ANKLE-JOINT AND TARSUS 227 interposed between the cut surfaces so as to prevent bony union. If necessary, tenotomy of the tendo Achillis must also be performed. On the other hand, if bony anchylosis is not present, it may be possible to obtain a rectification of the position by dividing the tendo Achillis and the shortened posterior ligaments of the joint, and by the subsequent use of gentle massage and passive movement. It is important to remember, however, that the disease is not really cured, and therefore any violent wrenchmg may light it up afresh. TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF THE OS CALCIS. The osseous deposit here may be either soft and caseous, or it may take the form of a tuberculous sequestrum; it is usually situated in the neighbourhood of the epiphyseal line, and often towards the upper part. In the latter case the disease frequently spreads to the calcaneo-astragaloid joint. The disease may also commence as a tuberculous periostitis, when it is quickly followed by the formation of an abscess. There is generally dull pain in the heel and enlargement of the bone, with fullness later on about the calcaneo-astragaloid joint ; sometimes, however, the deposit makes its way through the shell of the bone to one side—most commonly the outer—and gives rise to an external abscess. TREATMENT.—This will depend upon the stage at which the disease has arrived. When there is no external abscess and no distinct evidence of disease of the calcaneo-astragaloid joint, palliative measiires may be employed for a time ; these will consist in immobilisation of the foot in plaster of Paris, and the usual hygienic measures suitable for tuberculous joint disease in general (see p. 113). It is best, however, to advise early operative interference in most of these cases, the object being to remove the osseous deposit before it has spread beyond the limits of the bone. The position of the incision will be determined by the situation of the primary deposit. This may be shown in a radiogram, and is generally indicated by thickening of the bone. When the bone is uniformly thickened, it is best to make the incision at the upper part near the calcaneo-astragaloid articulation. When there is no abscess.—Should there be no definite indication as to the seat of the deposit, the bone may be reached from the inner side, over which a curved incision should be made with its convexity upwards. This incision should not go far enough forward to endanger the plantar vessels and nerves. The flap is dissected downwards so as to expose the inner surface of the bone, which is then chiselled away until the cancellous tissue is reached ; the osseous deposit is often met with at once, but if not, the cancellous tissue is cleared out with a sharp flushing curette, especially towards the upper and back part of the bone. If cheesy material is exposed, it should be scooped out until healthy bone is reached everywhere. The cavity is then filled up with iodoform emulsion Q ^