AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD 332 vertical direction (see Fig. 142), and they must extend beyond the edge of the inflammatory area. Boric fomentations should be applied after the scalp has been shaved, and in bad cases irrigation may be employed, the head and neck being surrounded by a mackintosh in such a way as to carry off tlie fluid without soiling the bed. When the inflam- mation has begun to subside, the irrigation may be given up, and antiseptic dressings substituted for it. BOILS AND CARBUNCLES. Boils and carbuncles are not very common on the scalp, but they are sometimes met with about the back of the head or over the mastoid process, and are apt to give rise to dangerous complica- tions—such as sinus phlebitis or meningitis. It is well to incise and scrape out the carbuncles freely and apply pure carbolic acid, and at the same time to attend to any constitutional condition, such as diabetes, that may be present (see Vol. 11. p. 8). ULCERS. Ulcers of the scalp may occur after lacerations, burns, or other injuries, after acute inflammations followed by sloughing of portions of the scalp, as the result of syphilis or tuberculosis, or from the ulceration of malignant tumours. SIMPLE ULCERS. When the ulcers of the scalp are diie to simple loss of tissue, for example, after burns or lacerations, the slowness in healing is due, to a great extent, to the difiiculty in contraction of the wound. When a large area of the soft tissues has been lost, the granulations which spring up fix the edges of the wound to the deeper parts, and very soon prevent the further contraction of the sore. The result is that healing ceases after a time, or, if it goes on, the scar is thin and delicate, and constantly breaks down. TREATMENT.—Bearing this fact in mind, the best practice is to skin-graft the u'hole surface (see Vol. I. p. 52) as soon as aU the sloughs Fig. 142.—Lines of Incision for Cellulitis of THE Scalp. The incisions should be vertical and made in the situations, b-b. The attachment of the occipito-frontalis aponeurosis is along the lines a-a.