26o AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS urea. Gouty arthritis, liowever, practically comes under the care of the physician, and further details as to treatment should be sought in medical text-books. RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS. All the joints of the fingers may be involved, and the affection may be associated with a similar condition in the larger joints. The fingers are usually deflected towards the ulnar side, and the joints much en- larged from the outgrowth of fresh bone around the articular surfaces, by which the movements of the fingers are much hampered ; the joints are usually somewhat flexed. The condition is generally associated with considerable pain, and marked exacerbations of the trouble occur from time to time. TREATMEISTT.—This is disappointing, as the disease is obstinate and generahy ends in more or less crippling, in spite of any treatment that may be adopted. In the early stage the usual remedies already described for rheumatoid arthritis (see p. 143) should be had recourse to. In all elderly subjects, and especially in those predisposed to rheumatoid arthritis, it is of the highest importance to remember that fixation of the fingers or joints of the upper extremity, after injuries such as sprains, fractures, or dislocations, is very apt to be followed by this form of disease. Hence in the case of fractures in the arm, forearm, or hand, the greatest care must be taken to leave the fingers free and to encourage active and passive movement from the very first, if it be possible to do so without interfering with union. Even when splints must be applied to the fingers, they should be taken off daily, and the joints exercised, so as to prevent adhesions occurring and to hinder the onset of this crippling disease. These remarks apply perhaps more particularly to CoUes's fracture than to any other, as it is frequently followed by rheumatoid arthritis in the wrist and fingers if prolonged immobilisation, which is so commonly practised, be persisted in. TUBERCULOUS DISEASE. Tuberculous disease of the phalangeal joints is comparatively rare. The deposit much more frequently occurs in the shaft of the bone, in the form of a tuberculous osteo-myelitis, which has already been described (see Vol. II. p. 452). Nevertheless, primary tuberculous arthritis may occur, or tuberculous osteo-myelitis may spread into and invade the joint. TREATMENT.—This is similar to that for tuberculous joint disease elsewhere. The parts are kept at rest with the fingers slightly bent, and this is best effected by putting the hand and affected finger into a silicate bandage and leaving the other fingers free to move. It is impor- tant to remember that it is not sufficient to fix the finger alone ; the hand