551 WOUNDS OF THE SALIVARY DUCTS stitches should be put in to bring the gland substance together over the divided duct, and the wound in the skin should be sewn up. When the injured duct is quite small, the wound may heal without any trou^ble. In other cases a small opening remains in the line of incision through which saliva escapes. Even here, however, the tendency is for the opening to close as the wound contracts. If the closure is very slow, it is well to touch the wall of the sinus with solid nitrate of silver or the actual cautery from time to time, so as to prevent the spread of epithelium along the wall of the fistula and at the same time to stimulate the growth of granulations. Sometimes, however, the wound of the parotid gland may be com- plicated by considerable loss of skin and subcutaneous tissue, and a plastic operation must then be performed, a flap being turned in so as to cover the defect. A small fistulous opening usually forms somewhere in the line of union, but this fistula generally closes as the parts contract ; closure may be hastened b}' the treatment mentioned above. Wound of Stenson's Duct.—This is a much more serious matter, but, owing to its small size and deep position, the duct is comparatively rarely injured except in the course of operations, or by stabs or gunshot wounds. The accident is of great importance, because it is usually followed by a salivary fistula which is extremely difficult to cure. Hence the condition of the duct should be ascertained in all cases in which there is a wound in its vicinity. Treatment.—If the accident is recognised at the time of its occurrence —for example, in the course of an operation—and if no portion of the duct has been removed, an attempt should be made to suture the duct with fine catgut, and then to unite the deeper parts and the wound in the skin. When the duct has been completely divided, a good plan is to take a piece of silver wire with blunt ends and pass one end along the proximal portion of the duct, and the other along the distal part making it emerge at the opening in the mouth. The two ends of the duct are then stitched together over this wire with fine catgut and the external \\-ound is closed. The saliva finds its way into the mouth along the wire ; the end of the wire in the mouth should be bent up against the cheek and guarded by a small piece of gauze. It will remain in position because it is pressed against the gums, and may be removed after two or three days; but mastication and talking should be rigorously avoided for some days longer. When the tissues are much bruised and there is danger of sloughing, this plan is not likely to succeed, and a fistula will almost certainly follow. Therefore, when the wound in the duct is in front of the masseter, the incision should be deepened into the mouth ; in doing this it is well to bear in mind that the branch of the facial nerve which runs along with the duct may have escaped division and should be avoided. All cutting must be done parallel to the duct. A medium-sized drainage tube is