512 AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE sloughing. If it be cut too obliquely, however, the eyebrow and upper eyelid may be drawn up by the contraction of the scar. The incision on the side on which the base of the flap lies should be prolonged farther down towards the root of the nose than that on the other. The flap is supplied by one, or if possible both, of the frontal arteries (see Fig. 237). The incision is carried down to the bone and the periosteum is then stripped up ; it may be well, however, to turn up a thin layer of bone along with the periosteum by means of a fine chisel, so as to have a certain amount of bone to support the flap. The forehead flap may sometimes be planned so as to provide a new columella, but, as a rule, it is better not to do so because this is apt to be too broad and, as the new nose shrinks, there will be insufficient breathing space. A new columella can be formed subsequently, if desired, by turning up the central portion of the upper lip (see Fig. 238). After the forehead flap has been raised it is rotated into position and secured to the raw edges of the defect with fine horsehair sutures. The tip of the nose may be supported by thrusting hare-lip pins across the nasal cavity from side to side, so as to push up the sides of the nose and make it stand fonvard ; the pins are pushed in up to the head on one side, and then, by winding silk around the pin on the other side, or by fixing pieces of cork on it, and pushing them up against the flap, the alae will be retained in position. Usually two pins suffice ; the method is similar to that described for fracture of the nasal bones (see Fig. 205). It is well to plug the opening of the nostrils with strips of iodoform gauze, a drainage tube or a portion of a large catheter being introduced through the centre of the plug to maintain the airway. As soon as the oozing has stopped, the raw surface on the forehead, from which the flap has been raised, may be grafted by Thiersch's method ; any angles of the Fig. 238.—FoRMATiOK of A NEW Columella in Rhino- plasty. The central portion of the lip, isolated by means of the incisions shown above, is turned up to make the columella and sutured in place. The lip is then brought together and sutured below it in the middle line. Fig. 239.—^The Italian or Tagliacotian method of Rhino- plasty. The drawing shows semi- diagrammatically the kind of apparatus required to keep the arm in position during the union of the flap.