533 CLEFT PALATE lateral incisions and the source of haemorrhage exposed. If this be a partially divided vessel at the end of the incision, extension of the incision will probably suffice, especially if it be combined with direct pressure upon the bleeding point with a small piece of sponge dii)ped in adrenalin chloride (i in looo). The treatment of secondary hemorrhage is more difficult. An attempt should be made to check the bleeding by pressure and the application of ice-cold water syringed over the jialate, or small pieces of ice enclosed in muslin may be pressed against the area from which the blood is coming. If this fails, an anjesthetic should be given and the lileeding point exposed. If the vessel cannot be picked up in forceps and tied, the bleeding will probably be coming from the posterior palatine canal, and an attempt should be made to stop it by temporarily plugging the canal with a fine probe. If this does not succeed, the canal may be plugged with Ilorsley's wax (see p. 376). 2. Failure of Union.—The other important complication is failure of imion of the edges of the cleft ; this failure may be partial or complete. It generally happens that only a portion gives way, and this is most common either at the extreme anterior end or about the junction of the hard with the soft palate. Non-union may be due to one of three principal causes :— {a) Imperfect opcratioji.—The cleft may have been insufficiently pared, generally because it has not been pared in one piece ; if it has been pared piecemeal, some part may have been overlooked, or only a very narrow raw surface may have been made. The tension upon the flaps may be so great as to interfere with union ; the flaps may not have been brought properly into apposition, one edge being curled up so that the raw surfaces do not lie opposite each other ; or the stitches may have been tied either too loosely or too tightly. Lastly, the flap may have been so bruised by rough handling that its vitality is seriously diminished. [b) Inteycnn'ciit i)iflammatory affections such as severe catarrh, the onset of a specific fever, or ordinary septic infection may entirely prevent union. Rough handling of the flap is very commonly followed by septic infection of the line of incision. (c) Want of proper care in the after-treatment may bring about failure of union. Among the most important points which may lead to failure of imion after an otherwise satisfactory operation are excessive crying, vomiting, or mechanical violence from the child's fingers or foreign bodies being thrust against the flaps, or from too early administration of solid food. It is well to remember that the gap left after limited failure of union becomes smaller as healing occurs owing to the contraction and union of the granulating surfaces ; this is especially the case in the soft palate.