AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD 368 time of the injury may have a determining effect on the lesions that occur. According to Bouchard, if a blow is received during inspiration, when the brain is more or less completely surrounded by cerebro-spinal fluid, the condition of concussion is produced, whereas if it is received during expiration, when there is less cerebro-spinal fluid in the cranial cavity, the protection of the water-bed is diminished and the more serious condition of contusion results. SYMPTOMS.—The symptoms resulting from this disturbance of the brain vary from drowsiness to complete unconsciousness. The respira- tion becomes shallow and feeble, and the pulse is small, not easily felt, and often unduly slow. After a period varjdng from a few minutes to some hours the pulse improves, the respirations become deeper, the reflexes return, and the patient begins to recover. During recovery, the patient generally vomits and may wander a little. He may also complain of noises in the head or disturbances of vision. In severe cases there is complete prostration ; the surface of the body is cold, the breathing is shallow and quick, the pulse very feeble, and there is frequent vomiting; recovery is often accompanied by symptoms of cerebral irritation. TREATMENT.—Measures must be adopted to diminish the shock, while care is taken to avoid too much reaction lest haemorrhage should occur. The patient should be placed in the recumbent position, and the head raised on a small pillow so as to diminish the risk of haemor- rhage. Warmth should be appHed to the feet and limbs by means of hot blankets and hot-water bottles. Strychnine (gr. gV) or camphor may be administered subcutaneously, but alcoholic stimulants or the administration of ether should be avoided, except in desperate cases, on account of the great risk of increasing the reaction. The patient should be placed in a room free from noise, and a brisk purge should be ad- ministered ; if he is still unconscious five grains of calomel, or one or two drops of croton oil mixed with powdered sugar, may be placed on the back of the tongue. In some cases of concussion there is retention of urine, especially during the stage of recovery, and, if necessary, the urine must be drawn off with a soft catheter. Most cases of concussion will recover under this treatment or even without any special treatment at all. When reaction commences, it is well to apply cold to the head with the view of preventing haemorrhage. The patient should be kept in a dark room and not allowed to see visitors or to talk, and an ice-bag, ice-cap, or Leiter's tubes (see Vol. I. p. 8) should be apphed to the head. Even if the patient apparently recovers completely, there is no certainty that haemorrhage will not take place, and to minimise this risk he should be kept in bed for a week at least, especially when the concussion has been severe. During this time quiet should be maintained, the bowels kept freely open by the daily administration of a saline purge, and the diet considerably restricted. As a rule the patient may be allowed to get up