AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 102 meanwhile. As a rule two or three blisters in succession are required, and as an interval of five or six days is necessary between each blister, this stage of the treatment wiU extend over two or three weeks. If there is any delay in recovery, Bier's treatment should be employed. The joint will then probably be ready for more energetic treatment, which should consist of massage and passive movement with the employ- ment of pressure in the intervals between the manipulations. The massage should be very gentle at first, and, as the effusion subsides, passive and active movements may be begun. The vigour with which the massage is appHed, and the extent to which the movements are carried, must be gauged by the sensations of the patient and the local conditions, more especially the inflammatory symptoms. As a rule, massage may be employed once daily for about a quarter of an hour ; after a few days, this period may be increased and the massage practised twice daily. The pressure should be applied by means of cotton-wool and a bandage (see p. 80), reinforced later on by an elastic bandage. As the inflammatory condition subsides, the movements and massage should be carried out with increasing vigour. Coincidentlj^ the use of splints and bandages should gradually be abandoned. During this period the case should be carefully watched for any increase in the inflammatory symptoms, which would indicate that the treatment is being pushed too rapidly. In freely movable joints, such as the knee, these attacks of acute or sub-acute arthritis are generally recovered from pretty readily, but when the affection occurs in the tarsal or carpal joints there is often great difficulty in completely restoring the functions of the articulations, because the inflammation does not remain limited to the synovial membrane of the joint itself, but affects the tendon sheaths and the ligaments and fascial structures around, so that very extensive adhesions have to be dealt with. A good method of getting rid of any stiffness that remains after a prolonged trial of passive movement and massage is by means of Bier's method of congestion, and of superheated air applied around the joint for about half an hour prior to the massage. This method is referred to in connection with rheumatoid arthritis (see Chap. XVI.). (c) Of cases accompanied by excessive effusion.—As distension of the joint is prejudicial to its ultimate recovery, the stretching of the liga- ments being apt to leave the joint loose afterwards, it is of importance to get rid of any fluid that does not become absorbed after a good trial of the measures just recommended. In the first instance it should be aspirated. The greatest care must be taken to disinfect the skin and the aspirating needle, and the puncture should be covered by coUodion. It is well to blister the joint immediately after aspiration has been performed, and to keep up pressure as soon as the bhster has healed. In a good many cases the fluid will re-accumulate unless more vigorous