RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS 147 unfortunately, those who come most frequently under notice, are poor people who cannot afford to give up their work and are unable to obtain massage, douclies, or any of the ordinary methods of treatment. In these cases all that one can do, besides employing such general treatment as is feasible, is to try to enable the patient to get about with as little pain as possible. For this purpose moulded splints may be employed to fix the joint wlien the pain is severe ; stimulating liniments {vide supra) should be rubbed in niglit and morning, the joint being exercised at the same time. The patient sliould avoid exposure to cold and wet as much as possible. The joint may be firmly strapped with Scott's dressing with advantage before the splint is applied. Other counter- irritants are of little value. The general hygienic, dietetic, and medical indications [vide supra) should be attended to. Operative treatment.—In advanced and very painful cases of rheumatoid arthritis many operative procedures have been practised. DriUing or gouging the ends of the bones in order to diminish the inflammation, removal of osteophytes which interfere with the movements of the joint, excision of the joint, and various operations upon nerves, such as nerve- stretching, or freeing nerves that have become adherent around the joint, have been tried at various times, but most of them without anything more than temporary l)eneht. A good deal of temporary relief may be obtained from drilling or gouging the articular ends in cases in which there is much pain. Of the two methods gouging a hole in the bone, taking care not to encroach on the articular surface, is the more effectual; simple drilling is of little value. Unfortunately the pain frequently recurs. When the patient's chief trouble is due to the presence of osteophytes around the joint interfering with movement, much benefit may be obtained by removing the obstructing masses. A further advantage of the operation is that any adherent nerves in the neighbourhood may be freed, and also that the bone is opened up to a certain extent so that the advantages following gouging will result. It is however comparatively seldom that the operation is advisable ; it may be called for in the hip-joint, when tlie patient suffers severe pain from pressure upon the nerves in the vicinity by osteophytic outgrowths or by actual adhesion of the nerves to the capsule. Should any adherent nerves be found, they should be separated and well stretched (see Vol. II. p. 128). This gives considerable relief, which, however, is seldom permanent. When the disease is limited to one or two joints, when the patient is crippled and when previous treatment has failed, excision may be done. When several joints are affected, excision can hardly be called for, but when the trouble is limited to one joint, especially when this is in the upper extremity, and is one in which mobility may be reasonably looked for as a result of the operation, there does not seem to be any serious objection to e.xcision. In the hip joint the operation is out of the question ;