AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD 392 vein, and later on there are symptoms of pulmonary embolism, diarrhoea, and a general typhoid state. When lepio-memngiiis occurs, the temperature rises and remains high without marked remissions, the pulse becomes more rapid, and there is general irritability. In lepto-meningitis also, the cranial nerves are more frequently implicated than is the case with abscess. Great assistance in the diagnosis is sometimes afforded by a lumbar puncture (see p. 442). The chief s^^mptoms of abscess of the brain are those due to pressure. The temperature is usually subnormal; in fact, if there is any marked pyrexia, meningeal complications may be suspected. The pulse is slow, sometimes only thirty or forty per minute ; the respiration is also slow. Rigors may occur and vomiting is very common. The pain is often very marked, and may be continuous or intermittent ; it is usually referred to the temporal region on the same side as the abscess and is aggravated by percussion over the temporal or cerebellar regions. Cerebration is slow, and there is difficulty in concentrating the attention. Convulsions may occur, but they are not characteristic ; in fact, when convulsive movements with rigidity are present, the pus has passed into the sub- dural space. Optic neuritis is frequently met with ; the pupils may be contracted at first, but before long they become dilated and fixed, and in the earlier stage this dilatation is most marked—or indeed may onty be present—on the affected side. The coma steadily increases, and the fatal result is generally due either to gradual deepening of the coma or to the occurrence of lepto-meningitis. The temperature usually rises towards the end, the breathing becomes quick, and there is great prostration. In some cases special symptoms may be present dependent on the situation of the abscess, but, as a rale, localising symptoms are absent because the abscesses usually form outside the motor area. It may happen that as an abscess in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe increases in size it may exert pressure on the lower part of the ascending frontal and parietal convolutions, and this pressure may gradually extend upwards until various motor centres are affected. An extending paralysis affecting first the face, then the arm, and finally the leg, without loss of sensation, indicates with great probability the presence of an abscess in the temporo- sphenoidal lobe. Paralysis of individual nerves—such as the facial or the third nerve—as the result of the pressure, is not common. Cerebellar abscesses have few localising symptoms. There ma.y be retraction of the head and neck, an increased knee-jerk on one side, or a hemiplegia due to implication of the lateral tracts ; occasionally there is glycosuria, and there may be sudden paralysis of respiration from pressure on the respiratory centre. TREATMENT.—The various complications which follow upon a chronic otorrhoea are so intermingled that it is not possible to consider the treatment of any one of them without the others ; moreover, the middle-ear disease, upon which they all depend, must be treated first in