AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE 5i6 that on the hp and that the former should be done at quite an early age, from a few days upwards. The principal reason for the first of these recommendations is that the gap in the lip gives the surgeon freer access, and this is no doubt a point of considerable importance when the small size of the parts is borne in mind. This question is discussed in connection with the subject of cleft palate. The chief essential in operating on hare-lip is to rei)air the cleft so that no notch is left after operation, and so that the red line of the lip is united accurately. In perfoi^ming the operation two of the points already referred to must be especially borne in mind, namely, that the edges of the cleft are bound down to the gum, and that the nostril on the affected side is broader than on the other. We shall consider the following cases separately: Those in which the cleft does not extend into the nostril ; those in which the cleft does extend into the nostril ; those in which this extension into the nostril is associated with cleft of the alveolus and, perhaps, of the palate as well; and double hare-lip. I. Of an Incomplete Cleft in the lip.—The closure of the gap in these cases is usually a comparatively simple matter. The attachment of the lip to the alveolus must be freed, if present, and the gap pared so as to leave a concave surface on each side. If the nostril is not wider than normal and the structures above the apex of the cleft are of natural thickness, the knife is entered just above the apex of the cleft and the curved incision shown in Fig. 240, A, is made through the whole thickness of the lip on each side. When the two cut surfaces are brought together in the middle line, there will be a projection downwards of the red line (see Fig. 240, B), which is afterwards obliterated by the contraction of the vertical scar. The stitches are inserted so as to bring the red line on the two sides into accurate apposition. The sutures in the mucous membrane should be of fine catgut, but at the red line and at the centre of the vertical woimd it is better to use silkworm-gut going through nearly the whole thickness of the lip. One or two intermediate stitches of fine horse-hair will be needed to complete the union. A B Fig. 240.—Operation for Simple Hare-lip without widening of the Nostril. When the cleft is pared, as shown in A, and the edges are brought together, the slight downward projection seen in B occurs at the free margin of the lip.