25 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER TREATMENT OF THE COMPLICATIONS OF DISLOCATION OF THE SHOULDER. Bruising of the muscles inserted into the tuberosities of the humerus is practically constant, but is generally recovered from without trouble. Fracture of the humerus may complicate the dislocation ; the fracture may occur either in the shaft or the neck of the bone. Injury to vessels or nerves—particularly the axillary artery, the brachial plexus, or the circumflex nerve—may be met with, especially in sub- glenoid or sub-coracoid dislocations. The injury may vary from simple bruising to complete rupture ; in the majority of dislocations of the shoulder these structures are bruised to some extent. DISLOCATION COMPLICATED BY FRACTURE.— This accident is not at all uncommon, and the condition is readily shown in a stereoscopic radiogram. Treatment must be immediate and thorough in order to preserve the usefulness of the limb. Treatment.—When the fracture is in the shaft.—Should the fracture occur low down in the shaft of the bone, it may be possible to reduce the dislocation first, and then put up the fracture in the ordinary manner. The principal importance of tliis injury is that stiffness of the shoulder- joint is apt to follow, and special measures have to be taken to prevent this. When the fracture is quite low down in the shaft, the fracture should be surrounded with well-moulded splints, which will permit of free passive movements of the joint with but very slight disturbance of the fracture. It is highly important not to keep the arm fixed to the side until consolida- tion has occurred ; if this be done, a hopelessly stiff shoulder will certainly result. When the fracture is in the upper third of the shaft, however, and in all cases of combined fracture and dislocation in elderly subjects in whom operation is not contra-indicated, the proper practice is to expose the seat of the fracture without delay, reduce the dislocation, and secure the fragments together by the most appropriate methods of fixation (see Vol. II. p. 305). The reduction of the dislocation should be accomplished, if possible, before the fractured ends are fastened together, as there is then less risk of undue strain being thrown upon the plates or wires used; but should this be impossible, the fracture is fixed in the first place, and then the leverage obtained will allow of reduction being accomplished. When the fracture is in the neck.—When, however, the fracture is situated in the neighbourhood of the surgical or the anatomical neck, the small size of the upper fragment renders it difficult, if not impossible, to reduce the dislocation. Formerly, the fractured ends were brought into position and allowed to consolidate in the first instance, and afterwards an attempt was made to reduce the dislocation. For reasons already mentioned when speaking of unreduced dislocation (see p. 6) this practice should not be followed. It has also been suggested that when the