363 CRANIO-TABES bleeding has been arrested, the raw surface is impregnated with undikited carbolic acid, for it is very important to render the wound as aseptic as possible. The opening is then enlarged in any direction that may seem most suitable, flaps are turned aside, and the diseased area is exposed. A trephine larger than the necrotic area is then applied, the outer table of the skull divided, and the whole necrotic area gently chipped away with a chisel and hammer. Very frequently the sequestrum does not go deeper, and in that case it is advisable not to interfere with the internal table. Should the disease be found to extend deeper, however, the trephine can be reapplied and the internal table removed. The bone is often very dense and difficult to cut through and, should this opening not be sufficient, it is not at all easy to enlarge it with cutting forceps; it will generally be necessary to make additional trephine openings. Great care should be taken not to injure the dura mater on account of the danger of septic meningitis. The cut surfaces of bone should be sponged with undiluted carbolic acid. As these operations are usually undertaken in cases of open wounds, it is not easy to close the wound again, and usually it must be packed with gauze. This is probably the best treatment when the internal table has not been removed, and it should be continued until the whole wound is covered with healthy granulations. Skin-grafting may then be employed (see Vol. I. p. 52), otherwise there may be great delay in the healing of the wound owing to the difficulty of contraction. When, however, the whole thickness of the bone has been cut through, and the dura has been exposed, it is better to attempt to close in the exposed dura mater at once by some form of plastic operation. It may be necessary to make a curved incision outwards and downwards from one angle of the wound, so as to allow a portion of the scalp to be turned in over the wound (see Vol. I. p. 159). With this treatment the patient is much more likely to recover and to escape complications than when medicinal treatment alone is adopted. The syphilitic bone diseases of infancy and childhood do not call for special mention. The treatment is that of congenital syphilis (see Vol. L Chap. XL), and, so long as the skin has not ulcerated, it will suffice to employ general antisyphilitic measures. CRANIO-TABES. Very little need be said about congenital defects in the skull, because there is practically nothing to be done for them. In some cases there may be so much atrophy of the skull as actually to lead to the formation of perforations in the bone. This condition is common in the skulls of aged people and cannot be averted. In infants, a localised thinning of the skull occurs termed cranio-tabes, and is essentially due to rickets Some authorities ascribe it to congenital