330 AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD vessels bleeding and these should be controlled by sponge pressure and ligatured one by one. In large wounds, and especially when a consider- able area of the scalp has been detached, there wiU in all probabihty be so many bleeding points that a serious amount of blood may be lost before aU the vessels can be picked up; in such cases Ballance's forceps (Fig. 139, A) are useful. They should be applied along the whole length of the margins of the wound before the tourniquet is removed (see Fig. 140) ; they can then be removed one by one, the vessels controlled by each pair being ligatured before the next pair is taken off. I In some situations it is by no means easy to stop the bleeding. For example, in wounds in which the temporal artery has been divided, the vessel may retract under the temporal fascia to such an extent that it is a matter of extreme difficulty to catch the divided ends. In fact, in some cases the external carotid artery has been tied in order to arrest the bleeding. That is, however, a very severe procedure and can hardly ever be necessary, even when secondary haemorrhage takes place from the vessel. Under ordinary circumstances the proper procedure is to control the bleeding temporarily by digital compression of the trunk of the temporal artery as it passes over the base of the zygoma, and then to slit up the fascia, and search for and tie the divided artery. The edges of the wound should be brought together by a few interrupted sutures of silkworm-gut, which is firm, soft, and flexible, and at the same time does not absorb moisture and does not therefore become septic. A drainage tube should be inserted at one angle of the wound, because it is impossible to be quite sure that the disinfection has been thoroughly carried out, and also because in any case the vigorous disinfection will lead to a good deal of serous effusion. If a large flap of scalp has been torn down so that the lowest limit of the separation is below the angles of the wound, the best plan is to make a small counter- opening through the centre of the flap at the lowest point and insert a drainage tube. Fig. 140.—Ballance's Forceps applibd to arrest H.tMORRHAGE FROM THE SCALP. The details of the forceps are seen in Fig. 139,-4. As applied in the sketch they control nearly the whole of the blood-supply of the flap.