331 CELLULITIS OF THE SCALP A large dressing should be applied over the whole scalp and fixed on in the usual manner. If, at the end of two or three days, it is found that infection has not occurred, the drainage tube should be removed and the wound allowed to close. When wounds are large it is well to keep the patient in bed for three or four days. ERYSIPELAS. Erysipelas was formerly a very common complication of scalp wounds, but nowadays, when greater care is taken in the disinfection of accidental wounds, it is seldom seen. It may also arise as an extension from erysipelas of the face or neck, or in connection with a boil or other septic affection of the skin. Erysipelas of the scalp pre- sents the ordinary features of erysipelas, which have been already described in Vol. I. p. 196. Its gravity in this region is owing to the great tendency of the inflammation to spread to the skull and lead to septic meningitis or septic thrombosis of the diploic veins. TREATMENT. — The treatment is practically the same as that of erysipelas elsewhere. It is well to shave the head and thoroughly disinfect the skin, and then to carry out treatment on the lines laid down in Vol. I. ACUTE CELLULITIS. Acute cellulitis is a common result of infection of scalp wounds, and may occur in combination with erysipelas. It is a very grave condition, because in the first place the pus tends to spread beneath the fascia over a large area, and in the second place it is extremely liable to lead to sinus thrombosis with pyaemia, or to septic lepto-meningitis. TREATMENT.—The treatment of this condition has been de- scribed in speaking of diffuse cellulitis in Vol. I. ; when this affection occurs in the scalp, the treatment must be even more energetic than else- where, owing to the rapid manner in which the inflammation may spread over the vertex, and the serious complications which may occur. Free incisions must be made through the occipito-frontalis aponeurosis in a Fig. 141.—The Structures in relation to the Cranial Vault, a. Skin; b, subcutaneous tissue; c, aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis muscle; d, sub- aponeurotic space ; e. skull; /, dura mater ; g, sub-dural space ; h, arachnoid; i, sub-arachnoid space ; k, pia mater.