SUPPURATION FROM MIDDLE-EAR DISEASE 393 every case. The first point in the treatment of an^^ given case is therefore to open up the mastoid antrum and the middle ear. Any softened and diseased bone beyond the limits of the antrum should be gouged away, and in most cases it is well to extend the incision in the bone backwards so as to expose the lateral sinus and thus ascertain the condition of the dura and of the sinus itself. The roof of the attic should also be examined. The further steps of the treatment will depend upon the conditions found. When extra-dural suppuration is present, tlie treatment in many cases may stop after the bone has been freely removed, provided always that the lateral sinus is unaffected. When there is pus in the sigmoid groove, the condition of the lateral sinus must be very carefully investigated. As a rule it is possible to make out by palpation whether or not it is throm- bosed ; but in case of doubt, it is quite permissible to puncture it with a needle. If it be healthy, it will bleed freely; if thrombosed, broken-down clot or pus may be found. Should free venous bleeding result, ihe sinus need not be further interfered with ; on the other hand, should septic thrombosis have occurred, the sinus must be opened up and thoroughly cleansed, and at the same time all connection between it and the lungs must be cut off. Usually the operative procedures need not go farther than this, unless a cerebral or cerebellar abscess is obviously present. In cases of suspected abscess of the cerebrum or cerebellum, the symptoms often subside after opening up the mastoid antrum and the sigmoid groove, and therefore in indefinite cases, it is well to await developments for a day or two. Should symptoms pointing to suppuration either in the sub-dural space or in the brain continue, a further operation should be done. We shall therefore consider the following operations in connection with these cases : (i) The operation upon the mastoid antrimi; (2) the exposure of the lateral sinus and its groove ; (3) the methods of deahng with a thrombosed lateral sinus ; (4) the steps necessary for opening extra-dural abscesses over the roof of the tympanum; (5) the treatment of sub-dural suppuration, both localised and diffuse ; and (6) the methods of treating cerebral and cerebellar abscess. The methods of treatment appropriate to each of these conditions will be described separately; but it should be clearly borne in mind that in actiral practice the surgeon may be called upon to adopt several of them in succession at the same operation. In many cases of middle- ear disease with symptoms apparently pointing to intra-cranial mischief it may be quite impossible to diagnose the actual lesion present, until more than one of these complications has been investigated. We shall describe the steps of the procedure that should be carried out in these cases ; it will be seen that the surgeon feels his way, as it were, step by step, and that his procedure is dictated by the conditions found. Of course, when the particular lesion can be accurately diagnosed, the appropriate treatment should be adopted at once. The Operation upon the Mastoid Antrum.—In all cases of middle-ear