AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 164 thigh close to the perineum, and in rare cases abscesses forming in front of the joint may burrow upwards beneath Poupart's Ugament, occupy the iliac fossa, and give rise to one of the forms of pelvic abscess. Abscesses may also form in the pelvis in connection with primary acetabular disease, and thence spread upwards into the iliac fossa, down- wards into the ischio-rectal fossa, or into the buttock through the sacro-sciatic notch. A third source of origin of abscesses in the iliac fossa is suppuration in the iUac glands without any direct connection with the diseased joint. CLINICAL STAGES.—From the point of view of treatment it is convenient to divide tuberculous hip-joint disease into four clinical stages, although in practice it is not always easy to distinguish where one stage ends and another commences. These four stages are as foUows :— In the first stage there is no enlargement of the acetabulum and no absorption of the neck of the femur. There is consequently no shortening of the limb, which, however, is slightly flexed, abducted, and rotated outwards. The patient tilts the pelvis downwards on the affected side in walking, and this causes apparent lengthening of the Limb. The muscles of the thigh and buttock rapidly waste, and their electrical reaction is somewhat impaired. There is some limitation of movement and a varying amount of pain and limping when the patient walks. In the second stage the articular cartilage is being destroyed and enlargement of the acetabular cavity is occurring, but there is no abscess formation. Here the limb is shortened to a degree corresponding to the amount of enlargement of the acetabulum and absorption of the head and neck of the femur. There is considerable pain, with starting of the limb at night. The limb is flexed to a greater or less extent, rotated inwaids and somewhat adducted. The affected side of the pelvis is raised on walking, so that the shortening appears to be greater than it really is. The real shortening varies from about a quarter of an inch to two inches. As the disease progresses, the muscles, especially the adductors, become shortened and offer considerable opposition to the restoration of the limb to its proper position. In this stage are included the cases of true dislocation without suppuration. In the third stage suppuration is taking place. The changes in the joint and the position of the limb are similar to those in the second stage, though they are generally more marked, and abscesses or sinuses are also present. When, however, suppuration occurs early in the disease, the position of the limb may be more nearly that of the first stage than of the second. The abscesses may or may not communicate with the joint; generally they do so, but in some cases the osseous deposit is nearer the trochanter and does not open into the joint. A rectal examination should never be omitted when examining a case of hip-joint disease for abscess, as the inner surface of the acetabulum can easily be palpated and its condition on the two sides compared ; if there is a pelvic abscess