AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE 500 from the cheek just in front of the jaw through the flap and back again at a different spot, so that when tied it brings the deep surface of the flap in contact with the structures underneath. Two or three of these stitches, in addition to marginal sutures, will ensure the satisfactory application of the flap, but care must be taken in inserting them that they do not strangulate the flap. After the expiration of about four weeks, tlie base of the flap over the masseter is cut across and the free portion turned forward like the lid of a box and stitched into the front part of the defect, so that the epithelial surface is made to look into the mouth and replace the lost mucous membrane. The outer raw surface of this flap is then covered by another flap from the skin over the jaw and neck. Even when there is a hole in the cheek, this plan can be carried out unless the defect is very far back. The deep flap wiU require depilation (see p. 451). 3. A large defect with no sound skin and complete closure of the jaws.— These are most difficult cases, as sufficient material for the deep flap cannot be obtained from the cheek. The flap must therefore be provided either from the neck or from the forehead. The first thing is to divide the cicatricial tissue fixing the jaw, so as to allow the mouth to be opened freely. A box-wood wedge is then inserted between the jaws on the sound side and an attempt made to close the opening by two superimposed flaps. The margins of the defect are first pared (except at the upper part) and a flap is turned down from the forehead (see Fig. 230). If there is cicatricial tissue over the internal pterygoid this must be removed, and the flap should be shaped so as to cover the raw surface left. The flap is taken from the corresponding side of the forehead, the incision being carried along the line of junction of the hair and forehead, and curved back- wards around the outer edge of the orbit. It is well to make a pattern of the defect and to cut the flap on the forehead about a quarter of an inch larger than this. The flap of skin and subcutaneous fat is turned down and the eyebrow and upper eyelid are also displaced downwards, the incisions being continued low enough to allow the free edge of the flap to be attached to the lower and posterior margins of the gap, and stitched to the mucous membrane with its cutaneous surface inwards. The prolongation, destined to cover the raw surface over the internal pterygoid, is fixed in position, either by catgut stitches or by sutures running through the whole thickness of the cheek, as described in connection with the preceding operation. It is not necessary to pare the upper edge of the gap at this stage, because no union can occur there and paring it would only entail additional contraction. A superficial flap is then formed by carrying an incision downwards from the anterior part of the gap into the neck, curving it backwards, and dissecting up a skin-flap. In this way the cut edge of the mucous membrane and the buccinator muscle over it are attached to the deep flap, while the superficial flap is made to slide upwards and forwards.