NERVOUS AFFECTIONS 137 JOINT AFFECTIONS FROM NEURITIS. When the affection is due to neuritis or to injury of the peripheral nerves, the question of operation will have to be considered. Operation will have for its object either the arrest of the neuritis or the union of divided portions of the nerves, after which a certain amount of recovery from the joint trouble may be hoped for. For the treatment of these nerve lesions, the reader is referred to Vol. II. Chap. X. NEUROSES OF JOINTS. These affections generally occur in women between the ages of eighteen and thirty, but may be met with at any period ; they also occur in hysterical men. Any joint may be affected, but the hip and the knee are the most common. In some cases the diagnosis is extremely difficult. True joint disease may be simulated almost perfectly, but, as a rule, examination reveals a material discrepancy between the symptoms complained of, and those which should be present were the case one of organic disease. This is particularly noticeable in respect of the pain, which, in hysterical cases, is often said to be extremely severe and even excruciating. It will, however, usually be found that the pain is superficial and is not excited on jarring the articular ends together. One of the marked symptoms of the hysterical condition is hyperesthesia of the skin and structures around the joint. The general condition of the patient also frequently denotes the presence of hysteria. Another great characteristic of these affections is contracture of the muscles around the articulation, so that the limb is usually flexed and attempts to extend it cause great pain. Notwithstanding this, it will generally be found that there is no thickening of, and no morbid changes in the joint. These contractures usually disappear completely under an anaesthetic, and do not return until the patient comes round again. Hence one of the most important points in the diagnosis, and also an important element in the treatment, is the examination of the joint under an anaesthetic. At a later stage, however, organic contracture of the muscles may occur, or adhesions may form in the peri-articular tissues and interfere with the mobihty of the hmb ; in these cases the deformity does not disappear entirely when an anaesthetic is administered. TREATMENT.—The best results are usually obtained in young patients, and the main lines of treatment are to encourage the use of the joint and to interest them in various matters, and so to prevent them from concentrating too much attention on their particular ailment. In some cases it may be advisable to impress the patient by the applica- tion of some painful counter-irritant to the joint. In adults the treatment is very difficult, and it is essential to acquire the patient's confidence and to realise that she really does suffer pain,