AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE 548 cartilaginous portion, but not actually on to the tympanic membrane, a portion of the bony meatus must also be removed. This is done by means of a gouge and hammer, a tube of bone being taken away, along with the cartilaginous meatus. The bleeding is arrested and the wound brought together above and below, leav- ing a central cavity, at the bottom of which is the tympanic membrane. The auricle is then stitched back into position and skin-grafts may be placed over the cut surface of bone around the tympanum to promote immediate healing, and to maintain a passage leading to the membrana tympani. When the disease has penetrated through the cartilaginous meatus and extends into the tissues around, especially the parotid, it is best not to operate in the majority of cases. If operation be undertaken it will be necessary to excise the parotid gland completely, and not to make any attempt to remove the diseased por- tions alone or to pick out the infected glands. Unless the entire parotid gland is removed, the disease is certain to recur almost immediately. Fig. 268. — Plastic Operations for REDUCING THE SIZE OF THE AuRlCLE. The lines a6c show the incisions for reducing the vertical dimensions of the ear; while de, fg, dg represent those necessary to reduce its transverse measurement. WOUNDS OF THE PAROTID GLAND. Wounds of the parotid gland are of importance because they may injure the external carotid artery and its branches, the facial nerve or the salivary ducts. TREATMENT.—So far as the wound is concerned, the treatment is similar to that for accidental wounds elsewhere. The essential points to be considered in connection with these injuries are the three complications just mentioned. Of Haemorrhage.—When a large vessel has been injured, the wound should be carefully enlarged, avoiding, if possible, any damage to the facial nerve. The opening should be enlarged in a transverse or oblique direction rather than vertically. When the parotid gland has been exposed, a flat dissector may be used to separate the parotid tissue itself, so as to avoid injury to the facial nerve. In most cases it is not advisable to enlarge the wound sufficiently to apply a ligature to a deep-seated vessel, as the chance of injuring the nerve is very great;