PLASTIC SURGERY 509 the flap. The end of the flap is then stitched with catgut to the freshened end of the cartilaginous portion of the gap (see Fig. 235, C), so that its cutaneous or deep surface covers the aperture into the nasal cavity between the bony and the cartilaginous portions. Above this gap the skin should be carefully stripped off the under surface of the flap, which is thus made raw and can become adherent to the tissues of the bridge. At the root of the nose there is a redundance of skin from the folding of the pedicle, which will be divided subsequently and turned upwards. The lateral flaps are finally undermined and united over the raw surface of the reflected flap (see Fig. 235, D). The upper transverse incisions should be curved downwards and outwards ; this allows a certain amount of sliding of the flaps downwards so that they can cover the opening between the tip of the nose and the bridge. The incision in the forehead is readily stitched up and leaves a hardly perceptible linear scar. At the end of three weeks the base of the reflected flap is divided and the little portion left above is trimmed into a triangular shape and fitted into the lower part of the vertical incision on the forehead. The result is that the position of the nostrils is corrected and a bony bridge is formed; but the latter tends to sink downwards during healing, and as a rule will not be high enough. After healing has occurred, we have, however, been able to heighten the bridge to the required extent by turning aside the skin-flaps again and introducing a piece of bone removed from the patient's tibia large enough to raise the bridge to its proper level. This cannot be done at the first operation if there is a free communication with the nasal cavity, on account of the risk of sepsis ; if care be taken not to reopen the nasal cavity at the second operation, however, the pieces of bone will unite and give a satisfactory result. In one case in which the bridge was still not higli enough to please the patient we turned aside the flaps and put in some fresh splinters of bone about eighteen months later, with the result that the patient was ultimately completely satisfied. At the present time these subsequant operations would be replaced by the introduction of soHd paraffin. Another method is Langenbeck's. In it a convex incision is made across the nose over the line of junction of the cartilaginous and bony portions, and the tip is liberated, and pulled down in the manner described above. The crescentic defect left is filled by a flap of similar shape turned down from the forehead, taking up the periosteum and having its skin-surface inwards. After union has occurred, the base of this flap is divided and the skin over the nose and the adjacent part of the cheek on each side is brought over it. A similar flap is made by Konig, but this includes a thin layer of bone. These operations, however, are more concerned with the repair of the opening left after the liberation of the tip of the nose than with the restoration of the bridge; in bad cases it may be well to commence with this operation and, when the tip has been