264 AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE 2. In more severe forms of injury the ligaments of the vertebral canal are torn, and ha;morrhage results ; haemorrhage may also occur without rupture of the ligaments. The blood may collect either outside or inside the dura mater ; this condition is known as hceniato-rachis. 3. As the consequence of severe injuries or jars—with or without rupture of ligaments or muscles—concussion of the spinal cord may result ; here there is more or less complete but temporary loss of function of the cord. 4. Apart from haemorrhage into the spinal meninges, bleeding in the substance of the cord itself—hcemaio-myelia—may occur in some cases of severe injury. According to Thorburn this is practically limited to the cord in the lower cervical region. 5. Lastly, we may have dislocation of the spine, occurring chiefly in the upper cervical region, or, much more frequently, a. fracture-dislocation, which is most common in the lower cervical and the dorso-lumbar regions. SPRAINS. Severe sprains of the spine are usually associated with partial rupture of ligaments or tearing of the tendinous insertions of the spinal muscles. In very severe injuries, the ligamenta subflava may be actually torn ; these cases are grave, and are accompanied by hsmato-rachis. Sprains most often affect the lumbar region, and less frequently the cervical region, this distribution being due to the fact that these are the most mobile portions of the spinal column. The symptoms vary much in severity. In the mildest cases there may be only slight pain at the time of the accident, but considerable pain and tenderness on pressure generally develop in the course of from twelve to twenty-four hours. In severe cases, the patient often experiences agonising pain on attempting to move the spine or the limbs, so that the back is kept absolutely rigid, and a condition of paraplegia may be diagnosed, unless the examination is conducted carefully. Extravasation of blood may be present in bad cases, but usually there are no symptoms indicating injury of the spinal cord unless intra-spinal haemorrhage has occurred. These injuries are of great practical importance, because, unless treatment is prompt and sufficiently prolonged, the patient is liable to great, and even permanent, disability as the result of chronic inflammation of the damaged tissues. In some cases also, especially in children, sprains of the spine may be followed by the development of tuberculous disease. TREATMENT.—The treatment differs according as the patient is seen immediately after the injury, or does not come under observation until a considerable time has elapsed. (a) In Recent cases.—In cases which are at all severe, absolute rest in the recumbent position should be enforced for a few days, the pain being