AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE 450 TUMOURS. SEBACEOUS CYSTS. These are not uncommon ; in the case of the cj'sts situated on the face, the wall is much thinner than in those which occur on the scalp. TREATMBISTT.—The method of removing these cysts has been already fully described (see Vol. II. p. 20). To avoid unnecessary scarring, the incision should be planned so as to lie as far as possible in the natural folds of the cheek. Injury to the facial nerve is not likely to happen, if the superficial part of the cyst wall is properly defined, and the soft parts separated from the rest of the wall with a blunt dissector. DERMOID CYSTS. Dermoid cysts occur chiefly about the outer angle of the orbit, in the line of the inter-maxillary cleft, in the middle line in front, or sometimes in the substance of the cheek (see Fig. 200). The cysts about the external angle of the orbit, which are the commonest, may com- municate with the interior of the skull through an aperture in the frontal bone, but they are always external to the dura mater. TREATMENT.—In removing these cysts more care is required to avoid the branches of the facial nerve than is necessary in the case of sebaceous cysts, because dermoid cysts are more deeply situated. The incision over the tumour should be parallel to the branches of the nerve, and. Fig. 200.—Lines along which as soou as the cyst Wall has been Dermoids OCCUR. reached, the rest of the separation should be done with a blunt dissector, and the cyst removed entire. N^VI. These are very common on the face, and naturally call for treatment both from the discoloration they cause when the naevus is superficial and from the swelling when the tumour is of the venous variety. TREATMENT.—When the naevus is quite small and fairly super- ficial, excision will probably give the best result and leave the smallest scar. The incision should, if possible, be made parallel to the branches of the facial nerve and along one of the natural folds of the skin. If the tumour is large, it is best to treat the superficial portion by freezing it with CO2 (see Vol. I. p. 262), and the deeper part by electrolysis. For the large, deep-seated venous nasvi of the cheek, electrolysis is