DISEASES OF THE ANKLE-JOINT AND TARSUS 221 When the disease is primary in the hone its most frequent seat is in the astragahis ; after this come the malleoh, particularly the inner one, and when the malleoli are affected there is enlargement of the bone in addition to the general swelling of the joint. When the astragalus is primarily affected there may be no marked enlargement of the joint in the early stages, and it may be difficult to diagnose the disease ; the X-rays, however, may help in the diagnosis. The deposit may be in the substance of the bone and make its way to the surface outside the joint, but in the majority of cases the deposit occurs beneath the articular cartilage and soon opens either into the ankle- joint or the astragalo-scaphoid joint. If the disease is left untreated, the toes gradually become pointed ; while, as the result of the softening of the ligaments, there may be lateral deviation of the foot, particularly to the outer side. When abscesses occur, they usually point on the antero-lateral aspects of the joint. A common complication is tuberculous disease of the extensor tendon sheaths and of those passing behind the internal malleolus. TREATMENT.—As in the case of other joints, we may distinguish various stages of the disease from the point of view of treatment. These are : (i) primary osseous deposits; (2) synovial thickening ; (3) joint disease complicated by abscesses or sinuses ; (4) recovery with deformity. 1. Of primary osseous deposits.—If these can be diagnosed and are accessible they should be removed at once, and in some cases the joint may be saved. Should the deposit be in the base of either malleolus, it may be reached through an incision over the enlarged bone, and scooped out with a sharp spoon. Unless there are signs of advanced disease of the joint as well, the removal of the bone deposit will suffice in the first instance, and the joint trouble may be treated by the expectant measures described below. When the deposit occurs in the astragalus, that bone must be removed in order to obtain a cure. Unfortunately these cases are seldom diagnosed until the synovial membrane of the ankle-joint has become widely involved, when arthrectomy combined with removal of the astragalus (see p. 222) should be performed. 2. Of synovial thickening.—When the disease in the ankle-joint is primarily synovial or when a deposit in one of the bones has been removed and the synovial thickening left, the case should be treated on lines similar to that recommended for other joints, the first essential being rest in the recumbent position, combined with fixation of the joint. Most cases of disease of the ankle-joint result in anchylosis if they get well, and therefore the limb must be kept in the position in which it will be most useful afterwards ; this will be at, or slightly less than, a right angle to the leg. The thing to avoid is pointing of the toes, as it is most essential to comfort in walking that the heel should reach the ground and