AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 222 support the weight; when the toes are pointed, the whole weight is thrown on the heads of the metatarsal bones. Care must also be taken to see that there is no lateral deviation of the foot. The best arrangement is to fix the limb in Croft's lateral splints extending from the knee to the roots of the toes (see Vol. II. p. 266). The patient should be kept recumbent, with the limb slightly elevated, tmtil the disease is weU advanced towards cure ; afterwards he may be allowed to get about on crutches, the best arrangement being to fit him with a peg-leg (see Fig. 86) so that the weight is supported upon the knee instead of the ankle. He may then get about with the aid of a crutch or a stick. In addition, other methods for ^the treatment of tuberculous joints may be employed, such as the injection of iodofoim emulsion (which is readUy effected in front of the internal malleolus) and Bier's method of passive congestion (see Vol. I. p. 13). In children, however, arthrectomy should be performed comparatively early unless rapid improvement follows these methods. Tuberculous disease of the ankle is often very obstinate, and is not infrequently associated with tuberculous meningitis or phthisis, while the functional result after recovery without operation is not so good as when arthrectomy has been performed, a stiff ankle being a great drawback. Hence we do not think that expectant treatment should be persevered with for any length of time, unless marked improvement is taking place. This is contrary to what we advise in the case of other joints such as the hip, but the functional result after arthrectomy combined with excision of the astragalus is so good and the disease is so effectually got rid of, that early operation is desirable, especially in children. Arthyectomy.—Avthrectomy of the ankle-joint may be performed in various ways, but either temporary resection of the malleoli or removal of the astragalus is essential in order to obtain free access to the posterior part of the joint ; some surgeons prefer one, some the other procedure. Our own opinion is that the best result, both from the point of view of complete removal of the disease and the functional result afterwards, is obtained by combining excision of the astragalus with the arthrectomy. The division of the malleoli does not seem to be so satisfactory, as the difficulty of obtaining access to the back of the joint is not entirely overcome, and, moreover, the area of cartUage and bone wluch has to be examined, and from which the tuberculous disease may have to be removed, is not so accessible ; any disease left behind is apt to infect the cut surfaces of the malleoli, whilst their union afterwards may not be quite accurate and deformity may consequently occur. Further than this, the astragalus is very commonly the primary seat of disease, and small sub-cartilaginous deposits may be overlooked if the bone is left behind; lastly, division of the malleoli in young children may interfere with the epiphyseal line. On the other hand, removal of