4o8 AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD of the brain. It. is partly with this object that the bone is replaced after trephining. Some surgeons also introduce between the edges of the opening in the dura mater and the brain a piece of gold-foil, or other unirritating thin material, larger in area than the opening in the dura, so as to prevent the two surfaces from coming in contact and adhering. In operations carried out in this manner, hernia cerebri should not occur— especially if the dressing is arranged so as to form a support during healing. When a hernia of this t^'pe has occurred, it is usually sufficient to wait for the subsidence of the oedema, keeping up pressure over the orifice in the skull in the meanwhile ; as a rule the hernia will recede in the course of a few days. Should it not do so, the cause is usually too small an opening in the dura mater or adhesion between the latter and the brain. Fig. 175. Aseptic Hernia Cerebri. A shows the true primary aseptic form which occurs after an operation in which there is a defect left in both scalp and dura mater, which is represented by the thick line. B shows an aseptic hernia cerebri which is secondary to an increase in the intra-cranial pressure, e.g. from oedema. The scalp wound has healed, but the pressure has caused the incision in the dura to give way and the brain protrude beneath the scalp. Under such circumstances it may be advisable to turn down the flap again—after the lapse of four or five days—enlarge the opening in the dura mater, and separate any adhesions between its margins and the brain, so as to allow the protrusion to recede into the cranial cavity. After the opening in the dura mater has been enlarged, it is well to incorporate in the dressing a plate of sterilised block tin, or other firm material, rather larger than the opening in the bone, and to keep it in place by an elastic bandage. This will support and prevent increase in the size of the protrusion and lead to its gradual return into the cranial cavity. CASES IN WHICH THE PARTS HAVE BEEN EXPOSED TO SEPTIC CONTAMINATION. A B {a) In some cases (he hernia cerebri occurs at the time of the injury. This is practically a primary hernia cerebri because it occurs before septic