DISEASES OF THE ELBOW-JOINT 247 injuring the posterior interosseous nerve opposite the neck of the radius. It is well to make the incisions as free as possible, because plenty of room is required to enable the surgeon to see clearly what he is doing. The incisions are carried down to the condyles of the humerus, and the removal of the synovial membrane from the back of the joint is first proceeded with. The capsule can usually be readily defined, especially on the outer side, and the skin and subcutaneous tissues are raised from it by the handle of the knife or a blunt dissector. The whole of the capsule over the radio-ulnar and the radio-humeral articulations is thus gradually separated as far as the edge of the ole- cranon. The triceps is also raised from the capsule as far as the middle line of the joint ; a similar procedure is adopted on the inner side, care being taken to raise the ulnar nerve from its gi'oove behind the internal condyle along with the soft parts. The fingers can then be made to meet across the back of the joint between the triceps and the capsule, and the whole upper part of the synovial membrane is sepa- rated and can be divided by a knife at its reflection on to the bone and peeled down- wards ; it is also divided on each side in the line of the B incisions, and is cut away below at its attachments to the olecranon and to the radius and ulna respectively. The next step is to deal with the anterior part of the synovial mem- brane. In order to do this it is advisable partially to detach the tendi- nous origins of the muscles from the condyles of the humerus, beginning on the outer side. The periosteum is incised and stripped forwards along with the muscles, which are pulled forwards by an assistant who holds the limb flexed to a right angle, while the anterior surface of the capsule is defined and separated by a blunt dissector and the fingers. Special care must be taken not to damage the posterior interosseous nerve in the lower part of the incision. The structures on the inner side are then dealt with in a similar manner, Fig. gg.—Incisions for Arthrectomy of the Elbow- joint. These arc similar to those recommended for use in excision. A is the incision on the inner ; B, that on the outer side.