CONTUSION AND LACERATION OF THE BRAIN 369 at the end of a week, but the possibility of after-consequences (especially mental irritability) must always be borne in mind. A mechanic may be able to resume work at the end of a few weeks, provided that his employ- ment does not entail climbing ladders, or working at a height ; these are dangerous on account of the liability of these patients to suffer from attacks of giddiness. Such a patient would, therefore, be well advised to seek less dangerous employment for a few months, but after that time, if he has had no attacks of giddiness, he may be allowed to resume his former employment. In the case of patients whose work entails intellectual effort, the disability is often more pronounced, and the patient, although he feels quite well, may be unable to add up a column of figures accurately or without getting a headache, or to act in an emergency with his former judgment and decision. This applies also to engine-drivers, chauffeurs, and others, from whom rapid and almost auto- matic decisions are constantly demanded ; such patients should lead a quiet life for six to nine months. There is no need to confine them to bed or even to the house. Mild out-of-door exercise may be permitted, and they may undertake light work which does not involve any severe mental strain. The diet should be light and nutritious, but alcohol should only be allowed in the very strictest moderation, and it is better to forbid it altogether. Smoking, on the other hand, may be permitted. CONTUSION AND LACERATION OF THE BRAIN. In some cases the laceration of the brain, of which we have spoken in connection with concussion, is very marked, and this may occur with or witliout fracture of the skull itself. The injury to the brain may be situated immediately beneath the seat of the blow, or on the opposite side of the skull (' contre coup '), and may vary from a small tear to an extensive laceration of the cortex. These lacerations are most frequent about the convexity of the hemispheres, but they are also met with at the base, when the brain has been violently jarred against the bony prominences on the floor of the cranial cavity. The symptoms peculiar to severe lacerations of the brain are chiefly those of cerebral irritation. Tlie patient, after recovering from the primary shock or concussion, exliibits abnormal irritability of temper, muscular twitchings, irregular movements, and extreme restlessness ; the occurrence of these sj-mptoms soon after an accident should lead to the conclusion that the brain matter has been damaged. TREATMENT.—The treatment of this condition is the same as that just described for concussion, but especial care must be taken in the early stage to avoid excessive reaction and to diminish the risk of hemorrhage into the brain. For some time the patient should be kept quite free from all disturbing influences, and in a good many cases the irritable condition gradually passes off and the patient recovers completely. III. B B