459 FRACTURES OF THE NASAL BONES Of Complications.—The treatment of the various compHcations of these fractures presents few features of importance. The bleeding, even when severe, can usually be checked by affusion of cold water to the face, by syringing the nostrils with ice-cold water, or by the applica- tion of a small ice-bag to the side of the nose. When the bleeding is really alarming—as it may be if the nasal artery has been torn—it may be advisable to plug the nares. The plugs must be carefully introduced into the upper part of the nose and packed in place with a firm probe, taking care not to push in too large a mass at a time. They should be impregnated with adrenalin chloride (i in looo) ; and they also help to support the bridge of the nose. If emphysema is present, no special treatment is required beyond keeping the nostril on the affected side clear by repeated syringing with warm normal salt solution ; the patient should be cautioned Fig. 205.—Mason's Method of suppoRriNG the Bridge of the Nose after Fracture. The lateral pressure of the pieces of cork help to keep the nasal bones inclined at the proper angle to one another. If the cork becomes loose a figure-of-eight silk suture will keep them from slipping. not to blow the nose. The emphysema will subside readily and give no further trouble. The treatment of epiphora will be mainly directed to careful re-position of the fragments, the nasal duct being kept open by the regular introduction of suitable probes. If there is any cerebral injury, the case must be treated on the lines laid down for fracture of the base of the skull (see p. 352), the fracture of the nasal bones being of secondary importance ; nevertheless, care should be taken to remedy the deformity. Compound fracture in this situation is not usually accompanied by serious symptoms. Healing takes place readily, septic infection seldom gains a foothold and necrosis of the fragments very rarely occurs. When the fracture is compound through the skin, the wound should be purified in the ordinary manner, special care being taken to prevent the strong lotions from getting into the eyes. The edges of the wound should be brought together as accurately as possible with tine horse-hair sutures. Should the -wound become septic, large boric fomentations should