AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 34 in order to improve the chance of obtaining free movement subsequently. The details of this method are given fully in connection with Anchylosis (see p. 153). RECURRING DISLOCATION OF THE SHOULDER-JOINT. Cases are not infrequently met with in which a dislocation of the shoulder-joint frequently recurs on very slight injury, sometimes only on raising the arm. On examining radiograms of the joint in these cases, it is generally found that the head of the humerus is not normal, but is narrow and misshapen. As there is no sign of disease about it, it is probably a congenital condition; and, while the head remains in position so long as the capsule is intact, it tends to slip out of place on very slight provocation when the capsule has been stretched and weakened by the primary dislocation. The result may be very serious disability. In considering the treatment it is obvious that no advantage will be gained by interfering with the head of the humerus, and that the only thing to do is to repair the weak part of the capsule, or, if there is no specially weak spot, to tighten up the lax capsule. We have performed the following operation for diminishing the size of the capsule in several cases with considerable benefit. An incision is made from just below the coracoid process downwards and slightly outwards for about four inches between the deltoid and pectorahs major muscles (see Fig. 15). The deltoid is pulled outwards and the coraco-brachialis and biceps are then seen and also pulled outwards. The tendon of the pectoralis major now comes into view, running to its insertion into the humerus, and when the clavicular attach- ment of the muscle is pulled inwards while the deltoid and other muscles are pulled outwards, a space is seen above the upper border of the tendon of the pectorahs major, at the bottom of which are the head of the bone and the capsule. If the upper border of the tendon of the pectoralis be well pulled down and the arm moderately abducted, the lower part of the capsule, which is the part to which access is desired, may be brought into view. Generally, however, it is necessary to divide the upper part of the attachment of the pectoralis to the humerus before good access is obtained. After the lower part of the capsule has been exposed, some fibres of the sub-scapularis will be seen attached to it, and must be peeled off by a blunt dissector, so as to leave the capsule cleanly exposed. A somewhat curved incision (see Fig. 19, A), with the convexity upwards, is now made in the lower part of the capsule, extending from the glenoid cavity to the neck of the humei-us, and the joint is freely opened. The lower margin of this cut is seized in forceps and pulled forwards and upwards over the anterior part of the capsule till the cavity of the joint has been sufficiently narrowed. From the edge of the upper portion of the capsule catgut stitches are passed through the overlapping portion