AFFECTIONS OF THE SKULL 356 or it may pass towards the base of the brain, divide some important artery, or perforate some vital centre and cause instant death. At long ranges the injuries produced may be more severe than those at medium ranges. This is due to the fact that the bullet has turned in its flight and struck the skull sideways instead of with its point, thus becoming, to all intents, a larger projectile. Furthermore, the regular spin, which the rifling of the barrel imparts, is converted into an irregular wobbling movement around a point just behind the shoulder of the bullet. This tends to cause more irregular wounds than the steadily rotating bullet. Treatment.—In the early days of military surgery every head case was trephined, in an apparently haphazard manner; thus Philip, Count of Nassau, is said to have survived twenty-seven trephinings. This indiscriminate use of the trephine led to a reaction and, at a later period, bullet wounds were usually left alone. It must be remembered, however, that aU bullet wounds of the skull are depressed fractures and should be treated as such. Actual trephining is not always necessary, but after the disinfection of the superficial wounds the openings in the skuU must be enlarged and any loose or depressed fragments of bone removed. Superficial vessels are ligatured, and a way of escape made for any deeper extravasations; no attempt should be made to disinfect the channel through the brain, which will probably be a'septic, unless some foreign material has been carried in. When the injury does not affect a vital part of the brain or an important vessel, these cases may do well, although in military surgery they are specially exposed to septic complications. PENETRATING FRACTURES.—As in many cases met with in civil practice, the injuries may be comparatively trivial, the bullet passing through the skuU and lodging just within it, or they may be amongst the most serious types of gunshot wounds, with extensive fracture of the skuU and laceration of the brain. Treatment.—The fracture itself must be dealt with on the lines mentioned above for perforating fractures. WhUe it cannot be doubted that removal of the bullet is desirable, a prolonged search for it may cause a severe injury to the brain. If it presents in the wound or at the opposite side of the skull, it should be removed; if it cannot be readily discovered, the surgeon should merely remove any depressed fragments of bone and disinfect the wound. Later on, when the wound has healed, an accurate localisation of the bullet may be made by radiograms, and from its position and the symptoms to which it gives rise, the question of its removal must be considered. In many cases it will be found lodged among the muscles of the neck, where it may be safely left, unless it is causing pain; or it may be Ij^ng immediately beneath the skuU at a point exactly oj^posite the wound of entry, and can be removed without difficulty. If,