DISEASES OF THE KNEE-JOINT 201 one below the knee. If flexion is present, these straps are employed to overcome it. If there is a tendency to knock-knee, the thigh is pulled outwards by a band attached to the outer rod, while the inner rod is bent inwards so as not to press on the internal condyle. The knee should be kept slightly flexed with a pad behind it, partly because, if it becomes stiff, this position is more useful than when it is absolutely straight, and partly also because the posterior ligament is apt to stretch and the knee becomes over-extended if the pad is not employed. A point of some importance at this stage is whether the patient should be allowed to get about on crutches, wearing the splint, or whether he should be merely wheeled about in the recumbent position until the disease has advanced farther towards recovery; in our opinion the latter course is preferable. The dependent position interferes with tlie return circulation in the limb and with its nutrition. As the condition of the joint improves, however, crutches and a thick sole on the sound side may be provided and the patient allowed to walk about. When this stage is reached, Hessing's splint is a much more comfortable and satisfactory arrangement, but it is unfortunately much more expensive and, there- fore, only within reach of the well-to-do. The question of operative treatment in the hrst stage of the disease will very seldom arise, except in a few instances in which there is great pain and the disease is steadily progressing in spite of careful treatment. The various operations are fully discussed under the treatment of the third stage (p. 203). Treatment of the second stage.—Here the affection is no longer conhned to the synovial memljrane, but is attacking the carti- lages and the bone, and the main symptoms are those produced by the osteitis of the ends of the bones. Its characteristic features are great increase in the pain, and fixation of the joint from muscular con- traction. There is also intense pain on the slightest movement, and starting pains at night. This stage of the disease may come on gradually from extension of the disease of the synovial membrane, or suddenly from rupture of an osseous deposit into the joint. The treatment in this stage may be either expectant or operative ; the former does not, however, offer the same prospects of success as in the preceding stage. Nevertheless, in children especially, it is advisable to make a trial of it so long as the condition improves, or at any rate does not become worse. Expectant Treatment.—As a rule, extension is required to overcome the pressure of the bony surfaces against each other and to control the starting pains at night. The weight employed will depend upon the strength of the muscles and can be gauged by the amount of relief obtained. In children, three or four pounds may be used to begin with, and may be increased if necessary ; in adults from six to eight pounds are