549 WOUNDS OF THE PAROTID GLAND if the bleeding point can be caught in a pair of forceps, the latter should be left on for twenty-four hours, and this will ensure the occlusion of the vessel. If the bleeding is venous, it is only necessary to introduce a gauze plug down to the bleeding point. When the terminal portion of the external carotid artery itself has been divided, the condition is very serious, because the vessel is deeply- seated, difficult to expose, and almost impossible to ligature without damage to the facial nerve. Hence, in very severe arterial bleeding from a wound of the parotid, it is best to compress the bleeding point with the finger and then expose the external carotid artery at its origin (see Vol. II. p. 204). A ligature is passed aroimd it, but not tied. The artery may then be constricted by pulling upon the ligature, so that the wound can be sponged free from blood, and another effort made to catch the divided end. If the vessel is only partially divided, it must be cut across completely. If the bleeding cannot be controlled in this manner, a vertical incision must be made close in front of the auricle extending upwards and dividing the skin and fascia ; the capsule of the parotid gland is then opened and the gland pulled forward, so as to expose its deeper surface and the vessels in that situation. The bleeding point can then be got at, and dealt with. When, however, the surgeon does not wish to perform this operation, the ligature round the external carotid should be tied and the wound in the parotid plugged for a cou])le of days, so as to prevent bleeding from the upper end. The plug may then be withdrawn and the wound sutured ; if, however, there is much contusion, it is best to leave the wound open. This method of arresting the haemorrhage is not a good one, however, as secondary haemorrhage is very apt to occur when the sloughs separate. Of Division of the Facial Nerve.—When the facial nerve has been divided after it has broken up into its terminal branches, there is little hope of getting satisfactory union. If, on the other hand, the injury occurs behind this point, a careful search should be made for the cut ends, and they should be united with fine catgut (see Vol. II. p. 116). The chances of success, however, ai'e not good, because it is not easy to identify the distal end or to bring the two ends together if they are found. To do this, it is better to expose the main trunk of the nerve by the ordinary operation than to try to find it by enlarging the wound. Exposure of the Facial Nerve.—An incision is carried along the anterior margin of the mastoid process down to its tip and thence forwards to the angle of the jaw. The auricle and the parotid gland are puUed forwards, and the nerve is found as it leaves the stylo-mastoid foramen above the digastric muscle ; when it has been exposed it can be traced forwards to the point of injury, and an attempt made to unite the divided portions (see Vol. II. p. 116). In some cases, the question of anastomosing the distal end of the