AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE 520 3. Of Unilateral Hare-lip with a cleft of the alveolus.—Here the deformity is usually greater, and the additional points requiring attention are the projection forwards of the edge of the alveolus on the mesial side of the cleft and the undue breadth of the nostril. The projection forwards of the margin of the alveolus, if only slight, gradually disappears as the result of the pressure of the repaired lip, but when it is marked, the operation cannot be performed satisfactorily until this projection has been diminished to some extent. In these cases the alveolus must be forced into position after the lip has been detached from the bone as in the preceding operations. This is best done by seizing the projecting bone above the roots of the teeth with a pair of strong forceps whose blades are covered with india-rubber tubing and forcibly bending it back into position ; it is generally necessary to fracture the alveolus in order to prevent it springing forward again when the forceps are removed. When the projection is very marked, it may also be advisable to pass a silver wire through the alveolus on each side in order to keep the prominent portion back ; before this is done, the opposed surfaces of the alveolar cleft should be pared. The second point which requires attention is the broadening of the nostril. The lip on the shorter side of the cleft is usually deficient, not merely in breadth but in length, and, if the ala of the nose is simply detached as in the preceding operations, the nostril will be completely closed when the two sides of the cleft are brought into apposition. Under these circumstances, it is well to carry an incision upwards around the ala before detaching it, so as to separate it from the upper lip in the manner described for repair of the upper lip (see p. 494), and then to remove a small crescentic portion of the cheek, so that when the edges of the cleft are brought together, the ala is not carried inwards to the same extent (see Fig. 225). In this way the lip can be repaired effectually without narrowing the nostril unduly. This procedure is even more important in cases of double than of single hare-lip. In other respects the operation is carried out on the lines described above. 4. Of Double Hare-lip.—Double hare-lip is usually complete, but if it is not, the incisions for its repair must be carried up into the nostril. The first point for consideration is what shall be done with the pre- maxiha and the prolabium over it. The prolabium must be detached from the bone, but the latter should never be removed if it is possible to save it; if it be taken away, a gap is left, into which the central unsup- ported portion of the lip faUs, and a most unsightly appearance results. In some cases the bone can be readily forced back into position by firm pressure with the thumb after the prolabium has been detached ; in other cases it is so intimately connected with the septum that it cannot be forced back until the latter has been divided. This may be done in the following manner: An incision is made in the mouth along the free margin of the septum ; the mucous membrane and periosteum are