63 DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP acetabulum. The wound is sewn up without a drainage-tube, and the limb fixed upon a long Liston splint ; if there is much shortening of the muscles, weight extension of seven pounds or more may be employed for the first three weeks, after which time the splint and extension may be discontinued, and massage and passive move- ments carried out. After six weeks the patient may get about with a crutch or stick, but he must not bear much weight upon the limb, and must not abduct or flex it to any great degree for at least another six weeks. When, however, division of the resisting structures does not allow the head of the bone to come into position, better access to the deep parts may be obtained by enlarging the wound and sawing off the great trochanter obliquely and turning it aside along with the attached muscles. One can then get much better access to the head and acetabulum and can more easily replace the head of the bone in the acetabulum. After reduction has been effected, the trochanter is fixed to the femur by plates, the muscles attached to it being partially divided if they are much shortened. When replacement of the head of the hone is not possible the following procedures may be considered :ѥ In bad cases with much pain from pressure on the sciatic nerve, excision of the head of the bone has been suggested. The functional result, however, is bad and excision should be avoided if possible. If the pressure can be taken off the nerve, the best thing to do is to form a new acetabulum upon the iliac bone, in the position that the head of the bone occupies. To do this, a posterior incision is made and a portion of the pelvis is gouged away opposite the head of the bone, until a shallow bed is formed in which the head can lie. Instead of removing the portions of bone so raised, it is well to leave them attached at the upper end and then bend them up at right angles to the pelvis, so that they form a sort of buttress preventing the head of the bone being pulled farther up. In the course of a few weeks considerable callus is thrown out around the detached portions of bone, and thus an important obstacle to the further displacement of the head upwards is obtained. It is well to turn in a portion of fascia over the raw surface so as to prevent bony union (see p. 153). The after-treatment consists mainly in the employment of extension for some weeks with the limb in the abducted position, so as to prevent the head of the bone being thrust up forcibly against the buttress, until the latter , has undergone solidification. Passive movement should be carried out from the first. When the unreduced dislocation of the femur is accompanied by fracture of the acetabuhim, the condition is more difficult to treat. There can be no possibility of restoring the limb to its normal condition, but if the head of the femur slides up and down on the side of the pelvis an attempt