528 AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE gently between the flap and the bone, and the separation made by gentle lateral movements, so that there is no stretching of the parts and no danger of innning the point of the instrument through the flap. When the cleft is reached, the point of the raspatory is brought out between the bone and the soft parts. Special care must be taken at the anterior ends. When both sides have been detached, it is easy to ascertain whether the flaps have been freed sufficiently by introducing a detacher beneath each flap and drawing them together. Their edges ought to come together without any tension. The next step is to divide the aponeurosis attaching the soft palate to the hard, in order to allow the flaps to come together posteriorly. The mucous membrane extending from the upper surface of the soft palate into the nasal cavities must also be divided so that the soft palate can hang down freely into the mouth. This is done with a probe-pointed knife (see Fig. 251, B) or a pair of special curved scissors (see Fig. 254), one blade being inserted between the muco-periosteum and the under Fig. 254.—Curved Scissors for dividing the attachment of the Soft to the Hard Palate in Staphyloraphy. surface of the bone, while the other is placed in the naso-pharynx above the upper surface of the soft palate (see Fig. 255). If, however, the cleft should be complete—i.e. if it extends through the alveolus—the incision does not go as far forward as the end of the cleft, otherwise the blood-supply to the front end of the flap from the anterior palatine artery would be cut off. This leaves a small triangular gap in front when the flaps are approximated, and this is closed at a second operation, after the rest of the palate has united, by prolonging the incisions forward through the free margin of the cleft anteriorly and turning in the little flaps thus formed. Suturing the flaps.—After the haemorrhage has been arrested, the throat sponged, and the patient brought fully under the anaesthetic again, the third stage—that of passing the sutures—is reached. For uniting the hard and the greater part of the soft palate we prefer silk- worm-gut. Many surgeons employ silver wire, but the gut seems to be less irritating to the dorsum of the tongue, and is also somewhat easier to tie. The sutures uniting the chvided halves of the uvula may be of fine horse-hair. The best way of passing the sutures is that known