249 DISEASES OF THE ELBOW-JOINT used and the result will be as good by leaving the case to nature as by forcible passive movement. The only form of passive movement that is really desirable is rotation of the hand, and this may be practised diligently both actively and passively from the first. Excision of the Elbow.—Various incisions have been recommended ; the older operations through a vertical or an H-shaped incision have the drawback that it is difficult to remove the synovial membrane properly. After trying various methods, the conclusion we have come to is that the best incisions for excision are those just recommended for arthrectomy; in fact we are of opinion that in excision the synovial membrane should be removed in the same manner as in arthrectomy, the operation being carried out in the two cases in an identical fashion up to the point of pro- truding the ends of the bones {vide supra). When the ends of the bones are pro- truded, the periosteum over the back of the olecranon should be peeled off with a raspatory, leaving the triceps still attached to it ; the olecranon process and the articu- lar surface of the ulna are then removed with a saw applied just below the level of the coronoid process. The head of the radius is next nipped off with bone-forceps, at the same level, after which the humerus is protruded through the wound and sawn off just above the condyles. This leaves part of the olecranon fossa behind, and this should be thoroughly scooped out so as to remove all the cartilage ; the bones are then replaced and the incision stitched ' . , BONF'; ARE DIVIDED IN EXCISION OF up. The hmb is fixed upon an mternal the elbow. angular splint with a joint at the angle and a rotatory hand-support. If no sinuses were present before operation, drainage is unnecessary ; if there were any, they should be disinfected and removed, the wound swabbed out with undiluted carbolic acid and drainage tubes inserted. If a drainage tube is employed, it should be retained until it is certain that no suppuration will occur, that is to say for about three or four days. After-treatment.—Pronation and supination should be carried out every day from the first. At the end of a fortnight the stitches may be taken out and gentle flexion and extension practised daily. Unless a large amount of bone has been removed—in which case there may be much looseness of the joint—the splint may be left off after four weeks, the arm carried in a sling, and passive movement still more vigorously