AFFECTIONS OF THE SKULL 362 SYPHILIS. In the secondary stage, periosteal nodes are not uncommon and are chiefly found over the frontal bone, usually affecting the external surface only. Syphilitic periostitis may also be met with in the interior of the skull, most frequently about the foramina through which the various cranial nerves pass out; the resulting new material may cause pressure on the nerves and consequent paralysis. In the tertiary stage, the skull is one of the favourite seats of syphilitic bone disease, and it may occur either in the form of a chronic osteitis or of gummatous disease, the latter frequently resulting in necrosis. In most cases, indeed, the two processes are combined, the original trouble being the formation of a gumma in the periosteum or the diploe, followed by osteitis round about. The necrosis is essentially a septic process, and is only found when the gummata have ulcerated and secondary infection has taken place. Gummatous disease of the bones most often affects the frontal bone, and the condition used to be spoken of as ' corona veneris.' The whole thickness of the bone or only the external surface may be affected, and the gummata are usually multiple. The gummatous infiltration soon spreads to the soft tissues, which ultimately give way, forming characteristic tertiary syphilitic ulcers with dead bone at the bottom. Gummatous disease of the skull may be very serious on account of the risk of various complications, such as erysipelas, sinus thrombosis, or septic meningitis. TREATMENT.—The treatment in the secondary stage is practically the same as that for secondary bone lesions elsewhere (see Vol. I. Chap. XL). In the tertiary stage, the treatment will be that appropriate for tertiary bone lesions elsewhere (see Vol. II. Chap. XXV.), but the septic factor must always receive careful consideration. Should the gumma be on the point of breaking down, the hair over it should be shaved, the skin carefully disinfected and an antiseptic dressing applied. If ulceration occurs, the wound should be dressed with fuU antiseptic precautions until it is soundly healed. When the case does not come under treatment until definite necrosis is present, the question of operative treatment arises, as the necrosed fragment may remain adherent to the living bone for a very long time. It may therefore become advisable to remove the necrosed fragment with portions of the thickened bone in the vicinity, so as to leave a wound which will heal more readily under antisyphilitic remedies. Sequestrotomy.—The removal of the sequestrum may be effected as follows: The scalp should be thoroughly purified in the usual manner, and it is weU to scrape the ulcer and pare away its margins ; after the