AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD 444 may be present in such large excess that the fluid is practically diluted pus, and it may be so thick as not to flow through a narrow needle. The fluid is usually under excessive pressure, and coagulates after withdrawal. When turbid fluid is withdrawn, cultures should be made, because some cases do well on vaccine treatment, but as far as the identity of the micro-organisms is concerned (for an account of these a work on Bacteriology should be consulted) this is usually easily settled by the examination of stained films. Injuries.—A fracture of the skull or spine, with tearing of the dura mater, will give rise to the appearance of blood in the fluid, and, as stated above, this does not usually clot. The same effect will be produced by a laceration of the brain, but, apparently, not by a simple concussion, though on this point not much information is available. A fracture of the skull or spine not involving the dura mater will not be followed by the appearance of blood in the cerebro-spinal fluid unless, of course, the brain or cord are injured. Cerebral Haemorrhage, even if deep in the brain, is apparently almost always followed by some amount of staining of the fluid. If recovery occurs in any condition in which blood is present in the cerebro- spinal fluid, a characteristic series of changes may take place as it clears up. The corpuscles become less and less numerous, and, as they do so, large cells (apparently endothelial) make their appearance and ingest them in great numbers ; coincidently with this, the fluid assumes a yellow coloration. In a week or less the corpuscles have all disappeared, and the fluid has a straw or amber colour ; this gradually gets less and less marked, and disappears in another week. The length of the process depends, to some extent, on the amount of blood exuded. Cerebral Tumour.—There is generalh' a marked rise of pressure in the cerebro-spinal fluid, especially if the tumour be a rapidly growing one. The fluid is usually normal, but if the tumour be superficial and cause irritation or local aseptic meningitis, a few leucocytes, either lymphocytes or polynuclears, or the two mixed in varying proportions, may be present. Cerebral Abscess.—This is associated with a rise of pressure, slight or great, according to the size of the abscess and the rapidity with which it has formed. When the abscess is deep-seated the fluid is quite normal; but when it is near the surface a few leucocytes (usually both kinds of lymphocytes) are present, but the number never approaches that seen in meningitis. The fluid rarely clots, and there is no increase of albumen. Organisms are rarely present, except when the abscess is quite close to the surface. Uraemia.—In this condition the cerebro-spinal fluid is usually secreted under increased pressure, and the lumbar puncture may be followed by great relief to the symptoms. The fluid is perfectly clear, contains no cells, or only a few, and may coagulate feebly. The amount of salts in