206 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS the crucial ligaments have been divided, as will generally be the case, they should be united by one or two catgut stitches ; the lateral hgaments should be similarly treated. A hole is drilled in each half of the patella, through which a silver wire is passed to unite the two fragments ; this is exactly similar to the operation for fracture of the patella (see Vol. II. p. 399). The wound is now sewn up without any drainage, antiseptic dressings are applied, and the limb is placed upon a suitable splint. If possible, the operation should be carried out without using a tourniquet. It is much easier to distinguish the exact limits of the tuberculous tissue when the surface bleeds freely, and there is probably more blood lost when a tourniquet is used than when the operation is done without it, owing to the free bleeding which follows its removal. When no tourniquet is employed there is no vascular paralysis, and, while the vessels bleed freely when divided, they can be clamped and tied at once, and therefore the surface is practically dry by the time the operation is finished. Moreover, the pulsation of the popliteal artery is a valuable guide when separating the pos- terior part of the capsule. The best splint for these cases is a trough of Gooch's splinting cut out below to re- ceive the heel, bevelled away above to follow the gluteal fold (see Fig. 80), and covered with a folded sheet over which is a large piece of mackintosh. Upon the mackintosh is placed a thick sheet of salicylic wool, whilst superficial to this, opposite the region that the knee will occupy, is laid a series of broad strips of sterilised cyanide gauze overlapping each other weU ■—much as in a many-tailed bandage—so that, when the limb is laid flat upon the splint, these strips can be folded up one after the other around the knee. The leg is slightly raised upon a pillow. After-ireatment.—As a rule there is no need to disturb the limb for dressing. It may be left in the splint for six weeks, when the stitches are Fig. 80.—Splint arranged for Dressing an Arthrectomy of the Knee. The layers of mackintosh, wool, and gauze are shown in position.