302 AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE when hot water is employed. The plaster bandages should be put on rather obliquely so as to avoid constriction ; they should not be reversed. Where necessary an additional quantity of plaster may be rubbed in at the points of greatest strain. The moulding is done when the plaster is beginning to set, and special care must be taken to mould the jacket to the crests of the iliac bones. The places at which windows are to be cut are then marked out (see Fig. 124). The object of these windows is to allow free respiration, to permit abdominal movements, and to afford the opportunity of inspec- ting the diseased region of the spine; they [should be cut within two Fig. 122.—Gauvain's Wheelbarrow Splint for Spinal Caries associated WITH Psoas Abscess or Psoas Spasm. This splint hyper-extends and immobilises the spine and simultaneously stretches and fixes the psoas muscles. Spasm of the psoas muscles can always be overcome by this method of fixation, and psoas abscesses may disappear without further interference. The patient is kept always on the splint during this stage of treatment and may be bathed easily without being moved. The back is washed and powdered through the back-door every six hours. The legs are abducted when the bed-pan is in use ; they are permanently hyper-extended. The night-shirt is worn split down the back to facilitate access. (From a photograph by Mr. Gauvain.) or three days after the appUcation of the casing. Plaster jackets made in this way will last from three to si.K months, but when the child is growing they must be changed oftener. Phelps's box.—This is a wooden tray made to fit the body of the patient, with two narrow troughs diverging from each other below to receive the lower extremities (see Fig. 125). The box should be some- what broader than the patient, so as to allow for the insertion of lateral pads, while he lies upon a mattress so arranged as to prevent undue pressure upon the curve. The floor of the tray is cut away opposite the buttocks so as to permit of defsecation without taking the child out of the splint ; a well-padded circle of wood may be fixed into this opening