AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS i88 frequently follows injury in old people, is merely a form of this disease. The affection in the hip is associated with much greater pain than in other joints, and this does not necessarily accompany movement, but may be very marked while the patient is lying in bed ; it is, however, generally increased by movement. There is usually considerable fixation of the joint, which is somewhat flexed, adducted and rotated inwards. The head of the femur undergoes softening and absorption, and the angle which the head and neck of the bone form with the shaft is considerably altered, so that it may be a right angle or even a somewhat acute one. This gives rise to shortening of the limb, which is not due to enlargement of the acetabulum or to dislocation, but to absorption and the altered position of the head and neck of the bone. The trochanter will therefore be often above Nelaton's line in advanced cases. There is a marked tendency to the formation of osteophytes around the hip, and the patient may suffer from severe pain in addition to that attributable to the trouble in the joint ; this pain may be due to pressure upon the sciatic nerve by these osteophytic outgrowths, or to adhesion of the nerve to the capsule. TREATMENT.—This is fully discussed on p. 143, and there is little further to be said. It may, however, be occasionally necessary to consider the question of operation, especially in cases in which the sciatic or obturator nerves are pressed upon by osteophytes, or have become adherent to the capsule of the joint. Under these circumstances it may be advisable to cut down and either free the nerve or remove the osteo- phytic growths which press upon it. The operations for exposing these nerves have already been described (see Vol. II. p. 142). The nerves, after being freed, should be stretched, and any osteophytic outgrowths defined and as far as possible removed. Great improvement frequently follows the operation. The surgeon may sometimes be tempted to excise the joint ; the pro- cedure, however, is not to be recommended. The operation is difficult on account of the distortion of the neck of the femur and the presence of osteophytes around it, and it is accompanied by considerable shock. Besides this, the functional result in adults and old people is ex- tremely unsatisfactory, while the limitation of movement and the pain are likely to recur owing to the formation of fresh osteophytes. If operation is desirable Murphy's procedure (p. 153) will be preferable to excision ; it would, however, be limited to young subjects and to cases in which the hip is the only joint affected. CHARCOT'S DISEASE. The hip is frequently the seat of Charcot's disease, and in this situation atrophic changes only are found as a rule. There is rapid atrophy of the head and neck of the bone, with destruction of the joint, and early dislocation.