531 CLEFT PALATE Fig. 257.—Passing the Sutures in Staphyloraphv. a, shows the loop of silk being passed on one side and the single silkworm-gut suture on the opposite side. Both needles are withdrawn leaving the threads in silu. Then the silkworm-gut thread is looped into the silk loop (c), which is pulled upon and withdrawn, leaving the single silkworm-gut suture in place (d). tension of the soft palate. It is sometimes recommended that this should not be done unless the tension is marked, as ascertained by the pressure of the finger on the soft palate after it has been closed. It is always well to carry it out, however, as the object is rather to prevent tension from the subsequent pull of the palatal muscles than to relieve any actual tension due to the operation. It is best done by introducing a probe-pointed knife into the posterior ex- tremity of each lateral incision and prolonging it vertically backwards into the soft palate, the incision passing just in- ternal to the hamular process. It should extend through at least half the depth of the palate on each side (see Fig. 259). This incision is sometimes followed l^y sharp hfemorrhage from the posterior palatine artery or its Inanches; the bleeding can generally be arrested by sponge pres- sure or by complete division of the artery with the knife. Should it be serious, a sponge may l)e dipped in adrenalin chloride solution (i in 1000) and pressed lirmly over the bleeding point. Only in very in- tractable cases will it be necessary to plug the pos- terior palatine foramen with Horsley's wax. When the bleeding has ceased, the child is put to bed with the head low and turned to one side, so that blood may escape easily by the mouth. After-treatment.—There may be considerable shock, be at hand. No food should is at an end, and then only M M 2 Fig. 258.—The Double-loop Method of passing the Sutures in Staphyloraphv. a, shows the two silk loops being introduced; b, shows one loop passed through the other, which is then withdrawn, leaving the single loop (c) in posi- tion through both flaps. Into this is hooked a silkworm-gut suture, which is drawn into place by traction upon tlie single loop (rf). and plenty of hot-water bottles should be given until all danger of vomiting