AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD 334 EMPHYSEMA OF THE SCALP. Emphysema of the scalp is usually associated with fractures of the nasal or ethmoid bones, or of the anterior wall of the frontal sinus. The air is driven into the cellular tissue when the patient blows his nose, and considerable emphysema may result. TREATMENT.—As a rule no treatment is required for this condition, but, should the distension be great, the skin may be punctured in order to allow the air to escape. PNEUMATOCELE. Of much greater importance, although of greater rarity, is the condition known as pneumatocele, in which there is a cavity beneath the scalp distended with air and communicating with aii"-ceUs in the bone beneath. These tumours have been met with most frequently in the region of the mastoid process, but also about the frontal sinus. They arise in connection with defects in the bone, such as sometimes occur in the mastoid region, by which the air-cells open on the surface of the bone. As a result, air is forced from the middle ear through this opening b}' sneezing, etc., and in the course of time a tumour may be developed. These bony defects may be congenital or acquired; if congenital, they are generally the result of incomplete closure of the squamo-mastoid suture. The tumours rarely give rise to any special symptoms. TREATMENT.—^Punctures and incisions have been employed ; apparently good results have followed -puncture and the subsequent in- jection of iodine. Unless, however, the tumour is of such a size as to cause deformity it is best not to interfere with it. TUMOURS OF THE SCALP. SEBACEOUS CYSTS. The most common tumour of the scalp is the atheromatous or seba- ceous cyst, popularl}^ called a wen. These cysts are usually multiple, and some of them may reach a considerable size. They are generally thick- walled and, imless inflammation has occurred from irritation of the skin, the wall of the cyst is usually easily separable from the surrounding parts. Suppuration occasionally occurs around these cysts, and they may be the starting-point of an epithelioma. TREATMENT.—The treatment of these cysts is excision, and, since they tend to increase in size, it is best to remove them while they are still small, an operation which can be readily performed under local anccsthesia. As a rule it is not necessary to shave the skin