185 DISEASES OF THE HIP-JOINT wound stitched up entirely without an}' drainage. The limb is brought into a position of moderate abduction. The tendons (A the adductors, if necessary, may be divided by a tenotomy knife close to their origin from the pubes. When, after making the anterior incision and removing the head of the bone and the anterior portion of the capsule, the surgeon finds that the patient's condition is such as to contra-indicate a prolonged opera- tion, he must confine himself to removing as much of the posterior part of the capsule as possible through the anterior wound by means of scissors and a sharp flushing curette. This, however, is a far inferior method to tlie one described, and should only be adopted when circum- stances forbid the employment of the other. Afier-ireainient.—When the patient is put back to bed, extension should be applied, a weight of about three or four pounds being used for a child. The limb is placed in the abducted position, and rotation prevented by means of the apparatus shown in Fig. 55. A Liston's long splint should also be applied to the sound side from the axilla to beyond the toes, so as to prevent the patient from sitting up. The mattress is divided into three parts, so that the central portion can be removed for nursing purposes without any disturbance of the limb. The extension and fixation of the limb should be kept up for about six weeks ; at the end of that time a Thomas's hip splint (see p. 168) may be employed. This should be bent well outwards opposite the joint so as to keep the limb in the abducted position; the splint should be provided with a pelvic band. In young children, who are difficult to keep quiet, either a double Thomas's splint (see p. 171) or a Phelps's box (see p. 172) will be better than the single Thomas's splint. The patient need not be kept in bed after six weeks or so ; he may be allowed to get about in a single Thomas's splint with crutches and a high boot on the sound foot or a Hessing's splint may be used. We very strongly advise that the patient should not be allowed to bear any weight on the limb for at least six or eight months after the operation. If this line of treatment is carried out, the consolidation of the structures in the neighbourhood of the joint will give a much firmer joint than is otherwise obtainable. It is very seldom that anything like bony anchylosis occurs, but if a movable joint is desired, this may be assured by performing passive movement of the hip through a limited range twice a week after the wound has healed. 2. By an external incision.—When the disease extends far out along the neck of the femur, and especially when there are several sinuses, a freer and better opening maybe obtained by an incision over the outer surface of the trochanter, commencing about two inches above its upper border and running vertically downwards for four or five inches (see Fig. 72). The knife should be carried through the glutei muscles directly down to the bone, and the trochanter itself is cut into. This structure is