DISEASES OF THE HIP-JOINT 165 due to acetabular disease, fullness can be detected by the finger in the rectum. In the fourth stage the disease is retrogressive or has got well, but has left some deformity. Recovery from the disease is indicated by total disappearance of thickening in the neighbourhood of the joint, with a complete absence of pain on movement, and of rigidity of the sur- rounding muscles. The position of the limb is generally that of the third stage, i.e. flexion, adduction, and inward rotation, but this may be much modified by previous treatment. DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS—In the early stages of the affection, mistakes in diagnosis are not very uncommon. Separation of the upper epiphysis of the femnr gives rise to signs which may easily be looked on as due to tuberculous hip-joint disease. Both conditions may follow an injury ; the pain, limitation of movement and limping on walking occur in both affections. An X-ray photograph should be obtained whenever possible, in order to determine if the epiphysis has been separated. Con- genital dislocation of the hip is another frequent source of en"or. In these cases, careful attention to the historv, the absence of pain on move- ment and the fact that the head of the femur may be felt in an abnormal position, should suggest the possibility of this condition being present. An X-ray photograph is also a valuable help in establishing the diag- nosis. Disease of the loiver lumbar vertebrcs or of the sacro-iliac joint may closely simulate hip disease. The situation of the pain, and the absence of pain on movement of the joint when the pelvis is fixed, and of any tenderness about the hip, will enable the diagnosis to be made in most cases. PROGNOSIS.—Although of considerable gravity, hip-joint disease often gets well if suitable treatment is carefully carried out for a sufficient length of time. It is imperative, however, that the treatment should be continued for a much longer time than is generally the case. A few weeks' or months' treatment is totally insufficient in the great majority of cases. Two, three, and sometimes even six or seven years, are necessary to ensure complete recovery. When the case is seen quite early and treatment is begun at once, recovery without shortening and with a considerable amount of mobility of the joint may ensue, but it must be borne in mind that movement is more likely to be obtained if the joint is kept rigidly fixed during the treatment. Recovery is by no means hopeless, even when the case is complicated by abscess, a very considerable proportion recovering with satisfactory joints if careful aseptic treatment be adopted. In fact, when it is possible to keep the case aseptic from first to last, the only way in which the disease threatens life is from the occurrence of tubercle elsewhere, especially in the lungs or the meninges of the brain. TREATMENT.—This is partly general and partly local. The general treatment of tuberculous joint disease has already been referred