176 AFFFXTIO>^S OF JOINTS a standstill, otherwise muscular contraction may recur and the deformity- be reproduced. A great advantage of the double Thomas's splint is that the patient can be moved out of doors and can get the benefit of the fresh air. Until the disease has become entirely quiescent, however, it is not advisable to allow him to get about on crutches. When this stage is reached a single Thomas's or a Hessing's splint should be employed. Sometimes the contraction of the adductors may be so marked that it is advisable in the first instance to perform tenotomy of the adductors close to their origin from the pubes. It is, however, very important that no violence should be used after the tenotomy in order to restore the limb to its proper position, otherwise aggravation of the disease is almost certain to occur. Gentle steady traction will bring the limb out to a considerable extent, and then further abduction may be obtained in a short time by suitable arrange- ment of the extension apparatus. The question of operation often comes up for decision in the second stage of hip disease, the particular form being excision of the hip, with as complete removal of the diseased structures around as possible ; ar- threctomy of the hip-joint is un- satisfactory, as thorough removal of the disease by this operation is almost impossible. Formerly sur- geons were in favour of operation at this stage, and they claimed that, by an early and complete removal of the disease before suppuration short and the danger of subsequent Of late years, however, whether it is Fig. 67.—Hoefficke's Exte.vsiok Splint for Hip-joint Disease. has occurred, the trouble is cut constitutional infection is avoided, that the bacilli are becoming less virulent or that improved hygienic con- ditions are increasing the resisting power of the patients, it has been found that a large proportion of cases recover under expectant treatment and with a better limb than is obtained by excision. The functional result after excision is not at all good, because in walking the limb moves up and down over the side of the pelvis and there is a great want of stability, the gait closely resembling that of congenital dislocation. On the other