AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS l82 When the deformity is very great, and when it is evidently impos- sible to remedy it by the above methods, and particularly when the disease is still active, excision of the joint will probably provide a better result. When, however, the disease has been quiescent for some years, Murphy's arthroplasty may advantageously take the place of any of the three procedures to which we have been referring (see P- 153)- At this stage of the disease cases are sometimes met with in which both hip-joints have been affected, and the adduction has caused the legs to cross one another, and to produce the so-called ' scissor-leg deformity.' This is a most distressing condition, and something must be done to remedy it. The best treatment in recent cases is to excise the joint on one side so as to get a movable joint, and thus to enable the patient to sit down, whilst on the other side a wedge should be removed or a sub-trochanteric osteotomy performed. It will be advisable not to operate on both sides at the same time. If both hip-joints are excised, the patient is in a condition similar to that of congenital dislocation of both hips, and will probably have most serious locomotive troubles, whereas if one leg be firm and in good position and the joint on the other side be excised, the ultimate result will probably be very satisfactory. In cases of longer standing, Murphy's arthroplasty may take the place of excision. Excision of the Hip-joint.—The indications for excision of the hip in cases of tuberculous disease have already been given (p. 177). In all cases, removal of the bone must be combined with free removal of the diseased synovial membrane. The operation may be performed in various ways, of which we shall describe three : by an anterior, an external, or a posterior incision. Each of these has its own special merits and may be adopted under different circumstances. I. By an anterior incision.—The anterior incision is the one in common use, and is the most satisfactory method for children. It is especially adapted for cases of medium severity in which the disease does not extend far out along the neck of the femur. The incision commences just below the anterior superior iliac spine, and runs downwards and slightly inwards for about four inches, so as to open up the interval between the tensor fasciae femoris externally and the sartorius internally (see Fig. 69). After the skin and deep fascia have been divided, the septum between the tensor and the sartorius comes into view, and these muscles are separated and pulled well apart by large retractors ; the cellular tissue lying between the deeper muscles is then divided, in doing which a fairly large branch of the external circumflex artery is usually cut across. As the incision is deepened, the capsule of the joint is reached and opened. The neck of the bone is then divided in the line of the external wound with a fine saw (see Fig. 70), and the head of the bone seized with lion forceps; it can usually be removed without any