208 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS permitting movement in tlie joint may be used after about six weeks, but it must be kept on for a very long time. The results of complete arthrectomy in pure synovial disease are extremely satisfactory. The disease is cut short and the patient is quickly restored to health ; the only trouble is the tendency to flexion referred to above. In adults, however, when a firm limb is desired excision is much more satisfactory than arthrectomy, because strong bony anchylosis is obtained. And in adults the question of the epiphyseal line which negatives excision in children does not arise. Excision.—During the operation it is well to avoid the use of a tourniquet for the reasons mentioned under arthrectomy. The best incision is one with its convexity downwards, commencing over the centre of the lateral aspect of the joint, running down to the lower part of the tubercle of the tibia, and then curving upwards to a corresponding point on the opposite side (see Fig. 82). The flap thus marked out is turned up, so as to expose the whole of the capsule of the joint. The first question that arises is whether the patella should be removed or not. In most cases it is well to take it away, and the only real objection to this is that the divided extensor may contract adhesions to the lower end of the femur rather than to the tibia, and there will not then be such good leverage as if the patella were left. This can easily be prevented by peeling off the periosteum from the anterior surface of the patella, and thus shelling the bone out of the quadriceps tendon instead of dividing the latter transversely above the bone. The best way to do this is to have the skin flap held well out of the way, and to make a vertical median incision through the quadriceps from the top of the supra-patellar pouch down to the tubercle of the tibia. This incision is very carefully deepened above the patella until the muscular fibres are cut through, when the handle of the knife can be sunk between the muscle, and the capsule and the two structures separated from one another. The periosteum over the patella is then turned off to either side with a raspatory, and the ligamentum patellae is split longitudinally. The muscle is now raised from the capsule of the joint on each side untU the whole of the supra-patellar pouch and its lateral prolonga- tions have been exposed. The steps of this procedure are identical with that for arthrectomy (see p. 204). The margin of the quadriceps tendon is defined below, and then the supra-patellar pouch and the whole of the anterior portion of the synovial membrane are removed, including Fig. 82. — Incision for Excision of the Knee. The lowest point of the in- cision should reach the lower part of the tubercle of the tibia.