543 CLEFT PALATE helping to make speech generally very indistinct. The tongue also, owing to the cleft, is unable to accomplish what is required of it in the production of the linguo-palatal consonants. When, however, the cleft has been repaired by operation early in life, the soft palate and the tongue can be trained to perform their functions in a manner very nearly approaching the normal. The orbicular muscle of the mouth, after operation for hare-lip, requires careful training so that the tension necessarily following the operation is relieved and the lips made mobile and elastic by means of exercises, and especially by use of the " oo " sound for which the lips are protruded as far as possible. One cannot over- emphasise the enormous importance of free lip-movement whenever the voice is used. ' The nature of the instruction given to the individual must vary somewhat in accordance with the time of life when the operation was performed. If the patient has been operated upon in early infancy or before speech has been established, one can expect more perfect involuntary natural movement in the levator muscles of the soft palate than would be the case if the operation had not been performed until speech had existed for a considerable period. In the latter case, instead of leaving the muscles to act involuntarily, one will generally have to teach the patient to contract the sterno-thyroid and the sterno-hyoid muscles continually during vocalisation and so cause a descent of the larynx and of the muscles forming the floor of the mouth, which move- ment will compensate for the inefficient working of the soft palate and will enable the air column to be directed more on to the lips, and so largely made to escape the nasal cavities. In all cases, whether the muscles are deliberately contracted or left to act involuntarily, a deeper pitch of voice will be found very helpful in acquiring the requisite apportionment of the air column. ' The first instruction should consist in teaching the patient to breathe properly and to produce, as perfectly as possible, the main vowel sounds: "00," " oh," " aw," "ah," "a," and " ee," each of which has its own shape at the lips, its tongue position, and its space between the teeth. When the word ' resonator ' is made use of in connection with one of the main vowel sounds, as when, for instance, the " EE " resonator is sj^oken of, one is referring to the whole conformation brought about by the setting of the lips, tongue, and jaw for that particular sound. The main vowel sounds and positions are made use of either alone, in combination, or subordinately whenever speech occurs. When these sounds have been learnt, the chief consonants—and especially those which one knows from experience are a source of considerable difficulty—should be put in front of the main vowels and practised assiduously mitil they are produced with clearness and ease. ' The most difficult consonants are G and K, whatever the nature of the cleft. If the cleft has been through both palates, one will find serious