DISEASES OF THE HIP-JOINT 179 either by strips of metal incorporated in the bandage or by strands of tow thoroughly impregnated with plaster. Above, it should extend as high as the ribs ; below, it should reach to the upper part of the calf, so as to fix the knee-joint as well as the hip, and it should be applied with the limb in a position of abduction. When the sinuses are so situated that it is difficult to apply the bandage without covering them in, metal bars bent outwards opposite the wound may be incorporated with the bandage on each side, so as to provide a firm splint, and at the same time to allow proper access to the wound. The methods of dealing with the septic tuberculous sinuses are fully considered on p. 128. When there is much suppuration, steps must be taken to secure efficient drainage. For this purpose it may be necessary to open up existing sinuses or to establish fresh openings, inserting large-sized drainage tubes down to the bottom of the wound or passing tubes through from one opening to the other ; packing with gauze should not be employed. When two sinuses have been made to communicate, and a tube has been passed through from one to the other, a long loop of silk should be fastened to one end of the tubes. When it is desired to wash the tube it can be pulled out and then readily re-introduced by traction on the string. After cleansing the tube it is well to dust it with iodoform before it is put back. These sinuses should not be syringed out with an antiseptic solution, which irritate the wound without disinfecting it. After about three weeks the tube may be cut in two and gradually shortened as the sinus closes. When the tubes are first introduced they should not be disturbed for about a week, otherwise there may be great difficulty in re-inserting them. At the end of a week each tube may then be withdrawn, cleaned, powdered with iodoform, and replaced. In all cases the tubes should be employed as long as possible, and, when it is found that the large tube will not go down to the bottom of the sinus, one of smaller calibre must be substituted for it. In any case it is well to substitute a fresh tube for the old one every few days, as granulation tissue grows through the holes in it and blocks its lumen ; in the fresh tube the holes will be in a different position, and this difficulty is thus easily avoided. When the amount of discharge is small, Bier's cups may be applied and citrate of potash administered, with the view of promoting the flow of serum containing antibodies. In some cases remarkable benefit follows the use of bismuth injections (see Vol. II.). Vaccines prepared from the organisms present in the sinus may be employed, and injections of tuberculin may be beneficial. In a certain number of cases the sinuses may heal and the disease may be cured ; but when tliere are a number of sinuses, and wlien sepsis is severe, the attempt as a rule fails and the question of excision of the joint will arise ; in most of these cases it should be done unless the patient's general condition prolubits it. In performing tlie operation, N 2