510 AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE fixed in its new position, to form a bridge in the manner described above or by the injection of solid paraffin. When the tip of the nose alone has been destroyed, the operation introduced by Syme (see Fig. 235) may be useful. The edges of the gap are pared, and a flap of appropriate shape is cut from each cheek and brought inwards so that the adjacent edges meet in the middle line and are sutured together ; the outer and lower edges of the flaps are united to the pared edges of the defect. This leaves a raw surface on either side of the nose, which can be covered with skin-grafts. When the cartilaginous portion is completely lost, the Indian method (see p. 511) may be employed ; it was introduced mainly for these cases. Partial losses of the ala or tip of the nose must be repaired by flaps from the cheek ; it is seldom necessary to take them from the A ■ B Fig. 236.—Syme's Operation for restoration of the soft parts of the Nose. /I. The gap is pared so as to be of a triangular form, and the flap is marked out on the cheek. B. The v-shaped edges of the flap are sutured together in the middle line, and the remainder of the flap is fastened to the raw surface. The surface from which the flap is raised is filled up partly by undermining, and partly by skin-grafts. forehead. It is impossible to give details of these operations because the defects vary so much in character. In most cases curved incisions should be used. Loss of the whole or greater part of the nose.—The methods of forming a new nose are very unsatisfactory, as the organ shrinks and ultimately forms an unsightly mass on the face. Indeed, in most cases the patient will be much better off with an artificial nose suitably tinted and held in position by spectacles. In India, however, the loss of the nose is generally regarded as a social stigma, its removal being a common punishment for infidehty, and hence the surgeon is often called on to restore it—the operation, even if comparatively unsatisfactory from a cosmetic point of view, reinstating the woman in her social position. We shall therefore describe these operations, although they are not to be recommended under ordinary circumstances.