AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 202 generally called for at first, and this may also have to be increased. With the extension it is necessary to combine fixation of the limb, whilst injections of iodoform emulsion into the joint and the administration of tuberculin subcutaneously may be useful. Operative Treatment. — When operative treatment is called for on account of the continuance of the intense pain or extension of the disease, either arthrectomy or excision will be employed. 7» children arthrectomy is the operation of choice (see p. 204). In performing the operation special care must be taken in inspecting the bones so as not to overlook a primary osseous deposit. Should the cartilage be much destroyed and pitted, it is well not only to remove it completely, but also to shave off a thin layer of the bone beneath. This may be done with a knife, and not more than a quarter of an inch in depth need be taken. Under no circumstances should the ends of the bones be scraped, as this is very likely to force tuberculous tissue into the cancellous spaces and so facilitate the spread of the disease. In adults the chances of recovery are not good when the destructive changes have reached this stage, and the results of e:i;c/s20w in adults are so excellent and are obtained so quicldy and with such little risk that there seems no valid reason why excision should be delayed when it becomes evident that the ends of the bones are being destroyed. The best that can be hoped for from expectant treatment is a stiff joint, and this will often require years of rest, while the patient will never be secure against a recurrence of the disease, and if the anchylosis which results is fibrous the limb may be a painful one, especially if it is twisted or wrenched. On the other hand, a successful excision removes the disease, cures the patient within a short time, and generally leaves him with an absolutely firm limb, without risk of recur- rence and without liability to sprains. The chief objection to excision is that, as it is performed nowadays, the operation takes a long time and is accompanied by considerable shock and loss of blood ; hence it should not be undertaken lightly in weakly patients, in those suffering from tuberculous disease elsewhere—particularly in the lung—or in those with renal disease. For the majority of these patients the choice must lie between continuance of the expectant treatment and amputation. When, however, the patient is vigorous and able to stand an excision, it seems more reasonable to resort to it when the disease has arrived at this stage than to continue the expectant treatment indefinitely. The operation is described on p. 208. Treatment of the third stage.—Here, in addition to the de- structive changes in the synovial membrane, the cartilage and the bone, which have already been referred to, there are unopened abscesses or sinuses, usually septic. The treatment will vary according as the abscesses are unopened or not, and also according as the patient is a child or an adult. When there are unopened abscesses.—^The treatment will depend