279 WOUNDS administered. The prognosis is, however, practically hopeless if pneumonia develops, as the patient is unable to clear the lungs owing to the embarrassment resulting from the paralysis of the abdominal and other muscles. WOUNDS OF THE SPINE. STABS.—Penetrating wounds of the spine are very uncommon except in military surgery, but they are occasionally met with as the result of stabs, or falls upon sharp-pointed instruments. The sjmiptoms and their severity vary with the amoixnt of damage done to the spinal cord, and in all cases in which the spinal canal is penetrated the occurrence is one of considerable gravity, owing to the risk of septic spinal meningitis. Treatment.—The treatment of these wounds must be conducted on the same lines as for penetrating wovmds elsewhere. If the opening in the skin is small, made with a clean instrument, and seen at once, it will probably siiffice in most cases to disinfect the skin and the orifice of the woimd, and to apply an antiseptic dressing. If there are symptoms of haemorrhage, it will be necessary to perform laminectomy [vide supra), arrest the haemorrhage, and remove the clot. Urotropine should be given in large doses as it is said to be of considerable value in preventing infection of the cerebro-spinal fluid. BULLET WOUNDS.—The chief penetrating wounds of the spine are, however, due to bullets, and almost any lesion may result. Perhaps the most common occurrence is that the biillet is embedded in the body of the vertebra ; in other cases it may fracture the neural arches and cause compression of the cord ; or again, it may perforate the spinal canal and divide the cord. Treatment.—When the laminae are fractured or when there are signs of injury to the cord, whether due to fracture of bone and pressure on the cord or to direct injury by the bullet, the proper procedure seems to be to perform laminectomy as soon as possible. This will enable the surgeon to remove any fragments of bone or blood-clots which may be pressing on the cord, and to ascertain what the exact injury is. If the cord has been injured by the bullet the operation cannot, of course, do any good ; but in most cases the spinal symptoms are due to the pressure of fragments of bone, and their removal may be of gi-eat service. A radiogram will help in determining whether the spinal symptoms are due to perforation of the cord by the bullet or to the pressure of pieces of bone, and will also locate the bullet. Whether an operation should be performed, in the absence of spinal symptoms, simply to remove a bullet is a matter which is not so easy to decide. In many cases a conical bullet makes a clean wound and may