325 H^MATOMATA OF THE SCALP will enter, and then to scrub the scalp with the ordinary disinfecting solution, i.e. ' strong mixture ' (see Vol. I. p. 99). If preferred, the part may be rubbed with acetone, and then painted with a two per cent, solution of iodine in rectified spirit. It is well also to make a very small incision through the skin at the point where the aspirating needle is to be inserted. A small antiseptic dressing should be applied over the puncture and fixed on with collodion. A mass of wool should then be placed over the haematoma and pressure applied as before. It may be necessary to repeat this procedure more than once. Except in old-standing hfematoma, this treatment will generally lead to a cure. Occasionally, however, the fluid continues to re-accumulate and it will then be necessary to drain the cyst. A short incision is made at the most dependent part of the tumour and a small drainage Fig. 137.—Method of applying Pressure to a H.iiMatoma of the Scalp. In a the strips of bandage are shown in position and kept in place by the horizontal turns. The two ends of one particular strip are being pulled upon preparatory to turning them up and knotting theiu over the pad of wool as in b. tube (No. 5 or 6) is inserted. Before putting in the drainage tube, it is well as a rule to introduce a sharp spoon and scrape away as much of the blood-clot as possible. This not only removes material which is slow in organising, but also enables the walls of the cyst to fall together. Great care must be taken with the aseptic management of the case, because suppuration beneath the occipito-frontalis is a very serious matter. It may be advisable, therefore, when the head is very scurfy, to shave a considerable area of the scalp in the vicinity of the hfematoma, and to disinfect the skin very scrupulously, before operating. In other cases only a small area need be shaved, but the skin and the hair around must be thorouglily disinfected, and cyanide paste should be well rubbed into the hair before making the incision. This is made by mixing the double cyanide of mercury and zinc powder with i in 20 carbolic