437 TUMOURS OF THE BRAIN advisable; for instance, the Inilging of the brain after removal of the skull may be so great that the scalp cannot be properly stitched up unless portions of the tumour are removed. When a growth has been partially or entirely excised, a cavity is left which will hll up rapidly, partly by blood and partly by expansion of the very vascular brain substance. The bleeding generally stops on the application of pressure with a hot sponge, but in some cases it is advisable to pack the cavity for two or three days—in fact, some surgeons advocate that the cavity in the brain should always be packed with gauze, which is left in for forty-eight Fig. 191.—Whalebone Introducer and Metal Guard for Gigli's Saw in OPERATIONS UPON THE Skull. The instrument, as shown above, is passed between the dura mater and the skull, from one trephine hole to the other (see Fig. 187). The saw (see Fig. 18) is then attached to the whalebone guide by means of silk, and the guide is withdrawn, pulling the saw into position along the groove in the metal guard which protects the dura mater. hours. Sutures should lie passed through the lips of the wound in tlie scalp where the packing emerges, and the ends knotted together ; they are tied when the packing is taken out. In the majority of these cases there is no question of replacing the bone unless an osteo-plastic flap has been made; when the operation is done in two stages, some days must elapse, and the bone removed cannot Fig. 19:;.—Horslev's Brain Knife. This is really a delicate spatula. be kept alive unless ' cold storage'' is employed. When the conditions are such that there is every prospect of the recovery of the patient, the question as to the best method of guarding against the danger entailed by the large defect in the skull assumes importance. The mere implanta- tion of fragments of decalcified bone over the siuface of the dura mater is of httle use, as that generaUy leads at best only to a little extra thickening of the fibrous tissue. Plates of aluminium, celluloid, gold, or silver have been applied over the orifice and have healed in, but as a rule the most that can be done is to apply a moulded plate of silver or aluminium outside the scalp after the wound has healed. ' It has been recently shown that the vitality of tissues can be preserved for a considerable time by this method.