AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE 556 SALIVARY CALCULUS. Salivary calculus may occur in the parotid, although it is more frequent in the submaxillary gland. In the parotid it may occur in the substance of the gland or in Stenson's duct. The exact etiology of these calculi is not clear. They are probably due to some alteration in the composition of the saliva whereby small hard masses accumulate in the duct and, if retained for any length of time, become infiltrated with calcareous salts, especially phosphate of lime ; in this way the characteristic small ovoid calculi are gradually formed. These calculi usually find their way forward until they are arrested close to the orifice of the duct. Their presence in the duct gives rise to con- siderable inflammation of the lining membrane, and ulceration may occur. Indeed, if the obstruction persists for a long time, suppuration may take place around the calculus. TREATMENT.—When the calculus is impacted in Stenson's duct it is usually situated close to the orifice, and then all that is necessary is to evert the cheek, pass a fine probe-pointed canaliculus knife into the orifice and slit up the duct sufficiently to admit of the calculus being squeezed out with the finger or withdrawn with forceps. The orifice of the duct is usually prominent and somewhat fixed by the inflammation, and it is therefore easier to pass a probe into it under these circumstances than in the normal state. In passing a probe it should be remembered that though the duct runs parallel to the cheek, the terminal portion pierces the mucous membrane almost at right angles, and, therefore, the probe should be passed in this direction for about one-eighth of an inch before being turned backwards along the duct. The most difficult cases, however, are those in which the calculus is impacted at some considerable distance from the opening. Even then it can generally be pressed forward by the fingers until it is within reach, when the duct is slit up and the calculus removed. If not, it may be necessary to cut down on the calculus through the mucous membrane just in front of the masseter and to slit up the waU of the duct. No stitches need be put in, as it does not matter whether the slit in the duct closes or not. It is very important that the calculus should be removed by incision in the mouth ; otherwise a salivary fistula is very apt to form. NEW GROWTHS OF THE PAROTID GLAND. Several varieties of new growths are found in the parotid, such as fibroma, myxoma, lipoma, or angioma, but these present no special points of importance.