SUPPURATION FROM MIDDLE-EAR DISEASE opinion it is better not to wash out the cavity, and we always insert a drainage tube for at least two or three days, a hole being made for it in the centre of the flap, which is then stitched up with a continuous suture. At the end of two or three days, the discharge will generally have diminished so much that the tube may be left out. The disadvantage of a drainage tube is that the brain may become adherent to the edges of the opening in the dura mater and to the under- surface of the flap, and this may possibly be followed by epileptiform attacks. On the other hand, this by no means necessarily occurs, and, when no drainage is employed or when it is not efficient, the abscess may re-form, may extend more widely, and may not be so successfully dealt with on a second occasion. Indeed, it is often difficult to prevent the abscess from re-forming, even when a drainage tube is used. When no abscess is found in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, or when the symptoms indicate cerebellar abscess, the cerebellum must be explored. When the sigmoid groove has not been opened, this may be done by turning down a flap below the superior curved line on the side affected and then applying a trephine in the space bounded by the superior curved line above, the sigmoid groove in front, and the middle hne behind. After the trephine hole has been made, the further procedures are identical with those just mentioned. The abscess is usually found in the anterior and upper part of tlie cerebellum—and that is the direction in which the forceps should be introduced first. These abscesses not imcommonly extend directly inwards from the lateral sinus, and when the sigmoid groove has been exposed, it may only be necessary to cut away a little bone below it, and then, after incising the dura mater, to introduce the forceps below the lateral sinus directing them towards the upper and anterior part of the cerebellum. When the abscess has been successfully opened and the patient does well, the drainage tube may be removed in two or three days, and the wound usually heals in a week or ten days. It is seldom that any protrusion of brain takes place through the small opening left b}^ the drainage tube ; if it does, the suppuration is still active and the drainage imperfect.