AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 100 occur in the fascice and ligaments elsewliere in the body. Recovery is usually protracted, and relapses are frequent. (c) The disease may be chronic from the first, and consist rather in a persistent accumulation of fluid in the joint than in an acute inflammatory attack ; the condition, in other words, is more one of hydrops articuli than of acute synovitis. {d) Extremely acute cases are occasionally met with, in which actual suppuration occurs in the joint. These are probably pyaemic in nature. The tendency of this affection is to spontaneous recovery—generally after a protracted convalescence. The acute form of the disease, however, is often followed by extensive adhesions in the joint, which will entail considerable stiffness unless great care is taken in the treat- ment. On the other hand, those cases accompanied by extensive effusion may lead to so marked and prolonged a distension of the capsule, and consequent laxity of the ligaments, that permanent weakness of the joint may be left. In the severe cases accompanied by suppuration the result may be very disastrous, either from disorganisation of the joint or from the occurrence of general septic infection. TREATMENT.—There are certain points common to the treatment of the various types referred to above. In the first place it is of great importance to subdue the urethral inflammation as soon as possible, and this is best done by topical appUcations ; internal remedies, such as oil of sandal-wood and copaiba, have little influence upon the lesion in the urethra, which is of an essentially chronic nature, while they are apt to depress the patient, to upset his digestive functions, and thus do harm. The chief reliance must therefore be placed on inira-nrethral medication, effected in the manner described in connection with gonorrhoea (see Vol. v.). It is also well to warn the patient that he is very likely to be affected similarly should he again contract gonorrhoea. A second point common to the treatment of the various types is the use of vaccines. In cases of gonococcal arthritis vaccine treatment often seems to be of decided benefit, and therefore vaccines should be employed from the first in all cases of moderate severity. This subject is fully discussed by Dr. Emery in Vol. I. p. 514. As a rule it is well to use gonococci obtained from the patient himself either from the joint, or failing that, from the urethra. In addition, Bier's congestion treatment is of considerable value in many cases, and should be employed especi- ally in cases which resist other means of treatment. The details of this method are given in Vol. I. p. 13. {a) Of the simple rheumatic form.—In the early stages the best results are obtained by a combination of counter-irritation with rest, in addition to the vaccine treatment referred to above. Rest is best obtained by enveloping the affected joint in a thick mass of cotton-wool, which is firmly bandaged on so as to exert pressure and restrict movement. When the joints affected are in the upper extremity.