490 AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE is excised, and to repair this gap it is sometimes recommended that incisions should be carried vertically downwards into the neck from the two lower angles of the wound ; the flap thus raised is pulled up to the original level of the lower lip and stitched in position. This flap con- stantly tends to retract, and, as a consequence, the lower lip becomes pulled down and proper closure of the mouth is impossible. If, however, curved incisions are made, they allow the flaps to sHde into position without tension, and, as there is not the same liability to subsequent contraction, there is not the same tendency to subsequent drooping of the hp. There is also no puckering at the base of the flap ; for, though it will generally be found that the skin on one side of the incision is more abundant than on the other, puckering can be avoided if a little Fig. 221.—Restoration of the Lower Lip by means of Rectilinear Incisions. The rectangular gap left by the removal of the lower lip is filled by raising a rectangular flap, abdc. This is done by carrying the incisions ab and cd vertically downwards to the level of the hyoid bone. The mucous membrane is stitched to the skin along the line ac, and the flap pulled up and sutured, as shown in B. It is obvious that there must be a very considerable drag on the new lower lip as the scar contracts. raore skin is included between each stitch on the redundant side than on the other, and the cicatrix ultimately becomes a smooth line. Sutures.—Silkworm-gut is the best material where there is tension on the stitches, and fine horse-hair, put in close to the edge of the skin, will suffice for the intermediate ones. Silk is not so good, as it becomes soaked with discharge and may act as a carrier of sepsis. As a rule there is so much scarring that stitch-marks do not matter much, and buried sutures are unnecessary. When, however, the defect is small and the scarring comparatively slight, a great deal of scarring is avoided by using buried sutures (see Vol. I. p. 137). These are especially useful where small tumours or patches of lupus have been excised, and where the edges of the skin can either be brought together or only a small flap is necessary to fill the gap. These wounds heal extremely rapidly, and union by first intention will be obtained in the great majority of cases. When there is no tension on the flap, the stitches can be removed in four five or days. When, however, the flaps have been brought together A B