SINUS THROMBOSIS them. Two forms of thrombosis are met with, namely, non-infective or marasmic thrombosis, and the infective form. Of these the latter is the more common, and is in fact the only one for which active treatment can be employed. The marasmic form chiefly occurs in the longitudinal sinus and affects weakly people, especially children or old subjects, after prolonged and debilitating illnesses. In children, exhausting diarrhoea is one of the most common causes, and the thrombosis generally appears during convalescence, the resirlt being cerebral congestion and oedema. In bad cases the ventricles may be distended with serous fluid, and there may be subsequent cerebral softening. The symptoms are generally somewhat indefinite, but in young children thrombosis may be suspected if convulsions occur after exhaust- ing illnesses, and more especially if the symptoms are unilateral and accompanied by muscular rigidity, or strabismus. Treatment.—There is little to be done beyond ensuring absolute rest and administering nutriment in the most concentrated and easily assimilated form. Citric acid or citrate of potash may be given in large doses to check the spread of the thrombosis, but these drugs have no action on clot which has already formed. Any symptoms which arise should be appropriately treated, but there seems to be no scope for surgical intervention. The infective form.—This condition is usually met with in the basal sinuses, especially in young adults. It is always secondary to some external lesion, and generally occurs at the point nearest to the source of infection. Among the causes which give rise to it are septic compound fractures, and infective processes such as erysipelas, diffuse cellulitis, carl)uncle about the lace or scalp, and middle-ear disease. The condition has already been described in connection with thrf)mbosis of the lateral sinus occurring after disease of the ear (see p. 390). Among the other sinuses which may be affected are the cavernous and the transverse sinuses. Symptoms.—When the cavernous sinus is involved there are dis- turbances in the eye on the affected side, such as congestion of the veins, compression of the oculo-motor nerves, pain, small pupils, cloudy corneae, oedematous eyelids and exophthalmos. Later on, the pupil becomes dilated, and optic atrophy and corneal ulceration may result. There is pain in the supra-orbital and frontal regions, which is increased on pressure. When the tvanverse sinus is involved the symptoms are chiefly connected with the vagus which is irritated at first and subsequently paralysed. Treatment.—The principles of treatment have been discussed in connection with the lateral sinus (see ]->. 399). Ihifortunately these principles cannot be fully carried out, either in the case of the cavernous or the transverse sinus, but they should be borne in mind in case it may be possible to carry them into effect.