PLASTIC SURGERY 495 from the middle line coriTsponding with the breadth of the new upper lip, a stitch is inserted and tied. The adjacent margins of the flaps below this stitch are united with sutures and a vertical line is thus formed which unites the two halves of the new upper lip. The cheek on each side Fig. 226.—Restoration of the Upper Lip. In A are seen the various incisions, while in B is shown the method of svituring necessary to restore the lip. The removal of the portions of skin dbc and d'b'c' give rise to the lines of union be and b'c'; while the point a being sutured to a' allows the cut surfaces in A to make the free edge of the new lip in B. is then brought in to the ala of the nose and stitched there (see Fig. 226, B). This method is most useful, however, when only the middle portion of the lip has been lost and the lateral portions are intact. The mouth may be very considerably contracted at one side as the result of disease or injury, and various methods may be employed to restore it to its proper size. The older plan was to introduce metallic rings through the cheek at the desired new angle of the mouth, and keep them in position until the sinus became covered with epithelium ; the cheek was then split between this point and the angle of the mouth, and the mucous membrane stitched to the skin. This plan does not, however, answer well, as this deformity usually results from some disease which destroys the mucous membrane, the skin, or the whole thickness of the cheek, leaving only scar tissue behind. The method of Dicftenbach is the best under these circumstances and is carried out as follows :— The whole thickness of the cheek is split out to the point where the new angle of the mouth is to be ; if the mucous membrane has been destroyed to a greater extent than the skin, a small strip is then trimmed off the scar tissue on each side, and the sound skin is undermined and turned in, and stitched to the healthy mucous membrane, so that the two are continuous. When the skin alone has been destroyed, the mucous A B MICROSTOMA.