DISEASES OF THE SHOULDER-JOINT 239 portion thus separated clipped away with scissors. The arm is now carried backwards so as to hang over the table, and the muscles attached to the tuberosities are divided sufficiently to enable the head of the bone to be protruded (see Fig. g8). In most cases enough bone can be removed without complete division of the rotators, as a bone section about the level of the anatomical neck or just below it usually suffices. If, however, there is a deposit in the greater tuberosity, that structure must either be removed or the deposit must be gouged out. After the head of the bone has been removed, the glenoid cavity is sawn off, the amount of bone removed depending on the extent of the disease present. The remains of the capsule must now be clipped away with scissors, and a careful examination of the whole area is made to see that all tubercu- lous material has been removed. It is important to leave the attachment of the rotators intact if this can be done safely ; this permits rotation of the arm, whereas after the old operation, in which the rotators were completely cut across and the bone was sawn on a level with the surgical neck, the resulting limb was often very useless, rotation being always imperfect, and indeed sometimes absent altogether. To prevent the stiffness which is so liable to follow excision, a layer of fascia taken from the upper arm should be placed over the divided surface of the humerus, and sutured to the periosteum (see p. 153). A drainage tube should be inserted at the lower angle of the wound, as a considerable cavity is left which may become distended with blood and serum ; this tube may be taken out as a rule in three days. A large wedge-shaped pad should be placed in the axilla so as to prevent displacement inwards of the upper end of the bone. It is well also to place a firm pad over the front of the joint, because the upper end of the bone is apt to be drawn forwards. The wedge-shaped pad should be carried down as far as the elbow, and the forearm should be supported in a wTist-sling. The hand should not be bound to the side, but the limb Fig. 97.—Incision for E.xcision JOINT. >!■ iiiL Shoulder-