CLEFT PALATE 535 muco-periosteum thus formed is raised with a raspatory. Along the opposite side of the cleft an incision is made about a quarter of an inch external to its margin, commencing in front near its apex and running back to the junction of the hard and soft palates. The extremities of this incision should be carried transversely inwards as far as the free margin of the cleft. The small flap thus formed is separated from the bone with a raspatory, the base of the flap being formed by the tissues covering the edge of the cleft. There is thus no actual paring of the edges in this operation. The smaller flap is now turned inwards upon its base so that its raw surface looks downwards into the mouth ; it is fixed by catgut sutures to the narrow strip of mucous membrane on the opposite side of A B Fig. 260.—Davies-Colley's Operation for Cleft Palate. A shows the incisions for the flaps, the large one on the right-hand side of the gap having its base just beyond the junction of the hard with the soft palate. The base of tlie smaller or reflected flap on the left-hand side is along the margin of the cleft. In B the smaller flap is turned back across the cleft and sutured to its opposite edge, while the large flap is raised and applied to the raw under surface of it, its apex being sutured as shown. Two sutures are also shown penetrating the whole thickness of the two flaps so as to keep them together. These stitches are best introduced through the reflected flap before the larger one is placed over it; the ends are then brought through the latter and tied. the cleft left after cutting the larger flap ; this strip of mucous membrane can be turned into the cleft by means of a raspatory. The large triangular flap is then carried across the cleft and its apex is attached by a few silkworm-gut sutures to the mucous membrane at the outer edge of the raw surface made by turning in the small flap (see Fig. 260, B). These sutures are introduced by means of fine fullv-curved needles. The effect of this is to close part of the cleft in the hard palate with a double thick- ness of soft parts and thus the vitality of the flaps is less likely to suffer, and union is more likely to occur, owing to the two vascular surfaces being brought into apposition. The opposed surfaces of the flaps are fastened together by fine horse-hair sutures passed either through the edges or, better, through the whole thickness of the two flaps ; if the latter plan is adopted, fine straight needles and a fine needle-holder will he