WOUNDS 85 be on the lines laid down for the treatment of septic wounds of joints (see p. 86) ; the condition is then practically the same as if the patient had not come under the surgeon's care until some days had elapsed since the injury. CONTUSED WOUNDS.—Here the soft structures superficial to the joint are bruised, and as a rule there is marked soiling of the wound. We may take as the two main types of this kind of injury a machinery accident, in which the skin is torn and the joint opened, and a compound dislocation, in which the bones are forced through the skin. In both cases there is a contused lacerated wound in the soft tissues, and in both the joint cavity will be infected. In the first type the tissues will be much soiled by dirt or grease, while in the second the ends of the bones will be infected by clothing or by contact with the ground or some other object. An aseptic wound can hardly be hoped for unless disinfection be extremely carefully carried out, and these cases therefore are very serious. A general anaesthetic is indispensable. The skin is shaved and dis- infected, and the wound enlarged if necessary so as to expose all the recesses of the joint. All contused and lacerated parts must be cut away with scissors, and the raw surfaces saturated with i in 20 carbolic lotion ; the whole wound external to the joint should then be sponged over with undiluted carbolic acid. It is important to remove the contused tags of tissue ; it is not sufficient merely to apply undiluted carbolic acid to them, for the antiseptic may be unable to penetrate the whole of the soiled area unless the worst parts are clipped away. The joint cavity is now laid freely open and any obviously soiled areas are disinfected with undiluted carbolic acid, the rest of the joint being washed out with i in 20 carbolic lotion. Should the injury be due to dislocation, this should be reproduced in order to get proper access to the ends of the bones, so that they may be cleaned thoroughly. If necessary, portions of cartilage or bone into which dirt is ground must be shaved off with a knife or a chisel. Finally the joint cavity is irri- gated with sterilised normal saline solution ten minutes or a quarter of an hour after the application of the strong antiseptic—time being thus given for the antiseptic to act. This procedure doubtless seems severe, but the irritation resulting from thorough disinfection of this kind is small compared with the grave risk of sepsis, which will almost inevitably occur unless the joint surfaces are thoroughly cleansed. Large drainage tubes (Nos. 16 or 17) are introduced into the joint both through the wound and through counter-openings, so as to drain every recess. No attempt should be made to stitch up the rent in the capsule ; a few- stitches may be put in the skin if the wound in the soft parts is very large or irregular. The limb is put upon a splint in the position in which it will be most useful should anchylosis occur. After-treatment.—Should sepsis occur, it will usually be indicated