AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD 348 After-treatment.—The patient should be kept in bed in a dark room, and noise and disturbance of all kinds should be avoided. The bowels should be freely opened by means of a purge (calomel, gr. iv.-vij.), stimulants should be avoided, and a liquid diet maintained for a few days. If a drainage tube has not been inserted, the dressing need not be changed for about ten days, otherwise it will require renewal at the end of twenty-four hours in order to remove the tube. Compound depressed fracture.—When a depressed fracture is com- pound the conditions are not nearly so favourable, for there is certain to be septic material in the wound and the fractured surfaces may be extensively soiled. The first point, after having shaved the head and disinfected the scalj) thoroughly, is to open up the wound so as to ex- pose the injured area fully. The scalp, with the pericranium attached to it, is raised and held aside. Before proceeding to deal with the bone itself, the edges and deeper parts of the wound should be thoroughly disinfected (see p. 328), and undiluted carbolic acid should be applied to them. Any bleeding vessels are clamped and the entire fractured area is then opened up, either by removing loose fragments or by a preliminary trephining in the immediate neighbourhood (see p. 345). The fractured surfaces are cleaned from dirt and blood-clot and touched with undiluted carbolic acid or cHpped away with punch forceps. It is best not to replace the detached fragments. The wound should be stitched up over the line of fracture, but an opening should be made for drainage at the most dependent part, because the disinfection may not have been entirely successful. 3. Of Punctured Fracture.—Cases of punctured fracture must always be operated upon in order to remove the detached portions of the internal table of the skull which project against and injure the dura mater. The same holds good with regard to ' gutter fractures.' The best plan is to turn down a flap which has the hole in the skin about its centre, and the opening in the skin itself should be thoroughly disinfected as already described (see p. 328), or, better still, excised. The trephine is then applied with the pin just at the edge of the puncture in the skull so that the circle of bone removed includes the punctured portion ; when the circle of bone has been taken away, the detached fragments of the internal table must be removed. If the dura mater has been injured, it will be advisable to enlarge the opening in it, because fragments of the internal table may have been pushed into the brain ; these must be carefully sought for and removed. If possible, the opening in the dura mater should be closed by catgut stitches, and in most cases it is not advisable to put back the circle of bone or any portions of it. It will often be found that it is only necessary to cut through the external table with the trephine, the broken-up inner table being then exposed at once. The wound is stitched up and a drainage tube inserted at the most dependent part ; a stitch should also be put in the puncture