DISPLACEMENT OF THE SEMILUNAR CARTILAGES 69 TREATMENT.—As these dislocations are generally partial, reduc- tion, as a rule, is readily carried out. The patient is anaesthetised, and the lower end of the femur is fixed by an assistant, whilst the surgeon makes traction on the leg and employs the movements necessary for the reduction of the dislocation. Thus, in dislocation of the tibia forwards, reduction is effected by traction followed by fiexion of the knee. When the tibia is dislocated backwards, traction is also employed, and the head of the bone is pushed forwards into position. In lateral dislocations, traction alone may suftice, but if necessary lateral pressure may be made upon the tibia. After-treatment.—-The principal difficulty lies in the after-effects of the injury. Extensive damage is done to the joint, accompanied by considerable effusion of blood, and this is followed by a sharp attack of synovitis. Union of the ruptured Ligaments must be aimed at, otherwise a permanently weak joint will be left. The limb should be put on a straight splint, and an ice-bag or Leiter's tubes (see Vol. I. p. 10) applied to diminish the effusion. Passive movement should be begun during the second week, generaUy under an anaesthetic at first, as the internal damage is considerable and movement will cause great pain. A firm leather splint may be moulded to the joint three weeks after the accident, and the patient allowed to get about. The spUnt is removed two or three times a day for movements and massage. As a rule it is necessary to wear a lace-up knee-cap for several months. I DISPLACEMENT OF THE SEMILUNAR CARTILAGES. Either of the semilunar cartilages of the knee may be injured, gener- ally as the result of some sudden strain, more particularly a twist of the leg on the thigh, such as occurs in playing football, lawn tennis, or any movement in which the leg is firmly fixed on the ground, while the body is twisted violently. The internal cartilage is much more often injured than the external. The result is that sudden, and often excruciating, pain is felt in the joint, the patient may fall down and is frequently unable to straighten the limb for a time. In some cases a prominence, in others a depression, may be felt in the situation of the semilunar cartilage, and in some cases the patient may not be able to straighten the knee completely for some weeks. The injury is frequently followed by synovitis which may last for some days or even weeks. Not uncommonly the patient has further accidents of the same kind, the fact being that in many cases the injured cartilage does not recover completely, and, being more or less loose, moves in the joint and becomes caught between the tibia and the femur from time to time. It is important to note that the dislocation of the internal semilunar cartilage follows outward rotation of the tibia on the femur, while in the case of the external cartilage, the rotation is inwards. The lesions in the cartilage are of various kinds; sometimes it is split