ACUTE INFLAMMATION lOI the arm should be kept in a shng ; when the lower extremity is the seat of the disease, the patient need not be confined to bed, but may rest on a couch or in a chair provided with a suitable foot-rest. When the inflammation affects the tarsal joints, the patient must not bear any weight upon the foot, otherwise there is a great risk of the supervention of flat-foot. Counter-trniation is often of value, and in the milder cases the linimentum iodi may be painted over the joint affected until the skin becomes sore ; this should be employed in addition to the pressure above described. Bier's treatment may also be used if recovery is slow. As soon as the pain has disappeared, the pressure may be increased by applying an elastic bandage outside the wool, and in about a week massage and passive and active movements should be begun. In the less accessible joints, such as the hip and shoulder, pressure is not easily ap- plied and more severe counter-irritants—such as blisters—are indicated. Drugs are of little use in these cases: the best are quinine in doses of 3 to 5 grains thrice daily, and iron in the form of Blaud's capsules in lo-grain doses three times daily after food when the patient is anaemic. Exposure to cold and wet must be avoided, and woollen underclothing should be insisted upon. Although many of these cases recover without any trouble, some of them are very obstinate, and this is particularly the case when the tarsal joints or the plantar ligaments are affected. Under these cir- cumstances a change to a warm dry climate or a sea voyage is often of great help. Vaccine treatment is specially valuable in these cases. {b) Of the ordinary acute variety.—Attention must first be directed to moderating and arresting the inflammation ; secondly, the effusion must be got rid of; thirdly, subsequent stiffness in the joint must ])e avoided. The bowels should be cleared out by a purge, and the diet should be light and nutritious; no stimulants should be given—at any rate, in the early stages. The other general treatment is similar to that for the variety already described. The limb should be fixed upon a suital)le splint, and if the lower ex- tremity is the seat of the mischief, the patient should be confined to bed. Indeed in the early stage the pain is usually so great as practically to prevent the patient from getting about. In the early stages, and especially in superficial joints, such as the knee, the application of leeches, followed by hot fomentations, is often very beneficial; a little laudanum may be sprinkled on the fomentations if there is much pain. In many cases the pain, particularly at night, is so severe that morphine has to be administered. After treatment by rest and fomentations for a few days, the acuter symptoms generally pass off, the pain subsides, and the synovial effusion diminishes. Should there be any delay in the absorption of the fluid, tlie joint slK)uld be freely hlistcred. the patient being confined to bed