PLASTIC SURGERY 497 The flap must be larger than seems requisite at first, so as to allow for contraction, otherwise there may be displacement of the lips or eyelids. When there is destruction of the whole thickness of the cheek, the case is much more serious. The destruction may be caused by injuries, such as severe gunshot wounds; by operations for the removal of tumours; or by disease, such as cancrum oris, in which there is extensive destruction of the cheek and the neighbouring parts. In addition to the defect in the cheek, there is often some closure of the jaws. Cancrum oris, for example, often leads to difficulty in opening the mouth, or even to its complete closure ; this may be due to cicatricial contraction of the mucous membrane of the cheek, to fibrous union between the jaws, or to infiltration of the masseter with inflammatory material. The last condition is very serious and may complicate either of the others. A somewhat similar closure of the jaws may result from operations in which extensive portions of the cheeks—particularly of the mucous surface—have been removed. The remedial procedures here are essen- tially the same, but they should be carried out at the time of the opera- tion ; it is easier to keep the mouth open and prevent contraction while the flaps are uniting than to force the jaws open afterwards. In cases due to disease, on the other hand, it is well not to be in too great a hurry to operate. For example, patients recovering from cancrum oris remain very anaemic for a long time, and the vitality of their tissues is greatly diminished ; if an operation is performed too soon, the flaps may unite badly or slough altogether. Hence the treatment of these cases depends rather upon the closure of the jaws than upon the loss of the soft tissues. The latter is fairly easily repaired, but that is of little advantage unless the fixation of the jaws is also overcome. All sorts of conditions may be met with, but we may classify them broadly into four chief types : (i) A gap in the cheek without closure of the jaws ; (2) a similar condition with plenty of skin, but closure of the jaws ; (3) a large defect with no .sound skin, and with complete closure of the jaws ; (4) extensive and irremediable closure of the jaws. I. A small gap in the cheek without closure of the jaws.—Here two flaps are required for the closure of the opening, a deep one with its cutaneous surface looking inwards towards the mouth and taking the place of the mucous membrane, and a superficial one with its raw surface applied to that of the deeper flap and its skin surface looking outwards (see Fig. 228). The edges of the opening are pared so as to leave a broad raw surface for the attachment of the flaps, the side of the opening towards the ear being however left unpared for a time. A flap, with its base near the defect and somewhat larger than is necessary to cover it, is dissected up, as much subcutaneous fat being taken as can be done without damaging the facial nerve. A good plan is to take a pattern III. KK