INTRA-CRANIAL SUPPURATION FOLLOWING INJURY 385 extra-dural abscess. If there is no bulging of the membrane and the brain pulsates naturally when this is accomplished, a sub-dural abscess is probably absent, and the operation need go no farther. If, however, the dura mater bulges into the trephine hole and does not pulsate, it should be carefully examined to see whether there is any perforation. In some cases a portion of the dura mater will be found to be sloughing, or there may be an actual hole in it. Should such a perforation already exist, the opening should be enlarged and the sub-dural abscess drained. If no opening can be found, a small incision should be made through the dura mater at the centre of the exposed part and an abscess sought for be- neath it. When there is no extra-dural abscess, this procedure is devoid of risk, provided that care is taken not to break down any of the adhesions which shut off the sub-dural and sub-arachnoid spaces. If an extra-dural abscess is present there is always the risk of infecting these spaces, but this is not great, as there will probably be adhesions between the brain and the meninges. Large drainage tubes should be inserted, the flap stitched up and an antiseptic dressing applied. Even when the case is one of compound fracture, it is well to bring the edges of the skin together if possible, after pro- viding for free drainage, because there is a great risk of hernia cerebri. The afiev-treaUnent is simply that of an abscess, and if all goes well, the patient recovers rapidly. If recovery does not take place, the cause is usually extension of the suppuration to the meninges (lepto-meningitis), the formation of an independent cerebral abscess, or the occurrence of hernia cerebri. DIFFUSE LEPTO-MENINGITIS.—When the inflammation extends to tlie sub-dural space and no adhesions form, the disease rapidly spreads over the whole surface of the hemisphere ; it is usually most The upper Fig. 161.—Types of Intra-cranial Abscess. figure is a diagrammatic sketch of sub-dural suppuration."' CEderaatous scalp ; b, carious patch in the skull; c, extra-dural abscess ; d, brain. The lower figure shows the types of cerebral abscess, a, Infective osteitis of skull; b, extra-dural abscess ; c, opening in the dura mater ; d, sub-dural abscess ; e, cerebral abscess.