423 FOCAL EPILEPSY may take place immediately after an injury has been inflicted or an operation wound lias healed. On the other hand, a considerable interval of time, sometimes years, may elapse before the occurrence of the first fit ; indeed, in some cases, the injuries have been so slight that the patient looked on them as quite trivial, and did not take much notice of them at the time, or indeed had forgotten about them. In the interval, perfect health mav have been present. TREATMENT.—The primary object of the treatment in this form of epilepsy should be the removal of any cause of irritation of the cerebral centres. The most favourable results are obtained when the attacks are few, and commence soon after the injury, and when the lesion is situated on the surface of the brain. When the fit remains localised, operation should be performed at once ; the result of operative interference is generally satisfactory. In cases in which the fit, though local at the onset, be- comes generalised, the operation is not likel}- to be followed by a cure, though temporary and possibly permanent alleviation may follow, both as regards the fits and the general health of the patient ; in any case the immediate result is often extremely satisfactory. The relapse, which is not uncommon, is often due to the formation of adhesions or to the presence of fresh scar tissue, and until some certain method of preventing these adhesions is discovered, a guarded prognosis should always be given. It is important to place the facts before the patient or the relatives in all cases previous to operation. When there is a tender and adherent cicatrix on the scalp, excision of the scar, followed by immediate union of the cut edges, may cure the patient ; indeed, in some cases, its separation from the bone with a tenotomy knife has proved sufficient. In most cases, however, the lesicm is deeper and it is necessary to open the skull. The precise spot at which the operation should be performed will be determined bv the symptoms present; by the presence of a scar on the scalp ; by irregularity of the bone ; by tenderness of the skull on percussion ; or according to the group of muscles in which the symptoms commence. The operative procedure will vary according to the conditions present. Removal of the bone with the trephine is always the first step. In some cases, it is well to keep the portion of bone removed, with the view of implanting it again (see p. 344). When the bone is thickened and inflamed, however, this is not advisable; in these cases the mere removal of the bone by the trephine will often arrest the condition. When the dura mater is thickened and adherent, the affected area should be excised without damaging the cortex. If the brain is adherent to the dura mater or to the bone, the adhesions should be separated. If there is a blood-cyst in the sub-dural space pressing on the surface of the brain, it should be taken away. The blood-clot should be gently removed by a scoop, and the cavity irrigated with sterilised normal salt