AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 204 diseased structures should be removed by clean cutting and not by scraping. The latter is a most unsatisfactory procedure ; the tubercles in the synovial membrane are generally embedded in firm fibrous tissue and cannot be removed thoroughly by scraping, and moreover the scraping may force bacilli into the blood and lymphatic vessels. Arthrectomy.-—A large number of incisions have been recom- mended, but the one we advise is H-shaped and consists of a vertical incision on each side of the patella, connected at a later stage in the operation by a transverse one across the centre of that bone (see Fig- 79)- The vertical incisions should reach from the upper limit of the supra-patellar pouch to below the articular surface of the tibia, and should be about an inch from the edge of the patella. They are deepened until the quadriceps extensor is exposed ; this is then separated and partially divided in the lines of the vertical incision, until the fibrous capsule of the joint is seen covered by fat and loose ceUular tissue. The next step is to divide the fibrous capsule, taking care not to cut into the syno- vial membrane. The handle of the knife or a blunt dissector is introduced between the fibrous capsule and the synovial membrane, and these are separated from each other, first of aU in the supra-patellar region. Should, however, the disease be advanced and the fibrous capsule obviously implicated in parts, it is best to take it away as well. The sepa- ration of the synovial membrane from the capsule is effected first between the two in- cisions, and is then continued upwards and on each side until the reflection of the syno- vial membrane is reached, and then downwards over the cond3'les of the femur, and also behind the ligamentum patellae. In this way the whole anterior part of the synovial membrane is separated from the capsule. The supra-patellar pouch of synovial membrane is now puUed down and its posterior surface separated from the femur. The soft parts are weU retracted and the synovial membrane is cut through at its attach- ment around the articular surface of the patella ; this allows the finger to be introduced into the joint, and further facilitates the pulling down- wards of the supra-patellar pouch and its separation from the front of the femur. When this has been done, the membrane is detached from the articular surface of the femur all around as far as can be reached, and from the head of the tibia below. The division is carried as far back- wards as possible on either side beneath the lateral ligaments, and then the whole of the anterior portion of the synovial membrane can be lifted Fig. 79. — Incisions for Arthrectomy of the Knke. The longitudinal incisions should be very free.