AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD 478 operation is usually profuse and some time may be required for its arrest ; it can generally be stopped by sponge pressure. Should it continue, a fine horse-hair drain may be inserted through the wound into the antrum for a few days ; otherwise no drain need be employed. Of the Third Division.—When the third division is affected, the pain may be referred to one branch alone, and of these the one most commonly attacked is the inferior dental, less frequently the gustatory, and still more rarely the auri- culo-temporal. When only one of these branches is attacked, it is well to divide Fig. 213.—Tongue-clip. The clip is kept in position by means of this aloue in the flTSt the catch. The tongue is easily pulled in any direction by passing the finger through the bow of the forceps. inStanCC, rather than tO undertake the serious operation of dividing the third division at its exit from the skull. Neurectomy of the infevioy dental nerve.—The patient is anaesthetised and placed in a good light, with the head propped up and the mouth fully opened with a gag. The cheek on the affected side is firmly retracted by a broad spatula, and the tongue is held over to the oppo- site side either by a tongue-clip (see Fig. 213) or by a silk thread passed through its substance. The surgeon first feels for the inferior dental spine with his left fore- finger ; this is situated immediately above the commencement of the inferior dental canal, and the internal lateral ligament of the jaw is inserted into it. The mucous membrane is now incised vertically for about an inch just internal to the anterior border of the ascending ramus, and is detached for a short distance. The surgeon then feels for the inferior dental spine, which must be accurately defined ; the internal ligament is then divided at its attachment. The inferior dental nerve Fig. 214.—E.XP0SURE of the Inferior Dental Nerve from INSIDE THE Mouth. The figure shows (a), the inferior dental nerve in close proximity to the internal pterygoid muscle (6), and just behind, the inferior dental spine (c).