105 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION When several joints are affected, they are generally inflamed at the same time, or the inflammation in the second joint comes on before that in the first has subsided. In typhoid fever the hip-joint is not infre- quently affected, and a peculiar character of this affection is that spon- taneous dislocation is very apt to occur. In fact, it sometimes happens during convalescence from typhoid or other acute fevers, that spon- taneous dislocation of the hip occurs without any previous symptoms having cahed attention to the affection of the joint. TREATMENT.—This closely resembles that of gonococcal arthritis (see p. 100). Should dislocation occur, as in the hip, reduction should be carried out immediately, and recurrence should be guarded against by employing extension. The general health of the patient must be attended to. The treat- ment suitable for the disease which is the cause of the trouble should be employed, followed later on by general tonic treatment by iron and quinine, good hygienic conditions, nourisliing food, and a moderate amount of stimulants. When suppuration takes place, the treatment must fohow the lines laid down for acute suppurative arthritis (see p. 94). Although of a suppurative character, the arthritis in these cases is not usually very virulent or destructive, and it is not uncommon for an excellent result to be obtained by drainage alone. CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. Under this heading we shall only describe cases of chi-onic inflammation of the synovial membrane or chronic synovitis. Chronic inflammatory conditions affecting the other structures of the joint are described separately. By chronic synovitis is meant a chronic inflammation of the synovial membrane which may be accompanied by marked effusion into the joint, or thickening of the synovial membrane, often of a villous type. CHRONIC SYNOVITIS WITH EFFUSION. The chronic form of synovitis with effusion of fluid into the joint may follow an attack of acute synovitis or may be chronic from the first. In the latter case it may arise from a sprain or other injury to the joint, or it may commence without any apparent cause. It may also be associated with changes within the joint—such as a loose body in the joint, or injury to an intra-articular fibro-cartilage. It may also be due to roughness of the synovial membrane—such as is produced by hypertrophied synovial fringes. Whatever be the cause, the result is that the joint becomes distended with a clear, limpid and serous fluid, whilst in many cases the synovial membrane remains practically normal. The distension of the joint