255 DISEASES OF THE WRIST AND HAND upon an inclined plane. It is well to provide the splint with a wooden support on the under surface so as to raise it when it lies upon an inclined plane or a pillow, and thus allow the thumb to hang down, otherwise the pressure of the inclined plane may push the thumb up. Operative Treatment.—If the disease is progressive, and especially if internal tuberculosis is present, some form of operative procedure must be adopted, the choice lying between excision or amputation. Excision is only suited for cases occurring in comparatively young adults who are healthy and strong, and in whom there is no sign of tuberculosis elsewhere ; when the patient is feeble and old, when there is tuberculous mischief in the lungs, when the local mischief has spread to the tendon sheaths, or when there are abscesses and sinuses, amputation is the best practice. Excision of the Wrist- joint.—The operation intro- duced by Lord Lister is perhaps the one that offers the greatest advantages. It is a complicated procedure and may be modified accord- ing to circumstances. Another operation through a single dorsal incision was introduced by Langenbeck. Before commencing the operation, the fingers must be thoroughly moved so as to break down any adhesions present, because after tlie operation this cannot be done nearly so readily. The operation is admirably described by Mr. Jacobson in 'The Operations of Surgery' (third edition), p. 38, from which the following description is taken :— ' The radial incision is . . . planned so as to avoid the radial artery and also the tendons of the extensor secundi internodii and indicis. It commences above at the middle of the dorsal aspect of the radius on a level with the styloid process. Thence it is at first directed towards the inner side of the metacarpo-phalangeal joint of the thumb, running parallel in this course to the extensor secundi internodii ; but, on reaching the fine of the radial border of the second metacarpal bone, it is carried downwards longitudinally for half its length, the radial artery being thus avoided, as it lies a httle further out. These directions will be found to serve, however much the parts may be obscured by inflanunatory thicken- ing. The tendon of the extensor carpi radialis longior is next detached with the knife, guided by the thumb nail, and raised, together with that a c b Fig. 103.—Lister's Wrist Splint. This splint, which is generally used for excisions of the wrist, is most useful in any inflammatory condition of that joint. The cork pad, a, extends the metacarpus and carpus upon the forearm, and is only of sufficient width to support the four inner meta- carpals. That of the thumb hangs down beside the splint, which is allowed for by raising the latter upon the block, b. There is a lateral piece, c, to keep the forearm and hand in the same straight line.