522 AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE two sides of the lip to come together without unduly diminishing the orifice of the nares ; the edges of the cleft are then pared (see Fig. 247, B ). The incisions are carried downwards and outwards into the lip on each side above the red line ; these flaps are then turned down, and no part of them is cut away until the stitches have been put into the vertical portion. The red line, when stitched together, should show a slight downward projection in the middle line ; this disappears as contraction takes place, or, if it does not, it can be pared down later on. In cases in which the lip is very deficient, a notch may remain in the free margin of the lip, and this will require an operation to rectify it at a later period (see p. 519). COLOBOMA FACIALIS. In this condition a congenital cleft runs upwards through the lip, and passes external to the ala of the nose as far as the internal angular process of the frontal bone. It is a rare deformity, and may be com- bined with a cleft of the palate ; it is sometimes bilateral. The operation required for closing the cleft will depend on its extent ; as far as the lip is concerned, it is practically the same as for hare-lip. CLEFT PALATE. VARIETIES.—When the palatal processes fail to coalesce, the following conditions may result : Cleft of the soft palate alone. Cleft of both hard and soft palates. Cleft of the alveolar margin without implication of the palate. Besides these, there is sometimes a cleft of the hard palate and the alveolar margin without implication of the soft palate, and very rarely there may be a central aperture either in the soft or the hard palate. The cleft in the hard palate may be unilateral or bilateral. As, a rule the septum is united to one side of the cleft—usually the right—but in bad cases, especially those associated with double hare-Up, the septum lies free between the two sides of the cleft. In most cases of cleft hard palate the roof of the mouth is unduly arched, and in bad cases it runs almost vertically upwards and is narrower than usual, so that the material available for closing the cleft is scanty. In estimating the ease or difficulty with which the cleft may be closed, the width of the cleft and the amount of muco-periosteum available on each side of it should be taken into consideration, as well as the degree of arching of the palate. A cleft in a low arched palate is often more difhcult to close than one of the same width in a patient with a high arch. The most difficult cases of all are wide clefts with a rounded anterior end in a low arched palate ; such clefts are generahy incomplete, and do not implicate the alveolar margin.