178 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS outside the pelvis, it is well in the first instance to be content with the treatment of the abscess and to defer the question of excision to a later period. When, on the other hand, the abscess has originated on the pelvic side of the acetabulum, the joint must be excised and the acetabulum perforated so as to evacuate the pus and prevent it from burrowing downwards, for, if it bursts about the perineum, sepsis is certain to occur. When it is decided to treat the abscess alone, the methods to be followed are either aspiration and injection, or an open operation in which as much of the waU is removed as possible. The details of these methods have already been fully given in Vol. I. p. 235. As a general method, especially where there is a risk of sepsis, repeated aspiration as carried out by Calv6 and Gauvain {Lancet, March 5, 1910) should be employed. The other method of treating abscesses has, however, the advantage that the disease is more thoroughly dealt with, and the surgeon has the opportunity of examining the joint and of removing any seques- trum or tuberculous deposit in the bone which may be present. When the abscess has been got rid of, the condition often improves and the treatment becomes that of the second stage. When, on the other hand, the abscess originates within the pelvis it is a clear indication that the acetabulum is diseased ; this is usually due to a primary osseous deposit in the acetabulum, although sometimes the disease of the bone is secondary. Excision of the head of the femur is necessary here to aUow free access to the acetabulum and the evacuation of the abscess. If the abscess has tracked into the iliac fossa it is advisable to begin by making a small incision into it at some point easy of access—• generally in this case about the anterior superior iliac spine—scraping it out as thoroughly as possible, injecting iodoform and glycerine, and stitching up the wound. Excision of the head of the femur should then be performed through the anterior incision, and when the head of the bone has been removed, special attention must be directed to the aceta- bulum so as to remove any osseous deposit, and to establish a com- munication with the interior of the pelvis by gouging away the bone until the abscess can be thoroughly evacuated. After injecting more iodoform and glycerine the excision wound is also closed and the after-treatment of excision (see p. 185) carried out. When there are septic sinuses.—When septic sinuses are present, the conditions are altogether different, and in a good man}' cases excision is advisable. When the position of the limb is good and the patient's general health is satisfactory, and when there are only one or two sinuses, an attempt ma}^ however, be made to bring about a cure of the disease by proper fixation of the limb and the establishment of good drainage. The best method of fixing the joint is to apply a plaster of Paris spica, leaving suitable openings for dressing the sinuses. The plaster casing should be strengthened both in front of and behind the hip,