DISEASES OF THE HIP-JOINT 163 gives rise to tliickening of the periosteum inside the pelvis, often followed b}' the formation of a chronic abscess in that situation. Enlargement of the acetabulum.—Whether the case is one of bone or of synovial disease in the first instance, caries of the joint surfaces takes place after a time and tonic spasm of the muscles surrounding the joint follows, and causes the head of the femur to press firmly against the upper and back part of the acetabulum. This pressure leads to absorp- tion of those parts of the inflamed head of the femur and of the acetabulum which are chiefly in contact, the result being that the upper part of the head of the bone becomes flattened, while the acetabulum is enlarged in an upward and backward direction. Fresh bone is formed beyond the area of absorption of the margin of the acetabulum and thus there is always an imperfect rim of new bone at the upper part of the cavity. This en- largement goes on until the acetabulum loses its round shape and becomes oval and much elongated upwards and backwards ; the head of the femur follows the enlarge- ment of the acetabulum and thus shortening of the limb takes place. This is the condi- tion commonly spoken of as ' dislocation ' in hip disease, but it should be more cor- rectly termed ' wandering acetabulum ' (see Fig. 57). Dislocation.—True dislo- cation is of very rare occur- rence in tuberculous disease. It may however happen, especially in the earlier stages, as the result of destruction of the ligamentum teres and filling up of the acetabular cavity by new tissue. The head of the bone thus becomes loosened and partially pushed out of the acetabulum, and then some sudden movement brings about the dislocation. The head of the bone, however, does not follow the course of the true traumatic dislocation, but simply slips upwards over the rim of the acetabulum and may then pass either back- wards or forwards. Sometimes the dislocation is only partial, the head of the femur being caught on the margin of the acetabulum, which may make a deep groove on it. Abscess.—Chronic abscess is very common; it most commonly points towards the outer part of the joint in front, less frequently about the gluteal fold. Sometimes it presents at the upper and inner part of the Fir,. 57. ' WAiNDERING ACETABULUM ' IN HlP-JOINT Disease. The shallow, newly formed acetabular cavity is seen above and behind the deeper normal cavity.