TUMOURS OF THE SCALP 337 adherent to the skull, and they tend to recur unless widely removed. Rodent ulcer may also occur on the scalp. Many types of sarcoma occur in this situation, but the most charac- teristic variety originating in the scalp is the so-called recurrent fibroma, which should probably be regarded as a slowly growing fibro-sarcoma of low virulence. Sarcomatous tumours may also originate from the skull itself, or may even begin in the meninges and perforate the bone, and ultimately involve the scalp. TREATMENT.—Malignant tumours of the scalp require wide and early removal, the raw surface left being allowed to granulate and then being skin-grafted. When the tumour involves the skull either primarily or secondarily, operation is usuallv contra-indicated, but X-rays, radium, or Coley's fluid may be tried. In some cases, however, when the growth is not spreading rapidly, removal should be attempted in spite of adhesion to the skull. A tourniquet should be applied round the base of the skull and a number of BaUance's forceps (see p. 329) should be in readiness. An incision is then made encircling the growth about three-quarters of an inch from its edge. The area thus enclosed is dissected up for a short distance, and then the outer table of the skull, together with the base of the ulcer, is removed with a sharp chisel. After the bleeding has been arrested, the wound is drawn together as far as possible with stout tension stitches, allowed to granulate and subsequently skin-grafted. After the operation it is well to expose the raw surface to radium and to repeat this after five or six weeks. Naevi may occur anywhere on the scalp, but they are most common about the anterior fontanelle and in the frontal region ; in the neighbour- hood of the fontanelle the tumour may reach a considerable size and may, in some rare cases, extend to the dura mater. TREATMENT.—The treatment of naevi has already been described (see Vol. I. p. 255). For small nsevi on the scalp the best plan is the application of a stick of solid carbonic acid, wliich should be well pressed down upon the growth for about thirty seconds ; a little dusting powder is then applied, and in a couple of weeks the naevus will have entirely disappeared. If the carbonic acid is not available, the nsevus may be excised. For na;vi of moderate size (that is to say, up to an inch in diameter), excision is better, especially when they are situated over the anterior fontanelle. It is true that these may also be satisfactorily treated with carbonic acid, but several applications are necessary, and the application of carbonic acid to large naevi, especially when it has to be repeated, is apt to cause sloughing. In excising a naevus of the scalp, it is important, in order to avoid dangerous hsemorrhage, to carry the incision wide of the growth and remove it rapidly ; the haemorrhage III. z