390 AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD may form in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, either as the result of direct extension along adhesions between the membranes, or of infection carried along the peri-vascular spaces. These abscesses usually occur near the surface of the con- volutions and may be found in any part of the temporo- sphenoidal lobe ; when arising by direct continuity, they are generally situated about the middle of the lobe, but in other cases the infective material may spread along the peri-vascular sheaths and set up the abscess at some distance from the affected bone. Cerebral abscesses are usually limited by a sort of pyogenic membrane and the pus is often foetid, the most common cause of the foetor being the presence of the Bacillus coli communis. Sometimes the pus is greenish in colour from the presence of the Bacillus pyocyaneus; in other cases, the coloration is due to the presence of blood. In the pus there are often sloughs which consist of the white matter of the brain. These abscesses are generally single, although smaller ones are sometimes found in the vicinity of the main abscess. As the disease spreads, the lateral sinus is also very liable to become infected and thrombosed, the thrombus becoming disintegrated and giving rise to septic emboli and pycemia. From the groove of the lateral sinus the inflammation may extend inwards and lead to an extra-dural abscess, a lepto- meningitis or a cerebellar abscess. The cerebellar abscesses may form by direct extension from the inflamed membranes, or without Fig. 164.—Diagram to show the Directions in which Infection may spread from the Middle Ear. a, Frontal sinus; b, anterior fossa of the skull; c, middle fossa ; d, internal carotid artery ; e, foramen ovale ; /, foramen spinosum ; g, great superficial petrosal nerve ; h, cochlea ; i, facial nerve ; k, vertebral artery ; I, seventh and eighth nerves ; m, semi- circular canals ; «, jugular foramen ; 0, sigmoid sinus ; p, posterior fossa ; middle ear ; s, antrum.