io6 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS p. 103) ; we prefer i in 4000 sublimate solution for the purpose. usually occurs slowly and remains stationary for a long time, so that in the early stages the patient continues to use the joint and only notices that it is slightly stiffer than the other. Under rest and appropriate treatment the fluid will diminish or even disappear, but there is apt to be a recurrence as soon as the joint is used again. When the effusion has lasted a long time, laxity of the fibrous structures of the joint results, so that ultimately the articulation may be much weakened. Patients suffer so little in the first instance that they are apt to neglect the affection, particularly when they have to earn their living. It is not until the disability produced by the stretching of the ligaments is so great as to prevent the patient using the joint properly that he seeks advice. TREATMENT.—In the treatment of these cases steps must be taken, firstly, to ascertain and, if possible, remove the cause ; secondly, to get rid of the fluid and arrest the inflammation ; and, thirdly, to restore the functions of the joint. The cause should always be removed, if possible ; a careful examination must be made to ascertain which of those enumerated above has led to the trouble. Fringes of the synovial membrane, injured inter-articular cartilages or loose bodies, must be dealt with in the appropriate manner ; often, however, no definite conclusion can be come to as to the cause, owing to the distension of the joint. A most important point in the treatment is to remove the fluid, and treat the inflammatory condiiion. The most efficient way of doing this is by rest, and if the affected joint is in the lower extremity, the patient must lie up, and the limb must be fixed upon a splint. At first the rest should be absolute, as the disappearance of the fluid will be much delayed if the patient is allowed to get up, even for a few hours. In the case of the knee, for example, the limb should be placed on a back splint with the joint slightly bent, and somewhat elevated upon a pillow. Blisters should be applied over the lateral aspects of the joint, and also over the supra-patellar pouch. As soon as one bhster has healed, a second should be apphed, and after that a third, if necessary. If the fluid be markedly less after two or three blisterings, massage should be carried out twice daily, and in the intervals pressure should be applied by means of cotton-wool and a bandage (see p. 80). When the fluid has disappeared, the joint should be strapped with Scott's dressing (see p. 117), and the patient may then be allowed to get about. Under this treatment the fluid generally disappears in three or four weeks. Should the fluid re-accumulate after the patient begins to walk it would only be waste of time to repeat the above treatment. Should no cause—such as the presence of hypertrophied synovial fringes—be found, the patient should be again put to bed and the fluid withdrawn by an aspirator; and it is a good plan to wash out the joint with some slightly irritating fluid as described for gonorrhoeal arthritis (see