AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 142 CHRONIC OR MONARTICULAR RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS (OSTEO-ARTHRITIS). The nature of this disease has given rise to much dispute. Some authors hmit the term ' rheumatoid arthritis ' to the form which closely resembles the acute—viz., it is polyarticular and affects the small joints. The monarticular form they speak of variously as ' senile arthritis,' ' osteo-arthritis,' or 'traumatic arthritis.' Similar changes, however, occur in all these cases, whether the disease follows an injury or arises spontaneously, and these changes resemble those found in rheumatoid arthritis proper so closely that it seems best to group together all the cases under one heading, whatever be the apparent mode of origin. The parasitic theory as to the origin of rheumatoid arthritis is not sufficiently well established to enable the presence or absence of bacteria to be used as a point of diagnosis. The latest view is that the affection is due to chronic sepsis, such as occurs from pyorrhoea alveolaris or from intestinal stasis. The disease is usually limited to one or two joints and chiefly affects the larger ones, such as the knee or the hip. Its progress is steady with only occasional exacerbations. The patient first notices that the joint is stiff and somewhat painful; in the morning the stiffness passes off to some extent as the joint is exercised. After a time the pain in- creases and may be the marked feature of the case. The difficulty in movement may also increase, and the changes taking place in the joint surfaces may cause the limb to assume abnormal positions or even to undergo actual dislocation. As time goes on, the stiffness increases, partly from the shrinking of the capsule, but mainly from the formation of osteophytic outgrowths around the joint. Alterations in the shape of the articular ends interfere with the normal movements, and the patient becomes more and more crippled as the disease progresses ; if several joints in the lower extremity are affected, he may be entirely bed-ridden. Little is known as to the causation of the disease. It is more frequent in cold, damp climates than in dry, warm ones, and it is always worse in those individuals who are exposed to cold and damp. A very common history is that the disease followed an injury, such as a sprain or twist of a joint, or a fracture in the neighbour- hood of, or extending into one ; a loose body in the joint is very apt to set up changes characteristic of this disease. By some it has been attributed to rheumatism, by some to gout, and by some to a combination of the two; hence the term 'rheumatic gout.' There is no evidence, however, that either gout or rheumatism play any part in the affection. The influence of chronic sepsis has been already referred to.