SUPPURATION FROM MIDDLE-EAR DISEASE any adhesions of the membranes at all. They are usually situated in the upper and anterior region of the cerebellum. Hence in cases of long-standing suppuration in the middle ear—or, more rarely, in acute cases—one or more of the following conditions may arise: (i) Suppuration in the mastoid antrum ; (2) disease of the bone over the attic or about the lateral sinus ; (3) pachymeningitis and extra-dural abscess in either of these situations ; (4) phlebitis and septic thrombosis of the lateral sinus, in addition to extra-dural suppuration in that region ; (5) localised sub-dural suppuration or diffuse suppurative lepto-meningitis ; (6) abscess, either in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe or in the cerebellum. SYMPTOMS.—The diagnosis of the various complications of middle- ear suppuration is by no means easy, especially as several of them may be associated. Hence in any given case it is often difficult to say how far the infection has proceeded, and the surgeon has to feel his way step by step until the whole of the disease has been dealt with. The following are the chief symptoms : In acute suppuration in the mastoid antrum the constitutional disturb- ance is even more marked than in acute otitis media, and the patient exhibits all the signs of severe septic absorption—the temperature often reaching 104" F. or 105'^ F. There is severe local pain in the ear, radiating over the side of the head, and acute tenderness over the mastoid process, especially at its tip. The skin in the region of the mastoid process is oedematous, and, as the disease progresses, fluctuation may be detected, indicating that an abscess has formed outside the bone. The ear is pushed forwards and projects from the side of the head. The meatus is swollen, especiallv in its postero- superior aspect, and, if the disease is of long standing, it may be filled with pus, granulation tissue, and all the evidences of chronic suppurative otitis media. In severe cases there may be facial paralysis, especially when the disease is tuberculous ; sometimes patients apply for treatment for that condition, the accompanying discharge from the ear being regarded as of no importance. Suppuration in the mastoid antrum is practicall}^ alwa3'S present before the infective process has spread to the cranial cavity, and, although the symptoms of antral suppuration tend to obscure those of deeper infection, various types of intra-cranial sup- puration have special diagnostic features which may be distinguished in certain cases and afford some indication as to the extent of the disease- But it must be remembered that it is very difficult to arrive at an exact diagnosis in the majority of cases before an operation has been performed. In sinus thrombosis the temperature is generally high with marked remissions, the pulse is rapid and feel^le, there are frequent rigors followed by profuse perspirations, pain in the posterior triangles of the neck, tenderness in tlie sub-mastoid region and down the course of the jugular