TUMOURS 453 and it is practically certain to leave a visible scar. The number of hairs which may be taken on one occasion naturally varies with the coarseness and distribution of the hairs ; one may, however, take forty as an average number. ' After the operation is finished the patient may be given some lead or calamine lotion to cool the part, but nothing will hasten the healing of the damaged areas. The natural sequence of the after-effects is as follows : Immediately on the completion of the operation the part is somewhat red and shiny to the eye and hard to the touch, while there are numerous little yellowish dots indicating the mouths of the follicles. The oedema passes off in one or two hours, and the yellow dots dry up into scabs within the first twenty-four hours, forming dark brown crusts which show rather more than the original marks. These crusts fall off in about three days and the process is practically complete, with the exception of possibly a little redness. Patients differ a good deal in the rapidity with which their skins recover the normal appearance, and for those who have a tendency to pustular acne it is a safe plan to prescribe frequent dabbing with a i in 4000 perchloride of mercury lotion to prevent infection of the destroyed follicles. It is wiser not to exceed this strength, as sublimate lotions have a tendency to stimulate the growth of hair. ' From this it will be seen that the same area may usually be gone over twice in one week, but on no account oftener. ' If the electrode is not grasped until after the needle is well engaged in the folhcle and is dropped before the needle is withdrawn, the pain is not great, and is usually described as irritating rather than severe. The chin is usually far less painful than the upper lip, and the centre of the latter is much more sensitive than the outer parts. ' It should be remembered that the patient would prefer to have a hair return, and let it be destroyed on another occasion, to being marked with a permanent scar. It is therefore wise to err on the side of too weak rather than unnecessarily strong currents. With care and experience, however, relapses should not be more than one per cent., even with the use of very moderate currents. ' It is, however, advisable in the case of young women, in whom the growth of hair is obviously progressive, to be careful in explaining that the treatment does not prevent the growth of hair in other parts of the skin, and that, until either all the hair is destroyed or the progressive growtli stops, the treatment will have to be renewed from time to time. ' For the destruction of small hairy moles the method of procedure is almost identical. Owing to the fact that the hair is almost invariablj^ stronger and that a scar must necessarily result from the destruction of the mole it is usual to work with a stronger current (five milliamperes). All the hairs in the mole should be first carefully removed, and after a few days, if the mole has not been entirely effaced in the process of destroying the hairs, the needle may be run through it in various directions, and the