AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD 442 very vascular, and great pains must be taken to limit the loss of blood by the means described on p. 430. Results.—Some patients are greatly benefited by these palliative operations and life is rendered much more tolerable; on the other hand, a good many cases do not improve. LUMBAR PUNCTURE IN INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM AND THE MENINGES.' By Dr. W. D'ESTE EMERY, In cases of injuries to the head or spine, in cases of cerebral disease, and especially in persons found unconscious, examination of the cerebro- spinal fluid may afford information of the utmost value. The operation is simple and easy, and the examination of the fluid does not, in many cases, require much special knowledge. The only instrument required is a long and sharp needle. The needle should be at least three inches long, and not too flne, otherwise it may be Fig. igg. Emery's Curved Needle for Lumbar Puncture. broken in the tissues by spasmodic contraction of the muscles. An antitoxin needle will serve, if nothing better is at hand. The author's special needle (see Fig 199) is more convenient, especially if cultui'es have to be made. It is sterilised by dry heat in a test-tube plugged with cotton-wool. The operation is best conducted with the patient in a sitting position, with his head bent well forward and his back arched. As this is often impracticable, the patient may be placed on his side with his back well curved forward. In either position, the laminae of the lumbar vertebrae are separated as widely as possible, and the introduction of the needle is greatly facilitated. The point at which the puncture is made is slightly to one side of the middle line, in the interspace between the second and third or the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae. The guide to these points is a line drawn between the highest points of the iliac crests, which crosses the spinous process of the fourth lumbar vertebra. The direction of the puncture is forwards, with a slight ' For further details upon this subject the reader should consult a special manual—such as that of Dr. Emery, Clinical Bacteriology and Hematology (Lewis, London).