266 AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE In these chronic cases there is often a rheumatic or a gouty tendency, and, under these circumstances, a sojourn at Bath, Buxton, or some similar watering-place, may be beneficial. H^MATO-RACHIS. Hsemato-rachis or haemorrhage into the membranes of the spinal cord may follow rupture of the ligamenta subflava, or may result from a severe blow on the back or a faU without rupture of these ligaments. The blood is usually extravasated between the dura mater and the bones, but sometimes the extravasation may occur within the theca. The symptoms are very similar to those which follow meningeal hemorrhage in the brain ; in the early stage there are signs of irritation of the cord, followed by definite pressure symptoms if much blood has been effused. As the clot has more room in the spinal canal than in the cranial cavity, the pressure symptoms Are not so frequent, however, and the irritative symptoms are more prominent. Hasmato-rachis may be suspected when there is severe pain both at the seat of the injury and along the distribution of the nerves arising from the corresponding area of the cord, and also when there are irritative symptoms, such as muscular cramps, due to irritation of the motor nerve-roots. TREATMENT.—The patient should be put to bed at once, and kept perfectly quiet in the prone position. Ice should be apphed to the spine, and subcutaneous injections of adrenalin chloride (five to ten minims) or of ergotinine citrate {j^-^ gr.) may be given with the view of checking the bleeding promptly. A smart purge—calomel, gr. v.— should also be administered, and, as in all spinal injuries, the condition of the bladder must be ascertained, lest there should be retention of urine. Should the symptoms show no improvement under this treat- ment, and more especially when pressure symptoms supervene, it is well to open the spinal canal, and evacuate the clot. This is done by the operation of laminectomy, the steps of which have already been described (see Vol. II. p. 131). As a rule the clot is outside the dura mater and is thus easily evacuated ; should it not be found there, the dura mater must be opened and the clot removed from beneath it. CONCUSSION OF THE SPINE. By the term concussion of the spine is meant a condition in which there is a molecular disturbance of the nerve cells, without any gross organic lesion ; this leads to temporary loss of function. In the majority of cases of supposed concussion, whether cerebral or spinal, minute lesions, chiefly in the form of capillary haemorrhages, are present. A certain number of cases, however, occur in which no such lesion can be detected, and in these we can only attribute the paraplegia to a temporary