SUPPURATION FROM MIDDLE-EAR DISEASE 389 carefully cleansed and a small plug of cyanide gauze inserted into it. A large hot fomentation is then applied over the side of the head. The meatus should be cleansed night and morning with cotton-wool mops ; there is less risk of forcing pus into the antrum with them than by syringing. If the disease is confined to the middle ear the patient's condition will improve rapidly, but if it has extended farther, little or no rehef will be obtained. Chronic Suppnraiive Otitis Media usually follovv's the acute suppurative form as the result of neglect, of insufficient drainage, or of repeated attacks. The chronic condition may follow certain affections of the nose, such as adenoids, and is often due to tuberculosis of the middle ear or the mastoid process. In these cases there are perforations of the membrana tympani, adhesions and pockets of pus in the tympanic cavity, granulations (polypi) around the perforation, and often caries and necrosis of the ossicles or the temporal bone. The chief sym])tom is a purulent discharge from the ear, a little blood in the pus from time to time, and a varying amount of deafness. The condition may go on for a long time and may Fig. 163.—Myringotome. involve the antral cavity, and then from various causes may flare up and lead to one or several of the following complications. COMPLICATIONS.—In connection with suppurative disease of the middle ear, the infection tends to spread rapidly in various directions. Commencing in the mucous membrane of the middle ear, it extends to the tvmpanic attic and mastoid antrum, invades the wall of the middle ear and antrum, and finally penetrates externally, leading to the formation of an abscess over the mastoid process, or internally giving rise to diffuse meningitis or localised abscesses which may be extra-dural, intra-dural, or intra-cerebral. An extra-diiral abscess situated over the roof of the attic is not at all uncommon ; it may attain a considerable size, and may open into the middle ear or the antrum, if the bone is perforated. In some cases the inflammation of the dura mater may lead to adhesion of the dura to the arachnoid over the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, and the formation of a localised sub-dnral abscess there. This is not infrequently accompanied by sloughing of the dura, so that the sub-dural abscess is in contact with the bone. In other cases, the adhesions between the membranes may not prevent wider infection of the sub-dural and sub-arachnoid spaces, leading to diffuse suppurative leplo-iiicjiingitis. Again, an abscess