150 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS membrane by a delicate pedicle which may be so long and narrow as to allow the cartilage to move in various directions. Some accident sets the body free in the joint by tearing across or twisting the pedicle. It would appear that loose bodies may actually increase in size after all organic connection with the synovial membrane has been severed. Loose bodies are not uncommon in connection with osteo-arthritis, but it is doubtful whether they are the result of the rheumatoid change or whether their presence in the joint sets up the rheumatoid condition. The joint most frequently involved is the knee ; the next in frequency is the elbow, but the bodies may occur in any joint. The inconvenience caused varies according as the cartilage is loose or attached. If the cartilage is loose, it is very apt to become caught between the articular surfaces, when sudden and intense agony is caused, and the joint is temporarily locked. On the other hand, when it remains attached to the synovial membrane, it may not get between the ends of the bones, and may only cause some slight obstruction to certain movements and occasional effusion into the joint. TREATMENT.—The only treatment of value is early removal bj' operation, and it is well to remember that in aU such operations a healthy joint is opened, and that therefore the strictest asepsis is necessary. The chief difficulty in the operation lies in finding the body, which slips about extremely easily. Unless the body can be located and fixed before operation, it is quite possible to open a joint and fail to find it. even after a very prolonged and thorough search. This particularly applies to the knee, in which the body may slip behind the femur and cannot be got out. It was formerly the practice not to operate unless it could be found and fixed just before the operation was undertaken, notwithstanding that the surgeon knew from actual examination that there was a loose body in the joint; at the present time, however, this rule does not hold good. In the knee, the best position in which to fix the loose body, if this is possible, is on one side of the supra-patellar pouch, preferably the inner. The patient may be able to keep it in place with the finger, or strapping and a pad may be fixed over it, so as to prevent it from slipping whilst the anaesthetic is being administered. During disinfection of the skin, fixation may be secured by transfixing the loose body by means of a stout needle thrust into it through the skin. A curved incision is made, a flap of skin and subcutaneous tissue is thrown back, all bleeding is arrested, and the capsule is incised directly over the loose body which is held steady by the needle tiuust through it. When the capsule has been opened, a sharp hook is inserted into the cartilage, which is then pulled out. When, as sometimes happens, the loose body recedes deeply into the joint at the moment of incision, a very useful manoeuvre is to flush out the joint with the saline solution under considerable pressure; the body