AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 230 otherwise very apt to collect ; while, in cases in which there are septic sinuses, suppuration is very likely to occur. After-treatment.—After the wound has been stitched up, and the usual dressings applied, it is well to employ an anterior splint, so as to avoid pressure upon the tissues over the heel. The best arrangement is an anterior suspension splint (see Fig. 92). A flat bar of malleable iron is moulded to the leg from the tubercle of the tibia to well beyond the toes, the foot, meanwhile, being kept at a right angle. The iron is fixed to the leg and the anterior part of the foot by a water-glass or plaster of Paris bandage, the region of the heel being left free for dressings. The bar is furnished with hooks by which it may be suspended from a cradle. The drainage tube should be kept in for about ten daj^s; when the wound Fig. 92.—Anterior Suspension Bar applied after Artiirectomy of the Ankle. The wound is shown exposed without any dressings and without the sling which should support the heel. The splint is fixed to the limb by plaster of Paris bandages and suspended from a cradle. This gives sufficient fixation to the joint and at the same time allows dressings to be properly applied. It is a very useful splint for excision of the os calcis. has healed, the limb should be put up in plaster of Paris, with the foot strictly at right angles. The patient should not be allowed to walk, or to hang the limb down, for two or three months after the operation. Results.—The results of this operation are very satisfactory ; patients are able to walk with comfort and without limping by merely placing a small pad of felt, wool, or india-rubber inside the boot, to supply the deficiency left by the removal of the os calcis. As a matter of fact, a considerable amount of new tissue, sometimes actual bone, forms; and the depression of the heel is not nearly so great as one would expect after removal of so large a bone. In most cases a pad about half an inch thick will be sufficient to compensate for the loss.