438 AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD Afler-ireaiment.—The shock resulting from the operation must be combated by appropriate measures, care being taken, however, not to employ alcohol. The patient must be kept perfectly quiet in a darkened room, and must not be disturbed b}^ noises or by the visits of friends. Restlessness must be met by injections of morphine or heroin. The dressings should be changed and any packing or drainage tube removed after two or three days. As soon as possible the patient should be propped up in bed with pillows, so as to diminish the congestion of the brain and hinder the escape of cerebro-spinal fluid. Confinement to bed and absolute quiescence will be required for three or four weeks. The bowels must be kept regularly opened and light diet given. Palliative Operations.—When it is impossible to locate the tumour or when circumstances render it inadvisable to attempt ing hernia cerebri, while at the same time a sufficient amount of bone can be removed to relieve the intra-cranial pressure efficiently. By operating in these areas also, the functions of the brain are least liable to be affected. The operation sliould be performed on the same side as the tumour when this is in the cerebrum, and, if necessary, it may be repeated on the opposite side. When operating on the cerebellar region, it is usual to remove the bone on both sides. Cushing's Temporal operation.—A large flap is marked out proportionate to the amount of bone to be removed (see Fig. 193)- The incision involves the skin and subcutaneous tissues only, and the vessels entering the base of the flap must not be divided. The temporal fascia is then divided in the line of the muscle fibres, and these are separated down to the bone throughout their whole extent. The nmscle is raised from the bone by a periosteal detacher, and the Fig. 193.—Cushing's Temporal""Decompression. The incision for the flap. The incision only goes down to the temporal fascia. its removal, relief of the symptoms may be obtained by means of the so-called ' decompression' operations. The object of this opera- tion is to lessen the general intra-cranial tension b}^ the removal of a large portion of the skull. The temporal region is the one generally selected, but in some cases the occipital region may be preferred. These i"egions are the most suit- able, because the thick muscles and dense fasciae serve to restrain the result-