PLASTIC SURGERY 499 flap is applied immediately after the deep one and good union occurs, the base of the flaps may usually be divided after a fortnight. When the operation is done in two stages, three to four weeks should elapse. This is also a useful operation for gaps left after removal of growths. The chief disadvantage is that hairs grow from the skin which is turned in to replace the mucous membrane, and, although this ceases after a time, it causes the patient great discomfort. Hence a fortnight before operation the surface from which the flap is to be cut should be exposed to X-rays or radium for a sufficient length of time to ensure the fall of the hairs; or if time allows, depilation may be practised (see p. 451). 2. A small defect tvith plenty of skin, but closure of the jaws.—Here the chief trouble is the closure of the jaws. It is best to divide the repara- FiG. 229.—Gussenbauer's Plastic Operation on the Mouth. In A the quadri- lateral flap has been raised, and the dotted lines indicate the incisions for splitting the cheek back to the masseter. When this has been done, the flap is turned into the mouth and sutured to the mucous membrane as in B. In C the flap has been divided along the line aa, and turned forwards and sutured to the margins of the gap. The incision be is for the flap that is to be superimposed on the outer raw surface of the one sutured into the defect. The raw surface left by raising the latter is skin-grafted. five procedures into two stages, opening the jaws at the first operation and closing the defect three or four weeks later. In the first stage a skin-flap about an inch broad in front and somewhat wider behind (see Fig. 229) is marked out by two incisions extending from the margin of the mouth to the masseteric region. This flap of skin and fat is dissected up and turned back, its base being over the masseter ; the cicatricial tissue is then divided from the margin of the mouth to the internal pterygoid muscle, and the mouth forced open. Any cicatricial tissue over the internal pterygoid muscle should be divided and any bands which prevent the opening of the mouth cut across. The skin-flap is turned into the gap thus made and stitched with catgut to the mucous membrane over the inner surface of the pterygoid muscle A good way of keeping the flap applied to the raw surface is to pass a suture