TUBERCULOUS DISEASE 297 full in a paper by Mr. Gauvain on the ' Mechanical Treatment of Spinal Caries,' published in the Lancet on March 4, 1911. We may mention the main points : The patient is fixed on a board resembling a Phelps's box, except that it is not divided for the legs (see Fig. 116). The foot end is much higher than the sides so as to take the weight of the bed-clothes off the feet and thus prevent the onset of foot- drop. The bottom of the board is perforated with holes to ventilate the mattress. Beneath the most prominent part of the angular curvature, a piece of wood, from two to four inches in height and about the same width, is fixed across the board from one side to the other ; its place, however, may be taken by a firm pillow. The object of this is to produce hyper - extension of the spine. A firm horse-hair mattress cor- responding in length to the trunk of the patient is placed over the tray. Extension is arranged for by slits at the upper and lower ends of the frame, through which elastic webbing, attached to the head and legs can be carried. A jacket composed of stout jean and stiffened with whalebone is fitted accurately to the body of the patient. On the back of the jacket two strips of webbing, crossing each other in the form of a St. Andrew's cross, are let in ; they are buckled to the sides of the board and keep the patient in the exact position reciuired. In cases of cervical caries a bridle is fixed to the head of the patient and attached by elastic straps to the upper end of the board. The chief disadvantage of the board, in the form described above, is the difficulty of getting at the back without disturbing the patient unduly, and the risk of bed-sores over the points of pressure, especially if a transverse bar of wood is employed. To prevent the latter occurrence it is necessary that the back should be frequently attended to, and this naturally involves considerable movement. Mr. Gauvain has therefore introduced an additional splint, which he terms a ' back-door ' splint (see Fig. 110.—Gauvain's Tkav for Spinal Cakii-.s. The description of tlie tray is t;iven in the text. The stout jean corset is seen attached to the crossed strips of webbing. (From a photograph by Mr. Gauvain.)