I 456 AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE 3. Epiphora.—Epiphora, or overflowing of the tears, usually occurs in connection with fractures of the lachrymal bone accompanied by injury to the lachrymal sac ; it may also arise from fracture and blocking of the nasal duct. 4. Cellulitis and suppuration about the nose : this only rarely follows fracture of the nasal bones. TREATMENT.—Apart from the question of the complications, fracture of the nasal bones calls for careful and immediate treatment, because, if left to itself, considerable deformity may result either from flattening of the bridge of the nose, or from lateral displacement of the organ : nasal obstruction may also be produced. These deformities are difficult to remedy at a later stage, the worst being the displacement of the cartilaginous septum. Of the Fracture.—In cases unaccompanied by displacement, little treatment is required ; the application of an ice-bag externally, or even syringing the nose with ice-cold water to check the bleeding and effusion, will suffice. The patient must be cautioned against touching his nose or attempting to blow it; he often finds it difficult to resist doing this, because of the irritation set up by the fracture and the accumulation of blood. If there is depression of the bridge or lateral displacement of the nose, it is essential to replace the bones as soon as possible, and for this purpose it is well to administer an anaesthetic. It is not advisable to wait for the subsidence of the swelling or even for the haemorrhage to cease, because repair takes place with extreme rapidity, and the deformity may be very difficult to correct unless it is treated at once. Lateral displacement of the nose is readily remedied by pushing the nose back into position. A little manipulation over the bridge will usually get the nasal bones into their proper relative positions, after which the nose must be examined to see that the septum is in place ; if not, it must be put right. When the bones have been replaced, there is no great tendency to subsequent displacement, and no appliance for keeping the bones in position is required as a rule. The patient should lie on the side opposite to that towards which the displacement has occurred, and a small ice-bag should be placed on this side of the nose; this will check the effusion of blood, and its weight will tend to keep the bones in position. The patient should be seen daily at first, and if the displace- ment should recur, it must be remedied at once. In five or six days the bones will be fairly firm, but the patient should still be forbidden to handle or blow the nose. When the septum has been displaced, every eft'ort must be made to remedy the displacement, but this is sometimes very difficult; as a rule, it does not occur in connection with lateral dislocation of the bone. In some cases the septum can be pushed into position by introducing a narrow, thin spatula into the nose. In others, it is necessary to use