AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE 458 deal of care. External manipulation may first be tried, but it is generally necessary to introduce some instrument into the nostril to push out the bones. It must be remembered that the space between the nasal process of the superior maxilla and the septum is very narrow, and therefore only a very fine instrument can be used in order to push out the bones properly; to attempt to do it with ordinary dressing forceps is quite futile. A pair of fine sinus forceps, a curved probe-director, or, still better, a fine spatula should be employed. This is introduced into each nostril alternately, and the fragments gradually pushed up into position with the assistance of the fingers applied externally. The fragments may be retained in position by packing the upper part of the nostril with very narrow strips of cyanide gauze, applied with a fine firm probe ; below this the nasal plug shown in Fig. 203 is inserted, in order to keep the packing in position and allow the patient to breathe. The objection to this method is that the packing is difficult to apply owing to the narrowness of the nostril; that in a short time it becomes foul, and must therefore be frequently re- newed ; and that this renewal is apt to be followed by recurrence of the displacement, and may cause great pain. When, therefore, the fragments will not remain in position of them- selves, it is better to use some external appliance, such as a metal band round Fig. 204.—Walsham's Splint for Fracture the forehead, from which two arms OF THE Nasal Bones. ■ , r ■ i, j -xu j u- u project furnished with pads, which can be applied, one on each side of the bridge of the nose, and tightened up so as to keep the nasal bones in position (see Fig. 204). Mason suggested a simple method of keeping up the bridge in bad cases by passing one or more hare-lip pins from side to side through the nose beneath the fragments. These pins project on each side for about half an inch, and a good firm cork is pushed over each projecting end (see Fig. 205). The two pieces of cork on each pin are then pressed together, so as to exercise lateral pressure on the nasal bones, while the pin prevents the bridge from falling back. In many ways this is a more satisfactory arrangement than the apparatus just mentioned, because, while applying lateral pressure, it prevents the bones from falHng back. No apparatus need be continued for more than three or four days, for by that time so much lymph and new material will have been thrown out, that the fragments will remain in position if care be taken not to blow the nose or to disturb it in any way.