CHAPTER III. 13 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. These accidents usually occur in middle-life, and are rarely met with in early childhood or in old age. After escaping from the capsule, the head of the bone may pass forwards, backwards, or downwards—the particular form of the dislocation being determined mainly by the direction of the force and the position of the arm at the time of the injury. The primary displacement may also be modified subsequently by muscular action or by further violence ; this especially applies to the downward dislocation. The violence which generally produces the injury is a fall or blow upon the hand or the elbow, with the arm abducted and rotated outwards. The result is that the head of the bone is thrust violently against the anterior inferior part of the capsule which gives way, and allows the head of the bone to pass downwards below the glenoid cavit}^ VARIETIES.—In all the forms of dislocation the primary displace- ment is sub-glenoid. As the head of the bone passes downwards it comes into contact with the anterior edge of the long head of the triceps, and, unless the direction of the force be such as to drive the head backwards, the result of contact with this structure is displacement forwards ; the head then lies below the coracoid process—the so-called snb-caracoid dislocation—which is the most common dislocation of the shoulder. When the violence is more severe, the head of the bone may be thrust beyond the coracoid process until it lies beneath the clavicle—the form spoken of as sub-clavicular dislocation Still more rarely the head of the bone travels backwards ; this is the result either of a faU with the hand fully outstretched, or of direct violence applied to the front of the shoulder. Here also the lower part of the capsule is torn, but generally somewhat more posteriorly than in the former instances, and the head of the bone is carried backwards and lodges in the infra-spinous fossa—the subspinous dislocation. Among the rarer forms are the sub-acromial dislocation, in which the head of the bone passes upwards into contact with the acromion, and