232 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS and as much of the synovial membrane as possible. If the infection of the synovial membrane has not extended far, this may stop the generalised disease of the tarsus which is so very grave. TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF OTHER TARSAL BONES. Besides the bones already considered,, the astragalus, the cuboid, the scaphoid, and the internal cuneiform are not uncommonly attacked. We have already dealt fully with disease of the astragalus in connection with tuberculous disease of the ankle-joint, of which it is frequently the primary cause (see p. 220). When the patient is young and there is disease of one of the tarsal bones or disease limited to one part of the tarsus, operative treatment is preferable to expectant methods. Under the latter, the disease almost inevitably spreads to the various tarsal joints and is very grave. Tarsal disease is particularly resistant to expectant treatment and is very commonly associated with internal tuberculosis; therefore no time should be wasted in expectant treatment when the disease is limited to one bone or to one portion of the tarsus. The removal of individual tarsal bones does not really damage the usefulness of the foot. The scaphoid, the cuboid, or the internal cunei- form may be removed, and after a year or two it will be difficult to say that any bone has been taken away. We would therefore strongly advise operative procedures, in all cases in which there is disease limited to one tarsal bone or to a portion of the tarsus. These will consist in removal of the affected tarsal bone, or, if the disease has spread into the surrounding joints, of the section of the tarsus (bones and synovial membrane) which is affected. Excision of individual bones.—The internal cuneiform may be removed by a longitudinal incision made directly over its inner side and carried down to the bone ; the soft parts are dissected up, and the ligaments divided upon the dorsal and inner aspects. The bone is then seized with forceps, the toes are forcibly pulled outwards and the liga- ments on the outer and posterior aspect divided with a long narrow knife ; by twisting the bone, the plantar ligaments can also be cut and the bone removed. The scaphoid is removed by a similar incision directly over the bone, extending well above and below its limits so as to facilitate retraction of the parts. After the affected bone has been removed, the wound should be stitched up without a drainage tube unless sinuses have been present ; before this is done, a little iodoform emulsion should be left in. Healing by first intention will take place, after which the foot may be put up in a water-glass or plaster of Paris bandage. The patient is not allowed to walk for two or three months.