DISEASES OF THE KNEE-JOINT 197 In the first stage the synovial membrane is tliickened throughout, though the thickening may be greater at one spot than at another; the result is a general elastic swelling of the knee, sometimes very marked. This thickening is most readily made out in the supra-patellar pouch at the point of reflection of the synovial membrane, where it will be found to be especially thick and to roll under the finger ; there is no enlarge- ment of the bone and usually but little pain. The mobility of the joint is in some cases quite good, but generally there is some restriction of movement and more or less flexion. The thigh muscles, especially the anterior group, waste very rapidly. In the second stage the disease has spread from the synovial membrane to the ligaments, the cartilages, and the articular surfaces ; this con- dition may result from extension of the primary synovial disease or from sudden rupture of an osseous deposit into the joint. Under the latter circumstances the symptoms become suddenly acute, and were formerly described under the name of ' ulceration of cartilage.' In this stage there is much pain on movement and on pressing the bones together, owing to the osteitis of their articular ends. The ligaments are unduly loose and the joint can be moved laterally, whilst there is tonic spasm of the hamstring muscles, so that the joint becomes flexed ; as the disease progresses, the ligaments become softened and allow the leg to be pulled backwards and rotated outwards. The degree of thickening of the synovial membrane at this stage depends upon the acuteness of the disease, and upon whether it was a case of primary disease of the synovial membrane. When the disease begins in the synovial membrane the enlargement of the joint is generally very marked, but when it is secondary to rupture of an osseous deposit the thickening may be comparatively slight, and there may be a considerable amount of fluid in the joint. In the third stage abscesses are also present. These abscesses may form in the most superficial portions of the synovial membrane and may then find their way externally without opening into the joint. Hence it does not necessarily follow that a probe will pass into the cavity of the joint when there is a sinus in connection with knee-joint disease, and therefore in probing these sinuses the greatest care must always be taken not to employ force, otherwise a communication with the joint, not previously present, may be established. In other cases, however, the abscess in the synovial membrane communicates both with the joint and the exterior, whilst in others again the suppuration begins within the joint and finally the pus makes its way through the capsule and the skin over it. In this stage there is generally increased synovial thickening; there ma}^ also be severe starting pains at night, whilst the laxity of the joint increases, and flexion and rotation outwards of the leg are more marked. As the flexion goes on, the tibia becomes drawn up behind