ACUTE INFLAMMATION 103 measures be taken. Some surgeons ivash out the joint after the aspiration with a three per cent, sohition of carboUc acid. Schuchardt states that he has obtained still better results by irrigating with a one per cent, watery solution of protargol. We use a i in ^000 sublimate solution. A small incision should be made through the skin sufficient to allow the entrance of a trochar and canula of fair size into the synovial cavity, the former is withdrawn, and the fluid evacuated by pressure. The irrigating fluid is now in- jected into the joint in sufficient quantity to distend it thoroughly, and, the finger being placed over the end of the canula so as to prevent the escape of the fluid, the capsule is freely manipulated so as to distribute the fluid evenly over the interior. The finger is then removed from the canula and the fluid is squeezed out. This procedure may be re- peated two or three times, after which the joint cavity is distended with sterilised saline solution, and emptied so as to get rid of the irritating lotion ; unless this is done, a smart attack of synovitis is likely to follow, as the sublimate solution is too irritating to be left in the joint. Although an attack of acute inflammation not infrequently cures the dropsical condition of the joint, just as it cures hydrocele, it is apt to give rise to considerable effusion of fibrinous material into the joint which may lead to the formation of adhesions. Hence massage and passive movement must follow as soon as possible. {d) Of cases complicated by suppuration.— These are practically cases of pyaemia, and free drainage of the joint by incision and the insertion of drainage tubes will be called for. In many cases the septic condition is not very virulent and large incisions are not therefore necessary, two or three full-sized drainage tubes (No. 20) being sufficient. When, how- ever, the condition is more acute, or when the inflammation continues in spite of the insertion of drainage tubes, more vigorous measures, similar to those described for acute suppurative arthritis, must be adopted (see p. 94). Fig. 53.—Aspiration of the Knee-joint. The diagram shows the best spot at which to puncture the joint and tlie direction in which the needle is to be introduced. LEUCORRHCEAL ARTHRITIS. A form of arthritis indistinguishable clinically from that due to gonorrhoea is sometimes met with in women who are the subject of leucorrhcea. It is usually of a nuld type, but it may be severe and may