323 H^MATOMATA OF THE SCALP is extensive an ice-bag is often valuable. The first object of the treatment is to prevent further bleeding, but when the haematoma ceases to increase in size, the application of cold should be discontinued, as it depresses the vitality of the tissues and so may favour suppuration or sloughing. As a rule it is unnecessary to shave the head or even to cut the hair unless there is a superficial wound. These lijematomata generall}/ dis- appear in a few days. This is a more important form. In some cases a large amount of blood is effused and may spread over a large area beneath the muscle, and absorption may go on very slowly. This form of hematoma is also important because in it—though not to the same extent as in the next variety—a mistaken diagnosis is not uncommon, a depressed fracture of the skull being suspected. After the blood is effused, the margin of the heematoma usually becomes hard owing to clotting of the blood in the tissues around, while the centre may remain soft and fluctuat- ing. When the collection of fluid is small and not tense, the finger pressed over it passes into a depression in the centre, which feels very like a hole in the bone. When such a blood-cyst forms, absorption may not occur or it may go on very slowly ; in some cases the skin over it becomes gradually thinned and ultimately gives way. In other cases again, especially when there has been an abrasion of the skin, suppuration may take place. TREATMENT.—The treatment of these cases consists (i) in limiting the effusion of blood ; (2) in promoting rapid absorption of the blood already effused ; and (3) in taking measures to prevent infection and consequent suppuration in the haematoma. I. To limit the Effusion. — If the case is seen directly after the accident, it is well to apply an ice-bag or an ice-cap 1 at once (see Fig. 136) ; ' An ice-cap can easily be improvised by coiling india-rubber tubing around the head over a night-cap, to which the coils are stitched to keep them in position. THE SUB-APONEUROTIC HEMATOMA. Y 2