GUNSHOT WOUNDS 355 foreign bodies and loose fragments of bone should be removed. An attempt should be made to cover the deficiency in the bone with flaps from the healthy scalp, so as to minimise the risk of hernia cerebri. It is impossible to give the details of these operations, but as a rule the best plan will be to slide a large flap of the scalp, with its base downwards, over the deficiency; this will leave a raw surface over the uninjured skull, which can be skin-grafted subsequently. These cases are specially liable to hernia cerebri (see Chap. XXXIV.). The less severe injuries to the bone may be divided into gutter or saucer-shaped fractures, perforating fractures, and penetrating fractures. A gutter fracture is produced by a high velocity bullet striking the skull almost tangentially, cutting a groove in the outer table, and fracturing the inner table over a corresponding area. The saucer-shaped fracture is produced by the impact of a low velocity projectile, the energy of which is insufficient to penetrate the skull, but enough to fracture it and depress the fragments. In a perforating fracture the bullet passes through the skull and thus there are two fractures; in a penetrating fracture the bullet only passes through one side of the skull and lodges in the cranial cavity. Treatment.—The injuries to the soft parts must be treated on the lines already laid down under scalp wounds. The treatment of the injuries to the bones is that of compoiind depressed fracture, and the skull must be opened in all cases so as to deal with the inner table. The need for this is evident in the case of saucer-shaped fractures, which differ in no way from those produced by a blow on the head with a blunt instrument such as a hammer. Even in gutter fractures the skull must be trephined, on account of the comminution of the inner table, although the injury to the skull may appear to be only a shallow groove in the outer table. PERFORATING FRACTURES.—These are the most common results of the modern conical bullet fired at medium ranges. There is a small wound of entrance with punched-out margins, and a similar but slightly larger wound of exit. The holes in the skull are sharply cut, usually with a few short radiating fissures around the apertures. Connecting the two openings in the skull is the track of the bullet through the brain; the central core of this consists of the disorganised brain substance which has been actually crushed by the bullet, and surrounding this is a cylinder of brain tissue which has been severely injured ; the closer the range the wider the destruction around the central track. The zone of damaged brain is not sharply marked off, its outer part being capable of recovery to a certain extent, its inner part being irretrievably injured. The results of such an injury will depend, of course, upon the part of the brain affected and the amount of damage done to the larger blood-vessels ; thus a bullet may go transversely through both frontal lobes and the patient may make a complete recovery.