132 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS JOINT AFFECTIONS DURING THE TERTIARY STAGE. At this period there may be a gummatous deposit either in the synovial membrane or in the peri-synovial tissues. It is most common to find definite nodules or gummata, but occasionally there is a diffuse gumma- tous infiltration of a part or the whole of the synovial membrane. When left untreated, these gummata extend on the one hand towards the interior of the joint, and on the other towards the skin, so that finally the skin may give way and leave a typical tertiary syphilitic ulcer extend- ing down to the joint, with which it may actually communicate. Septic infection and acute arthritis result. In the rarer forms, marked by diffuse gummatous infiltration of the peri-synovial tissue, the joint becomes somewhat irregularly enlarged and the synovial membrane is apparently thickened, so that it may be difficult to distinguish the condition from tuberculosis. The syphilitic thickening, however, is not so uniformly diffused over the whole joint as is the tuber- culous lesion, and movement, although restricted, is unaccompanied by pain. Effusion of fluid is usually present. Gummata may also be met with in the epiphyseal ends of the bone, and may open into the joint and cause swelling of the synovial membrane and effusion into the joint. In some very rare cases the symptoms which accompany this communication with the joint are fairly acute, and are not unlike the result produced by the bursting of a tuberculous deposit into the joint (see p. iii). TREATMENT.—General.—^The most important point is to adopt the general treatment suitable for tertiary syphilis (see Vol. I. Chap. XI.). Local.—Local treatment is also of value. Benefit may be obtained by applying mercurial ointment over the joint, which may be done by rubbing half a drachm of unguentum hydrargyri well into the skin, and then putting on a mass of wool with an elastic bandage over it, so as to combine pressure with the mercurial application. It is also well to apply a splint during the early stage, especially in the case of the knee-joint. This treatment often suffices to cure the disease, but sometimes very rebellious tertiary joint lesions may improve up to a certain point and then come to a standstill. This is most likely to be the case when there is an extensive deposit in the bone rather than an affection of the synovial membrane, and the question of operative interference will then have to be considered. The X-rays are very useful in determining whether a sequestrum is present. The operative measures have been discussed in connection with syphihtic diseases of bone (see Vol. II. p. 461, and also Vol. I. p. 225). Should there be a syphihtic ulcer communicating with a gummatous deposit, it will certainly be advisable to scrape away as much of the