CHAPTER XVII. 149 LOOSE BODIES IN JOINTS. By a loose body in a joint is understood an al:)normally movable structure, which is apt to get between the articular ends of the bones and to interfere with tlieir movements. Loose bodies may be divided into those originating inside the joint and those introduced from without ; the latter should strictly be called foreign bodies, examples being bullets, pieces of glass, etc. The loose bodies having an intra-articular origin may be divided into two classes, namely : {a) structures which normally form part of the articu- lation, but which have become detached ; and (b) those derived from the growth or deposition of new materials which form no part of the normal joint. Of the former class a typical example is a detached fibro- cartilage, but this will be considered more appropriately in connection with the particular joints in which the fibro-cartilages occur. Some- times portions of cartilage may be detached from the underlying bone by injuries, and may form loose bodies. The common type of loose body in the joint belongs to the second group of which we have spoken, and is formed within the joint. Three conditions may be mentioned: (i) detached hypertrophied villous processes ; (2) the so-called ' rice bodies '; and (3) the true loose cartilages whicli are not the result of injury, but are due to the development of cartilage in the synovial fringes. We have already referred to the villous condition of the synovial mem- brane (see p. 107), and the rice-like bodies occurring in tendon sheaths and joints have also been discussed (see Vol. II. p. 83). We need therefore only deal here with the true loose cartilages. Loose cartilages are usually few in number in any joint and ai'e very often single. They are generally smooth, ovoid, and flattened, and con- sist of a layer of true hyaline cartilage which may be undergoing ossification in the interior. They originate in the synovial fringes, in which a few cartilage cells may be present and may undergo development. In the early stage these bodies are not free, but are attached to the syno\'ial