INDEX. Abney's Photography Aders Plimmer's Constitution of the Proteins Ph>siological Chemistry Adler's Primary Malignant Growths of the Lungs and Bronchi Aikin's The Voice Armstrong's Simple Carbohydrates and the Glucosides Ashby's Healtli in the Nursery Notes on Physiology ... and Wright's The Diseasesof Children Baly's Spectroscopy 17, Barger's Simple Natural Bases Barnett's Making of the Body Bayliss' Nature of Enzyme Action ... Beddard's Elementary Practical Zoology ... Bell's Principles of Gynaecology Bennett's AbJominal Hernia •— On the Use of Massage On Varix : Its Causes and Treatment Recurrent Effusion mto the Knee- joint after Injury Treatment of Simple Fractures Varicose Veins ... Bidgood's Practical Elementary Biology Bose's Comparative Electro-Physiology Plant Response ... Response in Living and Non-Living Bradley's 'I'he Dissection of the Dog Brodie's Essentials of Physiology Bryce's Embryology Bull's Hints to Mothers Bunge's Organic Cheitiistry for Medical Students Butterworth's Manual of Household Work Cabot's Clinical Examination of the Blood... Campbell's Practical Motherhood Cathcart's Protein Metabolism Chapman's The Foraminifera ... Charities Register and Digest Cheyne and Burghard s Manual of Surgical Treatment Coats' Manual of Pathology' ... Colyer's Dental Disease in its Relation to General Medicine ... Denial Surgery and Pathology Cooke's Aphorisms in Applied Anatomy Tablets of Anatomy Corfield's Laws of Health Cramer's Chemical Physiology Creighton's Economics of the Household ... Curtis' Practical Bacteriology PAGE . PAGE 17 i Gaskell's The Origin of the Vertebrates ... g 20 I Glazebrook's Physical Optics 17 13 ,' Goadby's Mycology of the Mouth 16 Goodsall and Miles' Anus and Rectum ... 5 3 I Gray's Anatomy, Descriptive and Applied ... 5 9 Grunbaum's Essentials of Morbid Histology 6 Dakin's O.xidations and Reductions in the Animal Body ... ... ... ... 20 Desch's Metallography ... ... ... ... 19 Dickson's The Bone Marrow ... ... ... 5 Donnan's Thermodynamics ... ... ... 19 Drude's Theory of Optics ... ... ... 17 Ellis' Outlines of Bacteriology 16 Findlay's Phase Rule and its Application ... 19 Fitzwygram's Horses and Stables 18 Frankland's Bacteria in Daily Life ... ... 16 Friend's Theory of Valency ... ... ... 19 Furneaux's Human Physiology ... ... 12 Practical Hygiene 14 Halliburton's Chemical Physiology ... Hall's Life and I^etters ... ' Harden's .Alcoholic Fermentation Hardy's Colloids ... Hayes' Training and Horse Management Hobart's Medi al Language of St. Luke Hopf's Human Species ... Hopkins' Biological Chemistry ' Hudson and Gosse'sThe Rotifera Imms'Sketch-Book of Zoology 12, Influence of Heredity on Disease 6 Inquiry into the Phenomena attending Death by Drowning g James's Ball Games and Breathing Exercises 14 Johnson's Annuities to the Blind g Kidd's Urinary Surgery ... ... ... 6 King's College Hospital Cooking Recipes ... 10 Klocker's Fermentation Organisms 16 Krogh's Respiratory Exchange in Animals... 20 Leathes' The Fats 20 Lehfeldt's Electro-Chemistry 19 Lickley's The Nervous System 12 Ling's The Polysaccharides 20 Lloyd's Introduction to Biology 12 Lloyd and Bigelow's Teaching of Biology ... 12 Luff s Text-book of Forensic Medicine ... 6 Macalister's Systematic Zoology of the Vertebrate .Animals ... 12 Zoology of the Invertebrate Animals 12 ■ Vertebrate Animals ... 12 Macdougall's Elementary Plant Physiology 13 Text-book of Plant Physiology ... 13 Marshall's Physiology of Reproduction ... 13 May's Chemistry of Synthetic Drugs ... 10 Mees'Atlas of Absorption Spectra 17 Mellor's Chemical Statics and Dynamics ... 19 Monographs on Biochemistry ... ... ... 20 on Inorganic and Physical Chemistry 18 Moon's Relation of Medicine to Philosophy 10 Moore's Elementary Physiology ... ... 13 Morgan's Animal Biology ... ... ... Notter and Firth's Hygiene Practical Domestic Hygiene Osborne's Vegetable Proteins...