TUBERCULOSIS 117 traction has been overcome, cause recurrence of the pain from stretching of the diseased hgaments. It is not uncommon to find that, when a weight of about five pounds is applied, it will relieve the pain at first, but the latter will recur in a week or two as a result of the stretching of the inflamed ligaments after the muscular contraction has been over- come. The mistake commonly made in these cases is to think that the recurrence of pain implies that the contraction of the muscles has over- come the weight, and that the latter must be increased accordingly. It often imphes, on the contrary, that the contraction has been overcome, and that the weight is too great and must be diminished. That this is so is borne out by the fact that the recurrent pain is not accompanied by starting pains at night. It is therefore most important to watch the result in all cases in which extension is being employed, and to reduce the weight as soon as it is evident that the muscular resistance has been overcome. Counter-iyritation.—In many cases benefit follows the employ- ment of other measures which are of value in chronic inflammation unaccompanied by tuberculosis. Among these is counter-irritation, which, although a favourite remedy in chronic inflammation and formerly also in tuberculous joint disease, has been largely given up in the latter because it has no specific action against the tubercle bacillus itself. Its true therapeutic effect in diminishing the chronic inflammation has been much overlooked. In pure synovial disease improvement sometimes follows the application of a succession of blisiers, over or around the articulation, a fresh blister being applied as soon as the raw surface produced by its predecessor has healed. When, however, there is much pain in a deep- seated joint, which continues in spite of rest and extension, the actual caiiiery may be used with advantage (see Vol. I. p. 20). The most striking results are obtained from it in hip- and shoulder-joint disease, and in spinal caries; it does not seem to be of any particular value in pure synovial disease or in the more superficial joints, such as the knee. Pressure.—As a rule, pressure is only of use when recovery is taking place. While the disease is active it is likely to cause irritation and actually to increase the inflammation. Hence, it should not be em- ployed in the initial stages of the affection. The usual procedure is to strap the joint with Scott's dressing—i.e. unguentum hydrargyri composi- tum spread upon chamois leather. This is cut into strips two inches wide and long enough to more than surround the joint. The skin should be shaved and the strips applied from below upwards, each strip overlapping the one below it ; as each strip is apphed, pressure is brought to bear on the joint, just as in applying ordinary strapping. Scott's dressing combines mild counter-irritation with pressure, and the latter may be reinforced by surrounding the dressing with a mass of cotton-wool, over which an elastic bandage is applied. If preferred, a silicate bandage may