TUBERCULOUS DISEASE 305 in children, if the patient is allowed to be up and about, it is not only- useless, but positively harmful. In adults, however, when the disease is in the lumbar or dorso-lumbar regions and is not extensive, Sayre's plaster of Paris jacket, put on while the patient is suspended from the tripod, may act fairly well ; when a removable apparatus is desired, a poroplastic jacket may be substituted. These jackets are not, however, so efficient as the various forms of ' braces,' and should only be used when the latter cannot be obtained. Braces.—The idea that the thora.x should be lifted up and supported by a jacket taking its bearing from the pelvis is quite wrong, and in practice it is found that jackets are inefficient and useless except in cases in which recovery is practically complete. It must be remembered that the articular processes, the laminae, the spines, and their ligaments, remain intact although the bodies of the vertebrae are destroyed, and that the upper part of the spine falls forward and does not descend bodily; the object of a proper apparatus therefore is not to push up the upper part of the trunk as a whole, but to prevent the upper part of the spine from bending forwards on the pivot formed by the articular processes, etc., and thus crushing the softened bodies together. The principle of the brace is to place a bar on each side of the spine behind, having a fixed point at the pelvis and a fulcrum at the seat of the disease, and then by an apron over the front of the thorax to pull back the upper part of the spine to these bars. Taylor's Brace.—We may quote the description of Taylor's brace from Bradford and Lovett's ' Orthopaedic Surgery ' : 'In the first place, a tracing of the back is made. This is done as follows : The patient lies upon a hard surface, and a strip of flexible metal (lead, or a mixture of lead and zinc), strong enough to retain its position and pliable enough to be readily bent, is laid upon the back, from the neck to the sacrum, so as to accurately fit the lines of curve, presented by the spinal column. The lead is removed, laid on its side upon a piece of stiff cardboard, and the inner outline traced. . . . The simplest antero-posterior apparatus consists of two uprights of annealed steel three-eights or one-half of an inch in width, and thick enough to be rigid. The gauge numbers of the steel as to thickness should be eight to twelve. These uprights should reach from just above the posterior superior iliac spines to about the level of the second dorsal vertebra. The uprights are joined together Fig. 125. — Phelps's Box. The splint is here shown without the pads; in the next figure it is shown in use. The holes in the foot-pieces and the slit in the upper end of the splint, through which ex- tension and counter-e.xten- sion can be made if desired, are seen here, as are also the hollows in the sides of the box over which the child's arms can lie.