DISEASES OF THE KNEE-JOINT large mass of wool and an ordinary bandage, is applied to the joint. The patient may be allowed to walk and massage should be employed daily. When, however, the inflammatory attack is more acute, the indica- tions are, firstly, to subdue the inflammation as rapidly as possible ; and, secondly, to prevent adhesions forming in the joint afterwards. Rest and elevation of the limb are the first essentials. The patient should be con- fined to bed, with the limb upon a suitable splint and somewhat elevated. The knee should be kept as straight as possible so long as the position does not cause pain ; it will generally be necessary to allow a little flexion at first, as the fully extended position is almost intolerable if there is much distension. The best apparatus is a Maclntyre's splint sHghtly bent at the knee and suitably padded, or a trough of Gooch's splinting with a considerable amount of padding behind the knee in the first instance ; this can be gradually reduced as the swelling subsides, until finally the limb is brought straight. Amongst local applications, hot fomentations are probably most satis- factory; they may be applied in the following manner so as to avoid constantly fitting the limb out of the spUnt on account of the padding becoming wet. After the splint has been padded, but before it is put on, a broad piece of mackintosh is placed over the padding opposite the popliteal space, sufficiently long to fold around the limb, and reaching from about the middle of the thigh to the middle of the leg. The limb is now placed upon the splint, which is fastened on by means of straps or bandages, leaving the knee uncovered ; the mackintosh is then turned aside, the fomentations laid in place over the front of the knee, and the mackintosh folded over them. A large mass of wool is put on over all and secured by a bandage. Hot fomentations are, on the whole, better and more soothing than ice-bags or the evaporating lotions so commonly employed. They should be changed every two or three hours or as soon as they get cold. If the acuteness of the symptoms does not subside, aspiration of the joint, repeated more than once if necessary, may be employed ; this relieves the tension in the joint and thus at once diminishes the in- flammation and pain. The aspiration will also show whether the fluid is purulent or not. Sometimes the eftusion is so thick that it will not run through the needle; hence it is well to use a large-sized needle or cannula. On account of the severity of the pain it is often advisable to give the patient an anaesthetic when performing the aspiration. In some cases beginning without any injury, the symptoms are most acute, the temperature high, and the pain so severe that the case is apparently one of infective arthritis; and yet on opening the joint there is no pus but simply coagulated lymph, and the most careful examina- tion by the microscope and by cultivation fails to reveal any micro- organisms. Under such circumstances the symptoms are often so acute