467 TUMOURS are sutured together there will be a slight projection upwards of the free edge of the lip (see Fig. 206) ; the contraction of tlie scar will eventually obliterate this. In the case of small cancers of the lip, especially those commencing on the cutaneous margin, this operation, if carefully performed, is often very satisfactory ; if recurrence takes place it is usually in the glands in the submaxillary region, but it very seldom occurs along the course of the lymphatic vessels leading from the primary growth to the glands. This is a remarkable point in all epitheliomata of the skin ; for example, in epithelioma of the leg, recurrence after amputation is usually in the glands of the groin, and practically never in the lymphatic vessels of the thigh. This is important, because if it were necessary to take away the lymphatic vessels intervening between the primary disease and the glands, as is the case in epitheliomata of the mucous membrane or in cancer of the breast, the operation described above would not be sufficient, Fig. 206.—iNCisiofJS for the removal of a small Epithelioma of the Lower Lip. The concave limbs of the incisions when brought together give a slight projection on the free margin of the lip, which is obliterated by the contraction of the scar. and the greater part of the chin as well as the lip would have to be removed. Indeed Mr. Lenthal Cheatle has introduced an operation on those lines in which the incisions, instead of converging towards the chin, diverge so as to include the lymphatic vessels ; a plastic operation is necessary to fill the gap. For the reasons given above, this seems to be unnecessary. If the greater part of the lower lip has to be removed, the incisions should be carried wide of the growth down to the point of the chin, and should be straight and not concave as described above. One of the best forms of plastic operation is to continue the incisions beneath the jaw, ending in a curve which reaches up nearly to the angle of the bone on each side (see Fig. 222). The flaps thus formed must be dissected up on each side, and in front as much of the mucous membrane must be taken up as possible. The plastic operations on the lips are fully described on p. 491. In early and very small cancers of the lip, and in cases in which the H H 2