304 AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE firmly adjusted, the box may be tilted up so that the patient may look out of a window, etc. Defaecation and micturition are performed without any disturbance. By undoing the bandages, the front, sides, and limbs of the child are easily washed without moving him, and when it is necessary to wash the back the apparatus is turned upside down on a bed, the bandages undone, and the splint lifted off the child. He is replaced in the reverse manner, and not by lifting him into the box. Children should be kept in this apparatus for at least two or three years.' The whole apparatus with mattresses costs from 15s. to 20s. and is a most valuable one ; in private practice the boxes can be made more elegant by having the sides of strong wicker-work, the bottom remaining wood. Thomas's double splint.—An apparatus in some ways more convenient, but by no means so efficient, is a Thomas's double splint, which is provided with a pelvic band and a head-rest, the interval between the two upright bars from the buttocks upwards being filled in with strong canvas. Jackets and braces.—When the disease is in the lumbar, dorso- lumbar, or the cervical region in adults, it may be treated from the first with spinal supports, but it is better, if possible, to employ absolute recumbency with double extension for six to nine months in the first instance. With perfect recumbency and extension, the inflammatory material will become organised and, to some extent, ossified in a few months, and a suitable apparatus may then be applied. This may take the form of plaster or poroplastic jackets, or, still better, spinal braces. Jackets.—In the case of children, after recovery has taken place, a light poroplastic jacket worn for a few weeks gives a feeling of security and prevents too sudden use of the spine, and is, therefore, of some advantage ; but at an earlier stage, as a support for the spine Fig. ij).—Tin; Pi astiir ok Paris Jacket finished. This is tlic same ciiild as sliown in the preceding figure. The jacket is trimmed away above and below, and the large abdominal window to allow of free breath- ing and feeding has been cut out. (From a pJwlograph by Mr. Gauvain.)