AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD 472 condition must be adopted first (see Vol. IL p. 127). The face should be wrapped up and kept from exposure to cold or draughts, while quinine (in five-grain doses four times a day) or liquor arsenicalis (in doses of three to five minims cautiously increased up to twelve or more) should be administered. Antipyrin (in ten- to twenty-grain doses) is useful during the severe paroxysms ; in some instances methylene blue (in three-grain pills) seems to exercise a specific action. Among the various other drugs employed are gelsemium and butyl chloral hydrate. As local applications, menthol or linimentuni terebinth, aceticum sometimes gives relief. The diet should be light but nourishing. This part of the treatment, however, is within the province of the physician, and for further details a treatise on medicine should be consulted. Should no improvement take place after a prolonged trial of these or similar remedies, and should the patient's condition become unbearable, the propriety of undertaking some surgical measure for the relief of the pain must be considered. Operative Methods.—The surgical measures employed for this affection fall into three categories ;— (i) Injection of substances into the nerves ; that most commonly used is alcohol. (2) Neurectomy of the individual nerves. (3) Removal of the Gasserian ganglion. Of these, extirpation of the Gasserian ganglion is the most certain method, and, if the patient's condition permits, it should certainly be undertaken, whenever more than one branch of the nerve is involved ; in these cases the ganglion is diseased, and it is only waste of time to adopt any minor operation. Even when the disease is limited to one branch, the Gasserian ganglion should be removed if other methods fail. The operation is, however, a severe one, though much less dangerous now than when it was first introduced and, apart from its severity, it has considerable disadvantages. In the first place, the motor root of the trigeminal nerve is usually divided in the course of the operation, and, as a consequence, paralysis of the muscles of mastication on the affected side occurs. In the second place, there is considerable risk of trophic changes in the cornea which may lead to complete destruction of the eye. On account of these disadvantages of the radical operation, it is well to resort to one of the other two methods in the first instance, especially when the pain is limited to one branch, and to reserve the operation on the Gasserian ganglion until their failure is certain. Division and removal of portions of the various branches was frequently performed at one time, but, of late, these operations have been replaced to a considerable extent by injections of alcohol, either into the large nerve trunks as they emerge from the base of the skull, or into their peripheral portions as they pass out of the foramina on the face. Recently, the Gasserian ganglion itself has been successfully injected with alcohol through the foramen