AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD 326 lotion until a thick paste is formed. If the hair is first thoroughly disinfected with strong mixture and then a quantity of this paste is rubbed into it, it practically becomes an antiseptic dressing. At the end of the third day the drainage tube can generally be left out and satisfactory healing will usually be obtained. 3. To prevent infection.—When there is a wound of the scalp in the vicinit}^ of the haematoma, it should be treated with as much care as an ordinary scalp wound (see p. 328), even though it be a mere abrasion, otherwise violent and dangerous suppuration may occur. Should the hsematoma suppurate, it must be freely opened and drained at its most dependent point, aU breaking down blood-clot being removed. Should the patient strongly object to the necessary shaving, the scalp must be thoroughly disinfected, and the hair impregnated with the double cyanide of mercury and zinc paste referred to above. THE SUB-PERICRANIAL HEMATOMA. This form of haematoma occurs most frequently in young children, and is not uncommon at birth ; in that case it may be due to compres- FiG. 138.—^The Sub-pericranial H.EMATOMA. The hematoma is shown diagram- matically between (c) the pericranium and (d) the vault of the sliull. a, is the sl<in, and !), the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis muscle. sion of the foetal head, with consequent fracture of the external table of the parietal or frontal bone and rupture of the veins of the diploe. It is most commonly situated over the parietal bone. The extravasation is usually limited by the sutures and does not extend beyond the particular bone over which it first occurred. The characters of these extravasations, especially when absorption fails and a true blood-cyst forms, are the same as those already described in the sub-aponeurotic form, and it is especially in these cases that a mistake in the diagnosis between a blood-cyst and a depressed fracture takes place. The absence of signs of compression when the bone in the centre of the swelhng is pressed upon imphes that the case is one of sub-pericranial hsematoma rather than of depressed fracture.