476 AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD emerging from the notch and lying upon the periosteum. It is care- fully separated from the artery, picked up and cut off flush with the foramen, pulled into the wound as forcibly as possible, and as much of it removed as can be reached. The small scar left will be hidden by the eyebrow, and for this reason the incision recommended above is better than the vertical one sometimes employed, which has the disadvantage of dividing the fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum and sometimes its nerve-supply, besides leaving a noticeable scar. The vertical incision no doubt renders the nerve more accessible, but, if the latter be pulled upon in the manner been rendered aseptic, it may be exposed through an incision, an inch long, carried along the natural fold of the cheek and slightly oblique from above downwards and outwards. Its centre should be over the infra-orbital foramen, which is a quarter of an inch below the orbital margin of the maxilla in a line from the supra-orbital notch to the interval between the bicuspid teeth. The skin and fat and a portion of the origin of the zygomaticus major muscle are divided, the fibres of the orbicularis palpe- brarum which conie into view above are pulled aside, and the levator labii superioris is detached from the upper jaw. The nerve will then be seen emerging from the infra-orbital foramen and should be pulled as far out of the infra-orbital canal as possible ; as much as can be reached should be resected. There is generally free oozing from the wound. recommended, enough is brought into view to render subsequent union very improbable. Fig. 212.—^The Incisions for Neurectomy of THE First and Second Divisions of the Fifth Nerve, a, Incision for supra-orbital neurectomy; b, incision for infra-orbital neurectomy ; c, incision for ablation of Meckel's ganglion. Of the Second Division. — When the second division of the fifth nerve is the seat of the disease, the pain may be referred to the teeth of the upper jaw, i.e. along the course of the superior maxillary nerve, or to the side of the nose, the upper lip and the infra-orbital region along the infra-orbital nerve. In the latter case, the appro- priate treatment is to divide the infra-orbital nerve, whilst in the former the trunk of the second division of the fifth, along with Meckel's ganglion, will require ablation. Infra-orbital neurectomy. —• The infra-orbital nerve is easily reached. After the parts have