PLASTIC SURGERY 493 and then horizontally along the reflection of the mucous membrane on to the gum. When fully liberated, these flaps can be made to slide in, so that the sides of the original V-shaped incision meet and are sutured in the middle line. The nuicous membrane is then united to the skin along the upper edge of the flap so as to form the free border of the newly-made lower lip, and the rest of the wound is closed by sutures (see Fig. 223, B), the skin on the outer side of the incisions being undermined, so as to allow it to be brought into position easily. In some ways this operation is better than the preceding one. The lip has less tendency to drop, and there is a better supply of mucous membrane. The chief disadvantages are the division of the branches of the facial nerve going to the flap, the large scar on the cheek, and the less perfect blood-supply ; the blood- supply is, however, usually satisfactory if the base of tlie flap is sufficiently broad. The choice between the two methods will depend very much on the circmustances of the case and on the shape of the patient's face ; perhaps the second method will be most often chosen. In all of these cases, however, there always remains a liability to imperfect closure of the lips and dribbling of saliva. EVERSION OR ECTROPION OF THE LIPS. Sometimes there is eversion of one of the lips as a result of injury or disease, the red line of the lip being drawn down and the mucous membrane freely exposed. When the lower lip is affected, the condition may be remedied in the following manner (see Fig. 224) : An incision is carried a little below the lower edge of the everted red line, and the parts separated sufficiently to allow the mucous surface to be brought into its proper position ; this will leave an oval gap below the lip. By carrying a vertical incision downwards from the middle of the transverse incision and curving it away to each side when it reaches the chin, flaps of skin and fat can be detached and brought up so as to fih up this gap and keep the lip in position. When only one side of the lip is affected, the elliptical gap left after freeing the margin of the lip may be filled by a flap turned in from the cheek, in the same manner as ectropion of the lower eyelid is remedied (seep. 504). RESTORATION OF THE UPPER LIP When only the central portion of the lip has to be removed, this is carried out on lines similar to those recommended for cancer of the lower lip (seep. 491). Whenthe middle of the upper lip has to be taken away up to the nostril, the part renuiining on each side should be freely separated from the jaws and incisions continued upwards around each ala of the nose. A crescentic portion of skin is then removed opposite each ala (see Fig 225), and the two sides of the lip can be brought together and the