27 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER of the bone directly, and to make it re-enter tlie joint through the rent in the capsule, which can then be sewn up with hne catgut. The chief obstacle to the return of the head is the subscapularis tendon, but it is usually possible to hook this aside when the parts have been exposed. After the reduction has been effected, the rent in the capsule closed, and any torn structures sutured, the fracture of the humerus should be secured by some mechanical means (see Vol. II. p. 305). The wound is then stitched up without a drainage-tube, after suture of the deep fascia, and the arm is put up as for fracture of the upper end of the humerus (see Vol. II. P- 321). As soon as the wound has healed, passive motion must be begun, so as to prevent adhe- sions in the joint. There is not much fear of disturbing the fracture, and a good re- sult should be obtained when the fracture is through the surgical neck. Weakness of the deltoid may persist for some time without definite evidence of injury to the cir- cumflex ; in these cases the nerve may have been bruised, or possibly it may be a re- flex trophic disturbance, but power is usually recovered within three months provided that the nerve has not been divided. When, however, the anato- mical neck is the seat of the fracture, the prospects of a satisfactory result are not so good. The rounded head of the bone may be detached, and will probably not unite to the shaft, even though it be fastened to it. The best result will often be obtained by removing the loose portion and smoothing off any rough surface left, and in that case it is well to interpose some soft tissues between the end of the humerus and the glenoid cavity (see p. 153). The arm is brought into position, the rent in the capsule closed, and the wound sutured. Passive movement should be carried out from the first, as there is now no fracture to be considered, the only object being to obtain free mobility of the joint : in fact, the Fig. 16.—Dislocation of the Shoulder Combined WITH Fracture of the Greater Tuberosity. The parts have been exposed by the incision shown in the previous figure, p., Fractured surface of head of humerus ; b, fractured surface of greater tuberosity; c, glenoid surface of scapula ; d, long head of the biceps.