3o8 AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE ' A useful addition in certain cases of dorsal caries is found in the use of Dr. Taylor's chest-piece. By means of hard rubber pads a definite counterpoint of pres- sure is furnished at the upper part of the chest which keeps the brace closely against the back. The pads of the chest- piece may be made of hard rubber and fit in below the clavicles where they cause no discomfort, and restrict the chest movements less than the apron, besides affording more definite support. ' The brace should be worn day and night, and removed daily that the back may be bathed. While the brace is On no account Fic. 129.—PoROPLASTic Collars for Spinal Disease. ^ is a good form of apparatus, taking its support from the pelvis aud enclosing tlie entire thorax. It is easily seen that B is a faulty form, as it allows a certain amount of movement of the entire apparatus, which rests upon the shoulders. off, the patient should lie on the face or the back should he sit erect. The back after being washed should be rubbed with alcohol and then powdered with face-powder, corn-starch, or fuUer's-earth. The brace should then be applied and buckled tightly in place. ' Chafing of the back is sometimes unavoid- able in summer. When a severe chafed spot forms, the brace must be removed for the time, and the child lie fiat in bed till the ulcer heals.' Collars.—When the disease affects the cer- vical region and the patient is allowed to walk about, the best arrangement is a collar supported from the pelvis and shoulders, and grasping the head so as to fix and support it. There are several kinds of collars which act very well; a very simple and efficient one can be made of poroplastic material. The essential basis of support should be the pelvis (see Fig. 129) ; a poroplastic jacket should extend upwards from a pelvic band, grasping the thorax, covering the shoulders, and expanding above to receive the head. Flexion of the cervical spine is thus effectually prevented, which is not the case when the apparatus rests on the shoulders alone or even when it is fixed round the thorax. Another very good arrangement is to attach a steel ring to a Taylor's brace by an upright Fig. 130.—^Taylor's Brace as modified for use in cer- VICAL Spinal Disease. This is the ordinary brace, to which is added the metal ring sup- porting the chin which is fi.\ed to an upward prolongation of the spinal support. {After Bradford and Lovdl.)