529 CLEFT PALATE as the 'loop method.' The stitches are introduced by special long- handled needles (see Fig. 256) bent at varying angles and curves ; the eye of the needle is near tlie point and it is flattened from side to side so that the puncture is at right angles to the edge of the cleft, and when the suture is tightened, the aperture through which it passes is some- what diminished. A needle is threaded with a long piece of fine silk, the two ends being of equal length, and is inserted about an eighth of an inch from the margin of the cleft ; it should pass through the whole thickness of the flap. It is well to insert the first stitch at the junction of the soft with the hard palate so as to insure the exact apposition of the two halves. When the needle has penetrated the flap, the loop of silk in the eye is caught in a pair of forceps or a sharp hook and the needle withdrawn, leaving the loop emerging from the upper surface of the flap (see Fig. 257). A needle ciu-ved in the opposite direc- tion and threaded with fine silkworm-gut, is then passed through the other flap at a corresponding point. The end of the gut is seized with forceps, unthreaded from the eye of the needle and the latter withdrawn. The free end of the gut is brought out into the cleft, and then passed into the silk loop already introduced through the oppo- site side; by traction upon the free ends of the latter the silkworm-gut suture is drawn through the opposite flap 1 (see Fig. 257, c). Both ends of the stitch are now picked up by a pair of forceps, and left untied until all the sutures are in position. It is unnecessary to grasp the edge of the flaps in introducing these stitches; indeed, it is desirable not to do so on accoimt of the risk of bruising. If the edge of the flap is put on the stretch by pulhng on the uvula, a sharp needle can be stabbed through the palate with ease. The next stitch is inserted about the middle of the hard palate, and then the remaining stitches in the hard Fig. 255.—Detaching the Soft trom the Hard Palate in Stafhvloraphy. a, pared edges of cleft in the liard palate ; b, curved scissors—one blade above and one below the aponeurosis joining the soft to the hard palate; f, lateral incision for raising the muco-periosteal flap from the liard palate ; d, pared edge of the soft palate. ' To permit of this being done, the eye of the palate needle must be large enough to take fairly strong silkworm-gut. Should such a needle not be available, the second method, indicated in Fig. 258—i.e. the use of two silk loops—must be adopted.