158 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS will not have improved and will often be considerably worse. An X-ray photograph may be taken, but a negative result does not necessarily exclude tuberculosis. INFECTIVE ARTHRITIS. Acute or sub-acute inflammation of the hip-joint occurs in various infective diseases, such as typhoid fever, pyaemia, and osteo-myelitis of the upper end of the femur. It is also caused by the pneumococcus or the gonococcus. Infection due to the latter organism differs from the other forms, in that it does not as a rule end in the formation of pus. ACUTE SEPTIC ARTHRITIS of the hip most frequently occurs in connection with acute epiphj^sitis of the upper end of the femur. The infection of the joint is a necessary consequence of the anatomical conditions of the part, and the symptoms are extremely grave and acute. The patient is usually seized with sudden pain in the hip, rigors are common, and the typhoid condition rapidly supervenes ; there is marked swelling about the joint, and intense pain on movement or pressure. Necrosis and separation of the head of the bone are very likel}^ to occur, and the pus frequently burrows widely in the surrounding tissues. Acute septic arthritis also occurs in the course of a pyaemia, and curiously enough, in some cases which recover, the inflammation mav subside without any great destruction of the joint. Treatment.—Free incisions should be made into the joint as soon as possible ; the joint is most conveniently reached through the anterior incision already described (see p. 62). The pus is evacuated, the arti- cular cavity flushed out with sterilised normal saline solution and the condition of the neck of the femur examined. Should the case be one of acute epiphysitis, the best plan is to remove the head and neck of the bone. In every case, counter-openings for drainage should be made through the posterior part of the joint. This can readily be done by pushing a long stout pair of dressing forceps through the posterior part of the capsule from the anterior wound, and making them project in the buttock as close as possible to the trochanter. The skin is then incised over the tip of the forceps, which are pushed through, the blades expanded so as to enlarge the opening, and made to grasp the end of the drainage tube (No. 18), which is then pulled into the joint (see Fig. 48). If the head of the bone has been removed, undiluted carbolic acid should be apphed freely to the cut osseous surface. The great danger of remov- ing the head of the bone is that the organisms (which are extremely virulent) may spread into the cut surface and set up an acute osteo-myelitis of the upper end of the femur ; the saturation of the bone section with undiluted carbolic acid is of extreme importance as a preventive. It gives time for cellular invasion of the superficial cancellous spaces to