AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 104 even end in suppuration. It is possible that some of these cases are gonococcal in origin, but others are not, and are probably due to a septic condition complicating the ordinary leucorrhoea. TREATMENT.—The most important point is to ascertain the cause of the leucorrhoea and to treat that. As soon as the cause has been removed, the joint affection subsides rapidly. Its disappearance may be hastened by the use of appropriate local treatment, similar to that employed for mild cases of gonococcal arthritis. PNEUMOCOCCAL ARTHRITIS. This variety of arthritis is not at all uncommon in children, and adults may also be affected. It may occur independently of pneumonia or it may follow or accompany that disease. The knee-joint is most frequently affected, but any joint and more than one joint may be in- volved. The onset may be slow or acute, and clinically the local condition of the joint is like that of septic arthritis, though the symptoms as a rule are less severe. The true nature of the infecting organism is easily demonstrated in films of the pus or by making a culture of the joint fluid. TREATMENT.—If the joint is opened and drained whilst the disease is in its early stages, complete restoration of function may follow. In some cases, aspiration and washing out the joint cavity with saline solution may be sufficient. At a later stage, incisions must be made as in the case of septic arthritis (see p. 94), though they need not be so large. It is very important in the after-treatment to employ careful aseptic precautions and so prevent the access of other micro-organisms, otherwise prolonged suppuration and disorganisation of the joint will occur. OTHER FORMS OF INFECTIVE ARTHRITIS. Infective arthritis may occur in acute constitutional diseases— such as smallpox, scarlet or typhoid fever. A similar condition may occur in dysentery, and is common in pyaemia or septicaemia. In the latter there is no difficulty in understanding how the affection occurs, but its relation to the specific fevers is not 3^et quite clear. The inflammation is usually acute or sub-acute, and it does not necessarily end in suppuration, except in the pyemic cases. In the non-suppurative form the question arises whether the disease is really set up by the specific organisms producing the fever, or by other organisms which have got into the blood. The problem is similar to that in gonorrhoeal. rheumatism, and the symptoms are closely allied. The disease may be confined to one joint, but not uncommonly several joints are affected. It resembles gonococcal arthritis, moreover, in that it does not exhibit the typical migratory character of ordinary acute rheumatism, and it not infrequently passes into a condition of chronic effusion into the joint.