CLEFT PALATE 539 if this happens, the point of the needle must be moved one way or other, so as to damage them as httle as possible. As soon as the eye of the needle is seen in the cleft, the loop of silk is seized and held whilst the needle is withdrawn. There will thus be a loop of silk lying in the track of the needle, the free ends of the loop being allowed to hang out of the corners of the mouth, with a pair of pressure forceps holding them. By using a ' reverse needle,' another loop of silk is passed in precisely the same wa}^ through the other maxilla, and exactly opposite the first silk loop. A short distance in front of these loops, a second silk loop is passed on each side, and on the longer side of the cleft (if it is a unilateral one) or on one side only if the cleft is bilateral, a third loop of silk is placed still further forwards, so that the actual loop is in the anterior part of the cleft. Refer- ence to Fig. 265 will show the exact positions of these loops. There will thus be in the cleft three loops of silk on one side, and two loops on the other, and the free ends of each loop hang out of the mouth. The two posterior loops are interlocked and, by making traction on the free ends of one of them, the other loop is withdrawn, so as to occupy its position. The same manoeuvre is carried out with the next pair of loops, and there will then be lying across the cleft, but above the level of the palate, four silk threads, each pair having a loop outside one ah'eolus, and the free ends outside the other alveolus (see Fig. 265, C). The anterior loop of silk up to this stage has been left lying in the cleft, and has not been touched since it was placed in position. A long piece of silver wire bent into a V-shape, the two limbs being equal in length, is then placed in each of the two posterior loops of silk (see Fig. 265, D). By traction on the free ends of the silk, the wire comes to lie in the track of the silk. The loop of each wire is divided, and there will therefore be four wires in the place of the two loops of silk. The most anterior wire is \\ithdrawn from the side which is shortest, till its end appears in the cleft. This end is then seized bent into a V-shape, and placed in the loop of silk lying in the cleft (see Fig. 266, E). By traction on the silk, the wire is carried across the cleft from one alveolus to the other (see Fig. 266, F), and there will thus be four wires penetrating the alveolus on one side, through two apertures in the bone, and, on the other, through three apertures. The next step is to take two leaden plates of the same thickness as the silver wire, and cut .them of such a size that they will take the wires and lie easily on the outer surface of each alveolus. One plate will require to have three holes punched in it, and the other two holes, so that the wires may pass through them. The jilates are then placed in position, and the superior maxills are gently yet firmly pressed together by the thumb and fingers applied to their outer aspects. As the bones approximate, ' the slack ' in the wires is taken up by twisting the ends round one another, first on one side, and then on the other. The wires must never be used to force the bones together—their purpose is to hold them in })osition after they have been approximated by