113 TUBERCULOSIS 3. Cases of empyema tuberculosum and hydrops tuberculosus. 4. Cases in which tlie tuberculous deposit has burst into the joint and has produced sudden infection of it. 5. Cases of general synovial thickening without marked bone disease. 6. Cases in which there are unopened abscesses around the joint. 7. Cases in which these abscesses have burst and have left sinuses. 8. Cases accompanied by anchylosis and deformity, with or without sinuses. In connection with the treatment, it is always necessary to ascertain whether there is tuberculosis elsewhere—«'.<,'., in the lungs, glands, or ab- domen. Before referring to the special treatment of the types enumerated above, it will save repetition to give a brief description of the methods of treatment apphcable to tuberculous disease of joints in general. GENERAL TREATMENT.—Climatic—The patient should be placed under the best possible hygienic conditions. He should have plenty of fresh air, and if possible should be sent into the country, the particular place depending largely upon the idiosyncrasies of the individual. It is tne rule to send these patients to the seaside, but it must be remembered that some do much better in a dry inland spot than at the seaside, and, therefore, before deciding where the patient is to go, it is essential to ascertain, if possible, from which of these localities he is likely to derive most benefit. The patient's taste should be consulted as far as possible—the more contented he is, the better for his general health. Broadly speaking, robust patients, with a local lesion, which does not prevent them from walking, do best at a bracing place. For a frail patient who cannot walk, a warm place is better—at any rate, until his general condition has improved. For those who are best suited by the seaside in a cool and bracing climate, any of the ordinary English watering-places on the East Coast from Deal to Cromer, or on the Yorkshire coast, may be recommended. As a rule, patients are sent to Margate, but there is no particular virtue in that resort over many other places upon the East Coast. For patients who do well at the seaside, but who require a warmer chmate, there are various suitable resorts on the South Coast from Folkestone to Bourne- mouth. For a patient desiring a change of scene abroad, the coast of France, south of Boulogne, has a well-established rejoutation. Towns such as Berck-Plage, where there are several large hospitals for the treatment of surgical tuberculosis, are laid out for the benefit of these patients. Suitable chalets provided with verandas may be rented, and invalid requirements of all sorts are readily obtainable. For those who do best in an inland bracing atmosphere, the Yorkshire moors are excellent; whilst for others, who require a somewhat warmer climate, the higher parts of Devonshire are suitable. The patient should be kept out of doors as much as possible, and movement of, or pressure on, the affected joint must be avoided. The III. I