361 TUBERCULOSIS When iuberculoHS disease affects the vault of the ci'anium the operative measures must be on the Hues ah'eady laid down for the treatment of tuberculous disease of bones in general (see Vol. II.). The affected area should be freely exposed, either by a flap carried wide of the diseased region in cases in which there is no external opening, or by excision of any tuberculous ulcer which may be present and enlargement of the wound. The periosteum over the diseased area should not be turned down with the flap, but must be left in situ and removed with the bone ; all caseating material or granulation tissue between the scalp and the bone should be carefully dissected away. The whole area of the skull affected should then be cut away, either with a trephine or by any other suitable means, and in the majority of cases it is well to remove the whole thickness of the bone and exjoose the dura mater. This should be done even though large portions may require removal, otherwise there is considerable risk of extension of the disease. When the dura mater is healthy it should not be opened. The raw bone surface left should be touched with undiluted carbolic acid and the wound closed. The dura mater, if affected, should be cut away, and any commencing disease in the underlying membranes should be removed. The removal of the dura entails a serious risk of hernia cerebri, but, if the wound be aseptic, this can generally be prevented, while it is of paramount importance to remove the whole of the tuberculous disease. The treat- ment of hernia cerebri is described on p. 407. With the view of obviating the risks of hernia in cases in which the skin is not involved, it is well to turn down an exceptionally large flap so as to carry the line of incision in the scalp well away from the opening in the bone, so that if the brain does protrude, the hernia will be prevented from increasing to any great extent by the pressure of the flap. When tuberculous disease affects the base of the skull, the removal of the tuberculous tissue cannot, as a rale, be complete. When the disease occurs in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, it manifests itself as a middle-ear affection with discharge from the ear, which is usually foul and caseous, and it may be followed by disease of the antrum and all its sequelae. The treatment consists in opening up the antrum and the tympanic cavity freely and clearing away the tuberculous material and any carious bone within reach. A considerable area of bone may be taken away if the surgeon bears in mind the anatomical relations of the part, more especially the situation of the lateral sinus and the facial nerve ; it is always well to lay the antrum, the tympanic space, and the external meatus into one large cavity. This should be packed with gauze until its wall has become covered with granulations. The patient should be put under the best possible hygienic conditions, and sent to the country after the wound has healed. Tubercuhn may be given.