DISLOCATION AND FRACTURE-DISLOCATION because the displacement may be reproduced and aggravate the damage already present. The symptoms of fracture of the spine are always sufificiently clear to render such a course as unnecessary as it is dangerous, and, if required, the condition can be shown by a radiogram. Removal of the patieni.—It sometimes falls to the lot of the surgeon to be called to a case of fractured spine, while the patient is still lying on the spot at which he received the injury ; he then becomes responsible for the patient's removal, which must be done with the utmost care and with the aid of intelhgent assistants. The patient should be laid flat upon the ground or floor, without anything beneath his head, and all attempts at movement must be delayed until a suitable stretcher or litter is ready for him. This should be firm and unyielding, a shutter or door being as useful as anything if a stretcher cannot be obtained ; indeed, in any case it is a good plan to place a narrow shutter or a wide plank of suitable length beneath the patient, and to lift him on to the stretcher on this. A board of this kind can be readily slipped between the patient and the floor without raising him more than an inch or so, and it prevents him from sinking down in the stretcher and thus increasing the deformity. In raising the patient it is very important to remember that a certain amount of extension should be made. At least, four assistants are required, two of whom take the lower extremities, while the other two grasp the thorax in cases of fracture of the dorso- lumbar region or the head in fractures higher up ; in the latter case two more are required to support the trunk. As the patient is raised from the ground the assistants make extension. The surgeon at the same time places his hand beneath the spine and keeps it as horizontal as possible. The board or shutter is then rapidly slipped beneath the patient immediately there is room for it, and upon this he can be lifted and carried home, or the entire apparatus may be placed upon a stretcher. It is well, if possible, to encircle the patient and the stretcher in a sheet, and to bandage the arms to the sides so as to prevent aU movement. The stretcher should in all cases be carried by hand so as to prevent the jolting which wheeled carriages entail, and, as is well known, the stretcher bearers at the two ends should not walk in step. When the patient reaches his home or the hospital, he should not be disturbed until the bed has been prepared for his reception ; fracture- boards should be placed upon the bed-frame and over them a horse- hair mattress, consisting of three parts, the central one {i.e. that beneath the sacrum) being again subdivided vertically into two lateral halves ; each of the segments should have a separate sheet (see Fig. 115). A water-bed is not suitable at this stage. The initial shock, although sometimes severe, is surprisingly slight in the majority of cases. If it is marked, plenty of hot blankets should be piled over the patient and stimulants administered. It must be remembered that the lower ex- tremities are anaesthetic, and therefore no hot bottles must come in III. T