AFFECTIONS OF THE LIPS 462 TREATMENT.—-The lips should be kept moist with glycerine jelly, and a piece of goldbeater's skin should be placed over the fissure to protect it from irritation. The fissure generally heals quickly under these circumstances. HYPERTROPHY OF THE LIPS. In weakly children of the tuberculous type, it is not at all uncommon to meet with considerable thickening and overgrowth of the lips— especially the upper—with eversion of the mucous membrane. This is usually due to chronic inflammation, especially of the lymphatic vessels, following cracks and fissures of the lip. It may also follow the excoriation of the skin of the upper lip, which occurs in children suffering from chronic coryza. Although it is commonly met with in tuberculous children, there is no evidence of any actual deposit of tuberculous material. TREATMENT.—The first point is to treat the excoriation and cracks so as to obtain healing as quickly as possible {vide supra). When the fissure is deep, and has existed for some time, it may be advisable to excise it and bring the edges together with fine catgut stitches. The general condition of the patient must also be attended to, the food should be light and nourishing, and the child should be placed in good hygienic surroundings. As regards medicines, cod-liver oil and iron are often of great value. In some cases the thickening of the lip may be so marked and perma- nent that the surgeon is called upon to remedy the deformity. This is done by excising a horizontal strip of the mucous membrane and sub- mucous tissue from the inner surface of the lip. An elliptical incision is made through the mucous membrane, enclosing a piece varying in breadth according to the amount of deformity. The upper border of the incision should run parallel to the red line, enough of the mucous membrane being left between the two to represent the normal thickness of the lip. In depth the wound is made wedge-shaped, so that the piece excised resembles a segment of an orange, the outer surface of which corresponds to the mucous surface of the lip. The bleeding is usually slight and is readily arrested by torsion. The edges of the incision are brought together by two or three fine catgut stitches, and healing is rapid. TUBERCULOUS AFFECTIONS. Tuberculous ulcerations may be met with either on the mucous membrane or the skin, and may take the form of lupus or of the ordinary tuberculous ulcers. LUPUS. Lupus of the upper lip is usually an extension from disease of the nose or cheek. The treatment is discussed in Vol. II. p. 15.