AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD 350 is especially great, because the injured areas are inaccessible. The fractures are not necessarily limited to a single fossa of the skuU, but it is usual to divide them into fractures of the anterior, middle, or posterior fossa;, according to the region in which the greatest damage has occurred. The line of fracture most frequently iiins through the middle fossa, breaking the petrous bone at its weakest part, and usually opening into the middle ear ; from this point the fissure runs forwards and inwards across the sphenoid. In fractures of the anterior fossa the roof of the orbit gives way ; the line of fracture may run backwards into the middle fossa. In the posterior fossa, the fissure usually runs downwards behind the mastoid process. Much discussion has arisen as to the way in which these fractures are caused. They usually follow falls upon the vertex or blows upon the side of the head. The original view was that in falls upon A B B Fig. 150.—The ' Bursting ' Theory of Fractures of the Skull e.xemplified IN A Tennis-ball. The explanation is given in the text. the vertex the fracture of the base occurred by transmission of the violence through the arches of the skull down to the base ; this was called ' fracture by contre-coup.' It was, however, noticed that the fissures were not limited to the base, but extended up towards the vertex, and another view was suggested, viz. that fractures of the base were really direct continuations from fractures of the vault, and that, when the patient fell upon the vertex, a fissure was produced which radiated down- wards to the base of the skuU. While it is possible that fracture is produced in this way in a certain number of cases, this theory does not satisfac- torily account for the majority of the cases, and of late the elasticity of the skull has been looked on as the chief factor in its production. Take a tennis-ball (see Fig. 150) and mark two points, A and B, on it at opposite poles. Midway between these draw a line round the ball forming an equator, and on this mark a series of equidistant pairs of points, CD, CD', etc. Now if the ball be compressed between A and