515 HARE-LIP of hare-lip, whether alone or in conjunction with cleft palate, is the age at which the operation should be performed. It may be said that the sooner the operation for hare-lip is performed the better is the result both from the point of view of appearance and also of the development of the parts and the general nutrition of the child. Two points, however, must be taken into consideration in determining this question, namely, the strength of the child and its ability to stand the necessary loss of blood, and the presence of any septic condition about the mouth and nose, such as coryza, snuffles, or aphthous stomatitis. If the child is feeble, the loss of blood at the operation may be sufficient to cause a fatal result, and, apart from that, there is considerable liability to septic infection. As regards the second point, any septic condition of the mouth or nose is particularly pione to lead to septic inflammation of the wound, and thus endanger union. In the absence of these unfavourable conditions primary union almost invariably occurs, and therefore the age at which uncomplicated hare-lip may be operated upon depends, to a large extent, on the size of the gap. In simple cases the operation may be done a few weeks or even a few days after birth. If, on the other hand, the cleft is wide, extends up into the nostril, and entails a long operation and a free separation of the soft parts from the bone with considerable loss of blood, it may be advisable to delay the operation for some weeks, unless the child is losing ground from inability to take food properly. In severe forms, in which the cleft is wide and the whole depth of the lip and the palate are involved, there is considerable difficulty in feeding the child. In such cases, therefore, the sooner the operation is done the better, provided that the child is not emaciated. If it is, careful spoon-feeding must be persisted in until the general health is so much improved that the operation can be performed with a reasonable chance of success. The milk must be placed in the mouth in small quantities slowly and intermittently, and sufficient time allowed for the child to swaUow one spoonful before the next is given. In these cases—and especially when there is a double hare-lip, which is always accompanied by cleft palate—• it is of the greatest importance to unite the lip as soon as possible in order to remedy the severe deformity and thereby render the proper feeding of the child possible. When cleft palate complicates hare-lip, the question has to be considered whether the operations for uniting the hare-lip and the cleft palate should be done at the same time or separately. It is a generally accepted rule, and one with wliich we agree, that the hare-lip, at any rate, should be closed as soon as possible, whether the operation on the palate be deferred to a later period or not. This is advisable, because the development of the parts improves directly the lip is united, the cleft in the palate—■ and especially in the alveolus—tends to diminish, and the nutrition of the child becomes better. It is advised by some that the operation on the palate should precede L L 2