DISEASES OF THE HIP-JOINT i8i wedge of bone, it is best to do this in tlie neighbourhood of the junction of the neck with the trochanter ; this leaves a large surface for union, and is in quite an accessible region (see Fig. 68). The shape and the size of the wedge will depend upon the exact nature of the deformity. If there is mainly adduction, the base of the wedge must be directed outwards and upwards; if there is much inward rotation its base must be backwards. The bone is reached by an incision very closely resembling that for the anterior operation of excision of the hip (see Fig. 6g) ; it should be four or five inches in length. The incision is deepened, the muscles are pulled aside, and the junc- tion of the neck of the femur with the trochanter is exposed, no structures of importance being divided. The wedge is best removed by means of a chisel and hammer, and the amount of bone to be taken away must be accurately gauged. When the limb is brought into position, it will generally be found that the adductors require division, and this may be done close to their origin from the pubes ; any other tense bands should be similarly treated. After the limb has been brought into position, extension should be employed in the direction that the limb is intended finally to occupy—a weight of three or four pounds being generally sufficient. Besides this, the arrangement figured on p. 159 for preventing rotation should be used. A Liston's long splint should be fastened to the sound side, so as to prevent the patient from sitting up, and a divided mattress (see p. 167) is of great value. The patient should be kept in this position rmtil union has occurred, which will generally be in about six weeks, after which he may be fitted with a Thomas's splint, bent to correspond to the amount of abduction present ; he may then get about on crutches. In about three months from this time he may be provided with a high boot on the affected side and allowed to walk without crutches. In the other procedure the femur is saie^n across just beloiv the tro- chanters, and the limb is placed in its proper position. Some surgeons aim at a false joint ; others try to get anchylosis in good position. The latter seems the preferable course. Fig. 68.—E.xcisiom of a Wedge from THE Neck of the Femur in old Hip Disease. The wedge which is excised through the incision seen in Fig. 69, is made with its base upwards and outwards for the deformity liere shown, viz. flexion, adduction, and inward rotation. The wedge also requires to be made wider behind than in front, as shown by the dotted lines.