433 TUMOURS OF THE BRAIN marked ovit, the soft parts (including the pericranium) are retracted for about half an inch all round the incision, and then a half-inch trephine- hole is made at each of the angles of the exposed surface of the skull (see Fig. 187). From the upper holes as starting points, the flap of bone, which is roughly quadrilateral, is marked out. In the first place, the two upper holes are joined by a horizontal cut which thus forms the upper limit of the bone-flap. After trying many plans, we find it easiest to make this incision with the cutting-forceps, introduced by De Vilbiss (see Fig. 189), which are exceedingly powerful and enable the surgeon to cut a narrow track without damage to the dura mater, or undue loss of time. When the horizontal incision has been made, a vertical one is carried down on each side as far as the holes at the base of the flap; all that remains to be done then is to divide the base of the bone so that the entire flap, consisting of scalp and skull, can be turned downwards (see Fig. 188). The simplest plan is to insert a blunt instrument into the horizontal incision and beneath the upper edge of the bone-flap, and to lever it gently outwards ; the base of the bone-flap is thin and breaks with- out risk of fracturing the skull elsewhere. If there is any difficulty in effecting this, the base of the bone-flap may be narrowed a little by cutting inwards, and fracture will then occur quite easily. It is unneces- sary to take elaborate precautions by bevefling the bone to prevent the bone-flap from falling into the cranial cavity after it is replaced at the end of the operation ; the bone adheres firmly to the scalp and is kept in place by it. By adopting the above plan, there is no fear of the bone losing its vitality and requiring removal subsequently. Even should it be found necessary to enlarge the opening in the skull still further during the coiirse of the operation, the osteo-plastic flap is useful as it affords a partial protection to what would otherwise be a very large gap in the skull. If, however, the surgeon prefers not to cut an osteo-plastic flap, he proceeds to reflect the flap of soft parts immediately after the incision has been made down to the bone all round. All the structures super- ficial to the bone, including the pericranium, are turned off the skull with a raspatory as quickly as possible. The marks made by the bradawl are identified and the amount of bone to be removed is decided upon. In some cases it is sufficient to make a single large trephine hole and then to enlarge the opening with Hoffman's or Lane's forceps (see Figs. 147 and 190). This, however, is generally very tedious, especiaUy when there is a large tumour ; in that case foiu" small trephine holes should be made at what will be the angles of the opening, and these are then connected by means of De Vilbiss's forceps (see Fig. 189), or by a Gigli's saw (see p. 33). If a Gigli's saw is used the whalebone guide and metal spatula (see Fig. 191) must be used also in order to protect the dura mater. Unless this is done, the under-surface of the wire, which cuts as freely as the upper, will wound the dura mater, as the intra-cranial tension is sure to press it uj) against the saw. The simplest III. FF