121 TUBERCULOSIS increase of philanthropic societies and country hospitals, has made it possible to obtain for an increasing number of these patients the favour- able conditions which were formerly confined to the rich. Operations are therefore much less frequently called for, and are diminishing in number every year. Operative treatment may be necessary in the following cases : When chronic suppuration occurs early ; when the disease is localised to one part of the synovial membrane or bone ; at a later stage, when there is a deposit in the bone, with general synovial thickening; in cases of diffuse synovial thickening when the disease continues to progress in spite of careful expectant treatment; when a better functional result can be obtained by operative means than can be hoped for by expectant treat- ment ; in adults with deformities which can be remedied only by opera- tion ; in some cases complicated by septic sinuses; in certain cases in which phthisis is present, or in which the general condition is such as to require immediate and complete removal of the local disease ; in adults more frequently than in children ; in the poor more often than in the rich. Expectant treatment should be employed in cases of diffuse synovial disease without suppuration, in which none of the indications for imme- diate operative interference are present ; in children when there are osseous deposits in parts that cannot be reached without excision—as, for example, in the hip-joint ; and in some cases in which septic sinuses are present. Much will also depend upon the joint affected. For example, in the hip-joint expectant treatment should be persevered in much longer than in tlie more accessible joints. Many circumstances will influence the choice of the particular operative method to be employed. The principal are the age of the patient, his general condition and the state of the joint itself. With regard to the last factor, the chief points are the presence or absence of chronic suppuration, the presence or absence of sinuses, and the distribution and character of the local disease. Choice of operation.—The question as to which of the three radical operations—arthrectomy, excision, or amputation—should be performed in any given case is of great importance. Amputation.—Amputation is the least dangerous of the three radical operations and is accompanied by the least shock. Hence in weakly subjects who cannot stand a necessarily prolonged operation hke an arthrectomy or an excision, but in whom some radical measure is never- theless essential, amputation is the best practice. When phthisis is present, or when the patient, is going steadily do\Mihill, amputation is better than either of the other procedures. The improvement that takes place in the condition of the patient, and even in the condition of the lungs, after amputation through healthy tissues well above the seat of the disease, is often very remarkable. Should there be amyloid degeneration of the kidneys or other organs, amputation is the least dangerous of the