491 PLASTIC SURGERY with difficulty, the stitches should be left in for from eight to ten days ; the earlier they are removed, the less noticeable are the stitch-marks afterwards. Dressing.—No dressing is required in these cases ; at the most, a piece of boric lint dipped in boric lotion may be applied for a few hours until all bleeding has stopped, and then a narrow strip of gauze may be fixed along the line of incision with collodion. In plastic operations about the mouth, the gauze quickly becomes soiled with saliva and becomes septic, and therefore, it is better to dust the line of incision over with boric acid powder and allow it to dry. PLASTIC OPERATIONS ON THE LIPS. RESTORATION OF THE LOWER LIP. This is called for, when the whole lower lip must be taken away for an extensive labial cancer. Here, instead of making a quadrilateral incision (see Fig. 221), it is always best to make a V-shaped one, with the apex of the V at the chin (see Fig, 222), even though considerably more of the healthy lip is sacrificed in so doing. The result is a large triangular defect, which may be closed in one of the following ways :— In the first plan, the soft parts from the angles of the mouth down to the reflection of the mucous membrane from the lower lip on to the gums are brought up to form a new lower lip, the mucous membrane being stitched to the skin on each side as far as its point of reflection. Curved incisions are carried downwards into the neck on each side from the apex of the V (see Fig. 222, A) ; for example, the incision on the left side of the lip is continued downwards in a bold ciu've on to the right side of the neck nearly as low as the hj^oid bone, and then upwards towards the angle of the jaw. The whole of this flap is freed, the mucous membrane being divided along its reflection to the gum, and a similar procedure is carried out on the other side ; the facial artery should be left undivided. The original lines of the incision on the lip made for the removal of the cancer are now brought up to the horizontal, so as to form the margin of the new lower lip (see Fig. 222, B). The adjacent edges of the two flaps, which have been made to slide upwards, are stitched together in the middle line for a sufficient distance to leave a somewhat redundant lower lip (in order to allow for subsequent contraction), and the edges of the incision in the neck are then brought together. In order to unite the latter satisfactorily, it is well to undermine the skin below the incision for some distance, so that it can be pulled up and united to the lower edge of the flap above without undue tension; if the sutures are inserted so as to include more of the lower edge than of the upper between each stitch, the incision will come together without much puckering. In some cases, it may be necessary to leave a small