107 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION As an alternative to washing out the joint, or as a method of treatment when this has failed, aseptic drainage may be practised. Provided that asepsis can be secured, there is no doubt that this is a very effectual procedure. Particular care is necessary as regards asepsis, because suppu- ration in a comparatively healthy joint is a very disastrous occurrence. An incision should be made in the capsule of the joint sufficiently large to admit a No. 14 drainage tube, which is stitched to the skin and surrounded by the usual antiseptic dressings. The dressings must be changed daily at first, and at less frequent intervals subsequently, according to the amount of discharge present. In most cases this treat- ment is sufficient to subdue all tendency to effusion into the joint in about ten to fourteen days, when the drainage tube should be left out and the wound allowed to heal. When healing has occurred, massage and passive movement must be begun and gradually increased in amount, so long as they do not produce any further effusion. In about three weeks the patient may be allowed to get about with the limb strapped with Scott's dressing, careful watch being maintained to see that no further effusion takes place. In the most obstinate cases, even this method will not succeed. The most common condition keeping up the synovitis under these circum- stances is the presence of enlarged synovial fringes in the joint [vide infra), and therefore we advise that, whenever the surgeon employs drainage of a joint, he should make the incision into the capsule large enough to introduce his finger, examine the interior of the joint, and deal with any abnormal condition which may be present. CHRONIC SYNOVITIS WITH SYNOVIAL THICKENING. The thickening may affect either the surface or the substance of the synovial membrane. Thickening of the synovial fringes.—This condition is not uncommonly the primary cause of obstinate cases of chronic synovitis with effusion. The change in the synovial membrane varies from hypertrophy of a few fringes—generally at the point where the synovial membrane joins the cartilage—to an almost universal papillo- matous condition of the surface. If a piece of the aftected synovial membrane be floated in water its surface presents an appearance re- sembling seaweed. Microscopic examination of the fringes shows that they consist of fibrous tissue with loops of blood-vessels, but without any marked signs of inflammation unless they have been repeatedly nipped between the articular ends, when they become swollen and inflamed. There may also be a marked deposit of fat in the fringes, so that large fatty masses hang into the joint. The condition has been described under the name of ' Hpoma arborescens ' (see Fig. 75). The pathology of this hypertrophy of the synovial fringes is