386 AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD marked about the seat of infection and towards the base of the brain and along the spinal cord. After a short time the brain becomes covered with pus and lymph, and it is probable that its surface is also involved in the inflammatory process since there is usually some softening with or without haemorrhagic infiltration. Lepto-meningitis is always a disease of extreme gravity, especially when it results from infection following on injury. The idiopathic forms are less severe and recovery from them may take place. This difference is probably due to the fact that the organisms at work are not the same in the two forms. The disease is charac- terised by pyrexia, distress- ing headache, gradually increasing drowsiness, de- lirium and epileptiform convulsions. At first cerebration may be over- active and the inteUigence unimpaired, but in the later stages the patient becomes more and more unconscious. The pulse is very rapid at first, but later on, when symptoms of compression appear, it becomes slow, full, and bounding. Rigors frequent^ occur, and the temperature, at first con- tinuously high, may assume a hectic character later on. There may be various motor paralyses, especially affecting the cranial nerves. There is often a good deal of rigidity of the limbs and retraction of the head. Treatment.—When the disease is once estabhshed there is very little prospect of effecting a cure. If there is a scalp wound with a fissure of the skull, the wound should be enlarged and the bone freely removed with the trephine and Hoffman's forceps. The dura mater is then laid widely open so as to permit free escape of the pus. The bone may also be trephined towards the base of the skull (see Fig. 162), and an attempt made to wash out the pus with a stream of steriUsed saline solution or boric lotion. As a rule, these operations are seldom successful in the true diffuse form of the affection ; success is only probable when there is a more or less localised collection of pus. The attempt to wash away the pus generally fails, because the brain is oedematous and swollen Fig. 162.—Drainage of the Sub-arachnoid Space in the Cerebellar Region. The drawing is made from a section of the skull of a foetus just before birth, and shows how the cere- bellar sub-arachnoid space is tapped by opening the skull below the inferior curved line. After birth the cerebellum becomes proportionately larger and the space smaller, b, The opening in the skull; a, the tentorium cerebelli. (From a preparalion by Prof. Arthur Robinson, formerly of King's College.)