AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE 294 lumbar vertebra is affected, the pus may collect in the iliac fossa and point above the outer part of Poupart's ligament. Sometimes, though rarely, it passes downward into the pelvis, and then backwards through the sacro-sciatic notch or the obturator foramen ; the abscess then points in the buttock, the back of the thigh, or even the perineum. Pressure symptoms.—The disease may also exert pressure upon the spinal cord. In a considerable proportion of cases pressure symptoms become manifest after a time, and lead to interference with the innerva- tion of the parts belovv the seat of the disease. This pressure originates in two ways, the most common being the development of pachymeningitis, the dura mater becoming infected and thickened ; the thickened mem- branes fill up the spinal canal and press on the cord. In rarer cases an abscess forms in the spinal canal outside the dura mater, and, projecting backwards, compresses the cord against the laminae. In the latter case the pressure symptoms may suddenly subside when the abscess is opened externally, as the internal abscess communicates with and empties itself into the external one. It is very doubtful whether inter- ference with the functions of the cord is ever caused by the acuteness of the curvature, though some have supposed that, when the bend is very acute, the cord may be stretched over the bodies of the vertebrae and pressed upon, or that a spicule of bone may compress the cord ; it has also been supposed that, under similar circumstances, the symptoms may arise from kinking of the cord and interference with its circulation. It is possible that some cases may arise in this way, but in the great majority one of the conditions just mentioned leads to the paralysis. If the pressure on the cord is not relieved, myelitis occurs at the seat of compression, the cord becomes flattened, softened, and in some cases almost diffluent, and secondary degenerations spread from this point. The nerves passing out through the inter-vertebral foramina about the seat of the disease may also be pressed upon and undergo structural alterations. TREATMENT.—The treatment will have to be modified to some extent according to the region affected, but we shall first discuss the treatment of spinal disease in general and then refer briefly to certain special points. TREATMENT OF SPINAL DISEASE IN GENERAL. The first essential in the treatment is to place the affected part absolutely at rest and to remove all sources of irritation as far as possible. To effect this it is necessary to prevent antero-posterior and lateral movement, to take off the weight of the upper part of the body, and to put a stop to the tonic contraction of the muscles of the spine surrounding the diseased area. These requirements may be met by rest in the recum- bent posture, extension of the spine and fixation in suitable forms of apparatus.