CONCUSSION 267 disturbance of the nerve cells. Concussion of the spine is usually caused by a severe blow on the back or by a fall from a height upon the feet, buttocks, or back. There is more or less complete loss of motion and sensation in the legs immediately after the accident, and sometimes weakness of the arms as well. There may also be incontinence of urine and constipation. The symptoms usually pass off in a few hours, but they may not entirely disappear for some days ; when there is no actual organic lesion, recovery practically always occurs. Should there be defective recovery, such as permanent weakness affecting a single muscle or a group of muscles, it is probable that there has been some actual lesion, such as haemorrhage into the cord. TREATMEISTT.—In the early stage it will suffice to keep the patient in bed and apply a spinal ice-bag ; ergotinine citrate (ofirr gi'.) may be given if there is any reason to suspect haemorrhage. If there is retention of urine, it must be relieved. The diet should be non-stimulating and should consist mainly of milk. ' Railii'ay spine.'—The condition known as ' railway spine ' is usually a sprain of the muscles and fascice which has been neglected, but some cases, in which degenerative spinal changes subsequently occur, are probably the result of haemorrhage into the cord or membranes ; other cases are simply due to hysteria following the general nervous upset. The condition is one of great importance, partly from the difficulty in arriving at an accurate estimate of the damage sustained, and partly from the obstacles that are so often thrown in the way of treatment. The fact that the injury has been met with upon the railway, and that com- pensation may therefore be claimed, doubtless has a tendency to discount the gravity of the case in the eyes of the surgeon and to increase it in those of the patient. It frequently requires not only a good knowledge of surgery, but also a keen insight into character to arrive at a just conclusion. There are often very serious difficulties in carrying out the treatment successfully. In the first place, complete rest, quietude, and abstinence from aU mental work are called for immediately after the accident. The latter, however, is often most difficult to secure, and, from the circumstances of the case, business worries and interviews and corre- spondence regarding compensation, etc., are very difficult to prevent. In many cases also, the obscure nerve symptoms, which may be absolutely genuine, do not develop until some time after the injury. When the question of compensation has been finally disposed of, rapid improvement may occur. After a short time devoted to rest and quiet, the treatment must aim at causing the absorption of any effusion about the spine, and the early restoration of its functions. Practically it is the same as that employed for sprains of tlie spine {vide supra). It is a point of the