AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE 454 current passed until the whole growth looks white and distended with the gas. The result is a perfectly even, white scar, somewhat smaller than the original growth. ' When the patient demands an aneesthetic for these small operations, the following method of introducing cocaine through the unbroken skin by cataphoresis may prove useful. ' A ten per cent, solution of cocaine (the alkaloid itself, not the hydro- chlorate) in pure guaiacol is used. A piece of clean blotting-paper is soaked in the solution and placed on the area to be anaesthetised, and a suitably shaped incorrodible electrode is placed on the top of it. This electrode is connected with the positive pole, and a current of about four or five milhamperes passed for five minutes or so. Fifteen cells will probably be required at first, but the resistance soon diminishes, and then some may be switched off. A pricking sensation is felt at first, but this soon passes off, and is followed by complete anesthesia to pain. The angesthesia passes off in about a quarter of an hour. The only objection to this method is the penetrating odour of the solution. In rare cases anaesthesia is not produced at the end of five minutes, and it has been found to be advantageous in such cases to reverse the current after this time.' MALIGNANT TUMOURS. These form the most important group of tumours on the face, and may be either sarcomatous or carcinomatous in nature. The former present no special points of interest, and do not differ in any way from sarcomata elsewhere. CARCINOMATA.—The face is one of the common seats of the slow-growing flat epithelial carcinoma so frequently met with in elderly people. This generally commences in some small pigmented seborrhoea patch or in a pigmented mole, but it may occur without any antecedent disease of the skin. The treatment is very satisfactory ; if it is removed freely, a perfect recovery may ensue with an insignificant scar. Glandular infection occurs very late in the disease. Another form is the tuberous epithelial carcinoma, which usually starts at the junction of the mucous membrane with the skin, most frequently in connection with the lower lip. This form is referred to more in detail in connection with affections of the lips (see Chap. XXXIX.). A third form of epithelial carcinoma frequently met with on the face is the so-called rodent ulcer. The characters of this growth have already been referred to (see Vol. I. p. 241). Its growth is usually extremely slow, but it may ultimately lead to widespread destruction of the bones, and cause the death of the patient by affecting the dura mater and so setting up septic meningitis, or by leading to haemorrhage or to attacks of erysipelas. The treatment of this affection is dealt with in Vol. II. p. 23.