SCALP WOUNDS TREATMENT.—The treatment of this form is the same as in the previous cases, but it is especially desirable to obtain rapid absorption of the blood as soon as possible, otherwise permanent injury to the bone may result. Indeed, in some cases the bone may become absorbed and per- forated. Hence, if absorption of the fluid does not occur in the course of a week or ten days, resort should generally be had to puncture or drainage without further delay. TRAUMATIC CEPHAL-HYDROCELE. This rare condition—sometimes called traumatic meningocele—maj' occur in young children after an injury, in which there has been a fracture of the vault with laceration of the dura mater. ImiTiediately after the infliction of the injury a sweUing forms, which presents the characters of a cephal-hsematoma, but when the effused blood becomes absorbed the swelling persists. The probable explanation of this is, that the fracture in the skull has not united and that the cleft in the bone has become enlarged by absorption of its edges ; the dura mater being torn, the subdural space is thus placed in open communication with the sub- aponeurotic tissues. In some cases, there is actually a communication between the sub-aponeurotic space and the lateral ventricle of the brain. The swelling thus produced is soft and partially reducible, it pulsates synchronously with the heart, it gives an impulse on coughing or crying, and in some cases the fluid entering and leaving the sac produces a systolic bruit. TREATMENT.—The condition usually subsides spontaneously after a period varying from a fortnight or more to several months. It would seem best not to apply any more energetic treatment than gentle compression by a bandage, possibly combined with occasional aspira- tion, should the swelUng become very tense. The risk of infection is great, and the most scrupulous asepsis must be observed in performing the aspiration. SCALP WOUNDS. Wounds of the scalp may vary from a small abrasion or incision to detachment of the greater part of the scalp. These wounds are very liable to sepsis, and tliis is accounted for partly because micro-organisms are very numerous upon the scalp, and hair and scurf are generally driven into the wound, and partly because the wound is frequently produced by some dirty instrument and is usually more or less contused. Hence, there is a great risk of suppuration in all these cases, and this should be carefully borne in mind because suppuration beneath the scalp is a very serious occurrence ; not only may the pus extend far and wide beneath the aponeurosis, but septic thrombosis may occur in the veins of the diploe and subsequently involve the large sinuses. Even without any