470 AFFECTIONS OF THE LIPS on to the mucous membrane, and the patient is comparatively young, it is best to remove the whole of the fat and glands in the submaxillary and submental areas at the same time that the operation on the lip is performed. Should the growth be adherent to the jaw, a portion of the bone must be removed ; it is never advisable to be content with merely peeling off the periosteum. As soon as the growth becomes adherent to bone, the cancer cells penetrate along the Haversian canals and recurrence is certain, unless the affected portion of the bone is removed. At the same time it must be remembered that removal of portions of the jaw always leaves a troublesome deformity, and as much of the bone should be left as possible. When the jaw is affected, it is usirally from a growth which has commenced on the mucous surface of the lip and spread downwards on to the gum, and a large portion of the lip will have to be removed as well as the affected portion of the jaw. An extensive plastic operation will usually be necessary. In some cases the disease affects only the alveolar portion of the bone, the lower margin of the jaw being healthy ; in this case the lower margin of the jaw should be left intact so as to maintain the continuity of the bone and prevent deformity. This is done as follows : The teeth on either side of the growth are extracted and a vertical saw-cut is made through the upper two-thirds of the bone on each side about three- quarters of an inch beyond the disease. These cuts are then connected by an horizontal one, which is most easily made by a Gigli's saw. The periosteum must be removed with the bone. When the bone has been removed, the flaps are brought together so as to restore the lip, and in doing so it is most important to stitch the edges of the mucous membrane accurately together, otherwise the mobility of the lip may be greatly interfered with, owing to adhesion of the lip to the jaw. In bringing up the flaps to form a fresh lip, a raw surface may be left below. If this is so, it is a good plan to cover it with a Thiersch's skin-graft, otherwise the contraction of the scar may pull down the new lip. Later on, a dentist will probably be able to supply the patient with a bar carrying artificial teeth, which will give support to the lip. In many cases the growth involves the whole depth of the jaw, and it is impossible to save any portion of it. The various operations for removal of parts of the jaw will be found in Vol. IV.