241 DISEASES OF THE SHOULDER-JOINT fixed in position by a starch or water-glass bandage for about two or tiiree weeks, and then passive and active movements sliould be begun. The time at which these movements should be commenced depends largely upon the amount of bone removed; if the whole of the upper end of the bone lias been taken away and the rotators divided, as was done in the old operation, the elbow sliould be supported and the arm fixed for four or five weeks, otherwise a very lax joint is likely to result ; if, on the other hand, the operation we have described above is sufficient, movements should be l^egun after a fortnight. Special attention must be paid to preserving rotation, which is the movement most likely to be lost ; abduction should also be carefully attended to. The axillary pad and the wrist-sling should be continued for six or eight weeks. Resitlis.—The results of the operation are satisfactory on tlie whole ; all the arm movements, with the exception of a certain amount of rotation, may be preserved, but it is seldom that abduction can be carried as far as, and certainly not beyond, a right angle. If, however, the patient can abduct the limb nearly to a right angle he is generally very well satisfied. OSTEO-ARTHRITIS. The shoulder-joint is frequently affected by this disease, and here the affection is often monarticular, or at the most only affects two or three joints. The affection in the shoulder is often spoken of as malum senile, just as in the case of the liip-joint. In the shoulder-joint the disease is often accompanied by severe pain, beginning in the early stages, and also by marked limitation of movement in all directions. Associated with this is rapid atrophy of the deltoid, so that the head of the humerus and the osteophytes, which are common in this situation, can be felt easily. TREATMENT.—The treatment must be carried out on the same lines as for the disease elsewhere (see p. 143) ; the only point that we need deal with here is the question of excision. As a means of relieving the pain there is no doubt that excision has great advantages, and therefore, if the patient's general condition is good, and the pain intolerable, it may be justifiable for that reason. The functional result, however, is seldom good in these cases. The movements of the limb are apt to be very imperfect, mainly on account of the atrophy of the deltoid and the other muscles around the joint. In excising the joint for the relief of the excessive pain, it is advisable to remove the head alone, leaving the greater part of the tuberosities untouched. This can usually be done by means of a chisel and without completely dividing the rotator muscles of the shoulder. The surface of the glenoid cavity should also be removed ; and, to prevent anchylosis, a layer of fascia should be inserted between the raw bony surfaces, in. R