447 SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS to pare them ; this not only renifives any adventitious cok)uring matter, but also favours healing by first intention. Siiiiiring.—The question of avoiding stitch-marks has already been discussed (see Vol. I. p. 136). By employing the subcutaneous suture there described, reinforced by strips of gauze fixed on the skin with collodion, the edges may be brought into accurate apposition without any stitch-marks being left. Should it he advisable to use skin stitches, either because portions of skin have been lost or because the edges are much contused, the sutures should consist of the finest horse-hair introduced with a very fine round sewing-needle close to the margin of the wound. Only the fewest possible stitches should be used, the approximation of the intermediate portions of the wound being effected by strips of gauze (see Vol. I. p. 137). When the wound is contused, it is often best not to introduce stitches at all, or at most to employ only one or two to keep the edges in fair apposition, the actual approximation being effected by the strips of gauze referred to above. Outside this, a small gauze dressing should be fastened on with collodion; if there is much oozing, a large dressing may be applied for the first twenty-four hours, after which it may be left off and the small coUodion dressing substituted. Complications.—Bleeding from these wounds usually stops either spontaneously or after sponge pressure or douching with ice-cold lotion, and it is only necessary to apply ligatures when the larger vessels are wounded. When the facial nerve has been divided it is difficult to repair the injury unless the ner\'e has been cut before it breaks up into its branches. These branches are delicate filaments which it is practically impossible to find or to unite, and the best that can be done, under the circumstances, is to bring the edges of the wound as accurately together as possible, in the hope that some of the divided filaments may thereby be brought into apposition and may unite. The other important complication, namely, injuiy to Stensons duct, is treated separately in connection with the injuries to the parotid gland (see Chap. XLIII.). SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS. The face is a favourite seat of syphilitic lesions, which may be met with in all the stages of the disease. Primary sores may occur about the lips or the eyelids, while secondary syphilitic eruptions are common on the forehead in the neighbourhood of the hair. Tertiary syphilitic lesions are frequently met with about the forehead and the nose, either in the form of a nodular syphilide or gummatous disease. The gummata are most common on the frontal bone, and there is usually ulceration of the skin over them. The nose is a common seat of both acquired and congenital syphilis. It may take the form of a nodular syphilide of the skin or a gumma of