DISLOCATION AND FRACTURE-DISLOCATION 277 After-treatment.—After the application of the dressing and before the patient is turned over, a large shield of poroplastic material or plaster of Paris is moulded to the back and sides of the trunk and fastened in position so as to ensure immobility. If the dura mater has been opened, it is well to keep the patient for some days with the head low and the foot of the bed elevated, in order to prevent excessive leakage of cerebro-spinal fluid. Unless the dressings become soaked with discharge, they need not be changed for ten days, and the stitches may then be taken out. 4. Of Complications.—Perhaps the most important point in these cases is the avoidance of com- plications and their proper treatment when they arise. Death is almost invariably due to these complications, of which the most important, surgically, are urinary infections and bed- sores. It is necessary in most cases to have recourse to the S3'ste- matic use of the catheter. Sometimes, however, there is true incontinence, the urine escaping as soon as it reaches the bladder, and catheterisation is therefore unnecessary; septic decomposition of the urine is, however, apt to occur in these cases. With the view of pre- venting this, glass urine-bottles should be provided, which must be sterilised by boiling before use and changed at least every three hours. In the male, the meatus should be disinfected two or three times a day by washing with i in 2000 sublimate solution, and the entire penis should be washed twice a day with soap and the same lotion. When retention is present, regular catheterisation is called for, and hence the risks of cystitis are much increased. The softest of instruments, of which the best is Jaques' red rubber catheter, should be employed, and must be scrupulously sterilised. The best plan is to place the catheter in water for about half an hour after use, and then to remove all mucus from the interior by forcibly syringing water through it. It is then sterilised by boiling for a quarter of an hour and kept in i in 2000 sublimate solution till required. Previous to use, the instrument should be anointed Fig. 108.—Incisions for Laminectomy. These are the incisions discussed in Vol. IL p. 131.