AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 58 joint to a right angle, and at the same time adducts and rotates the thigh inwards so as to disentangle the head of the bone (see Fig. 31). Firm vertical extension is then made upon the thigh, at first quite steadily and later on in a series of jerks; after a time, the head of the bone may slip into the acetabulum with a distinct snap. Should no assistant be available to steady the pelvis, this may be done by the surgeon's unbooted foot pressing directly downwards upon the anterior superior iliac spine of the same side. If the traction were exerted in the long axis of the body with the limb fully extended it would be ineffec- tual, as the Y-ligament would prevent the descent of the head of the bone, and is strong enough to bear without rupture more traction than the surgeon can employ. On the other hand, when the thigh is flexed to a right angle, the Y-ligament is relaxed and the head of the bone is allowed to pass back into place through the rent in the capsule (see Fig. 32). After-treatment. — The ten- dency to recurrence of this dislocation is very shght. The patient should be put to bed and the lower extremities may be tied together, whilst evap- orating lotions, or an ice-bag (see Vol. I. p. 9) are applied to reduce any swelling that may occur. Passive movement may Fig. 32.—Diagram of the Arrangement of the be Carried OUt after three dayS, Y-LiGAMENT OF THE HiP. wlthln 3. wcck the patient may walk. For some weeks, however, he should avoid too great flexion or abduction of the limb, because these movements might reproduce the dislocation as long as the rent in the capsule remains unhealed. (b) Dislocation into the Sciatic notch.—In this case reduction is effected in a similar manner to that described above, except that the hip joint must be flexed as far as possible in the first instance so as to disengage the head of the femur from beneath the tendon of the obturator internus. OF DISLOCATIONS FORWARDS.—The manipulations for the reduction of these dislocations must be the reverse of those just described.