DISLOCATIONS OF THE FOOT 75 TREATMENT.—Reduction is often very difficult owing partly to the tension of the tendo Achillis, and partly also to hitching of the sharp posterior edge of the articular surface of the astragalus in the interosseous groove of the os calcis; in some cases also the tendon of the tibialis anticus may be caught beneath the neck of the astragalus. Before attempting reduction the patient should be anaesthetised, and an assistant must fix the leg with the knee fully flexed. The surgeon then grasps the foot with one hand over the instep and the other over the heel, and makes firm downward traction in order to disengage the astragalus ; at the same time the toes should be depressed. When full extension has been made, the whole foot is pressed forwards by the hand over the heel, when the os calcis may be forced into place, dorsal flexion being employed as the dislocation becomes reduced. These manipulations often have to be repeated several times before they succeed ; they may be unsuccessful even after repeated trials. Should manipulations fail, the dislocation cannot be left unrelieved, on account of the extreme uselessness of the foot which results and the risk of sloughing of the skin ; an incision should therefore be made along the inner border of the foot, commencing about an inch above the internal malleolus, and running downwards and forwards over the neck of the astragalus. This exposes the tendon of the tibialis anticus, and allows the nature of the obstacles to reduction to be investigated. Should the main obstacle be the slipping of the tibialis anticus tendon beneath the neck of the astragalus, the head of the bone can be levered up, and the tendon hooked aside whilst the foot is forcibly pushed forwards into place. Should it still be found impossible to reduce the dislocation, the best treatment is to proceed immediately to excision of the astragalus, which can be effected partly through the incision already made, and partly through a somewhat similar one on the outer side. This operation and the after-treatment are described fully in Vol. I. p. 332. In cases in whicli the dislocation has remained unreduced for some time, excision of the astragalus, with division of any adhesions which prevent the foot coming forward, is the hest plan, and gives a satisfactory result. DISLOCATION OF THE ASTRAGALUS ALONE. The astragalus may be detached from the bones of the leg above and those of the foot below, and may thus be separated completely from all its connections. It may be displaced in various directions; most commonly it passes directly forwards, or forwards and to one side, but in some cases it may be dislocated backwards. The injury is caused by severe violence, and is frequently complicated by fracture of the bone itself; it maybe compound, either as a direct result of the violence, or from sloughing of the skin which is tightly stretched over the prominent head of the bone.