449 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS conditions, and injections of tuberculin may do good (see Vol. I. p. 522). When there is eversion of the lower eyelid, the ordinary operation for ectropion should be performed after the disease has passed off; this is described under the plastic surgery of the face (see Chap. XLL). TUBERCULOUS LUPUS. This is tlie most common tuberculous lesion of the face ; it occurs chiefly upon tlie cheeks or the tip of the nose, and presents wide variations in virulence. The disease ma.y last for years and is very intractable ; unless its ravages are checked, it may cause the most distressing deformi- ties. It begins with the deposit of one or two nodules in the skin, around which fresh nodules develop, and these may or may not ulcerate. On the face, the disease spreads in the skin, but does not penetrate for any distance into the subcutaneous tissues. On the nose, however, the tubercles penetrate deeper and destroy the cartilages, so that after a time tlie cartilaginous portion of the nose may be lost. The nasal bones are never ali'ected and the bridge remains intact ; this serves to distinguish the condition from syphilitic destruction of the nose. The disease may spread from the nose to the lips and into the nostrils. Apart from the unsightly sores and scars and the destruction of tissue, the ulceration gives rise to other deformities which are both unsightly and serious, such as ectropion, contractions about the lips which distort the mouth, and narrowing of the orifices of the nostrils, so that the patient is unable to breathe properly. TREATMENT.—The various methods of treating lupus have been already referred to (see Vol. II. p. 15) ; we need therefore say nothing further on the matter here, especially as the remarks in the former volume refer appropriately to the affection as it occurs on the face. INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. There are no special points concerning the acute inflammations of the skin and subcutaneous tissues of the face. ERYSIPELAS. The face is the most common seat of the so-called ' medical erysipelas,' in which no definite point of entrance of the micro-organisms can be made out. The chief importance of erysipelas of the face is tlrat it has a great tendency to spread to the scalp, and there is always, therefore, the risk of acute inflammatory processes in that region. TREATMENT.—This does not differ in any way from that already described for the aftection in general (see Vol. I. p. 197). III. G G