435 TUMOURS OF THE BRAIN instrument of all, if it be obtainable, is a circular saw worked by an electric or a hand motor ; this has the additional advantage that the incisions are made with great rapiditj/' ; a flexible narrow spatula must be passed between the dura mater and the bone to prevent the edge of the saw damaging the former structure. If the operation is to be com- pleted at one sitting, the portions of bone removed may be kept either under the scalp (see p. 344), or in sterile saline solution at a temperature of 100° F., with a view to replacing them at the end of the operation ; but if the operation is to be divided into two stages, as is usually the case, this cannot be done. After the bone has been removed, the dura mater will bulge into the opening and will be devoid of pulsation. The end of the hrst stage of the operation has now been reached ; all that remains to be done, after seeing that the amoiint of skull removed is sufficient to ensure free access to the tumour, is to close the wound and proceed with the second stage some days later. The flap is put back in place and sutured Fic. 189.—De Vilbiss's Skull-forceps. These are very powerful punch-forceps and are useful for cutting a narrow track in the skull. The shank of the cutting arm is narrow and travels easily in the space cut out. accurately with a continuous suture ; no drainage tube is necessary unless there is difficulty in stopping the oo.zing. Opening the duva matey.—After an interval of four to ten days after the first operation, according to the condition of the patient, chloroform is again administered, a preliminary injection of morphine and atropine having been given. The same precautions are taken as before with regard to asepsis, and every possible means of minimising shock is adopted (see Vol. I. p. 117). The sutures are removed, the flap is turned down, and the dura mater exposed. The latter should be opened so as to form a flap which is turned upwards ; a small incision is made into the dura mater about half an inch from the edge of the bone, and is continued with a pair of blunt-pointed scissors parallel to the edge of the opening in the bone (see Fig. 160). Several blood-vessels will be divided, but if they are small they can be seized and ligatured as they are cut ; when the incision runs across large vessels it is well to under-run them with a small fully-curved round needle, and tie them before they are divided (see Fig. 157). It is important not to FF 2