TUMOURS 451 by far the best method of treatment, as excision or cauterisation cannot be employed, on account of the risk of injury to important structures and of the scarring which would result. The method of electrolysis is detailed in Vol. I. p. 256. ' Port-i&ine Stains.'—Perhaps the most troublesome naevoid con- dition on the face is that produced by the so-called ' port-wine stains,' and the disfigurement may be so great as to call for treatment. Ex- posure of the stain to radium or the X-rays until a dermatitis is set up, may cure the affection by producing thrombosis, but the best method is to freeze the surface with solid CO., (see Vol. L p. 262). MOLES. Moles are frequently met with on the face and are often very dis- figuring. They vary in size from that of a small pea up to a pigmented area larger than the palm of the hand. They may be partially or entirely covered with hair. TREATMENT.—This has already been fully described (see Vol. I. p. 251). Should the patient desire to be relieved of the pigmentation, the only method is to excise the patch. If the mole is small and the incisions are suitably planned, the edges of the wound may be brought together by buried sutures (see Vol. L p. 136), and the resulting scar may be quite unnoticeable. When the wound is too large to allow of this, Thiersch's skin-grafts, cut as large as possible, should be applied to the raw surface. The slight scarring resulting from this will be far less noticeable than the pigmentation due to the mole. If the raw surface can be covered by one or two large grafts the scarring will be quite inconspicuous in a short time. In other cases the patient especially desires to be freed from the presence of hairs upon the mole. Temporary depilation may be obtained by exposure of the hairy part to the X-rays or radium, but in the course of time the hairs grow again. Permanent arrest of the growth of hair can only be secured by destroying the hair bulbs. The most efficacious method of doing this is by electrolysis. Although very elfectual, it is very slow and tedious, since each follicle has to be treated separately. It was much used at one time for the removal of superfluous hairs on the upper lip in females. Both methods leave the pigment unaltered in the case of pigmented hairy moles. For the following details of electrolysis we are indebted to Dr. Arthur Whitfield, Physician for Diseases of the Skin at King's College Hospital: ' The battery should consist of dry or Leclanche cells coupled in series. It is seldom that more than ten cells are required for any opera- tion, but if there are eighteen, the battery may also be used for the production of ana;sthesia by cataphoresis when necessary. A galvanometer reading in miUiamperes is also necessary. The needle used varies with the taste of the operator ; the platino-iridium needle has the obvious