93 ACUTE INFLAMMATION at some point or other. In acute synovitis, the lymph poured out on the surface of these s\'novial folds glues them together when the limb is kept at rest, and this lymph will organise, and, unless the folds are separated, will produce fibrous adhesions between the two surfaces or even complete obliteration of that portion of the synovial membrane. TREATMENT.—The treatment depends to some extent upon the cause, and will be referred to again in speaking of acute synovitis as it occurs under various circumstances ; there are, however, certain points common to all cases. At the commencement of the trouble absolute rest of the affected joint is of primary importance ; the limb should be placed on a splint in the position which will be most useful should adhesions form. Hot fomen- tations should be applied to the joint, and if there is much pain tlie flannel may be sprinkled with laudanum, and should be frequently renewed (see Vol. I. p. 12). In very acute synovitis benefit may be derived by first appljdng leeches over the joint followed l)y hot fomentations. When the pain has subsided, pressure, preferably by means of a cotton- wool and starch bandage (see p. 80), may be substituted for the fomen- ation. The amount of pressure should be regulated by the sensations of the patient ; it should never be so great as to cause pain, and it can generally be increased in a few days. The object is to bring about rapid absorption of the synovial fluid. Massage should be combined with the pressure after two or three days. Gentle rubbing should be practised at first and should be increased gradually in e.xtent and in vigour as the patient is able to bear it. In the case of simple synovitis not due to gonorrhoea or other acute infective cause passive movement may generally be begun about the end of the first week ; the sphnt should then be left off, and the joint supported by a firm elastic bandage. In a good many cases Bier's congestion treatment combined with massage is of great value when the acute symptoms have passed off (see Vol. I. p. 13). Not uncommonly the massage and passive movements are delayed for a considerable time, because they cause a good deal of pain when first employed. The presence of pain alone must not be looked on as a contra-indication to massage, because the young adhesions are often highly sensitive, but gradually become less so under the influence of gentle massage. The real guide as to whether mo\'ement is doing harm or not is the occurrence of swelling and inflammation. Should sweUing in the joint come on after massage or movement, it is an indication that the synovial membrane is still too inflamed to be treated by these means, and therefore it is advisable to delay the treatment for a short time. When movements are very painful, but do not set up stiffness or swelling, and when it is necessary to repeat the movement, some surgeons inject small quantities of a two per cent. steriHsed solution of cocaine. In bad