194 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS be employed when a fair trial of other plans has failed to cure these cases. The steps of the operation have been already given (seep. 109). Irritant injections.—Injection of irritating fluids into the joint with the view of soldering down the papiUae has been tried, but is by no means certain in its action. The joint has been flushed out with various irritating fluids, such as i in 2000 subUmate solution, i in 40 carbolic acid lotion, or two per cent, formalin in glycerine. Some fluid is left in the joint and the limb placed on a splint for a few days till the inflammation subsides. Passive and active movements should then be employed to prevent stiffness of the joint. This method cannot be recommended in preference to excision of the villous patches. ACUTE SUPPURATIVE ARTHRITIS. Acute suppurative arthritis is not uncommon in the knee, and, when occurring as the result of a wound or from acute epiphysitis, complete destruction of the joint and subsequent bony anchylosis is very likely to take place, should the patient survive. It is one of the commonest lesions in cases of pyaemia, but there, curiously enough, the destruction of the joint is often slight. It may also occur as a result of infection by the pneumococcus or streptococcus; in these cases it is not uncommon to find that the few patients who recover do so with a fairly movable joint. TREATMENT.—This has already been fully gone into, and direc- tions given for opening and draining the knee-joint (see p. 95). Great care must be taken that the tibia is not allowed to become displaced back- wards or to rotate outwards, and therefore the limb must be placed on an efficient splint which wiU not interfere with the drainage. It is always well to attempt to save the limb, and amputation should not be resorted to unless the case is so bad that it is obviously hopeless to try to retain it, or unless the symptoms do not decidedly abate within three days from the establishment of efficient drainage. The use of a vaccine of the organism present may also be employed, but the value of vaccines in these acute septic cases is doubtful. Fig. 76 shows the various recesses and bursal cavities in connection with this joint and will serve to point out the regions in which drainage must be provided. If the serious sjnnptoms continue in spite of free incision and drainage, and amputation is called for, this should be done through the lower third of the thigh. The medulla must be carefully examined at the point of section and, should signs of osteo-myelitis be found, a further portion of the bone is removed. Excision has been practised in cases of acute septic arthritis, but it is not at all satisfactory. It opens up the cancellous ends of the bones and exposes them to infection, and acute osteo-myelitis not infrequently results and the case terminates fatally