ANCHYLOSIS 155 to gain access to the joint the trochanter is detached and turned aside with the muscles attached to it (see Fig. 54). In the knee-joint the fascial flaps are taken from the inner and outer sides 'of the upper part of the leg ; in the elbow from the outer side of the forearm. ADHESIONS AND FIBROUS ANCHYLOSIS. Here movement may often be obtained without operation. When there are adhesions between the ends of the bones, however, and the position is bad, it may be necessary to cut down upon and remove portions of the articular ends, or perform Murphy's arthro- plasy [vide supra) ; but, with this exception, improvement and almost complete restoration of function can often be obtained by massage and exercises aided if necessary by breaking down the adhesions under an anfesthetic. Massage and passive movement should l)e employed in the first in- stance, immediately preceded by exposure of the joint to superheated air or radiant heat in a suitable apparatus (see p. 146). This produces congestion of the part, and the adhesions become softer, and stretch more readily. In the case of poor patients who cannot obtain a suitable apparatus, a good alternative plan is to suspend the limb in a wire cage covered with a blanket and a mackintosh outside, and introduce beneath this the nozzle of a bronchitis kettle, taking care that the steam does not play directly on the skin. As soon as it is evident that no further progress is being made—which will generally be in a week or ten days—an anaesthetic should be adminis- tered and the adhesions broken down. At the first sitting all the adhe- sions may be broken down if they are not numerous or dense ; if they are, it is well to carry the movements of the joints only through about half their range and to complete the movement at a sulisequent sitting. If too much is done at one sitting so much inflammation may follow that the movements may have to he left off for se\'eral days. On the other hand, if too little is done in the way of breaking down adhesions at one sitting, the result is that those left behind are so tender that movements cannot be carried out. Any swelling resulting from tlie manipulation may be treated by ff)mentations for a day or two, when gentle massage and movements should be resumed. In connection with these cases it must not be forgotten that trouble has frequently resulted from attempts to move tuberculous joints. It is not at all uncommon to meet with old tuberculous joints which have been forcibly moved by a bone-setter, and in which the disease has been lighted up afresh. In anchylosis after tuberculous disease, even when accompanied by deformity, it is usvially best to allow the patient to grow up, and then to operate for the deformity rather than to make an attempt to move the joint forcibly, even though the union be only fibrous.