AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 136 Treatment.—Since the joint affection is dependent upon the nervous lesion, we cannot expect to do much for it unless the primary disease can be cured. Since that is at present apparently impossible, the functions of the joint cannot be restored. Treatment must therefore be directed to limiting the destructive processes and to giving the joint as great a measure of stability as possible. Removal of the synovial fluid.—Should the joint be seen in the early stages, when the capsule is distended with fluid, the fluid should be with- drawn as soon as possible. The continued distension of the capsule is a great menace to the future stability of the joint, on account of the stretching and atrophy of the ligaments and capsule to which it gives rise. The fluid may be removed by aspiration, repeated if necessary, but a more efficient plan is drainage. An incision sufficiently large to admit a No. i6 drainage tube should be made into the joint, which is drained for two or three weeks, until the tendency to effusion has passed off. Naturally the strictest precautions as regards asepsis of the wound must be taken in these cases. Splints.—The limb should be put on a splint so arranged that the ends of the bone are not pressed against one another. After the drain- age has been dispensed with, and the wound has healed, the limb may be put up in a })laster of Paris or silicate bandage. This keeps the joint in good position and at the same time gives it sufficient rest to allow of the deposit of new bone in situations which will give support to the articulation. Apparatus.—In about six months' time the plaster or silicate casing may be abandoned, and some form of orthopaedic apparatus should be worn so as to enable the patient to use the limb. The best of these in the lower extremity is Hessing's splint (see Vol. II. p. 375). The appa- ratus must be worn for the rest of the patient's life, for, although the joint may become fairly firm from the formation of fresh bone, it rarely becomes strong enough to support the weight alone. It has been proposed to excise joints thus affected, but the operation may be definitely rejected as useless ; no union occurs and, consequently, the patient may be considerably worse off than he was before. Amputation.—Amputation may have to be considered in some cases; the chief condition likely to demand it is disease of the ankle-joint— when one side alone is affected, and when the ataxic gait has not yet developed. Under these circumstances it may be impossible to control the joint by an apparatus sufficiently to enable the patient to get about, and matters may be improved by performing a Syme's amputation (see Vol. II. p. 538) so as to enable an artificial foot to be worn. In the great majority of cases, however, no operative interference beyond the removal of the effusion in the early stages is at all promising