AFFECTIONS OF THE SKULL 364 syphilis, but this view has few supporters. The condition shows itself either by imperfect ossification of the skull or by malformations of portions of the cranium in which ossification has already taken place. The result is that the cranial bones become thickened in some parts, while in others (especiaUy where they are subject to pressure), they become extremely thin, and openings through the bone may actually form. The condition is most marked over the parietal and occipital bones where the head is subject to pressure, the result being that the skuU is usually flattened posteriorly. Signs of rickets may be found in the bony skeleton elsewhere, and also various nervous s)miptoms, such as laryngismus stridulus. TRBATMBISTT.—The treatment of this condition is that of rickets (see Vol. IL p. 464). When an infant shows a tendency to rickets, care should be taken that the position of its head is frequently changed, so that there is no prolonged pressure on any individual cranial area; if the bone has actually become thinned, some arrangement, such as a celluloid or aluminium shield, or a ring-pad, must be devised to take off the pressure altogether. LEONTIASIS OSSIUM. This condition is the reverse of the preceding one ; in it the bone becomes immensely thickened from causes which are not definitely determined. A somewhat similar condition of hypertro])hy of the skuU may also occur in osteitis deformans (see Vol. IL p. 475). In leontiasis ossium the skull may be much distorted in appearance owing to the presence of local thickening of the bones ; this may produce a sort of leonine aspect, hence the name, Leontiasis. These new-formed bosses of bone may occur on the cranial bones or in connection with the jaws, especially the upper ; they give rise to remarkable deformities and to various pressure symptoms. When the bosses are on the upper jaw or the frontal bone, they may project into the orbit and lead to pressure on the optic nerve and loss of sight; when the vertex is affected, the pressure may cause various brain sjmiptoms. TREIATMENT.—The disease is slow in its progress, and we know of no means of checking it. In some cases, however, surgery may be of value for the rehef of the pressure sjmiptoms. For example, when the growth is extending towards the orbit and interferes with vision, or when it presses on the brain, the removal of the particular boss of bone is indicated. At the same time it must be remembered that the operation is a purely temporary expedient to reheve the S3nTiptoms, and does not cure the disease. NEW GROWTHS OF THE SKULL. Tumours of the various types met with in other bones occur in connection with the skull.