AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD 436 wound the large vessels on the surface of the brain wlien dividing the dura. They ma^^ be protected by slipping a dura mater separator beneath the incision in the dura (see Fig. 171) ; all htemorrhage should be stopped before going farther. Removal of tJie tumour.—The brain is now examined, and any tumour upon the cortex will generally be manifest at once. If there be one beneath the grey matter, the convolutions will be flattened and will present a charac- teristic dull yellowish appearance, while the affected area gives a distinct feeling of resistance to the finger as compared with the healthy brain around. The difficulty of removing the tumour varies according as it is situated in the cortex or beneath it, and also according as it is encapsuled or diffuse. If the tumour is not apparent at once, a blunt searcher should be passed into the brain in its presumed direction, and if it comes in contact with any firmer tissue the convolutions are split with a brain knife (see Fig. 192) or a spatula introduced at right angles to the surface, so as to minimise the amount of injury to the vessels which run in that direction. The tumour is then gently separated from the brain with the finger and shelled out. The bleed- ing, which is generally venous and due to tearing of the large veins which lie upon the surface of the brain, may be profuse at fii"st ; if it be severe, pressure for a few minutes with a hot sponge will generally arrest it. Any vessels of large size should be tied or under-run with a fine catgut ligature. In superficial and encapsuled Fig. iqo.—Lane's Skull-forceps. ,i • 11 x 1 ,4. These are extremely powerful forceps, growths, it IS generally easy to make out and with them portions of the skull demarcation between the tumour and can be rapidly broken away. the brain substance, and the former may be enucleated without much damage to the brain. In the softer tumours it is almost impossible to decide, even with the aid of touch, which is tumour and which is brain. In any case the sense of touch is preferable to the use of an instrument. When the tumour is found to be irremovable, it must be either left alone or portions of it may be taken away. The latter procedure has little or no effect in retarding the progress of the disease, and may even cause serious danger from haemorrhage, but in some cases it may be