CLEFT PALATE 525 tongue out of the way. The objections to this gag are, in the first place, that the tongue-plate is apt to force the tongue back and embarrass the respiration ; this can be avoided by careful insertion of the gag, or by dispensing with the tongue-plate altogether. In the second place, the upper half of the gag takes its hold behind the alveolus in the middle line, and may render it difficult to work quite at the anterior part of the cleft. When these difliculties are met with, Mason's gag, or a self- retaining spring gag—such as that shown in Fig. 249, which is prevented from shifting its position by small spikes thrust into the alveolar border ■—may be used instead. When either of these gags is employed, the assistant must keep the tongue out of the way of the operator. The sponges should be of medium size and are grasped with forceps or special holders. Care must be taken that neither the forceps nor the holder projects beyond the sponge, and that the latter cannot be dis- placed laterally so as to uncover the end of the instrument which grasps it ; otherwise the edges of the palate or the back of the throat may be lacerated. When sponges are fixed on handles, care must also be taken that the sponge does not become detached—an accident that is rather apt to occur. The operation most generally applicable to the majority of cases is that introduced by Langenbeck ; in a typical moderate-sized cleft of the hard and soft palate, the operation may be conveniently divided into the following four stages : the paring the edges of the cleft; the formation of the muco-periosteal flaps ; the passage and tightening of the sutures ; and the relief of lateral tension. Advantage is generally taken of the intervals between these stages to arrest hemorrhage by pressure, to clear the throat of blood, and to administer more auEesthetic. Paring the edges of the cleft.—This is best done by seizing the extreme tip of the cleft uvula on one side with a pair of special long-handled catch-forceps (see Fig. 250, .4). The palate is put firmly on the stretch by pressing the forceps backwards and downwards, and a sharp-pointed, long-handled, narrow-bladed palate-knife (see Fig. 251, A), held with its back to the forceps, is inserted througli the thickness of the soft palate Fig. 248.—Whitehead's Gag.