TUBERCULOSIS 125 cautery applied to the skin over the joint seems to arrest the disease ; it probably does so by causing a subsidence of the inflammation around the deposit, which finally becomes encapsuled. 2. Cases of localised deposits in the synovial membrane.—This is also a rare form of tuberculixis disease, in the diagnosis of which there is often great difficulty. The deposits may occur either as pedunculated masses hanging into the joint (as described by Konig), or as simple localised thickenings of the synovial membrane. The treatment is to cut down and remove the mass, whether it be pedunculated or merely a localised thickening. A curved incision is made, and a flap of the skin and subcutaneous tissues turned aside, and then the whole of the thickened tissues is cut away with scissors along with a portion of the healthy synovial membrane all round. It is well to immobilise the joint afterwards for three to six weeks in case any tuber- culous disease has been left behind. In a number of cases the result is satisfactory; there is no recurrence of the disease and a movable articulation is secured. If these cases are not operated upon at an early stage, the thickening spreads until the entire synovial membrane becomes involved, and the case is then one of typical diffuse synovial disease. The condition may be met with in any joint, but we have observed it most frequently in the elbow, in the neighbourhood of the head of the radius. 3. Cases oi Empyema tuberculosum and Hydrops tubereulosus.— Special attention has been called by Konig to the fact that tuberculous disease of joints sometimes commences as a rapid effusion into the joint of fluid, which in some cases is of the semi-purulent, flaky nature so characteristic of tuberculous pus, while in others the fluid is clear. He has therefore applied the terms empyema tuberculosum and hydrops tuber- eulosus to these affections. At first sight it is easy to mistake the con- dition for one of chronic synovitis with effusion, as there is no marked pain, although generally there is more than is met with in the latter condi- tion. The diagnosis is arrived at by observing that after a short time the synovial membrane begins to get thickened. This is in marked con- trast to the simple hydrops articuli, in which the effusion may exist for a long time without any distinct thickening of the synovial membrane. Von Pirquet's test (see Vol. I. p. 520) is often of help in making a correct diagnosis. The cases which commence with the effusion of a semi- purulent fluid into the joint are usually grave, and imply considerable malignancy of the bacilli. The treatment should generally be operative. The simplest plan consists in withdrawing the fluid by a trochar and canula, washing out the joint with a weak sublimate solution (i in 6000), and injecting into it two to four drachms of the 10 per cent, iodoform and glycerine emul- sion (see p. 118). Should the fluid re-accumulate, this procedure maybe repeated, and in any case the iodoform injections should be made once a