153 ANCHYLOSIS be remedied without dividing the union, and, as a rule, it is necessary to remove a certain amount of bone before the Hmb can be brought into position. In a knee, for example, which has undergone anchylosis in the flexed position, it may be necessary to take out a wedge to allow the limb to be brought straight. In remedying a faulty position of this kind it must be remembered that tendons and other structures around the joint have become altered in length, and may therefore offer obstacles to the proper replacement of the bones after the latter have been divided. If these structures are not dealt with, it may be necessary to take away an undue amount of bone before the limb can be brought straight, and this may cause material shortening. Hence the best procedure is first to remove rather less bone than is probably necessary to get the limb straight; then, after the limb has thus been loosened, it is easy to put the tendons and fascial structures on the stretch, and to divide any- thing that may be necessary. Firm extension is then made so as to stretch the soft structures, \\ hen, if advisable, more bone may be removed. It is, however, generally found that, after dividing the tight structures and employing steady traction, the displacement may be overcome with- out the removal of much bone. When the limb has been straightened, it is well to fix the bones in close apposition by plates or wires (see Vol. II. p. 303). It is important that this operation should not be performed until the growth of the limb is nearly complete, otherwise considerable shorten- ing and arrest of development may result. It is practically impossible to avoid encroaching upon the region of the epiphyseal line in any of the operations that involve taking out a wedge, and serious distortion of the limb from partial arrest of development may result. Cases of boiiv anchylosis hi ichicli a movable joint is required.—A typical example of this is the elbow-joint, in which excellent movement may be obtained after excision, provided that the anchylosis has not lasted long enough to have led to complete atrophy of the muscles around the joint. Recently, Dr. J. B. Murphy, of Chicago, has attempted to widen the scope of operations in this direction by means of artliroplastic methods that are very promising. The details vary with the joint concerned, but briefly his plan embraces the following steps. In the first place the bony union is divided, and the ends of the bones are shaped so as to retain the normal contour of the articular surfaces as far as possible. Flaps of fascia are then turned in over the ends of the bones so as to prevent fresh bony union. Lastly, after heahng has taken place, move- ment of the joint is begun, and massage and exercises are employed with the view of restoring the power of the disused muscles. The exact procedures vary according to the different joints. For example, in the case of the hip-joint the fascial flap used to cover the head of the femur is taken from over the great trochanter, and in order