344 AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD Fig. 146.—Forceps for removing depressed portions OF THE Skull. The blades are flattened and powerful; the teeth are directed backwards so as to ensure a good grip on the bone and to prevent slipping. in cases of gutter fracture, in which, even though the dura mater may not be actually torn, fragments of the internal table are generally sticking into its outer surface. Forceps suitable for this purpose are shown in Fig. 146. Should sufficient space not be obtained by the removal of the com- minuted fragments, it is usually quite easy to punch out further portions of bone with a pair of Hoffman's forceps (see Fig. 147) so as to give enough room. It must be remembered that the chief object of the operation is to raise aU the depressed bone and to remove any sharp edges of the internal table which may be projecting against the dura mater, and therefore sufficient space must be obtained in order to make sure that this object has been attained. When the fracture is not compound, the portion of bone removed by the trephine and any other large piece should be kept, in order that they may be replaced at the end of the opera- tion. The best way of keeping the fragments of bone is to raise the flap a little at one side with the handle of the knife, and to push them under the flap until they are required. In this way the bone remains bathed in senim and blood at the temperature of the body, and the bone cells are less likely to lose their vitality than if the fragments were placed in warm boric lotion or warm salt solution, as is usually recommended. Of course, the latter procedure must be followed, should the circum- stances of the case preclude the adoption of the former. In some cases, however, it will be found on cutting down on the fracture that there are no detached fragments, and it will then be necessary to open up the depressed area, by removing a portion of the bone with a trephine. The pin of the trephine must be applied on firm bone close to the line of the fracture, and rather more than a half circle of the uninjured bone should be taken away (see Fig. 148). This gives free access to the deeper parts, and permits elevation of the depressed fragments and removal Fig. 147.—Hoffman's Forceps. These forceps are used for cutting away portions of the skull piecemeal. They are very powerful punch forceps, the lower solid blade fitting into the hollow of the upper hollow one. They are made in all sizes and degrees of strength, and the beaks of the instruments are variously curved so as to facilitate their appUcation.