NERVOUS AFFFXTIONS 135 hyperplasia, and new bony outgrowths are met with at the articular edges of the bones, or masses of bone are deposited in the capsule. The relative amount of these changes depends largely on the joint affected ; in the hip and shoulder, for example, the changes are essentially atrophic and there is but little formation of new bone ; in the knee and the elbow, on the other hand, the atrophic changes, which at first are as marked as in the case of the other joints, are followed by considerable hyperplasia, and a large amount of new bone may be formed and may help to fix the articulation. Symptoms.—The most marked characteristics of Charcot's joint disease are the rapidity with which the changes occur—the joint may be entirely disorganised within a few days—and the extraordinary painlessness of the whole process. The first symptom is usually sudden swelling of the joint, to which the patient's attention is called by finding that the joint is somewhat stiff. The swelling is mainl}^ due to synovial effusion, but there may also be oedema of tlie structures around ; some- times the synovial membrane is so distended that it gives way and the fluid becomes diffused outside the joint. The effusion begins to disappear in a few weeks, but considerable enlargement of the articulation usually remains. The bursae around the joint are often distended with fluid. Soon after the onset of the disease, examination shows that the ends of the bones have undergone remarkable alterations. There is coarse, bony grating on moving the joint, while the normal outlines of the bones are lost. The ligaments undergo destruction to such an extent that a flail joint results, and the limb can be moved freely in abnormal directions, whilst it is often possible to produce dislocation and to reduce it again quite easily ; these movements cause no pain. When the patient has been bearing weight upon the limb, the chief destruction of bone will be found at the points of greatest pressure. In the cases accompanied by a tendency to hyperplasia, bony outgrowths will be found after a short time springing from the edges of the articular surfaces and embedded in the capsule ; if this process is extensive, sufficient fixation of the joint may occur after the lapse of some time to enable the patient to bear weight upon the limb. Indeed, it is sometimes remarkable how well the patient can walk with such a joint. Complications.—It is not uncommon for the capsule and the skin to give way, so that a sinus leads into the joint. It is, however, a remark- able fact that in a considerable number of cases in which no antiseptic precautions have been adopted, suppuration either does not occur, or, when it does, is only very slight, and is not marked by constitutional or local symptoms. Sometimes, however, the reverse is the case and acute arthritis is set up. A joint that is the seat of Charcot's disease may occasionally become the seat of tuberculosis. Several cases of this kind have been noted, and it is found that they run much the same course as other tuberculous joints.