479 TRIGEMINAL NEURALGIA lies immediately behind this ligament, and can generally be brought up into the wound with a small blunt hook. As it enters the foramen the nerve lies in close proximity to the inferior dental vessels, but is separated from them by a larger interval higher up. The nerve should not be mistaken for other structures in its vicinity, if proper care has been taken to define and divide the internal lateral ligament. The lingual nei've lies in front of, and internal to, the inferior dental, being separated from it by the internal lateral ligament, whilst the mylo-hyoid branch lies posteriorly in its own groove. When the nerve has been brought into the wound, it is grasped with a pair of Spencer Wells's forceps and divided first high up in the wound and then again lower down, as much of the trunk being removed as possible. The operation is tedious and difficult, and the surgeon is much hampered by the continual oozing from the wound. Unless care is taken in isolating the nerve, there may be considerable haemorrhage from a wound of the inferior dental or the internal maxillary artery. It is most important to have a good light during the operation, and a forehead lamp should be employed if strong daylight is not available No stitches need be inserted after the operation, and the month should be frequently washed out with a weak solution of sanitas (two drachms to the pint). There is often considerable swelling and stiffness about the jaws for some days after the operation, but this usually subsides entirely, although in some cases it persists for several weeks. If it does not subside, an ordinary Mason's gag should be introduced, an anfesthetic being administered, if necessary, and the jaw gently and slowly forced open ; this operation is repeated at intervals of a few days until free movement is obtained. Another and simpler method of reaching the nerve from the cheek by deepening the sigmoid notch finds a place in most of the text-books on operative surgery. On account of the scarring and possible risk of injury to important structures involved in this operation it is, however, very rarely employed. Neurectomy of tlie gustatory nerve.—The patient is placed in the same position as for the former operation, the mouth is widely opened with a gag, and the tongue pulled forcibly over to the opposite side, and at the same time drawn somewhat forwards with a tongue-clip. The nerve will then start up into relief immediately behind and below the last molar tooth. It lies behind the pterygo-maxillary ligament, and is easily felt by the finger in the mouth. An incision should be made along the line of the nerve through the mucous membrane ; the nerve is then drawn out and half an inch or more excised. Neurectomy of the auriculo-iemporal nerve.—This branch of the fifth nerve very rarely requires division. Should it do so, it can be excised through a vertical incision immediately in front of the ear, the centre of the incision being opposite the base of the zygoma. The nerve lies immediately posterior to the temporal artery.