DISLOCATION AND FRACTURE-DISLOCATION 271 paralysis of the intercostal muscles, and when it is in the lower cervical region all the accessory muscles of respiration are paralysed as well as the intercostals, and respiration is carried on by the diaphragm alone. In fracture above the third cervical vertebra death is usually immediate from paral3/sis of the phrenic as well as of the other respiratory nerves. As a result of the interference with the muscles of respiration in the fractures in the dorsal and lower cervical regions, there is a great tendency to imperfect expansion and aeration of the lungs, leading to congestion of the bases followed by hypostatic pneumonia ; this is a frequent cause of death. News ii'oitbles.—There are other changes common to all fractures of the spine accompanied by injury to the cord ; for example, the circulation is affected, the pulse being markedly irregular and often very rapid, whilst vascular disturbances—such as flushing—are frequent. The tempera- ture, at first at any rate, is usually subnormal. Trophic changes are met with in the paralysed parts, the most important being the occurrence of acute bed-sores which appear on any part subject to pressure, more especially over the sacrum. The shghtest pressure may lead to rapidly spreading gangrene of the skin, the pressure of one knee against the other being sufficient in some cases to cause it. These bed-sores are often fatal from septic infection. Cutaneous rashes, or bullae, are also frequently met with in the paralysed parts. PROGNOSIS.—The prognosis varies according to the region of the spine that is the seat of fracture, and according as the fracture affects the spinous processes and laminse or the bodies of the vertebrae. When the neural arches are fractured, the spinal symptoms are mainly due to depression of the fragments, and the compression which results does not necessarily give rise to miTch permanent damage to the spinal cord. Indeed, if means are taken to relieve the pressure at once, the patient may recover entirely. When the cauda equina alone is pressed upon, as is the case in fractures in the lower lumbar region, the recovery following removal of the pressure may be complete. In fracture of the bodies of the vertebrce the prognosis is much graver on account of the immediate and often irreparable damage done to the cord—a damage that can seldom be remedied by any attempt to relieve pressure. The prognosis is most favourable in fractures of the lumbar spine, and least in those about the upper dorsal and cervical regions. In fractures of the lumbar spine, even though there may be permanent paratysis of motion and sensation in the parts below, along with the attendant trophic changes, the patient may live for a long time, especiallv if the condition of the bladder is carefully attended to. The cause of death in these cases is usually either sepsis in connection with acute bedsore or septic infection of the urine, both of which can be guarded against, at any rate to a certain extent. When the fracture is in the dorsal region, the mortality is much greater.