ACUTE INFLAMMATION 99 GONOCOCCAL ARTHRITIS. During an attack of gonorrhoea, inflammation of joints may occur, which is clearly associated with the primary disease. The affection attacks not only the fibrous structures of joints, but also similar struc- tures over the body—such as the plantar and palmar fasciae and ligaments. Arthritis is a somewhat rare complication of gonorrhoea ; it is commonest in the knee, but the ankle and the hip are also frequently affected, whilst almost any joint in the body may be attacked. It may occur in several joints simultaneously. It does not appear at any fixed period in the disease, but is most usually met with between the third and sixth week after infection. There is no obvious relation between the acuteness of the gonorrhoea and the occurrence of the articular affection. When the urethral affec- tion has arrived at the gleety stage it is common to find by inspection through the urethroscope that there are congested patches in the urethra, through which probably the gonococci enter the blood and are carried to the articulation. In support of this view is the fact that the trouble not infrequently follows the passage of an instrument during tlie sub-acute or chronic stage. On the other hand, some constitutional condition seems to exist, which predisposes to the occurrence of the arthritis, for it is not uncommon to find that certain patients suffer from the affection every time they contract gonorrhoea. The disease occurs chiefly in men, but is met with in women. Examination of the fluid from the affected joint may demonstrate the presence of gonococci, whilst in certain cases of the more acute type the ordinary pyogenic organisms are also present. It is probable that these latter cases are really pyemic in nature rather than purely gonorrhoeal. VARIBTIBS.—Clinically the disease varies in acuteness indifferent cases. From the point of view of treatment we may differentiate four groups. {a) The simplest form is a painful affection of the joint without any swelling or synovial effusion. There is tenderness on pressure, with pain on moving the limb, and occasional shooting pains in the joint. There is here probably an inflammation of tlT.e fibrous structures around the joint rather than an affection of the synovial membrane itself. (b) The typical gonococcal arthritis is more acute. The first symptom is stiffness and slight swehing of the joint, which is soon followed by acute pain, lasting for several days, and accompanied by synovial effusion which is either clear or somewhat turbid from the presence of white corpuscles. The acute symptoms may subside in a week or ten da3-5, but a similar condition may affect another joint, and gonorrhoeal inflammation may H 2