DISEASES OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 203 upon the age of the patient, the condition of the joint, the extent of the disease, and the amount of suppuration. In children when the abscess is single and the condition is not advanced, the treatment should first be directed to the cure of the abscess. As has already been pointed out, abscesses may be treated by aspiration of the contents and the injection of iodoform emulsion into the cavity ; excision of the abscess wall ; incision, with removal of as much of the wall as possible ; and incision and scraping of the abscess wall followed by immediate irrigation and the injection of iodoform emulsion, and suture of the wound. In the majority of cases, aspiration should be employed in the first instance, but when the abscess is small and over one side of the joint—for example, over the inner condyle—it may be possible to dissect it out entire. When the abscesses are multiple and extensive, it will probably be necessary to employ one of the other methods. Both in children and in adults, liowever, the abscess should be treated first, and its size reduced before proceeding to further operative measures. If this is not done, the pus is very likely to infect the cut surfaces of the bone after excision or arthrectomy and thus to lead to recurrence of the tuberculous disease. An additional argument in favour of this line of treatment is that removal of the abscess, simultaneously with the performance of excision or arthrectomy, makes the operation much longer and more severe. Operative Treatment.—The adoption of further operative measures at this stage will depend on the severity of the disease and on the age of the patient. When the joint is much disorganised and the disease progressive or affecting the patient's health, operation will be indicated. When the patient is an adult, much time—months or even years—may be saved, and a better functional result obtained, by excision than by perseverance in expectant treatment. At this stage there is no hope of a movable joint being obtained, and afirmer and better unionwiU resultfrom excision. In children a considerably longer time may be devoted to expectant treatment, and when operation is necessary arthrectomy should be performed if possible. Amputation at the junction of the lower with the middle third of the femur is the best procedure in adults when the abscesses are numerous or large, when the joint is unduly movable—indicating marked destruction of the ligaments—or when the pain is great and the patient much emaciated and suffering from phthisis or tuberculosis elsewhere. In cutting the flaps care should be taken not to open the abscesses and thus soil the wound with tuberculous material. By an arthrectomy we understand the removal of the whole of the diseased tissues of the joint, leaving intact as much of the healthy structures as possible, and not dividing the bones on set lines as is done in excision. It is most important to bear in mind that the