AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD 410 completely with a piece of Lister's protective or gold-foil,, and apply outside that the ordinary gauze dressings in which a piece of block-tin is incorporated and kept in position by means of an elastic bandage. This dressing will requii^e changing daily ; if infection does not occur, the hernia may gradually recede, and entirely disappear in a week or ten days. As soon as the hernia has receded sufhcientlj^ an attempt may be made to close the wound ; a flap of skin can usually be brought over the opening in the skull, and any raw surface left by raising the flap can be covered by skin-grafts (see Vol. I. p. 52). {b) Of hernice occurring two or three days after an operation or injury.— The object of treatment in this group of cases should be to render the hernia aseptic, if possible, and then to prevent further protrusion. The surface of the protrusion should be shaved off; there need be no hesitation in removing a considerable portion, seeing that it contains very little healthy cerebral substance. After the bleeding has been arrested by pressure and before any adhesions are separated, the raw surface is thoroughly swabbed with undiluted carbolic acid. It is important to disinfect the surface before separating adhesions, so as to avoid carrying septic material into the deeper structures. As a rule, all this can be done without an anaesthetic because the protruded mass is insensitive. The surface is then powdered with sterilised iodoform, and a piece of Lister's protective oiled silk or thin sheet-rubber applied over it ; a gauze dressing which overlaps the protective widely in all directions is then put on. A piece of block-tin may be incorporated with the dress- ings and additional pressure exerted by means of an elastic bandage. If the sepsis has been got rid of in this waj^ and if no intra-cranial inflam- matory mischief (such as an abscess in the brain) is going on, the surface of the herniated portion will often granulate, and the mass shrinks and disappears. An attempt should then be made to cover in the surface of the brain if it is large, and with this object the edges of the wound should be freed for some distance and stitched together, or a flap may be turned in over the hernia if there is much tension, and the space from which it has been taken may be skin-grafted. In some cases the hernia is accompanied by intra-cranial suppuration ; the prognosis is then very hopeless. The surface of the hernia should be removed in the manner described above, and sinus forceps should be introduced into the brain beneath the hernia, and their blades expanded so as to ascertain if any pus is present. If an abscess is found, the cavity should be dealt with as described on p. 402. SINUS THROMBOSIS. The venous sinuses in the skull are probably more predisposed to the occurrence of thrombosis than most other veins, owing to their anatomical characters and the peculiarities of the circulation through