236 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS TUBERCULOUS DISEASE. Tuberculous disease of the shoulder-joint is not uncommon and is mainly met with in adult life, being most frequent between the ages of twenty and thirty. As in the other joints, the disease may be primary either in the synovial membrane or in the bone, more commonly the latter. The primary osseous deposits occur most frequently in the great tuberosity of the humerus, and much less commonly in the neck of the scapula. In some cases the acromion process may be the primary seat of the mischief, but when this bone is affected it is usually secondary to tuberculous disease of the deltoid bursa. When the deposit reaches the surface of the bone, it is not uncommon for the deltoid bursa to be infected, with the result that a soft fluctuating swelling forms beneath the muscle often containing rice-like bodies, which manifest themselves by their peculiar creaking sensation on manipulation. In the early stages of the disease there is increased fullness about the shoulder, with swelling in the axilla, and considerable limitation of movement of the arm, which is held in an abducted position and rotated inwards. In the later stages there is very marked pain on movement, the arm being kept rigidly applied to the side and rotated inwards; later still, abscesses form and point in front of or behind the deltoid. It is not uncommon to find an abscess travelling along the bicipital groove and coming to the surface beneath the skin about the centre of the front of the arm. In other cases it may open into the axilla, and sometimes about the lower limit of the posterior border of the deltoid. TREATMENT.—The same general rules must guide the surgeon in the treatment of tuberculous disease of this joint as in the case of tuber- culous joint disease elsewhere. There are, however, certain special points which may be referred to. Expectant treatment.—Recovery from the disease in this situation is practically always followed by stiffness of the joint, which is a great disability to the patient. Moreover, unless very special care be taken to prevent it, and often in spite of such care, stiffness will occur with the arm in such a position that the limb is rendered very useless ; that is to say, it is rotated inwards and closely applied to the side. If expectant treatment is to be employed, the Hmb should be abducted to about 45°, and kept midway between extreme inward and outward rotation, that is to say with the forearm looking almost directly forwards. Abduction can be secured by a large wedge-shaped pad in the axilla with the base downwards (see Fig. 95), whilst the forearm should be flexed to a right angle. The elbow may be fixed by a plaster of Paris casing or a moulded splint; if desired, the shoulder may be left uncovered so that local applications, may be made to it.