342 AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD fracture—for instance, one caused by a bayonet—a small and smooth hole in the external table is all that is noticeable from the outside, but the internal table is usually considerably detached and the fragments project against the dura mater, and may even perforate it, in which case their sharp edges may project into the brain itself. It is important to remember that, however insignificant the external wound may appear, there is certain to be considerable and serious damage to the internal table, which must be remedied. In these cases also, the instru- ment itself is very likely to puncture the dura mater and lead to haemorrhage from the vessels in it, or even from those on the surface of the brain. In sword or axe-wounds the essential conditions are the same, except that, instead of a hole in the external table, there is a long cut—the so-called ' gutter fracture.' The internal table in these cases is also extensively broken up and depressed. As these fractures are always compoimd, they are liable to be foUowed by suppuration. TREATMENT.—I. Of a simple Fissure—Very httle in the way of active treatment is required in these cases ; unless accompanied by some intra-cranial lesion the injury is only recognised when the fracture is compound, and the treatment is then similar to that of a scalp woimd (see p. 328). The disinfection of the wound should be thorough, and, provided it is effectual, the patient will be apparently well after a few days' rest in bed. Every fracture of the skull, however, is of necessity accompanied by some amount of injury to the brain, and although the patient may exhibit no definite symptoms pointing to an intra-cranial lesion, he will none the less be unable to carry out work requiring mental effort and concentration for a considerable time. It is therefore advisable after all cases of serious head injury to prescribe a long period of rest and abstinence from mental work and excitement. In some cases these fissures are followed by intra-cranial haemorrhage or intra-cranial suppuration, and in these appropriate treatment must be adopted ; otherwise nothing need be done in the way of operation in the first instance. When the fissures are extensive and numerous, and when there is some irregularity about the edges, however, it may be well to make a small trephine opening so as to ascertain the condition of the internal table. The procedure is the same as that described below for other forms of fracture. 2, Of Depressed Fracture.—It may be laid down as an axiom that the depressed fragments should be elevated or removed, any detached portions of bone taken away, and all haemorrhage arrested, without waiting for cerebral symptoms to supervene. Hence, operation is advisable in all cases of depressed fracture, except the saucer-like depressions in young infants (see p. 340), whether the fracture be simple or compound, and the sooner the operation is performed after the patient has recovered from the shock the better. Simple depressed fracture.—The first procedure is to shave the scalp