74 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS of the astragalus from the tibio-fibular arch against which it is lodged. When sufficient traction has been made, the foot is either flexed or extended according to the nature of the displacement; when the foot is displaced backwards, the plantar flexion of the foot is increased, the foot is pulled forcibly forwards and downwards, and then rapidly dorsi-flexed. In a dislocation of the foot forwards, movements in the reverse direction are practised ; traction is made and the dorsal flexion is increased ; then, while traction is maintained, the foot is pushed back- wards and is finally plantar-flexed. Movements should be begun on the day following the accident; the after-treatment will be practically that for fracture of the lower end of the tibia or fibula, as the case may be. In this type of injury the whole of the foot undergoes dislocation witli the exception of the astragalus, which remains in position rests upon the upper surface of the scaphoid or the internal cuneiform. The posterior articular surface of the astragalus generaUy lies upon the anterior articular surface of the os calcis, the dislocation at the calcaneo- astragaloid joint being only partial. The injury is generally produced by indirect violence, such as occurs when a patient alights from a height upon the toes, which are deflected to one side, while the weight of the body forces the ankle and the astragalus forwards and to the other side. The lateral displacement depends upon the particular position of the .foot when the violence is applied. In the usual form the foot is extended, and there is a prominence on the instep in the neighbourhood of the scaphoid due to protrusion of the head of the astragalus. The tendo Achillis is widely separated from the back of the tibia and is very tense, whilst the heel is unduly prominent. DISLOCATIONS OF THE FOOT. SUB-ASTRAGALAR DISLOCATION. Fig. 40.—SuB-ASTRAGALAR DISLOCATION. In this case the astragalus remains in place beneath the tibio-fibular arch. beneath the tibio-fibular arch. The essential lesions are rupture of the connections between the astragalus and the os calcis, on the one hand, and those be- tween the former bone and the scaphoid on the other. The foot usually undergoes a double displacement, being dislocated either forwards or backwards and to one side ; the most common displacement is back- wards and outwards, and in this form the head of the astragalus