AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 214 HYSTERICAL CONDITIONS. These must be treated similarly to hysterical joint disease elsewhere (see p. 137). When true contracture occurs, it may be necessary to divide the hamstring tendons. The majority of these may be divided subcutaneously where they are most prominent, but the biceps tendon should be divided through an open incision ; if the operation is done subcutaneously, the external popliteal nerve runs a risk of being injured. HMOPHILIA. Effusion of blood into the knee is not at all uncommon in haemophilic patients, the joint swelling up suddenly and becoming distended with blood after a slight injury or without any injury at all. TREATMENT.—The limb should be placed at rest on a splint in the elevated position, the patient being recumbent, and an ice-bag or evapor- ating lotions (see Vol. I. p. 8) should be applied. The general treatment of hcemophilia is unsatisfactory, but it is well to administer lactate of calcium in ten-grain doses in the hope of increasing the coagulability of the blood. Normal horse serum may also be used for the same purpose. Massage and aspiration shoidd be avoided on account of the risk of increasing the bleeding. Passive movement must be very cautiously resorted to after the effusion has disappeared. When frequent effusion occurs into joints, osteo-arthritic changes are very likely to take place. INTERNAL DERANGEMENT OF THE KNEE-JOINT. The knee is especially liable to the various forms of disability formerly classed under the term ' internal derangements of the knee-joint.' These may be subdivided into two main groups : (i) Actual loose bodies—-the so-called loose cartilages (see p. 149) ; and (2) villous fringes in the joint (see p. 107), detachment of the ligamenta alaria, or injuries to the semilunar cartilages (see p. 68). LOOSE CARTILAGES. These are not uncommon in the knee joint, and their symptoms have already been described (see p. 149). The patient frequently identifies the loose body slipping about in the joint, but, whether this is so or not, the symptoms will usually lead to an accurate diagnosis. TREATMENT.—The only treatment possible is to remove the loose body. It is, however, extremely unsatisfactory to open a joint like the knee, in which there are so many recesses, however certain one may be that a loose body is present, unless it can actually be felt. It is quite easy for the cartilage to slip away into some recess and to