WOUNDS 87 inflammation be mild, and tlie case be seen comparatively early, the surgeon should try to save the limb in a young patient. If, on the other hand, the inflammation is very acute, the pain extremely severe, and the suppuration profuse, or if there are abscesses around the joint, the best procedure is to amputate. Amputation.—As a rule, amputation should be performed through the bone above the joint, but when the bone is divided the medullary cavity must be carefully inspected to see whether it is inflamed. Should this be the case, either a second amputation must be performed higher vip, or the remains of the bone or bones must be dissected out as far as the joint above. Drainage.—In any attempt to save tlie joint, the first essential Fig. 43.—Wire-netting Splint. The illustration shows the msthod of incor- porating these splints with the dressing. A few layers of gauze are placed directly over the wound, and then a large sheet of gauze is wrapped around the limb ; out- side this the wire-netting is moulded to the limb, and when this has been done, the gauze is turned down over the free edges of the splint, and more dressing is added I over the region of the wound outside the netting. In the figure above, two lateral splints of this netting are being applied, suitable for a wound of the ankle-joint. is free drainage, and the second is to fix the limb in the position which will be most useful to the patient should anchylosis occur. Free incisions must be made into the joint so as to open up and give free access to every recess, and large drainage tubes must be inserted ; small incisions and small drainage tubes are of little value. The skin around the joint should be disinfected in the usual manner and the joint itself should be washed out with sterilised normal saline solution. Following these incisions the best methods of treatment are continuous irrigation or the water-bath, preferably the former. Continuous Irrigation.—In carrying out continuous irrigation the limb should be fixed upon a splint, and one of the most useful forms is one composed of wire-netting or perforated zinc (see Fig. 43) cut to shape and moulded so as to fit the limb accurately. The great advantage of this form of splint is that the discharge cannot soak into it and make it