CHAPTER VI. DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. Traumatic dislocation of the hip usually occurs in healthy adult males as the result of severe violence applied to the lower extremity while the hip-joint is flexed and abducted; similar violence applied to the fully extended limb is more likely to give rise to a fracture of the neck of the femur than to a dislocation. The spontaneous and congenital forms of dislocation are dealt with elsewhere in connection with diseases of joints and deformities respectively. VARIETIES. — The traumatic dislocations are divided into (i) the regular dislocations of the hip, which comprise the posterior and the anterior dislocations ; and (2) the irregular dislocations, in which there is coexisting injury to structures which remain intact in the regular forms. The points that have to be remembered in connection with these dislocations are: that the acetabulum is shallowest at its lower part— where it is also somewhat defective—and that a very strong ligament, called from its shape the Y-ligament, extends from the region of the anterior inferior spine of the ilium downwards across the front of the joint and ends in two bands, one of which passes vertically downwards to the base of the lesser trochanter, whilst the other runs horizontally outwards to be inserted into the outer and upper end of the anterior inter-trochanteric line. This ligament is very strong, and great violence is required to rupture it. The Y-ligament is the principal factor that determines the particular form of the displacement ; in the regular dis- locations it is always intact. It is, moreover, one of the chief agents in aiding reduction. Another structure that plays an important part in dislocations of the hip is the tendon of the obturator internus muscle. This muscle arises from the inner surface of the obturator foramen and the fascia covering it, passes out of the pelvis through the lesser sacro-sciatic notch, where it is joined by the two gemelli, and with them is inserted into the digital fossa at the back of the femur. The tendon acts as a powerful reinforcement