AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS i68 in mind that the limb is apt to become rotated outwards unless special care is taken ; Fig. 55 shows an arrangement for this purpose. When the case is very acute, it is well to employ a mattress divided into three parts ; the narrow central part is beneath the pelvis and is again divided into two lateral halves, so that one-half of it can be removed for nursing purposes without disturbing the patient. In the first stage of the disease, there is often no marked pain or muscular contraction. This is especially the case in primary synovial disease, and here extension is not called for-—at any rate, at first; indeed, by stretching the ligaments it may do harm instead of good. The patient should be put to bed, and a Liston's long splint applied to the affected side, while sand-bags are placed along the other side of the body. Absolute rest in bed must be maintained for some time. As improvement takes place, the time arrives (usually in three or four months) when the rigid confinement to bed can be given up and arrangements made by which the patient can be moved about and taken into the open air; the joint, however, must still be kept fixed. Various forms of apparatus may be employed, the most useful at this stage being, in adults a single Thomas's splint, and in children a plaster of Paris casing, a double Thomas's splint, or a Phelps's box. As Thomas's hip splint is used in all stages of the disease, and often very badly fitted, we may describe Thomas's own method here. The sphnt consists of a long, flat bar of malleable iron running down the back of the trunk and the affected extremity, from the axilla to just above the ankle. It runs vertically from the thorax down to the level of the hip-joint. It is there bent with its concavity forward to fit the buttock, and finally it is continued straight down behind the thigh and leg. The lower vertical portion is parallel to the upper, but lies on a plane somewhat anterior to it. The upper part of the bar is twisted a Httle, so that it lies flat against the side of the trunk, whilst the lower part runs down the middle of the limb behind (see Fig. 60, A). There are three d A Fig. 60.—Thomas's Hip Spi.int. A shows the splint previous to use ; the wings, a, surround the leg just below the knee, while those at b enclose the thigh well above it. The stout metal band, c, encircles the chest, and the splint is kept in place partly by bandages and partly by the braces, d. B is the patten fastened to the boot on the sound side by the screw plates, e.