AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS foul, that it can be incorporated with any dressing or even apphed next the skin, whilst at the same time it is easily procurable, does not require to be specially made, is cheap, and can be sterilised by boiling. When the splint has been applied, irrigation should be provided (see Vol. I. p. 32). The skin around the wound should be smeared with eucalyptus vaseline, and mackintoshes should be arranged around the limb, so that the fluid is conducted into some suitable receptacle. The nozzle of the irrigator should then be connected with the orifice of one of the drainage tubes entering the joint at its highest level (see Fig. 44). The fluid, which should be at the body temperature, should travel slowly through the tubes, and if necessary the nozzle should be disconnected from time to time and attached to different drainage tubes so as to flush out the joint effectually. It is important to avoid the use of antiseptics which coagulate al- bumen or destroy the cells ; the best lotions are very weak solu- tions of permanganate of potash (2 grs. to the oz.), sanitas, or tincture of iodine (a drachm to the pint). The Water-hath. — When ir- rigation cannot be practised, the limb should be immersed in a water-bath (see Vol. I. p. 34) containing one of the antisep- tics just mentioned; it should at first be kept in the bath night and day, being taken out from time to time for the purpose of cleaning out the bath. The water in the bath should be at the normal body temperature. As improvement occurs, the limb may be taken out at night and wrapped up in warm boric fomentations. Should it be impossible to employ either irrigation or the water-bath, the next best treatment is to use cyanide gauze dressings, for considerable benefit will be derived from the disinfection of the discharge that occurs in them, although the wound itself is infected. The dressings should be changed at first twice daily, and later on, when the discharge decreases. Fig. 44.—Constant Irrigation applied to the Knee-joint. The nozzle of the irrigator is inserted into one end of the supra-patellar drainage tube and a constant flow is thus maintained through the joint. The fluid is conducted by means of a mackintosh, appropriately arranged as above, into a suitable re- ceptacle. For the sake of clearness, the splint fi.xing the joint has been omitted.