TUBERCULOSIS antiseptically the pyogenic organisms may die out, or become much reduced in virulence. Should it be found after a reasonable time,, that the sinuses show no tendency to heal, and should the discharge from them be free, one of the radical operations must be considered. This will be more often called for in adults, especially in old people, in whom there is little likelihood of the sinuses healing. At first sight it would seem that arthrectomy is out of the question in these cases, because the large raw surface left after the operation might become infected from the sinus. As a matter of experience we have found, that if care is taken to scrape these sinuses and disinfect them with undiluted carbohc acid before commencing the operation, and then to dis- sect them out along with the rest of the tuberculous tissue, the chances of sepsis are shght, particularly if the wound be afterwards sponged over with undiluted carbolic acid and good drainage arranged for. Hence we are of opinion that the presence of septic sinuses is not necessarily a contra-incUcation to arthrectomy or excision. With regard to the choice between excision and amputation, that will depend upon the number of sinuses, on the amount of sepsis, on the general condition of the patient, and on the presence or absence of tuberculous disease elsewhere. In all cases when the patient is unable to stand a prolonged operation, excision is not advisable, for the removal of the septic sinuses adds considerably to the length of the operation, and consequently increases the shock and loss of blood. 8. Cases accompanied by anchylosis and deformity with or without sinuses.—These cases occur when the disease has been neglected or when splints have either not been apphed at all or have been inefficient. The limb may be quite useless from malposition, and the treatment of this complication will depend upon the stage at which the disease has arrived, for the case may come under notice either while the disease is still active or after it has subsided and only the deformity is left. When the disease is still active, an attempt may be made to restore the limb to its proper position either by mechanical means, or by operative measures. When the deformity is slight, splints or other apparatus may be employed, but care must be taken to rectify the malposition gradually and without force. When the deformity has been forcibly reduced the result commonly is that marked exacerbation of the disease occurs. Attempts to improve the position of the hmb must therefore be made very gradually and gently during the active stage of the disease, and much can be done either by aUowing the weight of the limb itself to tell—as is done by Thomas's sphnt in flexion of the hip-joint—or by gentle extension with weights or elastic bands. When the activity of the disease is considerable there is, however, considerable risk in attempting to restore the limb to its proper position by mechanical means, and the question of operative interference must HI. K