INFLAMMATION OF THE PAROTID GLAND 555 When a calculus has become impacted in Stenson's duct, the parotid gland swells and becomes hard, and this may cause considerable enlarge- ment of the gland. The blocking of the duct is usually incomplete, but suffices to cause a certain amount of hindrance to the flow of saliva, especially when that is secreted in large quantities as at meal-times. Suppuration seldom occurs. TREATMENT.—When the inflammation is due to the administration of mercury, the use of the drug should be suspended at once. Hot fomenta- tions should be applied over the swollen gland, chlorate of potash given in doses of ten grains four times a day, and the mouth washed out frequently with a gargle of chlorate of potash, or some antiseptic or astringent mouth-wash, such as sanitas or alum. The condition may or may not end in suppuration. When the inflammation is due to a calculus impacted in Stenson's duct, the obvious treatment is to remove the calculus, when the inflammation will subside at once and the thickening of the gland will gradually disappear. The methods of removing these calculi are described in connection with salivary calculus {vide infra). An abscess in the parotid gland occurri}ig in the course of infective diseases, such as pyjemia or typhoid fever, or after an abdominal operation, should be opened as soon as it is evident that pus is present ; otherwise it may burrow deeply in the neck. When open- ing these abscesses the external incision should be made as small as is consistent with thorough evacuation of the pus, it should be horizontal and situated behind the angle of the jaw, and should not go deeper than the capsule of the gland. As soon as the latter is reached, the knife should be laid aside and a channel burrowed into the abscess cavity with a pair of dressing forceps. When the cavity is reached, the separation of the blades of the forceps in an antero-posterior direction (in order to avoid tearing the branches of the nerve) will enable a satisfactory opening to be made, through whicii a good-sized drainage tube can be introduced. The subsequent treatment is similar to that for acute abscess elsewhere. Mumps is a disease which only accidentally comes under the notice of the surgeon. Usually both parotid glands become infected \\'ithin a short time of each other, and in some cases also the other salivary glands. The affection is generally devoid of danger, and the pain and swelling subside after a few days. In some cases orchitis in the male, or mastitis or ovaritis in the female, may occur as a complication ; sup]nuation very rarely takes place. Treatment.—Hot fomentations should be applied, the patient put on a fluid or semi-fluid diet, kept in a warm room until the inflamma- tory symptoms have abated, and isolated until the infectious period has passed {i.e. about three weeks). A simple saline mixture containing nitrate of potash and sulphate of magnesia may be administered.