AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 244 The question of excision may arise in these cases because it is diffi- cult to drain the joint properly and because the ultimate result will be a stiff joint. We have already discussed the question of excision in cases of septic inflammation of joints (p. 86), and for the reasons there stated we would avoid it if possible. It may, however, be worth risking this operation in preference to amputation when the patient is a young and vigorous adult, the wound being left open, and irrigation or the water bath being employed; should signs of osteo-myelitis set in, amputation must be performed at once. When, however, the acute stage has passed and only chronic sinuses are left, there is not the same risk in excision, and, if care is taken to disinfect the sinuses with undiluted carbolic acid and free drainage of the wound is kept up, excision is quite permissible. When the condition is very severe, amputation through the upper arm may be required, and, when this is done, the state of the medulla must be carefully examined, for osteo-myelitis is not uncommon. ACUTE AND CHRONIC SYNOVITIS. Distension of the elbow-joint with fluid shows itself by a fluctuating swelling on either side of the olecranon. The movements of the joint are considerably interfered with, flexion particularly being diminished and causing considerable pain. The position assumed by the limb when the joint is distended is one of slight flexion. TREATMENT.—The joint should be immobilised, with the elbow at a right angle and the forearm midway between pronation and supina- tion, and if there is much pain, an ice-bag or evaporating lotions may be applied. The treatment of these affections is fully described in Chap. XII. OSTEO-ARTHRITIS. This joint is often affected with osteo-arthritis, and the lesions are usually well marked. The condition not infrequently follows fractures extending into the joint. Osteophytic outgrowths are usually well marked and a villous condition of the synovial membrane is not uncommon, particularly between the olecranon and the condyles. TREATMENT.—The general treatment of osteo-arthritis has already been dealt with (see p. 143). Excision combined with Murphy's arthroplasty to prevent anchylosis (see p. 153) may be advantageously performed in cases in which the osteophytes are numerous and the joint is stiff and painful. LOOSE CARTILAGES. After the knee, the elbow is perhaps the most frequent seat of these bodies. They are most commonly met with in the olecranon fossa.