159 DISEASES OF THE HIP-JOINT take place before the infection can spread, and thus makes a barrier against extension of the infection. In some cases, however, it will be found that the cut surface of the neck of the femur becomes necrosed ; the fragment will separate in three or four months and must then be removed. Before the wound is closed, one or more large drainage tubes (size No. 18) must be introduced into the joint from the front as well as from behind. Antiseptic dressings are applied, and the hip is put up in tlie abducted position, with sufficient weight e.xtension to keep the limb from becoming flexed. The trunk is fixed between sand-bags and the arrangement shown in Fig. 55 is placed behind the knee, in order to prevent rotation of the limb. It is also well to use a divided mattress, so as to avoid un- necessary movement when the bedpan is used and the dressings are changed. When the osteo-myelitis affects the acetabulum, the results of treatment are not so satisfactory. The joint becomes distended with pus, and must be opened in the manner just described. It will be necessary to remove the head of the bone to get proper access to the acetabu- lum, and that cavity should be gouged out, and the diseased area removed as completely as possible. The whole thickness of the bot- tom of the acetabulum should be taken away, so as to make sure that any collection of pus on the inner wall of the pelvis is properly drained. Ex- amination by the rectum should be made from time to time to ascertain if any pus is accumulating in the pelvis. If an accumulation is present and the pus cannot escape through the wound, it should be evacuated through an incision at the inner side of the tuber ischii. Pus may also be found in the iliac fossa, and must be let out through an incision made internal to the anterior superior iliac sj^ine, care being taken not to open the peritoneal cavity. If the patient recovers, the joint will almost certainly become an- chylosed; and therefore, during the period of recovery, the hmb must be kept in the abducted position. Murphy's arthroplasty (see p. 153) may Fig. 55.—Method of Preventing Rotation of the Femur during Weight Extensiom. A plnster of Paris bandage is applied to tlie knee and made to include a piece of board placed behind the limb as sliown in the figure.