310 AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE Abscess.—We have already described the treatment of chronic abscess generally (see Vol. I. p. 233) ; in spinal disease we usually adopt the plan of washing out and scraping the abscess, injecting iodoform and glycerine, and stitching up the skin wound again, or else we employ repeated aspiration with or without injection of various fluids. It is only in abscess connected with posterior disease, especially of the spines, or in some rare cases of cervical abscess, that one can dissect out the abscess wall and deal with the diseased bone. The abscess should be opened at the point which gives the freest access to the whole cavity, but at the same time the opening should be made as far as possible from sources of contamination so that, should union by first intention fail, the dressings are not likely to be soiled. The best situation for opening a retro-pharyngeal abscess is behind the sterno-mastoid ; it should never be opened from the pharynx. An incision is made parallel to the upper third of the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, above the point of exit of the spinal accessory nerve ; after dividing the deep fascia, the muscle is lifted up, and the finger or a blunt instrument is gradually insinuated behind the vessels and in front of, and close to, the transverse processes and bodies of the vertebra, until the abscess cavity is reached and the pus let out. A sharp spoon is then introduced and the abscess wall thoroughly scraped, care being taken not to perforate the wall of the pharynx ; sometimes the actual focus of disease in the spine can be reached, and a sequestrum or a caseous deposit removed. A small quantity of iodoform and glycerine is then injected, and the wound stitched up. Should the cavity fill up again or should healing fail to occur, it is easy to open up the wound and repeat the process, or insert a tube. When the disease is in the lower cervical region and the abscess is in the posterior triangle, the greater part of the wall can usualU^ be removed and the affected bone scraped or gouged away. When the disease affects the dorsal vertebrae, the pus accumulates in many cases in the posterior mediastinum, pushing forwards the pleura. A radiogram will often reveal the presence of a large collection of pus in this situation, even although there are no external signs of it. The operation of costo-transversectonty may be advantageously performed under these circumstances. A curved incision is made over the site of the abscess on one side of the spinous processes, the centre of the incision being opposite the most prominent spinous process (see Fig. 131). The transverse processes which are removed should belong to the vertebrae which are most diseased—that is, those nearest the maxmium point of curvature —an(f, when possible, the operation should be done on the right side. A radiogram will often indicate on which side the operation should be performed, as frequently the pus is shown to be more on one side than on the other. The muscles are detached from the spinous and transverse processes of the vertebrae most affected, and are then pulled outwards