4i6 AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD Various plastic procedures have been tried for the closure of the osseous defect, but have not been very successful and cannot be recommended. If the defect is large, some form of shield must be incorporated with the dressing. As a palliative procedure, repeated tapping with a fine trochar and cannula may be practised. The usual antiseptic precautions must be taken and the instrument should always be inserted through the most healthy part of the skin. The head should be kept lowered and the fluid allowed to escape slowly. A collodion dressing is put over the puncture, and a mass of wool and a firm bandage applied outside it. In some cases, lumbar puncture (see p. 442) may be a better method of relieving the pressure, but there is nothing curative in this procedure. MICROCEPHALUS. This condition has attracted much attention, but it cannot be said that any material benefit has resulted from treatment. In microcephalus the head is abnormally small, and this probably results from imperfect development of the brain. The disease has been supposed to be due to a premature ossification of the skull preventing the due expansion of the brain, and on this theory extensive operations have been undertaken with the view of loosening portions of the skull, and so allowing expansion of the brain to take place. It is most probable, however, that the disease is primarily due to interference with the development of the brain, and that the early ossification is the result of the non-development of this organ. The operations cannot be said to have been followed by any marked success, and it is questionable whether they are really justifiable ; we cannot advise their performance. HYDROCEPHALUS. This is the term applied to abnormal collections of cerebro-spinal fluid within the cranial cavity, accompanied by marked enlargement of the head. When the fluid is present in the ventricles, the condi- tion is known as hydrocephalus iniernus; when it is outside the brain, as hydrocephalus externus. The latter condition is probably very rare. Hydrocephalus may be congenital or it may be developed during the early years of life. There is still a good deal of uncertainty as to its pathology. The congenital cases are ascribed to imperfect develop- ment of the brain, or to meningitis occurring during or soon after intra-uterine life, leading to the formation of adhesions between the cerebellum and the upper part of the medulla. The most constant pathological condition found in connection with hydrocephalus is chronic basal meningitis, and it is probable that this is the main cause both of the congenital and the acquired cases. The meningeal inflammation is usually dependent either on syphihs or