544 AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE difficultV with the D and T—in fact, in the early stages of training one frequently finds D, G, K, and T entirely missing. If there is also hare-lip one naturally finds trouble with the labials P and B. All words con- taining subordinate vowels on the " EE " resonator—such as " British," " little," " singing," and words beginning with " s," when joined to another consonant as in "ship," "stoop," and "speak"—will be a cause of considerable trouble before improvement is attained. ' As the training progresses the main vowels, when used in combination in various words as, for instance, " ah " and " oo " in " town," " aw " and " ee " in " boy," " oh " and " oo " in " boat," must be given their definite positions, and words containing subordinate vowels, as previously instanced, must have their main vowel position recognised and correctly shaped for. By so doing overtones and harmonics will occur in the vocal resonators and the voice will, in consequence, have a much improved quality. ' The voice-training of cleft palate cases after operation is extremely interesting and differs considerably from that of every other form of speech defect. The treatment of the air column is a very difficult matter until the patient learns how to manipulate it with skill; sometimes it must be full and powerful, and at other times it will have to be light and rapidly dealt with. It is remarkable how cleverly, in most cases, the patient learns what is necessary for improvement in the voice. When the required knowledge is combined with regularity in carrying out daily physical, breathing and vocal exercises one may, within a reasonable time, expect the voice, in less severe cases, to become very nearly normal and the cleft to be unsuspected, but in all cases one can certainly anticipate a very definite improvement both in the quality of the voice and in clearness of enunciation.' Mechanical Treatment.—In some cases it is evident that closure is of the gap will not benefit the patient ; for example, the operation not likely to succeed when the cleft is very wide and the flaps can only meet with difficulty, when the soft palate is badly developed, when failure of former operations has left a shrunken soft palate, or when the patient does not come under observation until adult life has been reached. Under these circumstances, there is practically no hope of any real benefit from operation, as the palate is so short that it cannot reach the back of the pharynx and, therefore, the nasal voice and trouble in feeding continue in spite of closure of the cleft. Under such circum- stances, the patient will be more comfortable with an obturator than with a partially closed palate ; indeed, the latter interferes very much with the fitting of a suitable obturator. These obturators can be made to supply the place of both the hard and the soft palate. They are difficult to fit, but when properly fitting, they are better than a faulty operative result. As a rule they cannot be fitted before the age of six