54 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS to the posterior part of the capsule of the joint, and determines the particular form of dislocation when the head of the bone is dislocated backwards ; when the head of the bone lies below the tendon, the dis- placement is known as a sciatic dislocation, and when it lies above it, as a dorsal dislocation. The regular dislocations are all primarily sub-cotyloid, as the head of the bone always escapes from the acetabulum at its lower part, the inferior portion of the capsule being torn. The sub-cotyloid position is, however, one of unstable equilibrium, and a further displacement invari- ably occurs, the head always passing either backwards or fomards, the direction that it takes being mainly determined by the direction of the force producing the injury, and the position of the limb at the time of the accident. The Regular Dislocations.—The regular dislocations of the hip- namely, those in which the Y-ligament and the margin of the acetabulum remain intact—are divided into four groups, in two of which the head of the bone passes backwards, while in the remaining two it is found in front of the acetabulum. These dislocations are classified as follows :— 1. The most common are the backward dislocations, and of these the true dorsal dislocation is the more frequent. The head of the bone, after leaving the acetabulum, passes backwards and upwards around its posterior margin, and finally rests upon the dorsum ilii, above the tendon of the obturator internus. 2. Instead of passing above the obturator tendon, the head of the bone may rest below it, and is thereby guided backwards until it reaches the sciatic notch ; this is termed the sciatic dislocation. 3. After leaving the acetabulum, the head of the bone may pass obliquely inwards and forwards until it rests over the obturator foramen— the thyroid dislocation. 4. In other cases, the head of the bone does not remain over the thyroid foramen, but travels upwards and inwards, and is then found in the neighbourhood of the spine of the pubes—the pubic dislocation. Two other regular forms of dislocation are described, namely, the supraspinous, in which the head of the bone lies above the anterior inferior ihac spine ; and the everted dorsal form, in which the head of the bone lies upon the dorsum ilii, but is directed forwards instead of backwards. In both of these rare dislocations the outer limb of the Y-ligament is torn. The Irregiilar Dislocations-- -These are always accompanied by rupture of the Y-ligament or fracture of the acetabulum ; hence the head of the bone, instead of passing out through the lower part of the capsule and then travelling either foi-wards or backwards, may leave the acetabulum anywhere, and generally passes upwards. Many of the signs characteristic of the regular dislocations are therefore absent.