AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE 504 a considerable time must be allowed to elapse after the ulceration has ceased ; unless the patient has completely recovered from the disease, ulceration is very apt to recur in the scar tissue after operation. The particular operation performed in these cases depends upon the situation and extent of the cicatrix. When this is comparatively small and close to the lower eyelid, the operation introduced by Wharton Jones is quite satisfactory (see Fig. 232). A V-shaped incision is made below the eyelid with its apex downwards, the skin and fat are dissected up, the lower eyelid loosened so that it comes into place, and the two sides of the V stitched together, the result being a Y-shaped scar. This method may also be employed when the ectropion is due to adhesion of a scar to the orbital margin or even to the malar bone. In the latter case, one side of the V w'ill be longer than the other, but when the eyelid is A B C Fig. 232.—Operation for Ectropion of the Lower Eyelid. The operation shown in A is suitable for use when the ectropion is due to an injury. The cicatrix is dissected out so as to leave a wedge-shaped gap which, when sutured, restores the lid to its proper position. Wharton Jones's operation is shown in the two remaining figures. In B the v-shaped incision has been made, and the cicatrix partly dissected up. When the lid is brought into position the incision becomes y-shaped, as shown in C. pulled up, and the wound sutured so as to make it into a Y-shaped incision, the defect is satisfactorily overcome. A better method, however, is to turn in a flap of skin, after dividing the cicatrix and raising the eyelid, and, when the cicatrix is limited, this flap can generally be formed from the skin over the malar bone. In the first place, the eyelid is loosened, and with this object an incision is made parallel to and a little below its free margin, and deepened until the orbital fat is exposed. If the cicatrix does not come close up to the margin of the eyelid, the incision should be made below the edge of the orbicularis muscle, which is pushed up along with the eyelid. The lower eyelid is then turned up with the handle of the knife, the incisions being extended on each side in order to remove all tension ; this leaves an elliptical gap to be covered in (see Fig. 233, A). The next step is to insert interrupted silkworm-gut stitches between the lower ciliary margin and the eyebrow, so as to retain the lid in position. An incision, somewhat longer than the raw surface, is then carried downwards from its outer end.