CHRONIC INFLAMMATION log restriction of mf)vement may occur—in fact, under these circumstances, it is hardly likely that there will be complete restoration of function in the joint. When only one joint is affected this is not necessarily a matter of great importance, but, should a number of joints be attacked, it is a serious undertaking to dissect away the synovial membrane in each. At the same time it must be remembered that the condition cripples the patient, and that a painless though somewhat stiff joint is preferable to one so painful that the patient cannot use it. The operation consists in opening the joint freely with full antiseptic precautions, and clipping away the affected synovial membrane as com- pletely as possible. This gives rise to considerable oozing into the joint, which, however, will stop partly from mere exposure to the air and partly by irrigating the joint with hot normal saline solution. A large drainage tube is inserted, the incision in the capsule is stitched up, and the wound closed, the limb being put on a suitable splint. The drainage tube may be left out at the end of three or four days and the wound allowed to heal. When healing has taken place, passive movement is begun in order to prevent adhesions. Thickening of the substance of the synovial membrane.— These are chiefly cases of prolonged synovitis after an injury, in which a local thickening persists at some part of the synovial membrane—in the knee, for example, about the fatty pad beneath the ligamentum patelk^. It is rare to find generalised thickening of the synovial membrane which is not of a tuberculous or syphilitic origin. Treatment.—The best treatment is prolonged massage accompanied by the employment of douches, and, if necessary, a visit to one of the thermal stations, where the hot-air treatment and the proper douches can be obtained. The cases are very troublesome, and the condition may be so persistent that it mav be advisable to cut down upon the thickened area and remove portions or the whole of it.