AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE 558 When the tumour is large, the skin incision should be as free as possible because branches of the facial nerve are very apt to be adherent to the capsule of the growth, especially at the deeper part, and it is essential therefore to see exactly what is being done during removal of the tumour. When the growth is situated low down, a curved incision over the lower part of the parotid gland running forwards to the jaw will generally give good access. The skin and subcutaneous tissue are dissected up, but care must be taken to avoid injuring the branches of the facial nerve as the incision is deepened. The parotid tissue over the growth is torn through where it is thinnest; indeed, in many cases the tumour is found uncovered by gland tissue. The capsule of the tumour is thus exposed and its separation from the parotid is effected with a blunt dissector until the growth can be pulled or pushed out of its bed and its deeper connections separated. It is at the deeper part that the branches of the facial nerve are most likely to be met with. The hemorrhage is usually unimportant unless a vein is torn in separating the deeper parts. In that case an attempt should be made to seize and tie the bleeding point, but if this fails, it may be better to plug the wound for twenty-four hours and stitch it up afterwards rather than to enlarge the opening in the gland tissue. MALIGNANT TUMOURS. Malignant disease of the parotid may arise primarily in the gland or develop in a ' parotid tumour " and ultimately involve the gland. It may also occur secondarily from the development of cancerous glands in the substance of the parotid or from the spread of malignant disease by direct continuity from carcinoma of the ear or the skin. TREATMENT.—If an operation is to be performed at all, it must be complete removal of the parotid gland, and although this is not worth while in the majority of cases, it may be done when the disease is fairly limited and after any primary focus elsewhere has been completely eraclicated. The operation must, of course, involve facial paralysis ; any attempt to preserve the nerve \^'ill almost certainly end in recurrence of the disease. Excision of the Parotid Gland.—As a preliminary step, a loop of silk should be passed round the external carotid artery at its origin (see Vol. II. p. 204). This can be pulled on gently during the operation if necessary, so as to control the bleeding temporarity ; the thread can be removed at the end of the operation. The shoulders should be raised and the head turned to the opposite side and allowed to fall back. When the skin is not involved, a curved incision is made commencing above at the junction of the zygoma with the malar bone, extending along the zygoma to the front of the ear, curving downwards behind and parallel to the ascending ramus of the jaw, and finally turning forwards