4i8 AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD of the fluid by compression of the head with bandages. In other cases the cranial cavity has been repeatedly tapped, but very rarely with any beneficial result. Permanent drainage has been resorted to, but as a rule, even although care be taken to restrict the amount of flviid drained away, pyrexia and convulsions and, subsequently, death occur in a few days as a consequence of the loss of cerebro-spinal fluid. Injections of Morton's fluid have been tried without success. Following the experiments of Dr. Leonard Hill as to the normal regulation of the cerebro-spinal fluid by absorption and exudation by the lymphatics and veins in the cerebral membranes, we have (at the sugges- tion of Dr. G. A. Sutherland)^ attempted to restore this normal regulation by establishing an opening between the lateral ventricles and the sub- dural space on the view that, if such an opening could be established, the normal regulation of the cerebro-spinal fluid would be carried out by the portions of the meninges not yet affected by meningitis, and that there would thus be permanent relief of the pressure instead of the temporary relief which follows external drainage. The operation we adopt is as follows : A flap is turned down and a small opening is made in the skull, usually at the anterior superior angle of the parietal bone close to the fontanelle. This piece of bone can be readily removed with a gouge: indeed, when the fontanelle is exceptionally large we make the opening at its lower angle without removing any bone. The dura mater is exposed, a small incision is made into it about the centre of the flap, and one limb of a rectangular tube of decalcified bone filled with catgut is introduced through the cerebral cortex into the dilated lateral ventricle. The tube is made by dividing a decalcified bone tube (about the calibre of a No. lo English catheter) obliquely to its long axis with a sharp knife, after which a hank of catgut is threaded through the two portions, and the latter are then fastened together by stitches at the angles so that a rectangular tube is formed consisting of a longer and a shorter limb. The longer limb should be about three- quarters of an inch in length, the other half an inch (see Fig. 178). A pair of sinus forceps is thrust through the cerebral cortex into the distended ventricle about half an inch from the opening in the dura and about two ounces of the fluid allowed to escape. This permits the brain to fall away from the dura to a slight extent, and gives room for the introduction of the tube. The longer limb of the tube is then grasped in a second pair of sinus forceps and thrust through the cerebral cortex at the point where the puncture was made, the first pair of sinus forceps being opened to allow of its passage. The tube is pushed in until its angle is at the opening in the cortex ; its shorter arm then lies in the sub-dural space. In this way one part of the tube projects into the lateral ventricle, while the other lies in the sub-dural 1 On the treatment of hydrocephalus by intra-cranial drainage. By G. A. Sutherland and W. Watson Cheyne, Brit. Med. Joitrn., Oct. 13, 1898.