HYDROCEPHALUS 419 space, and the fluid readily passes from the ventricle to the sub-dural space (see Fig. 179). Mr. Ballance has introduced bent platinum tubes for the same purpose ; these act very well, and have a little ring at the angle by which the tube is stitched to the dura mater to prevent it from slipping about. The hole in the dura is closed and the scalp flap is sewn up tightly with a continuous suture so that there is no leakage of cei'ebro-spinal fluid. As a rule, there is a rapid rise of temperature after the operation, even up to 104° or 105" F., but this gradually falls to normal in the course of a week or ten days, and in a very short time dimimrtion in the size of the skull becomes evident. This diminution goes on steadily to a most Fig. 178.—DzcALCifiED Bone Tubes arran&ld for Drainage of the Lateral Ventricles. The method of preparation of these tubes is shown. A is the bone tube divided obUquely. In B the hank of catgut has been threaded through the two segments of the tube, which are then rotated as shown in the figure and a stout catgut suture is passed through the tube at each angle. When tightened, these sutures make the rcctangled tube shown in C. striking degree, the skull bones falling in and overlapping one another ; at the base, where the bones cannot fall in to the same extent, a sharp line of rigid bone is left. The result, in the course of a few weeks, is the entire disappearance of the distension of the head and the production of a most curiously deformed small skull. If the drainage should show signs of ceasing too soon, a similar operation may be done on the other side. We have found a marked difference between the results in the congenital and the acquired cases. In the former, in so far as the relief of the brain pressure and the restoration of the normal regulation of the cerebro- spinal fluid and the consequent diminution in the size of the skull are concerned, they have been encouraging; but in acquired cases, in which the brain is thick, it is a matter of considerable difflculty to keep up a channel A E E 2