3ii ^TUBERCULOUS DISEASE by a retractor. The transverse processes of three or four vertebrae are cut through with bone-scissors or forceps as close to their origins as possible (see Fig. 132); the ligaments uniting the apices of these trans- verse processes to their corresponding ribs are then severed. Any remaining fibrous connections between the ribs and the transverse processes are divided and the latter structures removed. After the removal of the transverse processes, the posterior extremities of the corresponding ribs come into view. They should be divided as near as possible to the bodies of the vertebrae, and an inch and a half to two inches should be removed. The severed portions are lifted out of the wound, and the abscess wall is exposed. The pleura may be seen in the outer part of the wound, and care must be taken not to damage it (see Fig. 133). After gauze packing has been placed over the margins of the wound, an incision is made into the abscess, its walls are gently scraped and the cavity is washed out. Iodoform and glycerine is then injected, the deeper parts of the incision are brought together by catgut sutures, and the superficial parts of the wound closed without drainage. The operation is not a dilficult or severe procedure ; haemorrhage is easily controlled, and if the normal relations of the important structures in the mediastinum be remembered, there is no great risk of damaging them. If the pus re-accumulates, the operation may be repeated through the same incision. When paraplegia is present as well, it may be possible to relieve tliis by removing a portion of the bodies of the vertebrje after the pus has been evacuated. The granulation tissue outside the dura should be exposed, and may be removed by gentle scraping with a sharp spoon. When the paraplegia is due to the presence of pus outside the spinal cord, the evacuation of the pus from the mediastinum mav lead to the relief of the pressure on the cord. In psoas abscess, the best incision is just internal to the anterior superior spine ; if necessary a second incision can be made farther back Fig. 131.—The Incision for Costo-transversectomv.