AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS i6o possibly be employed at a later period to restore the mobility of the joint. GONOCOCCAL ARTHRITIS.—The hip is not infrequently affected in gonorrhoea. It is important to remember the habihty to anchylosis, though recovery of movement may be complete in some cases. Treatment.—This has been discussed on p. loo, and must be directed to the cure of the gonorrhoea, as well as of the joint affection. The patient should be kept in bed ; no splint need be employed unless there is commencing deformity, or the pain is great. If any muscular spasm is present, weight extension may be applied. The use of gono- coccal vaccine is of value; a small dose should be employed to begin with, and the amount should be increased if necessary. Large doses—250 millions or more—are not infrequently necessary before a good result is obtained. Passive movements must be made from time to time during the course of the affection to prevent anchylosis. It is most difficult to determine the best time for commencing passive movement in these cases ; if it is begun too soon, the inflammation recurs; if postponed too long, anchylosis will result. The best plan is to move the joint very gently after all signs of acute inflammation have subsided, and, if this gives rise to no swelling or pain, a little more should be done on the following day, and so on, until the full range of movement is obtained. ARTHRITIS AFTER TYPHOID FEVER—The hip is the joint most often attacked during recovery from typhoid fever. The affection is sub-acute, and the joint is distended with turbid fluid which may be purulent. Suppuration does not necessarily occur, but the ligaments become softened and spontaneous dislocation is not infrequent; indeed the first thing which attracts attention to the joint is not uncommonly the occurrence of dislocation. The infection of the joint may be due to the typhoid bacillus, or it may be caused by infection with other organisms sucli as staphylococci or streptococci. Treatment.—On account of the great tendency to dislocation, it is necessary to fix the limb in a suitable apparatus, such as a Liston's long splint or a plaster of Paris casing. The patient must be placed upon a water bed, otherwise bed-sores will almost certainly result from the rigid confinement to one position. As a rule, no further local treatment is necessary, and the inflammation rapidly subsides as the patient convalesces. The splint should be kept on for three or four weeks, after which passive movement and massage are employed to overcome the stiffness. "When the inflammatory symptoms are more acute, and there are signs of suppuration, the joint should be opened and washed out, and a drainage tube introduced. This is best done through an incision similar to that employed for the anterior excision of the hip, namely, just in