DISEASES OF THE ANKLE-JOINT AND TAI^SIJS 233 DIFFUSE TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF THE TARSUS. Removal of individual bones alone will not meet the requirements of these cases. In the first instance, expectant treatment consisting of rest, tuberculin injections, the injection of iodoform (see p. 118), or Bier's treatment may be tried for a short time, but it must be remembered that this form of disease is very grave and is likely to be followed by internal complications ; expectant treatment must therefore not be persisted in too long. The choice of operative procedures lies between partial tarsectomy, com})lete tarsectomy, or amputation, and the decision will be influenced by the virulence of the disease, the general condition of the patient, and the presence or absence of tuberculosis elsewhere. B Fig. 94.—Incisions for Partial TARSrxioMV in Tuberculous Disease of the Tarsus. A is the incision on the inner, B that on the outer side. By varying the length of the incisions, as inucli or as little of the tarsus as may be desired can be removed. Partial Tarsectomy.—When the disease is limited to the bones and joints in front of the transverse tarsal articulation, the best procedure is to remove the affected bones in one mass by a partial tarsectomy. This is done by lateral incisions which preserve the tendons, vessels, and nerves. Two long incisions are made, one on each side of the foot just above the sole, extending on the inner side from the front of the sustentaculum tali to the centre of the first metatarsal, and on the outer side from just below and in front of tlie external malleolus to the centre of the fifth metatarsal bone (see Fig. 94). These incisions should be carried down to the bones at once. The tibialis anticus and the peroneus longus tendons may be divided, as they must inevitably be separated from their points of attachment during the operation. All the tissues down to the bone are now raised from the front of the foot in a manner similar to that described for arthrectomy of the ankle (see p. 222), so that the fingers can be made to meet between