513 PLASTIC SURGERY wound which can be brought together by stitches should be undermined and sutured, so as to diminish the area requiring grafting. The wound is not touched for four or five days, when the stitches may be taken out. The phig of gauze should be changed once or twice a day. The pins may be left in situ for three or four weeks. At the end of about four weeks, the pedicle of the flap should be divided at the root of the nose and the parts there pared and sutured : the rest of the pedicle is then turned upwards and replaced in the wound on the forehead. Subsequently some small plastic operations may be required to improve the shape of the nose thus formed or to cut away redundant tissue. If the columella has not been fashioned with the forehead flap, it can be formed afterwards from the upper lip. A narrow strip of the middle line of the upper lip is isolated by vertical incisions beginning just below the aperture of the nares on each side and carried downwards through the entire thickness of the lip to the free margins. This small portion is turned upwards, the frenum being divided, and its free end is refreshed and stitched to the tip of the nose. The new columella will have its cutaneous surface looking backwards while the mucous surface is external. Nasal plugs are introduced on each side in order to keep the parts in position, and the divided upper lip is sutured in the middle line after short lateral cuts have been made on each side beneath the nose, so as to allow the upper part of the lip to slide in below the new columella (see Fig. 238). The Tagliacotian method.—This plan, although successful in some cases, is unsatisfactory on the whole, and entails great inconvenience and the use of special apparatus. In it the arm is fixed to the forehead so that the elbow comes opposite the nose, and a large flap is then fashioned from the skin over the biceps and made to cover the defect in the nose. The arm must be kept in this position for about four weeks before the pedicle of the flap can be divided. The position, however, is so irksome that few patients will submit to it, wliile the new nose is even more apt to shrink than the one formed by a flap from the forehead ; the only advantage of the method is the avoidance of extra scarring about the face or forehead. Fig. 239 will illustrate sufficiently the position of the arm and the mode of attachment of the flap. HI LL