AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS i86 usually cartilaginous in young subjects, and the epiphyseal portion may be divided in two with the knife. These portions retain their mus- cular connections above and are still connected with the periosteum of the femur below. They are pulled aside, and access is at once gained to the neck of the femur. In adults, or in those in whom ossification of the trochanter has taken place, this structure may be sawn off and turned up with the muscles attached to it. The neck of the femur is now sawn through with an Adams's osteotomy saw (see Fig. 70), outside the limits of the disease—usually on a level with the trochanter—the saw being directed obliquely downwards and forwards. The head and neck of the bone are then seized with lion forceps and gradually extracted. In these cases the removal of the head and neck of the bone in one piece is very difficult if the hgamentum teres is, intact, but, when the latter structure is destroyed, there is no trouble. The man- oeuvre is much aided by incising the cap- sular ligament freely, when the admission of air into the joint facilitates the removal of the head. Should it be difficult to take the latter away in one piece, there is no objec- tion to chiselling it out of the acetabulum. The subsequent steps are similar to those recommended for the anterior operation. In this method there is much better access to the posterior part of the capsule, so that a second incision is unnecessary, but in children the damage to the epi- physeal line of the trochanter may inter- fere with the growth of the limb. Hence this method should seldom be employed. 3. By a posterioy incision.—In bad cases, especially in adults, or when there is dislocation of the head of the bone on to the dorsum ilii, a curved incision passing behind the trochanter is very useful and provides excellent drainage. The patient is rolled over on to the sound side, the thigh is semiflexed and rotated a little inwards, and an incision is made, commencing about an inch and a half above the centre of the top of the trochanter and passing downwards and forwards, until it reaches the junction of the base of the trochanter and the shaft of the bone (see Fig. 73). As this is deepened, the glutei muscles are separated in the line of their fibres and the posterior surface of the neck of the bone is easily exposed by dividing the muscles attached to the great trochanter. The saw is now applied to the bone just above the trochanter, and the head and neck of the femur are removed. By this operation the whole of the interior of the joint is very freely exposed and can be accurately examined. " The thorough removal of Fig. 72.—Excision of the Hip bv AN External Incision. The limb should be somewhat flexed and rotated inwards.