215 DISEASES OF THE KNEE-JOINT escape detection, even after the joint has been freely opened. In all these cases, therefore, it is well to delay the operation, if possible, until the surgeon has been able to satisfy himself as to the presence of a loose body. Should he succeed in feeling it, it will usually be met with on one side of the supra-patellar pouch, and an attempt may be made to retain it there by winding gauze firmly round the joint below it and putting the limb on a splint while preparations are being made for operation. The loose body is extracted by making an incision directly over it, arresting all the haemorrhage from the superficial structures before the capsule is divided, and then opening the latter freely and removing the body as already described (see p. 150). When the body has been merely fixed by an assistant's fingers previous to operation, it is well to thrust a stout needle into it before the skin incision is made, otherwise it is extremely liable to slip away when the capsule is opened, as the assistant's fingers must necessarily be removed then. Should the body escape into the recesses of the joint notwithstanding these precautions, or should it be deemed advisable to open the articula- tion without previously fixing the cartilage, and should the introduction of the finger through the opening fail to detect it, it may often be brought into reach by freely flushing the joint with sterilised normal saline solu- tion, or by flexing and extending the joint sharply several times. After the loose body has been removed, all bleeding is arrested, the capsule is sutured with fine catgut and the external wound sewn up. In former days this operation was a very dangerous one, and all sorts of expedients were resorted to in order to avoid opening the joint directly. Nowadays, with perfect asepsis there is no risk at all. PAPILLARY SYNOVITIS. This form of internal derangement of the joint has already been fully described (see p. 107). DETACHMENT OF THE LIGAMENTA ALARIA. This condition is not at all uncommon. One or both of the ligamenta alaria may be torn away from their attachments to the intercondyloid notch and hang into the joint, where they may be caught between the ends of the bones, and give rise to all the symptoms of a loose semilunar cartilage. The possibility of this should always be borne in mind when the patient has symptoms of internal derangement ; under these circum- stances it is, of course, justifiable to open the joint for examination. TREATMENT.—The best method is to make a vertical incision along the inner side of the patella downwards as far as the head of the tibia, and then to curve it backwards just below the joint. This flap is