126 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS week. At the same time the hmb must be placed on a spHnt, and the general treatment of tuberculosis (see Vol. I. p. 231) attended to. Should it be found that the disease continues to progress, it wiU be necessary to resort to arthrectomy if the patient be a child, or to excision if an adult. 4. Cases in which an osseous deposit has burst into the joint.— Here sudden infection of the synovial membrane takes place, the symptoms being great tenderness, pain on movement, starting of the hmb at night, and the other symptoms formerly described under the term ' ulceration of cartilage.' On investigating the history, it wiU usually be found that, for some time previous to the sudden onset of pain, the patient has hmped and complained of a feeUng of weight, uneasiness, or pain in the hmb. The treatment depends to a considerable extent on the general condition of the patient, his age, and the particular joint affected. Expectant treatment usually gives unsatisfactory results, and it is only in joints which are not readily accessible—such as the hip—or when the patient is not in a condition to stand a long operation, that the surgeon will be tempted to employ it. It is in some of these cases that the actual cautery (see Vol. I. p. 20) applied over deep-seated joints—such as the hip or the shoulder—is of most value. A patient, after suffering agonies from starting pains at night in spite of fixation of the joint by splints or extension apparatus, will often lose the pain immediately after the application of the cautery. It is, however, not infrequently found that, should the wound be allowed to heal too soon, the pain recurs quickly. When improvement does not follow in spite of local treatment, it is advisable to have recourse to operative measures at once ; the choice will lie between arthrectomy, excision, and amputation. The meaning, value, and relative uses of these have already been discussed (see p. 121). Another indication for operative interference is when the disease affects a joint such as the elbow, ankle or shoulder in which the movable joint procured by operation is preferable to the stiff one resulting from non- operative methods. 5. General synovial disease without destruction of the cartilages or inflammation of the bone and without abscesses.—These cases are the ones best suited for expectant treatment, and there is no need to consider the question of operation until it is evident that no progress is taking place or that the local disease is extending. An ex- ception, however, may be made in the case of bread-winners, to whom it is of the greatest importance to get back to work within a reasonable time; in them it may be wiser to resort to operative measures earher, so as to restore them to health more rapidly. When the patient is well- to-do and can afford the time, however, palliative measures (see p. 115) should be employed in the first instances. When expectant treatment is employed, years must elapse before