TUBERCULOUS DISEASE 307 below by an inverted U-shaped piece of steel, which runs as far down on the buttocks as possible without reaching the chair or bench when the patient sits down. . . . The uprights are jointed above by another U-shaped piece, the upper ends of which should pass over to the anterior aspect of the elevation of the shoulders, or rather to the root of the neck. ' The uprights should be far enough apart to support the transverse processes of the vertebrEe and not the spinous processes. They should be bent according to a card-board tracing of the back, taken as described, and then adjusted to the back. The neck and bottom pieces should be cut out in cardboard to pattern. The whole should then be riveted together and tried on the patient, who should be lying on his face in the recumbent position. Any alteration necessary in the curves of the steel in order to have the appliance fit closely to the back along its whole length can be made with wrenches. The brace can then be wound with strips of Canton flannel, faced with hard rubber and covered with chamois, or be covered smoothly with leather. An accurate fit is essential ; the covering is merely a matter of detail. ' Pad-plates covered with felt or hard rubber are needed. In some instances, at the points of greatest pressure (the fulcrum of the lever, etc.), the bars of the brace, if well padded, answer every purpose. Buckles are needed at the ends of the neck-piece, at a level with the axilla, opposite the middle of the abdomen, and at the lower end of the brace. . . . ' It is, of course, essential that the trunk be properly secured to the brace. This can be done by means of an apron which covers the front of the trunk, the abdo- men, and the chest, reaching from the clavicles nearly to the symphysis pubis. The apron is provided with webbing (non-elastic) straps, which are fastend into buckles attached to the brace. Padded straps passing from the top of the brace, around the arms, under the axillae, and attached to buckles in the middle of the brace, help to secure it ; but the scapulae, being movable, cannot be relied upon alone to fix the trunk, and the apron must be furnished with straps at the top, which pass over the shoulders to buckles in the top of the brace. ' In adults, it is often convenient to have the apron split down the front and provided with webbing straps and buckles. It can then be adjusted by the patient himself without touching the straps at the back, which secure the apron to the brace. Fig. 128.- APPLIED. and Love/f.) -Taylor's Brace (A fter Bradford X 2