TUBERCULOUS DISEASE 293 the body or down the Umbs, difficulty in bending, difficulty in going downstairs, the occurrence of curvature followed by abscess, nervous symptoms from pressure on the spine, leading to pain, abnormal sensations in the limbs, and ultimately paraplegia. When the case is untreated, abscesses form and burst, and the patient may die from exhaustion due to prolonged suppuration, from phthisis, or from tuberculous meningitis. Rigidity of the spine is one of the most important early symptoms, and is due to the tonic contraction of the muscles surrounding the affected vertebrae. It is a most important diagnostic point, especially in dis- tinguishing the disease from hysterical affections. The antero-posterior curvature has already been described ; in some cases there is a lateral bend in addition to the antero-posterior curve. This is not a true scoliosis, but a lateral bending due to absorption of the bodies of the vertebra; on one side more than on the other. Abscess.—Chronic abscess is a frequent accompaniment of tuber- culous disease of the spine and occurs most commonly in tuberculous periostitis ; it is thus more common in adults than in children, and when the curvature is slight or apparently absent than when it is marked. These abscesses form in front of or at the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae, and occasionally in the spinal canal itself; they point in various situations according to the region affected. In the upper cervical region they usually form in front of the vertebrae and give rise to retro-pharyngeal abscess. In other cases they may extend into the upper part of the anterior triangle, or may pass back- wards and point in the sub-occipital region. Lower down in the neck, they usually appear in the lower part of the posterior triangle, or they may project forward beside the oesophagus or trachea ; thence they may pass down into the thorax or the axilla. In the dorsal region the abscesses form inside the thoracic cavity in front of or at the sides of the vertebra, and they generally make their way backwards between the transverse processes and project in the back, forming dorsal abscesses. In other cases they extend laterally beneath the pleura and pass out between the ribs at the side, or even on the front of the chest, giving at first sight the impression that the case is one of abscess in connection with disease of the rib ; indeed the rib may be actually diseased at the point where the abscess becomes superficial owing to infection from the pus. Abscesses from disease in the dorsal region ma}^ also pass downwards through the pillars of the diaphragm and, entering the sheath of the psoas muscle, form typical psoas abscesses. Some- times, though very rarely, they extend into the posterior mediastinum and burst into the pleura or the lung. In the lumbar region the pus generally passes downwards in the sheath or substance of the psoas muscle, forming a psoas abscess, or it may extend backwards and form a lumbar abscess. When the last