220 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS crippled, and when at the same time there is no marked ataxia, ampu- tation either at or just above the ankle-joint may be quite justifiable and wiU enable the patient to get about better. SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS. Syphilitic disease of the tarsal bones is not at all uncommon, and the various forms of joint syphilis already referred to (see Chap. XIV.) may be met with in the ankle-joint. Thickenings of the tarsal bones are not uncommon in hereditary syphilis ; these are due to periostitis and may lead to considerable interference with the movements of the joints. The treatment offers no points of difference from that already described (see p. 131). ANCHYLOSIS OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. This condition, which is the result of disease in the joint or an injury, is a very crippling deformity, and causes great disability in walking. TREATMENT.—The best results are obtained by excision of the astragalus (see p. 222). If it is necessary to remove any part of the adjacent bones, the raw surfaces should be covered by a flap of soft tissues, taken from the fasciae of the leg or foot, so as to prevent union taking place between the bones (see 153). TUBERCULOUS DISEASE. Tuberculous disease of the ankle, the tarsus, and the metatarsus is relatively more common during adolescence than at any other period of life. The parts most frequently affected are those upon which most strain is thrown in the transmission of the weight of the body, namely, the ankle-joint itself, the astragalus (more particularly its head), the OS calcis, and the base of the first metatarsal bone. As in other joints, the disease may commence primarily either in the synovial membrane or in the bone ; in the ankle it is more often primary in the synovial membrane, whilst in the tarsus it is more common in the bone. Of the tarsal bones, the os calcis is the one most frequently affected ; next in order come the first metatarsal, then the astragalus, and finally the scaphoid and internal cuneiform. It is important to note that in tuberculous disease of the tarsus nearly all the bones are the seat of rarefying osteitis and are consequently much softer than usual. TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. In cases of primary synovial disease, the principal swelling is in front of the ankle-joint on either side of the tendons ; there is also some swelling on either side of the tendo Achillis. As the disease advances, the whole joint becomes swollen and spindle-shaped.