6 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS In the majority of these cases, however, it is safest to amputate the limb or excise the joint at an early period. When the patient is old or when the septic symptoms are violent, amputation wiU be the better practice ; but in mild cases in young subjects removal of the articular ends of the dislocated bones may be justifiable, although it is a dangerous proceeding on account of the risk of infecting the cut surfaces of the bones. If excision is performed, the ends of the bones should be swabbed over with undiluted carbolic acid at the end of the operation so as to seal them temporarily against infection, and \'ery free drainage must be provided. TREATMENT OF UNREDUCED DISLOCATIONS. Attempts to reduce a dislocation that has remained unreduced for any length of time are likely to fail for various reasons. Under such circumstances the displaced ends of the bones contract adhesions to surrounding structures, and these become so firm that attempts at reduction may faU, even though considerable force be used. Further, the bone is apt to become adherent to vessels or nerves, and when this has happened, even mild attempts at reduction may tear these structures, and give rise to disastrous consequences. Again, the capsule of the joint in an unreduced dislocation becomes shrunken and altered in shape, and so adherent to the structures around that, even if the articular end of the bone is brought into position, it cannot be pushed into the joint cavity. Lastly, changes in the articular ends of the bones- take place with such rapidity, that very soon the bony surfaces no longer fit each other, and therefore, even though the dislocation be reduced, displacement is prone to recur. It is well before deciding on the treatment to obtain a stereoscopic radiogram of the joint. This will show the exact position of the dislocated bones, the changes in the contour of the joint surfaces, and the extent to which the formation of a new joint has taken place. The treatment must therefore vary with the time that has elapsed since the dislocation occurred, and the changes which have taken place. Speaking broadly, we may say that it is seldom that a dislocation can be reduced by simple manipulation when more than three or four weeks have elapsed since the injury, and it is hardly safe to attempt reduction after a period of six weeks. We shall refer to this point again when dealing with the unreduced dislocations of individual joints. When too long a time has elapsed to make an attempt at reduction advisable, or when such an attempt has failed, there are three courses open to the surgeon—viz. to leave matters alone, to attempt reduction by an open operation, or to excise the joint. In the first place matters may be left alone. As time goes on the displaced ends of the bones tend to form a fresh joint in the new position,