72 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS raised and turned backwards, so as to expose the front and inner part of the joint. The capsule is then incised horizontally about a quarter of an inch above the edge of the tibia, combined, if neces- sary, with a vertical incision at the anterior end. The joint cavity is then freely opened and the cartilage inspected. In all cases it is well to remove the cartilage as completely as possible ; attempts to stitch it to the lateral ligament or to close any rents in it, are practically failures. In order to gain good access the knee should be flexed so as to increase the aperture in the capsule; the anterior end of the cartilage should be seized and pulled forwards forcibly while its attachments to the tibia are divided with a few touches of the knife. A tenotomy knife is then introduced as near as possible to the posterior attachment, which is divided and the cartilage removed. In some cases it is very difficult to get quite to the back of the joint, but when the cartilage is firmly attached there, no trouble seems to result from leaving a small portion behind. All bleeding points are now tied, any blood-clots washed out of the joint by sterihsed saline solution and the incision in the synovial membrane closed with catgut stitches. It is well to leave a little interval between the stitches, so that any fluid that forms in the joint may escape into the cellular tissue, and thus be more readily absorbed. The fibrous capsule is next sewn up and the wound closed, antiseptic dressings applied, and the limb placed upon a pillow. No splint is necessary and the patient may move the joint in bed from the first. In about a week the stitches may be taken out and active and passive movements should be begun, and gradually increased in range. Massage should also be carried out, especially over the muscles of the thigh, and about ten days after the operation, if there be no marked effusion into the joint, the patient may begin to walk. For the first week or two it is well to support the joint by an elastic bandage applied over a mass of wool in order to prevent synovial effusion.