AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 246 for it ; these can be taken down frequently so as to allow inspection of the joint and the employment of the other procedures such as Bier's treatment, or injections of iodoform and glycerine, which have already been discussed (see p. 118). The result of expectant treatment is generally a stiff elbow, except in some cases of pure synovial disease, which may recover fairly rapidly with a good movable joint. In children, expectant treatment may be continued for a considerable time; but in adults we are of opinion that in most cases it is mere waste of time to employ it for a prolonged period, as on the whole a better result can be obtained by excision. The elbow is the joint of all others in which operative treatment yields a satisfactory result. We therefore strongly recommend that operative treatment should be adopted before abscesses or sinuses occur—as soon, indeed, as it is evident that the disease is not coming to a standstill under expectant treatment. Operative Treatment.—In children the operation should be arthrec- tomy; in adults, excision. In children arthrectomy is a very satisfac- tory operation and often leaves a considerable amount of movement. When the operation is performed early in the case, the restriction of movement afterwards is not, as a rule, very great and the result is excellent, but anchylosis may occur in the cases in which the disease has been advanced. This can, if desired, be remedied by excision when adult life is reached. In adults excision is the better operation. Arthrectomy does not give such good results as far as the mobility and usefulness of the joint are concerned, nor is it so easy to remove the disease by its means ; the mobility after arthrectomy is not nearly so great as after excision. The question of early excision in elbow-joint disease depends upon the condition of the patient, his willingness to undergo an operation, and his occupation. It must be remembered that a stiff elbow without any removal of bone will no doubt be stronger than the movable elbow obtained after excision, and in some occupations it is more important for the patient to have a strong arm which is stiff than a movable one which is weak ; hence, before deciding upon operating, it is important to consult the patient himself as to the relative value of movement and strength in his work. In the majority of cases, however, both as a time-saving method and as giving greater utiHty, excision is preferable to prolonged expectant treatment. Arthrectomy of the Elbow-joint.—This operation is most easily per- formed through two long lateral incisions, one on each side of the joint (see Fig. 99). On the inner side, the incision should reach from just below the point at which the ulnar nerve pierces the internal intermuscular septum to about two or three inches below the level of the joint. On the outer side, the incision may extend slightly higher up the arm, but must not reach so low down on the forearm, otherwise there is a risk of