417 HYDROCEPHALUS on non-tuberculous posterior basal meningitis. Recovery from the attack of meningitis is followed by the formation of adhesions which block the passage of the cerebro-spinal fluid at the foramen of Majendie, or above or below it, and this is followed by distension of the lateral ventricles. It has been shown by various investigators, more especially by Dr. Leonard Hill, that the amount of cerebro-spinal fluid is regulated by exudation and absorption by the veins and lymphatics of the mem- branes of the brain, particularly towards the base, and if anything interferes with this normal regulation of the cerebro-spinal fluid, the result on the brain is very serious. The occurrence of a meningitis interferes with this regulation, and then cerebro-spinal fluid accumulates in the ventricles, giving rise to the condition known as hydrocephalus. SYMPTOMS.—The result of the retention of the fluid in the ventricles is that the cerebral tissue is pressed against the cranium; when the skull is rigid this leads to atrophy of the brain and symp- toms of cerebral pressure. When, however, the affection commences in infancy, the skull expands readily, and thus no marked symptoms of cerebral pressure arise, although the cerebral cortex becomes much thinned. The amount of fluid which may collect in the ventricles and in the posterior sub-arachnoid space in infants is sometimes very large, and the cortex of the brain may be reduced to an extremely thin membrane, the fissures and sulci being completely lost and the various ganglia being flattened out. In the congenital cases and in those commencing during the first year of life, the head becomes enormously enlarged, and many of the congenital cases show also other developmental troubles, such as club-foot or hare-lip. The development of the child is interfered with in many ways ; the digestion becomes imperfect, there is chronic constipation and emaciation, strabismus and nystagmus are common, the eyeballs are displaced downwards, the pupils are much dilated, the special senses are usually imperfect, and the child very frequently dies during the first or second year of life. As the disease advances there is often rigidity and retraction of the head, with convulsions. In the acquired cases developed after the first 3'ear of life, the symptoms are more severe because the skull cannot expand with the same rapidity. There are usually severe headaches, cramps, or paralyses, crying out at night, emaciation, and, after a time, possibly some separation of the sutures and gradual expansion of the skull. Recovery is comparatively rare, and, when it does take place without operation, the brain power is generally greatly enfeebled. TREATMENT.—Various methods of treatment have been em- ployed, but, until recently, without marked success. Apart from the medical treatment, which consists mainly in the use of anti-syphilitic remedies and attention to the nutrition of the child, attempts have been made to prevent the expansion of the skull and to promote absorption III. E E