AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS ii8 be put on outside the wool instead of the elastic one, so as to maintain constant pressure. The dressing should not be renewed oftener than once a week ; in some cases it can be left a good deal longer. When it is removed the parts should be washed with ether soap and shaved afresh. Should the Scott's dressing irritate the skin, its place may be taken by simple pressure applied through the medium of a mass of cotton-wool fixed on by a silicate bandage. If the wool be sufficiently thick, the bandage may be pulled as tight as the surgeon can apply it without fear of causing undue pressure. Massage, which is of much value in the later stages of simple chronic inflammation, is not permissible in active tuberculous disease. Injection of Iodoform emulsion.—Injections of iodoform and gly- cerine and the artificial production of venous congestion—the method known as Bier's—have been strongly advocated, especially in Germany; the former method certainly often gives remarkably good results when there is fluid in the joint. The iodoform emulsion contains lo per cent, of iodoform, and it is well to prepare it so as to insure freedom from micro-organisms, for iodoform is not an active antiseptic, and, although glycerine destroys septic organisms, it is hardly safe to trust entirely to its germicidal powers. We therefore recommend that the iodoform should first stand submerged in a i in 20 watery solution of carbolic acid for at least forty-eight hours, the bottle being frequently shaken so as to insure free access of the acid to the powder. Instead of using pure glycerine for the emulsion, we add to it a four-thousandth part of corrosive sublimate. The iodoform is strained from the carbolic acid, and is mixed with the glycerine in the proper proportion—10 per cent. The emulsion should be put in a sterilised bottle and allowed to stand for another twenty-four hours before use. The emulsion is injected into the joint cavity, the amount employed varying with the age of the patient. In children the total amount used may be as much as two drachms, whilst in adults double that quantity may be employed should the size of the joint permit; indeed, a still larger quantity may be used in joints that have been distended with fluid, provided that the synovial membrane has not been scraped. No serious symptoms are likely to result from this, although complications have followed the injection of large quantities of iodoform and glycerine into chronic abscesses. Poisonous symptoms may be due to an excessive dose of iodoform, or to the glycerine. The symptoms produced by iodoform are delirium, pyrexia, rapid pulse, spasmodic movements and the presence of iodine compounds and sometimes albumen in the urine. Glycerine alone, however, may produce rise of temperature, blood pigment in the urine, increasing rapidity of pulse, vomiting, restlessness, and stupor ending in coma. In a superncial joint, such as the knee, a fair-sized needle should be