AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE 288 be made to repair the defect in the bone ; in newly-born children such a procedure can hardly be carried out, because it is essential that the operation should be performed as quickly as possible. At a later date, however, when the child can bear a longer operation, this procedure may be of considerable value. When portions of the laminae are present on each side, attempts have been made to close in the opening by dividing their attachment to the articular processes and pedicles of the vertebra with a chisel, and in this way allow the fragments to be pulled inwards over the sutured sac wall. In another method, which has been carried out in the sacral region, the soft tissues are peeled off the side of the sacrum for some little distance, and then a thin layer of the bone, with the periosteum attached to it, is chiselled up on each side and left attached at the edge of the defect. This plate of bone is then bent over the gap. Success has been obtained in several instances by bone-grafting, the bones employed being either the scapula or the skull bones of rabbits. The scapula, divested of its muscles, forms a very satisfactory plate between the skin and the sac, and has succeeded in more than one instance. The exact method of grafting bones from animals, including the prepara- tion of the anim.al, have already been described in Vol. II. p. 436. Portions of the tibia from the patient may also be chipped off and placed over the defect, and this is likely to succeed better than the bones of the lower animals. The after-treatment mainly consists in taking care to avoid septic infection. The dressings should be fixed on with collodion or strapping instead of with bandages, and each dressing should be small in quantity and renewed at least twice daily, especially when the affection is in the lower sacral region and when consequently there is great risk of soiling the wound. 2. Cases in which the sac is partly membranous and contains nerve elements.—In these cases the operation differs from the above in several important particulars. The centre of the sac is usually covered by membrane, and any attempt to make a flap is out of the question. Hence the thin portion of the sac should be enclosed by an elliptical incision and removed ; the further steps for the isolation of the sac are the same as in the preceding group of cases. After the sac has been separated, it is opened and the nerve structures detached from its wall; for this purpose a small incision is made, and the cavity is examined and the distribution of the nerves noted. It is important not to make this incision in the middle line, tor two reasons: in the first place, the cord if present will escape damage, and, in the second place, the hue of suture of the sac will not correspond to that of the skin. The sac is laid freely open and the nerves dissected out and returned into the spinal canal ; this may be quite easy or, on the other hand, it may be a matter of great difficulty. When the nerves simply pass across the cavity of the