PLASTIC SURGERY 505 and at the lower end curved backwards and upwards to a point level with, but posterior to, the commencement of the incision ; in this way a flap is cut witlr its base just outside the outer canthus and somewhat broader and longer than the gap it is required to fill. This flap is then rotated on its base and stitched into position with horse-hair sutures (see Fig. 233, B). As much fat as possible must be raised along with the skin, so as to ensure the vitality of the flap, but the incisions should not be carried so deep as to injure the branches of the facial nerve. The sides of the gap left in the cheek may be brought together after under- mining the skin, and a vertical scar will result (see Fig. 233, C). The ingenuity of the surgeon must be exercised in these cases, and he must take his flaps from parts where there is no cicatricial tissue. When the whole cheek is cicatricial, it may not be possible to obtain sound flaps, and in that case the raw surface left after raising the eyelid A B C Fig. 233.—Flap Operation for Ectropion of the Lower Eyelid. The operation is described in the text. The lower lid shonld be fastened in position by silkworm-gut stitches passing upwards to the eyebrow, but these are not shown in the figure. should be covered by skin-grafts. Subsequent contraction may occur and partly reproduce the deformity, and in this case the operation should be repeated. After-treatment.—Wet boric lint is applied until the bleeding has stopped, and then the line of incision is covered with boric acid powder and allowed to scab, or a little salicylic wool is fixed on with collodion. The stitches holding up the lower eyelid should be retained for a few days, and to prevent the accumulation of discharge beneath the eyelids, it is well to syringe gently with warm boric lotion several times a day. In some cases the after-treatment is complicated by conjunctivitis and ulceration of the cornea as the result of the exposure of the eye, and the purulent discharge escaping on to the line of the incision may inter- fere with the union of the flap. It is therefore important to improve this condition as much as possible before performing the plastic operation, but as it depends on the exposure of the cornea, it does not usually get well until an operation has been performed successfully.