AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE 272 Here the urinary troubles are more severe and, in spite of the greatest care, it is hardly possible to stave off the occurrence of pyelo-nephritis for any considerable length of time. The patient is, moreover, exposed to the risk of dangerous hypostatic congestion of the lungs from the want of proper aeration of the bases, owing to the paralysis of the abdominal and lower intercostal muscles ; this risk not uncommonly increases as time goes on, because secondary myelitis generally occurs above the injury to the cord, and thus leads to extension of the trouble upwards and a further interference with the nerve supply. When the fracUire is in the cervical region death almost invariably results within a few days, or weeks at the utmost, chiefly owing to the respiratorj^ embarrassment due to the paralysis of most of the respiratory muscles, and the resulting imperfect aeration of the lungs. TREATMENT.—In connection with the treatment, we shall consider separately true dislocations, fractures of the bodies, fractures of the neural arches, and the chief complications. 1. Of Dislocation.—An attempt may be made to reduce the cervical dislocations by placing the patient under an anaesthetic, and making extension by grasping the occiput with one hand and the chin \\'ith the other, counter-extension being made by fixing the shoulders and trunk. The extension is made in an upward and backward direction, and in some cases the dislocation is reduced with a sudden jerk or snap ; reduction may be followed by sudden cessation of breathing which necessitates recourse to artificial respiration for a few minutes. r \ If the dislocation cannot be reduced in this way, operation is advisable. The surgeon exposes the seat of dislocation by laminectomy (see Vol. II. p. 131), and divides any structures which interfere with reduction, such as the superior articular processes of the vertebra below the seat of dislocation. If it is necessary to remove the articular pro- cesses, the transverse and spinous processes above and below the seat of dislocation must be subsequently drilled and united by silver wire (see Fig. 105). Great care must be observed throughout the operation to prevent undue movement of the parts, otherwise the injury to the cord may be increased. The wound is closed, and when it has been dressed, a poroplastic splint which takes purchase from the shoulders, and embraces the neck, the chin and the occiput, should be apphed ; if necessary, this may be strengthened by suitable pieces of metal. The head is thus fixed, and the risk of fresh displacement avoided. 2. Of Fracture of the Bodies of the Vertebrae.—In taking charge of these cases it is very important to remember the grave damage which may have already been done to the cord, and the serious risk of increasing this by incautious movements of the spine. In examining these cases it is not permissible to turn the patient over or to raise him, so as to seek for deformity or other symptoms of fracture,