AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD 352 Eustachian tube into the pharynx and appear in the nose. The amount of blood thus lost may be considerable. It must, however, never be forgotten that an uncomplicated injury to the tympanic membrane may produce bleeding which may simulate that due to a fracture of the base ; • in that case, however, the haemorrhage is usually slight and transitory. Cerebro-spinal fluid also escapes freely from the ear, sometimes in large quantities ; when this occurs there can be no doubt about the diagnosis. The amount of cerebro-spinal fluid lost is larger in fractures of the middle fossa than in the other situations ; when the quantity of fluid is very small, it may be simply blood serum, or possibly fluid from the lab5Tinth. The escape of brain matter from the ear may also occur in very bad fractures, and in a few instances emphysema of the skin over the mastoid process has been noticed. In fractures through the posterior fossa, extensive ecchymosis may occur about the mastoid process and in the neck. When the blood has escaped among the deeper cervical muscles, the ecchymosis may not be apparent for several days. Treatment.—There are three main points in the treatment of cases of fracture of the base of the skull : To arrest the haemorrhage ; to diminish the inflammatory action ; and to avoid sepsis. Arrest of hcemorrhage and diminution of inflammatory action.—The patient should be placed in bed with the head sUghtly raised and fixed between sand-bags, and a Leiter's coil (see Fig. 136) should be applied to the head, the temperature of the water being about 40° F. The head need not be shaved ; if the hair is thick it should be cut short. The room shoiild be darkened and the patient kept absolutely quiet and free from noise. It is well to administer five grains of calomel immediately ; if this does not produce a satisfactory action, one or two drops of croton oil mixed with powdered sugar may be given. The patient is generally in a state of shock when first seen, and should be covered with warm blankets, outside which hot bottles should be applied to his feet and sides. Alcohol should be avoided, as it tends to increase the haemorrhage ; subcutaneous injections of strychnine (gr. ■^^) or pituitary extract are of value if the patient is collapsed. The treatment at this stage is that suitable for concussion of the brain (see Chap. XXXII.), Retention of urine is common, and a soft red rubber catheter, sterilised by boiling, should be passed as soon as there are any signs of distension of the bladder. These measures are frequently insufficient to check the haemorrhage, .and as a result symptoms of compression of the brain set in. Unfortu- nately it is impossible to do much for the relief of the cerebral compres- sion in these cases. In fractures through the anterior fossa, however, operations for the removal of the clot and the arrest of the bleeding have been successfully performed. This is especially likely to be the case when the bleeding is from the middle meningeal artery, and in cases of