CLEFT PALATE 545 years, and when first employed for defects of the soft palate they are hable to cause retching. A patient must be trained to tlieir use, and hence they should not be discarded if unsuccessful at first. More- over, they require to be constantly changed if the patient is young, and they also become inefficient from the perishable nature of the material of which they are made. The fitting of these obturators falls into the province of the dentist. ACQUIRED PERFORATIONS OF THE PALATE. These may be due to injury or disease. Perforation from disease is generally due to acquired or congenital syphilis ; it occurs during the tertiary period, and is the result of the formation of gummata and is often accompanied by extensive necrosis of the palate or the vomer; the destruction of the palate is rapid and extensive. TREATMENT.—The treatment of these cases is at first paUiative. When it is due to injury, the frequent use of a mouth-wash of sanitas, chlorate of potash, peroxide of hydrogen (lo vols.), or boric acid is indi- cated until granulation has occurred. If possible, stitches should then be introduced and the aperture closed. In some cases, portions of tissue may be lost and an obturator must be employed, or some plastic operation performed at a later period. In syphilitic affections, the important point is whether operative interference should ever be practised ; in the early stage while the gumma is forming, vigorous antisyphilitic treatment (see Vol. I. Chap. XL) should be employed at once, because the disease spreads very rapidly. When necrosis has occurred, any sequestrum present should be removed, and no question of operative interference should be entertained until the patient has definitely got rid of the disease and been free from it for a considerable time. An obturator may be obtained in the meantime, or the aperture in the hard palate may be packed with gauze when the patient is eating or talking. Success is not likely to attend operation except when the patient is comparatively young, the aperture small and the parts not extensively cicatricial. Davies-CoUey's flap method (see p. 534) will be more likely to succeed here than simple paring of the edges and bringing them together, although the latter operation may be successful when the opening is small. III. N N