3i8 AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE mater and the cord, and compressing the latter ; under such circum- stances it is readily removed by pulling on it and separating its connec- tions with the membranes by means of a blunt instrument. If the tumour winds round an}' of the nerves, care must be taken to disentangle them before removing the tumour. After the operation all bleeding is arrested, the dura mater if opened is sewn up, and the laminae are replaced ; it is well to fix the latter in place by wiring them. One or two sutures will bring the spinal muscles together in the middle line and the skin wound is closed without a drainage tube. In syringo-myelia, which is usually a form of glioma of the spinal cord leading to dilatation of the central canal, the spinal canal has been opened in several cases, but without any benefit resulting. HYSTERICAL SPINE. The spine is one of the most common seats of so-called hysterical disease, and the affection is sometimes mistaken for Pott's disease or for lateral curvature. The distinguishing features are, however, the absence of rigidity, the marked hyperaesthesia which is usually very evident even on light pressure on the skin, and the completeh'' normal appearance and movements of the spine. When the pain complained of is in the lower dorsal vertebrae, the spinous processes ma}' be very prominent, and the skin over them red and tender, so that a casual examination may lead to the belief that the prominent spinous processes indicate angular curva- ture ; this is especially the case in a thin patient who has been wearing tight corsets. When the patient bends the back, however, the free mobility of the bones at once shows that there is no disease of the bones. TREATMENT.—The treatment of hysterical spine is the same as that already outlined in connection with hysterical joints (see p. 138). It must be directed towards the improvement of the general health, and the removal of any existing visceral disease, more especially ovarian or uterine disorders. No sort of apparatus should be applied ; probably the best thing is to subject the patient to a course of rigid Weir Mitchell treatment, and not to pay any special attention to the spine. SACRO-COCCYGEAL TUMOURS. Certain swellings occur about the lower part of the sacrrmi, which are evidently the remains of an imperfect foetus, and if they cause trouble an attempt may be made to remove them. The true sacro-coccygeal tumours occur in front of the coccyx in connexion the post-anal duct. They are usually cystic, and may be small and lie in the concavity of the sacrum, or they may be large and project behind the anus, pushing the coccyx backwards.