AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD 402 be packed between the dura mater and the bone at the end of the operation. Treatment ot Lepto-meningitis.—The treatment of suppurative lepto- meningitis is extremely unsatisfactory and it is very seldom indeed that it is successful. Attempts have been made to wash out the pus by making two or three trephine holes and opening the dura mater at the base of the skull, but it is very doubtful whether anything more than mere temporary relief can be obtained by them. By opening the skull low down in the occipital region and lifting the cerebellum up from the medulla oblongata so as to allow the escape of fluid from the fourth ventricle, considerable, but usually only temporary, relief is obtained. The fluid that escapes is not neces- sarily purulent, and its escape should be facilitated by the insertion of drainage tubes beneath the cerebellum (see Fig. 172). Repeated lumbar punctures are of some value in these cases. For the method of performing lumbar puncture see p. 442. Treatment of an Abscess of the Brain.—It is often very difficult to locahse these abscesses. When the roof of the attic is carious, the probabihty is that the ab- scess is in the temporo- sphenoidal lobe, and this is the first region that should be explored ; failing the dis- covery of an abscess there, the cerebellum should be examined. On the other hand, when suppuration occurs along the sigmoid groove, the abscess is probably in the cerebellum and that should be examined first. It sometimes happens that a communication is found passing directly from an extra-dural abscess into a superficial abscess of the brain in the vicinity. Any such opening should be enlarged, and the abscess treated in the manner to be described immediately ; removal of more bone may not be necessary. When the symptoms persist after exposure of the lateral sinus {vide supra), and lead the surgeon to suspect the presence of an abscess in the brain, the simplest plan is to enlarge the opening in the bone over the sinus sufficiently to enable both the temporo-sphenoidal lobe and the cerebellum to be explored. It will be necessary to carry an incision Fig. 170.—Exposure of the upper Surface of the Petrous Bone for Sue-dural Abscess. The complete post-aural mastoid operation has been performed. The cranial cavity has been opened above the temporal ridge and the dura mater lifted up by a spatula to expose the sub-dural abscess between it and the upper surface of the petrous bone.