AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE 3i6 ACTINOMYCOSIS. This is very rare as a primary disease of the spine, and it is accom- panied by abscesses. The cases should be treated by scraping out the abscesses and administering iodide of potassium in large doses (see Vol. II. p. 459). When actinomycosis attacks the spine, it usually involves other structures in the neighbourhood, such as the pleura and ribs. The chances of recovery are small. NEW GROWTHS. Tumours in connection with the spine may be divided into those which grow in connection with the bones, and those which occur in the interior of the spinal canal and form the so-called tumours of the spinal cord. TUMOURS OF THE VERTEBRA. Tumours of the spine may be either primary or secondary, the primary tumours being usually exostoses and sarcomata. The most common malignant tumour of the spine is a secondary carcinoma following a primary growth elsewhere, more especially in the breast ; this generally affects the bodies of the vertebrae, and leads to extensive destruction. The earliest and most marked symptom of cancer of the vertebrae is intense pain, which is not merely limited to the spine, but after a time radiates along the course of nerves which pass out of the inter-vertebral foramina in the immediate neighbourhood. A second characteristic symptom is paralysis, which sets in very quickly, and has not that gradual onset which is seen in cases of tuberculous disease, or of tumours of the spinal cord ; complete paralysis may develop within a few hours. Angular curvature also occurs in some cases of cancer of the spine, but it is not such a marked feature as the pain and the paralysis. TREATMENT.—With the exception of the exostoses, the treatment of these tumours must be purely palliative, and can only be directed to the relief of the symptoms. In cases of secondary cancer, where curva- ture is becoming evident, the pain may be alleviated to some extent by the apphcation of a spinal support—such as a Taylor's brace—with the view of preventing the bones being pressed together. As, however, most of the pain is due to the involvement of nerves, the chief agent in the treatment must be morphine. TUMOURS OF THE SPINAL CORD. Tumours in the spinal canal may be extra-meningeal, intra-meningeal, or in the cord itself. Their most common seat is within the dura mater. The most frequent tumour is a myxoma, while Upomata, sarcomata,