8i SPRAINS in the more severe forms it may be required for two or three weeks longer), it is more convenient to continue the elastic bandage; indeed, in bad cases, it is as well to wear the elastic bandage or strapping for some six weeks or more. If treated in this way the majority of sprains, without extensive rupture of ligaments, recover without any trouble. Should a feeling of weakness still persist in the joint (and this is not uncommon), benefit will be derived from douching it for about three minutes at a time with a jet of water as cold as can be borne, with as much force as the patient can stand. This should be followed by massage, and the application of a firm bandage. 3. When a ligament is rupiiired, there is considerable risk of im- perfect union and a permanently weak joint, unless great care be taken in the early treatment. This is especially the case in the ankle-joint, where a portion of one of the lateral ligaments is not infrequently ruptured. In these cases the limb should be fixed on a splint, so designed as to obviate all possibility of movement in directions that would separate the torn ends. Massage should also be employed, special care being taken not to pull on or strain the ruptured ligament. It is desirable that the person who performs the massage should be acquainted with the anatomical sti^ucture of the joint, and it should be done by the medical man himself in the first instance. Something like six weeks' complete rest is required for the union of a ruptured ligament, and during that time care must be taken to prevent the formation of adhesions by practising passive movements almost from the commence- ment. If care is taken not to stretch the torn ligaments the passive movement will permit union, and at the same time leave the joint free from adhesions; but if the joint is simply placed on a splint and left for six weeks without massage or passive movement, severe and possibly intractable adhesions are very likely to form. When portions of bone have been detached along with the ligament, the limb should be put on a splint and massage and careful movements em- ployed after the first two or three weeks. Should the detached piece of bone be large or should there be any difficulty in getting it into position, a better result will be obtained by cutting down upon it and fastening it in place (see Vol. II. p. 304) or by removing it altogether. III. G