PLASTIC SURGERY 503 downwards, the size of the wedge varying with the age of the patient ; in an adult tlie base should measure about an inch and a quarter in length, in a child, correspondingly less. The wedge should be taken well in front of the cicatrix. An incision is made along the lower border of the jaw, somewhat longer than the intended base of the wedge, the soft parts are separated from the bone in front and behind, and then the jaw is divided with a key-hole or a Gigli's wire saw. If teeth are present, it is usually impossible to open the mouth so as to extract them, and if they get in the way of the saw, they must be cut across, and the fangs picked out afterwards. A thin copper spatula should be passed between the inner side of the jaw and the soft tissues to protect them from injury, and the bone sliould be cut as cleanly as possible. Any sharp edges left must be removed with bone-pliers or a chisel. The soft tissues on the deep surface of the jaw are then brought over the raw surface of the bone and sutured to the deep fascia in front so as to prevent bony union between the ends ; where this soft tissue is not sufficient or satisfactory a flap may be taken from the deeper part of the masseter or from the subcutaneous tissues. The wound is closed by horse-hair sutures, a small aperture being left for a drainage tube, which may be removed after the first few da^^s. After-treatment.—The mouth should be washed out several times a day with a non-irritating antiseptic solution such as sanitas, and passive and active movements of the jaw may be commenced about the third day, and must be persisted in for a long time. We must confess that our experience of this procedure after cancrum oris is not altogether satisfactor}'. In children the loose portion of the jaw is apt to become drawn in, with the result that the line of the teeth is displaced inwards so that the patient cannot bite ; strong fibrous union also often occurs between the two halves and limits their movement. Nevertheless the operation affords the only chance of improving this very distressing deformity. PLASTIC OPERATIONS UPON THE EYELIDS. ECTROPION.—The chief deformity of the eyelids which comes under the notice of the general surgeon is ectropion—especially of the lower lid—due to cicatricial contraction. This may result from burns, lupus, syphilis, or necrosis of the orbital margin of the malar bone, with adhesion of the skin to it. The forms of ectropion due to thickening of the conjunctiva and paralysis of the lower lid are generally dealt with by the ophthalmic surgeon. In these cases no plastic operation should be undertaken until the contraction of the scar has ceased entirely, otherwise the deformity will be reproduced ; and further, the patient should be in a good state of health before operation is attempted. In syphilitic cicatrices, for example,