TUBERCULOSIS 127 the disease can be considered cured ; indeed, two or three years should be looked on as quite a short limit. Should the treatment be abandoned too soon and the patient allowed to move the limb freely or to bear weight upon it, the disease is almost certain to recur. It is far better to err on the side of waiting too long than to run the risk of a recurrence. The chief difficulty in carrying out prolonged treatment of this kind is, that the patient is afraid that the Hmb will become stiff, and while this is no doubt frequently the result, it must be impressed upon him that the cure of the disease is the primary object; in many cases in which the disease has undergone arrest before destructive changes are advanced, however, considerable movement and in some cases even a perfect joint results. This is far more likely to occur after rest than after attempts to keep up movement during the treatment so long as the disease is active. If movement is allowed, inflammation will continue, and fresh cicatricial tissue will form, so that there will be more adhesions inside the joint and greater contraction of the fibrous structures outside. If, on the other hand, the joint is kept at rest, the inflammation will subside sooner, and there will be less formation of cicatricial tissue, and therefore less difficulty in stretching this by the natural movements. A most important point to bear in mind after recovery is, that it is never permissible to attempt to restore movement forcibly. Although the ' cure ' of tuberculous joints is commonly spoken of, recovery is seldom complete. In the great majority of cases tuberculous material is still present, and, having undergone encapsulation, it gives no trouble so long as no fresh injury occurs. These deposits may remain quiescent indefinitely unless forcible movements are employed, when there is great risk of fighting up the disease once more. Patients are frequently met with who, having suffered in early fife from tuberculous joint disease, and tfiinking that it is time for movement to be improved, go to a bone-setter and have the joint forcibly moved, with the result that the disease recurs in a worse form than before. When it is obvious that no progress is being made in spite of careful treatment on these lines, or when the occurrence of pain or rigidity points to extension of the disease to the cartilages and the bone, operative interference is indicated. The particular operation chosen will depend upon the circumstances of the individual case (see p. 122). 6. Cases complicated by unopened abscesses which may or may not communicate with the joint.—Here operative measures must be undertaken at once, because the chance of absorption of the abscess is extremely remote, whilst the risk of its spreading in undesirable directions is very great. The important point for consideration is wfietfier it will not save time, and also be of advantage to tfie patient, to combine arthrectomy or excision with the treatment of the abscess. The decision will depend to a considerable extent on the joint affected, on the local condition (particularly with regard to the number, size, and situation of tfie abscesses).