40 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 3. Fracture of the articular surface of the Humerus.—This requires to be treated upon the lines laid down for that particular form of fracture (see Vol. II. p. 334) after the dislocation has been reduced. It will sometimes be advisable to cut down upon the fracture. 4. Injuries to Vessels and Nerves.—Severe damage to these structures is a rare complication. There is a certain amount of pressure exerted both upon the vessels and nerves by the projecting lower end of the humerus when the bones of the forearm are displaced backwards, but, owing to the intervention of the soft stractures, the pressure is not severe, and the interference with the circulation and innervation is usually temporary, and disappears when the dislocation is reduced. Should the brachial artery or the median nerve be torn across, however, the treatment must be similar to that for the corresponding injuries connected with dislocations of the shoulder (see p. 28). The indications for operative interference already laid down there apply equally here. (c) Of Compound Dislocation.—A compound dislocation of the elbow backwards is not common. Sometimes, however, the olecranon or the lower end of the humerus is forced through the skin. The treatment should be on the hues laid down for compound dislocation in general (see p. 5). Drainage-tubes should always be inserted on either side, one rather behind the external condyle, to drain the back and outer side of the joint, and one in front of the internal condyle to drain the anterior part. The elbow is put up at right angles. Should the wound remain aseptic, the drainage-tubes are taken out in three days, and at the end of a week passive movement is carried out daily. The splint should be discontinued as soon as the wound has healed, and massage and movements practised for about four weeks longer. It is not always wise to treat a case by simple disinfection and drainage. When there is considerable soiling of the joint, and particularly when the lower end of the humerus is comminuted, immediate excision wiU probably give the best result. An attempt to save the joint by disinfection and drainage would require a long time for healing, while extensive adhesions would certainly result, and lead to a stiff joint; whereas the functions of the articulation are well preserved after excision, and the period of convalescence is comparatively short. The excision must be preceded by the most careful disinfection {vide supra), and the amount of bone removed will depend largely upon the extent of the fracture ; generally, the mistake made is in taking away too little. When the lower end of the humerus is broken up, the surgeon is often tempted to remove only the comminuted portion. There is a great likelihood of stiffness subsequently when the ulna is left untouched, and in most cases it is well to excise the usual amount of the bones of the forearm (see Chap. XXIII.). When the dislocation is accompanied by widespread damage to important structures in the neighbourhood as well as to the bones, it may