AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE 532 liquids for the first week. The child is fed b}^ a spoon and later on by a feeder furnished with an india-rubber tube, passed far back at the side of the mouth. At first milk, either alone or mixed with soda-water or lime-water, should be given ; at the end of the first week bread and milk, custard and arrowroot may be added, but solid food should be forbidden for at least three weeks. It is very important to keep the child from crying, laughing, or talking, if possible. It is an excellent plan to mould smaU splints of cardboard or poroplastic material to the flexor surfaces of the arms and forearms, and thus prevent flexion of the elbow-joints while leaving free play to the shoulders and wrists ; thus the child cannot put his fingers or his toys into his mouth, but can still amuse himself with his playthings. If the child is disobedient and tries to remove the splints, the arms must be tied to the trunk, but this is usually unnecessary. No one should be allowed to inspect the condition of the wound for at least ten days ; inspection can do ho good and might do harm. About the tenth day some of the stitches should be removed ; if the child is fractious, it is well to administer an anaesthetic for the purpose. Should union be good throughout, all the stitches may be removed ; should it be doubtful at any part, the stitches in the neighbourhood of the doubtful area should be left for a few days longer. Complications.—There are two important complications common to all operations for cleft palate, namely, bleeding at the time of the opera- tion or afterwards, and failure of union. 1. Bleeding.—As a rule the haemorrhage, though free at first, is easily controlled by sponge pressure. Obstinate bleeding generally results from incomplete division of the posterior palatine artery. Severe oozing is common when the airway is obstructed. Anaemic children are very apt to bleed and the operation should be delayed, if possible, until the anjemia has improved ; haemophilics should not be operated on at all. Secondary hemorrhage may occur, but is uncommon; as a rule, it is not severe. Treatment.—During the operation the airway should always be kept free, and this wiU minimise venous oozing. If the bleeding is arterial and'sponge pressure wiU not stop it, the clots should be wiped from the Fig. 259. — Staphvloraphv completed. The sutures are tied and the lateral incisions now gape widely. The dotted lines show how these lateral incisions may be prolonged for the relief of tension if necessary.