DISEASES OF THE WRIST AN!) HAND 259 DISEASES OF THE PHALANGEAL JOINTS. SPRAINS. Sprains of the fingers may be followed by considerable trouble unless great care is taken in their treatment. There is often partial or entire rupture of the lateral ligaments of the articulation, with pain in the joint, localised tenderness over the attachment of one of the ligaments, swelling and interference with movement. This condition may be very obstinate even in healthy patients, while, in those who are predisposed to rheu- matoid arthritis or tuberculous disease, it may be the starting-point of these affections. TRBATMBiN'T.—The treatment of sprains has been fully dis- cussed on p. 79. In very bad sprains of the fingers the affected finger may be immobilised, and pressure employed for a few days. The best plan is to apply Scott's ointment spread on lint and fixed on firmly with rubber strapping ; outside this a palmar splint of block-tin is applied. The splint should have a broad portion fitting the palm and reaching down to the metacarpo-phalangeal joints and as high up as the wrist ; it is cut away opposite the thenar eminence so as to allow movement of the thumb. From the palmar portion a trough extends down for the reception of the affected finger. This splint should be kept on for about a week, after which passive movement and massage should be diligently employed. SYNOVITIS. Acute synovitis may be the result of injury, and as a rule soon passes off. The chief trouble lies in the adhesions which are left behind. Chronic synovitis with effusion, corresponding to the hydrops articuli of the larger joints, is very rare. The treatment of these conditions is similar to that already described for other joints (see p. 93), and presents no features of importance. GOUTY ARTHRITIS. This is one of the commonest diseases of the phalangeal joints, and is associated with the deposit of chalkstones in the neighbourhood of the articulation, accompanied by some difficulty in complete extension. The urates are deposited not only around the joint, but actuahy in the cartilages, leading to alteration in their shape, and accounting for the difficulty in movement. TREATMENT.—The essential point is the general treatment for gout—regulation of the diet, diminution in the amount of nitrogenous food, and the employment of suitable drugs and mineral waters (such as lithia and Contrexeville waters) to increase the excretion of uric acid and