489 PLASTIC SURGERY as a rule, be comparatively slight and may be remedied subsequently, either by division of the cicatrix and a second skin-grafting, or by turning in a flap from the neighbourhood. In large old-standing scars with much contraction, skin-grafting is also of great value ; for example, in ectropion following extensive lupus or burns of the face, the skin may be so widely scarred that it is impossible to obtain sound skin-flaps in the neighbourhood, and under such circumstances considerable impr(jve- ment may be obtained by dividing the cicatrix along the lower border of the eyelid, dissecting up the lid, stitching it to the eyebrow so as to leave a broad raw surface, and covering this with a skin-graft. Wlien all shrinkage has ceased, the operation can be repeated if necessary, so that ultimately the ectropion may be completely cured. Skin-grafting has, however, a limited scope in connection with defects on the face, as it is practically confined to cases in which the loss of tissue is comparatively superficial and not extensive. Turning in Flaps.—In the majority of cases in which plastic surgery is required, there is loss of tissue in depth as well as in superficial area, and often there are cavities to be bridged over ; in these cases the defect can only be remedied by turning in flaps. When the defects ai"e made by the surgeon, it is generally advisable to cover them in at the time of the operation. Some have advocated that the wound should be allowed to heal in certain cases and the plastic operation performed later, but much contraction and deformity may be avoided by repairing the defect immediately. In some cases, however, it may be desirable to allow the wound to cicatrise. For example, after removal of a tumour of the upper jaw in which it has been necessary to remove a considerable amount of skin that was adherent to the tumour, it may not be possible to find flaps to cover in the gap. As healing occurs, the contraction will diminish the gap considerably, and it may then be closed by a plastic operation, or a flesh-coloured metal plate may be used which is held in position by a spectacle frame. These artificial substitutes may give a more sightly result than a plastic operation, and they have the advantage that the area of the operation can be readily watched for signs of recurrence. In cutting flaps the most important principle is to employ curved incisions wlien possible. Straight incisions are often used, hut they liave several disadvantages. In the first place, there is more tension than when curved incisions are employed, as the latter allow the flap to slide into position without imdue traction ; consequently a rectilinear flap either gives way, or, if it keeps its place, deformity may be caused from the tension, while the angles of the incision at the base of the flap pucker up and cause unsightly projections. Moreover, with rectihnear flaps, it is often impossible to get enough covering for most openings. This is well seen in cases in which the lower lip has to be repaired after a growth has been excised from it (see Fig. 221). In this case, a quadrilateral portion