538 AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE Brophy's Operation.—The principle underlying this operation is the approximation of the bony margins of the cleft, the edges of which are also pared, so as to ensure their union. In the earlier operations when the cleft was wide, considerable force (even to the extent of frac- ture) was employed to approximate the bones, and in some cases the attachments of the superior maxilte to the malar bones were divided. But if the operation is performed soon after birth, these severe proceedings should not be necessary. It is obvious that this method of operating can only be employed when the cleft is a complete one, involving the alveolar arch. It cannot be used for clefts limited to the soft and posterior part of the hard palates. Brophy considers that the most suitable age is from ten days up to three weeks. At this period, and indeed up to four or five months of age, the bones are very soft and can there- fore be brought into apposition without much chfficulty. After five months, the bones are harder and there is considerable risk of frac- ture. Hence the operation is not advisable after that age. In favour of this method of operation, it is urged that the position of the pre-maxillary bone is rectified, that the teeth grow in their proper directions, that the jaws develop normally, and that defects of speech do not occur. It seems probable, however, that too roseate a view has been taken of the results of the operation as regards these points, and it is quite certain that in many cases only the anterior part of the cleft in the hard palate and the alveolus have been closed by this procedure. The associated hare-lip is operated on some two months or more after the operation on the hard palate, and the cleft in the soft palate is not closed until the child is about sixteen months old. The details of the operation are as follows :— The infant is anaesthetised, and the mouth held open by a gag. One of Brophy's needles (see Fig. 264) is threaded with a long silk suture, of the same size as the silver wires which are to be used, the gauge of these wires being 18 to 20 (American gauge). The needle is then made to penetrate the alveolus as far back as possible, and is pushed on through the superior maxilla until the eye of the needle is seen in the cleft. During the passage of the needle, great care must be taken to keep its point below the orbit, and it should lie just above the hard palate. The space intervening between the floor of the orbit and the alveolus is very small and damage may easily be done. The developing teeth may also be encountered, and Fig. 264. — Brophy's Needles for Cleft-Palate Operations. They are right- and left-handed needles.