443 LUMBAR PUNCTURE inclination upwards and inwards, and the spinal canal is usually reached at a depth of two and a half inches (in the adult). If necessar}^ a local anfesthetic may be used, but the pain is not great. The first few drops of fluid are often blood-stained, and should be rejected. Occasionally the fluid continues to be mixed with blood throughout, and the question arises whether this is due to the operation or whether there is a hsemorrhage into the brain or meninges. In the latter case, as a rule, the blood-stained cerebro-spinal fluid does not clot after removal from the body. When the blood comes from a vein which is wounded during the operation, and any appreciable amount is present, it usually clots on standing. This accident can generally be avoided by the use of a needle which has only a short bevel. When a long bevel is used, part may be in one of the meningeal veins and part in the spinal cavity. The rapidity with which the fluid escapes is important and should be noticed. Normally it trickles out drop by drop (the rate depending, of course, on the lumen of the needle), but when the intra-cranial pressure is raised, it may run out in a continuous stream or be foixed out in a rapid jet. This occurs in meningitis, in cerebral tumour, and occasionally' in other conditions, and in such cases the symptoms are almost always relieved by the operation ; fluid should be allowed to escape until the rate of flow is about normal. The normal cerebro-spinal fluid is perfectly clear and colourless. It does not coagulate, or only does so after some hours and then in a very feeble manner. It contains a trace of albumen and of sugar, about 07 per cent, of sodium chloride, a trace of other salts, and a minute amount of urea. Cells are absent, or extremely scanty. The main diseases and injuries, in which lumbar puncture may be of diagnostic value, are the following :— Meningitis.—Here we must distinguish between [a] tuberculous meningitis, and (b) that due to other organisms. {a) Tuberculous Meningitis.—The fluid is usually under abnormally high pressure, though late in the disease the foramina in the roof of the fourth ventricle may become occluded and the cerebral fluid unable to escape. It is slightly turbid, the turbidity being due to lymphocytes ; occasionally some polynuclear cells are also present. It coagulates feebly, sometimes not until an hour or two have elapsed. The clot is often so transparent that it is oiily evident when the tube is gently shaken so as to detach the coagulum froni the walls of the vessel ; the contrast between the delicate clot and the clear fluid then becomes obvious. Tubercle bacilli may sometimes be found in the clot, but their detection is not always an easy matter. (i) Meningitis due to the Diplococcus mcningiiidis, or to the ordinary ' septic ' organisms, whether spontaneous or traumatic, is characterised by turbid fluid, the turbidity being due to polynuclear leucocytes ; these