268 AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE highest practical importance in these cases to get the patient up and about as soon as the local condition of the spine will permit. Unduly prolonged rest only serves to accentuate the various vague spinal, muscular, and nerve pains from which the patient suffers, while the mental condition becomes proportionately bad. In the more markedly hysterical cases some form of the Weir Mitchell treatment must be employed (see p. 138), and in some cases treatment by 'suggestion' may be of value. In the less severe ones, an entire change of scene and surroundings, such as a sea-voyage or the like, may be sufficient. HEMORRHAGE INTO THE CORD OR HEMATO-MYELIA. This condition may be considered in connection with spinal con- cussion, because the injuries which lead to the one are very apt to pro- duce the other, while the two are very often combined. The presence of punctiform hcEmorrhages in the substance of the cord has been alluded to, but in the cases under consideration there is more extensive bleeding, which gives rise to a clot in the grey matter of the spinal cord. This condition usually follows acute flexion of the spine, and, according to Tliorburn, is practically confined to the region of the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae. When the lesion is severe, there may at first be complete paraplegia ; this is subsequently recovered from to a certain extent, only some slight weakness being left in the lower extremities. The severe symptoms, however, mainly affect the upper extremities, and permanent loss of power, and wasting in some of the muscles often remains. When the haemorrhage is less, the symptoms are confined to the arms from the first ; this differentiates these cases from those of spinal concussion, in which the symptoms are most marked in the lower part of the legs and in which the arms are comparatively slightly affected. After partial recovery, the paralysis may extend again as the result of the onset of myelitis. Unless the hcemorrhage is severe and followed by myelitis, there is usually a considerable amount of recovery. TREATMENT.—This consists simply of rest in bed, ice to the back, injections of ergotinine citrate (^^,^7 g^.), and the use of purgatives. It can hardly be expected that an operation for the removal of the intra-medullary clot would be of any practical value. DISLOCATION AND FRACTURE-DISLOCATION. The injuries already mentioned (see p. 263) may also produce dislocation of the spine, or more commonly fracture-dislocation. True dislocation of the spine without fracture is very rare and is practically confined to the cervical region. In it the articular processes become displaced from one another, and the inter-vertebral disc and the