AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 120 with the iodoform and glycerine injections just referred to, and some surgeons have reported good results from its use. Its object is to produce congestion of the parts and so lead to the formation of fibrous tissue around the tuberculous area which will encapsule it, and thus prevent its spread. We cannot say that we think that this method is of very wide application. It can only be used advantageously for the joints below the hip and the shoulder. The limb is first bandaged firmly from below upwards to within a few inches of the affected joint. An india-rubber bandage is then applied around the hmb above the joint sufficiently tightly to interrupt the venous circulation and to cause a distinct, duU-red discoloration of the skin ; it is well to put a piece of boric lint beneath the india-rubber bandage. This congestion is maintained as long as possible ; generally it cannot be tolerated at first for more than twenty minutes to half an hour at a time. By slow degrees, however, the time may be extended until finally the bandage may be worn for eight to ten hours out of the twenty-four; when the bandage is removed, elastic pressure should be applied over the joint itself, so as to get rid of the resulting oedema. The site of the pressure must be varied from time to time so as to avoid ulceration of the skin. The method may be continued for several weeks —in fact, as long as good results are produced by it. Operative Measures.—The operative measures which may be called for in cases of tuberculous joint disease are :— 1. Arihreciomy, or removal of the diseased tissues without more of the healthy structures around than is absolutely necessary. 2. Excision, or removal of all the diseased tissues and certain definite portions of the ends of the bones. 3. Amputation, by which the limb is removed well above the limit of the disease. Both expectant and operative measures may be combined in many instances ; when for instance an abscess is present, it may be washed out, injected with iodoform and glycerine, stitched up and the limb put on a splint. Again, sinuses may be thoroughly opened up, cleared out and stuffed with iodoformed gauze, after which the limb is similarly immobilised. Indications for operation.—The following are the chief points in determining whether expectant treatment or operative measures should be employed. It may be stated here that the tendency of modern surgery is towards limitation of operations in the treatment of tuberculous joint disease. Although excisions and arthrectomies are excellent as regards the eradication of the disease, the functional result is not always the best that could be obtained; while, either because the disease is less virulent than formerly or as a result of better hygienic conditions, the results of expectant treatment have much improved. The poorer classes yield the majority of patients needing these operations, but the