AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 46 Dislocation of the head of the radius backwards or outwards is very rare, and the treatment resembles that of the form just described. UNREDUCED DISLOCATION.—The trouble in these cases is that flexion cannot be carried out even up to a right angle, whilst the movements of pronation and supination are interfered with. Treatment.—When the dislocation is of long-standing, it is obviously impossible to obtain satisfactory reduction by mere manipulation, as the alterations in the radio-ulnar joint entirely preclude this. We have, however, obtained satisfactory results by cutting down upon the articula- tion in the manner just described, and removing the head of the bone (see p. 43). The sigmoid cavity is then cleared of fibrous tissue, and the upper end of the bone is pressed back into position. If enough bone be removed to enable full flexion to be carried out, the result is satisfac- tory. It is well to introduce some soft tissues between the upper end of the radius and the humerus and ulna so as to prevent bony union between the radius and the ulna (see p. 153). A flap of fascia may be obtained from the outer side of the upper part of the forearm, the base of the flap being over the ulna. The wound is sewn up without a drainage-tube, and no splint is employed ; a mass of dressing is put on to immobilise the joint, and the arm is carried in a sling. The passive movements of pronation and supination are practised from the day following the operation, and as soon as the wound has healed, the patient is encouraged to move the arm. 'PULLED ABM.'—Before leaving the question of dislocation of the head of the radius, it is necessary to refer to those cases, so frequently met with in children, in which severe pain is felt in the neighbourhood of the superior radio-ulnar articulation accompanied by loss of pronation and supination, as the result of lifting the child up suddenly or swinging him round by the forearms. The child screams on any attempt to rotate the radius and the limb is powerless, and in a position midway between pronation and supination. Several explanations of this condition are put forward, the most probable being that the head of the radius has been partially withdrawn from the orbicular ligament, and that, as a result, folds of the synovial membrane covering the ligament lie over the head of the radius and are nipped between it and the articular surface of the humerus. Treatment.—That this explanation is the most probable one seems proved by the fact that the condition is easily remedied under anesthesia by fixing the elbow-joint, firmly grasping the wrist, and then suddenly pronating and supinating the arm fully, if necessary deflecting the whole of the forearm somewhat outwards. As a rule the head of the bone sUps into position at once, and the movements of the joint become free and painless.