TRIGEMINAL NEURALGIA 473 ovale. Osmic acid has also been used as an injection, but its highly poisonous character has led to its abandonment. If injections of alcohol fail and the disease still remains limited to one of the branches, neurectomy may be performed. I. Injection of Alcohol.—This method was introduced by Schlosser of Munich. The injection is made with a strong needle lo cm. long and I'5 mm. diameter, marked in centimetres for part of its length. The needle is fitted with a blunt st3/iet, which can be protruded from the sharp end. The material injected is alcohol (75 per cent.) or alcohol containing 2 per cent, of /8-eucaine ; about two cubic centimetres are introduced. The operation of injecting the nerves is not particularly dangerous and can sometimes be performed without an antesthetic, a small quantity of eucaine being injected and aUowed to act I:)efore the alcohol is introduced. When the operation has been successfully performed, es]5ecial]y when pure alcohol has been used, there is severe burning pain in the area of distribution of the nerve, which is followed 1 nf 1111 f r Itpfp 11 — J Fig. 209.—Syringe for Injijciio.n ui- Alcohol into Nerves. Above are shown the stylet and the hollow needle. Below, the stylet is in place within the needle. The needle is graduated in centimetres. by a sense of fullness and tension which, in its turn, is succeeded by complete anaesthesia. In some cases there may be diffuse headache. The anaesthesia is not permanent, passing olf in the course of five or six days, but the pain does not return at the same time as the ordinary tactile sensation. There is, however, usually a recrudescence of the pain in from six months to two years, when a fresh injection must be given. Injection of the third division of the nerve at the foramen ovale.—The guide for this operation is a point immediately below the zygoma and 2^ cm. in front of its descending root, which can be felt just in front of the external auditory meatus ; the needle is inserted at this point and, when the skin has been perforated,the stylet is introduced, and the instru- ment pushed on with the blunt stylet protruding, so as to avoid injury to the vessels, especially the middle meningeal artery, which enters the skull through the foramen spinosum close behind the foramen ovale. The needle is passed inwards, and slightly upwards and backwards, until it IS felt to touch the external pterygoid plate ; the periosteum is then