AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE 286 taken the place of all other procedures when the tumours are increasing in size, and it is preferred by most authorities to injections with Morton's fluid. Strict asepsis during the operation is essential for the success of the operation. This is by no means an easy matter to obtain when the tumour is in the lumbo-sacral region, especially when the child is only a few days or weeks old. Failure to obtain asepsis means a fatal result from septic spinal meningitis. In some of these operations also there is considerable shock, especially when it is necessary to dissect out a number of nerves or the cord itself. In fact, when we consider the age of the patient, the situation of the tumour, the habihty to septic infection and the magnitude of the operation, it is a very severe procedure, and in bad cases the mortality is great. Hence operation should not be resorted to unless it is absolutely necessary. Cases suitable for excision.—From this point of view we may divide the cases into the three following groups:— I. Cases in which the sac is covered by normal skin and does not contain nerve elements.—Unless the tumour is large and increasing in size, these cases may, as a rule, be left alone, or at most treated by Morton's injec- tions. When an operation is considered necessary because of the continued increase in size of the tumour and the gradual thinning of the skin, the fol- lowing is the best procedure: The skin is rendered aseptic, and scrupulous precautions are taken against shock both before and during the operation (see Vol. I. p. 117). The extremities should be wrapped up in cotton- wool, the chUd laid on a warm pillow, and the operation performed as rapidily as possible. When the skin over the tumour is thick and there is a plentiful supply of subcutaneous tissue, a curved incision may be made round the upper edge of the tumour and a horseshoe-shaped flap turned down (see Fig. 113). In most cases, however, the skin over the centre of the tumour is so thin that it would slough if it were dissected off the sac and therefore elliptical incisions enclosing and removing a considerable portion of the skin over the prominence of the swelling are better (see Fig. 114). All the tissues down to the sac itself should be taken up in the skin-flap ; when the sac is exposed, it is usually easy to peel off the skin and subcutaneous tissues. Fig. 113.—Incision for Spinal Menin- gocele. This incision would only be used when healthy skin covers the tumour. The convexity of the incision may be to one side if the shape or size of the tumour demands it.