DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW 45 weeks. The patient should not cany heavy weights or attempt any forcible movements for at least another fortnight. Operative measures.—If it is evident that reduction is not satisfactory, it will be necessary to expose the articulation and remove the remains of the orbicular ligament ; otherwise the dislocation will recur and will lead to disability which may require for its cure an operation under less favourable circumstances. The head of the radius is readily exposed by the angular incision recommended by Kocher for excision of the elbow. The joint is flexed to an angle of 150°, and an incision is com- menced one inch above the external condyle and carried down along the external supra- condyloid ridge to the head of the radius, and thence to the subcutaneous border of the ulna three inches below the tip of the olecranon (see Fig. 22). This incision runs between the supinator longusand the triceps above, and between the ex- tensor carpi ulnaris and the anconeus below, and exposes the radio-humeral joint with- out damaging any important structure. The capsule of the joint is now incised at its posterior aspect, and the head of the radius will then be seen. The OrblCularllgament IS defined and 22.—Incision to Expose the Head of the , 1111 -1 r Radius. The deep fascia and the capsule of the joint have the torn ends held aside, after been incised directly over the head of the bone. which it is easy to press the head of the bone into position. The torn ends of the orbicular ligament are then stitched together if possible, but, should the ligament be torn close to its insertion into the ulna, it may be very difficult to repair the injury ; as a rule, however, the difficulty may be overcome by passing two or three catgut sutures through the end of the torn ligament, and then through the periosteum or the insertion of the ligament close to the bone, before the dislocation is reduced. These stitches are left loose and are tied when the head of the radius has been brought into position. The wound is closed without a drainage-tube. The after-treatment is similar to that for dislocation reduced by manipulation.