234 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS the two incisions. The structures on the plantar surface should also be separated from the tarsus, and, in doing this, one must bear in mind the arch formed by the tarsal bones, and should keep close to the bones. In this way all the soft structures are separated from the bony skeleton of the foot throughout the whole extent of the incisions, leaving the entire synovial membrane intact and in connection with the joints. This is quite easy to do on the dorsum of the foot, as the surgeon can see what he is doing, but it is more difficult in the sole. The next step is to apply a long narrow saw, or Gigli's wire saw, transversely across the bases of the metatarsal bones, about an inch behind the level of the base of the first metatarsal. The saw is then applied transversely across the tarsus opposite the neck of the astragalus and divides it and the corresponding portion of the os calcis. Whilst this is being done, the soft parts must be protected and held out of the way by suitable spatulae. After the bones have been divided, a few touches of the knife allow the whole bony mass, together with the synovial membrane and other diseased structures, to be taken away in one piece without infecting the wound. Ajter-treatment.—The wound is stitched up and a drainage tube is inserted if there is much oozing. The limb should be placed upon a back splint with a foot-piece at right angles, and the weight of the toes wiU keep the metatarsal bones in contact with the os calcis and astragalus. In arranging the padding, particular care must be taken to bring the foot into proper position and to keep the bones in contact. As healing takes place, the muscles contract and the tendons, which at first are much too long, gradually become shortened and finally act very well. Results.—As a consequence of this operation the foot is considerably shortened, but the functional result is good, and is much better than that obtained by amputation, as the ankle-joint is preserved. A similar operation may sometimes be performed, even when sinuses are present, if care is taken to deal with them in the manner already recom- mended (see p. 225). When, however, there are numerous sinuses or when abscesses are present, and the patient is an adult, Syme's amputation at the ankle-joint is much the best practice. In some cases a sub-astragaloid amputation may be done and gives an excellent result. When the ankle- joint is also involved in the disease, amputation through the lower third of the leg should be performed.