i66 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS to (see p. 113), and we need here only discuss the local treatment of the various stages. Treatment of the first stage.—Rest is most important, and should be enforced in all cases not only by applying suitable apparatus, but, in the first instance, by the maintenance of the horizontal position in bed. Whatever splint is employed, it is essential that the patient should not get up even on crutches, until all signs of acute mischief— especially pain and tenderness on pressure—have entirely disappeared, and the affection is well on the way to cure. The first point of practical importance in determining the treatment for any given case in the early stage is to decide whether to employ rest and splints alone, or whether extension is also necessary. This will depend upon whether there is, or is not, spasm and rigidity of the muscles. When spasm of the muscles and starting pains in the limb are present, the bone is generally becoming affected; the inflamed osseous surfaces are pressed together as a result of the muscular contraction, and rapid absorption of the bones and shortening of the limb result. In these cases extension must be employed. It should be remembered, however, that the object of the extension is not to separate the ends of the bones— which would be impossible without using more weight than the patient could tolerate—but to overcome the tonic contraction of the muscles around the joint, and so prevent the bones being forcibly pressed together. In applying extension in cases of hip-joint disease, the strapping should take its purchase from the thigh as well as from the leg ; indeed, if much weight be required, it is well not to continue the plaster below the knee at all, so as to avoid pulling unduly upon the ligaments of that joint. In the first stage the extension should be made in the long axis of the body, but if the flexion is not easily overcome, it should be in the long axis of the limb (see Fig. 58). The weight employed wiU depend upon the age of the patient and the strength of the muscles. In a child, three pounds is sufficient to begin with, and this maybe increased or diminished according to circumstances ; should it not relieve the pain and overcome the spasm, additional weight must of course be employed. If the pain is relieved in the first instance and then returns, this may be due either to extension of the disease or to stretching of the diseased ligaments after the spas- modic contraction of the muscles has been overcome. In the former case the weight must be increased, in the latter it must be diminished. Under these circumstances it is well to try the effect of diminishing the weights in the first instance; if this fail they should be gradually increased. The extension should never be left off suddenly, but should be gradually diminished, otherwise the symptoms will be very likely to recur. The trunk must also be kept steady by means of a folded sheet passed over the thorax and abdomen, with heavy sand-bags placed over it on each side of the body. If the patient is unruly and constantly trying to sit up, it will be advisable to apply a Liston's long splint (see Vol. II.