AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 210 not essential, but it keeps the limb in position and prevents any antero- posterior dislocation of the bony surfaces. It must be remembered that the divided surface of the tibia is much broader than that of the femur, and if the anterior margins of the two bones are brought into apposition, the posterior surface of the tibia will project markedly into the popliteal space, and, when the limb is placed upon the splint, serious pressure may be exerted upon the pophteal artery, and gangrene of the limb may result. The posterior margins of the bones shoiild there- fore be accurately adapted, and it is with the view of insuring this that fixation of the bones is advisable. Some trouble may be caused by the extreme softness of the bone, which allows the wires or plates to become loose, and therefore great care must be taken to fix the limb firmly with splints. As a rule, it is weU to introduce a drainage tube at the outer edge of the incision, the rest of which is sewn up by a continuous suture ; the limb is placed upon a Gooch's splint prepared in the way recommended for arthrectomy (see p. 206). After-treatment.—When a drainage tube has been used, the dressing must be changed next day, and about the third day the tube may be removed. Before changing the dressing, it is well to have a fresh splint prepared in a similar manner to the original one. The spHnt is then opened and the front of the knee dressed; while this is being done, an assistant must fix the thigh to prevent starting of the Limb, while another similarly fixes the leg. It is well at the first dressing to keep the limb in contact with the splint by opening and dressing one side at a time whilst the hmb is pressed against the other. The spHnt is then elevated, the inclined plane or pillow upon which it is resting is removed, and one assistant grasps the thigh and another the leg, wliilst the surgeon grasps the limb on either side of the knee ; the splint is then allowed to drop away from the limb, the posterior part of which is thoroughly washed with i in 20 carbolic acid solution, and afterwards with I in 2000 subhmate. The fresh splint, with the dressing already arranged, is put in place beneath the hmb and gradually raised until the surgeon and the assistants can remove their hands and leave the limb lying upon it. The strips of gauze and wool are then wrapped around the knee and the fresh sphnt fixed on b}^ bandages. At the end of three weeks this splint may be left off, and the limb put up in plaster of Paris or some similar immovable apparatus. In three months after the operation, union is usually firm enough for the patient to get about. Massage will then be required to restore the circulation and improve the nutrition of the muscles. The tendency to flexion must be borne in mind, and therefore a moulded leather sphnt or some similar apparatus should be worn during the day for some months or even years. When septic sinuses are present.—The presence of sepsis is a very