COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN 371 RUPTURE OF THE MIDDLE MENINGEAL—This artery is the largest branch of the internal maxillary trunk and enters the skull through the foramen spinosum, running upwards in a groove on the greater wing of the sphenoid. About one centimetre above the foramen it divides into an anterior and a posterior branch, of which the anterior is the larger, and runs in a groove across the greater wing of the sphenoid and thence across the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. It then passes upwards almost parallel to the anterior border of that bone and sends branches forwards and backwards over the frontal and parietal bones. The posterior branch passes backwards over the squamous portion of the temporal bone and turns upwards near the posterior inferior angle of the parietal running just in front of the posterior border of that bone. It reaches as far as the middle line and its branches nm as far back as the lateral sinus. Throughout their whole extent both branches of the artery lie in grooves in the bone, converted into channels by the dura mater, and are much more adherent to the latter than to the bone. The anterior branch is the one usually torn. The main branches of this vessel are in close relationship with various motor areas of the cortex, and thus haemorrhage from them may cause direct pressure upon these areas and give rise to paralysis of various parts, according to the seat of the rupture and the extent of the hcemorrhage. The following are the chief surface markings of the artery: The anterior branch passes beneath a point situated an inch and a half behind the external angular process of the frontal bone and the same distance above the zygoma. The posterior branch crosses the posterior inferior angle of the parietal bone beneath the point of intersection of a line drawn from the glabella 1 backwards to the external occipital protuberance, with another drawn vertically upwards from the posterior margin of the mastoid process (see Fig. 156). Rupture of the middle meningeal artery generahy occurs in connection with a fracture, the line of which traverses the groove in which the artery lies (see Fig. 154) or crosses the foramen spinosum itself. Rupture of the artery, however, may take place without any fracture, the probable explanation being, that the alteration in the shape of the skull produced by the blow is insufficient to fracture the skull, but enough to detach the vessel from its groove in the bone and tear it across. Haemorrhage without fracture occurs most commonly in adults, probably because in children the dura mater is more closely adherent to the bone and, therefore, less easily separated from it when the skull is compressed. The blood from the torn vessel is poured out between the dura mater and the skull, and rapidly detaches the former from the bone. This blood ' The glabella is the smooth space directly above the root ot the nose, midway between the two superciliary ridges. BB 2