AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 112 with the joint and leads to infection of its interior, these slightly marked symptoms suddenly become acute ; the patient is seized with severe pain and there is considerable swelling of the joint, with starting pains at night and marked flexion. It is often not until these acute symptoms have appeared that any history is given of previous trouble in the joint. The later history of these cases is that the joint cavity becomes filled with semi-purulent fluid, the synovial membrane thickens (although not very markedly), while abscesses form around the joint and burst, leading to sinuses connected with carious bone. The general health suffers, for the patient cannot sleep on account of the starting pains in the limb, which come on just as he dozes off; he gradually wastes, and acute tuberculosis may be the final result. When the disease is -primarily synovial, or when an osseous deposit reaches the surface of the bone at the point of reflection of the synovial membrane on to it, the symptoms are less acute, and the local signs consist mainly of thickening of the synovial membrane, which at first is often localised, but which gradually extends over the whole membrane. In the early stage there is only slight interference with the mobility of the joint, and little pain. As the affection advances, movement diminishes, and, when the cartilages become destroyed, the more severe symptoms, such as starting pains at night and abscesses around the joint, begin to appear. A patient with pure synovial joint disease is generally free from pain as long as the limb is kept at rest. In the rare cases of localised thickening of the synovial membrane forming a pedunculated mass projecting into the joint, the symptoms at first are effusion into the joint with some tenderness on pressure over the thickening, which may suggest the presence of a loose body. The nature of the disease is made evident by the gradual extension of the thickening to the rest of the synovial membrane. In all cases of tuberculous joint disease a remarkable and early feature is rapid wasting of the muscles which act upon the joint. This condition is common to many acute joint affections, but is more marked and more rapid in the tuberculous form than in any other, and is probably caused to some extent by a neuritis spreading from the articular nerves, or by some reflex trophic disturbance. GENERAL POINTS IN THE TREATMENT OF TUBERCULOUS JOINT DISEASE. From the point of view of treatment, cases of tuberculous joint disease may be divided into the following groups :— 1. Localised tuberculous deposits in the bone without affection of the joint. 2. Localised pedunculated tuberculous deposits in the synovial membrane.