DISEASES OF THE KNEE-JOINT 209 the patella and the fatty pads below it. The knee is fully flexed, the lateral ligaments are divided, and the synovial membrane over each side of the joint is taken away. If it should be necessary in order to obtain freer access to the joint, the tendon of the quadriceps may now be divided transversely, the two ends being stitched together at the end of the operation. After the crucial ligaments have been divided and the knee fully flexed, the end of the femur is protruded and its articular surface removed. In doing this the limb is held horizontal, and the bone sawn vertically at the upper limit of the articular cartUage on the front of the femur. The line of bone section should be at right angles to the long axis of the limb and not to that of the femur. As the posterior surface of the femur is reached, care must be taken to see that the structures in the popliteal space are kept out of the way and protected by a spatula if necessary. When the end of the femur has been removed, the posterior part of the cap- sule is easily separated and removed, in the manner already described for arthrectomy (see p. 205), and the head of the tibia is then protruded through the wound and its articular surface sawn off. In doing this the knee must be flexed, the foot being placed fiat upon the table so that the leg is vertical; the saw is applied at right angles to the long axis of the tibia, and about half an inch of the upper end is removed. The wound is now examined to see that none of the capsule nor any osseous deposits are left behind. Any portions of articular cartilage whicli have been left are carefuUy clipped away; any project- ing edges of the bones are removed with bone pliers, and any tuberculous deposits present in the cut surfaces of the bones are scooped out, together with a portion of the healthy bone around. The bleeding is arrested and the wound stitched up, but before doing this it is well to fix the femur to the tibia by wires or plates ; this is Fig. 83.—Relation of the Epiphy- seal Cartilage to the Bone Section IN E.xcisiON of the Knf.e. The lower figure is a lateral view, showing the epi- physeal cartilage as a white line and the saw-cut as a dark one. The upper figure is a front view of the same femur, and illustrates the relation of the bone section to the edge of the articular cartilage in front. It will be seen how easy it is to encroach unduly upon the line of growth when sawing the bone. {Holmes's System of Surgery.)