43 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW DISLOCATION OF BOTH BONES FORWARDS. This accident is the result of a severe blow upon the back of the flexed elbow, or of forcible traction—as when the arm is caught in machinery. Both bones are displaced forwards, and the olecranon lies in front of the articular surface of the humerus. So severe an injury is necessary for the production of the dislocation that all the ligaments of the joint are usually ruptured and the dislocation is very likely to be compound. Treatment.—Reduction is effected under an aucesthetic by fixing the upper arm and then flexing the elbow to its utmost limit and at the same time pushing the forearm downwards and backwards. As soon as the olecranon reaches the lower part of the articular surface of the humerus it clears its edge and the bones slip readily into position. The after-treatment is similar to that for dislocation of both bones backwards (see p. 39). DISLOCATION OF EITHER BONE ALONE. The radius is dislocated alone much more frequently than is the ulna. DISLOCATION OF THE ULNA ALONE. This is such a rare injury that doubts have been thrown upon its occurrence, and more exact information—which is only to be obtained by radiography—is required before much can be said about it. The disloca- tion is backwards ; the orbicular ligament is ruptured, but the head of the radius remains in its normal position with regard to the lower end of the humerus. Treatment.—-The treatment will be similar to that for dislocation of both bones backwards (see p. 38). DISLOCATION OF THE RADIUS ALONE. It is not uncommon for the head of the radius to be dislocated forw ards whilst the ulna retains its normal position. The accident usually occurs in children, and generally results either from falls upon the outstretched hand or from the common practice of lifting children by the hands. A severe strain is thus thrown upon the orbicular hgament, which may rupture, or the head of the bone may escape upwards in front of the outer condyle of the humerus. The accident may also be caused by a direct blow upon the upper end of the radius, such as would occur in falls upon the outer side and back of the elbow. The dislocation renders flexion beyond a right angle mechanically impossible on account of the apposition of the head of the radius to the front of the articular surface of the humerus. The forearm is usually in a position midway between pronation and supination. Treatment.—There is often much difficulty in replacing the head of