ULCERS OF THE SCALP 333 have separated and the wound is granulating. Provided that the operation is not delayed until the healing process has ceased owing to the impossibility of further contraction, the grafts take well and a sound scar is left. When skin-grafting is not employed or when the grafts fail to hold, a four per cent, ointment of scarlet red should be tried. This substance appears to have a marked effect in stimulating the growth of epithelium. Several substances are sold under this name, but the one that is known commercially as 'oil soluble,' 'Red B,' or ' Pouceau 3 B,' and chemicallv as toluene-azo-;8-naphthol is the best. Amido-azo-toluol is probably the active group in the molecule, and is frequently employed alone in place of the scarlet red. Both these substances can be made up into ointments with a zinc oxide basis or one containing eight per cent, of friar's balsam. It is rather irritating, and hence it is well to alternate its use with that of a simple ointment such as zinc ointment or Lassar's paste. The skin around the ulcer should be smeared with zinc ointment up to about half an inch from its margin ; a piece of lint spread with an ointment containing eight percent, of the dye is then applied over the wound, and the whole covered with some sterile wool and a bandage. This dressing is left in place for twenty-four hours, and then the scarlet red is cleaned away and a simple ointment applied for twenty-four hours, this process being repeated until the wound has healed. If this plan is inconvenient an ointment containing four per cent, of scarlet red can be applied daily. SYPHILITIC AND TUBERCULOUS ULCERS. These ulcerations are usuaUy secondary to syphilitic or tuberculous disease of the skull and seldom begin in the scalp (see p. 360). When gummata commence in the scalp they usually yield readily to anti- syphilitic remedies (see Vol. I.). Lupus occasionally affects the scalp, but it is very rare as a primary disease, and even when there are lupoid ulcers in neighbouring parts of the face, the disease does not tend to spread over the scalp as readily as in other directions. The treatment of tuberculous ulcers of the scalp, whether lupoid or of the ordinary- tuberculous type, is that recommended in Vol. II. p. 12. AIR TUMOURS. Collections of air beneath the scalp are sometimes met with after injuries about the head; they may occur in two forms. On the one hand, there may be a general emphysema of the scalp, the air being diffused through the cellular tissue, or, on the other, a localised tumour containing air, commonly termed a pneumatocele.