FRACTURES OF THE BASE OF THE SKULL fracture of the anterior fossa with compression from intra-cranial haemor- rhage, it is quite justifiable to trephine with tlie view of clearing out the clot and arresting the bleeding if possible. The trephine should be applied in the temporal fossa just in front of the ear and just above Reid's base line (see Chap. XXXVL). This gives good access to the base of the skull, and by lifting up the dura mater it may be possible to wash out the blood-clot with a gentle stream of warm sterilised normal salt solution, or to turn it out with a scoop. If the bleeding comes from the middle meningeal artery that vessel can usually be secured after enlarge- ment of the opening in the bone. It is not uncommon, however, to find that the blood is coming from a large venous sinus, such as the cavernous sinus, and if this be the case the best procedure, after removing the clot, is to introduce strips of gauze beneath the dura mater up to the bleeding- point so as to exercise pressure on it ; these strips are removed at the end of about twenty-four hours. Avoidance of Sepsis.—It is of the utmost importance to guard against the occurrence of sepsis as far as possible. This is a difficult matter because no proper disinfection of the wound in the soft parts or the bone can be carried out owing to the situation of the fracture ; at the same time there is not the same soiling of the fractured area as there is in a compound fracture of the vertex. Hence, if the subsequent entrance of sepsis can be avoided, the patient may escape septic complications. In fractures of the anterior fossa, the nasal cavity should be washed out gently with warm boric lotion so as to prevent blood-clot accumulating and undergoing putrefraction; the douching should be repeated several times daily for the first few days. No force must be used, otherwise the fluid may pass into the cranial cavity; the object of the douche is not to disinfect anything, but to wash away material which might otherwise undergo decomposition. As a rule the bleeding will stop spontaneously, but it is well to introduce cyanide gauze into the anterior nares ; this should not be pushed up to the region of the fracture, but should simply act as a filter for the air, and should be changed frequently. In fractures of the middle fossa, the external auditory meatus should be swabbed out with i in 2000 sublimate solution as far back as the membrana tympani, and aU clots should be washed out of the ear with a fine-nozzled irrigator. Great care must be taken to avoid douching under pressure, because the fluid cannot escape freely. The meatus is then packed with sterilised cyanide gauze, which should be changed frequently ; the douching may be repeated two or three times a day. Urotropine in doses up to twenty grains three times a day (provided it does not cause irritation of the bladder) is said to be of value in these cases, the drug decomposing to form an antiseptic substance which is secreted into the cerebro-spinal fluid. After-treatment.—The after-treatment is similar to that already described for fractures of the vault. III. A A