409 HERNIA CEREBRI changes have occurred, and only differs from the preceding type in that there is a hkeUhood of the wound becoming septic. (b) In other cases, the hernia cerebri occurs two or three days after an operation or injury. This is a much more severe form, and is sometimes spoken of as secondary hernia cerebri. In this form of hernia cerebri the protrusion of the brain is due to its surface becoming infiltrated with inflammatory exudation and to increase in the intra-cranial pressure from the congestion of the brain beneath. The protruded portion usually contains little cerebral matter, and is mainly composed of granulation tissue with lymph and pus infiltrating it. Suppuration generally occurs on the surface of the hernia, and in some cases, especially when the swelling continues to increase, a collection of pus will be formd in its interior, or even extending into the cranial cavity and forming a superficial cerebral abscess (see Fig. 176). These secondary herniae vary in size and are generally somewhat mushroom-shaped, for they expand after emerging through the opening in the skull. They are usually very vascular, and have a some- what constricted pedicle corre- sponding to the opening in the dura mater. They are covered with granulations which dis- charge pus freely, and are often gangrenous in patches. Pressure over them may lead to convulsions. A spontaneous cure sometimes results either from gradual cicatrisation of the whole mass, or from gangrene of the herniated portion and cicatrisation of the pedicle. As a rule, how- e\'er, the condition is followed by septic inflammation of the deeper parts of the brain leading to cerebral abscess, by lepto-meningitis, or by pya-mio. TREATMENT.—(«) Of hernice occurring at the time of the injury.— In these cases two conditions favouring the occurrence of hernia cerebri have to be dealt with : namely, the opening in the skin is usually over the hernia, and the parts have, moreover, been exposed to infection. The treatment of a compound fracture of the skull has already been described on p. J42, and it is unnecessary to repeat what has been said there. When protrusion occurs, the best treatment is to see that the base of the hernia is not constricted, and then to cover the protrusion Fig. 176.—' Secondary ' Septic Hernia Cerebri. There is a gap in tlie skull and the scalp, through which protrudes a mass of septic granulation tissue and brain matter forced out by the increased intra-cranial tension due to inflammation and suppuration (the dark area) in the brain.