42 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS persevere with the massage and movements the result is often extremely satisfactory. When it is evident that the bones cannot be replaced, or when the articular surfaces have undergone considerable alteration, excision is the best practice (see Chap. XXIII.). Before proceeding to remove any bone, the soft parts should be detached freely, traction made on the forearm, and any tendons or ligamentous structures divided which prevent the arm from coming down. Unless this be done, more bone than is desirable will have to be removed in order to obtain satisfactory movement, and an unduly loose joint may result. COMBINED BACKWARD AND LATERAL DISLOCATION. When reducing a combined lateral and backward dislocation, the surgeon ^brings the bones of the forearm downwards and inwards or outwards as the case may be. When operating for long-standing dislocations of this kind, it is advisable to make the lateral incision first upon the side towards which the forearm is dislocated, because in this situation the adhesions are more numerous and firmer than on the other. DISLOCATION OF BOTH BONES LATERALLY. Both bones of the forearm may be dislocated outwards or—much more rarely—inwards, without any dislocation backwards. The dislocation may be partial or complete. Dislocation of both bones outwards occurs from falls upon the hand when the elbow is partially flexed, the force being applied in such a direction that it drives the bones outwards. Generally, the radius passes sufficiently outwards to be quite free of the humerus, and it is usually also displaced forwards from the lesser sigmoid cavity. The ulna, on the other hand, rests upon the capitellum. In the in- complete variety the radius remains in contact with the articular surface of the humerus. Treatment.—The dislocation is reduced under an auEesthetic by shght extension combined with pressure inwards, the bones shpping into position readily. When no anaesthetic is used the patient should sit upon a chair, while the surgeon grasps the Hmb, extends it, and brings it across his knee, as described for dislocations backwards (see p. 38) ; the articular surfaces shp into position readily. The after-treatment is similar to that for dislocation backwards. Dislocation of both bones inwards.—This is very rare, on account of the downward projection of the inner condyle of the humerus, and considerable force is required to produce it. Treatment.—This is similar to that just described, except that the forearm is pressed outwards instead of inwards during reduction.