84 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS carbolic acid being applied to any part which is visibly soiled. To prevent these strong antiseptics passing into the joint a piece of sponge or a swab should be placed over the wound in the capsule so as to shut off the cavity of the joint for the time being. After the superficial wound has been disinfected, the interior of the joint should be examined, the opening in the capsule being enlarged, if necessary ; all blood and clots should be flushed out by a stream of warm sterilised saline solution, and the joint should then be filled up with i in 20 carbolic lotion. This is left in for about ten minutes, so as to give the antiseptic time to act, and is then washed away with a stream of sterilised saline solution. Pure carbolic acid should be applied to any part of the joint which is visibly soiled. The vigour with which the disinfection is carried out should be governed to a great extent by the length of time that has elapsed since the wound was inflicted, as well as by the degree of soiling that has taken place. If, for example, the wound is quite recent and is not materially soiled, the bacteria are presumably free in the joint cavity, and irrigation of the joint with i in 20 carbolic solution for a short time will probably suffice to destroy them. If, on the other hand, some hours have elapsed since the injury, disinfection must be much more energetically carried out, because by this time the bacteria will have begun to spread into the tissues. When the disinfection is complete, one or more drainage tubes are introduced into the joint, partly with the object of removing the s3movial effusion which is certain to occur in considerable amount as the result of the irritation of the antiseptic, and partly also lest the disinfection should not have been successful. If the external wound is large, stitches may be inserted at each angle, but the greater part of it should be left open. The limb must be put on a splint in a comfortable position. After-treatment.—As a rule the serous effusion will necessitate a change of dressing daily for the first week or more; but, should there be no rise of temperature or symptoms of acute inflammation about the wound after the first thirty-six hours, the fear of sepsis may be dismissed. The drainage tube should be retained for three to five days. The limb must be kept upon the splint until the wound has become superficial, but gentle passive movement should be employed after the first three days in order to prevent the formation of adhesions in the joint. In doing this it is advisable to throw a large piece of gauze, drip- ping wet with a I in 2000 sublimate solution, over the wound after taking off the dressings, and then, keeping it in position by the hand that steadies the limb, to perform the passive movements. When the wound has become superficial, full movement of the joint should be carried out—in the first instance, under a general anEesthetic. This should be followed by massage and passive movement, which should be continued until the movements are completely restored. When the attempt to obtain asepsis fails, the after-treatment must