AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE 314 limb on the affected side being apparently longer than the other because the pelvis is tilted downwards. Pain may be elicited by pressure over the joint behind, or by grasping the anterior superior ihac spines and trying to separate them. As time goes on, the pain and difficulty of movement increase, the leg often becomes swoUen from pressure on the iliac vein, and abscesses form in various situations in front of, or behind, the joint; if behind the joint, they point there, but they generally form in front, and may then burrow in various directions. For example, they may track upwards and point above the crest of the ilium, backwards through the sacro-sciatic notch into the buttock or the thigh, downwards through the obturator foramen or into the perineum, or outwards into the iliac fossa or along the sheath of the psoas muscle into the thigh. In young subjects, when recovery takes place, anchylosis follows, and oblique deformity of the pelvis is apt to result. TREATMENT.—The first essential is rest in the recumbent pos- ture between sand-bags, or better, in some arrangement like Phelps's box (see p. 302); no satisfactory apparatus has been constructed to allow the patient to get about. The actual cautery applied behind the articu- lation before suppuration has taken place is sometimes of use. When operative interference is desirable, the joint may be got at fi^om behind, and portions of bone chiselled away until the disease is reached. A long curved incision is made posteriorly, with the convexity running along the middle of the sacrum and going well above the crest of the ilium and downwards over the sacro-sciatic notch. The flap of skin and fascia and the gluteal muscles are turned outwards. A chisel is then applied to the ilium, and the sacrum and ilium are chiselled away until the whole joint is excised or the bone deposit is found and removed. Great care must be taken as the anterior surface is approached, on account of the vessels. In some cases the disease may be reached more con- veniently by enlarging the sciatic notch upwards.