169 DISEASES OF THE HIP-JOINT cross-pieces attached to the vertical bar and bent round to form wings on either side. The length of these wings is unequal on the two sides, the shorter ones being on the side corresponding to the affected limb. The upper wings encircle the thorax just below the axilla, the middle ones surround the middle of the thigh, whilst the lowest encircle the lower part of the calf. The splint is secured to the trunk by a broad bandage and by special shoulder braces, whilst the lower portion is fixed by bandages between the lower wings. It is also well to add a stout pelvic band, otherwise the pelvis may be moved to one side, and adduction or abduction may not be properly overcome. Thomas's original directions for the application of this splint are as follows : ' (i) The initial act should be to place the machine so far pos- teriorly that it is just out of sight behind the buttock when the patient is lying horizontal. (2) The machine should be pushed upwards until the upper wings are close to the patient's axilla. (3) An assistant should grasp the patient's leg, together with the lower part of the main stem, to hinder the machine from slipping downwards while the operator is manipulating, that is to say, twisting it so as to make it fit properly. (4) The surgeon should proceed first to fit the wings which grasp the sound side of the trunk, thigh and leg, and afterwards the other wings are adjusted. (5) The shoulder braces are to be adjusted ; afterwards the thigh and leg bandages.' When flexion is present at the time that the splint is applied, no attempt should be made to draw the leg forcibly into the straight position. It should be allowed to remain in the position which is comfortable to the patient; and in the course of a few days the weight of the limb itself, which is left unsupported behind the knee, will gradually bring the leg straight (see Fig. 61). Sometimes there is considerable pain for a day or two after the splint has been applied ; this is largely due to the weight of the limb, which is gradually producing extension at the hip-joint. If the pain be excessive, two or three pads may be placed behind the knee so as to take off the strain; these are gradually diminished in thickness so as to allow the limb to come down by degrees, which it will then do without pain. The patient should be encouraged to persevere with the splint in spite of the pain, which should cease when the limb has come into good position. A very serious fault, frequently committed by instrument makers, is to mould the splint to fit the body of the patient accurately whilst the limb is in the position of deformity. Thus it is curved forward in the loin to correspond to the amount of lordosis; below this comes the con- cavity for the buttock, and then it is bent forward again to correspond to the flexion of the leg. The result is that by no possibility can the flexion be overcome, as the apparatus fixes the limb in the faulty position. If a good result is to be obtained, it is absolutely essential to overcome the flexion, and, when a Thomas's splint alone is employed, this must be applied as he himself recommended ; namely, in the form of a straight