TUBERCULOSIS iig introduced into the substance of the synovial membrane, and the emulsion injected into it in small quantities, a drop or two here and there. The point of the needle of the syringe should be moved about all over the synovial membrane so as to distribute the emulsion. Finally, the needle should be made to penetrate the joint cavity itself, into which one or two drachms should be injected and left behind. In children, anaesthesia is necessary as a rule, but in adults the injection can usually be made without it. It is not necessary to make more than two or three punctures through the skin ; the needle can be pushed from one point to another subcutaneously. The injection should be repeated about once a week, the frequency mainly depending on the amount of reaction produced. The result is generally an increase in the swelling of the joint and some pain, which, however, pass off in two or three days. This treatment should be persevered with for a considerable time, until it is evident that no good is resulting, or that the disease is well on the way to recovery. Should abscesses form, this need not necessarily lead to the abandonment of the treatment. They should be washed out and injected with iodoform and glycerine or aspirated in the manner already described (see Vol. I. p. 236). Krause has indicated the principal spots in the chief joints where injections can be made most conveniently. In the ivrist the needle should be introduced below the styloid processes of the radius and ulna; in the elboie) it should be inserted over the head of the radius in front, and on each side of the olecranon behind ; in the shoulder either from the coracoid process in front or from the junction of the spine of the scapula with the acromion behind. In the ankle the most suitable spot is in front of or below the tips of the malleoli, the needle being thrust first inwards and then upwards (it may also, if necessary, be introduced behind, on either side of the tendo Achilhs); the best access to the tarsal joints is gained from the dorsum or sides of the foot. When it is desired to inject the hip, the thigh should be extended, adducted, and slightly rotated inwards and a long needle should then be entered above the great trochanter at right angles to the long axis of the thigh, and pushed in until it strikes the head of the femur, or the neck just beyond the head ; it is then guided up- wards along the bone until it enters the joint. Another method for the same purpose is described by Bvinger as follows : A line is drawn to the tip of the great trochanter from the point where the femoral artery crosses the brim of the pelvis, and the needle is entered at the spot where this line crosses the inner border of the sartorius muscle. If pushed upwards and backwards it will enter the joint. The back of the joint can be reached from the posterior border of the great trochanter. To inject the knee, the needle should be entered on each side of the patella and also in the supra-patellar pouch. Bier's Method.—-This method, by which venous congestion of the joint is produced, has been employed either alone or in combination