14 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS the supra-acromial dislocation, in which it lodges actuall}^ above it. These two forms are excessively rare, and, as the treatment is practically the same as for the other varieties, we need not refer to them further. DISPLACEMEj!N"T.—Sub-coracoid Dislocation.—The upper arm is directed somewhat backwards and outwards so that the elbow is away from the side. The forearm is supinated, there is marked flattening of the shoulder, and the head of the bone can be made out in its new situation. Sub-clavicular Dislocation.—The signs of this variety are usually those of the preceding one in an exaggerated degree ; not uncommonly the coracoid process is fractured by the head of the humerus as it passes upwards towards the clavicle. Sub-glenoid Dislocation.—Here there is generally much pain from the pressure of the head of the bone upon the nerves ; the elbow projects markedly from the side, the arm is slightly elongated, and the head of the bone can be felt in the axilla. There may be absence of pulse at the wrist from pressure on the axillary artery, or a rapid oedema of the hand from pressure on the vein. Subspinous Dislocation.—The arm is generally rotated inwards, is nearer to the side than in the other forms, and the long axis of the humerus is directed slightly forwards. TREATMENT OF SIMPLE DISLOCATIONS. Immediate reduction should be effected, and means must then be taken to retain the head of the humerus in the glenoid cavity. REDUCTIOIS".—Reduction may be effected either by manipulations, having for their object relaxation of the capsule and the miiscles and the re-introduction of the head of the bone through the rent in the capsule by which it left the joint ; or by traction, which brings the head of the bone down to the rent in the capsule. The patient should be placed under a general anesthetic. The pain of a dislocation is generally very severe, and the powerful muscles around the joint are kept in a state of such violent contraction that they offer great resistance to reduction ; when, however, the patient is aucesthetised, manipulations often suffice to replace the head of the bone with the greatest ease. Indeed, in the ordinary sub-coracoid cases, it is not at all uncommon to find that, by the time the patient is fully anaesthetised, the dislocation has reduced itself. When, however, no anaesthetic is at hand, the pain that the patient suffers may be so severe as to demand immediate reduction without waiting. The best method of reduction for dislocation downwards or forwards is by the manipulations introduced by Kocher and usually called by his name. It is performed as follows :— Kocher's Method.—When the patient is not under an anaesthetic he sits bolt upright in a chair, and an assistant steadies the trunk and fixes