AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD 430 end of the fissure of Rolando. The other edge of the paper runs down- wards and forwards at an angle of 67!°, and indicates the line of the fissure. The fissure being three and three-quarter inches in length, the lower end of it can also be marked out. It may also be necessary to indicate the posiiion of the fissure of Sylvius. Its bifurcation corresponds to a point two inches behind and about a quarter of an inch above the level of the external angirlar process of the frontal bone, and is situated just beneath the point of junction of the parietal, the great wing of the sphenoid, the frontal and the squamous bones. The anterior branch runs upwards and forwards beneath the line of the squamo-sphenoidal suture and forms the anterior boundary of the motor region. Figs. 180 and 181 show the relation of the convolutions to these fissures as well as the relation of the various centres. Before disinfection, it is well to mark out these lines on the scalp by painting them with a solution of thirty grains to the ounce of nitrate of silver ; this is allowed to dry, and then the lines are lightly brushed over with a solution of pyrogallic acid (gr. v. to the ounce). An indelible silver stain is produced which is not effaced when the scalp is purified, as is the case with marks made with an aniline pencil. The best ancesthetic is chloroform, because it causes least congestion of the brain, and it is advisable to administer a hypodermic injection of morphine (J to i gr.) with y|-^ gr. of atropine, about half an hour before the operation. It is well also to give oxygen from time to time during the course of the operation. Some surgeons prefer ether given by the open method, but venous congestion must be most carefully avoided. It is essential to have the services of a skilled anaesthetist, who will see that no more anaesthetic is given than is absolutely necessary, particularly in the later stages of the operation. There is no doubt that the after- effects depend more on the amount of anaesthetic administered than on the particular drug used. Position of the patient.—The head end of the operating table should be raised so as to diminish the amount of congestion, and a special head- rest is advisable. In operations on the cerebellum and occipital regions the patient is turned completely over on his face (see Fig. 185), the forehead resting on the head-rest and the shoulders being raised to allow free respiration to take place. The antesthetic is administered from below. These operations are likely to be followed b}' severe shock, and there- fore the measures recommended in Vol. I. p. 117 must be employed to diminish it. Special care must be taken to avoid undue haemorrhage. It is an excellent plan to apply a sterilised rubber tourniquet horizontally round the skull on a level with the glabella and the occipital protuberance (see Fig. 186). Ballance's forceps (see Fig. 139) will be found to be useful when a tourniqitet cannot be applied or after it has been taken off.