245 DISEASES OF THE ELBOW-JOINT TREATMENT.—When an operation is decided upon, the incision must be made on the side on which the foreign body has been felt, or over the seat of the pain. To explore the joint the lateral incisions recommended for excision (see p. 247) are best, as both the front and back of the joint can be examined through them. CHARCOT'S DISEASE. The chief point in the treatment of Charcot's disease of the elbow- joint is to provide a splint which will give a certain amount of firmness to the joint while permitting flexion and extension. This may be used after the stage of acute swelling has subsided, and should take the form of a leathei" case for the upper arm and another for the forearm, the two being connected at the elbow by jointed lateral steel rods. The splint must be held in place by bands passing over the shoulders. TUBERCULOUS DISEASE. This affection generally occurs in early adult life ; only about 33 per cent, of cases begin before ten years of age. As is the case with the disease elsewhere, the primary deposit may be in the synovial membrane, especially in the neighbourhood of the radio-ulnar articulation, or in the bone, usually in the olecranon or the external condyle of the humerus. It would appear that primary bone disease is more common than the primary synovial form. Owing to the superficial nature of the elbow- joint, it is sometimes possible to diagnose the presence of an osseous deposit before the joint has become involved, and this is particularly the case when it is situated in the olecranon. The disease runs the same course here as elsewhere. The swelling in the joint is most marked on each side of and above the olecranon ; the elbow is flexed and the forearm pronated. Abscesses most commonly point about the jxisterior and outer aspects of the joint. TREATMENT.—The treatment of tuberculous disease of the elbow-joint may l)e divided into expectant and operative treatment. Expectant Treatment.—The joint is put up with the forearm flexed to, or slightly beyond, a right angle, and the hand mid\\ay between pronation and supination, as this is the most useful position of the limb should the joint become stiff. A very good method of fixing the joint is to envelop the elbow in a large mass of cotton-wool and then to apply a bandage impregnated with a solution of silicate of potash firmly over it. The bandage should extend from the wrist—or in bad cases from the knuckles—up to the shoulder, and the forearm should be carried in a sling ; the fingers should be left free and the patient encouraged to move them. This apparatus is kept on for six or eight weeks, when lateral poroplastic or leather splints may be substituted