AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE 2g2 Osseous Deposits.—The deposits in the interior of the bone usually commence near the inter-vertebral cartilages, but not actually in connection with them, and rarely affect more than one or two vertebrae. They generally make their way to the surface on the anterior or lateral aspects of the bodies, and, having reached the surface, they spread beneath the periosteum and lead to superficial caries. They may also spread towards the adjacent inter-vertebral cartilage and destroy it either completely or in part. It is only in rare cases that they extend backwards and reach the posterior surface of the body. These deposits destroy the body of the vertebra in which they occur more or less com- pletely, while the weight of the trunk and the contraction of the muscles surrounding the spine cause the vertebrae above to sink down, and thus a curvature results. When only a single vertebra has been destroj'ed the curvature is very acute. Not uncommonly, however, two or three adjacent bodies are attacked simultaneously, the result being that the curvature is not so abrupt. Perhaps the most common condition is for one or two bodies to be more or less completely destroyed by primary deposits in their interior and, secondarily to this and as a consequence of periosteal extension, the inter-vertebral cartilages of several adjacent vertebras disappear ; in this way a gradual curve is formed affecting a number of vertebrcE, with a more acute curve in the centre due to complete destruction of one or more vertebral bodies. When the deposits reach the surface of the bone they often lead to the formation of an abscess either at the sides of the vertebral column or, should they extend back- wards, in the spinal canal itself. The deposits in the interior of the bone occur chiefly in children, and are less frequently associated with abscess than is the case with tuberculous periostitis. In these cases the destructive processes are to a large extent due to osteitis and absorption of the inflamed bone. The inflammation is set up in the first instance by the tuberculous disease, and is then kept up by the pressure of the inflamed bony surfaces against each other ; this pressure is partly due to the weight of the head and upper part of the spinal column causing bending of the bod}/ forwards at the seat of the disease, and partly to the contraction of the muscles surrounding the spine, which keep the inflamed parts in constant and firm contact. This tonic muscular contraction is of very great importance, because, unless measures are taken to counteract it, the curvature may go on in spite of the use of various forms of apparatus which apparently support the upper part of the spine. When the disease primarily attacks the transverse or spinous pro- cesses, it usually commences as a superficial caries quickly followed by abscess. SYMPTOMS.—The symptoms of tuberculous disease of the spine are well known and we need not go into them in any detail. In the early stages there is uneasiness and aching in the back, neuralgic pains around