INTRA-CRANIAL SUPPURATION FOLLOWING INJURY 387 and more closely in contact with the skull than usual, so that the fluid introduced will not diffuse itself over the surface sufficiently to wash away the pus. If irrigation is attempted in these cases, great care must be taken not to employ it under pressure, otherwise the fluid may find its way towards the base of the brain in such quantities as to cause fatal compression. Again drainage, whether by tubes or by horsehair passed between the openings, will only affect the immediately adjacent area and not the whole sub-dural space. Hence, while it is worth while to open up a wound if present, in the hope that the affection may be localised, the chances of doing good by any further operative measures are extremely slight. If a vaccine can be prepared it may be worth while to employ it, but in these cases vaccine treatment is not so hopeful as in the idiopathic forms. Litmbay piinciiire repeated daily may also be tried ; it is not likely to do any harm, and in some cases when the disease has been of otitic origin, good results have been reported. INTRA-CEREBRAL SUPPURATION. After a compound fracture, or intra-cranial suppuration, pus may form in the substance of the brain with or without intervening inflam- mation of the cerebral membranes or adhesion of them to each other. The result is an abscess in the brain, which is usually situated in the white substance underneath the seat of injury (see Fig. 161). The infection usually takes place by direct continuity, the membranes becoming adherent and suppuration taking place not only between the brain and the dura mater, but also deeper down in the substance of the brain itself. The abscesses of traumatic origin are most common in the frontal and parietal lobes, and in that situation they rarely give rise to definite localising symptoms. SYMPTOMS.—The classical symptoms produced by suppuration in the brain are those of increased intra-cranial pressure, and are described in connection with those of cerebral abscess following ear disease. When the abscess occurs after an injurj^ the symptoms may be identical, but in some cases of compound fracture, they are not so severe because the opening in the skull allows of the protrusion of brain substance—the condition known as hernia cerebri—and this prevents the occurrence of marked pressure symptoms. As a rule, when hernia cerebri is not present, the pulse is slow and the pyrexia is slight ; in fact, when there is considerable pyrexia with a quick pulse, the probability is that the case is one of meningeal inflammation rather than of cerebral abscess. Rigors are common and vomiting is not infrequent. TRBATMBNT,—The treatment is to open and drain the abscess. If hernia cerebri is present, it will usually suffice, both for diagnostic and operative purposes, to introduce a pair of sinus forceps into the hernia and push them in various directions, expanding the blades from time to time c c 2