66 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS The rent in the capsule takes some time to heal, and the patient must be careful in moving the knee. Passive movements must be employed from the first, and daily massage of the extensors of the leg should be begun as soon as haemorrhage into the joint has ceased. The patient should not walk for at least three weeks and then it is weU that he should wear either an elastic bandage around the knee or some form of elastic knee-cap for about three months to diminish the risk of recurrence. If knock-knee is present it should be treated (see Vol. I. p. 376). DISLOCATION OF THE PATELLA INWARDS. This rare condition generally results from a direct blow upon the upper and outer aspects of the bone. The treatment is similar to that of the variety just described ; an anaesthetic may be necessary. VERTICAL DISLOCATION OF THE PATELLA. In vertical dislocation of the patella, the bone is turned upon itself through an angle of nearly 90° so that one edge is caught in the groove between the condyles of the femur whilst the other points directly for- wards. The bone is usually twisted so that the anterior surface is directed outwards, while the articular surface looks inwards. It is almost always due to direct violence applied from the front and one side. The capsule is torn, usually over the internal condyle. TREATMENT.—Reduction is readily accomplished if the patient be placed under an anaesthetic. When the quadriceps is relaxed, pressure should be applied to the anterior edge of the pateUa, so as to rotate the bone into position. If this be unsuccessful, it is probably because the upper part of the bone is engaged in the inter-condyloid notch, and downward pressure must be applied to overcome this. Should this fail, the knee may be flexed somewhat and the bone thus disengaged, when pressure upon the edge of the bone will cause it to slip into position. Should the surgeon fail to effect reduction under an anaesthetic— which, however, is very unlikely—it may be necessary to make a small incision through the capsule on one side of the patella, and to introduce an elevator beneath the lower edge of the bone so as to lever it upwards while pressure is made upon the upper edge. The after-treatment in these cases is precisely similar to that for dislocation outwards. UNREDUCED DISLOCATION OF THE PATELLA. A dislocation of the patella may either be unrecognised, or reduction may have failed, and the patient may apply for reUef weeks and even months after the occurrence of the injury. In such cases operation may give satisfactory results. Two free vertical incisions are made through the capsule, one on