TRIGEMINAL NEURALGIA This operation can only be successful in a very few cases, because the orbital and posterior superior dental branches are given off before the nerve enters the infra-orbital canal. When therefore these branches are affected or when the pain recurs after the foregoing operation, the trunk of the second division together with Meckel's ganglion must be excised. Neurectomy of the superior maxillary nerve and ablation of Meckel's ganglion.—This may be done through a V-shaped incision with the apex downwards, the middle of the flap being a little below the infra- orbital foramen. The flap thus formed is turned upwards, and held or stitched out of the way. The infra-orbital nerve is then exposed as it emerges from the foramen, the soft parts are cleared from the bone, and a square hole measuring about three-quarters of an inch in each direction is cut out of the front wall of the antrum with a chisel. This should be so planned that the infra-orbital foramen lies slightly above the centre of the hole. A silk ligature is now fastened to the end of the nerve after it has passed out of the foramen to serve as a guide in the further procedures. After the bleeding has been arrested, a powerful light is projected into the wound from a forehead lamp or reflector, and a slightly smaller hole of similar shape is cut in the posterior wall of the antriun. The oozing here is free, but can be arrested by packing the cavity temporarilv with gauze soaked in adrenalin chloride (i in looo). The next step is to remove the floor of the infra-orbital canal as it traverses the i"oof of the antrum, and this is done, using the infra-orbital nerve as a guide, by very cautious strokes of a fine chisel or with a pair of stout scissors. It is very important to avoid dividing the nerve, otherwise an essential guide to the later stages of the operation will be lost. The floor of the canal is usually very thin, and can often be broken away hy introducing a fine steel probe or director alongside the nerve and bending it downwards. The whole floor of the canal is cut away as far as the posterior wall of the antrum, when the nerve will hang free in the cavity and can be traced up to its point of emergence from the foramen rotundum ; at the same time Meckel's ganglion is defined by means of a probe, the aperture in the posterior wall of the antrum being enlarged if necessary. The nerve is now grasped w ith long-handled forceps and pulled as far out from the base of the skull as possible, and removed together with the ganglion attached to it. This portion should measure, at least, an inch and three-quarters in length. If preferred, the nerve may be seized bv powerful forceps close to the foramen rotundum and pulled on forcibly until it is torn away from the skull. In any case, it should be pulled upon before being divided so that the cut end will retract inside the foramen, because a common cause of the neuralgia is a thickening of the periosteum in the foramina at the base of the skull, which gives rise to pressure upon the nerve as it passes through them. The oozing at this stage of the