DISEASES OF THE KNEE-JOINT 193 CHRONIC SYNOVITIS. Chronic synovitis of the knee-joint is not uncommon, and may either follow an injury or may appear without any obvious cause. Sometimes the effusion is extreme, when the case is spoken of as ' hydrops articuli'; in this condition the capsule may become enormously distended with fluid and, if allowed to go on, this may lead to very serious disability of the limb, on account of the stretching of the ligaments and consequent looseness and deformity of the joint. TREATMENT.—What has already been said relative to the treat- ment of chronic synovitis in general applies closely to that condition in the knee (see p. 105) ; indeed our previous remarks had reference mainly to the knee, and we need not therefore go further into the matter here. PAPILLARY SYNOVITIS. In speaking of diseases of joints in general we referred to the occurrence of papihary outgrowths from the synovial membrane due to hypertrophy of the synovial fringes ; these are generally most numerous in the neigh- bourhood of the articular cartilages, but may sometimes cover the entire synovial membrane, and may or may not be associated with rheumatoid changes in the bones (see Fig. 75). The condition affects various joints, but is most frequently found in the knee, where it may give rise to acute symptoms. The long villous processes float about in the joint, keep up considerable chronic synovitis with effusion, and frequently become nipped between the articular ends, so that the patient has sudden pain and sometimes locking of the joint with increase of the effusion. TREATMENT.—The condition is unaffected by baths, massage, and the other measures usually employed for rheumatoid arthritis. As far as our experience goes, the best method of treatment is to remove tlie affected portions of the synovial membrane. If this operation is not feasible, the injection of irritant fluids into the joint cavity may be tried with the view of causing adhesion of the villi to the capsule. Excision of the hypertvophied synovial membrane.—When the affec- tion is limited to one or two patches, the result is most satisfactory ; it is only necessary to remove the portion actually aftected, after which persistent massage and passive movement will entirely restore the functions of the joint. When, however, the whole synovial membrane is involved and requires removal, the subsequent mobility of the joint may be impaired; at any rate, prolonged treatment is necessary to prevent stiffness from contraction of the capsule, where the synovial membrane has been cut away. In some cases, however, even a certain amount of stiffness is preferable to the great pain and complete disability from which the patient suffers, and we strongly recommend that this method should III. o