270 AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE amount of this damage. The signs of the fracture are deformity, localised pain, and, in most cases, injury to the spinal cord. The deformity is only noticeable when the case is one of fracture of the body with dis- location forwards, and the amount evident when the patient is first seen is no measure of the degree of displacement at the time of the injury or of the damage done to the spinal cord ; it is not at all uncommon for the deformity to disappear, or at any rate to become distinctly less, when the patient is laid flat upon his back. This disappearance of the deformity does not however necessarily relieve the spinal symptoms at all, as these are caused by the damage done to the cord at the time of the accident. In cases of fracture of the neural arch there is seldom any noticeable deformity, but sometimes crepitus and mobility can be made out by lateral pressure on the spinous processes. In fractures of the bodies, on the other hand, mobility and crepitus are usually absent. There is generally more or less complete paralysis of motion and sensation in the parts supplied by the nerves coming off from the cord at or below the seat of injury. This varies with the amount of damage done to the cord, and, if it is not completely destroyed, the motor paralysis is more marked than the sensory. Above the area of complete sensory paralysis there is generally a zone of hypersesthesia due to irritation of the nerves in the neighbourhood of the fracture. The reflexes are abolished at the time of the accident, but may become re-established later on ; their return generally indicates a partial lesion of the cord. In fractures of the spines or the laminae the pressure effects on the cord, if any, are usually only partial. Certain special symptoms accompany fractures of the spine, of which the following may be mentioned :— Urinary disorders.—^These are met with in all fractures above the lower lumbar region. When the fracture is in the dorso-lumbar region there is generally incontinence of urine ; when it is higher up, there is retention with overflow. After a time, in spite of the greatest care, the bladder becomes the seat of cystitis, the urine is filled with thick, ropy muco-pus, and later on, the inflammation spreads upwards and leads to pyelo-nephritis. A variety of organisms may be present in the urine, of which bacilli belonging to the coli group are the most common. There is generally much priapism—often painless, but sometimes causing considerable inconvenience. Alimentary troubles.—When the fracture is in the lower dorsal region there is often considerable interference with the S3''mpathetic nervous system, leading to intestinal disturbances—such as vomiting, tympanites, and constipation. This condition is aggravated by the paralysis of the abdominal muscles, and may be so severe as to simulate acute intestinal obstruction. Respiratory troubles.—Fracture in the upper dorsal region entails