AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 124 mainly because the patient does not realise that there is anything serious the matter until the joint itself has become affected. Even when such cases do come under observation, it is difficult to recognise the existence of these deposits at an early stage. The chief point in the diagnosis is localised thickening of some part of the epiphyses of the bones entering into the joint, unaccompanied by marked pain or tender- ness, and often occurring after some slight accident in a patient who either has a tuberculous family history or is the subject of tuberculosis elsewhere ; this tliickening tends to increase steadily. A radiogram should always be taken and may show the lesion quite definitely. In the early stages, however, they are not always evident. Treatment.—-When the deposit can be diagnosed sufficiently early, the point for consideration is whether it is possible to remove the deposit before the joint is affected and without opening it. In super- ficial and easily accessible bones very successful operations of this kind have been performed. It is essential that the joint itself should not be opened, otherwise it may be infected during the removal of the deposit. The incisions should therefore be planned so as to avoid wounding the synovial mem- brane ; at the same time, however, they must be sufficiently free to give full access to the affected region. When the bone is exposed, the periosteum is detached, and the dense compact tissue is cut away with a gouge over the affected area. The cancellous tissue may be cleared out with Barker's flushing gouge until the deposit is reached. A soft caseating deposit is recognised either by the presence of cheesy material or by its semi-gelatinous character and the absence of bone trabeculas. On the other hand, a sequestrum is a yellow, dense, bony mass in the substance of the cancellous tissue. When the deposit has been cleared out, the cavity in the bone should be packed firmly until the oozing has ceased. The packing is then removed and undiluted carbolic acid is apphed to the interior of the cavity, the edges of the wound in the soft parts being held widely open. As this application is immediately followed by some oozing which tends to dilute the acid, the procedure should be repeated two or three times. The cavity in the bone should next be washed out with a i in 2000 sub- limate solution, and then some of the 10 per cent, iodoform and glycerine emulsion (see p. 118) is introduced and the wound stitched up without a drainage tube. Should the operation be successful, the wound heals by first intention and the cavity in the bone gradually fills up with fibrous tissue which ultimately undergoes ossification. The limb should be kept on a spUnt for several weeks so as to favour the organisation of the clot. In some cases there may be a tuberculous deposit in bones that are not readily accessible and where, therefore, there is no question of immediate operation. In these cases complete rest should be insisted upon, together with the application of splints. In a certain number of cases the actual