317 NEW GROWTHS tuheradons tumours, and syphilitic guinuuita occur ; echinococcus cysts have also been found. In the early stages, pain extending down the limbs, varying with the seat of the tumour, is usually the first symptom. As time goes on, the pain is associated with clonic spasms, usually accompanied, first, by extension of the affected limbs, and later, as the extensors lose their power earlier than the flexors, by flexion ; the condition known as spastic paraplegia thus develops. This is followed by complete paralysis of motion and later of sensation. The symptoms are frequently unilateral or, at any rate, more marked on one side than the other, and the motor paralysis is then generally on the same side as the tumour, while the anaesthesia is on the opposite side. There is also usually hypersesthesia on the same side as the tumour in the early stages, and the reflexes are exaggerated on that side ; in the late stages the reflexes ai"e absent. Usually there is a certain amount of dull pain in the back in the situation of the tumour, and there may be spasm of other muscles as well as those of the limbs ; sometimes there is spasm of the spinal muscles leading to scoliosis.' Along with the paralysis there is, in the early stages, retention of urine, followed later by incontinence with cystitis, paralysis of the bowel, and bed-sores. Unless relieved by operation, the patients usually die in from one to three years from exhaustion, bed-sores, pneumonia, or nephritis. TREATMENT.—The treatment of cases of tumour of the spinal cord is laminectomy and removal of the growth. If left alone, the patient is certain to die, and, although the tumour may not be removable, yet, in a considerable number of cases—about 80 per cent, according to Horsley—the symptoms may be relieved entirely by operation, and even those in which the pain cannot be entirely relieved will be much benefited by the diminution of the pressure. An important point with regard to operative treatment is that the pain is always referred to a lower level than the lesion, and therefore it is of great importance in operating to open the spinal canal well above the suspected area. Laminectomy.—The steps of the operation have already been described (see Vol. II. p. 131). In these cases it may very often be possible to turn up the lamins eii bloc without removing them (see Vol. II. p. 133). When the dura mater has been exposed and when it is seen that the tumour is not external to it, it must be opened by a free median incision with the usual precautions against too sudden escape of cerebro- spinal fluid. Not infrequently the tumour is found between the dura ' For further information on the subject of the symptoms and locaUsation of these tumours various authorities may be consulted. The first paper was published by Gowers and Horsley, in the Medico-Chirnrgical Transactions as long ago as 1888. See also Starr in The Medical News, February 1895 ; Thorburn : On the Surgery of the Spinal Cord.