AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD 388 until pus is reached. When the pus is evacuated, the adjacent portions of the brain, which are much infiltrated with inflammatory material, may be scraped away sufficiently to establish a free opening into the abscess cavity. A drainage tube should be introduced, and the general treatment for hernia cerebri (see Chap. XXXIV.) carried out. INTRA-CRANIAL SUPPURATION RESULTING FROM MIDDLE-EAR DISEASE. Intra-cranial suppuration most frequently occurs in connection with suppuration of the middle ear and mastoid antrum. It may also, though more rarely, follow disease of the frontal sinus or of the various sinuses connected with the nasal cavity. Before passing on to the consideration of the various complications of ear disease, we may briefly refer to the changes in the middle ear which lead to these troubles. For fuller details, works on aural surgery should be consulted. Acute Suppurative Otitis Media.—This condition is usually due to infection which has spread up the Eustachian tube. It is common in the course of acute fevers, especially measles and scarlatina, but it may come on during the course of any acute infection of the naso- pharynx. In the acute form the chief symptoms are severe, deep-seated pain in the ear, accompanied by a sense of fullness and throbbing ; there is always some deafness and occasionally there is severe tinnitus. The constitutional symptoms are marked, the temperature is raised, running especially high in children, and in them the combination of pain and febrile disturbance may produce a clinical picture resembhng diffuse meningitis. On examining the ear with a speculum the meatus is found to be extremely tender and swollen, so that it is often difficult to make a proper examination without an antesthetic. The membrane itself is injected and bulging, and may even show a small yellowish area where the pus is actually pointing. Treatment.—Any infection of the nose or throat should be attended to first. When pus has formed, free drainage of the middle ear should be established by incision of the membrana tympani. This operation, although trivial, is extremely painful and should be performed under a general anaesthetic. The meatus should be swabbed out with pledgets of wool soaked in i in 20 carbolic acid lotion, and, a good view of the membrane having been obtained through as large a speculum as possible, the point of a myringotome (see Fig. 163) is entered below and behind the handle of the malleus. An incision is then made upwards and backwards cutting the membrane right across and opening its postero-superior angle. The pus should be sucked out with a Siegel's speculum, the meatus