AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS io8 obscure. We have included it among the inflammatory affections, but it is not certain that it is really of this nature. It is described here merely because it is more convenient to consider it in this connection on account of the chronic synovitis to which it gives rise. By some it is considered to be allied to rheumatoid arthritis, and no doubt the condition is found in many rheumatoid joints. On the other hand, a most extensive papillomatous condition of the synovial membrane may be met with without any other sign of rheumatoid change in the joints, and it is most probable that when osteo-arthritic changes are found they are the result of the constant irritation of the joint from the presence of these villi. The affection is often multiple, and may involve several joints. Those most frequently attacked are the knee and the ankle, and the result is not only persistent effusion of fluid into the joint, but frequent attacks of sudden disabihty, which closely resemble those caused by displaced cartilages, and which are due to nipping of the fringes between the ends of the bones. Besides the effusion of fluid, which varies in amount, there is often tenderness over various parts of the joint. When the articulation is palpated, the fringes may often be felt rolling under the finger, and giving rise to marked crepitation. Schuchardt gives the following as the most frequent seats of pro- liferation in the various joints. In the shoulder the fringes mostly occur round the articular surface of the scapula, in the bicipital groove and in the neighbourhood of the anatomical neck of the humerus; in the elbow they are met with most frequently about the head of the radius, beneath the annular hgament and in the pockets of synovial membrane in front and behind ; in the radio-ulnar joint they are on the dorsal surface ; in the hip they are most frequent in the neigh- bourhood of the head of the bone; in the knee they surround the patella and are present at the reflection of the synovial membrane and in the supra-patellar pouch. In this joint we have found them most frequently over the lateral reflections of the pouch, so that they can be felt over the condyles ; they also occur in connection with the ligamentum mucosum. In the ankle they occur at the anterior attachment of the synovial membrane to the tibia. Treatment.—This is very difficult, and it is not easy to see how a uniformly good result can be obtained; no constitutional remedies are of any value. When the trouble is limited to one joint, it is clear that the most promising measure is to dissect away the whole of the affected area of the synovial membrane; and when this does not involve removal of the entire synovial membrane, we have obtained excellent results, particularly in the knee. Should the condition be more or less universal, however, the whole of the synovial membrane must be removed, and, seeing that the ligaments must be freely divided in order to enable this to be done, considerable