AFFECTIONS OF THE LIPS 464 be followed by mercurial treatment is a matter which is in dispute at the present time, but there can be no doubt of its'great value in the first instance (see Vol. I. Chap. XL). MUCOUS PATCHES. The chief secondary affections of the lips are mucous patches, which occur most frequently about the angles of the mouth and on the mucous surface. In the former situation especially, these patches are apt to ulcerate and give rise to irregular ulcers which are extremely painful. These sores are also highly infective. An intravenous injection of salvarsan should be given at once. TUMOURS. Tumours of the lips may be either innocent or malignant. N^VUS. The lip is sometimes the seat of an extensive subcutaneous venous nasvus causing great sweUing and deformity, which is difficult to treat. It is more common in the upper Up than in the lower. TREATMENT.—The best method of treatment is electrolj'sis; this is dealt with in Vol. I. p. 256. LYMPHANGIOMA. The condition known as macro-cheilia, or congenital hypertrophy of the lip is most probably lymphangiomatous in nature. One or both lips may be affected, generally the lower. The deformity is considerable ; the lip is much everted and pendulous, and its surface is frequently ulcerated. This ulceration leads to further thickening. TREATMENT. — This is a matter of great difficulty. The de- formity can be corrected by an operation similar to that recommended for hypertrophy of the lip in tuberculous patients (see p. 462) ; but in lymphangiomatous cases there is a grave risk of septic comphcations, and excision should therefore be avoided, if possible. Electrolysis (see Vol. I. p. 256) will suffice in a considerable number of cases and, if it fails, excision will then be less dangerous, because the lymphatic spaces will be more or less blocked, as the result of the previous treatment. Before the excision, the teeth should be attended to and scaled if necessary, and during the operation arrangements should be made to prevent saliva running freely over the wound. The wound should be accurately stitched up with fine catgut, and it is weU to paint it over with Whitehead's varnish, made by adding i vol. of turpentine to g vols, of a saturated