31 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER Operative methods.—On the other hand, in sub-glenoid and sub-coracoid dislocations the patient may have a useless arm, or he may suffer so much pain that life is intolerable. As these accidents not infrequently occur in young adults, operation is often absolutely necessary to obtain a useful arm. Cases have been operated upon as long as eight months after the dislocation, and the head of the bone has been replaced in position with most satisfactory results ; in the more recent cases, these results are better than those obtained by excising the head of the bone. There- fore in all cases of intense pain, and in all those in young and healthy patients, the aim of the surgeon should be to see whether he cannot replace the head of the hone by operation, and he should only proceed to the alternative of excising the head of the bone when he hnds that this is impossible. The joint may be exposed by the incision recommended on p. 26, and the flap containing the deltoid is pulled outwards and the pectoralis major inwards. If there are many adhesions and fuller exposure of the joint is required, a second incision may be added to this a finger's breadth below and parallel to the acromion and the clavicle dividing the clavicular iibres of the pectoralis major. The circumflex nerve must be preserved from injury. The fibrous structures about the anatomical neck are carefully detached from the head and neck all round by a periosteum detacher, taking care to keep close to the bone. If the vessels and nerves are adherent, they will be detached along with these structures, and thus the risk of their being torn is reduced to a minimum. After the head and neck of the bone have been fully cleared, extension is applied to the humerus, which will cause any resistant bands to be put on the stretch, so that they can be localised by the finger and divided. The capsule is nearly always so distorted and adherent as to be of no use, and the glenoid cavity itself will probably be filled up with soft tissue. The cavity should be cleared out, so as to restore it to its normal depth, and any remains of the capsule that obstructs the re-position of the head dissected away. Any osteophytic outgrowths around the head of the bone should be trimmed off with a gouge. As a rule the head of the bone can now be replaced, but in very long-standing cases it may be necessary to divide some of the muscles attached to the tuberosities, especiaUy the supra- and infra-spinatus. The sub-scapularis should not be interfered with if it be possible to get the head of the bone into position by pulling its tendon down, but sometimes it may be necessary to divide it. Division of the muscles should be practised gradually so as to see the effect that successive divisions produce, as, if even only a portion of the insertions of the muscles into the tuberosities be left intact, satisfactory union will take place in the remainder without any necessity for suturing them at the end of the operation. If, however, complete separation of all the muscles attached to the great tuberosity should be necessary, it