AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 2l8 The after-treatment will be similar to that just described. When the case does not do well, amputation through the leg may be necessary. ACUTE OSTEO-MYELITIS OF THE OS CALCIS. The commonest seat of acute osteo-myelitis in the foot is the os calcis: the disease here generally gives rise to an abscess which for- tunately finds its way externally rather than into the neighbouring joints. In this bone it usually takes the form of acute epiphysitis, so that the principal focus of disease is situated in the immediate neigh- bourhood of the posterior epiphyseal line, and necrosis may occur in that situation. Sometimes, when there is necrosis of the entire os calcis, the calcaneo-astragaloid or calcaneo-cuboid articulation may become affected. TREATMENT.—The risk of the inflammation spreading to the tarsal joints is a reason for early operation. The bone should be exposed by a curved incision, with its convexity backwards over the inner or outer aspect of the heel, the periosteum incised, the compact bone chiselled through, and the interior gouged freely out, so as to afford exit for the pus. This treatment is the best when the disease is seen in the early stages and is limited to the bone. In the later stages excision of the bone may be performed, provision being made for free drainage. When the disease has spread to the neighbouring joints, particularly the calcaneo-cuboid, it may be best to amputate. This, as a rule, should be done through the lower third of the leg, as it is impossible to perform a Syme's operation without infecting the flaps. When the inflammation implicates the ankle-joint, and the symptoms do not abate in spite of free drainage and constant irrigation, amputation is called for and should be performed not lower than the middle of the leg. RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS. This affection has already been fully described (see p. 141). It is not uncommon in the ankle and tarsus, and the pain may be so great as to incapacitate the patient completely. In the case of the ankle-joint, the question of excision of the astragalus will arise. The decision will depend to some extent upon whether the ankle is the only joint affected or whether several are attacked. Should the disease be confined to one ankle it is quite justifiable to relieve the patient's pain and enable him to get about by removal of the astragalus and any osteophytes that may be present. Should this be undesirable, the weight of the limb may be taken off the foot bv the use of a peg-leg (see Fig. 86).