338 AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD can then be controlled by light sponge pressure, and the vessels picked up and tied. This is a much better plan than attempting to secure the vessels as the operation proceeds. It is nearly always possible to bring the edges of the skin together afterwards by the use of tension stitches, but when this cannot be done, the margins of the wound should be approximated as far as possible, the part left open being allowed to granulate or being covered with skin-grafts. For the largest nsevi, electrolysis (see Vol. I. p. 256) is the best treatment, combined, if desired, with excision after the size of the ngevus has been reduced. CIRSOID AND OTHER ANEURYSMS. The scalp is a favourite seat of cirsoid aneurysm, which usually affects the auriculo-temporal region. In this form the arteries become elongated and tortuous as well as dilated. The capillaries are also dilated, and the accompanying veins may likewise be involved ; the result is the formation of a tumour composed of tortuous vessels. The cause of this condition is practically unknown. Sometimes there is a history of injury; in other cases the condition apparently arises in a previously existing naevus. TREATMENT.—The treatment of cirsoid aneurysm is a matter of difficulty, and a great variety of methods have been employed. The best of all is extirpation, whenever the situation or the size of the tumour permits of its employment. In carrying out extirpation of the tumour, the main trunks of the arteries feeding it should be first exposed and ligatured. In the ordinary situation, the trunk of the temporal artery must be exposed as it passes over the zygoma, and after it has been tied, the skin may be dissected off the tumour, any redundant portion over the most prominent part being removed ; outlying large vessels are clamped, and the mass of dilated vessels is taken away. The only limit to excision is the extent of the tumour. When this is very large and much skin has to be taken away, the space may, however, be filled up by skin-grafts. In cases which are not suitable for excision, various other methods of treatment have been recommended, such as ligature of the main trunk of the external or the common carotid arteries, the application of caustics, the use of electrolysis, or the injection of coagulating materials ; but these methods are unreliable and ineffectual. True aneurysms are rare and can generally be dealt with by the direct operation (see Vol. II. p. 181). False aneurysms, the result of injury, ma}^ however, be met with, and in former times were not very uncommon. They were usually found on the anterior branch of the temporal artery and arose in connection with phlebotomy. Aneurysmal varix may also arise from simultaneous puncture of the vein and the artery. The treatment of these conditions is excision of the sac (see Vol. II. p. 169).