AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD 424 solution. As much of the cyst wall as possible should be excised, but care must be taken not to injure the cerebral cortex. If there is much oozing during the operation it is advisable to introduce a drainage tube and leave it in for two or three days. The most difficult cases are those in which there is a cicatrix in the brain over the centre in which the disturbance originates. In these cases, it is recommended that a portion of cortex should be excised along with the cicatrix. This will, however, be followed by formation of a cicatrix and possibly a I'ecurrence of symptoms, and consequently many surgeons are averse to such a proceeding. Moreover, the excision, if extensive, may be followed by paralysis, and it becomes a question whether it is worth the patient's while to have a paralysed limb in place of the epileptiform attacks. It will generally be found that it is so, if the attacks are severe; and besides, it often happens that some substitution of function takes place, and the paralysis diminishes in extent. As a rule, the tendency is to do. too little rather than too much in the way of removal of bone, cicatrices, or adhesions. It is most important to avoid adhesion between the brain and the tissues over it after operation; this complication is apt to occur when portions of the dura mater have to be removed, and, if it does, the symptoms will probably recur. A favourite means of avoiding this difficulty is to introduce between the brain and the dura mater a piece of sterilised gold-foil or thin sheet-rubber; this seems to be non-irritating and to prevent adhesions between the brain and the margins of the dura. It remains permanently in position, and in operations for epilepsy or for the removal of tumours it is well to make use of something of this kind. Under such circumstances it is impossible to replace the bone, because the substratum is non-vascular. TUMOURS OF THE BRAIN. Tumours in the brain may be either true neoplasms or masses of tuberculous or syphilitic origin; the most common are tuberculous nodules, ghomata, sarcomata, syphihtic gummata, and cysts of various kinds (blood-cysts, echinococcus cysts, cysts in tumours). Endothe- liomata are not infrequent; they are perhaps most often found in the cerebellum. The presence of a tumour is not always easy to determine, and the differential diagnosis of its nature is often impossible. The presence of localising and pressure symptoms, the occurrence of optic neuritis and the existence of a localised tender spot on pressure on the skull will raise a strong suspicion of the existence of a tumour. As to its nature, the history or presence of other lesions elsewhere (syphilitic, tuberculous, carcinomata) will give a hint which may be strengthened by Von Pirquet's reaction for tuberculosis, Wassermann's reaction for syphilis, or the