336 AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD week the dressing may be soaked off with acetone, and the stitches removed. When the cyst wall has become inflamed and adherent to the surrounding parts, the tumour must be dissected out, and great care taken not to leave any part of the cyst wall behind. A general anesthetic will usually be necessary. The key to a satisfactory operation is to define the deeper part of the cyst wall where the inflammation is usually less, and then, by passing a dissector around the wall from this region, it will generally be possible to get an indication of the limits of the c\'st and remove it entire. A drainage tube must be put in for two or three days, lest the wound should become infected as the result of the previously existing suppuration. DERMOID CYSTS. Dermoid cysts are most frequent about the external angular process of the frontal bone, the root of the nose and the region of the fontanelles. The chief point of interest in connection with these cysts is their differential diagnosis from meningocele, with which they are apt to be confounded. They are not, however, influenced in size by pressure, they do not diminish during sleep, and their contents are not so fluid as those of meningoceles. TREATMENT—The treatment of these cysts is removal by dissection and not by incision of the cyst, as de- scribed in speaking of sebaceous tumours. It must be remem- bered that a dennoid cyst does not lie in the skin as a sebaceous cyst does, but in the subcutaneous cellular tissue. CARCINOMA AND SARCOMA. Carcinomata of the scalp may grow either from the superficial epithelium or from the sebaceous glands. Those which grow from the superficial epithelium resemble the skin carcinomata found elsewhere. They spread both superficially and deeply, become adherent to the skull, and infect the neighbouring lymphatic glands. Those which grow from the sebaceous glands frequently originate from a sebaceous cyst which ruptures, fungates, and ultimately presents the appearance of a carcinomatous ulcer. These are sometimes only locally malignant, but they may ultimately become