407 HERNIA CEREBRI In the other class of case the hernia cerebri follows opei'ations performed for purposes oilier than decompression. Thus it may follow any operation in which a portion of the bone has been lost and the dura mater has been opened : for example, operations for tlie removal of a tumour or of blood-clot, or operations for epilepsy. In these cases, the healthy brain substance protrudes through the opening in the skull as the result either of oedema of the brain—as may happen when there has been sudden relief of pressure after the removal of a blood-clot or tumour—or of some temporary' cause of increased intra-cranial pressure. These cases are often spoken of as primary hernia cerebri (see Fig. 175, A). A primary hernia cerebri following an operation in which the cause of compression has been removed does not lead to any serious trouble. If the opening in the dura mater is large and the flap of skin has been replaced and completely sutured, the oedematous condition of the brain soon subsides and the protrusion gradually retracts within the skull as healing occurs. Sometimes, however, the case does not follow this favourable course, because complications may arise which prevent the return of the brain ; for example, when the opening in the diu'a mater is small, the protruded portion of the brain may become constricted at its base, its circulation interfered witli, and the oede- matous condition of the protruded portion so much increased that it cannot return through the opening. A similar difficulty mav also occur when the protruding brain contracts adhesions to the margin of the opening so that, even if the oedema subsides, complete recession of the protruded portion cannot take place ; this, however, rarely happens to any serious degree unless inflammation has occurred (see Fig. 175, B). TREATMENT. —On account of the risk of hernia cerebri when the dura mater has been opened, all cerebral operations must be planned so as to prevent this accident. It is chiefly for this reason that the flap method of exposing the skull before trephining is employed ; the cicatrix in the soft tissues is thereby removed from tlie vicinity of the opening in the skull, and tliis undoubtedly diminishes the risk of hernia. For this reason also, the dura mater is opened by a cur\'ed incision with the curve in the opposite direction to that of the flap in the skin (see Fig. 158), and the incision in the dura mater is sewn up closely with fine catgut. When it is not possible to bring the edges of the dura mater closely together, the gap in the membrane should be bridged with catgut somewhat in the way in which a stocking is darned, so as to present a barrier against the escape Fig. 174.—Hernia Cerebri pro- duced BY A ' Decompression ' Opera- tion. The scalp has united and the increased intra-cranial tension produced by the tumour (shaded dark area), causes the brain to protrude tlirough the large gap purposely left in the dura mater.