465 TUMOURS solution of iodoform in ether. During the after-treatment the mouth should be frequently rinsed out with lotions of sanitas or boro-glyceride (a teaspoonful of each to a small tumbler of water). Condy's fluid is not so good, because it stains the skin if it is strong enough to act as an ef&cient mouth-wash. CYSTS. Cysts in connection with the muciparous glands are not at all uncommon. Usually they form small isolated tumours, but sometimes the condition may extend over the whole lip, causing eversion and a very unjileasant deformity. TREATMENT.—In the case of single cysts it is usually sufficient to clip away the portion of the cyst-wall projecting into the mouth, which is easily done by painting over the mucous membrane with cocaine, seizing the prominent part of the cyst in catch-forceps and clipping it away with scissors, making sure that the cyst-wall is removed as well as the mucous membrane covering it. Any portion of the cyst-wall left may be touched with undiluted carbolic acid, care being taken to avoid cauterisation of the surrounding mucous membrane. The after- treatment consists in the use of a mouth-wash of chlorate of potash or sanitas. When tJieve is a difuse cystic condition extending along the lip, the best plan is to excise the projecting mass containing the cysts, so as to restore the lip to its proper shape. The operation is very similar to that for hypertrophied lip (see p. 462). The edges of the wound are brought together with catgut and a mouth-wash is employed subsequently. EPITHELIOMA. The lower lip is a common seat of epithelioma, which generally occurs towards one side of the lip and is often attributed to irritation in connection with smoking ; it frequently occurs, however, in non- smokers. Both the flat, slow-growing, and the more rapid tuberous forms may be met with, and the cases vary considerably in malignancy. On the whole, the growth, which occurs generally in old people, is not very malignant, and not uncommonly there is no recurrence after early and free excision. If left alone, the disease gradually destroys the lip, causing constant dribbling of saliva, and difficulty in taking food and in talking. It may spread from the lower lip to the upper, and it often extends to the lower jaw. The glands in the submental, and especially in the submaxillary, regions become infected sooner or later. Its point of origin is generally at the junction of the cutaneous with the mucous surface. When it arises on the latter, the growth is generally more rapid in. HH