TRIGEMINAL NEURALGIA 485 fine Spencer Wells's forceps and serves as a safe guide to the ganglion. The surgeon now proceeds to identify the remaining divisions of the nerve, a proceeding requiring great care owing to the proximity of the cavernous sinus. B3/ detaching the dura mater inwards towards the middle line, the foramen rotundum is identified with the second division passing through it ; the smaller ophthalmic division lies above it. The sixth nerve is also brought into view, lying above and parallel to the second division and must be carefully protected from injury. During the whole of this stage the operator is likely to be much hampered by the free and continuous oozing that takes place from the small veins joining the cavernous sinus ; this must be arrested by pressure, small pieces of sponge upon long-handled forceps being thrust down into the bottom of the wound and held there for a short time. An excellent instrument devised by Crile for this purpose is seen in Fig. 219. Small pledgets of gauze are packed down on to the bleeding points and held firmly in place by the depressor, which does not get in the operator's way and only applies the pressure where it is needed. When the branches of the nerve have been identified, the surgeon proceeds to find and remove the ganglion itself. To do this, the divided end of the third division is traced back to the ganglion where it lies in a compartment in the dura mater at the apex of the petrous portion. In freeing the ganglion the dura mater may be opened, but this is not a serious accident; indeed, it facilitates the operation somewhat, as it allows the dura mater to collapse and so gives better access to the ganglion. The edge of the ganglion is separated behind with a fine dissector and it is then raised from its bed—if necessary with a few touches of a tenotome—and seized firmly in strong forceps. With these it is partly pulled and partly dissected away from behind forwards. It is generally recommended that the motor root of the ganglion, as well as the first division, should be left untouched; no doubt this is advisable if it can be done, but there is generally so much oozing that accurate differentiation is not easy, and in that case it is best to cut across the third division—and with it the motor part—early in the operation. As the ganglion is detached and pulled forwards, the second division is lifted away from the outer wall of the cavernous sinus to which it is closely adherent, and thus damage to this important structure is avoided. Finally this nerve is cut off flush with the foramen rotundum and the ganglion comes away, the ophthalmic division being often torn across in the process. The venous oozing will generally cease directly the dura mater is allowed to fall back into place, and it will rarely be necessary to put a drainage tube into the cranium and, still more rarely, to plug the wound with gauze to arrest bleeding. This latter step may be necessary, however, should the cavernous sinus be wounded in the later stages of the operation ; the bleeding then is most l)rofuse. There is no need to fasten either the divided zygoma or the temporal tendon into place, if the motor root of the nerve has been