AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE 448 the bones ; in the latter case, necrosis of the nasal bones takes place, and the bridge of the nose is flattened, the tip is turned up, and a most unsightly deformity is produced. Gummata also occur in the tissues over the cartilage of the tip of the nose, leading to ulcers which generally yield readily to anti-syphilitic treatment, and leave only scars or some slight deformity about the margin of the nostrils. Nodular syphilides may cause widespread destruction of the nose. They commonly commence about the tip of the organ, which is rapidly destroyed. The diagnosis is difficult in early cases ; the affection is apt to be confounded with lupus, the chief points in the diagnosis being the more rapid spread of the syphilitic lesion, the absence of the characteristic apple-jelly nodules, the larger size of the nodules and the extension of the disease to the bones. In advanced cases the bony structures of the nose may be destroyed completely, so that nothing is left of the organ but an oval opening on the face. The disease also extends along the nasal cavity, destroying the vomer or the hard palate. TREATMENT.—-The treatment of the primary and secondary lesions presents no points of difference from that already recommended for the disease in general (see Vol. I. Chap. XL). The gummatous form of the disease affecting the frontal bone is dealt with in connection with diseases of the skull (see p. 362). The nodular syphilide of the nose is more important in that it .spreads with great rapidity and the deformity is irreparable ; therefore the patient must be brought under the influence of anti-syphilitic remedies as rapidly as possible. TUBERCULOUS AFFECTIONS. These may occur as tuberculous ulcers of the skin, as lupus, or as an intermediate condition between the two, often described under the name of ' scrofuloderma.' TUBERCULOUS ULCERS OF THE SKIN. These ulcers usually occur in connection with tuberculous glands in front of the ear or as a secondary result of tuberculous disease of one of the facial bones, such as the malar or the orbital margin of the superior maxilla. In the latter cases, the skin becomes fixed to the bone when the ulcer heals, and the contraction may interfere with the movements of the lower eyelid, or may lead to ectropion. TREATMENT.—Whenever an abscess forms it should be opened, scraped, injected with iodoform and glycerine emulsion (see p. 118), and stitched up. When there is an ulcer situated over diseased bone, the former should be scraped and the latter removed. As soon as the surface thus left is granulating and healthy, it should be skin-grafted (see Vol. I. p. 52). It will be necessary to put the patient under the best hygienic