III TUBERCULOSIS synovial membrane on to the bone. When the deposit reaches the under sm"face of the articular cartilage, it perforates it and thus a communication is established between the joint cavity and the tuberculous deposit. This results in rapid infection of the whole surface of the synovial membrane and is generallj^ marked by the onset of acute symptoms in a case in which they had been previously only slight. These cases were formerly described as ' acute ulceration of cartilage.' On the other hand, when the deposit reaches the surface about the jioint of reflection of the synovial membrane on to the bone, the tuberculous material does not escape into the joint cavity—at any rate, at first—but leads to infection of the neighbouring synovial membrane and a gradual spread of the disease from this point over the rest of the joint; these cases resemble in many respects those of primary synovial disease. In the third case, in which the deposit opens beyond the articular surface, an abscess forms outside the joint, and the latter may not become affected. Primary Synovial disease. — When the tuberculous disease begins primarily in the synovial membrane it usually commences at one particular spot and from this gradually infects the remainder. Two different conditions are met with in these cases : in the one there is a localised deposit which gives rise to a mass of thickened synovial fringes hanging down into the joint and forming a pedunculated body ; in the other, the disease, spreading from the primary focus, may extend uniformly over the whole of the synovial membrane and lead to general thickening of it. While the disease is spreading over the synovial membrane it also extends gradually over the cartilages from the point of reflection of the synovial membrane, destroys them and penetrates into the cancellous spaces at the ends of the bone, leading to the condition known as tuber- culous caries. Abscesses frequently form in the substance of the synovial membrane and these burst outwards, inwards, or in both directions, in the latter case leaving sinuses leading down to carious bone. If recovery takes place after these changes have occurred, anchylosis with deformity may result. SYMPTOMS.—The symptoms of tuberculous joint disease differ according to the stage of the disease, and whether it is primarily osseous or synovial. In the earliest stage of the primary osseous affection the symptoms are not at all marked. At most the patient complains of a feehng of weight and aching about the end of the bone, which may be found to be somewhat enlarged. In the lower extremity there may also be a slight limp in walking, although there is no limitation of, or pain on, movement. Should such a group of symptoms occur in a patient previously the subject of tuberculous disease, or in one who has a strong tuberculous family history, tuberculous disease of the bone should be suspected. At a later stage, when the osseous deposit establishes a communication