4 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS liable to recur unless means be taken to prevent it by applying suit- able retentive apparatus. In some cases no special apparatus is required; a bandage which restrains the movements of the joint may be quite sufficient. PRESERVATION OF THE MOVEMENTS OF THE JOINT.—After a dislocation, adhesions are certain to form, not only in the joint itself but also in the peri-articular structures, if the limb be kept at rest too long, and the result will be that the surgeon is confronted with the difficult task of restoring movement in a joint that is very stiff: this task may be impossible, especially in elderly persons. In them there is always some amount of traumatic arthritis following these injuries, and this may lead to much impairment of function, especially in the shoulder. The movements of the joint must therefore be maintained from the first by means of massage and passive movements. In the majority of dislocations the tendency to recurrence of the displacement is not so great as to contra-indicate movement and manipulations from the beginning. We therefore advise that massage should be practised daily from the first, and that this should be combined with suitable passive movements until the functions of the joint have been restored completely. The exceptions to this general rule will be indicated later. TREATMENT OF DISLOCATIONS COMPLICATED BY OTHER INJURIES. Since the treatment in these cases must necessarily depend essentially upon the particular circumstances of the case, it is dealt with in detail in connection with dislocations of individual joints, and we need only refer here to two points common to all dislocations. Fracture complicating Dislocation.—Under such circumstances, much depends upon whether the fracture is close to the joint or at some distance from it. In the latter case the portion of bone intervening between the fracture and the dislocated joint may be long enough to serve as a lever by which to manipulate the dislocated end into position. When, however, the fracture is close to the joint, reduction of the dislocation by manipulative methods is often impossible, and the only satisfactory procedure is to operate without delay, replacing the dislocated end of the bone first and then fastening the fractured ends together (see Vol. II. Chap. XIV.). Injury to Vessels or Nerves.—Large vessels may be torn when dislocation takes place, and serious haemorrhage may occur into the limb, or a diffuse aneurysm may form. Similarly a nerve may be torn across, or there may be paralysis as a result of direct pressure on the nerve by the displaced end of the bone. These cases must be treated in accordance with the principles laid down for injuries of vessels and nerves (see Vol. II.).