48 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS these cases, the bones most commonly dislocated being the scaphoid or the semilunar. The dislocation is sometimes accompanied by fracture, especially in the case of the scaphoid bone. TREATMENT.—An attempt should be made to replace the dislocated bone by manipulations and pressure on the bone; an anaesthetic should be employed. If, however, a stereoscopic radiogram shows that the displaced bone has also become rotated, excision of that bone will be required (see Vol. II. p. 359). DISLOCATION OF THE METACARPAL BONES. Dislocation of the metacarpal from the carpal bones is of extreme rarity; when it does occur the metacarpal bones are usually displaced backwards. TREATMENT.—The dislocation should be reduced by traction and pressure under an angesthetic. After the bones have been brought into position, the hand should be placed upon a splint for a week and evaporating lotions employed. Massage and passive movements of the fingers and wrist should be begun from the first, as there is great tendency to stiffness after these accidents, especially in elderly subjects. DISLOCATION OF THE PHALANGES. The phalanges may be dislocated either from the metacarpal bones or from one another. DISLOCATION AT THE INTER-PHALANGEAL JOINTS. This injury results from falls or blows upon the oustretched finger. The displacement is generally lateral, although it may be backwards; it is not infrequently incomplete. TREATMENT.—Reduction is effected by exerting traction upon the tip .of the finger and bringing the phalanx into its proper line. After reduction, the digit should be put on a finger- splint (see Fig. 23) and evaporating lotions employed to reduce the swelling. Passive movement should be begun from the first and regularly practised, so as to prevent stiffness. Fig. 23. — Tin Finger- splint. The oval portion lies in the palm, while the finger is received into the trough. DISLOCATION AT THE METACARPO-PHALANGEAL JOINTS. This accident is rare except in the thumb and the little finger— in the former of which it is not at all uncommon. As there are special difficulties in connection with reduction of dislocations of the thumb we shaU describe this somewhat more fully. DISLOCATION OF THE THUMB.—Dislocation of the first