463 SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS TUBERCULOUS ULCERS. Tuberculous ulcers are occasionally met with upon the mucous membrane of the lips (generally the lower) and resemble in all respects those occurring on the tongue. They may occur as a primary disease unaccompanied by tuberculous mischief elsewhere, but they are more commonly secondary to advanced tuberculous disease, either of the lungs or the larynx. As a rule, they are excessively painful. TREATMENT.—The most satisfactory method of treating these cases is to excise the itlcer and bring the edges of the mucous membrane together with fine catgut. This can generally be done under local anaesthesia, a mixture of eucaine and adrenalin (see Vol. I. p. 484) being injected under the ulcer. Should the wound left be too large to suture, it may be touched with undiluted carbolic acid. A mouth-wash of sanitas (three drachms to the pint) or chlorate of potash (ten grains to the ounce) should be used frequently, and the primary tuberculous disease should be attended to ; injections of tuberculin may be of service. When the ulcer is secondary to tuberculous mischief in the lungs or laryn.x, and when a raw surface must be left after e.xcision, this is liable to become infected again, and, under these circumstances, it may be better to treat the ulcer by means of local applications. In some cases a twenty per cent, solution of lactic acid painted over the surface of the sore once a week is of great service ; it relieves the pain and promotes rapid healing. The value of this treatment is still further increased if the sore is previously scraped with a sharp spoon, which may be done after injection of a local anaesthetic. When the ulcer is very painful, relief will often be obtained by powdering the surface freely with orthoform. It is well to avoid the use of cocaine in case a habit should be established. The patient should avoid irritating foods, too hot or too cold substances, and particularly acid or alcoholic liquids. SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS. These may be met with in all stages of the disease, but the most common are either a primary sore or secondary mucous patches. PRIM.^RY SORES. It is, of course, of the greatest importance to diagnose these cases as soon as possible, as they are a source of great danger to other persons by infection from kissing, or from the use of the same cups, spoons, or other utensils. They have been mistaken for malignant growths and removed under that impression. TREATMENT.—As soon as the diagnosis is made, salvarsan should be given and this leads to rapid healing of the ulcer. Whether it should