AFFECTIONS OF THE LIPS 466 in its course, and glandular infection occurs earlier than when it begins on the cutaneous surface. TREATMENT.—The treatment is early and free excision. As a rule a triangular portion, with its apex downwards, should be removed from the entire thickness of the lower lip. When the disease is very super- ficial and has spread for some distance along the lip, it may be possible to remove only a portion of the surface of the lip, but imperfect closure of the mouth is apt to result if the incision has to be carried deeply, and saliva is constantly running out. When the growth is situated near one angle of the mouth, it is well to prolong the V-shaped incision down- wards and outwards in the direction of the submaxillary glands, so that the lymphatic vessels running from the lip to the glands may be included in the portion removed. The edges of the wound can usually be united without the necessity for any plastic operation. Care must be taken to see that the red line of the lip is brought into accurate apposition on the two sides of the incision. When a considerable portion of the lip has been removed the angle of the mouth may be pulled towards the middle line on suturing the wound, but in the course of time this deformity rights itself and becomes hardly noticeable. When the greater part of the lip is removed, a plastic operation must be performed (see Chap. XLI.). Removal of the growth.—The following is the method of excising a small cancer of the lip by a V-shaped incision : An assistant grasps the lip firmly close to each angle of the mouth and as far away as possible from the growth. When the growth is close to one angle of the mouth, he must pass his finger well under the cheek so as to compress the facial artery or, at any rate, the coronary artery near its origin. This controls the coronary arteries and fixes the lip. The surgeon now takes hold of the growth and makes his incisions from above downwards well wide of the tumour. The incisions are somewhat concave inwards so as to allow for the contraction of the scar afterwards, and they gradually meet just above the point of the chin. The bleeding is rapidly arrested, the coronary vessels being first picked up and twisted, and then the other bleeding points attended to. The wound should now be stitched up. The lirst stitch, which should be of silkworm-gut, unites the red line and is inserted deeply through the thickness of the lip, and the ends should be left long. A second silkworm- gut stitch should be inserted deeply at the centre of the cutaneous part of the incision and at some distance from the edges of the wound in order to relieve tension. The remainder of the skin incision is then brought together accurately by stitches of fine silkworm-gut or stout horse-hair. When these skin stitches have been inserted, the lip is everted by pulling upon the first stitch in the red line, and the edges of the mucous mem- brane are united by catgut stitches. These wounds practically always heal by first intention. When the two concave sides of the incision