NERVOUS AFFECTIONS 139 previous to the manipulations, and the muscles operated upon must be relaxed as fully as possible. Specially vigorous manipulations are directed to the joint affected, and passive movements of all the joints should be carried out. At first the rubbing should be done for about twenty minutes daily, but the length of the sitting should be increased until, at the end of a week or so, it occupies an hour and a half twice a day. At first it causes great exhaustion and some pain ; soon, however, it becomes grateful and soothing. The faradaic current may be used simultaneously with the rubbing and should be applied to the entire body, but chiefly to the muscles in the neighbourhood of the affected joint. The two electrodes, well wetted and held about four inches apart, are moved firmly over each muscle in turn, and a current strong enough to cause vigorous contraction is employed for about half an hour twice a day. The patient is placed upon a milk diet for two or three days. The milk is given at intervals of three hours, in quantities of three ounces, rapidly increasing up to half a pint at a time ; before the end of the first week the patient is taking as much as two or three quarts daily. After the first few days a steadily increasing amount of solid food is given in addition, until the patient is taking three large meals daily besides the milk. In favourable cases this stage may be reached in a fortnight and, as a rule, the patient will put on flesh rapidly. The massage and elec- tricity apparently cause so much tissue-change that there is no dyspepsia.i When this treatment is successful, tlie pain and insomnia rapidly dis- appear, and the masseuse is soon able to handle the affected joint without pain and carry out movements steadily increasing in range ; it is not uncommon for the patient to be able to use the joint fairly well within the first week. The improvement progresses rapidly until, in a good many cases, the cure is complete. Hypnotism.—Hypnotism may be of value in susceptible subjects. They can be made to receive suggestions that the joint has become well and can therefore be freely moved, and this may lead to complete and rapid disappearance of all the symptoms. Sudden mental shock may also lead to recovery, even when the affection has persisted for a long time, but it is a method of treatment which must necessarily be more the result of accident than of design. Local Treatment.—In the early stages, no local treatment of the joint besides massage should be employed ; splints and other forms of apparatus should be avoided. In the later stages, however, when the contracture of the muscles has led to true organic shortening, or when there are contractions in the capsule of the joint, surgical measures may become necessary. When the contracture does not disappear under ' Fat and Blood. By S. Weir Mitchell, M.D., Philadelphia. The Systematic Treatment of Nerve Prostration and Hysteria. By W. S. Playfair, M.D., F.R.CP., London.