SIMPLE TRAUMATIC DISLOCATIONS 3 the resistance of the muscles by steady traction. We strongly recommend the administration of an anfesthetic, if possible, in all cases of dislocation. Without an anaesthetic it is very difficult to overcome the contraction of the muscles if the patient be powerful, while excessive pain may be caused, and fresh and unnecessary laceration of the tissues may result. An anaesthetic should never be withheld unless there is some constitu- tional affection contra-indicating its use, or unless, from the situation of the dislocation, interference with breathing would be likely to result during its administration, or unless the dislocation is only partial and can be readil}^ reduced without it. (5) Entanglement of one of the aiiicular ends with some of the structures in the vicinity of the joint. The articular end may be gripped by the edges of the lacerated capsule through which it protrudes, or by some of the muscles, tendons or ligaments in the neighbourhood, or it may become firmly hitched against some bony prominence. In these cases appropriate manipulations will be necessary to get the articular surfaces into position. The manipulations are designed to disengage the articular end from any structure with which it may have become involved, and will therefore vary according to the joint affected. They will be described in connection with individual dislo- cations ; their chief object is to bring the head of the bone opposite the rent in the capsule through which it has escaped, and then to cause it to pass back through that rent into position. (c) The interposition of neighbouring structures—especially tendons— between the articular surfaces. The best example of this occurs in dis- locations of the ankle. In joints, such as the temporo-maxillary, which possess an inter-articular fibro-cartilage, this structure may be displaced and interfere with reduction. When the ends of the bones have been brought into position, the surgeon must make sure that the movements of the joint are perfectly free in all directions. Should there be an obstacle, such as a tendon or ligament caiight between the ends of the bones, and should manipula- tions directed to getting rid of the interposed structure fail, there must be no hesitation in opening the joint and removing the obstruction. The strictest antiseptic precautions are necessary, but a skilled surgeon need have no hesitation in performing it. After clearing out all blood- clot and removing the obstacle to reduction, the surgeon can also stitch up the rent in the capsule—a point of considerable importance in some joints, such as the shoulder—as a preventive against recurrence of the displacement. PREVENTION OP RECURPENCE OP THE DIS- LOCATION.—Recurrence of the dislocation is apt to take place when ligaments have been widely torn, or when portions of bone have been broken off. For example, dislocation backwards of the elbow-joint when accompanied by fracture of the coronoid process, is