41 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW be necessary to have recourse to amputation. In determining this question, the surgeon will be guided by the same considerations as have already been discussed in connection with fractures (see Vol. II. p. 287). (d) Of Unreduced Dislocation.—It may be possible to effect reduc- tion in the case of the elbow-joint as long as six weeks after the injury without damaging important structures. The patient is fully anaesthetised, and as many adhesions as possible are broken down before reduction is commenced. An attempt must then be made by forcible traction in the semi-flexed position to bring down the forearm sufficiently, and then the elbow is flexed and the bones of the forearm brought forward over the lower end of the humerus. The X-ray screen is most useful here. Operative procedures.—If reduction cannot be effected, some operative procedure will be required. It is seldom justifiable to leave the patient with an unreduced dislocation, because a more useful joint can be obtained by excision than from attempts by means of massage and movements to form a fresh joint with the bones in the wrong position. The difficult point to decide is, whether an attempt should be made to replace the bones in position by operation, or whether the surgeon should proceed at once to excise the joint. In a number of cases the bones have been replaced in position, and when there is no marked alteration in the joint surfaces—as may be the case if only a short time has elapsed since the injury—the result may be very satisfactory. In operating with the view of reducing the dislocation, the joint is exposed by two vertical incisions, each about four inches long, one over the external, and the other over, the internal condyle. Care must be taken not to damage the ulnar nerve at the upper end of the inner incision, whilst in the outer one, the posterior interosseous nerve must be avoided below. The soft parts in front and behind are detached with a rugine, until the joint has been cleared and the surgeon can feel what structures are tense ; these should be divided if they do not contain important structures and the bones may then be brought into position. The structures requiring division are the remains of the anterior part of the capsule and the external lateral ligament and the adhesions which have formed in their neighbourhood ; the bones will come into position when these structures have been divided, unless the triceps is unusually contracted. When re-position has been affected, the wounds are stitched up, the usual dressings applied, and the limb placed on an internal rectangular splint with the forearm supinated; pronation and supination are carried out from the first, and flexion and extension are added at the end of a week. These movements cause considerable pain at first, and it may be advisable to move the arm imder an anaesthetic once or twice a week, so as to insure that it moves throughout its full range. If the patient