INTRA-CRANIAL SUPPURATION FOLLOWING INJURY 383 fluid between it and the bone ; this goes on to suppuration and the formation of an extra-dural abscess. When there is no external wound, or when tlie inflammation occurs at a little distance from the wound, a swelling, known as ' Pott's puffy tumour,' may develop over the seat of the suppuration. This is a limited oedematous condition of the scalp, associated with symptoms of menin- gitis and subsequently of compression. The puffy tumour is due to the effusion of fluid beneath the pericranium accompanied by oedema of the tissues superficial to it. It almost always indicates the formation of an abscess between the bone and the dura mater, and usually also necrosis of the inner table, or, it may be, of the whole thickness of the skull. When there is a compound fracture, and consequently an open wound, this pufl'y tumour will not necessarily occur, but the wound becomes unhealthy, the granulations pale and flabby, the secretion diminished and foul, and the pericranium detached from the sm-face of the skull in the vicinity of the wound. A considerable amount of bare bone is frequently exposed, and the parts around are oedematous. Associated with the local condition there is marked pyrexia, head- ache, and very rapid pulse ; there may be rigors, and, when the pus cannot escape externally, gradually increasing drowsiness sets in, often accompanied by delirium or epileptiform convulsions, and ending in more or less complete coma as the collection of pus beneath the skull increases in size. In compound fracture these symptoms usually commence two or three days after the injury; sometimes not until a later period. They are coincident with the breaking down of the blood-clot beneath the fracture and the commencement of suppuration. TREATMENT.—The treatment consists in immediate and thorough opening up of the inflamed area. When there is no external wound, a flap should be turned down so as to expose the centre of the puffy tumour, and it is well to make this flap large, as it may be necessary to remove a considerable amount of bone. When, however, a wound already exists, and especially when a fracture is present, the wound must be enlarged in any direction that seems most desirable. The periosteum is usually detached from the skull, and a large circle of bone should be removed so as to allow the pus to escape freely. The cut surface of the bone must then be examined for the presence of suppurative osteo- myelitis, and if this is found, the skull should be freely dealt with in the manner described on p. 358. Unless the collection of pus is large and the diploe healthy, it is well to make the opening in the bone almost co-extensive with the collection of pus beneath, so as to admit of proper drainage. By doing this time is also saved, for it is not uncommon for the bone over the area of suppuration to undergo more or less complete necrosis. The dura mater is usually thickened and covered with lymph, or even actually sloughing.