360 AFFECTIONS OF THE SKULL between the dura mater and the bone. If no suppuration is found, the dura mater should not be stripped away from the bone, but the wound should be closed, after providing efficient drainage. When, however, pus is found beneath the bone, or when the dura mater is affected, the whole of the skull superficial to the affected area should be cut away with Hoffman's forceps. In bad cases the wound should be packed with gauze for two or three days. If the disease shows signs of recovery the gauze is removed, drainage tubes are introduced, and the flaps sutured. TUBERCULOSIS. Tuberculous disease of the skuU is not common except in connection with the mastoid and petrous portions of the temporal bone. In the vault it is comparatively rare, and most often affects the frontal and parietal bones. In the frontal bone it usually occurs in the neighbourhood of the orbital margin and the external angular process. The disease chiefly affects young adults, and, as a rule, is secondary to tuberculous disease elsewhere. Indeed, tuberculosis of the flat bones of the skull usually only occurs in the course of similar disease in other bones. It may begin in several parts of the skuU at the same time, but it usually commences at one spot, and is frequently preceded by an injury. When the condition is one of multiple tuberculosis of the skull, the prognosis is very bad, and in anv case the disease is serious. In the flat bones the disease most frequently commences in the diploe, either as a soft deposit or as a sequestrum. The sequestra are smaU, and usually involve the whole thickness of the skull, the inner table being more extensively affected than the outer. The dura mater is often separated from the bone over a considerable area by a mass of tuberculous material undergoing caseation. There is also a tendency to thickening of the dura mater—the condition known as tuberculous pachymeningitis. The gravity of the disease depends partly on the danger of infection of the membranes and consequent tuberculous meningitis, and partly on various septic risks, such as pyemia, sinus thrombosis, acute osteo-myelitis, acute meningitis or cerebral abscess. The disease usually commences with a severe duU, aching pain in the head, and tenderness on pressure over the affected part. The pain is presently followed by a soft swelling which very soon develops into a chronic abscess. After the abscess bursts or is opened, the bone is felt to be bare and soft, and in most cases small necrosed fragments may be found. Sometimes, however, the disease extends more towards the deeper surface of the bone, and then symptoms of cerebral compression may arise after the pain has lasted for some time, owing to the formation of pus between the dura mater and the skull. TREATMENT.—As the condition is serious, it is important to take energetic operative measures as soon as the diagnosis has been made, for the chances of recovery without operation are small.