TUBERCULOUS DISEASE 309 rod, the ring being made to open in front, and arranged so as to act as a rest for the chin and occiput, counter-pressure being arranged at the upper part of the dorsal region (see Fig. 130). THE TREATMENT OF COMPLICATIONS. The two chief comphcations of spinal disease are paralysis and abscess. Paralysis.—When paralysis is present or is threatened, we are strongly of opinion that double extension should be rigorously employed in the first intance ; in a large number of cases in which we have used this method it has acted like a charm, the paralysis being very rapidly recovered from without any necessity for operative interference. In children improvement may be noticed within three days from the com- mencement of the extension, and may progress steadily to complete recovery. Mere recumbency in bed, however rigicUy the spine may be fixed, is not sufficient. The double extension acts by tiring out the muscles and preventing their tonic contraction and, as a result, the inflammation of the vertebrte and the secondary inflammation of the membranes is arrested and absorption of the inflammatory products very quickly occurs. The marked benefit of double extension as com- pared with simple rest in bed shows what an important part this tonic contraction of the muscles plays in keeping up the disease. Even in old-standing cases of paralysis, we think that a fair trial should be given to double extension for several weeks before proceeding to operative measures. In our experience laminectomy will only be required in a very small percentage of cases. Laminectomy.—Certain cases remain, however, in which laminectomy is the only treatment which promises relief ; such are the presence of abscesses or masses of caseous material in the spinal canal, or constriction of the cord from thickening of the dura mater around it, i.e. pachy- meningitis. The operation of laminectomy has already been described (see Vol. II. p. 131). On opening the spinal canal one or other of the conditions already mentioned should be looked for, more especially the presence of pus in front of the cord or thickening of the dura mater. Pus must be evacuated if present ; spicules of bone should be removed, and any soft granulation tissue or cheesy material in front of the cord scraped away. If pachymeningitis is present, the dura mater should be slit down in the middle line posteriorly so as to relieve the pressure on the spinal cord.i In these cases the laminae and spinous processes must be removed altogether ; if replaced, they are apt to become affected with tuberculous disease. ' If the dura mater is left open, great care must be taken for the first few days to prevent any excessive escape of the cerebro-sj^inal fluid. The patient should lie with the head low and the foot of the bed raised on blocks.