AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE 5o8 A bony bridge to the nose is then manufactured in the following manner: An incision, starting about half an inch above the root of the nose and about an eighth of an inch to one side of the middle line, is carried vertically upwards to the margin of the hair, and made to divide the tissues down to the bone. A similar incision is carried up parallel to the first, an eighth of an inch on the other side of the median line, and the upper ends of these incisions are connected by a transverse cut (see Fig- 235, A). In this way a flap is marked out a quarter of an inch broad with its base at the root of the nose. A chisel, about as wide as the flap, is introduced along each lateral incision and a portion of the external AC D Fig. 235.—Restoration of the Bridge of the Nose. The details of the operation are fully described in the text. A shows the lines of incision for the various flaps. In B the flaps have been reflected and the tip of the nose freed and brought into position. In C the reflected flap from the forehead is sutured in position, while in D the lateral flaps have been brought together over the reflected forehead flap. The small triangular gap left at the root of the nose is afterwards filled by the divided pedicle of the forehead flap, which is trimmed into shape and turned up again. table is chiselled through ; the chisel is then introduced into the upper transverse incision, and is held at a very acute angle with the skull so that the superficial portion of the external table of the frontal bone can be chipped off along with the flap (see Fig. 235, B). At the lower end of the flap, the bone is broken across and the flap turned down as a long, narrow strip which has on its upper surface a thin layer of the frontal bone and, on its under surface, skin from the frontal region. This strip should be long enough to enable its free end when turned down to reach the cartilaginous portion of the nose when the latter is pushed into its proper position. It may be necessary to prolong the lateral incisions a little downwards to enable this to be done without tension, but a sufficiently broad pedicle must be left for the proper nutrition of