TUBERCULOSIS 115 as it may upset the digestion. It is usually best to begin with a teaspoonful twice a day, and to increase the dose gradually until a tablespoonful is being taken thrice daily ; it is well to leave it off in warm weather. Iron is of value when the patient is anaemic, whilst giiaiacol is also recommended in two-minim doses in capsules, three times a day. The latter drug may, if preferred, be administered by subcutaneous injection. Tuberculin is in general use for these joint diseases as for tuberculosis elsewhere. A full account of the method of administration will be found in Vol. I. p. 522. Although these general points are of the greatest importance, careful local treatment is always required. In the early stages of the disease, indeed, the local treatment is of greater importance than the general. LOCAL TREATMENT.—It will save repetition if we refer to the various methods of local treatment in the first instance, and after- wards consider the applicability of each method to the various types of disease already enumerated. Palliative Measures.—Several methods of treatment are em- ployed which do not act directly by destroying the tubercle bacilli, but indirectly by making the tissues better able to resist their attack. In a tuberculous joint we have to do not only with tubercle bacilli and the tuberculous tissue produced by their presence, but also with chronic inflammation of the tissues around, which is set up by the presence of the tuberculous tissue, and which in its turn paves the way for extension of the disease. It is by the agency of this cnronic inflammation in the tissues that the tubercle bacillus overcomes their resistance and is enabled to prepare for itself a suitable soil for growth. The bacillus is often unable to grow at all, or grows only with difficulty in perfectly healthy tissues, but if the latter be weakened by a previous attack of inflammation or by injury (which produces a certain amount of inflam- mation) the bacillus is able to grow with greater freedom. Hence when it is not advisable to take radical measures to root out the tubercle bacilli and the tuberculous tissue, it is important to try to subdue the chronic inflammation of the tissues, so as to place the latter in a better position to resist the advance of the bacillus. Indeed, the main feature of what may be termed the ' expectant ' treatment of tuberculous joint disease, as opposed to the radical methods, is the use of measures directed against chronic inflammation. We have already (see Vol. I. Chap. I.) discussed fully the procedures indicated in the treatment of chronic inflammation ; here we need only consider their apphcabihty to the affection under discussion. Rest.—Quite apart from the presence of the tubercle bacillus, the chronic inflammation may be kept up l)y movement, by the presence of septic organisms, or by pressiue of the diseased surfaces against one I 2