DISEASES OF THE WRIST AND HAND 253 passively and actively. Should there be any difficulty in this, faradisation to the muscles acting upon the fingers may be employed daily. CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. There is a form of chronic inflammation of the wrist in young people which leads to marked deformity and which is not generally recognised. No marked destructive changes take place in the joint, and the affection is often overlooked entirely until the onset of a subluxation of the carpus which is pulled forwards on the radio-ulnar arch. If this condition lasts for any length of time, the articular surfaces become altered so that the radio-ulnar surface becomes oblique and the carpus cannot be replaced in its normal position. This affection is frequently associated with certain trades, and is often met with in washerwomen and in those employed in trades in which the wrist is carried beyond its normal range of movement. In other cases the affection occurs chiefly in the radio-ulnar joint, the ligaments becoming relaxed and the styloid process of the ulna projecting backwards, while the carpus is displaced forwards on the ulnar side. This is particularly the case in boxers, cricketers, and tennis players and the result of the condition is pain about the ulnar side of the wrist, wliich is relieved for a time by rest and is finally associated with a marked prominence of the ulnar styloid process. If the causes producing the affection continue, there may be actual arrest of growth in the lower end of the ulna or permanent disability of the joint. TREATMENT.—The causes producing the disease should be removed in the early stages and an attempt made to prevent further strain on the weak parts by fixation of the joint. The patient will often state that the pain is relieved by applying a firm bandage around the wrist, and many sufferers from this condition find great relief from wearing a leather or elastic wristlet so as to control the movements. Change of occupation, together with the use of a wristlet, is all that is necessary in most cases. TUBERCULOUS DISEASE. The wrist, like the shoulder, is chiefly affected by tuberculous disease in adult life. Disease of this joint is not very common and is frequently accompanied by phthisis. The disease may begin either primarily in the synovial membrane or as a deposit in one of the bones ; probably it is more often primary in the synovial membrane. Wlien it commences in the bones, the deposit is generally in the lower end of the radius or in the base of one of the meta- carpal bones, usually the second. It is very seldom that these deposits are found in the carpal bones. The disease soon leads to considerable swelling of the joint, which is especially noticeable over the back of the hand, and from quite an