AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD 398 from the bone ; ^ thence it goes through the skin, and emerges about half an inch behind the incision at about the level of its upper limit. The other end of the suture is then threaded on a needle and brought out at a point about a quarter of an inch from the first end of the suture. By tying these two ends together, the upper segment of the meatus wiU be pulled upwards and backwards. This manoeuvre is repeated with the lower segment, so that at the end of the operation the deeper part of the meatus is widely open over the cavity in the temporal bone which has been made by the operation. Another method, which is in many ways preferable, is to split the meatus and then to carry a curved incision from the outer end of this cut around the periphery of the concha, cutting somewhat obliquely so as to avoid button-holing the skin over the back of the pinna ; in this way a semicircular flap is made, which can be turned up into the roof of the antrum and held in position by packing (see Fig. 167, B). If this flap is too thick, owing to inflammatory swelling, it may be pared down with scissors. The incision through the skin is closed with a few interrupted silk- worm-gut sutures, and the cavity of the antrum is packed from the external meatus with narrow strips of cj'anide gauze impregnated with iodoform emulsion. Exposure of the Lateral Sinus.—In many cases suppuration extends backwards, and when the antrum is opened, a channel may be found containing pus and communicating with the sigmoid groove. In that case the removal of bone must be continued directly backwards from the antral cavity to the sigmoid groove; the latter lies much nearer the surface than the antrum, and therefore the bone must be removed verj^ cautiously until the dura mater is exposed ; a sharp gouge is the most suitable instrument. The sinus must be exposed sufficiently freely to allow both its condition and that of the groove in which it lies to be accurately ascertained ; if pus is present in the latter, the groove must be cut away backwards and downwards until the infected area has been exposed. In most of these cases the vein will be throm- bosed ; should it be patent, however—as is shown by free bleeding when it is punctured with a needle—the operation need not proceed farther. The wound is packed with iodoformed gauze and left open, and the dressing should be changed every twelve hours. Unless some further intra-cranial complication exists, the patient's condition will improve within forty-eight hours. When puncturing the sinus to ascertain whether there is thrombosis, great care must be taken not to carry infective material in with the needle ; the wall of the sinus should be disinfected with i in 500 sublimate solution or i in 20 carbolic lotion at the point at which the puncture is to be made. ' We are here speaking of the procedure when the second incision (see p. 394)— that close to the back of the ear—is employed. Where a large flap has been turned aside a free incision must be made in it over the opening into the antral cavity.