251 DISEASES OF THE ELBOW-JOINT employed. This is the critical period in the case, as about this time stiffness tends to increase very rapidly, and therefore active movements should be encouraged. A good apparatus designed to enable the patient to practise passive movement for himself may be made by carrying a rope, to one end of which a weight is attached, round an overhead pulley. The patient grasps the free end of the rope with the sound hand, and seizes the other end a little above the weight with the hand on the affected side. All that is necessary is to pull upon the rope with the sound hand ; this flexes the forearm, and, when the pull is relaxed, the weight extends the limb (see Fig. 102) ; this should be done for from half an hour to an hour at a time twice or three times daily. There is seldom any difficulty in preserving pronation and supination. In carrying out the after-treatment, two conditions must be carefully guarded against : on the one hand, the limb must not be allowed to get stiff, on the other, a flail-joint nuist be avoided. It is not until about a month has elapsed after the operation that the surgeon is able to judge what is likely to happen. When the case is going on well there will be some slight difficulty in obtaining complete tfexion and extension, although movement should be fairly good ; if, on the other hand, the joint be quite loose and complete extension can be got without difficulty, a flail-joint is to be feared, and it is then best to put the arm up in plaster of Paris or water-glass for three or four weeks without attempting any further passive movement. It will then be seen whether the joint is still loose or whether sufficient contraction has occurred to require passive movement. When, after this time, it is found that the joint is too lax, it is well to apply an apparatus consisting of two pieces, one of which grasps the upper arm and the other the forearm, the two being connected by a metal band over each side of the elbow jointed to permit of flexion and extension. As the splint is apt to slip down over the upper arm, it should be held up by straps over the shoulders. This apparatus prevents lateral mobility, and, if worn for some months, it is quite possible that a joint which was at first very lax may finally become satisfactory.