412 AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD TUBERCULOUS MENINGITIS. In this condition there is a deposit of tubercles in the pia mater, especially about the vessels at the base of the brain. The result is inflammation and effusion, acute distension of the ventricles with fluid, and increased intra-cranial pressure. For the condition of the cerebro-spinal fluid, the reader should consult the section by Dr. Emery, (see p. 442). TREATMENT.—Attempts have been made to reheve the intra- cranial pressure by draining the ventricles, or by inserting a drain through the condyloid foramen, but, although the immediate symptoms are often relieved by the drainage of the cerebro-spinal fluid, no permanent good can be expected from this procedure. One or two cases have certainly recovered after drainage, but it is doubtful whether the condition in them was tuberculous or merely a simple meningitis. Repeated lumbar puncture is probably quite as efficacious as direct drainage of the cranial cavity, and is a much less severe procedure. The following is the best method of draining the posterior part of the cranial cavity (see Fig. 172). The head is shaved, purified in the usual manner (see p. 328), and placed on a suitable head-rest (see Fig. 155). A semilunar incision with its convexity upwards is made over the side selected for drainage. The incision should begin at the middle line well below the external occipital protuberance—which is often very slightly marked in young children—and reach as high as the superior curved line. The flap thus marked out is retracted, the inner portion of the complexus either cut through or detached from the occipital bone, and the inferior curved hue exposed. The rectus capitis posticus major muscle is stripped from its attachment by a rugine, and the skull is then opened by a trephine or a gouge, just below the inferior curved line and to one side of the middle line so as to avoid the sinus. This exposes the dura mater which generally bulges into the opening and does not pulsate. The dura mater is opened at the lowest possible point by a mere nick of the knife, and then a fine blunt spatula such as the dura mater separator (see Fig. 171) is passed beneath the lower edge of the cerebellum and the latter lifted gently up. The result generally is a free gush of fluid, which continues to flow and to pulsate in the opening. The greatest gentleness must be observed in lifting up the cerebellum, and the spatula must not be thrust in too deeply lest the important structures in the floor of the fourth ventricle be damaged. Drainage is effected by passing an india-rubber tube (No. 6) through the opening in the dura and beneath the cerebellum, and a hole is made for it in the centre of the scalp flap, which is then sewn up with a continuous suture and the usual dressings applied. The drainage of the cerebro-spinal fluid for the first two or three days