122 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS radical operations. In adults, and especially in old people in whom there is much suppuration about the joint, or in whom there are numerous septic sinuses present, amputation should be preferred. In the young, amputation may be better than excision in some joints, such as the knee when the disease is extensive and particularly when the bone is widely affected. When bad recurrence takes place after excision or arthrectomy amputation is generally necessary. Beyond this, no general rules can be laid down ; the decision must be made in each case according to the local condition and the general state of the patient. Arthrectomy.—By arthrectomy is understood an operation in which the whole of the tuberculous tissue is removed with as little inter- ference as possible with the surrounding healthy structures. In some cases this may merely mean removal of the osseous deposit; for example, where the deposit has not yet made its way into the joint and infected the synovial membrane. In other cases again it involves removal of the entire synovial membrane along with portions of the cartilage and even of the bone. As a rule, a complete arthrectomy is a very extensive operation and requires much patience and great care for its satisfactory performance. The whole of the diseased struc- tures must be carefully removed by dissection. Scraping is inadmissible except over small areas of cartilage or bone, and, if employed at all, must be done with the greatest thoroughness. The exact details of how best to effect these objects are given in connection with the individual joints. Excision.—In excision the synovial membrane must be removed with as much care and completeness as in arthrectomy, but, in addition, definite portions of the articular ends of the bones are removed, and, as a result, the operation is shortened and the risk of leaving disease behind is diminished. The operation is described in detail in connection with the individual joints. The choice between arthrectomy and excision.—The first point of impor- tance is the relative danger of the two operations. The risk from shock and loss of blood, which is by no means shght, is nearly equal in the two cases. The possibility of dissemination of the disease throughout the body is possibly greater in arthrectomy than in excision ; it is certainly greater if scraping is employed in place of clean cutting. There is not, however, a sufficient preponderance of danger in one operation over the other in this respect to influence our choice. As regards the chance of eradicating the disease it must be admitted that recurrence is less likely to occur after a properly performed excision than after an arthrectomy. In the latter it is always difficult to be sure that the disease is entirely removed from the margins of the cartilages, as small fragments of synovial membrane containing tuberculous tissue may be overlooked in tliis situation, and also in the recesses of the joint, such as the inter-condyloid notch in the knee or the olecranon fossa and the neighbourhood of the orbicular ligament in the elbow. In an excision