AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 30 TREATMENT OF UNREDUCED DISLOCATIONS. An unreduced dislocation of the shoulder may be due to the injury not having been recognised at the time, to the patient not having sought advice, to the surgeon having been under the impression that he has reduced the dislocation while in reality he has failed to do so, or to the dislocation having recurred after reduction. In any case the condition is serious, because the head of the bone soon contracts adhesions to the surrounding structures in its new position. In sub-glenoid and sub- coracoid dislocations especially, adhesions are extremely likely to form between the head of the bone and the vessels and nerves. The chief troubles in attempting to reduce a long-standing dislocation of this kind without operation are three in number. The first is the shortening of the muscles and tendons attached to the tuberosities ; the second is the adhesion of important structures—such as the vessels and nerves—to the head of the bone ; and the third is the difficulty of replac- ing the head in position after these obstacles have been overcome, owing to the distortion of the capsule and the filling up of the glenoid cavity. All these changes occur very rapidly. It is difficult to lay down an exact rule as to the length of time after a dislocation of the shoulder has occurred within which it is safe to attempt reduction. Reduction has been successfully accomplished as long as two months or more after the injury. On the other hand, rupture of the axillary artery has resulted from attempts to reduce a dislocation of four weeks' standing. We should say that it is not advisable to attempt reduction of a sub-coracoid or sub-glenoid dislocation after six weeks have elapsed from the time of the injury, and that it is practically unjustifiable to attempt it after nine weeks. Within the periods mentioned, attempts at reduction must be carried out with extreme care, on the following lines. The patient is fully aneesthetised and then the limb is moved freely in all directions, so as to break down adhesions. This is done very cautiously at first, the limb being gradually made to move through a wider range. Then an attempt should be made to get the head of the bone back into position by Kocher's method (see p. 14). This may not succeed, but it does good by loosening various adherent structures that oppose reduction ; if it fails it should be followed up by traction at idght angles to the trunk (see p. 17). Should this fail, an attempt may be made with the heel in the axilla (see p. 18). If, after a fair trial of these methods, the head of the bone wiU not go into place, the question arises whether the patient should be left alone or whether anything further should be done. In elderly subjects the surgeon may be justified in leaving matters alone if the arm has regained so much usefulness that the patient does not suffer serious inconvenience ; this is most likely to occur in sub-spinous dislocations.