AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 8o In every instance the treatment for a sprain should commence with full movement of the joint in all directions, so as to make sure that no portion of torn capsule or synovial membrane is left between the articular surfaces. Should this be the case, suitable movements of the joint will probably cause them to become disengaged. I. Slight sprains.—After having moved the joint and ascertained that the movements are free, the surgeon should strap the part firmly with rubber strapping, and for the first twelve hours it is well to apply an icebag so as to diminish any bleeding or effusion which may take place. On the following day the patient may be allowed to move the joint, and walk about. If the strapping is put on properly, the movements of the muscles and joint have practically the same result as external massage: they promote the lymph flow and lead to rapid absorption of the effusion. Further, the pressure diminishes the effusion, and the movement prevents the formation of adhesions. The strapping should be kept on for about a week, being renewed if necessary, and as a rule, no further treatment will be required, or at most a little external massage, for about another week. The strapping must not be limited to the joint, however, but should extend well above and below it. For example, in the case of a sprain of the ankle-joint, the strap- ping must be applied from the toes nearly to the knee ; it must not be limited to the ankle-joint (see Fig. 42). When, however, the sprain affects a joint, such as the hip, in which this treatment is not applicable, external massage, at first gentle, but soon becoming more vigorous should be employed, combined with active and passive movements. Fig. 42.—Method of 2. Severe spruins.—When actual rupture of liga- Strapping THE Limb FOR . iti A Sprain of the Ankle, meuts lias taken place, the patient may not be able to bear passive movements, or to use the joint in the early stage, and the treatment consists in massage and elastic pressure. At first the massage should be used once, and subsequently twice a day; in the early stage it should be quite gentle. At the same time it should be combined with such passive movements as the patient can bear, care being taken that the movements employed are not such as would stretch the sprained ligaments and prevent their union. After the massage the joint should be wrapped up in a mass of wool and a firm elastic bandage applied outside it; this should not only surround the joint itself, but should also extend for some distance above and below it. After about ten days, when the joint has become less tender, it may be strapped, and active movements permitted, as in the case of slight sprains. When massage is necessary, however (and