AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 226 The presence of sinuses does not necessarily contra-indicate arthrec- tomy, as they may be scraped out and sponged witli undiluted carbolic acid before proceeding to the operation, and may then be included in the incisions and dissected out entire. The steps of the operation are exactly similar to those already described, but it is well, before sewing up the wound, to sponge it out freely with undiluted carbolic acid and insert a drainage tube. The best position for drainage is on the inner side of the tendo Achillis, and the opening may be made by thrusting a pair of forceps through from the wound, making them project beneath the skin just at the inner border of the tendo Achillis and cutting down upon them in that situation ; the forceps are then pushed through, the blades expanded, and a drainage tube of suitable size seized and pulled back into the joint. If there is no suppuration the drainage tube may be left out after five or six days. While arthrectomy is the ordi- nary operation in these cases, amputation may be advisable in adults when abscesses or sinuses are present or the disease is ex- tensive. When amputation is called for in disease of the ankle-joint, the choice of the operation requires consideration. At one time Syme's amputation was the one most usually employed ; indeed Syme introduced it for these cases. It is, however, extremely difficult to remove all the diseased synovial membrane in this operation, and takes place in the stump, often We are therefore of opinion that Fig. 90.- -BOOT FOR USE AFTER ArTHRECIOM Y OF THE Ankle-joint. hence recurrence very commonly necessitating a further amputation. Syme's amputation is only advisable in cases in which the disease is not extensive, and that in bad cases it is best to amputate three or four inches above the ankle-joint (see Vol. II. p. 542). 4. Recovery with deformity.—The deformity generally takes the form of pointed toes, and the treatment will depend upon whether or not there is bony anchylosis ; if bony anchylosis is present, the proper treatment is excision of the astragalus, whereby the position of the foot is at once rectified and a movable joint is obtained. This may be a difficult matter, and the astragalus may have to be chiselled out and removed piecemeal. When this has been done, a flap of fascia should be