AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 26 dislocation cannot be reduced, passive movements should be commenced at once without attempting to immobilise the fracture, so as to obtain a false joint between the fractured surfaces, and thus maintain the use- fulness of the arm, but this is not good practice. A third course is to attempt, with the aid of a general anaesthetic and the X-ray screen, both to reduce the dislocation and set the fracture, but even if this were suc- cessful, the after-treatment would offer almost insuperable difficulties. In order to avoid stiffness in the joint, passive movements would have to be resorted to early and used freely, and it would be impossible to keep the fracture immobilised while this was being done. In our opinion immediate opera- tion should be advised unless there is something in the patient's condi- tion to contra-indicate operative inter- ference. An operation of this sort involves both a compound fractiue and a wound into a joint, and should not be attempted unless the surgeon is absolutely confident of his power to prevent sepsis. The method aims at attaining perfectly free access to the joint, ascertaining and removing any cause of obstruction, replacing the head of the bone in position, sewing up the rent in the capsule, and subsequently fixing the fractured surfaces in position. The best method of exposing the joint is through an incision com- mencing just external to the tip of the coracoid process, and running downwards and slightly outwards for four or five inches along the anterior border of the deltoid (see Fig. 15). The margin of the muscle is pulled outwards, the fascia beneath it is divided, and the deeper parts exposed. Should more room be necessary, it may be obtained by curving the incision outwards below so as to divide a portion of the insertion of the deltoid into the humerus ; the muscle is then turned outwards as a sort of flap, and it is easy to stitch the detached portion into position again at the end of the operation. After the wound has been well retracted, the structures about the shoulder-joint are easily identified, the rent in the capsule is visible, and the situation of the fracture is obvious. Traction should be exerted upon the arm downwards and slightly outwards, so as to get the lower fragment of the humerus out of the way, and then it is generally easy to grasp the head -Dislocation of the Shoulder WITH Fracture of the Surgical Fig. 15 combined Neck. The continuous line denotes ttie most suitable incision for operating upon this con- dition.