AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE 502 and is sutured in front to the edge of the deep flap forming the new cheek and angle of the mouth; it is also stitched to the deep flap along a line corresponding to the upper margin of the defect, and finally to the posterior margin of the opening in the cheek. A small drainage tube should be put between the flaps at the lower part, otherwise suppuration may occur and prevent their adhesion. If these flaps unite well, the pedicle of the deeper one may be cut through in about a fortnight, opposite the upper margin of the gap, which is now pared; the edge of the flaps are then stitched to this pared edge. The remainder of the forehead flap is turned up and stitched to the sides of the defect on the forehead, the eyebrow being readily replaced after tearing through the new granulation tissue. The raw surface remaining on the forehead is then skin-grafted (see Fig. 230, D). If sufficient skin has been obtained, and there is not too much tension, the result should be good, especially if the prolongation of the deep flap over the inner surface of the horizontal ramus of the jaw has united well. A certain amount of contraction takes place later, but this usually only limits movement to a slight extent. 4. Extensive and irremedial closure of the jaws.—This condition is due to destruction of mucous membrane, and consequently cicatricial union between the alveoli; it is usually also associated with infiltration of the masseter and internal pterygoid muscles with inflammatory material which practically converts them into dense fibrous bands. Under these circumstances, it is useless to attempt to get movement at the temporo-maxillary articulation, and the only plan is to divide the jaw in front of the contraction and make a false joint there, the aperture in the cheek being closed by turning in flaps. The typical mode of procediure is Esmarch's (see Fig. 231), and consists in the removal of a wedge of bone from the horizontal ramus of the jaw, with its base