DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW 39 bend of the affected elbow (see Fig. 20). The end of the humerus rests against the surgeon's patella ; the forearm is then grasped firmly with one hand, and the upper arm steadied with the other, whilst steady and prolonged traction is made in the semi-flexed position of the arm until the muscles are tired out. The joint is then rapidly flexed aroimd the knee, when the ends of the bones slip into place. The preliminary extension is designed to disengage the edge of the coronoid process from the lower end of the humerus, and the flexion around the knee causes this process to slip forward over the lower end of the humerus, which is steadied against the surgeon's patella. It is always easy to tell when reduction has been accomplished, as the bones spring into position with a sharp snap, and the movements of the joint are at once restored. After-treatment.—There is no danger of recurrence of the dislocation unless the coronoid process is broken off. Should recurrence take place soon after reduction, it is strong presumptive evidence that the coronoid process has been fractured. When the coronoid process is intact the after-treatment consists in employing an elbow-sling and applying evaporating lotions (see Vol. I. p. 9) to diminish the synovial efl'usion. Massage may be commenced on the day following the injury, and in four days passive movements should be practised. The patient may also be encouraged to move the elbow for himself inside the sling, which may be left off after a fortnight, when the functions of the joint should be perfectly restored. (b) Of Complications.—i. Fracture of the Coronoid process.—In these cases there is a constant tendency for the displacement to recur, and therefore it is necessary to fix the elbow. The best way of preventing recurrence of the displacement is to put the elbow up in the fully flexed position as for fracture of the lower end of the humerus (see Vol. II. p. 333), and this apiplies also to those cases in which the coronoid process is not completely detached. Should this not suffice, it may be necessary to cut down upon the process and fasten it in position (see Vol. II. p. 345). Massage is practised from the first, and slight passive movement, carried out by the surgeon himself, may be begun at the end of the first week. The passive movement must be gentle and great care must be taken to prevent recurrence of the dislocation, while the full movements of the joint should not be carried out till two or three weeks have elapsed and then very carefully. In a good many cases after dislocation without fracture of the coronoid there is a growth of bone into the lower end of the coraco-brachialis which subsequently prevents flexion. In these cases there has probably been a partial detachment of a scale of bone from the raw surface of which bone cells have escaped and spread into the tendon. It may be necessary to remove this piece of new bone. 2. Detachment of the internal Epicondyle.—ln young subjects the internal epicondyle is often torn off. The mjury is of slight importance and has been dealt with in Vol. II. (see p. 336).