AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD 432 incision, with the convexity upwards, is then made so that the opening in the bone will be beneath the centre of the flap; the opening in the bone must be large enough to expose the tumour fully. There is no risk to the vitality of the flap, because the base is large, but it is alwaj's well to plan it so that the main vessels enter at the base. After the flap has been turned down, the tourniquet should be released and the various bleeding vessels clamped. Operation in two stages.—In almost all cases it is well to divide the operation for removal of a cerebral tumour into two stages ; in the first, a sufficient opening is made in the skull to allow of free access to the tumour, and the opening of the dura mater and the removal of the tumour Fig. i86.—Cushing's Tourniquet applied to the Scalp. The rubber band is applied over a sheet of sterilised gauze or butter-muslin, stretched over the scalp. It is prevented from slipping down over the eyebrows by the tape passing from the glabella to the occipital protuberance. The tourniquet—the details of which are shown in the right-hand figure—is sterilised by boiling before use. are postponed for about a week. If the second part of the operation follows immediately after the first, it not uncommonly happens that the patient is unable to stand the added shock and loss of blood entailed by opening the dura and removing the tumour. When the dura mater is opened it may be found that the tumour is larger or is in a different situation from what was expected, and as it is impossible to tell beforehand how great will be the difficulties of the case, we prefer, as a rule, to operate in two stages. Hence we are in favour of employing the ' osteo- plastic flap,' since the slight extra time that it takes is of little consequence when the operation is to be done in two stages, while the protection that it affords to the brain subsequently is considerable. Formation of an osteo-plastic flap.—After the scalp flap has been