CHAPTER X. 78 SPRAINS OF JOINTS. By a sprain is understood an injury produced in a joint when its movements are carried beyond their normal physiological limits or when the bones entering into its formation are deflected in some unnatural direction without undergoing actual dislocation. The most common injuries are falls with the limb in an abnormal position, or twists when the lower part of the limb is fixed. Sprains may also be caused by violent muscular action, but this is a much less frequent cause than those already mentioned. Various conditions predispose to sprains. Amongst the most common are a previous injury of a similar nature which leaves a weak joint behind it, or anything, such as a deformity—for example, knock-knee, or club foot—which places the joint at a mechanical disadvantage and alters the normal Hne of transmission of the body-weight. The actual lesion which occurs when a joint is sprained varies in different cases and is often difficult to determine. Probably the chief effect of the injury falls on the ligaments of the joint, and they are damaged to a more serious extent than any other structure entering into the articulation. In the mildest forms the ligaments are merely over-stretched. In the more severe cases a portion of the capsule of the joint is ruptured, and some of the ligaments are torn wholly or in part from their attachments to the bones. The amount of damage to the ligaments depends largely upon their form, strength, and structure; broad, thin, flattened ligaments are more often damaged than com- paratively thick and strong ones. Very severe injury is required to tear the latter, and it is more common to find them detached from their insertion into the bone. In joints furnished with an inter-articular fibro-cartilage this structure may be partially or entirely detached—• a condition which gives rise to the series of symptoms referred to in connection with displacement of the semilunar cartilages of the knee. In the most serious cases of aU, the sprain may be combined with a