278 AFFECTIONS OF THE SPINE with olive oil, sterilised by boiling, or glycerine and perchloride of mercury (i in 4000). The meatus should be washed with i in 2000 sublimate solution immediately before the catheter is introduced, the fossa navicularis being cleansed with a small pledget of wool. After the urine has been drawn off, care should be taken to prevent the introduction of air into the bladder by pinching the catheter as it is withdrawn, and the glans penis should be washed and enveloped in sterilised gauze. Cystitis.—In spite of the greatest care, cystitis frequently supervenes. In treating the cystitis the principal reUance inust be placed upon washing out the bladder with antiseptic lotions, of which the best are sanitas (5]. to the pint of water), boro-glyceride (i in 20), dilute Condy's fluid or boric lotion ; internally urotropine may be given in ten- to thirtj'- grain doses. When the urine is alkaline and contains thick ropy pus, it is well to use a lotion containing five grains of sulphate of quinine and ten minims of dilute sulphuric acid to the ounce of water, or a quarter to half a grain of nitrate of silver in an ounce of distilled water. If haematuria is present, turpentine (Tl\x.-xx.) or balsam of copaiba (Tn.xx.- XXX.) may be useful; terebine (n\v.-xv.) may also be advantageously employed on account of its action both on the kidneys and the lungs. When there is pyelo-nephritis, vaccines are employed according to the organisms present, and they seem to do some good if the infection is due to the Bacillus coli. Generally, however, the case goes from bad to worse in spite of the most careful treatment, and the patient eventually dies of suppurative nephritis. Bed-sores.—The prevention of bed-sores is always most difficult and sometimes almost impossible. Every care should be taken to see that there is no undue pressure at any point ; even the knees must not be allowed to rest against one another without the intervention of a suitable pillow or pad. The various precautions recommended against bed-sores (see Vol. I. p. 70) must be scrupulously adopted, and, above aU, the skin must not be allowed to become soiled or wet. It is almost essential to employ a divided mattress in the early stages, so that the central portion can be pulled out to allow of the introduction of a bed-pan or of applications to the skin of the back. Two to three weeks later, when the fracture is beginning to consolidate, a water-bed may be employed. The empty water- bed is slipped under the patient beneath the sheet, and is readily filled through a funnel or by means of an ordinary douche-can provided with enough india-rubber tubing to aUow it to be well raised. The food must be concentrated and easily digestible; it should consist of strong soups, milk, and beef-tea. The state of the bowels must be carefully attended to, as constipation is the rule. The breathing must be facilitated as much as possible, and symptoms of commencing con- gestion of the lungs should be watched for, and treated immediatelj' they arise. Carbonate of ammonia (gr. v.-x.) and diffusible stimulants, such as alcohol or ether, must be had recourse to, and oxygen may be