AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 144 be given at meal-times in quantities as large as the patient can take without interfering with digestion. When cod-liver oil cannot be takeni proportionate quantities of fat should be added to the diet. Local Treatment.—A good deal may be done to arrest the pro- gress of the disease, to prevent stiffness, and to relieve the pain, which is often considerable. Relief of pressure.—The joint should be relieved from all undue pressure or movement. When the lower extremity is affected, walking need not be prohibited unless the pain be very severe, but in stout and anaemic patients, it should be restricted as much as possible. In the case of weU-to-do people, Hessing's splint (see Vol. II. p. 375) is useful as it allows them to walk about without bearing weight upon the joint. When the upper extremity is affected, the hmb should be supported in a sling. Care has to be taken to avoid injuries, such as twists or sprains, as these, apparently, often start the disease. Thermal treatment.—The local treatment most generally applicable is a combination of the thermal bath with massage and move- ment, and the best results are obtained in the early stages of the disease. If possible, the patient should be sent to some watering-place specially organised for the treatment of these cases ; this is far better than attempting to carry out treatment at home. The best thermal stations are Bath, Harrogate, Buxton, Droitwich, or Strathpeffer, in this country, and Aix-les-Bains abroad. Bath is probably the best for the majority of cases requiring treatment in this country ; but, should the patient require a more bracing chmate, or should he be markedly anaemic, Buxton or Harrogate are preferable. The object of sending patients to these baths is not merely that they should take the waters internally, which no doubt are of some value, but particularly that they may obtain proper douching and massage. As regards drinking these waters it is probable that any benefit which may result is due to the diuretic and laxative effects of the large quantity of water consumed rather than to any specific sub- stances that it contains. The essential thing is the local treatment. When the patient is sent to a thermal station he shoiild be directed to a medical man in the place who is well acquainted with, and superin- tends, the treatment. In order to give some idea of the course undergone by a patient at these baths, we subjoin a sketch of the treatment which Dr. Leshe Walsh, of Bath, has been good enough to give us. His remarks refer more especially to acute rheumatoid arthritis, but they may be made to apply equally to the monarticular forms of which we are now speaking, if local douching be substituted for the general form. Dr. Walsh writes as foUows :— ' The case having been carefuUy examined, and found to be a fit one for the baths,i I should order, in the case of a fairly strong person, the deep bath at a temperature of about 98° F. for twenty minutes, followed by ' I.e. the patient having no bad cardiac disease or any acute affection.