523 CLEFT PALATE TREATMENT.—The operation for closing a cleft palate demands more time than that for hare-hp, entails greater loss of blood and more shock, and is altogether a more serious operation, especially for an infant. It is, however, essential that the cleft should be closed before the child learns to talk, otherwise it is almost impossible to correct the peculiar articulation associated with this deformity. While the cleft is present, the air, which normally should be forced altogether through the mouth during the utterance of the consonants, escapes partly through the nose. The peculiar characters of the speech will still continue after operation unless the soft palate can shut off the nasal cavity during speech. Unfortunately it often happens that, in spite of a successful operation the soft palate is too short and rigid to close the naso-pharynx completely. Even when the result of the operation is perfect and when complete closure of the naso-pharynx is obtained, the child must still be carefully taught to use his soft palate and to shut off the nasal cavity during speech, otherwise no real improvement will result. Another, but less probable, explanation of the persistence of a nasal voice after an operation which is apparently successful is that the absence of nasal brea.thing due to the presence of the cleft palate prevents proper development of the nasal cavities, and thus, when the cleft has been closed, the nasal voice remains because the nasal cavity has not developed properly. The operation should not be delayed beyond the third year of life, the most favourable period being about two and a half years of age. When the cleft is very wide, and it is necessary to employ some flap method and to close the palate by successive operations, the first of these may be performed before the eruption of the teeth, but no operation should be done during the period of active dentition, otherwise union is apt to fail. Further, the child should be in good health at the time of the operation, and able to stand the necessary loss of blood. It is also a great advantage that it should be old enough to obey its nurse, so that it may not endanger union by crjdng too much after the operation. If both the hard and the soft palate are cleft, it is well, if possible, to unite b(jth at the same operation, except when the child is very young and the gap very wide; under those circumstances, the hard palate should be united first. When failure occurs, it is usually at the junction of the liard with the soft palate ; failure of union of the hard palate is not very common. Preliminary Measures.—One of the most important elements of success is the preliminary treatment of the patient. For some time previous to the operation, the feeding should be carefully attended to. As much nourishing food as possible should be given, and, if necessary, iron or other tonics. Young children should be fed with a bottle, the teat of which is fitted with a large palate-shield especially designed for the purpose. Older children should be carefully fed with a spoon. Prior to the operation the teeth, if present, must be seen to and