AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD 374 1 should be exposed first. This is found most conveniently about an inch and a half behind the external angrdar process of the frontal bone, and about the same distance above the zygoma. A large semilunar flap with its convexity upwards and its centre opposite this spot, and including all the tissues down to the bone, should be rapidly turned down. The bleeding vessels are seized with pressure forceps, or the whole thickness of the flap is clamped with BaUance's forceps ; the weight of the forceps keeps the flap out of the way. A fissure should be looked for, and, if found, the tre- <:^c_ 'Vi phine should be apphed over it, the pin being inserted just to one side of it, and about an inch and a half above the level of the zygoma. UsuaUy the presence of a fissure is indicated, as soon as the flap is turned down, by extra- vasation of blood into the temporal muscle. It is always best to trephine over the frac- ture first, because the blood may come from one of the smaller twigs and not from the main branch. When no fissure can be seen, the pin of the trephine should be applied over the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. The trephine should have a conical crown, so that it cannot sHp into the cranial cavity after the bone has been divided (see Fig. 149). It should be remem- bered that in this situation the skull is usuaUy very thin ; if, however, the diagnosis is correct, there wiU be little risk to the dura, which is widely separated from the bone by the clot. The operation of trephining has already been fully described (see p. 345). The circle of bone removed should be placed temporarily beneath the scalp (see p. 344) in case it should be required afterwards. As a rule, the clot is at once exposed and bulges into the opening, but does not usually pulsate ; should it do so, it generally means that free haemorrhage is going on, the pulsation being communicated not from the brain, but from the open end of the torn artery. The clot should be gently removed with a blunt scoop or an egg-spoon, and any debris may be flushed out with normal saline solution at the body temperatrue. Care should be taken that the irrigation is not applied under pressure, otherwise it might detach the dura stiU further ; the escape of the fluid must be perfectly free. Should the torn vessel not be sufficiently exposed —which usually means that the rupture is lower down—portions of the Fig. 155. — Head-support for Operations upon the Brain. The form illustrated above is meant for use in operations upon both the cere- brum and the cerebellum.