AFFECTIONS OF THE HEAD 378 skull, into which oozing will take place ; under these circumstances, therefore, it is advisable to insert a drainage tube, so as to allow the fluid blood to escape. Moreover, when the brain does not expand properly, it is not advisable to replace the piece of bone removed by the trephine. The drainage tube may generally be removed in two or three days. After the wound has been stitched up with a continuous suture, the ordinary antiseptic dressings are applied and the patient put back to bed and propped up in the semi-recumbent position ; the ordinary after-treatment of a surgical operation should be carried out. SUB-DUBAL H^MORRHAGB.—In the above operation the dura mater is not opened, the entire procedure being extra-dural. In some cases, however, after exposing the dura mater no blood is found between the membrane and the bone, but the dura bulges outwards into the wound, is of a dark bluish colour, and does not pulsate. This is evidence that haemorrhage has occurred into the sub- dural space, either from the - ' igi /g/ middle meningeal branches or / «^^^fc.^-^-c^'^i^ IM HI from the vessels of the pia mater. In either case the dura mater must be opened in order to remove the clot and secure the bleeding vessels. It is well to employ a curved incision in the dura mater with its convexity downwards; this takes the line of incision in the dura as far away as possible from that in the skin. The incision should run about a quarter of an inch from the margin of the bone, and should be begun with a sharp knife, and then completed with a pair of blunt-pointed scissors, such as are used in eye operations. This exposes the clot (see Fig. i6o), which is removed in the manner above described; the bleeding vessel is secured either by picking it up by forceps or by under-running. The wound in the dura is then stitched up and no drainage need be employed if the brain expands completely during the operation. In stitching up the dura mater, it is well not to use a continuous suture ; it is better to put in a few interrupted stitches, leaving intervals between them through which blood and semm may escape outwards. If the brain does not expand properly, a fine horse-hair drain should be introduced beneath the dura mater and brought Fig. 159.—Cushing's Clips for the Middle Menin- geal Artery. The sketch shows how the clips are held in forceps and applied to the wounded vessel. The lowest figure shows how the clips are made.