550 AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE nerve to the hypoglossal nerve will have to be considered. It may be easier to carry out this procedure than to unite the divided ends. Anastomosis of the Facial Nerve.—In cases of permanent facial paralysis due to some lesion situated between the origin of the nerve and the stylo-mastoid foramen—usually middle-ear disease—it may be possible to relieve the unsightly facial paralysis that ensues by grafting the distal end of the facial, after its emergence from the skull, upon some other sound nerve in the hope that the latter may send motor impulses down the terminal branches of the facial and that thus the functions of this nerve may be restored. For this purpose the hypo- glossal has been frequently used with fair success ; previously the spinal accessory had been used for a similar purpose, but the operation in this case is rather more difficult and, moreover, associated movements of the face and shoulder are apt to occur and persist for a long time. In the operation of facio-hypoglossal anastomosis the incision is made behind the ear close along the anterior margin of the mastoid process, beginning on a level with the centre of the external auditory meatus and running down the anterior margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle to the level of the hyoid bone. If the patient is fat or very muscular, this incision may be curved a little forward below over the submaxillary area, or a second short incision may be made from the centre of it to the angle of the jaw. The facial is exposed at its emergence from the stylo- mastoid foramen [vide supra). It should then be divided at the foramen and its distal end turned forwards, while the hypoglossal is defined as it emerges beneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles and just before it hooks round the occipital artery. From this point it is carefully traced back to the nearest point to the divided distal end of the facial which is pulled down into contact with it. If necessary both the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles may be divided. A small slit is made into the sheath of the hypoglossal nerve at the spot chosen and a few of the nerve fibres are divided transversely. Into this slit the divided distal end of the facial is implanted by the method of suture described in Vol. II. p. 122. Anastomosis of the facial with the spinal accessory nerve can be per- formed through a similar incision. For the reasons given above it has been largely abandoned in favour of the former operation. WOUNDS OF THE SALIVARY DUCTS. These may result from wounds of the parotid gland—in which case one of the smaller ducts is usually damaged, and the fistula may be only temporary—or from injuries to the cheek, when Stenson's duct may be injured, and a permanent fistula results. Wounds of Ducts in the Parotid Gland.—When a wound over the parotid gland is accompanied by an escape of saliva, deep