269 DISLOCATION AND FRACTURE-DISLOCATION common ligaments are lacerated. The upper part of the spine is prac- tically always displaced forward. Paralysis may occur, varying in situation and in degree according to the injury inflicted upon the cord, and the nerves may also be subjected to pressure as thev pass through the inter-vertebral foramina. Owing to the smallness of the bodies of the vertebrae and the large size of the spinal canal in the cervical region, the damage to the cord is not usually so extensive as when the injury occurs lower down, so that in some cases marked benefit may result from the reduction of the dislocation. Fracture-dislocation, on the other hand, is a combination of fracture and dislocation, and may result either from direct or indirect violence ; the latter is the more common, the spine being forcibly bent forw-ards. Fracture-dislocation by direct violence is comparatively rare, but it may be caused by severe kicks, blows, or the passage of heavy bodies across the spine; it often occurs in adult labouring-men, as the result of a fall from a height. Fracture-dislocation may occur in any portion of the spine, most commonly in the lower cervical and the dorso-lumbar regions. As a rule the line of fracture runs obliquely from above downwards and forwards through the body of the vertebra, the upper part of the spine being carried forwards, and the posterior edge of the lower portion of the vertebra forming a sharp projection over which the cord is stretched and bruised. Accompanying the fracture there is dislocation of the articular processes, and it is well to bear this in mind during attempts at reduction, because these processes may form the chief obstacle to replacement of the fractured vertebra. The spinous processes and the laminae may also be fractured inde- pendently of the bodv, either from violent flexion of the spine or, more usually, from direct violence. The gravity of a case of fractured spine depends on the amount of damage done to the spinal cord, which in turn depends on the degree of displacement that has occurred. The cord is acutely flexed over the pro- jecting lower part of the body of the fractured vertebra, and, if the flexion is great, the cord may be very severely damaged ; in some cases it is so pulped up that its structure is unrecognisable and it is merely repre- sented by a tube of dura mater containing a mass of blood-clot and disintegrated nerve elements. It is important from the point of view of the efficacy of operation to remember that the lesion of the cord is generally caused not by continued pressure, but by sudden contusion at the time of the injury, so that the chances of doing good by reducing the fracture-dislocation or by removing bone pressing on the cord are very slight indeed. SYMPTOMS.—-Fractures of the spine are accompanied by a series of symptoms due to the damage that the cord has sustained, and these vary in nature and severity with the situation of the fracture and the