AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 138 although this may not be due to organic causes. It is quite useless to treat the case as if it were trivial, to make light of the pain, and to set the patient down as an hysterical person, with whom there is nothing the matter. The only result is that the patient loses confidence in her medical man ; when she does this, the sooner she calls in another the better. General Treatment.—The first essential in the treatment of all these cases is to encourage the patient to look forward to complete recovery, to provide cheerful surroundings and to interest her in matters other than her own ailments. Her friends should avoid directing her attention to her trouble by sympathetic references to it. In addition, the general health must be attended to, and tonics, particularly iron, should be administered. The Weir Mitchell Treatment.—In really bad cases when no improve- ment follows milder measures, the employment of the method of treatment introduced by Dr. Weir Mitchell is often of the greatest benefit. The first essential is to remove the patient from her relatives and friends completely for a time, and thus get rid of the injudicious sympathy which keeps the patient's attention constantly concentrated on her troubles. This is done by placing her under the care of a firm but cheerful nurse in some suitable home, cutting off all communication with the friends, and promoting the vigour of the body by nourish- ing diet, massage, and exercises. The following is a short sketch of the main points in the treatment. The first step is to remove the patient from her home and place her in charge of a suitable nurse. Although not absolutely necessary in aU cases, this is of the highest importance and is indispensable in the worst forms. The patient should not be allowed to see, or communicate with, her relatives or friends without permission. The surgeon will be wise to refuse to undertake the case except upon this understanding. When the hysterical condition is not very marked, some relaxation of this rule may be permitted, but care must be exercised not to go so far as to defeat the primary object of the plan—viz. the abolition of the injudicious sympathy by which these patients are surrounded. For the first two or three weeks the patient should he confined to bed, even though the joint affected be in the upper extremity, and should not be allowed to sit up, to read, or even to feed herself, until the general condition has much improved. Drugs, especially narcotics, should be avoided ; the massage and feeding soon render them unnecessary, the patient rapidly losing her pain and sleeping well. The massage should be done by a special masseuse, and not by the nurse in charge of the patient, who has enough to do with her ordinary duties. It should be applied to the whole body, working upwards from the extremities, and its aim is to improve the circulation generally, and produce extensive tissue-changes. The skin is anointed with oil