AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 114 amount of outdoor exercise, and the form which it takes, must therefore depend in the main upon the joint affected. When the mischief is in the lower extremity, it is best in the early stages to keep the patient recumbent on a couch, upon which he may be wheeled out of doors. When the affected joint is in the upper extremity, the patient may walk about from the first. All exercise must be of the gentlest description in the first instance ; a slight injury to another joint may readily set up similar disease there. The patient should not join in any violent games or any unduly vigorous exercises. Unfortunately, it is only comparatively well-to-do patients who can properly avail themselves of the best hygienic treatment, which, to be of real value, should be persevered with until recovery is complete; this usually means a period not of weeks or months, but of years. In the case of the poor such treatment is not easily obtained, and it seems advisable that every hospital for the treatment of these diseases should have a department in the country, to which the patient can be sent and where he can be kept under careful treatment for as long as may be necessary. At Paddington Green Children's Hospital we carry this out by having a Convalescent Home in the country, to which tuberculous cases are sent as soon as the local condition permits, and at which they are kept as long as may be necessary. The Home is within reach of town, and the treatment can therefore be superintended by those who have had charge of the case from the first. To send a patient with tuber- culous joint disease—especially if any operative interference has been practised—to one of the ordinary Convalescent Homes for the usual period of three weeks is not only useless, but actually objectionable, in so far as the patient passes out of the hands of the surgeon just at a time when it is inadvisable to make any change in the local treatment. Nor should private patients be sent for an indefinite period out of the ken of the surgeon who did the operation ; they should be seen by him at short and regular intervals. This question of proper hygiene not only affects the ultimate recovery of a patient, but also has an important bearing upon the treatment, because, when prolonged rest and other hygienic measures are un - obtainable, it is often advisable to undertake operative interference at an earlier date and upon a larger scale than would be necessary were the patient able to afford prolonged hygienic treatment. Dietetic.—The diet must be as nourishing as possible, and should consist of the most easily digested foods, especially those with abundance of fat. A meat diet is preferable to a vegetable one. The consumption of potatoes and vegetables containing much potash should be restricted. Medicinal.—Among drugs the chief reliance is placed on cod- liver oil, particularly in the form of an emulsion. It should be given even when the patient is fat and well nourished, but not in too large doses.