83 WOUNDS joint and wash it out with an antiseptic. On the other hand, all the tissues superficial to the joint must be looked upon as being possibly infected, and treated accordingly. The first step in the treatment is to disinfect the skin thoroughly for a considerable distance around the wound (see Vol. I. p. 100). The wound in the subcutaneous tissues should also be disinfected and for this purpose it is often necessary to enlarge the opening in the skin, and, considering the extreme gravity of these cases should the joint become infected, it is well to disinfect this part of the woimd most vigorously ; in most cases indeed it is advisable to apply undiluted carbolic acid to any visibly soiled parts. A probe should never be used in order to ascertain whether the wound communicates with the joint. There is no particular object in obtaining this information; it is far better to assume tliat the joint has been l)enetrated, and to disinfect the wound in the skin and the soft parts without touching the joint. Beyond ascertaining that tlie capsule of the joint is wounded—which is not a matter that alters the treatment—the use of a probe may lead to the introduction of septic material from the wound to the interior of the joint, and thus precij^itate a disaster which would otherwise not occur. It is well to leave the wound widely open and not to insert any stitches. The edges of the wound may be allowed to fall together, and the limb is placed on a splint, with the joint in the most comfortable position. A fter-ireatmcnl.—The dressings should be changed on the following day in order to ascertain the condition of the joint ; lutt unless the temperature rises considerably, or there is severe pain and swelling in the joint, there need be no apprehension of septic infection. An injury of this kind frequently gives rise to considerable synovial eft'usion, and it is chiefly to ascertain the condition of the joint in this respect that it is advisable to change the dressings at this early period. If after the lapse of twenty-four hours there are no signs of inflammation in the wound, if the temperature is low and there is no more pain than can be accounted for by the effusion into the joint, it may be taken for granted that asepsis has been attained and tlie dressing need not therefore be cnanged for several days unless discharge comes through, or some other indication arises in the meanwhile. The limb should be kept at rest until the wound has healed, or at least is quite superficial, when tlie s])lint should be left off and passive movement begun. CLEAN-CUT WOUNDS.—When the wound into the joint is large, retraction of the edges will generally suftice to enal)le the surgeon to make a thorough inspection of the articular cavity, but if not, suitable incisions must be made. In these cases it is well t(j assume that the joint has been infected, although the amount of infection may be slight. In the first place the skin is shaved and disinfected, and the wound in the soft parts washed with i in 20 carbolic acid solution, undiluted