AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS 76 It usually results from violence applied to the foot in the fully plantar- flexed position, as may occur in alighting from a height upon the toes, or in machinery accidents, where the limb is violently pulled and twisted. Dislocation backwards is produced by extreme violence applied whilst the foot is fully dorsi-flexed, but this is a very rare accident. TREATMENT.—The knee should be flexed under full anaesthesia and the leg fixed by an assistant. Traction is exerted upon the foot so as to separate the os calcis as far as possible from the tibio-fibular arch. While this is maintained at its utmost extent, attempts are made to press the astragalus back into position between the os calcis and the tibia. The separation of the bones of the foot from those of the leg may be aided by dividing the tendo Achillis. It is seldom possible to get the bone into place by these means, how- ever, and in that case immediate operation is imperative, otherwise gangrene of the skin over the projecting bone is almost certain to follow. The best plan is to make an incision on each side of the front of the ankle—that on the inner side commencing an inch above the articular surface, just in front of the malleolus, and running downwards and for- wards to the internal cuneiform bone ; that on the outer, running from just above and in front of the external malleolus downwards and forwards to the cuboid. In deepening the inner incision the tendon of the tibialis anticus should be preserved, and the tissues lying over the astragalus should be separated from the bone so as to enable the condition of the parts to be investigated ; it may then be possible to press the astragalus into position by making forcible traction upon the foot. Should the surgeon fail to replace the bone it must be removed. The functional result should be excellent. Fig. 41.—Dislocation of the Astragalus Forwards and In- wards. The toes are pointed and the astragalus projects very markedly on the inner side. OTHER DISLOCATIONS OF THE TARSUS AND METATARSUS. The remaining dislocations occurring about the foot need no detailed description. Cases of dislocation at the transverse tarsal joint have been recorded; should this form occur, it must be reduced under an anesthetic by making firm traction upon the front part of the foot.