FRACTURES OF THE VAULT OF THE SKULL 343 over a wide area, and to disinfect it thoroughly (see p. 328). The fracture is then exposed by raising a semi-lunar flap, which should overlap the depressed area by at least half an inch. The flap should be cut so that the main vessels enter at its base, its convexity therefore being upwards. The incision should be carried down to and through the pericranium, and the latter should be raised by a periosteum detacher along with the skin flap. When the flap has been turned down, the fractured area is exposed to view, and the bleeding stopped temporarily by catching up the vessels with Ballance's or Spencer Wells's forceps. Removal of bone.—The further procedure will depend largely upon Fig. 145.—Method of removing a depressed fragment of the Skull in a Depressed Fracture. A large flap has been turned down and a half-circle of the sound skull has been removed with a trephine. Through the aperture thus made the blade of a pair of forceps is introduced beneath the depressed fragment, which is then removed, the forceps being kept flat against the skull during the removal. In the case depicted above it was necessary to cut away some of the sound skull above the fragment with Hoffman's forceps in order to allow of extraction. the amount of comminution and the presence of loose fragments. In some cases of badly comminuted fracture, loose portions of the bone can be lifted out and access thus obtained at once to the rest of the depressed area. An elevator should then be gently insinuated between the dura mater and the bone, and the remaining depressed portions elevated. If any of these fragments are completely detached, they should be removed so as to get a better view of the deeper parts, and any sharp projecting fragments of the internal table should be clipped away with punch forceps. It is important, in removing the detached fragments, to take care not to tilt them, otherwise their sharp edges may lacerate the dura mater ; they should be drawn out very gently, and nearly parallel to the surface of the skull (see Fig. 145). This point is specially important