THE BLOOD. 28 deduction is made for the fibrin ; but, considering its small relative quantity, any possible variation in it cannot materially affect the general conclusion. Male. Female. Crassamentum, from. 115-8 to 148 . . GS'3 to 129*9 "Water . . . . 778 to 805 . . 790 to 853 As regards age, Denis found the proportion of crassamentum greatest between the ages of 30 and 40. Sudden loss of blood rapidly diminishes it. In two women who had suffered from uterine haemorrhage, the crassamentum amounted to only 70 parts in 1000. The same effect may be observed to follow ordinary venesection. In a person bled three times in one day, Lecanu found in the first drawn blood 139,. and in the last only 76 parts of crassamentum in the 1000. This effect may be produced very suddenly after a bleeding. Prevost and Dumas bled a cat from the jugular vein, and found 116 parts of crassamentum in 1000, but in blood drawn five minutes afterwards, it was reduced to 93. The sudden loss of blood probably causes a rapid absorption of serous and watery fluid into the vessels, and thus diminishes the relative amount of the red particles. It is found that the blood of warm-blooded animals is richer in crassamentum than that of the cold-blooded; and, among the former, the proportion is highest in the class of buds. Liquor Sanguinis, or Plasma.—The fluid part of the blood, as already described, separates spontaneously into fibrin and serum. The fibrin may be obtained by stirring the blood as soon as possible after it is drawn, or by washing the crassamentum with water, to free it from red matter. Procured in either of these ways, the fibrin contains pale corpuscles and a small proportion of fat. From dried fibrin of healthy human blood, N-asse obtained nearly five per cent, of fat, and still more from the fibrin of buffy blood. The proportion of fibrin in the blood does not exceed 2J parts in 1000 ; indeed, according to the greater number of observers, it is not more than 2A. As a general rule, the quantity is somewhat greater in arterial than in venous blood, and it is increased in certain states of the body, especially in inflammatory diseases and in pregnancy. Origin of Fibrin, — It is now ascertained that the fibrin is not present, as such, in a liquid form, in the plasma, but is produced at the moment of consolidation by the co-operation or combination of two previously distinct substances. About thirty years ago, A. Buchanan* discovered that the fluid of hydrocele, which might in an unmixed state be kept for an indefinite time without coagulating, very speedily congealed and separated into clot and serum when mixed with a little blood. Ordinary blood-serum, blood-clot, especially washed clot, and buffy coat, even after being dried and long kept, when added in small proportion to the hydrocele-fluid, produced the same effect. From these facts Buchanan concluded that fibrin exists as a liquid both in hydrocele-fluid and in the liquor sanguinis, that liquid fibrin does not coagulate spontaneously, but requires for that end.the influence of some "suitable reagents," that such a reagent is naturally present in the blood, and brings about the solidification of its fibrin in the natural process of coagulation, and that it is absent from the hydrocele-fluid, but when supplied by the addition of blood, causes the fluid fibrin to solidify. On further reasoning on the facts he had observed, Dr. Buchanan was led to believe that "coagulant power" * Proceedings of the Glasgow Philosophical Society, IS45.