STRUCTURE OF THE BLADDER. 425 having various appearances in different bladders. Their course may in general be looked upon as transverse, but for the most part throughout the upper two-thirds of the bladder they cross one another in very oblique bands : towards the lower part of the organ they assume a more circular course, and upon the fundus and trigone form a tolerably regular layer. Close to and around the cervix, in immediate connection with the pro- state in the male, they densely encircle the orifice and constitute what has been named the sphincter vesicae, which, however, is not distinct from the other fibres. The third stratum of fibres, still more deeply situated, and which might be termed internal longitudinal, was first described by Ellis, who Fig. 307.—View of the Muscular Fibres of the Bladder from the left Side (Allen Thomson, after Petti- grew). & The anterior and posterior superficial fibres are seen running from below up- wards, crossing each other by tbeir diver- gence on the sides of the bladder, and are indicated by the same letters as in the preceding figures ; at c, a portion of the anterior longitudinal fibres has been re- moved so as to expose the deeper circular fibres. distinguished it as " submucous." It is very delicate, and its fibres, directed longitudinally, are dis- posed in a regular manner round the cavity of the bladder. Fig. 307. 0 >L_^ The muscular coat of the bladder forms so irregular a covering-, that, when the organ is much distended, intervals arise in which the walls are very thin ; and, should the internal or mucous lining protrude in any spot through the muscular bundles, a sort of hernia is produced, which may go on increasing, so as to form what is called a vesical sacculus, or appendix vesica, the bladder thus affected being termed sacculated. Hypertrophy of the muscular fasciculi, which is liable to occur in stricture of the urethra or other affections impeding the issue of the urine, gives rise to that condition named the fasciculated bladder, in which the interior of the organ is marked by strong reticulated ridges or columns, with intervening depressions. On the muscular arrangements of the bladder, see Ellis, in Trans. Med. Chir. Society, 1856, and Demonstrations of Anatomy ; Pettigrew, in Phil. Trans, for 1866 ; Sabatier, Rech. Anat. et Phys. sur les Appareils musculaires correspondants a la vessie et a la prostate dans les deux sexes, 1864. Next to the muscular coat, between it and the mucous membrane, but much more intimately connected with the latter, is a well-marked layer of areolar tissue, the vascular or submucous coat. This submucous areolar layer contains a large quantity of very fine coiled fibres of elastic tissue. The mucous membrane of the bladder is soft, smooth, and of a pale rose colour. It is continuous above with the lining membrane of the ureters and kidneys, and below with that of the urethra. It adheres loosely to the muscular tissue, and is thus liable to be thrown into wrinkles, except at the trigone, where it is always more even. It is