820 DEVELOPMENT OF THE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS. liarity of the mode of fusion accounts for the occurrence, as a rare anomaly, not only of double uterus, but of duplicity of the vagina, coincident with communication between two lateral halves of the uterus. The next following part of the Mullerian duct, constitutes in animals with horned uteri, the cornu of the uterus ; but in the human subject it remains comparatively short, entering into the formation of the upper part of the organ. The remaining upper portion of the Mullerian duct constitutes the Fallopian tube—becoming at first open and subsequently fringed at a short distance from its upper extremity. The pediculated hydatid of the fimbriated extremity (Hydatid of Morgagni) appears to be the remains of the original upper end of the Mullerian tube. The additional or accessory fimbriEe and openings referred to at p. 471, and by Henle in his Handbuch. vol. ii., p. 470, may admit of explanation on the suppo- sition of the duct of Midler having remained open at these places. In the human embryo of the third month the uterus is two-homed, and it is by a subsequent median fusion and consolidation that the triangular body of the entire organ is produced. The cornua uteri, therefore, of the human uterus correspond with the separate cornua of the divided uterus in animals, and this explains the occasional malformation consisting in the greater or less division of the uterine cavity and vagina into two passages. There is no distinction in the Fig. 613. A B Fig. 613.—Female ^Genital Organs op the Embryo with the Remains of the Wolffian Bodies (after J. Miiller). A, from a fetal sheep; a, the kidneys; 5, the ureters; c, the ovaries ; d, remains of Wolffian bodies ; e, Fallopian tubes ; /, their abdominal openings ; g, their union in the body of the uterus. B, more advanced from a foetal deer ; a, body of the uterus ; b, cornua ; c, tubes ; d, ovaries ; e, remains of Wolffian bodies. C, still more advanced from the human foetus of three months ; a, the body of the uterus ; 6, the round liga- ment ; c, the Fallopian tubes ; d, the ovaries ; e, remains of the Wolffian bodies. human foetus in the third and fourth month between the vagina and uterus. In the fifth and sixth months the os uteri begins to be formed, and the neck is sub- sequently gradually distinguished. Thickening succeeds in the walls of the uterine portion ; but this takes place first in the cervix, which up to the time of birth is much larger and thicker than the body of the uterus (Kolliker). In the meantime the Wolffian bodies undergo a partial atrophy, and their ducts