272 THE LUNGS. of dark slate-colour, which sometimes increase to such a degree as to render the surface almost uniformly black. The dark colouring matter found in these streaks is in the form of granules and collections of granules, frequently not inclosed in cells ; it is deposited in the in- terstitial areolar tissue mostly near the surface of the lung, and is not found so abundantly in the deeper substance. It exists sometimes in the air-cells, and on the coats of the larger vessels. Its quantity increases with age, and is said to be less abundant in females than in males. In persons who follow the occupation of miners, more especially colliers, the lungs are often intensely charged with black matter. The black substance seems mainly to consist of particles of carbonaceous substance. It is found also in the bronchial glands ; indeed, it appears to be taken up in large measure by the lymphatics. In exceptional cases the adult lungs exhibit only very slight streaks of pigment. Condition in the foetus and changes after birth.—In the foetus the lungs contain no air, and consequently sink in water. For a long time the lungs are very small, and occupy only a limited space at the back part of the chest. In an embryo, 16 lines in length, their proportionate weight to the body was found by Meckel to be 1 to 25 ; in another, 29 lines long, it was 1 to 27 ; in another 4 inches in length, 1 to 41 ; and at the full period, 1 to 70. Huschke found that the lungs of still-born male children were heavier in proportion to the weight of the body than those of female children ; the ratio being, amongst females, 1 to 76, and in males, 1 to 55. The lungs undergo very rapid and remarkable changes after birth, in conse- quence of the commencement of respiration : these affect their size, position, form, consistence, texture, colour, and weight, and should be carefully studied, as furnishing the only means of distinguishing between a still-born child and one that has respired. 1. Position, size, and form.—In a foetus at the full period, or in a still-born child, the lungs, comparatively small, lie packed at the back of the thorax, and do not entirely cover the sides of the pericardium ; subsequently to respiration, they expand, and completely cover the pleural portions of that sac, and are also in contact with almost the whole extent of the thoracic wall, where it is covered with the pleural membrane. At the same time, then previously thin sharp margins become more obtuse, and their whole form is less compressed. 2. Consistence, texture, and colour.—The introduction of air and of an increased quantity of blood into the foetal lungs, which ensues immediately upon birth, converts their tissue from a compact, heavy, granular, yellowish-pink, gland-like substance, into a loose, light, rose-pink, spongy structure, which, as already men- tioned, floats in water. The changes thus simultaneously produced in their consistence, colour, and texture, occur first at then* anterior borders, and proceed backwards through the lungs : they, moreover, appear in the right lung a little sooner than in the left. 3. Weight.—The absolute weight of the lungs having gradually increased from the earliest period of development to birth, undergoes at that time, from the quantity of blood then poured into them, a very marked addition, amounting to more than one third of their previous weight: for example, the lungs before birth weigh about one and a half ounce, but, after complete expansion by respi- ration, they weigh as much as two and a half ounces. The relative weight of the lungs to the body, which at the termination of intra-uterine life is about 1 to 70, becomes, after respiration, on an average, about 1 to 35 or 40 ; a proportion which is not materially altered through life. The specific gravity is at the same time changed from 1*056 to about *342. 4. Changes in the trachea after birth.—In the foetus the trachea is flattened before and behind, its anterior surface being even somewhat depressed ; the ends of the cartilages touch ; and the sides of the tube, which now contains only mucus, are applied to one another. The effect of respiration is at first to render the trachea open, but it still remains somewhat flattened in front, and only later becomes convex.