359 VALVULE CONNIVENTES. it is placed. By turning a portion of the intestine inside out, and then blowing forcibly into the cavity, the areolar tunic" may be inflated, the air being driven into its areolar tissue through the part at which Fig. 253.—Diagrammatic View in Perspective of a Portion op the Coats op the Stomach and Duodenum, including the Pylorus (Allen Thomson). y. inner surface of the gastric mucous mem- brane ; g', section of the mucous membrane with the pyloric gastric glands ; v, the villous surface of the mucous membrane of the duodenum ; i, section of the same with the intestinal glands or crypts of Lieberkiihn; pp, the ridge of the pyloric ring, with a section of its component parts ; mi, deep or circular layer of muscular fibres : these are seen in the section to form the pyloric sphincter; me, external or longi- tudinal layer of muscular fibres ; s, the serous covering. Fig. 253. J3 the peritoneal investment is wanting. It supports the mucous mem- brane, and forms a layer of loose substance in which the vessels divide and subdivide into smaller branches, preparatory to entering that mem- brane. It consists of areolar tissue, mixed with fine elastic fibres. The internal coat or mucous membrane, is characterised by present- ing all over its inner surface a finely flocculent or shaggy appearance, like the pile upon velvet, owing to its being thickly covered with minute processes, named villi; hence it is also named the villous coat. It is one of the most vascular membranes in the whole body, aucl is naturally of a reddish colour in the upper part of the small intestine, but becomes paler, and at the same time thinner, towards the lower end. It is covered like that of the stomach with a columnar epithelium throughout its whole extent, and next to the submucous coat is bounded by a layer of plain muscular tissue (muscularis mucosa?) ; between this and the epithe- lium the substance of the mem- brane, apart from the tubular glands which will be afterwards described, consists mainly of retiform tissue which supports the blood-vessels and lacteals, and encloses in its meshes numerous lymph-corpuscles. The folds and wrinkles found upon the inner surface of the oesophagus and stomach may be completely obliterated by full distension of those parts of the alimentary canal. In the lining membrane of the small intestine, however, there exist besides such effaceable folds, other permanent ones, which cannot be obliterated, even when the tube is forcibly distended. These permanent folds are the valvulse conniventes, or valves of Kerkring (fig. 254). They are crescentic projections of the mucous membrane, placed transversely to the course of the bowel, each of them reaching about one-half or two- Fig. 254. Fig. 254.—Portion op Small Intestine laid OPEN TO SHOW THE VALVULE CONNIVENTES (Brinton).