317 DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEETH. like tissue interposed between the two. The inner coat is lined with the epithelium of the enamel organ to be hereafter described. Their Pig. 218.— The Dental Sacs Fig. 218. exposed in the j aw of a Child at Birth. a, the left half seen from the inner side ; b, the right half seen from the outer side ; part of the bone has been removed so as to ex- pose the dental sacs as they lie below the gum ; the lower .■figure shows the sacs of the milk-teeth and the first per- manent molar, exposed by- removing the bone from the outside ; the upper figure shows the same from the in- side, together with the sacs of the permanent incisor and ■canine teeth adhering to the gum. "blood-vessels are derived partly from the dental arteries which course .along the base of the sacs, and partly from those of the gums. The papiltee, now the dental pulps, acquire a perfect resemblance to the crowns of the future teeth, and then the formation of the hard sub- stance commences in them, as will be immediately described. This process begins very early, and by the end of the fourth month of foetal life thin shells or caps of dentine (fig. 219, 1) are found on all the pulps of the milk-teeth, and a little later on that of the first per- manent molar, while at the same time the coating of enamel begins to be deposited on each. Fig. 219. Fig. 219.—Different Stages in the Formation of a Molar Tooth with Two Fangs (from Blake). 1, the distinct caps of dentine for five cusps in the earliest stage of formation ; in 2, and the remaining figures, the crown is downwards ; in 2 and 3, the formation of the crown having proceeded as far as the neck, a bridge of dentine stretches across the base of the tooth-pulp ; and in 4, the division of the fangs is thus completed ; in 5, 6, and 7, the extension takes place in the fangs. The cap of dentine increases in extent by a growth around its edges, and in thickness by additions in its interior, while the substance of the pulp decreases in proportion. This growth of the tooth continues until the crown is completed of its proper width, and then the pulp under- goes a constriction at its base to form the cervix of the tooth, and