NUTRITION OF THE TEXTURES. 17 ceivable mode in which the renovation of matter might be brought about, namely, by a molecular change which renews the substance, particle by particle, without affecting the form or structure ; by a pro- cess, in short, which might be termed " molecular renovation." Still, although conclusive evidence is wanting on the point, it seems probable that the crude material of nutrition first undergoes a certain elaboration or preparation through the agency of cells disseminated in the tissue ; which may serve as centres of assimilation and increase, as already explained. Office of the vessels.—In the instance of cuticle and epithelium, no vessels enter the tissue, but the nutrient fluid which the subjacent vessels afford penetrates a certain way into the growing mass, and the cells continue to assimilate this fluid, and pass through their changes at a distance from, and independently of, the blood-vessels. In other non-vascular tissues, such as articular cartilage, the nutrient fluid is doubtless, in like manner, conveyed by imbibition through their mass, where it is then attracted and assimilated. The mode of nutri- tion of these and other non-vascular masses of tissue may be compared, indeed, to that which takes place throughout the entire organism in cellular plants, as well as in polypes and some other simple kinds of animals, in which no vessels have been detected. But even in the vascular tissues the case is not absolutely different; in these, it is true, the vessels traverse the tissue, but they do not penetrate into its structural elements. Thus the capillary vessels of muscle pass between and around its fibres, but do not penetrate their inclosing sheaths ; still less do they penetrate the fibrillse within the fibre ; these, indeed, are much smaller than the finest vessel. The nutrient fluid, on exuding from the vessels, has here, therefore, as well as in the non-vascular tissues, to permeate the adjoining mass by transudation, in order to reach these elements, and yield new substance at every point where renovation is going on. The vessels of a tissue have, indeed, been not unaptly compared to the artificial channels of irrigation which distri- bute water over a field ; just as the water penetrates and pervades the soil which lies between the intersecting streamlets, and thus reaches the growing plants, so the nutritious fluid, escaping through the coats of the blood-vessels, must permeate the intermediate mass of tissue which lies in the meshes of even the finest vascular network. The quantity of fluid supplied, and the distance it has to penetrate beyond the vessels, will vary according to the proportion which the latter bear to the mass requiring to be nourished. We have seen that in the cuticle the decayed parts are thrown off at the free surface ; in the vascular tissues, on the other hand, the old or effete matter must be first reduced to a liquid state, then find its way into the blood-vessels, or lymphatics, along with the residual part of the nutritive plasma, and be by them carried off. From what has been said, it is clear that the vessels are not proved to perform any other part, in the series of changes above described, beyond that of convey- ing matter to and from the scene of nutrition ; and that this, though a necessary condition, is not the essential part of the process. The several acts of assuming and assimilating new matter, of conferring on it organic structure and form, and •of disorganising again that which is to be removed, which are so many manifes- tations of the metabolic and plastic properties already spoken of, are performed - beyond the blood-vessels. It is plain, also, that a tissue, although devoid of vessels, VOL II. c