455 THE SEMEN. an inch in length. The body often contains a minute spot, and at its junction with the narrow filament or tail, there is frequently a slight thickening, or Fig. 324. — Spermatic Cells and Filaments of the Bull undergo- ing development (from Kolliker). 4 SO 1 1, spermatic cells with one or two nuclei, one of them clear ; 2, 3, free nuclei with spermatic filaments form- ing ; 4, the filaments elongated and the body widened ; 5, filaments nearly fully developed. projecting fringe or collar, which is most apparent in corpuscles not fully developed. The spermatic corpuscles are pro- duced by a process of transforma- tion taking place within the cells which occupy the seminiferous tubes of the body of the testicle : it is completed in the progress of the cells through the rete testis and vasa efferentia, in which last most of the spermatic filaments are free, and have acquired their vibratory motile power. The process of transformation was first clearly shown by Kolliker in mammalia, in which he described the spermatic cells as having formed within them by division a smaller or greater number of Fig. 325.—Escape of the Spermatic Cor- puscles FROM THEIR CELLS, IN THE SAME Animal. 1, spermatic cell containing the spermatozoon coiled up within it; 2, the cells elongated by the partial uncoiling of the spermatic filament ; 3, a cell from which the filament has in part become free ; 4, the same Avith the body also partially free ; 5, spermatozoon from the epididymis with vestiges of the cell adherent ; 6, spermatozoon from the vas deferens showing the small enlarge- ment, b, on the filament. nuclei, each one of which gives rise to a filamentous corpuscle. (Handbuch der Ge- webelehre, 1867, p. 527, and Zeitsch. f. Wissen. Zool., vol. vii.) Subsequent observers have in the main confirmed the views of Kolliker, the only difference of importance between them being that some, as Merkel and La Valette St. George, appear to regard the internal progeny of the spermatic cells as complete cells rather than nuclei. Adopting the language of the latter observers, it appears that the so-called body or head of the corpuscle is produced by a change of form and consistence in the part of the cell containing the nucleus, which projects more and more to one side : the tail or filament begins as a fine-pointed projection from the opposite side of the cell, and extends rapidly as a filament, at first within the cell-wall, bulging out the wall as it increases in length, and finally breaking through its confine-