505 MEDULLA OBLONGATA. It is arranged in the form of a capsule, which is open at its upper and inner part, and has its sides corrugated or plicated, so as to give the indented appearance to a section. This capsule is, moreover, sur- rounded with white matter externally, and through its open part white fibres pass into or issue from its interior, and connect it with other parts of the brain. It contains small, round and stellate cells, lying in a gelatinous substance and among the fibres which pass through it. A separate grey lamina above it, of similar structure, has been termed the accessor// olivary nucleus. The external fibres of the anterior columns of the cord, which at the decussation of the pyramids are thrown outwards, are continued upwards, on the surface of the medulla oblongata, and then pass, partly on the outside of, and partly beneath the olivary bodies—being joined in their further progress by the fibres issuing from the olivary nucleus. To these fibres the term olivary fasciculus (fig. 35G, o) has been applied. The restiform bodies (figs. 354 and 355, d), placed behind and to the outer side of the olivary bodies, are two lateral rounded eminences or columns directly continuous with the posterior, and with part of the antero-lateral columns of the cord ; they diverge slightly as they ascend, and thus occasion the greater width of the medulla at its upper part. Each of them passes into the corresponding hemisphere of the cerebellum, and constitutes its inferior peduncle. At first they are in contact with the small tracts of the medulla, named the posterior pyramids ; but higher up they become free and prominent, and assist in forming the lateral boundaries of the fourth ventricle. There is a considerable quantity of grey matter in their interior. By far the larger portion of the white substance of the restiform body consists of longitudinal fibres, which include all those belonging Fig. 355.—Yiew of the Posterior Surface of Fig. 355. the Pons Varolii, Corpora Quadrigeiiina, and Medulla Oblongata. a, a, the upper pair of corpora quadrigemina ; b, b, the infeiior ; /, /, superior peduncles of the cerebellum ; c, eminence connected with the nucleus of the hypoglossal nerve ; outside e is the external auditory nucleus ; beneath e and i, that of the vagus nerve ; d, d, restiform bodies ; p, p, posterior pyramids ; v, v, groove in the middle of the fourth ventricle, ending below in the calamus scripto- rius ; 7, 7, roots of the auditory nerves. (See also Fig. 358.) to the posterior column of the cord except the posterior median column, some de- rived from the lateral column, and also a small band from the anterior column. This last-named band runs obliquely below the olivary body, and, as was shown by Solly, connects the anterior column with the cerebellum. The posterior pyramids (fasciculi graciles) (fig. 355, p p) of the medulla oblongata, the smallest of the four pairs of columns into which it is divided, are situated one on each side of the posterior median