92 BONE. and contains, in 100 parts, 96 of fat, 1 of connective tissue, and 3 of water. In short bones, and in the cancellated ends of long bones, but especially in the cranial diploe, the bodies of the vertebrae, the sternum, and the ribs, it is red or reddish in colour, of more fluid consistence, and with very few fat-cells. That from the diploe consists of 75 parts of water and 25 of solid matters, which are chiefly albumin, fibrin, extractive and salts, with mere traces of fat. While, however, the fat- cells are scanty in the red-coloured marrow, it contains numerous roundish nucleated cells—the proper marrow cells of Kolliker. These, which in general appearance resemble the pale corpuscles of the blood, and like them exhibit amoeboid movements, are supported by a fine reticulum of connective tissue. They vary somewhat in size, and many of them present a reddish colour, resembling somewhat in appearance the nucleated primitive red corpuscles of the embryo; indeed, it is stated that ordinary red-blood corpuscles are produced from them (Neumann, Bizzozero). Other cells have occasionally been noticed containing one or more red corpuscles in their interior : whether these have been developed in situ in a manner similar to that previously described in connective tissue corpuscles of the young animal, or have been taken into the interior of an amoeboid cell, there to be transformed into pigment granules, is not certainly known. Cells containing reddish pigment granules are, however, not uncommon. In addition to these smaller cells, and larger ones which resemble connective tissue-corpuscles, there occur in the marrow, especially in the neighbourhood of the osseous substance, large multi-nucleated protoplasmic masses (myelo- plaques, Robin), which, as pointed out by Kolliker, appear to be more especially concerned with the process of absorption of bone, under which they will consequently be described. Blood-vessels.—The bones are well supplied with blood-vessels. A network of periosteal vessels covers their outward surface ; others pene- trate to the cavities of the spongy part and the medullary canal, on the sides of which they ramify; and fine vessels, deprived of their muscular coat, run through all parts of the compact tissue in the Haversian canals. The sides of these internal cavities and canals make up together a large extent of inward surface on which vessels are spread. The nutritious fluid conveyed by these vessels no doubt escapes through their coats and permeates the surrounding dense bone interposed between the vascular canals, and it seems highly probable that the system of lacuna) and communicating canaliculi, already described, is a provision for conducting the exuded fluid through the hard mass. When a bone is macerated, its vessels and membranes are destroyed, whilst the inter- mediate true bony matter, being of an incorruptible and persistent nature, remains; a process which, for obvious reasons, cannot be effected with the soft tissues of the body. The vessels of bone may be recognised while it is yet fresh by the colour of the blood contained in them ; but the vascularity of the tissue is rendered much more conspicuous by injecting a limb with size and vermilion, depriving the bones of their earth by means of an acid, and then drying them and putting them into oil of turpentine, by which process the osseous tissue is rendered transparent whilst the injected matter in the vessels retains its red colour and opacity. Numberless small vessels derived from the periosteum, as already mentioned, pass along the Haversian canals