84 BONE. The cancellated texture has essentially the same lamellar structure. The slender bony walls of its little cavities or areolae are made up of superimposed lamellae, like those of the Haversian canals (fig. 48 b, V), only they have fewer lamellae in proportion to the width of the cavities which they surround • and, indeed, the relative amount of solid matter and open space constitutes, as already said, the only difference between the two forms of bony tissue ; the intimate structure of the solid sub- stance and the manner of its disposition round the cavities being essentially the same in both. Besides the openings of Haversian canals as above described, a trans- verse section of the compact bone now and then presents vacuities or spaces formed by absorption of the tissue. These are named " Haversian spaces " by Tomes and De Morgan, who first showed that they occur not only in growing bone but at all periods of life. In their primitive condition these cavities are characterised by an irregular or eroded outline, and their formation by absorption is further indicated by their encroaching on the adjacent groups of concentric lamellae, which have been, as it were, eaten away to a greater or less extent to give place to the new cavity. In another stage the spaces in question are lined by new-formed lamellae, which may as yet be confined to the peripheral part of the vacuity, or may fill it up in a concentric series, leaving a Haversian aperture in the middle, and in fact, constituting a system of concentric Haversian lamellae, interpolated or intruded among those pre- viously existing. The concentric lamellae, which thus come to occupy a greater or less extent of the area of the cavity, are of course bounded: exteriorly by segments of adjoining sets of Haversian lamellae, which have been more or less cut in upon in the excavation of the space. It has been further observed by Tomes and De Morgan, that vacuities may sometimes be seen which are being filled up at one part by the deposition of lamellae, whilst they are extending themselves by absorp- tion at another. The Haversian spaces are most numerous in young and growing bones ; but, as already stated, they occur also after growth is- completed. Their origin and changes will be better understood after the reader has perused the account of the growth and development of bone, to which head, indeed, the subject more properly belongs, although it has seemed expedient to introduce it here. Ail over the section numerous little dark specks are seen among the lamellae. These were named the " osseous corpuscles ;" but as it is now known that they are in reality minute cavities existing in the bony sub- stance, the name of lacunae has since been more fittingly applied to them. To see the lacunae properly, however, sections of nnsoftened bones must be prepared and ground very thin, and a magnifying power of from 200 to 300 must be employed". Such a section, viewed with transmitted light, has the appearance represented in fig. 49. The openings of the Haversian canals are seen with their encircling lamellae, and among these the corpuscles or lacunae, which are mostly ranged in a corresponding order, appear as black or dark brown and nearly opaque oblong spots, with fine dark lines extending from them and causing them to look not unlike little black insects ; but when the same section is seen against dark ground, with the light falling on it (as we usually view an opaque object), the little bodies and lines appear quite white, like figures drawn with chalk on a slate, and the inter- mediate substance, being transparent, now appears dark.