114 MUSCULAR TISSUE. Since, however, the rods are enclosed in anisotropous substance then isotropous character is not apparent in the ordinary condition of the fibre, but the appear- ances observable in the contraction of muscle under polarized light lead to the above conclusion. Briicke (from the appearance of dead muscular fibre in polarized light) described the dark stripes as being anisotropous, the light isotropous, and he has been followed in this by most subsequent writers on the subject. The fact has, how- ever, been almost entirely overlooked that, as Briicke himself pointed out, in living muscle at rest, the whole of the muscular substance appears doubly refract- ing ; and it is only in contraction that the alternate stripes appear singly refracting. On theoretical grounds the doubly refracting parts of a muscular fibre have been conceived by Briicke to be made up of an aggregation of minute doubly refracting particles, termed by him disdiaclasts. But, while the doubly refracting property is no doubt dependent upon the ultimate molecular constitution of the substance possessing it, it is by no means proved that this is represented by particles other than the molecules of which that substance is composed. Changes which the muscular elements underg-o in contraction.—When a portion of the still living muscular tissue of the water-beetle is observed under the microscope, contractions may be seen passing in waves along the fibres from end to end, and with care the following changes may be made out. That part of a fibre which is undergoing contraction becomes shorter and thicker, in all probability by the contraction of the protoplasmic ground-substance ; the rows of muscle-rods appear at the same time to get pressed down the one upon the other, so that the previously double row of rod-heads in the middle of each bright stripe, first becomes blended into one and then approximated to the neighbouring rows, the heads of the muscle-rods being en- Fig. 71. larged, and their shafts encroached -mmm I upon. Now since it has been shown that i ; 1 i l ' ''I the bright bands are dependent on the diffraction of the lines of rod-heads, it is easy to understand that they ^ will, accompanying these, encroach ''fri'lMft^ I r on and eventually replace the dim stripe in which the shafts of the rods bLj lic- So that when the Portion of muscle is fully contracted (fig. 71, c) "MWMimSaa^ ) the ^selj approximated dark striP,s which are observed are in reality due mmmm^\mmm%\ \ to the enlarged rod-heads which have more or less blended with one another; while the bright effect, which is produced by reflection of light from the surface of the disks thus formed, .tfc \ tends to obscure the attenuated shafts.* When a contracted fibre is viewed Kg. 71.—Diagram op Contraction op under polarized light the dark bands Muscle. (which are formed in this case, as just r, portion at rest; p, portion in which explained, by the coalesced rod-heads) contraction is proceeding ; c, contracted por- refract the light singly so that we now tion ; d r, dark stripe of muscle at rest; d c, get dark and light bands crossing the dark stripe of contracted muscle formed by fibre ; it is possible that the alter- apposition of the enlarged rod-heads. nations of doubly and singly re- fracting parts, which are commonly observed in preserved specimens of muscle, may be due to the presence of a condition similar to that here described. * It will be seen, therefore, that in the process of contraction the relative position of the light and dark parts of the fibre becomes altered, so that the stripe which was previously dim is now bright.