NERVOUS TISSUE. 160 met with in conjunction with lecithin. Other substances which are found in analyses of the nervous tissues are:— Cholesterin (C26 H440) which was long considered to be a fatty body, but is probably more allied to the alcohols. It crystallizes in pearly scales which are tinged blue by treatment with sulphuric acid and iodine. Extractive matters.—These probably belong chiefly to the inter- stitial fluid ; but, however this may be, they may be held to represent the products of decomposition of the nervous substance. The following have been recognised :— 1. Lactic, formic, acetic, and (traces of) uric acid. 2. Inosit. 3. Krcatin. 4. Hypoxanthin. 5. Leucin (in the ox). Certain albuminoid substances are also obtained from nervous tissue : they are probably in great part derived from the nerve-cells and axial fibres. With regard to the reaction of nerve, the same law is said to prevail as in muscle—namely, that the substance of nerves in the living but quiescent state is neutral, but becomes acid after death or prolonged excitement (Funke). The saline or inorganic matters found by incineration are—plwsphoric acid, plws- jphates of alkalies, which, as in muscle, largely predominate over other salts,potash, as a base, largely exceeding soda; earthy phosphates, in smaller proportion, magnesia prevailing over lime ; phosphate of iron ; chloride of sodium ; sulphate of potash ; and a trace of silica. The white substance contains nearly 75 per cent, of water ; the grey about 85 ; the proportion of water is less in the spinal cord, and still less in the nerves. The fatty matters amount in the grey substance to nearly 5 and in the white to nearly 15 per cent. ; in the nerves the proportion fluctuates largely. It is worthy of note that the brain, during embryonic and infantile life, contains much less fatty matter and more water ; moreover, the grey and the white matter do not present the same differences as in after life in the proportions of water and fatty sub- stance which they respectively contain. The brain of embryos of from ten to twenty-two weeks has been found to yield only from 0'99 to 1*5 per cent, of fatty substance ; that of the full-grown foetus from 3 to 4 per cent. VITAL PROPERTIES. The fibres of nerves are endowed with the property of transmitting impressions, or, rather impulses, the effect of impressions, from the point stimulated towards their central or their peripheral extremities. Certain fibres are employed to conduct towards the nervous centres and are named " afferent," others to conduct towards their distal extremities, which are distributed in moving parts, and these fibres are named " efferent." The greater number of nerves possess both afferent and efferent fibres, and are named compound or moto-sensory, inasmuch as they minister both to sensation and motion. In such compound nerves the two kinds of fibres are mixed together and bound up in the same sheaths ; but in the most numerous and best-known examples of this class, the afferent and efferent fibres, though mixed in the trunk and branches of the nerves, are separated at their roots. This is the case in the spinal nerves : these have two roots, an anterior and posterior, both for the most part consisting of many funiculi, and the posterior passing through a ganglion with which the fibres of the anterior root have no connection. Now it has been ascertained by appropriate expe- riments on animals, that the anterior root is efferent and contains the motor fibres, and that the posterior is afferent and contains the sensory fibres. The fifth pair of cranial nerves has a sensory root furnished