NUTRITION OF THE TEXTURES. 16 NUTRITION AND REGENERATION OP THE TEXTURES. Nutrition.—The tissues and organs of the animal body, "when once employed in the exercise of their functions, are subject to continual loss of material, which is restored by nutrition. This waste or con- sumption of matter, with which, so to speak, the use of a part is attended, takes place in different modes and degrees in different struc- tures. In the cuticular textures the old substance simply wears away, or is thrown off at the surface, whilst fresh material is added from below. In muscular texture, on the other hand, the process is a chemical or chemico-vital one ; the functional action of muscle is attended with an expenditure of moving force, and a portion of matter derived in part from the muscle itself is consumed in the production of that force; that is, it undergoes a chemical change, and being by this alteration rendered unfit to serve again is removed by absorption. The amount of matter changed in a given time, or, in other words, the rapidity of the nutritive process, is much greater in those instances where there is a production and expenditure of force, than where the tissue serves merely passive mechanical purposes. Hence, the bones, tendons, and ligaments are much less wasted in exhausting diseases than the muscles, or than the fat, which is consumed in respiration, and generates heat. Up to a certain period, the addition of new matter exceeds the amount of waste, and the whole body, as well as its several parts, augments in size and weight: this is" growth." When maturity is attained, the supply of material merely balances the consumption ; and, after this, no steady increase takes place, although the quantity of some matters in the body, especially the fat, is subject to consider- able fluctuation at all periods of life. It would be foreign to our purpose to enter on the subject of nutrition in general; we may, however, briefly consider the mode in which the renovation of substance is conceived to be carried on in the tissues. The material of nutrition is immediately derived from the plasma of the blood, or liquor sanguinis, which is conveyed by the blood-vessels, and transudes through the coats of their capillary branches ; and it is in all cases a necessary condition that this matter should be brought within reach of the spot where nutrition goes on, although, as will immediately be explained, it is not essential for this purpose that the vessels should actually pass into the tissue. In certain instances, more- over, the pale corpuscles, which exist in the blood, pass through the coats of the vessels, and may become employed as elements of nutrition and reparation. In cuticle and epithelium, the nutritive change is effected by a continuance of the process to which these textures owe their origin. The tissues in question being devoid of vessels, nutrient matter is furnished by the vessels of the true skin, or subjacent vascular membrane, and is appropriated by young cells, derived most probably from pre-existing ones. These new cells enlarge, alter in figure, often also in chemical nature, and, after serving for a time as part of the tissue, are thrown off at its free surface. But it cannot in all cases be so clearly shown that nutrition takes place by a continual formation and decay of the structural elements of the tissue ; and it must not be forgotten, that there is another con-