CHEMICAL COMPOSITION. 3! oxygen through the liquid. Its precipitate is distinguished from that of other albuminoids by being always in form of fine granules or molecules. But the most important and distinctive character of para- globulin is its fibrino-plastic property, already referred to, by which it co-operates with fibrinogen in producing solid fibrin; this property is destroyed by exposure of the solution to a boiling heat. Paraglobulin is almost identical in chemical nature and composition with the substance which composes the crystalline lens, and which was named by Berzelius globulin. The latter substance, however, besides exhibiting minor differences, does not possess the fibrino-plastic power ; they have therefore been separately distin- guished by Kuhne. Like hssmoglobin, paraglobulin is diffusible through animal membranes, not through vegetable parchment. Fibrinogen, on the other hand, is totally indiffusible. Both paraglobulin and fibrinogen may be precipitated from then* solutions by the addition of common salt to saturation. A substance similar to myosin has also been described as occurring in blood- serum (Heynsius). Fatty Compounds.—A small amount of fat is contained in the serum, partly dissolved, and partly diffused in the liquid. It may be separated by gently agitating the serum with about a third of its bulk of ether, or by evaporating the serum and digesting the dry residue in ether, or in boiling alcohol. The turbid milky aspect which serum often exhibits, is in most cases due to a redundance of fat, and may accordingly be removed by agitation with ether. Extractive Matters.—When the serum has been freed from albu- minous matter by coagulation, and from fat by ether, and is evaporated to dryness, a yellowish or brown mass remains, consisting of organic matters mixed with salts ; the former belonging principally to the ill- defined class of substances denominated " extractive matters." These have now been more carefully sifted, and have yielded several definite and recognisable bodies, generated in the natural process of decomposi- tion of the tissues, or residual matters of nutrition formed in the blood itself, and on their way to be excreted by the kidneys. Several of the substances to be next mentioned belong to this class, and as they are obviously excrementitial and transitory ingredients, they are not allowed to gather in any notable quantity in the healthy state of the economy. Creatin and Creatinin.—Products of the natural "wear" of the muscles, or derived from fleshy food. These compounds, which are found in muscular substances and in the urine, together with hypox- antki7i (also named sarlcin), obtainable from the same sources, have been stated to exist in excessively small quantities in the blood. Urea.—This substance, which accumulates in the blood of animals after extirpation of the kidneys or ligature of the renal arteries, as well as in certain diseases, has been found in very minute quantity in the healthy blood of the ox and of the calf, by Marchand and Simon, and in that of man, by Lehmann, Garrod, and others. It is, however, in such excessively small quantity, that its estimation is attended with great difficulty. Uric Acid has been shown to exist in healthy blood by Garrod, and in that of persons suffering from gout it is in such considerable quantity as to be readily detected. In health its proportion is extremely small. Hipparic Acid is found in the blood of herbivora, and, according to some observers, in that of man. There is, however, much doubt upon this point.