THE BLOOD. 26 NlS4, Fe2, S6, 0354. It may be obtained in quantity and tolerably pure by the following method (Preyer) : Blood (preferably from a dog) is drawn into a capsule, and the serum allowed to separate. The clot is then taken, and after being quickly minced, is thrown upon a filter, and washed with ice-cold distilled water until the washings yield but little precipitate with perchloride of mercury. By this process the serum, with the albumin it contains, is in great part removed, the cold water taking up but little of the hsemoglobin. The latter is then dissolved out by warm water, and an amount of alcohol, just insufficient to cause its precipitation, is added to the solution. On placing this in a freezing mixture, a large part of the haemo- globin crystallizes out. The crystals of haemoglobin present various forms in different animals, but almost all (the hexagonal plates of the squirrel alone being excepted) belong to the rhombic system. From human blood and that of most mam- mals, the crystals are elongated prisms (fig. 14,1), but tetrahe- drons in the guinea-pig (2), and short rhombohedrons in the hamster (4). They are most readily obtained for mi- croscopical examination from the blood of the rat, where they appear merely on the addition of a little water. All haemoglobin crystals con- tain a certain amount of water of crystallization (Kiihne). They are doubly refracting (anisotropous), and the spec- trum of haemoglobin, whether in substance or in solution, may be always readily recog- nised by the double or single 1, from human blood ; 2, from the guinea- , , .J . , , . , b pig; 3, squirrel; 4, hamster. absorption bands, which are produced according as it is present in the oxidated or deoxidated condition.* Products of Decomposition of Haemoglobin.—Haemoglobin is an exceed- ingly unstable body. Even at the ordinary temperature the crystals cannot long be preserved without undergoing alteration, the substance of which they are composed readily decomposing into an exceedingly pure (ash-free) albuminoid substance, named by Preyer globin, and a brownish-red powder, very nearly allied to hEemoglobin in chemical composition (hence termed methcenwglobin), but differing from that body both in its general reactions and in the character of its spectrum. Another brownish-red substance, which contains all* the iron of haemoglobin, and was long supposed to be the true colouring * For an account of the examination of the colouring matter of the blood by the prism, and of the differences in its absorptive effect on light, the reader is referred to an im- portant paper by Professor Gr. Gr. Stokes, in the Proceedings of the Koyal Society for June 16, 1864, vol. xiii. p. 355, as well as to an exhaustive treatise on the whole subject of hgemoglobin, by W. Preyer (Die Blutkrystalle, Jena, 1871). Fig. 14. Fig. 14.—Blood-Crystals, magnified.