THE EYE. C20 humour, made transversely to the axis of the eyeball (fig.430), but whether there is any pre-existent structure to account for the appearance is not known. It is conceivable that these appearances may be merely produced by the manner in which the albuminous substance has undergone coagulation by the reagent employed. However this may be, there exists, nearly but not quite in the axis of the eye, a definite struc- ture in the shape of a distinct canal, about a line in diameter, rilled with fluid and extending from the pcqnlla optici to the back of the lens cap- sule where it apparently terminates blindly. This is the canalis hyaloidens or canal of Stilling. It is best shown in the fresh eye, and may be also injected by forcing a coloured solution under the pia-matral sheath of the optic nerve (Schwalbe). The canal widens somewhat towards its posterior part: its wall is composed of an excessively deli- cate homogeneous membrane. Scattered about throughout the substance of the vitreous humour are a variable number of corpuscles, for the most part capable of exhibiting amoeboid movement and many of them apparently of the nature of white blood corpuscles. Some of the cells here met with are remarkable for the very large vacuoles which they contain, and which distend the body of the corpuscle, pushing the nucleus to one side ; the cell processes are for the most part peculiar in possessing numerous little secondary bud-like swellings, or they may present a varicose ap- pearance, like strings of pearls. Similar bodies are also found floating free in the vitreous humour. Iwanhoff further describes other cells, especially frequent near the periphery, of a stellate and spindle-shaped form and possessing similar processes. The fluid collected from the vitreous humour consists chiefly of water; it contains, however, some salts with a little albumen, in the form of an albuminate of soda, and, in the human eye, also traces of mucin. The hyaloid membrane invests, as before mentioned, the whole of the vitreous humour, except in front, where the membrane passes forwards to the anterior part of the margin of the lens, becoming also firmer in consistence and distinctly fibrous in structure. This portion of the hyaloid is known as the zonula of Zinn, and the suspensory liga- ment of the lens (fig. 431, z, 11). The posterior part, or hyaloid proper, is exceedingly thin and delicate, and is readily thrown into folds when detached. Under the microscope it presents no appearance of struc- ture : but, flattened against its inner surface are generally to be seen a number of granular nucleated corpuscles, which exhibit amoeboid movements : they appear to be merely migrated white blood corpuscles. The ciliary part or zonula, on the other hand, presents radiating meridional fibres, stiff in appearance, and apparently intermediate in character between elastic and white fibres of connective tissue; they commence generally about opposite the ora serrata, and confer con- siderable stoutness upon this portion of the hyaloid membrane, which here, as its name implies, assists in supporting the lens, to the capsule of which it is anteriorly firmly attached. Moreover, this part of the Fig. 430. Fig. 430. —Transverse Section of Human Eye, hardened in Chromic Acid, show- ing Radial Stri- ation of the Vit- reous Body (after Hannover).