CONSTRUCTION OF SECRETING GLANDS. 237 form of loops; in the kidney, little round tufts of fine blood-vessels project into terminal or lateral dilatations of the ducts, but without opening into them. The human liver does not precisely agree in structure with either of the above classes of compound glands. Its ducts, which are neither coiled nor sacculated, would seem to begin within its lobules, in form of a network of excessively fine channels which run between the sides of contiguous polyhedral cells, and these occupy the interstices of the reticular capillary blood-vessels, which also are peculiar, inasmuch as they receive and transmit venous blood. Besides blood-vessels, the glands are furnished with lymphatics, which in some compound glands proceed from interstitial lymphatic spaces within, as already stated (p. 185). Branches of nerves have also been followed, for some way, into these organs, and the well-known fact, that the flow of secretion in several'glands is affected by mental emotions, shows that an influence is exerted on secreting organs through the medium of the nervous system ; and this is further shown by the fact that an increased flow may be brought on by direct or reflex stimulation of their nerves. Moreover, fine non-medullated nervous fibres have in several instances been described as forming a network between the alveolar cells; and in the salivary glands, Pfluger has affirmed a direct passage of nerve-fibres, both medullated and non-medullated, into the secreting cells : his ob- servations, however, have not been corroborated by other inquirers. From what has been stated, it will be apparent that the substance of a gland consists of the ducts, blood-vessels, lymph-vessels and lacuna?, and a few nerves, in some cases connected by an intervening tissue. In the testicle there is a very small amount of intermediate connective tissue, which, with the aid of the blood-vessels, holds the tubules but feebly together, so that the structure is comparatively loose, and readily admits of being teazed out; but then it is sufficiently protected and supported by a fibrous capsule on the outside, and fibrous septa within the gland. In the racemose glands there is a good deal of uniting connective tissue, which surrounds collectively each group of saccules, binds together the lobules, and supports the vessels in their ramifica- tions. The substance of the kidney contains scarcely any well-cha- racterised fibrous connective tissue, except bundles which here and there accompany the larger branches of vessels, but there is an abun- dant, though very delicate, network of retiform tissue in a soft amor- phous matter between the tubules and blood-vessels, which binds them together. Parenchyma is a term sometimes employed in describing glandular organs, though it is less in use now than formerly. It is used some- times to denote the solid part of a gland composed of the various tissues already mentioned; at other times to signify any substance, of whatever nature, lying between the ducts, vessels, and nerves. In this last sense the parenchyma is in certain glands represented by connec- tive tissue, in others by corpuscles and amorphous matter, whilst in some it can scarcely be said to exist. Some glands have a special envelope, as in the case of the kidney and testicle; others, as the pancreas, have none. The ducts of glands ultimately open into cavities lined by mucous membrane, or upon the surface of the skin. They are sometimes provided with a reservoir, in which the secretion is collected, to be