621 THE VITREOUS BODY. hyaloid, being opposite to the ciliary processes, differs from the rest in the fact that instead of presenting a smooth and even surface, it exhibits, when separated, small, regular folds—processus ciliares zonula—~ Fig. 431. Fig. 431.—Sectional view op the Connections op the Cornea, Sclerotic, Iris, Ciliary Muscle, Ciliary Processes, Hyaloid Membrane and Lens, f The specimen extends from the middle of the lens to the ora serrata on the inner side of the right eye. C, cornea ; cs, conjunctiva ; ce, epithelium of the conjunctiva ; elp, posterior elastic layer ; le, ligamentum pectinatum iridis ; S, sclerotic ; A, the aqueous chamber; ap, the recess forming the posterior division of the aqueous chamber; SV, canal of Schlemm ; ir, radiating muscle of the iris ; io, divided fibres of the sphincter muscle ; xi, pigment layer or uvea ; In, centre of the crystalline lens ; Ic, capsule of the lens ; Ice, layer of cells in front of the lens ; cir, radiating ciliary muscle ; tio, divided annular fibres ; tip, ciliary process ; Ch, choroid ; II, retina ; o, ora serrata ; rc, the ciliary part of the retina ; h, hyaloid membrane ; P, canal of Petit; Z, zonule of Zinn; 11, suspensory ligament of the lens proceeding from the hyaloid covering the ciliary process towards the front of the capsule of the lens ; am, anterior margin of the vitreous humour, V. (in the intervals of which a small amount of pigment commonly remains attached): these fit closely into the intervals between the true ciliary pro- cesses. Between the last named and the lens the ligament is free from plaits, and forms part of the posterior boundary of the aqueous chamber. Its posterior surface is turned towards the vitreous humour, but is sepa- rated from the latter near the lens by a zonular space, triangular in section, named the canal of Petit (fig. 431, p). During life, in all probability, the vitreous humour extends into and almost or entirely occupies this space ; but after death it may be injected with fluid or distended with air : if this be done after removal of the anterior parts which support and enclose it, the folds of the suspensory ligament on its front are distended, and the canal presents a sacculated appearance, as in fig. 432.