Mi THE TESTICLES AND ACCESSOEY STRUCTURES. membranes in general, of which it presents one of the simplest forms, it may be described as consisting of a visceral and a parietal portion. The visceral portion, tunica vaginalis testis, closely invests the greater part of the body of the testis, as well as the epididymis, between which parts it is depressed in the form of a pouch (digital fossa), and lines their contiguous surfaces, and it adheres intimately to the proper fibrous tunic of the gland. Along the posterior border of the gland, where the vessels and ducts enter or pass out, the serous coat, having been re- flected, is wanting. This portion of the serous covering frequently pre- sents villous prolongations on the borders of the epididymis and upper end of the testis; these processes, sometimes of considerable length, are covered in some places with cylindrical, in others with layers of flat epithelium (Luschka, in Yirchow's Archiv, Vol. VL, p. 321, and La Valette St. George, in Strieker's Handbuch, p. 523). The parietal or scrotal portion of the tunica vaginalis is more exten- sive than that which covers the body of the testis ; it reaches upwards, sometimes for a considerable distance, upon the spermatic cord, extend- ing somewhat higher on the inner than on the outer side. It also reaches downwards below the testicle, which, therefore, appears to be suspended at the back of the serous sac, when this latter is distended with fluid; a fold, or so-called ligament, being left projecting at the lower end of the epididymis. Vessels and nerves of the scrotum and spermatic cord. —The arteries are derived from several sources. Thus, the two ex- ternal pudic arteries, branches of the femoral, reach the front and sides of the scrotum, supplying the integument and dartos; the superficial perineal branch of the internal pudic artery is distributed to the back part of the scrotum ; and, lastly, more deeply seated than either of these is a branch given from the epigastric artery, named cremasteric, which is chiefly distributed to the cremaster muscle, but also supplies small branches to the other coverings of the cord, and by its ultimate divisions anastomoses with the other vessels. The artery of the vas deferens, a long slender vessel derived from the superior vesical, accompanies the tube in its whole length. The veins, which, from the thinness of the integuments, are apparent on the surface of the scrotum, follow the course of the arteries. The veins of the cord form the spermatic or pampiniform plexus elsewhere described. The lymphatics pass into the inguinal lymphatic glands. The nerves also proceed from various sources. Thus, the ilio- inguinal, a branch of the lumbar plexus issuing by the external abdo- minal ring, supplies the integuments of the scrotum; this nerve is joined also by a filament from the ilio-hypogastric branch of the same plexus : sometimes two separate cutaneous nerves come forward through the external ring. The two superficial perineal branches of the internal pudic nerve accompany the artery of the same name and supply the inferior and posterior parts of the scrotum. The inferior pudendal, a branch of the small sciatic nerve, joins with the perineal nerves, and with them is distributed to the sides and fore part of the scrotum. Lastly, the spermatic branch of the genito-crural nerve reaching the spermatic cord at the internal abdominal ring, passes with it through the inguinal canal, and supplies the fibres of the cremaster muscle, besides sending a few filaments to the other deep coverings of the cord and testicle.