STRUCTURE OF THE (ESOPHAGUS 345 Fig. 242. with those of the lateral bundles to form a continuous layer around the tube. The internal or circular fibres are separated above by the fibres of the lateral longitudinal fasciculi from those of the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. The rings which they form around the tube have a horizontal direction at the upper and lower part of the oesophagus, but in the intervening- space are slightly oblique. At the lower end of the oesophagus, both layers of fibres become continuous with those of the stomach. The muscular coat of the upper end of the oesophagus is of a well- marked red colour, and consists wholly of striped muscular fibres; but lower down, where it becomes somewhat paler, these are gradually replaced by plain muscular fibres, which form almost the whole of the lower half. A few striped fibres, however, are found mixed with the others throughout its whole length, and even, it is said, on the cardiac end of the stomach (Ficinus). The longitudinal fibres of the oeso- phagus are observed by Hyrtl to be sometimes joined by a broad band of smooth muscle, passing upwards from the left pleura, and sometimes also by another from the left bronchus. The areolar or submucous coat is placed between the muscular and mucous coats, and connects them loosely together. It exceeds the mucous membrane considerably in thickness, and in it are contained the glands (fig. 242), which open on the mucous membrane. The mucous membrane is of firm texture, and is paler in colour than that of the pharynx or stomach. From its loose connections its outer surface is freely movable on the muscular tunic ; and when the latter is contracted, as happens when the oesophagus is not giving passage to food, the mucous lining is thrown into longitudinal folds, which are in mutual contact. These folds disappear again on distension of the canal. Minute papillae (/) are seen upon f he mucous membrane, and the whole is covered with a thick stratified scaly epithelium, which can be traced as far as the cardiac orifice of the stomach, where it suddenly passes into one of a different character, as will be hereafter noticed. The small compound racemose glands, named oesophageal glands, which are for the most part situate as before stated in the submucous Fig. 242.—Section op the Coats of the Human (Esophagus, 50 Diameters Kolliker). The section is transverse, and from near the middle of the gullet, a, fibrous cover- ing ; b, divided fibres of the longitudinal muscular coat ; c, transverse muscular fibres ; d, submucous or areolar layer ; /, papillse of mucous membrane ; g, lami- nated epithelial lining ; h, opening of a mucous gland, of which the saccular part is seen imbedded in the submucous tissue ; i, fat vesicles.