THE MAMMARY GLANDS. 468 MAMMARY GLANDS. The mammary glands (mammas), which yield the milk in the female, are accessory parts to the reproductive system. They give a name to a large class of animals (Mammalia), which are distinguished by the pos- session of these organs. When fully developed in the human female, they form, together with the integuments and a considerable quantity of fat, two'rounded eminences (the breasts) placed one at each side on the front of the thorax. These extend from the third to the sixth or seventh rib, and from the side of the sternum to the axilla. A little below the centre of each breast, on a level with the fourth rib, or a little lower, projects a small conical body named the nipple (mammilla), which points somewhat outwards and upwards. The surface of the nipple is dark, and around it there is a coloured circle or areola, within which the skin is also of a darker tinge than elsewhere. In the virgin, these parts are of a rosy pink colour, differing somewhat according to the complexion of the individual, and they are always darker in women who have borne children. Even in the second month of the first preg- nancy, the areola begins to enlarge and acquire a darker tinge ; these changes go on increasing as gestation advances, and are regarded as signs to be relied on in judging of suspected pregnancy. After lactation is over, the dark colour subsides, but never entirely disappears. The skin of the nipple is marked with many wrinkles, and is covered with papillae; besides this, it is perforated at the tip by numerous foramina, which are the openings of the lactiferous ducts : and near its base, as well as upon the surface of the areola, there are scattered rounded ele- vations, which are caused by the presence of little glands with branched ducts, four or five of which open on each elevation. The tissue of the nipple contains a large number of vessels, together with much plain muscular tissue, and its papillae are highly sensitive ; it becomes firmer and more projecting from mechanical excitement,—a change mainly caused by contraction of the muscular fibres, which form concentric circles round the base, and some radiating bands running from base to apex of the nipple. The base of the mammary gland is somewhat oval, flattened, or slightly concave, and has its longest diameter directed upwards and outwards towards the axilla. The gland lies in connective tissue con- tinuous with the superficial fascia, its base resting on the pectoral muscle, and separated from it by a layer of firm areolar tissue con- tinuous with the deep fascia. The thickest part of the gland is near the centre, opposite the nipple. On the surface, and penetrating also between the lobes, there is a large quantity of fat, which mainly gives the full and smoothly rounded form to the gland. This fat is of a firm consistence and bright yellow colour, and is subdivided into lobules by partitions of connective tissue. It is entirely absent from the nipple and areola. STRUCTURE OF THE MAMMA. The glandular substance of the mamma consists of numerous distinct lobes held together by firm intervening fibrous or areolar tissue, and