311 STRUCTURE OF THE ENAMEL. 212. Pi i The enamel is that hard white covering which encrusts and pro- tects the exposed portion or crown of a tooth. It is the hardest of all the dental tissues, but is gradually worn down by protracted use. It is thickest on the grinding surface and cutting edge of the teeth, and becomes gradually thinner towards the neck, where it ceases. Its extent and thickness are readily seen on charring the tooth, by which the dentine becomes blackened, whilst the enamel, owing to the very small quantity of animal matter in its composition, remains white. According to Bibra it contains of earthy constituents 96*5 per cent., viz., phosphate of lime with traces of fluoride of calcium 89*8, carbonate of lime 4*4, phosphate of magnesia and other salts 1*3 ; and of animal matter only 3*5 per cent. Berzelius, however, gives the proportion of carbonate of lime as 8, and of animal matter as only 2 per cent. The enamel is made up entirely of very hard and dense microscopic fibres or prisms, ar- ranged closely together, side by side, and set by one extremity upon the subjacent surface of the dentine (fig. 212). The fibres are disposed in ranges which are set vertically on the grinding surface, but on the sides of the crown get more and more horizontal. Near the dentine the fibres cross one another in the alternate ranges, but become more parallel as they approach the surface of the tooth ; from this intercrossing the ranges appear on a section as alternate light and dark stripes passing through the enamel from its inner to its outer surface (as in figs. 201 and 210). This is no doubt owing to the manner in which the different strata affect the light. A series of concentric lines is likewise to be seen crossing the enamel fibres : these are termed coloured lines from their brown appearance, but whether caused by pigmentary deposit or otherwise is unascertained. Minute fissures not unfrequently exist in the deep part of the enamel, which run between clusters of the fibres down to the surface of the dentine (fig. 212, c) ; and other much larger and more evident fissures are often observed leading- down from the depressions or crevices between the cusps of the molar and premolar teeth. The unworn surface of the enamel is marked by concentric ridges, which may be distin- guished with a common magnifying glass. The enamel-fibres (fig. 213) have the form of solid six-sided prisms. Their diameter is ordinarily about j-g^th of an inch. They are marked at small intervals by dark transverse lines. The inner ends of the prisms are implanted in minute hexagonal depressions found on the surface of the dentine ; whilst the outer ends, somewhat larger in diameter, are free, and Fi 212.-—Thin Section of the Enamel and a Part op the Dentine (from Kolliker). 350 Diameters. a, cuticular pellicle of the enamel ; h, enamel- fibres or columns with fissures between them and cross strife; c, clefts in the enamel communicating with the extremities of some of the tubuli (d).