DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEETH. 21-5 the future tooth-crown. It is received into a corresponding dimple of the enamel-germ, which now comes to resemble in form an inverted cup, and fits upon the papilla (fig. 214, B,/'). Goodsir described the process somewhat differently. According to his account the papillae first appear in the bottom of the undivided groove, and separate loculi are then formed for them by partitions which grow across its deeper part. They thus become lodged in pits which are partitioned off at the bottom of the original groove, and this condition was termed by him the follicular stage. It is represented in fig. 216, and in diagrammatic section in fig. 215, Nos. 3 and 4. According to the same observer, the order in which the papillae appear is very regular. That of the anterior milk molar is the first (7th week) ; that of the canine next (8th week) ; the incisor papillae next (9th week), the central before the lateral1; and that of the posterior milk molar last (10th week). The several papillae of the upper jaw appear a little earlier than the corresponding ones of the lower. The groove is said to become separated by partitions in corresponding order, and the follicular stage to be completed by the 14th week. The open pits are next closed, and the included enamel-germ cut ofT from connec- tion with the superjacent epithelium, and finally the sides of the groove Fig. 215. Fig. 215.—Diagrammatic Outlines of Sections through the Dental Germs and Sacs, at Different Stages of Development (from Goodsir). 1, the primitive dental groove of the lower jaw cut across in a foetus of about six weeks ; 2, a papilla rising within the dental groove ; 3, 4, and 5, represent the folli- cular stage in which the papilla is seen sunk within the follicle, and the lips of the follicle (opercula) advancing towards each other, gradually meet and close in the follicle ; 5, may be looked upon as representing the section indicated by the line a b, in fig. 216, through the sac of an incisor tooth, in which a lunated depression (c) is left behind ; in 6, the sides of the groove are seen to close ; in 7, the union of the lips being complete, the follicle becomes a closed sac s, containing the dental pulp p, and having behind it the lunated depression c, now also enclosed, and forming the cavity of reserve for the germ of the corresponding permanent tooth ; in the remaining outlines, 8 to 12, are shown the commencement of the cap of dentine on the pulp, tbe subsequent steps in the formation of the milk tooth, and its eruption through the gum (11) ; also the gradual changes in the cavity of reserve, the appearance of its papilla, its closure to form the sac of the permanent tooth, its descent into the jaw, behind and below the milk tooth, and the long pedicle (12) formed by its xipper obliterated portion. The epithelium which covers the gum, and also that which occupies the dental follicles and sacs, is not represented in these diagrams. above the separate germs coalesce in its whole length—the process