THE UTERUS. 463 contact with the other pelvic viscera, some convolutions of the small intestine usually lying upon and behind it. From its two sides the peritoneum is reflected in the form of a broad duplicature, named the ligamentum latum, which, together with the parts contained within it, will be presently described. The average dimensions of the uterus are about three inches in length, two in breadth at its upper and wider part, and nearly an inch in thickness : its weight is from seven to twelve drachms. It is usually described as possessing a fundus, body, and neck. The fundus is the broad bulging upper end of the body, and projects upwards from between the points of attachment of the Fallopian tubes. The body gradually narrows as it extends from the fundus to the neck; its sides are nearly straight; its anterior and posterior surfaces are both somewhat convex, but the latter more so than the former. At the points of union of the sides with the rounded superior border are two projecting angles, with which the Fallopian tubes are connected, the round ligaments being attached a little before, and the ovarian liga- ments behind and beneath them ; these three parts are all included within the peritoneal duplicature of the broad ligaments. The neck, or cervix uteri, narrower and more rounded than the rest of the organ, is nearly an inch in length ; it is continuous above with the body, and, becoming somewhat smaller towards its lower extremity projects into the upper end of the tube of the vagina, which is united all round with the substance of the uterus, but extends upwards^ to a Fig. 330. Fig. 330.—Posterior View of the Uterus and its Appendages. The cavity of the uterus has been opened by the removal of the posterior wall, and the upper part of the vagina has been laid open ; a, fundus ; h, body ; c, cervix ; d, anterior lip of the os uteri externum ; e, the interior of the vagina; /, section of the walls of the uterus; i, opening of the Fallopian tube ; o, ovary ; p, ligament of the ovary ; r, broad ligament ; s, Fallopian tube, t, its fimbriated extremity. greater distance behind than in front. The projecting portion of the uterus is sometimes named the vaginal part. The lower end of the uterus presents a transverse aperture, by which its cavity opens into the vagina ; this is named variously os uteri, os uteri externum, and (from a supposed likeness to the mouth of the tench fish) os tincce. It is bounded by two thick lips, the posterior of which is the thinner and VOL. II. II H