THE TEETH. 318 afterwards elongates and becomes narrower, so as to serve as the basis of the fang. Sooner or later, after the completion of the crown, this part of the tooth appears through the gum, whilst the growth of dentine to complete the fang is continued at the surface of the elongating pulp, which gradually becomes encroached upon by suc- cessive formations of hard substance, until only a small cavity is left in the centre of the tooth, containing nothing but the reduced pulp, supplied by slender threads of vessels and nerves, which enter by a small aperture left at the point of the fang after the dentine is com- pleted. In the case of teeth having complex crowns and more than a single fang, the process is somewhat modified. On the surface of the dental pulp of such a tooth, as many separate caps or shells of dental substance are formed as there are eminences or points; these soon coalesce, and the formation of the tooth proceeds as before as far as the cervix. The pulp then becomes divided into two or more portions, corresponding with the future fangs, and the ossification advances in each as it does in a single fang ; while, at the same time, a horizontal projection or bridge of dentine is deposited across the base of the pulp, between the commencing fangs, so that if the tooth be removed at this stage and examined on its under surface, its shell presents as many apertures as there are separate fangs (fig. 219, o and 4). In all teeth, the pulp originally adheres by its entire base to the bottom of the sac; but, when more than one fang is to be developed, the pulp is, as it were, separated from the sac in certain parts, so that it comes to adhere at two or three insulated spots only, corresponding with the fangs, whilst the dentine continues to be formed along the surrounding free surface of the pulp. Formation of the hard tissues of the Teeth.—The account already given of the structure of the permanent pulp of a tooth will apply also to that of the papilla or formative pulp of the growing tooth, both before and after the dentine has begun to be formed from it. It may be added, however, that its capillary vessels, which form a series of loops a short distance beneath the surface, are much more abundant op- posite the point or points where cal- cification is about to commence. The dentine is produced more immediately by the elongated cells (odontoblasts) already described as forming the superficial stratum of the pulp (fig. 220, c). These cells send out from their free extremi- ties filamentous processes, as de- scribed by Lent, and the intercel- lular substance of the pulp tissue between and around these pro- cesses becomes changed into the solid matrix or intertubular substance Fig. 220. Pig. 220.—Part of Section of Develop- ing Tooth of Young Rat, Showing the Mode of Deposition of the Dentine. Highly Magnified. a, outer layer of fully formed dentine ; b, uncalcified matrix, with one or two nodules of calcareous matter near the cal- cified part ; c, odontoblasts sending pro- cesses into the dentine ; d, pulp. The sec- tion is stained with carmine, which colours the uncalcified matrix, but not the calcified part.