734 DEVELOPMENT OF THE HEAD. culse meet, and where interiorly the pituitary body, and superiorly the infundibulum are afterwards formed. The investing mass of blastema, in which the anterior extremity of the notochord is enclosed, and the notochord itself, terminate here behind the pituitary fossa, or what afterwards becomes that part, in a place corresponding to the dorsum selhe of human anatomy. Above and behind this, the middle cerebral vesicle forms the most prominent part of the cranium, which remains a charac- teristic feature of this part of the embryo head for a considerable time. Another early flexure of the cranium accompanies the development of the cerebellum from the third primary vesicle, a cleft now appearing behind and below the rudimentary cerebellum, in the region of the fourth ventricle, and above the medulla oblongata, and this flexure is necessarily attended with a convexity forwards, or another flexure in the place of the pons Varolii. Fig. 534. — Longitudinal Section op the Human Embryo at the sixth or seventh week. 1, cerebral hemispheres ; 2, vesicle of the third ven- tricle ; 3, mid-brain ; 4, cerebellum ; 5, medulla ob- longata ; ch, notochord pass- ing up through the bodies of the vertebrae into the basis cranii and terminating in the head between the in- fundibulum and the sac of the hypophysis cerebri ; s, the vertebral sjrines ; n, the spinal cord ; p, the pharynx ; Ji, the heart ; I, the liver ; i, the stomach and intestine; cl, the cloaca ; v, the urinary bladder and pedicle of the allantois ; u, u', the umbilicus containing the vitello- intestinal duct, urachus and vessels ; between i, and i, superiorly, the Wolffian body is shown. The great cranial flexure thus marks the division between the strictly basi-cranial,, or occipito-sphenoidal, and the basi-facial, or spheno- ethmoidal part, the chorda terminating between those two portions of the cranial base, with a conical and sharp point. Here the chorda is itself bent downwards and forwards, and terminates in a spot which corresponds to the post-sphenoid body, or dorsum sellae. According to Mihalkovics, who has recently investigated the subject with care*(see Archiv fur Mikroskop. Anat., vol. xi., 1875,) in con- nection with the formation of the pituitary gland in mammals and birds, the chorda tapers off to a fine point in front of this spot, but presents a slight swelling just at the place of the future occipito- sphenoidal suture. The formation of the mouth, and its opening by the fauces into the pharyngeal or first part of the primitive alimentary canal, are phenomena of development intimately connected with the formation of the central part of the cranium and sella turcica, but they are also associated with the development of the face, which is next to be considered. Formation of the Mouth and Hypophysis cerebri.—Along- with the changes which accompany the formation of the principal cranial flexure, is Fig. 534.