052 THE EAE. semicircular canals just described in consisting of a tube, lined by epithelium and containing endolymph, partly surrounded by a clear space containing perilymph, but it differs from them materially both in shape and in the modifications presented by its epithelial lining. In macerated specimens, the two parts into which the osseous tube of the cochlea is divided are, it will be remembered, only imperfectly separated by the osseous spiral lamina which projects from the columella ; but in the fresh specimen the tube is separated completely into three distinct parts by means of two membranes, which extend along its whole length (figs. 465, 466). In the first place the lamina spiralis is directly prolonged by a comparatively strong, well-marked membrane, the basilar membrane (fig. 467, b), which stretches straight across to the outer wall of the cochlea, and is here connected to an inward projection of the lining periosteum and sub-periosteal tissue known as the spiral ligament (Isp). The basilar membrane thus helps to complete the upper* limit of the scala tympani (ST), but does not enter into the lower boundary of the scala vestibuli, for a second, much more delicate membrane, known as the membrane of Eeissner (R) passes from the upper part of the lamina a little distance from its end, and stretches obliquely upwards and out- wards, also to become con- nected with the lining peri- osteum ; neither of the lines of insertion of this membrane are prominently marked. The oblique di- rection of the membrane of Reissner causes a triangu- lar space to be shut off be- tween it and the basilar membrane, which is bound- ed externally by the outer osseous wall of the cochlea lined by periosteum : and this space, extending throughout the whole length of the osseous tube, and lined throughout by an epithelium variously modified in different parts, is known distinctively as the canal of the cochlea ■canalis membranaccus, or ductus cocldearis (figs. 465, 467, CC, fig. 469, DC). It terminates in a blind pointed extremity at the apex, and another at the base. That at the apex, extending beyond the hamulus, is fixed to the wall of the cupola, and partly bounds the helicotrema ; that at the base fits into the angle at the commencement of the osseous * To avoid repetition it may here be stated tliat for convenience sake the cochlea is considered in the present description as having its larger part or base lower- most, and the domed extremity uppermost, although of course this is far from being the relative position of the parts whilst within the body. Moreover, parts nearer the •columella are spoken of as inner ; parts nearer the external wall as outer. Fig. 467. Fig. 467.—Section through one of the Coils of the Cochlea, diagrammatic (altered from Henle). f S T, scala tympani ; S V, scala vestibuli ; C C, •canalis cochlea?; R, membrane of Reissner forming its vestibidar wall ; I s o, lamina spiralis ossea ; lis, limbus laminse spiralis ; s s, sulcus spiralis ; n c, cochlear nerve ; g s, ganglion spirale; t, mem- brana tectoria ; b, membrana basilaris ; C o, rods of Corti ; I s p, ligamentum spirale.