219 HAIRS. wards with water; and then it is seen that they still retain their nuclei. In chemical composition the nails resemble epidermis ; but, according to Mulder, they contain a somewhat larger proportion of carbon and sulphur. The growth of the nail is effected by a constant generation of cells at the root and under surface. Each successive series of these cells being followed and pushed from their original place by others, they become flat- tened into dry, hard, and inseparably coherent scales. By the addition of new cells at the posterior edge the nail is made to advance, and by the apposition of similar particles to its under surface it grows in thickness; so that it is thicker at the free border than at the root. The nail being thus merely an exuberant part of the epidermis, the question at one time raised, whether that membrane is continued underneath it, loses its significance. When a nail is thrown off by suppuration, or pulled away by violence, a new one is produced in its place, provided the matrix remains. Development of the nails.—In the third month of intra-uterine life the part of the embryonic corium which becomes the matrix of the nail is marked off by the commencing curvilinear groove, which limits it posteriorly and laterally. The epidermis on the matrix then begins to assume, in its under part, the cha- racters of a nail, which might, therefore, be said to be at first covered over by the embryonic cuticle. After the end of the fifth month it becomes free at the anterior border, and in the seventh month decidedly begins and thenceforth con- tinues to grow in length. At birth the free end is long and thin, being mani- festly the earlier formed part which has been pushed forward. This breaks or is pared off after birth, and, as the infantile nail continues to grow, its flattened cells, at first easily separable, become harder and more coherent, as in after-life. Rate of growth.—The average rate of growth of the nails is about Jj of an inch per week (Benham). Berthold found that the nails grow rather faster in summer than in winter, and faster in the right hand than in the left. He also observed a difference in the nails of different fingers : thus it was fastest in the middle finger and slowest in the thumb. A careful series of experiments by Mr. H. J. Benham, hitherto unpublished, confirm generally the observations of Berthold, but no clear difference could be observed between the two hands, and the growth appeared to be slowest in the little finger. In some individuals these differences were not observed. Hairs.—A hair consists of the root, which is fixed in the skin, the shaft or stem, and the point. The stem is generally cylindrical, but Fig. 146.—A, Surface of a White Hair, magnified 160 Diameters. The Waved Lines mark the upper or free edges of the Cortical Scales. B, Separated Scales, siagnified 350 Diameters (after Kolliker). Fig. 146. often more or less flattened: when the hair is entire, it becomes gra-