347 KEGIOXS OF THE ABDOMEN". Fig. 243. cavity into three zones ; viz. an upper, a middle, and a lower. One of these lines commences at the level of the most prominent point of the ninth costal cartilages, the other line, opposite the crest of the ilium. Each of these zones again is subdivided into three parts by means of two perpendicular lines, drawn from the cartilage of the eighth rib, on each side, down to the middle of Poupart's ligament. The upper zone is thus marked off into the right and left hypochon- driac regions (fig. 243, 4, 4) and the epigastric region (l), the depression in the upper part of which is called scrobiculus cordis, or pit of the stomach. The middle zone is divided into the umbilical region (2) in the middle, and the right and left lumbar regions (5, 5); and the inferior zone into the hypogastric region (3) in the middle, and the iliac region (6, 6) at each side. On opening the abdominal cavity from the front, the trans- verse colon is seen passing from right to left and separating the viscera into an upper and lower group. In the upper group are comprised the liver, stomach, spleen, and the commencing part of the small intestine; in the lower, more or less hidden by the great omentum, are the remain- ing parts of the small intestine, surrounded by the great intestine and dipping into the pelvis, where they come into relation with the rectum and bladder, and in the female also with the uterus. Lying more posteriorly, and hid- den by the intestines, are the pancreas and kidneys. The surfaces of the viscera which are in contact one with another, and with the wall of the cavity are rendered glistening by a coating derived from the lining membrane of the cavity, the peri- toneum; and the various organs are found to be attached by means of folds or duplicatures of that membrane, termed mesen- teries and omenta, which include the blood-vessels, nerves, and lym- phatics belonging to each organ. Subjoined is an enumeration of the viscera situated in the different regions of the abdomen. Fi 243.—Outline of the Anterior surface of the abdomen, showing the division into regions. 1, epigastric region ; 2, umbilical ; 3, hypogastric ; 4, 4, right and left hypo- chondriac ; 5, 5, right and left lumbar ; 6, 6, right and left iliac. Epigastric region Hypochondriac, right The right part of the stomach, the pancreas, and part of the liver. ( The right lobe of the liver, with the gall- 1 bladder, part of the duodenum, the hepatic ^ flexure of the colon, part of the right kidney ' with the corresponding suprarenal capsule.