397 THE SPLEEN. superior mesenteric. Its blood is returned by the splenic and superior mesenteric veins. Its lymphatics terminate in the lumbar vessels and glands. The nerves of the pancreas are derived from the solar plexus. THE SPLEEN. The spleen (fig. 282, r) is a soft highly vascular and easily distensible organ, of a dark bluish or purplish grey colour. It is situated in the left hypo-chondrium, between the cardiac end of the stomach, and the dia- phragm. It is the largest of the organs termed ductless glands. The shape of the spleen is somewhat variable : it forms usually a compressed oval mass, placed nearly vertically in the body, and having two faces, one external, convex, and free, and which is turned to the left; the other internal and concave, which is directed to the right, and is applied to the cardiac end or great cul-de-sac of the stomach : it also presents an anterior sharper and a posterior blunter margin. The convex face of the spleen, smooth and covered by the peritoneum, is in contact with the under surface of the left side of the diaphragm, ;and corresponds with the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs. The internal -concave face is divided by a vertical fissure, named the hilus (v), into •an anterior and posterior portion, both covered with peritoneum, con- tinued round the borders from the convex surface. The anterior of these two portions is the larger, and is closely applied to the stomach ; the posterior is in apposition with the left pillar of the diaphragm and left suprarenal capsule. The anterior border of the spleen is thinner than the posterior, and is often slightly notched, especially towards the lower part (see fig. 282). The lower end is pointed, and is in contact with the left end of the arch of the colon (splenic flexure), and rests on the costo-colic ligament. The position of the hilus corresponds with the line of attachment of the gastro-splenic omentum, a fold of perito- neum, continuous with the left border of the great omentum, attaching the spleen to the left extremity of the stomach. Along the bottom of this fissure are large openings, which transmit blood vessels, with lymphatics and nerves, to and from the interior of the organ. In some cases there is no distinct fissure, but merely a row of openings for the vessels ; and in others the situation of the hilus is occupied by a longitudinal ridge, interrupted by the vascular orifices. A por- tion of variable extent behind the hilus, and towards its lower end, will usually be observed deriving its peritoneal covering from the sac of the omentum, at least in the young subject. The spleen varies in magnitude more than any other organ in the body; and this not only in different subjects, but, as may be ascertained by percussion, in the same individual, under different conditions. On this account it is difficult or impossible to state what are its ordinary weight and dimensions : in the adult it measures generally about 5 or 5^ inches from the upper to the lower end, 3 or 4 inches from the anterior to the posterior border, and 1 or 1^ inch from its external to its internal surface ; and its usual volume, according to Krause, is from Of to 15 cubic inches. In the greater number of a series of cases examined by Keid, its weight ranged from 5 to 7 ozs. in the male, and was somewhat less in the female ; but even when perfectly free from disease, it may fluctuate between 4 and 10 ounces. Gray states that the proportion of the spleen to the weight of the adult body varies from 1 : 320 to 1 : 400. In the foetus the proportion is as 1 : 350. After the age of forty the average weight gradually diminishes, so that in old age the weight of the spleen is to that of the body as 1 :700. The specific gravity of this organ, according to Haller, Soemmerring, and Krause is about