BONE. 96 On observing more closely the points of the growing osseous rays at the circumference of the bone, where they shoot out into the soft tissue, it will be seen that the portion of them already calcified is granular and rather dark in appearance (fig. 55, a, b, c), but that this character is gradually lost as they are traced further outwards in the membrane, in which they are prolonged for a little way in form of soft and pliant bundles of transparent fibres (fig. 55,/). Further inwards, where the slender rods or bars of bone are already in great part hard, their calcified substance is coated over (although unequally) with transparent and as yet soft and imperfectly calcified matter, by which they grow in thickness ; and this os- sifying substance spreads out at their sides, and en- croaches on the interven- ing space, in form of a bright trellis-work (fig. 55, d), thin towards its outer limit, and there composed of fine fasciculi, but denser and closer nearer the bone, where the trabecule are thick and round, and already granular from com- mencing earthy impregna- tion. The interstices of this mesh-work are in some parts occupied by one or more of the corpuscles, but at other parts they are re- duced to short narrow clefts or mere pores. The ap- pearance here described is especially well seen at those places where a cross bridge of bone is being formed between two long spicula (as at e) ; we may there distinguish the clear soft fibres or trabecular which have already stretched across the interval, and the darkish granular opa- city indicating the earthy deposit (a, a') may be per- shading off gradually into their pellucid substance without a precise limit. This soft transparent matter, which becomes ossified, may, wherever it occurs, be distin- guished by the name of " osteogenic substance," as proposed by H. Midler, or simply of u osteogen." It is or becomes fibrous in intimate structure, and for the most part finely reticular, like the decalcified Fig. 55.—The Growing End of a Spiculum from the Parietal Bone of an Embryo Sheep at about the same period of advancement as in Fig. 54; magnified 150 diameters, but drawn under a power of 350 diameters. a, b, c, and a', parts already calcined ; d, d, irre- gular network of soft and pellucid osteogenic sub- stance, on wliich the calcification is encroaching ; a, e, a', a connecting bar or bridge still soft at e, but calcified at a and a'; f, extremity formed of bundles of soft osteogenic fibres. The structure repre- sented was covered over and hidden by granular cor- puscles, or osteoblasts, which Imve been removed. In the calcined part, a, b, c, superficial excavations are seen which are probably commencing or incom- plete lacuna?, from which the corpuscles have been washed out. From a drawing by Prof. J. Marshall, F.R.S. ceived advancing into them and