802 THE FCETAL CIRCULATIOX. the umbilical vein to reach the placenta. The commencement of each of these vessels afterwards forms the trunk of the corresponding internal iliac artery, but, from their size, they might be regarded in the foetus as the continuations of the common iliac arteries into which the aorta divides. From the placenta the blood is returned by the umbilical vein, which, after entering the abdomen, communicates by one branch with the portal vein of the liver, and is continued by another, named ductus venosus, into one of the hepatic veins, through which it joins the main stem of the vena cava inferior. Course of the Blood in the Foetus.—The right auricle of the foetal heart receives its blood from the two venaa cavas and the coronary vein. The blood brought by the superior cava is simply the venous blood returned from the head and upper half of the body : whilst the inferior cava, which is considerably larger than the superior, conveys not only the blood from the lower half of the body, but also that which is returned from the placenta through the umbilical vein. This latter stream of blood reaches the vena cava inferior, partly by a direct passage—the ductus venosus, and partly by the hepatic veins, which bring to the vena cava inferior all the blood circulating through the liver, whether derived from the supply of placental blood entering by the umbilical vein, or proceeding from the vena portse or hepatic artery. The blood of the superior vena cava, descending in front and to the right of the Eustachian valve, and mixed with a small portion of that from the inferior cava, passes on into the right ventricle, and is thence propelled into the trunk of the pulmonary artery. A small part of it is then distributed through the branches of that vessel to the lungs, and returns by the pulmonary veins to> the left auricle ; but, as these vessels remain comparatively undilated up to the time of birth, by far the larger part passes through the ductus arteriosus into the dorsal aorta, entering that vessel beyond the place of origin of the arteries of the head and upper limbs, and, mixed perhaps with a small quantity of the blood flowing into the aorta from the left ventricle, is distributed in part to the lower half of the body and the viscera, and in part is conveyed along the umbilical arteries to the placenta. From these several organs it is returned by the vena cava inferior, the venas portaa, and the umbilical vein ; and, as already noticed, reaches the right auricle through the trunk of the inferior cava. Of the blood entering the heart by the inferior vena cava, only a small part is mingled with that of the superior cava, so as to pass into the right ventricle ; by far the larger portion, directed by the Eustachian valve through the foramen ovale, flows from the right into the left auricle, and thence, together with the small quantity of blood returned from the lungs by the pulmonary veins, passes into the left ventricle, from whence it is sent into the arch of the aorta, to be distributed almost entirely to the head and upper limbs. A small portion of it,, may, however, flow on into the descending aorta, and join the fuller stream of blood from the ductus arteriosus. From the upper half of the body the blood is returned by the branches of the superior cava to the right auricle, from which its course into the right ventricle and pulmonary trunk has been already traced. There is probably a considerable difference in the early and more advanced stages of foetal life, in the distribution of the stream of blood entering the heart by the vena cava inferior. In the early stages, a large part of the current being directed into the left, but in the three last months, and as the foetus approaches maturity, more and more of the blood of the inferior cava joins the stream from the superior cava ; and, Indeed, the course of the blood, and the relative position of the veins, as well as other original peculiarities of the foetal heart, become gradually altered, in preparation, as it were, for the important changes which take place at birth. It seems also probable that very little of the blood pro- pelled from the left ventricle passes into the descending aorta beyond the ductus arteriosus during those months of foetal life in which the peculiarities of the circulation are most complete. From the preceding account of the course of the blood in the foetus, it will be seen that, whilst the modified blood, from the placenta is principally conveyed to the upper or cephalic half of the foetus, the lower half of the body is chiefly supplied with the blood which has already circulated through the head and upper