ARTERIES. 165 As they proceed in their course the arteries divide into branches, and the division may take place in different modes. An artery may at once resolve itself into two or more branches, no one of which greatly exceeds the rest in magnitude, or it may give off several branches in succession and still maintain its character as a trunk. The branches come off at different angles, most commonly so as to form an acute angle with the further part of the trunk, but sometimes a right or an obtuse angle, of which there are examples in the origin of the inter- costal arteries. The degree of deviation of a branch from the direction of the trunk was supposed to affect the force of the stream of blood, but Weber maintains that it can produce little or no effect in a system of elastic tubes maintained, like the arteries, in a state of dis- tension. An artery, after a branch has gone off from it, is smaller than before, but usually continues uniform in diameter or cylindrical until the next secession; thus it was found by Hunter that the long carotid artery of the camel does not diminish in calibre throughout its length. A branch of an artery is less than the trunk from which it springs, but the combined area or collective capacity of all the branches into which an artery divides, is greater than the calibre of the parent vessel im- mediately above the point of division. The increase in the joint capacity of the branches over that of the trunk is not in the same pro- portion in every instance of division, and there is at least one case known in which there is no enlargement, namely, the division of the aorta into the common iliac and sacral arteries ; still, notwithstanding this and other possible exceptions, it must be admitted as a general rule that an enlargement of area takes place. From this it is plain that, since the area of the arterial system increases as its vessels divide, the capacity of the smallest vessels and capillaries will be greatest; and, as the same rule applies to the veins, it follows that the arterial and venous systems may be represented; as regards capacity, by two cones whose apices (truncated it is true) are at the heart, and whose bases are united in the capillary system. The effect of this must be to make the blood move more slowly as it advances along the arteries to the capillaries, like the current of a river when it flows in a wider and deeper channel, and to accelerate its speed as it returns from the capillaries to the venous trunks. When arteries unite they are said to anastomose or inosculate. Anastomoses may occur in tolerably large arteries, as those of the brain, the hand and foot, and the mesentery, but they are much more frequent in the smaller vessels. Such inosculations admit of a free communi- cation between the currents of blood, and must tend to promote equability of distribution and of pressure, and to obviate the effects of local interruption. Arteries commonly pursue a tolerably straight course, but in some parts they are tortuous. Examples of this in the human body are afforded by the arteries of the lips and of the uterus, but more striking- instances may be seen in some of the lower animals, as in the well- known case of the long and tortuous spermatic arteries of the ram and the bull. In very moveable parts like the lips, this tortuosity will allow the vessel to follow their motions without undue stretching ; but in other cases its purpose is not clear. The physical effect of such a condition of the vessel on the blood flowing along it must be to reduce