286 Fig. 191.—Three Laryn- Fig. 191. THE LARYNX. cornicula to the lateral margins of the epiglottis (fig. 191; and fig. 192", 8, 9, 10). In studying the form of the laryngeal cavity and its apertures, it is proper to become acquainted with the appearances which they present goscopic Views op the Superior Aperture of the Larynx and Sur- rounding Parts in Dif- ferent States of the Glottis during Life (from Czermak). A, the glottis during tho emission of a high note in singiDg. B, in easy or quiet inhalation of air. C, in the state of widest possible dila- tation as in inhaling a very- deep breath. The diagrams A', B', and C, hare been added to Czermak's figures to show in- horizontal sections of the glottis the position of the vocal ligaments and arytenoid cartilages in the three several states represented in the other figures. In all the figures, so- far as marked, the letters in- dicate the parts as follows, viz. : I, the base of the tongue; e, the upper free part of the epiglottis ; e', the tubercle or cushion of the epiglottis ; p h, part of the anterior wall of the pharynx behind the larynx ; in the margin of the aryteno-epiglotticlean fold w, the swelling of the membrane caused by the cartilages of Wrisberg ; 5, that of the cartilages of Santorini ; a, the tip of the arytenoid cartilages ; c v, the true vocal cords or lips of the rima glottidis ; c v s, the superior or false vocal cords ; between them the ventricle of the larynx ; in C, t r is placed on the anterior wall of the receding trachea, and b indicates the commencement of the two bronchi beyond the bifurcation, which may be brought into view in this state of extreme dilatation. on examination during life by means of the laryngoscope, and with the relations of these to the anatomical structure. On thus examining the superior aperture, there are seen on each side two rounded elevations (fig. 191, s, w), corresponding respectively'to the cornicula and the cunei- form cartilages ; while in the middle line in front there is a tumescence of the mucous membrane of the lower part of the epiglottis, enabling that structure to close the aperture more accurately when it is depressed, and named the tubercle or cushion of the epiglottis (e'). The mucous membrane between the arytenoid cartilages is stretched when they are separated (b, c), and folded double when they are approximated (a).* On looking down through the superior opening of the larynx, the glottis or rima glottidis (fig. 192, c) is seen at some distance below, in the form of a long narrow fissure running from before backwards. It * Czermak on the Laryngoscope, translated by the New Sydenham Society.