480 THE OVARIES. Phil. Trans.. 1838 and 1839 ; Allen Thomson, Article " Ovum," in Cyclop, of Anat. and Phys.; Farre, " Uterus and Appendages," in the same ; Kolliker's Entwickelungs-geschichte ; Pfluger, Die Eierstocke, Leipzig, 1863 ; Schron, in Zeitsch. f. Wissensch. Zoologie, vol. xii. p. 409 ; Grohe, in Virchow's Archiv. vol. xxvi. p. 271, and vol. xxix. p. 450 ; Bischoff's "Works ; Henle, in his Hand- bach, vol. ii.; W. His, Die erste Entwick. des Hiihnchens, &c, 1868 ; Ed. Van Beneden, in Mem. Cour., &c, de l'Acad. Eoy. de Belgique, 1870 ; Foster and Balfour, Elements of Embryology, 1874. The ovum of mammals appears to have been seen by Messrs. Prevost and Dumas as early as 1824, but imperfectly recognised. Von Baer was undoubtedly the first clearly to point out its nature and seat within the Graafian follicle. (De ovi Mammal, et horn, genesi, Lipsias, 1827.) The discovery of the germinal vesicle in the ovarian ovum of birds was made by J. E. Purkinje in 1825. That of the mammiferous ovum was announced by Coste in 1833, and T. W. Jones had inde- pendently observed it. The macula was by discovered Eud. Wagner in 1834. Vessels and nerves of the ovaries and Fallopian tubes.—The ovaries are most directly supplied by the ovarian arteries, analogous to the spermatic in the male, which anastomose freely by an internal branch with the termination of the uterine arteries. Sometimes this anastomotic branch is so large that the ovary seems to be supplied almost entirely by the uterine artery. The ovarian artery always sends numerous branches to the Fallopian tube. The smaller arteries penetrate the ovary along its attached border, pierce the proper coat, and run in flexuous parallel lines through its substance. The veins correspond, forming a plexus near the ovary named the pampiniform plexus. The nerves are derived from the spermatic or ovarian plexus : and also from one of the uterine nerves, which invariably send an offset to the Fallopian tube. Parovarium.—The organ so named by Kobelt, or the Organ of Rosen- nuiller, its first describer, is a structure which can usually be brought plainly into view by holding against the light the fold of peritoneum between the ovary and Fallopian tube (see fig. 833). It consists of a group of scattered tubules lying transversely between the Fallopian tube and ovary, lined with epithelium, but having no external open- ings. The tubules converge, but remain separate at their ovarian end, and at the other are more or less distinctly united by a longitudinal tube. The duct which unites them is sometimes of considerable size, and is prolonged for some distance downwards, in the broad ligament. Its more developed form in some animals, as the cow and pig, consti- tutes the duct of Gaertner, afterwards referred to as arising from a persistent condition of the Wolffian duct. The origin of this vestige of a foetal structure will be more fully referred to under Development. Here it is sufficient to state that it corresponds essentially to the epididymis of the male, and is in the female, therefore, due to the persistence of the upper or sexual division of the Wolffian body, which has been distinguished by Banks, Dursy, and others from the lower or primordial-kidney part of that organ. The remains of the latter part of the Wolffian body, in the male sex, consti- tuting the organ of Giraldes, have been already referred to in the de- scription of the testicle. From the observations of His in birds, and of Waldeyer in Mammals, it appears that vestiges of this structure are also sometimes to be detected in the adult "female, in the shape of obscure or imperfect tubular remains, situated in the broad ligament nearer to the uterus than the parovarium, and more obvious remains of these are very apparent in the early stages of foetal life in man and most animals.