THE FEMALE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS. 458 pubes. Sometimes it is circular, and is perforated only by a small round orifice, placed usually a little above the centre ; and occasionally it is cribriform, or pierced with several small apertures ; and it may in rare instances completely close the vagina, constituting " imperforate hymen." On the other hand, it is often reduced to a mere fringe, or it may be entirely absent. After its rupture, some small rounded eleva- tions remain, called carunculce myrtiformes. The mucous membrane may be traced inwards from the borders of the labia majora, where it is continuous with the skin : it forms a fold over the vascular tissue of the nymphse, and is then prolonged into the urethra and vagina. It is smooth, reddish in colour, is covered by a scaly epithelium, and is provided with a considerable number of mucous 'crypts or follicles, and with glands which secrete an unctuous and odorous substance. The mucous crypts and follicles are especially dis- tinct on the inner surface of the nymphse, and near the orifice of the urethra. The sebaceous glands are found beneath the prepuce, and upon the labia majora and outer surface of the nymphse. The glands of Bartholin (or of Duverney), corresponding to Cowper's glands in the male, are two reddish yellow round or oval bodies, measuring about half an inch in the longest diameter, lodged one on each side of the commencement of the vagina, between it and the erectores clitoridis muscles, beneath the superficial perineal fascia, and in front of the transverse muscles. Their ducts, which are long Fig. 327. Fig. 327.—Front View of the Erectile Structures of the External Organs in the Female (from Kobelt). § a, bullras vestilmli ; b, sphincter vaginae muscle ; e, e, venous plexus or pars inter- media ; /, glans clitoridis ; g, connecting veins ; h, dorsal vein of the clitoris ; 1c, veins passing beneath the pubes ; /, the obturator vein. and single, run forward and open on the inner aspect of the nymphaB, outside the hymen or carunculaB myrtiformes. Erectile tissue.—All the parts of the vulva are supplied abundantly