or testes ; W, Wolffian bodies ; Fig. 605. Fig. 605.—Diagrammatic Out- line op the Wolffian Bodies 809 THE WOLFFIAN AND MULLEEIAN DUCTS. scribed as such, have in reality the same origin as the lining mem- brane of the pleuro-peritoneal cayit j. in their relations to the Rudiments of the Reproduc- tive Organs (A. T.). ot, seat of origin of the ovaries w, w, Wolffian ducts; m, in, Miillerian dncts ; gc, genital cord ; ug, sinus urogenitalis ; i, intes- tine ; cl, cloaca. These ducts at first unite with the Wolffian ducts on each side separately, but later they become separated from them and conjoined at their lower or posterior extremity, and in the de- velopment of the female type the uterus results from the farther growth of this median or united part, while in the male sex the prostatic vesicle and gland may be looked upon as its nearest representative, and other partial vestiges of the female passages are to be found in the human species and in various degrees in different mammals. The Wolffian duct, as has already been stated, becomes the vas deferens of the testicle, while the secreting part of the gland, com- prising the tubuli seminiferi and the rete testis, are developed in the reproductive blastema of the intermediate cell mass. The union of these two parts of the male organs through the coni vasculosi and the epididymis is brought about by the development of the efferent vessels in the upper part, or what may appropriately be termed the sexual part of the Wolffian body, as this structure has been shown by Banks and others to differ from the lower and larger part of the organ by the absence of the vascular tufts or glomerular arrangement in connection with its tubes. The convoluted tubes forming the efferent vessels, which from the time of their first production are in communication with the upper part of the Wolffian duct, become subsequently con- nected with the vessels of the rete testis, and thus the original Wolffian duct becomes in its upper part the tube of the epididymis, and in its lower the main excretory duct or vas deferens of the testis. Homologies of theWolffian "body;—An interesting view of the cor- respondence of the urino-genital organs in different animals is pre- sented by the recent observations of embryologists on the formation of the Wolffian bodies. It was ascertained by His, Bornhaupt, Rosenberg and Goette, that in the lower vertebrates a second body similar to the Wolffian was formed later in connection with its main duct; and the researches of Balfour and Semper have shown that in the selachians the permanent kidneys, which had long been believed to be the same