THE LYMPH AND CHYLE. 37 inconsistent Avith this theory to admit the positive efficacy of contact with foreign or dead matter in promoting coagulation. Lister,* on the other hand, considers that the blood has no spontaneous tendency to coagulate, either within or without the vessels, but that the coagulation is brought about in drawn blood by contact with foreign matter. Accepting the conclusion of Schmidt, that para-globulin and fibrinogen are necessary to the evolution of fibrin, he thinks that, if these bodies unite in ordinary chemical combination, the action of foreign matter may determine their union, as spongy platinum promotes the combination of oxygen and hydrogen. He considers that the living vessels do not exert any action to prevent coagulation, but that their peculiarity, as distinguished from an ordinary solid, consists in the remarkable circumstance that their lining membrane, in a state of health, is wholly negative in its relation to coagulation, and does not cause that molecular disturbance, so to speak, which is produced in the blood by all ordinary matter. When the vessels lose their peculiar property by death, or become seriously altered by disease or injury, their contact with the blood in- duces coagulation like that of an extraneous body. More recently, Schmidtf has himself come to the conclusion that the union of para-globulin and fibrinogen to form fibrin is determined by the presence of a third substance, which, however, does not itself take part in the combination and which he has consequently named the fibrin-ferment. This substance he believes to be not preformed in the blood, but to become formed immediately after the withdrawal of that fluid from the body. Other substances also, according to Schmidt, possess the property of in- ducing the union of para-globulin and fibrinogen, amongst them being the colouring- matter of the bloody charcoal, spongy platinum, asbestos, animal ferments, &c.; more especially those which are able to decompose peroxide of hydrogen. Schmidt considers the action of these substances to be purely one of contact; in this respect it will be seen he has adopted Lister's view. Finally, it may be observed, that in any attempted explanation of the coagulation of the blood, it is well to bear in mind that there is a purely physical or chemical phenomenon, which, as suggested by Graham, has a certain analogy to it, namely the change from the liquid to the insoluble state so easily induced in colloidal matter by slight external causes. THE LYMPH AND CHYLE. A transparent and nearly colourless fluid, named " lymph," is con- veyed into the blood by a set of vessels distinct from those of the sanguiferous system. These vessels, which are named " lymphatics," from the nature of their contents, and "absorbents," on account of their reputed office, take their rise in nearly all parts of the body, and, after a longer or shorter course, discharge themselves into the great veins of the neck; the greater number of them previously joining into a main trunk, named the thoracic duct,—a long narrow vessel which rises up in front of the vertebras, and opens into the veins on the left side of the neck, at the angle of union of the subclavian and internal jugular; whilst the remaining lymphatics terminate in the correspond- ing veins of the right side. The absorbents of the small intestine carry an opaque white liquid, named *' chyle," which they absorb from the food as it passes along the alimentary canal; and,* on account of the milky aspect of their contents, they have been called the " lacteal vessels." But in thus distinguishing these vessels by name, it must be remembered, that they differ from the rest of the absorbents only in the nature of the matters which they convey; and that this difference holds * On the Coagulation of the Blood ; the Croonian Lecture for 1863.—Proceedings of the Royal Society, vol. xii. p. 580. + Pfliiger's Archiv. vi. 1872. J In connection with this fact, it may be interesting to mention that, if blood which has been well whipped to remove the fibrin be frozen and thawed again (a process by which the red corpuscles become broken up), it yields a further coagulum.