439 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. sum. It measures three quarters of an inch along its anterior, but only about half an inch on its posterior surface, in consequence of the projection backwards on it of the bulb. This is the narrowest division of the urethra. In the middle its circumference is 0*6 of an inch : at the end 0*5. It is placed beneath the pubic arch, the anterior con- cave surface being distant nearly an inch from the bone, leaving an interval, occupied by the dorsal vessels and nerves of the penis, by areolar tissue, and some muscular fibres. Its lower convex surface is turned towards the perinasum, opposite to the point of meeting of the transverse muscles : it is separated by an interval from the last part of the rectum. About a line in front of the prostate, ifc emerges from between the anterior borders of the levatores ani, and passes through the deep layer of the subpubic fascia ; it is then placed between that and the anterior layer or triangular ligament through which it passes someway farther forwards, and has both of these fibrous membranes prolonged upon it, the one backwards and the other for- wards. Between these two layers the urethra is surrounded by erectile tissue, by some veins, and also by the fibres of the compressor urethras muscle beneath it. On each side are Cowper's glands. The proper or plain muscular fibres of this portion of the urethra are continued over the outer and inner surfaces of the prostate into the muscular fibres of the bladder posteriorly, and into those of the spongy portion of the urethra anteriorly. (Hancock.) 3. The spongy portion of the urethra, by far the longest and most variable in length and direction, includes the remainder of the canal, or that part which is surrounded by the erectile tissue of the corpus spongiosum. Its length is about six inches. The part contained within the bulb, sometimes distinguished as the bulbous portion, or sinus, is somewhat dilated. The succeeding portion, as far as the glans, is of uniform diameter, being intermediate in this respect between the bulbous and membranous portions. The cross section of its canal appears like a transverse slit. The canal of the urethra, situated in the glans has, on the contrary when seen in a cross section, the form of a vertical slit : in this part, which is from four to six lines in length, the canal is again considerably dilated, forming what is named the fossa navicularis. Lastly, at its orifice, which is a vertical fissure from two and a half to three lines in extent, and bounded by two small lips, the urethra is again contracted and reaches its narrowest dimensions. From the resistant nature of the tissues at its margin, this opening does not admit so large a sound or catheter as even the membranous portion of the canal. _ The mucous membrane of the urethra possesses a lining of stra- tified epithelium, of which the superficial cells are columnar, except for some distance from the orifice, where they are squamous, and where the subjacent membrane is beset with papillae. Outside the mucous membrane there is & layer of convoluted vascular structure, and ex- ternal to that a layer of plain circular muscular fibres separating it from the proper substance of the spongy body. The whole lining membrane of the urethra is beset with small race- mose mucous glands and follicles, commonly named the glands of Littre, the ducts of which pass obliquely forwards through the membranes. They vary much in size and in the extent to which their cavities are