NERVOUS TISSUE. 13G the crushing and breaking down of such fibres in the process of examina- tion. In the ganglia properly so called, the cells are packed up among nerve-fibres, but each cell is also immediately surrounded by an inclosing capsule (fig. 93 b). The proper nervous substance of the brain and spinal cord is described by Kolliker as being traversed in all directions and supported by a frame- work of connective tissue—the " retiform " con- nective tissue described at page 69. This is stated to be formed of an interunion of ramified con- nective tissue corpuscles, or of a network of fine fibres alone, originally proceeding from such cor- puscles. Kolliker names this supporting struc- ture the reticulum of the nervous centres (fig. 92). Yirchow proposes the term neuroglia, It is not merely an open mesh-work, but consists also of fine lamina? formed of a close interlace- ment of the finest fibrils, disposed as mem- branous partitions and tubular compartments for separating and enclosing the nervous bundles. Besides these ramified cells others are found (Deiters) which are flattened and dis- tinctly fibrillated, somewhat like the cells of developing connective tissue. Moreover, the granular matrix above described, in which the nerve-cells are imbedded, is considered by Boll to be derived from connective tissue cells, which have undergone a granular rather than a fibrillar metamorphosis.* Such being the structural elements of the nervous substance, we have next to consider the arrangement of the cells and fibres in the ganglia and nerves which they contribute to form ; the intimate structure of the encephalon and spinal cord being treated of in the part of this work which is devoted to special or descriptive anatomy. OF THE GANGLIA. The bodies so named are found in the following situations—viz. : 1. On the posterior root of each of the spinal nerves ; on one, and pro- bably the corresponding root of the fifth nerve of the encephalon ; and on the seventh pair, glossopharyngeal and pneumogastric nerves, involving a greater or less amount of their fibres ; also on the branches of certain cerebro-spinal nerves. 2. Belonging to the sympathetic nerve, (a)—In a series along each side of the vertebral column, con- nected by nervous cords, and constituting what was once considered as the trunk of the sympathetic, (b)—On branches of the sympathetic ; occurring numerously in the abdomen, thorax, neck, and head ; gene- rally in the midst of plexuses, or at the point of union of two or more branches. Those which are found in several of the fossa? of the cranium and face are for the most part placed at the junction of fine branches of the sympathetic with branches, usually larger, of the cerebro-spinal * Stieda, Studien iiber das centrale Nerven-system, Z. furZool., 1868, 1870. Golgi, Contribuzione alle fina Anatoinia degli Organi centrali del Sistema nervoso ; Rivista Clinica, 1871. Boll, Die Histologic und Histiogenese der Nervose Central-organe,, Berlin, 1873. Fig. 92. Eig. 92. — Part of the Reticulum prom the Spinal Cord. Open meshes are seen generally, but at two places close lamelliform interlacements are shown. Magnified 350 diameters (Kolliker).