454 THE TESTICLES AND THEIR DUCTS. deferent artery, or artery of the vets deferens. It ramifies on the coats of the duct, and reaches as far as the testis, where it anastomoses with the spermatic artery. The spermatic veins commence in the testis and epididymis, pass out at their posterior border, and unite into larger vessels, which freely communicate with each other as they ascend along the cord, and form the pampiniform plexus. Ultimately two or three veins follow the course of the spermatic artery into the abdomen, where they unite into a single trunk, that of the right side opening into the vena cava, and that of the left into the left renal vein. The lymphatics accompany the spermatic vessels and terminate in the lumbar lymphatic glands, which encircle the large blood-vessels in front of the vertebral column. According to Ludwig and Tomsa, as previously stated, they begin from intercommunicating lymph spaces which occupy the intervals between the tubuli seminiferi. The nerves are derived from the sympathetic system. The sper- matic plexus is a very delicate set of nervous filaments, which descend upon the spermatic artery from the aortic plexus. Some additional filaments, which are very minute, come from the hypogastric plexus, and accompany the artery of the vas deferens. It is affirmed by Let- zerich (Virchow's Archiv, vol. xlii., p. 510), that the axial filaments of the nerves penetrate the external wall and membrana propria of the seminal tubes, and terminate within in " shining granular protoplasmic masses." These observations, however, have not been confirmed on examination by La Yalette St. George. (Strieker's Handbuch, p. 548.) Thevesiculae seminales receive branches from the inferior vesical and middle hemorrhoidal arteries. The veins and lymphatics correspond. The nerves belong to the sympathetic system, and come from the hypogastric plexus. The Semen.—The semen is a thick whitish fluid, which consists of a liquor seminis, the seminal granules, and the spermatic filaments. It is the combined product of the testes and the accessory generative glands. Fig. 323. Fig. 323.—Spermatic Filaments from tub Human Vas B Deferens (from Kolliker). 1, magnified 350 diameters ; 2, magnified 800 diameters ; a, from the side ; b, from above. The liquor seminis is colourless, transparent, and of an albuminous nature. It contains floating in it, besides squamous and columnar epithelium cells, oil-like globules and minute granular matter, .seminal granules (Wagner), and the sjjermatozoa or spermatic filaments. The seminal granules are rounded colourless cor- puscles, having a granular aspect. They have an average diameter of about ^Qth of an inch, and may be allied to mucus-corpuscles. The Spermatic filaments or Corpuscles (Spermatozoa, spermatic animalcules,) are peculiar microscopic bodies which constitute the essential element for fecunda- tion of the ovum. During life, and for some hours after being removed from the testicle, they perform rapid vibratory or lashing movements. Each consists of a flattened oval part or so- called body, and of a long slender filiform tail. The body is about ^th of