THE PERITONEUM. 348 f The large end of the stomach, with the spleen and narrow extremity of the pancreas, the 1 splenic flexure of the colon, and the upper ) part of the left kidney with the left supra- renal capsule. Sometimes also a part of the left lobe of the liver. (Part of the omentum and mesentery, the ) transverse part of the colon, lower part of \ the duodenum, with some convolutions of ' the jejunum and ileum. ( The ascending- colon, lower half of the kidney, / and part of the duodenum and jejunum. \ The descending- colon and lower part of the ( left kidney, with part of the jejunum. ( The convolutions of the ileum, the bladder in 1 children, and, if distended, in adults also ; ( the uterus when in the gravid state, j The caecum, with the appendix vermiformis, I and the termination of the ileum. The sigmoid flexure of the colon. THE PERITONEUM. The peritoneum or serous membrane of the abdominal cavity is by far the most extensive and complicated of the serous membranes. Like the others it may be considered to form a shut sac, on the outside of which are placed the viscera which it covers. In the female, however, the two Fallopian tubes open at their free extremities into the cavity of the peritoneum. The internal surface is free, smooth, and moist. The external or attached surface adheres partly to the parietes of the abdomen and pelvis, and partly to the outer surface of the viscera situated within them. The parietal portion is connected with the fascia lining the abdomen and pelvis by means of a layer of areolar tissue, distinct from the abdominal fasciae, and named the subperitoneal layer ; it is more firmly adherent along the middle line of the body in front, as well as to the under surface of the diaphragm. The visceral portion, which is thinner than the other, affords a more or less complete covering to most of the abdominal and pelvic organs. The folds of the peritoneum are of various kinds. Some of them, constituting the mesenteries, connect certain portions of the intestinal canal with the posterior wall of the abdomen; they are, the mesentery properly so called for the jejunum and ileum, the meso-cascum, trans- verse and sigmoid meso-colon, and the meso-rectum. Other duplica- tures exist, which are called omenta ; they are the great omentum or epiploon, the small omentum, and the gastro-splenic omentum. Lastly, certain reflexions of the peritoneum from the walls of the abdomen or pelvis to viscera which are not portions of the intestinal canal, are named ligaments: such are the ligaments of the liver, spleen, uterus, and bladder. These folds or ligaments will be specially described with the viscera with which they are connected. Like other serous membranes the peritoneum is continuous through- out its whole extent, and its continuity may be traced from any one point to any other near or distant; but the description of this will be most readily understood after an account has been given of the several viscera to which the membrane is related. Hypochondriac, left . Umbilical . . . . Lumbar, right . . . Lumbar, left . . . Hypogastric. . . . Iliac, right . . . . Iliac, left . . . .