523 EXTERNAL SURFACE. cleft the under surface rests in the anterior fossa of the base of the skull, and behind it in the middle fossa, and further back still, on the ten- torium cerebelli. The great longitudinal fissure (fig. 372, I1), seen upon the upper sur- face of the brain, extends from before backwards throughout its whole length in the median plane, and thus separates the cerebrum, as already stated, into a right and left hemisphere. On opening this fissure, it is seen, both before and behind, to pass quite through to the base of the cerebrum; but in the middle it is interrupted by a large transverse mass of white substance, named the corpus callosum, which connects the two hemispheres together. While the brain is in its natural situation, this fissure is occupied by a vertical process of the dura mater—the falx cerebri—which dips down between the two hemispheres, not quite reaching to the corpus callosum. The Surface of the Hemispheres is composed of grey matter, and is moulded into numerous smooth and tortuous eminences, named con- volutions or gyri, which are marked off from each other by deep furrows, called sulci, or anfractuosities. Lobes of the cerebrum.—These are five in number, termed respectively, frontal, parietal, occipital, temporo-sphenoidal and central. The three former are in contact with the bones after which they are named, though their limits do not correspond to those of the bones ; the fourth occupies the middle or temporo-sphenoidal fossa in the base of the skull, while the central lobe or island of Reil lies within the fissure of Sylvius. The divisions between these lobes are marked by certain conspicuous fissures and by artificial lines connecting those fissures. Their real limits will be better understood when the convolu- tions and fissures have been described. Formerly it was customary to divide each hemisphere into three lobes, an anterior, in front of the fissure of Sylvius, a middle, behind that fissure and rest- ing in the temporo-sphenoidal fossa, and a posterior lobe behind it, resting- on the tentorium cerebelli. The division into five lobes, now generally adopted, was first made by Gratiolet. The Convolutions are covered closely throughout by the vascular investing membrane, the pia mater, which sends processes down to the bottom of the sulci between them, while the serous covering, the arachnoid membrane, passing from one convolution to another, over their summits and without dipping between them. In general, the depth of a convolution exceeds its thickness; and its thickness, near the summit, is somewhat greater than through its base. Since the external grey or cortical substance is continuous over the whole surface of the cerebral hemispheres, being found alike within the sulci and upon the gyri, a far greater extent of grey matter is thus ex- posed to the vascular surface of the pia mater with a given size of the brain, than could have been the case had the hemispheres been plain and destitute of convolutions. The Fissures between the convolutions are generally from half an inch to an inch in depth, but vary in this respect both in different brains and in different parts of the same brain. In all brains certain primary fissures can be recognised, on which the division into lobes has been founded, and these it will be convenient to describe first.