CONNECTIONS OF THE BLADDER. 421 the umbilicus, where it becomes blended with the dense fibrous tissue found in that situation. The urachus, which forms in the early foetal state a tubular communication between the urinary bladder and the allantoic vesicle, preserves, according to Luschka, vestiges of its original condi- tion in the form of a long interrupted cavity, with irregularities and dilatations, lined with epithelium similar to that of the bladder, and sometimes communicating by a fine opening with the vesical cavity.* The sides of the bladder, when it is distended, are rounded and pro- minent, and are each of them crossed obliquely by the cord of the obliterated hypogastric artery, which is connected posteriorly with the superior vesical artery, and runs forwards and upwards to the um- bilicus, approaching the urachus above the summit of the bladder. Behind and above this cord the side of the bladder is covered with the peritoneum, but below and in front of it the peritoneum does not reach the bladder, which is here connected to the sides of the pelvic cavity by loose areolar tissue containing fat, and, near its anterior and lower part, by the broad expansion from the recto-vesical fascia, forming the lateral true ligament. The vas deferens crosses obliquely the lower part of this lateral surface, from before backwards and downwards, and turning over the obliterated hypogastric artery, descends upon the inner side of the ureter, along the posterior surface, to the base of the bladder. The base or fundus (fig. 305) (inferior fundus) is the widest part of the bladder. It is directed backwards as well as downwards, and differs according to the sex in its relations to other parts. In the male it rests Fig. 322. Fig. 305.—Base op the Male Bladder with the Vesicul^e Seminales, Vasa Deferentia, and Prostate exposed (from Haller). One-half the natur- al size. a, line of reflection of the peri- toneum in the recto-vesical pouch ; b, the part above this from which the peritoneum has been removed, exposing the longitudinal mus- cular fibres ; i, left vas deferens ending in e, the left ejaculatory duct ; s, left vesicula seminalis joining the same duct; the right vas deferens, and the right vesi- cula seminalis, marked s, s, un- ravelled, are also shown ; p, under side of the prostate gland ; m, small part of the membranous portion of the urethra ; u, u, the ureters, of which the right is turned to the side. upon the second portion of the rectum, and is covered posteriorly for a short space by the peritoneum, which, however, is immediately reflected from thence upon the rectum, so as to form the recto-vesical pouch (fig. 304, r'). In front of the line of reflection of the serous membrane, the * Yirchow's Archiv, 1862, and Anat. d. Mensch., vol. ii. p. 229.