THE HEART. 250 Fig. 171. near the apex, are three times as thick as those of the right ventricle, are thickest at the part where the ventricle is widest, about one-fourth of its length from the base (fig. 170, 3, 3'); from this point they become thinner towards the auricular opening, and still thinner towards the apex (3"), which is, therefore, the weakest part. The lining mem- brane, which is continuous with that of the left auricle and the aorta, is usually less transparent than that of the right ventricle, especially in later life. In the interior of the cavity are noticed columnse carneas, musculi papillares with chordae tendineae, and two orifices guarded with valves. The colwnnce carnm are smaller than those of the right ven- tricle, but are more numerous and more closely reticulated. Their intersections are very numerous near the apex of the cavity, and also along its posterior wall, but the upper part of the anterior wall and septum is comparatively smooth. The musculi papillares (4, 5) are col- lected into two groups, which are larger than those of the right ven- tricle. The two orifices of this ventricle are situated very close together, with one of the segments (fig. 171, 6) of the auriculo-ventricular valve Fig. 171.—View of the Base op the Ventricular Part op the Heart, showing THE RELATIVE POSITION OP THE ARTERIAL AND AURICULO-VENTRICULAR ORIFICES (Allen Thomson). Two-thirds the Natural Size. The muscular fibres of the ventricles are exposed by the removal of the pericardium, fat, bloodvessels, &c.; the pulmonary artery and aorta and the auricles have been re- moved. The valves are in the closed condition. A, is placed opposite that part which is most anterior when the organ is in the natural position within the body. 1, 1, right ventricle ; 1', conus arteriosus ; 2, 2, left ventricle ; 3, 3, the divided wall of the right auricle ; 4, that of the left; 5, the anterior, 5', the right (or inferior), and 5", the septal segment of the tricuspid valve ; 6, the anterior or aortic, and 6', the posterior or parietal segment of the mitral valve. In the angles between these segments are seen smaller fringes ; 7, the pulmonary artery ; 8, placed upon the root of the aorta ; 9, the posterior, 9', the anterior coronary artery. between: the auricular opening is placed at the left and posterior part of the base of the ventricle ; the aortic opening, in close proximity in front and towards the right. The bicuspid or mitral valve, at the left auricular opening, resembles in structure the tricuspid valve of the right ventricle, but it is much