2S4 THE TRACHEA. Ffc. 180. bifurcates into the two bronchi. It usually measures from four inches to four inches and a half in length, and from three-quarters of an inch to one inch in width; but its length and width are liable to con- tinual variation, according to the position of the larynx and the direction of the neck; moreover, it usually widens a little at its lower end, and its average diameter is greater in the male than in the female. In front and at the sides the trachea is rendered cylindrical, firm, and resistant, by a series of cartilaginous rings; these, how- ever, are deficient behind, so that the posterior portion is flattened and entirely membranous (fig. 181). The windpipe is nearly every- where invested b}r a loose areolar tissue, abounding in elastic fibres, and is very moveable on surround- ing parts. Both in the neck and thorax, it rests behind against the gullet, which intervenes between it and the vertebral column, but towards its lower part projects somewhat to the left side. The recurrent laryngeal nerves ascend to the larynx on each side in the angle between these two tubes. In the neck the trachea is situa- ted between the common carotid arteries ; at its upper end it is em- braced by the lateral lobes of the thyroid body, the middle part or isthmus of which lies across it just below the larynx. It is covered in front by the sterno-thyroid and sterno-hyoid muscles, between which, however, there is left an elongated lozenge-shaped interval in the middle line : this interval is covered in by a strong process of the deep cervical fascia, while, more superficially, another layer not so strong crosses between the sterno-mastoid muscles. The in- ferior thyroid veins and the arterm thyroidea ima, when that vessel exists, also lie upon its anterior surface ; whilst at the root of the neck, in the episternal notch, the innominate artery and the left carotid pass obliquely over it as they ascend to gain its sides. Fig. 180.—Outline showinw the Gene- ral Form of the Larynx, Trachea, and Bronchi, as seen from before (Allen Thomson). One-half the Natu- ral Size. h, the great cornu of the hyoid bone ; c, epiglottis ; t, superior, and t', inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage ; c, middle of the cricoid cartilage ; t r, the trachea, showing sixteen cartilaginous rings ; b, the right, and the left bronchus.