737 THE CRANIAL BASIS. The flask-like outgrowth of the buccal epiblast which gives rise to the hypo- physis cerebri, is now gradually shut off from the corneous layer and cavity of the mouth, first by the constriction, and subsequently by the closure of its place of communication. There remains, however, for a considerable time, a longish Pig. 537. — Outline Plan View op the Upper Part of the Body of an Embryo Pig, two-thirds of an inch in Length. Magnified seven dia- meters (from Parker). Fig. 538. — Plan of the Skull, &c, of the same Embryo seen from below. Magnified ten diameters (from Parker). In this and the preceding figure the letters, where pre- sent, indicate the following Fig. 537. c' to c5 , the five primary divisions of the brain ; a, the eye ; n, the nose ; in, the month ; tr, cartilage of the trabecule ; ctr, cornua tra- becnlarum ; pn, prenasal car- tilage ; ppg, pterygo-palatine cartilage ; inn, the mandi- bular arch with Meckel's car- tilage ; te, first visceral cleft which becomes the tympano- eustachian passage ; au, the auditory vesicle ; luj, the cerato-hyoid arch ; br, the branchial bars and clefts, 1 to 4; thh, the thyro-hyoid; py, the pituitary fossa ; ch, the notochord in the cranial basis, surrounded by the in- vesting mass (iv) ; vn, facial nerve ; ix, glosso-pharyngeal; x, pneumogastric ; xn, hypo- glossal nerve. thread of union between the two (fig. 535, C, _?/). The epithelium of the en- closed portion subsequently undergoes development into glandular cceca and cell-cords, and its internal cavity becomes gradually obliterated. This forms the anterior part or lobe of the pituitary body. The posterior part owes its origin to the combination with mesoblastic tissue of a widened extension of the infundibular process of the brain, which is thrust ill between the sac of the pituitary body and the dorsum sella?. The nervous struc- ture of this posterior lobe afterwards disappears in the higher animals, but in the lower it retains its place as a part of the brain. 3 B 2