22 THE BLOOD. may then unite again. The phenomenon is probably of a physical kind: it will take place in blood that has stood for some hours after it has been drawn, and also when the globules are immersed in serum in place of liquor sanguinis.* By processes, which need not here be detailed, Vierordt and "Welcker have esti- mated the number of red corpuscles in a cubic millimetre of human blood. The former assigns it at upwards of 5,000,000 ; the latter at 5.000,000 in the male, and 4,500,000 in the female. Fig. 12. A B Fig. 12. — Human Red Corpuscles (A) and Blood Corpuscles op the Frog (B) placed SIDE BY SIDE TO SHOW RELATIVE SIZE. 500 DlAMETERS. 1, shows their broad surface ; 2, one seen edgeways ; 3, shows the effect of dilute acetic acid ; the nucleus has become distinct (from Wagner). Like the mammalian blood-disks the large corpuscles of the frog and salamander may be described as consisting of coloured matter and stroma. They differ from them however in the possession of a more solid particle of an oval shape which lies imbedded in the stroma. This has been long known as the " nucleus," it is rather more than one-third the length of the corpuscle. In the natural unaltered condition the nucleus is seldom visible ; this is probably owing to the extreme smoothness of its outline and the fact that it possesses very nearly the same index of refraction as the rest of the corpuscle. For it may be rendered visible, even under such circumstances, by the combined action of watery vapour and carbonic acid upon the blood ; a precipitate (of paraglobulin) is thus produced upon the nucleus, and its outline comes into view ; on readmission of air the precipitate is re-dissolved, and the nucleus again disappears (Strieker). The effect of most reagents is similar to that produced on human blood. Water causes both stroma and nucleus to swell up by imbibition, the coloured part being extracted at the same time. A dilute solution of acetic acid in an indifferent fluid also removes the colouring matter, but the stroma and nucleus retain then- shape, the last-mentioned body presenting a markedly granular appearance (fig. 12, 3) ; if strong acetic acid be employed, the nucleus often acquires a reddish tint. Alkalies, on the other hand, even when very dilute, rapidly destroy both corpuscle and nucleus. Various reagents added to newt's blood cause the coloured part of the corpuscles to become collected around the nucleus, and to be more or less withdrawn from the stroma ; this is more especi- ally the case with a two per cent, solution of boracic acid (Briicke) : the coloured matter and nucleus may subsequently be altogether extruded from the body of the corpuscle. * For possible explanations of this phenomenon the reader is referred to memoirs by Lister (Phil. Trans., 1858), and Norris (Proc. Roy. Soc. 1869).