442 THE TESTICLES AND ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. of the scrotum than behind, and, moreover, it forms two distinct sacs,, •which contain the corresponding testes, and are united together along the middle line so as to establish a median partition between the two glands named the septum scroti, which is adherent below to the deep surface of the raphe, and reaches upwards to the root of the penis. The dartos is very vascular, and, as was first shown by Kolliker, owes its contractile properties to the presence of a considerable amount of unstriped muscular tissue. Its contractility is slow in its action; it is excited by the application of cold and of mechanical stimuli, but, apparently, not by electricity. By its general contraction the skin of the scrotum is drawn together and more or less corrugated. 3. The intercolumnar or spermatic fascia, a very thin and trans- parent but relatively firm layer, derived from the tendon of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen, is attached above to the margins of the external ring, and is prolonged downwards upon the cord and testicle. It lies at first beneath the superficial fascia, and lower down beneath the dartos, and it is intimately connected with the layer next men- tioned. 4. The cremasteric layer is composed of scattered bundles of striped muscular fibres, connected together into a continuous covering by inter- mediate areolar membrane. The red muscular portion, which is con- tinuous with the lower border of the internal oblique muscle of the abdomen, constitutes the cremaster muscle, and the entire covering is named the cremasteric fascia. By the action of the cremaster the cord is shortened and the testicle is raised towards the body. 5. The infnndibuliform fascia, continuous above with the fascia transversalis and the subperitoneal areolar membrane, and situated immediately beneath the cremasteric fascia, invests the cord com- pletely, and is connected below with the posterior part of the testicle and the outer surface of its serous tunic. On forcing air beneath the infundibuliform fascia, a quantity of loose and delicate areolar tissue is seen to connect its deep surface with the vas deferens and spermatic blood-vessels, and to form lamelke between them. This areolar tissue is continuous above with the subserous areolar tissue found beneath the peritoneum on the anterior wall of the abdomen ; below, it is lost upon the back of the testicle. Together with the infundibuliform fascia, it forms the fascia propria of A. Cooper. Lying amongst this loose areolar tissue, in front of the upper end of the cord, there is often seen a fibro-areolar band, which is connected above with the pouch of peritoneum found opposite the upper end of the inguinal canal, and which passes downwards for a longer or shorter distance along the spermatic cord. Occasionally it may be followed as a fine cord, as far as the upper end of the tunica vaginalis ; sometimes no trace of it can be detected. It is the vestige of a tubular process of the peritoneum, which in the foetus connects the tunica vaginalis with the general peritoneal membrane. The testicle is placed within the abdomen during the greater part of foetal life ; but at a period con- siderably prior to its escape from the abdominal cavity, a pouch of peritoneum already extends down into the scrotum. Into this pouch, or processus vaginalis peritonei, the testicle projects from behind, sup- ported by a duplicature of the serous membrane, named the mesor- chium. Sooner or later after the gland has descended into the scrotum, the upper part or neck of this pouch becomes contracted and finally