TEE FEMALE URETHRA.. 451) with blood-vessels, and in certain situations there are masses composed of venous plexuses, or erectile tissue, corresponding to those found in the male. Besides the corpora cavernosa and glans clitoridis, already referred to, there are two large leech-shaped masses, the bulbi vestibuM, about an inch long, consisting of a network of veins, enclosed in a fibrous membrane, and lying one on each side of the vestibule, a little behind the nymphae. They are rather pointed at their upper extremi- ties, and rounded below : they are suspended, as it were, to the crura of the clitoris and the rami of the pubes, covered internally by the mucous membrane, and embraced on the outer side by the fibres of the constrictor vaginae muscle. They are together equivalent to the bulb of the urethra in the male, which, it will be remembered, presents traces of a median division. In front of the bipartite bulb of the vestibule is a smaller plexus on each side, the vessels of which are directly con- tinuous with those of the bulbus vestibuli behind, and of the glans clitoridis in front. This is the pars intermedia of Kobelt, and is regarded by him as corresponding with the part of the male corpus spongiosum urethras which is in front of the bulb : it receives large veins coining direct from the nymphae. Blood-Vessels.—The outermost parts of the vulva are supplied by the superficial pudendal arteries ; the deeper parts and all the erectile tissues receive branches from the internal pudic arteries, as in the male. The veins also in a great measure correspond : there is a vena dorsalis clitoridis, receiving- branches from the glans and other parts as in- the male ; the veins of the bulbus vestibuli pass backwards into the vaginal plexuses, and are connected also with the obturator veins : above they communicate with the veins of the pars intermedia, those of the corpora cavernosa and the glans of the clitoris, and also with the vena dorsalis. The lymphatics accompany the blood-vessels. Nerves.—Besides sympathetic branches, which descend along the arteries, especially for the erectile tissues, there are other nerves proceeding from the lumbar and sacral plexuses ; those from the former being branches of the genito- crural, and those from the latter of the inferior pudendal and internal pudic nerves, which last sends comparatively large branches to the clitoris. The mode of termination is not known with certainty ; tactile corpuscles have been seen in the human clitoris, and Pacinian bodies in that of some animals. THE FEMALE URETHRA. The female urethra is short as compared with that of the male sex. It is about an inch and a half in length, and is wide and capable of great distension ; its ordinary diameter is about three or four lines, but it enlarges towards its vesical orifice. The direction of this canal is mainly downwards with a slight curvature forwards. It lies embedded in the anterior wall of the vagina, from which it can only be separated by dissection. The external orifice, or meatus urinarius, opens in the vulva, nearly an inch below and behind the clitoris, between the nymphae, and imme- diately above the entrance to the vagina. From its orifice, which is its narrowest part, the canal passes upwards and backwards between the crura of the clitoris and behind the pubes, gradually enlarging into a funnel-shaped opening as it approaches and joins the neck of the bladder. There is also a dilatation in the back of the canal, just within the meatus.