NERVOUS TISSUE. 156 throughout the muscular substance, with which they are closely incorporated (Sitz. cler Phys. Med. Soc. z. Erlangen, 1873). Another observer, Arndt, who admits the existence of the end-plate, describes in addition a complex system of communicating fibres which extend throughout the muscular substance, and by means of which the plate is brought into connection with the muscle corpuscles and nuclei (Schultze's Archiv f. micr. Anatomie, ix.). Differences of cerebrospinal nerves.—It remains to notice the differences which have been observed among the cerebro-spinal nerves in regard to the size of their fibres, and the proportionate amount of the different kinds of fibres which they respectively contain. As already stated, both white and grey fibres exist in cerebro-spinal nerves, and those of the former kind differ greatly from each other in size. Volkmann and Bidder, who have bestowed much pains in endeavouring to arrive at an approxi- mate estimate of the relative amount of the large and the small fibres in different nerves, give the following as the more important results of their researches. 1. The nerves of voluntary muscles have very few small fibres, usually in not larger proportion than about one to ten. 2. In the nerves of involuntary muscles, whether derived immediately from the cerebro-spinal system or from the sympathetic, the small fibres eminently preponderate, being about a hundred to one. 3. The nerves going to the integuments have always many small fibres, at least as many small as large. 4. Nerves of sentient parts of mucous membranes have from five to twenty times more small fibres than large : in mucous membranes possessing little sensi- bility, the nerves are made up chiefly of small fibres. The nerves which enter the cavities of the teeth consist principally of large fibres. It is plain, however, that Volkmann and Bidder must have reckoned in with their small fibres more or fewer of the non-medullated sort, so that the propor- tion assigned to the small fibres in their estimate must be taken as including some grey, as well as white fibres ; and this agrees with the observation pre- viously made by Remak, that many more grey fibres are contained in the cuta- neous than in the muscular nerves. The roots of the spinal nerves contain fine fibres, but according to Remak only in very small proportion : Volkmann and Bidder state that in man the anterior roots contain proportionally more large fibres than the posterior. In almost all nerves, the fibres diminish in size as they approach their termination. The peculiarities of some of the cranial nerves, such as the olfactory and auditory, have been already alluded to and need not be further considered here. OF THE SYMPATHETIC OR GANGLIONIC NERVES. This name is commonly applied to a nerve or system of nerves present on both sides of the body, and consisting of the following parts, viz.:—1. iY series of ganglia, placed along the spinal column by the side of the vertebrae, connected with each other by an intermediate nerve-cord, and extending upwards to the base of the skull and down- wards as far as the coccyx. This principal chain of ganglia, with the cord connecting them, forms what is often named the trunk of the sympathetic. 2. Communicating branches, which connect these ganglia or the intermediate cord with all the spinal and several of the cranial nerves. 3. Primary branches passing off from the ganglionic chain or trunk of the nerve, and either bestowing themselves at once, and gene- rally in form of plexuses, on the neighbouring blood-vessels, glands, and other organs, or, as is the case with the greater number, proceeding