PRIMARY DEVELOPMENT OF THE EYE. 763 cellular constituents than the inner or that towards the brain, and from this, as well as the increase of the inward folding, the original cavity of the primary optic vesicle becomes in a great measure obliterated or narrowed, and the outer and inner folds are closely approximated, while the stalk or pedicle becomes proportionally much diminished. The continued increase of cellular development in the outer fold of this cup leads to the formation of the various elements composing the retina ; while in the thinner inner fold only pigment cells are foimed. The transition at the bend from the thick nervous part to Fig. 563.—Section through the Eye op an Em- bryo-Calf op twelve mm., or half an inch, long, magnified (from Julius Arnold). The lens follicle is now closed in and detached from the corneous layer, and its cavity contains loose cells which are the remains of the superficial corneous cells. The optic vesicle or capsule is now completely doubled back, so as to present towards the lens side the secondary ocular capsule or cup ; its outer wall now much thickened by the commencement of the development of retina. Mesoblastic tissue is seen to have passed in from the periphery between the optic capsule and the lens, as well as in front of the lens. The commencement of a vascular circle is shown round the exterior of the ocular capsule, and extending also between the lens follicle and the cuticle. the thin pigmental part is quite sudden, and as soon as pigment cells begin to be developed, a very marked distinction is perceptible between it and the nervous structure of the retina. These cells were formerly regarded as a part of the choroid membrane, but they are now looked upon as belonging rather to the retina,—a view which is supported by the mode of development now described. Fig. 564.—Diagrammatic Sketch of a Vertical Longitudinal Section through the Eyeball of a Human Fcetus of four weeks (after Kolli- ker). ^2 The section is a little to the side so as to avoid passing through the ocular cleft, c, the cuticle, where it becomes later the cornea ; I, the lens ; op, optic nerve formed by the pedicle of the primary optic vesicle ; x p, primary medullary cavity of the optic vesicle ; p, the pigment-layer of the outer wall ; r, the inner wall form- ing the retina ; v s, secondary optic vesicle containing the rudiment of the vitreous humour. The fold which produces the optic cup proceeds from above down- wards, and when the lens is formed it seems as if it enclosed the lens but left for a time an aperture or depression below. This is the choroidal fold or fissure, which may easily be distinguished in the embryo-head after pigment has been deposited, from the circumstance that the pigment is absent from the cleft, which thus appears for a Fig. 563. Fig. 564. VP