THE SPINAL COED. 494 been described on each side of the cord, corresponding with the lines of attachment of the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves. The posterior lateral fissure (fig. 347, 4) is a superficial depression along the line of attachment of the posterior roots. The anterior lateral fissure, which is often described in the line of the origin of the anterior roots of the nerves, has no real existence as a groove. The fibres of these roots in fact, unlike the posterior, do not dip into the spinal cord in one narrow line, but spread over a space of some breadth. Thus, each lateral half of the cord is divided superficially by the posterior lateral fissure into a posterior and an anterolateral column. The attachment of the anterior roots, however, divides the latter into anterior and lateral portions. On the posterior surface of the cord, and most evidently in the upper Fig. 347. Fig. 347. — Different Views of a Portion of the Spinal Cord from the Cervical Region with the Roots of the Nerves. Slightly enlarged (Allen Thom- son). In A, the anterior sur- face of the specimen is shown, the anterior nerve- root of the right side being divided ; in B, a view of the right side is given ; in C, the upper surface is shown ; in D, the nerve-roots and gan- glion are shown from below. 1, the anterior median fissure; 2, pos- terior median fissure ; 3, anterior lateral depres- sion, over which the ante- rior nerve-roots are seen to spread ; 4, posterior lateral groove into which the posterior roots are seen to sink ; 5, anterior roots passing the ganglion ; 5', in A, the anterior root divided; 6, the posterior roots, the fibres of which pass into the ganglion, 6' ; 7, the united or compound nerve ; 7', the posterior primary branch, seen in A and D to be derived in part from the anterior and in part from the posterior root. part, there are two slightly marked longitudinal furrows situated one on each side, close to the posterior median fissure, and marking off, at least in the cervical region, a slender tract, named the posterior median column. Between the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves, on each side, the cord is convex, and sometimes presents a longitudinal mark corresponding with the line of attachment of the ligamentum denticulatum. INTERNAL STRUCTURE OF THE SPINAL CORD. The spinal cord consists of white and grey nervous substance. The white matter, forming by far the larger portion of the cord, is