Fig. 596. 799 THE FCETAL CIRCULATION. FORAMEN OVALE. Fig. 596.—View of the Fcetal Heart obliquely on the left auricle ; and in front of the root of the left lung there remains a small fold of the serous membrane of the pericardium, the vestigial fold of the pericardium, so named by Marshall, to whom is due the first full elucidation of the nature and relations of the left primitive vena cava. The left duct of Cuvier has been observed persistent as a small vessel in the adult. Less frequently a right and left innominate vein open separately into the right auricle, an arrangement which is also met with in birds and in certain mammals, and which results from the vessels of the left side being developed similarly to those of the right, while the cross branch remains small or absent. (Quain on the Arteries, plate 58, figs. 9 and 10.) and G-reat Vessels, from the left side, to show the vestige of the Left Superior Cava Vein in situ. (This figure is planned after one of Marshall's, and slightly altered accord- ing to an original dissection.) a, right auricle ; b, left auricle and pulmonary veins ; c, the conus arteriosus of the right ventricle ; d, the left ven- tricle ; e, descending aorta; + , vestigial fold of the pericardium ; /, arch of the aorta, with a part of the pericardium remaining superiorly ; g, main pulmonary artery and ductus arteriosus ; g\ left pul- monary artery ; 1,1', right and left in- ternal jugular veins; 2, 2', subclavian veins ; 3,3', right innominate and superior vena cava ; 4, left innominate or com- municating vein ; 5, 5', remains of the left superior cava and duct of Cuvier, passing at + in the vestigial fold of the pericardium, joining the coronary sinus, 6, below, and receiving above the superior intercostal vein, 7 ; 7', 7', the upper and lower intercostal vein, joining into one. A case is recorded by G-ruber, in which the left vena azygos opened into the coronary sinus, and was met by a small vein descending from the union of the subclavian and jugular. (Keichert and Dubois, Reymond's Archiv, 1864, p. 729.) In this case, the jugular veins had been developed in the usual manner, while the left vena azygos continued to pour its blood into the duct of Cuvier. (Consult Kolliker, Entwickelungsgeschichte, p. 414, et seq. ; J. Marshall on the Development of the great Anterior Veins in Man and Mammalia, in Phil. Trans., part i., 1850 ; and "VVenzel Gruber, t)ber die Sinus Communis und die Valvulss der Venas Cardiacse, &c, in Mem. de l'Acad. imper. des Scien. de St. Petersbourg, 1864 ; and in Virchow's Archiv, Jan. 1865.) PECULIARITIES OF THE FCETAL ORGANS OP CIRCULATION.' It may be useful here to recapitulate shortly the peculiarities of structure existing in the advanced stage of the formation of the foetal organs of circulation with reference to their influence in determining the course of the blood during intra-uterine life, and the changes which occur in them in consequence of the establishment of pulmonary respi- ration at birth. The so-called foramen ovale retains the form of a free oval opening in the septum auricularum up to the fourth month, but in the course of that month and the next there takes place the growth from below and on the left side of a flat plate or curtain, which advancing upwards fills up the floor of the fossa ovalis, adheres to its left borders as far as its. anterior part, and then becoming free and passing beyond the anterior VOL. II. 3 F