115 ENDING IN TENDON. Nuclei or muscle-corpuscles.—A are found in the fibres (see p. 154, fig. 105, and fig. 106 e). In mammalian muscles they lie upon the inner surface of the sarco- lemma, but in frogs they are distributed through the substance of the fibre (fig. 72). Associated with and surrounding them is a certain amount of granular pro- toplasm, which is doubtless connected with the growth and nutrition of the muscle. It shades off at the margins into the ground-substance of the fibre. Both it and the ground-substance are to be re- garded as the remains of the original formative protoplasm of the embryonic cells which compose the muscle (Max Schultze). In the unaltered condition the nuclei are commonly obscured, but may be made conspicuous by the addition of acetic acid. Length and ending of the fibres.— The fibres composing a muscle are of limited length, not exceeding one inch and in a long fasciculus a fibre does not reach from one tendinous attachment to the other, but ends with a rounded extremity, invested with its sarcolemma, and cohering with neigh- bouring fibres. Unless when either is fixed to a tendon, both extremities of the fibre terminate in the way described, so that it has a long cylindrical shape. Branched fibres.—Generally speaking the fibres neither divide nor anastomose ; but this rule is not without exception. In the tongue of the frog the muscular fibres (fig. 73) as they approach the surface divide into nume- rous branches, by which they are attached to the under surface of the mucous mem- brane. The same thing has also been seen in the tongue of man and various other animals ; and the fibres of the facial muscles of mammals have been shown by Busk and Huxley to divide in a similar manner where they fix themselves to the skin. Connection with tendons.—As shown by Kolliker, the mode of connection differs when the muscular fibres are continuous in a direct line with those of the tendon from that which is observed when the former join the latter at number of clear oval nuclei Fig. 72. ■Ill i i i 1 Wm Fig. 72.—A Frog's Muscular Fibre treated with Acetic Acid, magnified 350 Diam. (from Kolliker). The nuclei are somewhat shrunk. Interstitial granules in longitu- dinal rows, here and there. a half; and accordingly a more or less acute angle. In the first case the two are directly continuous, the muscular fibre being distinguishable from that of the fibrous tissue by its striation alone (fig. 74, B). Fig. 73. — A Branched Muscular Fibre from the Frog's Tongue, mag- nified 350 diam. (from Kolliker). In the second case, i 2