MEMBRANES OF BRAIN AND CORD. 572 contain a double layer. From its internal surface numerous small vessels enter the substance of the brain, and hence this inner surface is very flocculent, and is named tomentwn cerebri. On the cerebellum a similar arrangement exists, but the membrane is finer, and the double fold only distinct in the larger sulci. The pia mater is also prolonged through the transverse fissure into the lateral ventricles, and there forms the velum interpositum and choroid plexus. It is also prolonged into the fourth ventricle, where it forms the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle. On the spinal cord the pia mater has a very different character from that which it presents on the encephalon, so that it has even been described by some as a different membrane under the name neurilemma of the cord. It is thicker, firmer, less vascular, and more adherent to the subjacent nervous matter: its greater strength is owing to its containing fibrous tissue, which is arranged in longitudinal shining bundles. A fold of this membrane dips down into the anterior fissure of the cord, and serves to conduct blood-vessels into that part. A thinner process passes into the greater part of the posterior fissure. At the roots of the nerves, both in the spine and in the cranium, the pia mater becomes continuous with the neurilemma. The pia mater of the cord presents a conspicuous fibrous band, run- ning down in front over the anterior median fissure. This was named by Haller, linea splendens. Structure.—The pia mater consists of interlaced bundles of connec- tive tissue, having a more regular arrangement in the outer and inner layers, wThile in the middle is a network of fine elastic fibres. On the cord the outer fibres are for the most part parallel and longitudinal, and the inner network consists of peculiar stiff fibres bending sud- denly and enclosing angular interspaces. Beneath them is a fine mem- brane continuous with the neuroglia of the cord. On the cord pigmented cells are sometimes scattered among the elastic fibres. The pia mater contains great numbers of blood-vessels, which subdivide in it before they enter the nervous substance. Each vessel lies in a canal, the walls of which are composed of a more dense arrangement of the fibres of the membrane (perivascular canal). The diameter of the canal may be two or three times that of the contained vessel. A similar sheath, derived from the pia mater, accompanies the vessel into the substance of the brain. At its commencement it is loose and funnel- shaped and can be injected from the subarachnoid cavity. On the cerebrum the inner layer of the pia mater is adherent to the cortical substance of the convolutions, but on the cerebellum a space exists between the two, traversed by fibres which pass from the cerebellum to the pia mater. This space is continuous with the intervals between the perivascular sheaths and the brain substance. According to Fohmann and Arnold, the pia mater contains numerous lymphatic vessels. Purkinje describes a retiform arrangement of nervous fibrils, derived, according to Kolliker and others, from the sym- pathetic, the third, sixth, facial, pneumogastric, and accessory nerves. The spinal pia mater is supplied by nerves from the sympathetic. THE ARACHNOID MEMBRANE. The arachnoid is a delicate membrane which invests the brain and spinal cord, outside the pia mater, and much less closely than that mem-