THE LARYNX. 288 The rima glottidis, an elongated aperture, situated, anteriorly, "between the inferior or true vocal cords, and, posteriorly, between the "bases of the arytenoid cartilages, forms a long narrow slit, slightly wider in the'centre when nearly closed, as in the production of the voice (fig. 191, a') ; when moderately open, as in easy respiration, its- shape is that of a long triangle, the pointed extremity being directed forwards, and the base being behind, between the arytenoid car- tilages (b) ; in its fully dilated condition it is lozenge-shaped (the pos- terior sides being formed by the inner sides of the bases of the aryte- noid cartilages), while the posterior angle is truncated (c). The rima glottidis is the narrowest part of the interior of the larynx; in the adult male it measures about eleven lines or nearly an inch in an antero-posterior direction, and three or four lines across at its widest part, which may be dilated to nearly half an inch. In the female, and in males before the age of puberty, its dimensions are less, its antero- posterior diameter being about eight lines, and its transverse diameter about two. The vocal cords are about seven lines long in the adult male, and five in the female. The ventricles, or sinuses of the larynx (fig. 190, s, and fig. 192, V), are narrower at their orifice than in their interior. The outer surface of each is covered by the upper fibres of the corresponding thyroaryte- noid muscle. The small culs-de-sac named the laryngeal pouches (fig. 190, s), lead from the anterior part of the ventricles upwards, for the space of half an inch, between the superior vocal cords inside, and the thyroid cartilage outside, reaching as high as the upper border of that cartilage at the side of the epiglottis. The pouch is conical in shape, and curved slightly backwards. Its opening into the ventricle is narrow^ and is generally marked by two folds of the lining mucous mem- brane. Numerous small mucous glands, sixty or seventy in number, open into its interior, and it is surrounded by a quantity of fat. Ex- ternally to the fat, this little pouch receives a fibrous investment, which is continuous below with the superior vocal cord. Over its laryngeal side and upper end is a thin layer of muscular fibres (compressor sacculi laryngis, arytasno-epiglottideus inferior, Hilton) connected above with those found in the aryteno-epiglottidean folds. The upper fibres of the thyro-arytenoid muscles pass over the outer side of the pouch, a few being attached to its lower part. The laryngeal pouch is supplied abundantly with nerves, derived from the superior laryngeal. MUSCLES OF THE LAHYNX. Besides certain extrinsic muscles elsewhere described—viz., the sterno-hyoid, omo-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and thyro-hyoid muscles„ together with the muscles of the suprahyoid region, and the middle and inferior constrictors of the pharynx, all of which act more or less upon the entire larynx—there are certain intrinsic muscles which move the different cartilages upon one another, and modify the size of the apertures and the state of tension of the soft parts. These intrinsic muscles are the crico-thyroid, the posterior and lateral crico-arytenoid, the thyro-arytenoid, the arytenoid, and the aryteiio-epiglottidean, together with certain other slender muscular fasciculi. All these muscles, except the arytenoid, which crosses the middle line, are in pairs.