47 STRUCTURE OF CILIATED EPITHELIUM. The fact of the conveyance of fluids and other matters along the ciliated surface, as well as the direction in which they are impelled, may also be made manifest by immersing the membrane in fluid, and dropping on it some finely pulverised substance (such as charcoal in fine powder), which will be slowly but steadily carried along in a constant and deter- minate direction; and this may be seen with the naked eye, or with the aid of a lens of low power. The ciliary motion of the human mucous membrane is beautifully seen on the surface of recently extracted nasal polypi : and single ciliated particles, with their cilia still in motion, are sometimes sepa- rated accidentally from mucous surfaces in the living body, and may be discovered in the discharged mucus; or they may even be purposely detached by gentle abrasion, But the extent and limits of the ciliated epithelium of the human body have been determined chiefly from its anatomical characters. Cilia have now been shown to exist in almost every class of animals, from the highest to the lowest. The immediate purpose which they serve is, to impel matter, generally more or less fluid, along the surfaces on which they are attached ; or, to propel through a liquid medium the ciliated bodies of minute animals, or other small objects on the surface of which cilia are present; as is the case with many infusorial animal- cules, in which the cilia serve as organs of locomotion like the fins of larger aquatic animals, and as happens, too, in the ova of many verte- brate as well as invertebrate animals, where the yelk revolves in its surrounding fluid by the aid of cilia on its surface. In many of the lower tribes of aquatic animals, the cilia acquire a high degree of importance: producing the flow of water over the surface of their organs of respiration, indis- pensable to the exercise of that Fig. 24. function; enabling the animals to seize their prey, or swallow their food, and performing- various other offices of greater or less importance in their economy. In man, and the warm-blooded animals, their use is apparently to impel secreted fluids or other mat- ters along the ciliated surface, as, for example, the mucus of the windpipe and nasal sinus- es, which they carry towards the outlet of these cavities. Structure.—The cells of the ciliated epithelium (fig. 24) contain clear oval nu- clei ; their protoplasm is commonly granular, but the free border of the cell from _. „ rl « „ i • i , . Fig. 24.— Ciliated Epithelium Cells from which the cilia appear to spring trachea of Cat; magnified about 600 presents a bright appearance diameters (Klein), (fig. 21). They have most generally an elongated form, like the particles of the columnar