G45 THE MEMBRANOUS LABYRINTH. the jugular fossa, and transmits a small vein. The scala vestibuli is rather narrower than the scala tympani in the first turn of the cochlea * it commences from the cavity of the vestibule, and communicates, as already described, with the scala tympani at the apex of the modiolus. THE MEMBRANOUS LABYRINTH. As before stated, within the_ osseous labyrinth, and separated from its lining membrane by the perilymph, membranous structures exist in which the ultimate ramifica- tions of the auditory nerve Fig. 458. are spread. In the vestibule and semicircular canals these structures have a general re- semblance in form to the com- plicated cavity in which they are contained. They do not, however, lie loose within the osseous cavity, as would ap- pear from fig. 458, but are more or less united with its lining periosteum by fibrous bands conveying blood-vessels, which stretch across the space between, and serve thus to fix the membranous sacs and tubes. In the cochlea the membranous structures complete the sep- tum between the scalas already mentioned, and enclose an intermediate passage, the canalis membranaceus. As before stated, the liquid con- tained within the membranous labyrinth is distinguished as endolymph. Vestibule. — The mem- branous vestibule consists of two closely connected sacs, and the parts by which they are united to the membranous semicircular canals and canal of the cochlea. The larger of the two sacs, the common sinus or utricle (fig. 458, i i)} is of an oblong form, slightly flattened from without inwards. It is lodged in the upper and back part of the osseous vestibule, occupy- ing the fovea hemi-elliptica. Opposite the crista vestibuli several small branches of the auditory nerve enter from the foramina in the bone ; and here the walls of the common sinus are thicker and more opaque than elsewhere. A small mass of calcareous particles, otoliths or otoconia, Fig. 458.—The Interior of the Left Laby- rinth with its Membranous Parts and Nerves (from Breschet). Magnified. The outer wall of the osseous labyrinth is in part removed so as to display the membranous parts within. u, scala vestibuli ; t, scala tympani of the cochlea : s, s, lamina spiralis ; i, i, utriculus or common sinus with its group of otoliths, h;l,l, saccule with its otoliths ; a, mem- branous ampulla of the superior semicircular canal, d ; b, ampulla of the horizontal, e, and c, that of the posterior semicircular canal, / ; n, anterior division of the auditory nerve giv- ing branches, q, o, p, io the utricle and the am- pullae of the superior and external canals ; g, the united part of the superior and posterior canals ; It, the posterior extremity of the external canal; * *, space containing perilymph.