DEVELOPMENT OF THE SKELETON. 725 II. DEVELOPMENT OF PARTICULAR SYSTEMS AND ORGANS OP THE BODY. THE SKELETON AND ORGANS OF VOLUNTARY MOTION. The morphological development of the skeleton and organs of voluntary motion is closely in accordance with the general plan of development which belongs to the whole vertebrate body. The first steps are connected with the formation of the strictly axial part, consisting of the enclosing walls of the cranio-vertebral cavity for containing the rudiments of the brain and spinal marrow, and for the issue of the successive pairs of nerves arising from them. These are succeeded by the formation of the walk of the great visceral cavities of the head and trunk, in which the facial and costal arches are to be distinguished ; and lastly, the appendicular parts, or the limbs and limb-arches, are developed. The permanent forms of these parts are only produced in the process of ossification; but the rudiments of most of them are already to be distinguished in the masses of cartilage or formative tissue which precede the ossifying change. As the mode of ossification of the several bones has been described in the osteological part of the work, and the histological view of the process of formation of bone has been given in the part on General Anatomy, the morphological view of the development will alone be referred to in this place, in which will be included the more important phenomena of the preparation of the matrix or formative material for the various parts of the skeleton. Fig. 525.—Embryo of the Dog seek from above, wiTH a Portion of the Blastoderm attached. The medullary canal is not yet closed, but shows the dilatation at the cephalic extremity with a partial division into the three primary cerebral vesicles ; the posterior extremity shows a rhomboidal enlargement. The cephalic fold crosses below the middle cerebral vesicle. Six primordial vertebral divisions are visible ; so, the upper division of the blastoderm ; sp, the lower division. 1. VERTEBRAL COLUMN AND TRUNK. delation of Vertebral Budiments to the Hotochord.—It has already been shown (General Phenomena of Development, p. 692), that all the parts of the skeleton owe their primitive formative material to mesoblastic elements, and that the bodies and arches of the vertebrae, and the adjacent part of the cranial walls are formed from continuous blastodermic substance lying below and around the primitive medullary canal. A part also of the basis of the cranium has this in common with the vertebral axis, that its formative substance surrounds the notochord, extending for- ward from the column of the vertebral bodies into the occipito-sphenoid part of the cranial basis, which is there composed of the formative substance termed the investing mass of Ratlike. It is to be remembered, however, that closely as the formative tissue