678 THE OVUM AND BLASTODERM. just in proportion to the respective limits of the germinal and nutritive' parts of the yolk; but always affecting first the germinal part, and extending subsequently outwards from the germinal pole as a centre. The process of segmentation has not been seen in the human subject^ for the human ovum has not yet been detected in the progress of its descent through the Fallopian tubes ; but the phenomena have been observed with care by Bischoff and others in a variety of mammi- ferous animals, and as no important differences have been found to occur among them, there is no reason to doubt the similarity of the process in man. The yolk cleavage sets in within a few hours of the entrance of the mammiferous ovum into the tube, and continues to pro- gress regularly during its descent towards the uterus, soon after its arrival in which the process is completed. The duration of this varies in different animals, being not more than from three to four days in the rabbit, in which it is the shortest known, and extending to from seven to eight days in the dog. It probably occupies not less than eight days- in the human subject. In the bird's egg the segmentation of the cicatricula is accomplished between the time of the entrance of the yolk into the oviduct and that of its being laid with its albuminous, membranous, and shell coverings, which may vary from 16 or 20 to 24 or 30 hours ; and there may be some difference in the degree of completeness of the segmenting pro- cess at the time of the exclusion of the egg, according to the time the egg has taken to pass through the oviduct, the season of the year, and other circumstances. Fig. 493. Fig. 493.—Ovum op the Rabbit SIXTY-EIGHT HOURS AFTER IM- PREGNATION (Allen Thomson). 250 _ This ovum is probably in the sixth stage of segmentation. Sper- matozoa were observed within the zona, z, the zona ; a, the thick layer of albumen peculiar to the rabbit's ovum at this stage. a. Segmentation of the mammal's ovum.—This pro- cess may be shortly de- scribed as follows :—First the whole mass of yolk- protoplasm, contracted as before mentioned, splits into two somewhat ovoicl or el- lipsoid masses, by the for- mation of a fissure which begins on the surface and '"' ""^^ speedily runs through the whole thickness of the yolk (fig. 492, b). # The two masses so formed lie somewhat pressed together within the vitelline membrane; each mass presenting nearly the same appearance and structure as the whole yolk did previous to its cleavage. JBut as soon as this change has taken place, and according to some