186 LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. longer known. Rusconi found that the aorta and mesenteric arteries of amphibian reptiles are inclosed in large lymphatic spaces. Johannes Miiller recognised the spaces which so extensively separate the frog's skin from the subjacent muscles as belonging to the lymphatic system, and Von Recklinghausen has shown that the subcutaneous lymph-spaces of the frog's leg communicate with lymphatic vessels which envelope the blood-vessels of the foot ; also that milk injected into these spaces finds its way into the blood. The lymphatic system, in being thus partly constituted by lacunar or insterstitial receptacles, so far agrees with the sanguiferous system of crustaceans and insects. It has been sometimes maintained that the lymphatics of glandular organs communicate at their origin with the ducts ; but, although it is no uncommon thing for matters artificially injected into the ducts of glands, as, for instance, those of the liver and testicle, to pass into the lymphatics, a careful examination of such cases leads to the conclusion that the injected material does not find its way from the ducts into the lymphatics by any naturally existing communication, but by accidental rupture of contiguous walls of the two classes of vessels. Structure.—In structure the larger lymphatic vessels much resemble the veins, only their coats are thinner, so thin and transparent indeed that the contained fluid can be readily seen through them. When lymphatics have passed out from the commencing plexuses and lacuna?, they are found to have three coats. The internal coat is covered with an epithelioid lining, consisting of a single layer of flattened nucleated cells, which have mostly an oblong or lanceolate figure, with an indented or bluntly serrated border, by which the adjacent cells fit to each other (fig. 124, a). Beneath the epithelioid layer the innei coat is formed of a layer or layers of longitudinal elastic fibres. The middle coat consists of plain muscular tissue disposed circularly, mixed with finely reticu- lating elastic fibres taking the same direction. The external coat is composed mainly of white connective tissue with a sparing intermix- ture of longitudinal elastic fibres, and some longitudinal and oblique bundles of plain muscular tissue. In the thoracic duct there is a subepithelial layer (as in the arteries); and in the middle coat there is a longitudinal layer of white connective tissue with elastic fibres, immediately within the muscular layer. The larger lymphatics receive vasa vasorum, which ramify in their outer and middle coats : nerves distributed to them have not yet been discovered, although their existence is inferred on physiological grounds. That the lymphatics are endowed with vital contractility is shown by the effect of mechanical irritation applied to the thoracic duct, as well as by the general shrinking and emptying of the lacteal and lymphatic vessels on their exposure to the contact of cold air, in the bodies of animals opened immediately after death. The commencing lymphatics or " lymphatics of origin," whether in plexuses or single (as in the villi), have a much simpler structure, their wall being entirely formed of a layer of flattened epithelioid cells either similar in form to those lining the larger vessels or (more frequently) presenting a characteristic waved border like the epidermic cells of grasses and some other plants (figs. 124, b, 126, a). The outlines of the cells are brought into view by staining with nitrate of silver, after which the nuclei may be made to appear by means of carmine or hematoxylin. Helation of the lymphatics of origin to the cells and cell-spaces of the connective tissue.—It has been already stated (p. 57) that the cells of the connective tissue lie in spaces in the ground-substance