THE OVUM AND BLASTODERM. ■636 Kolliker, M. Barry, Bischoff, Coste, and Remak. The knowledge of the develop- ment of the ovum and embryo of mammalia was especially advanced in the suc- ceeding decennial period by the valuable memoirs of Bischoff on the rabbit, dog, guinea-pig, and roe-deer, published successively between 1847 and 1854, and an important addition was made to the history of human development and that of some animals by the publication of the elegant and elaborate work of Coste in 1847 and several following years. To the careful observations of Remak more particularly, as described in his work on the development of the fowl and the frog, published in 1851-54, we owe the fullest and most consistent account of the structure and formation of the blastoderm and of the relation of its several parts to the earlier phenomena of embryonic development. The Lectures of Kolliker, published in 1861, formed the most valuable addition to the history of development in the ten years suc- ceeding the publication of the researches of Remak. In 1S68 the blastoderm and its early transformations were subjected to renewed examination in the elaborate researches of His (Untersuch. lib. die erste Anlage des Wirbelthierleibes). In the succeeding years appeared the varied researches of Dursy on the development of the head, Waldeyer on the ovaries, Oellacher on birds and fishes, and G-oette on batrachia and birds, and numerous others, so that every year brings forth numerous original contributions to different departments of the subject. In 1874 there appeared the first English treatise on the development of the embryo since the time of Harvey, in the excellent " Elements of Embryology," by M. Foster and F. M. Balfour—the latter of whom is also the author of im- portant original researches quoted in the comse of this section. In the same year a short and useful systematic work on the Embryology of Vertebrate animals has appeared by Dr. Schenk of Vienna. Origin of the Mesoblast.—Although there is the general agreement before indicated among embiyologists as to the trilaminar structure of the blastoderm in the ovum of the higher vertebrates, when it has made some progress in development, and as to the g'eneral relation of the several layers to the produc- tion of the systems and organs of the embryo, there is by no means the same unanimity of views as to the manner in which the different layers, and more especially the lower and middle layers, come into existence. Fig. 497. Fig. 497.—Microscopic view of a vertical section through the Blastoderm op the Bird's Egg after twelve hours op incubation. (From Strieker.) S, upper layer of cells or epiblast; D, lower layer now forming a single continuous ]ayer of flat cells, or hypoblast; M, large formative cells beginning to form the middle layer, or mesoblast; A, subgerminal part of the yolk. In the egg of the fowl the cells of the middle layer begin to make their appear- ance in the central part of the blastoderm between the two original or primitive layers from the eighth to the twelfth hour of incubation, while about the same time a lower layer becomes distinct, as before stated, by the arrangement in a single layer of the lowest cells, their assumption of the flattened form, and their mutual union somewhat after the manner of a pavement-like epithelium. But while this is apparent towards the centre of the blastoderm there is accumulated towards the periphery in a thickened zone (opaque area) a quantity of cells of larger size and granular aspect in which no division into an under