FARTHER DEVELOPMENT OF THE GENITAL PASSAGES. 819 the Mullerian ducts into their passages, and in the abortive disappear- ance of the greater part of the Wolffian ducts ; while in the male the ducts of Miiller suffer in a great measure the abortive retrogradation, and the seminal conducting tubes are produced out of canals formed within special parts of the Wolffian body and the whole of the Wolffian duct. But as in all embryoes of whatever sex both sets of tubes are originally present, while a different one of the original tubes becomes developed into the respective permanent conducting passages, vestiges of the other original tubes are invariably present in various degrees in both sexes. The Female passages.—In the female, the vagina, uterus, and Fallopian tubes are formed out of the Mullerian ducts. That portion of the ducts in which they become fused together is developed into the vagina, the cervix, and part of the body of the uterus; and the pecu- Fig. 612. — Dia- Fig. 61; GRAM OF THE FE- MALE Type of Sexual Organs. This and figure 615 represent dia- grammatically a state of the parts not actually visi- ble at one time ; but they are in- tended to i illustrate the general type in the two sexes, and more particularly the relation of the two conducting tubes to the develop - ment of one as the natural passage in either sex, and to the natural occur- rence of vestiges of the other tube, as well as to the per- sistence of the whole or parts of both tubes in occasional instances of herma- phroditic nature. I, the left kid- ney ; 2, suprarenal body ; 3, ureter, of which a part is re- moved to show the parts passing within it ; 4, urinary bladder ; 5, urachus ; o, the left ovary nearly in the place of its original formation ; p o, parovarium, epoophoron of Waldeyer ; W, scattered remains of Wolffian tubes near it, paroophoron of Waldeyer ; d G, remains of the left Wolffian duct, such as give rise to the duct of Gaertner, represented by dotted lines ; that of the right side cut short is marked w ; /, the abdominal opening of the left Fallopian tube ; u, the upper part of the body of the uterus, presenting a slight appear- ance of division into cornua ; the Fallopian tube of the right side cut short is marked vi; g, round ligament, corresponding to gubernaculum ; i, lower part of the intestine ; v a, vagina; h, situation of the hymen ; C, gland of Bartholin (Cowper's gland), and immediately above it the urethra ; c c, corpus cavernosum clitoridis ; s c, vascular bulb or corpus spongiosum ; n, nympha ; I, labium ; v, vulva.