THE TYMPANUM. 637 stapes, enclose a small triangular or arched space, which m the recent state is occupied by a thin membrane stretched across. _ A shallow groove runs round the opposed surfaces of the bone, and into this the membrane is received. LIGAMENTS AND MUSCLES OP THE TYMPANUM. Ligaments.—In the articulations of the small bones of the ear with one another the connection is strengthened by ligamentous fibres.* Their attachment to the walls of the tympanum is effected partly by the reflections of the mucous membrane lining that cavity, but cnieily by muscles and by the following ligaments. The anterior ligament of the malleus is a compara- 449- tively strong and broad band of, for the most part, short fibres, which connects the an- terior wall of the tympanum close to the Glaserian fissure with the base of the processus gracilis and the anterior part of the body of the malleus. The suspensory ligament of the malleus consists of a small bundle of fibres, which passes downwards and outwards from the roof of the tympa- num to the head of the malleus, and serves to check its movement in an outward direction. The posterior ligament of the incus extends from near the point of the short eras directly backwards towards the posterior wall of the tym- panum, where it is attached near to the entrance to the mastoid cells. Arnold describes an upper liga- ment which attaches the incus, near its articulation with the malleus, to the roof of the tym- panum. Muscles. — There are three well-determined mus- cles of the tympanum. Som- merring describes four, and some authors a larger number ; but the descriptions of these last mus- cles are not confirmed by later research. Of the three muscles generally recognised, two are attached to the malleus, and one to the stapes. * These articulations are commonly described as synovial joints, but, according to Brunner (Knapp and Moos' ArcMv, 1874), they are more of the nature of symphyses, with fibrocartilage between the contiguous surfaces. Fig. 449.—View op the Cavity op the Right Tympanum prom above. The cavity of the tympanum and a part of the labyrinth have been exposed by a horizontal section removing the upper part of the temporal bone. 1, posterior semicircular canal opened ; 2, the cavity of the cochlea opened ; 3, osseous part of the Eustachian tube ; 4, head of the malleus ; 5, incus ; 6, stapes, with its base set in the fenestra ovalis ; 7, tensor tympani muscle ; 8, stapedius.