AORTIC VALVE. 251 thicker and stronger in all its parts, and consists of only two pointed segments, continuous at their attached bases. The larger of the two segments is suspended obliquely to the right and in front of the other, between the auricular and aortic openings : the smaller to the left and posteriorly, and close to the wall of the ventricle. There is usually a smaller lobe at each angle of junction of the two principal segments, more apparent than those between the segments of the tricuspid valve. As on the right side, the two sets of chorda? tendinea? from the papillary muscles proceed each to an angle between the two segments, and are attached in like manner to their margins and ventricular sur- faces (fig. 173, B, e, e), so that the musculi papillares, when they contract, tend to bring the edges of the flaps together. The chorda? tendineae are stronger and less numerous than in the right ventricle. The arterial or aortic orifice circular in form, and smaller than the auricular, is separated from it only by the attachment of the anterior segment of the mitral valve. As in the pulmonary artery, its valve consists of three semicircular flaps {semilunar or sigmoid,) (fig. 172, II) each of which is attached by its Fig. 172. I Fig. 172.—The Semilunar Valves op the Aorta and Pulmonary Artery, seen from their Distal Side (Allen Thomson). I, transverse section of the pulmonary artery immediately above the attachment of the semilunar valves : a, the left, and c, the right anterior segments; b, the posterior segment : opposite each the sinus of Valsalva is seen, and between them the attachment of the valve-segments to the inner wall of the artery. II, a similar section of the aorta: a, the left posterior segment, and b, the anterior segment, with the corresponding sinuses of Valsalva, from which the coronary arteries are seen to take their origin ; c, the right posterior segment ; d, the posterior, and e, the anterior coronary arteries. * A, in each case, as in fig. 171. convex border to the side of the artery at the place where it joins the ventricle, whilst its other border, nearly straight, is free, and projects into the interior of the vessel. The segments are composed of duplicatures of the endocardium, and of enclosed fibrous structure, which varies in thickness at different parts. A tendinous band strengthens the free edge of the valve, and at the middle of that margin there is a slight * As a result of the study of sections made from frozen bodies, it would appear that the above nomenclature most correctly describes the natural position of the valve-segments. Those of the pulmonary valve are, however, more commonly known as an anterior, a, and two posterior ; those of the aortic, as a posterior, c, and two anterior.