410 THE KIDNEYS. Fig. 294. epithelium dips down between the bunches. The basement membrane, both of the capsule and of the uriniferous tubule, is formed of flat epithelioid cells (fig. 293, a, a'). Blood-vessels. — The kidneys are highly vascu- lar, and receive their blood from the renal arteries, which are very large in proportion to the size of the organs they supply. Each renal artery divides into four or five branches, which, passing in at the hilus, between the vein and ureter, may be traced into the sinus of the kidney, where they lie amongst the infundibula, together with which they are usually embedded in a quantity of fat. Pene- trating the substance of the organ between the pa- pillae, the arterial branches enter the cortical substance found in the intervals be- tween the pyramids of Mal- pighi, and proceed iu this, accompanied by a sheath- ing of areolar tissue, and dividing and subdividing, to reach the bases of the pyramids, where they form arches between the cortical and medullary parts, which how- Fig. 294.—Section of Cortical Substance op Kidney : Human Fcbtus. Highly magnified (Klein). a, glomerulus with, blood-vessels not fully de- veloped ; c, epithelium covering it continuous with d, flattened epithelium lining Bowman's capsule ; /, /, convoluted tubes. Fig. 295. Fig. 295.—Diagram showing the Relation of the Malpighian Body to the Uriniferous Ducts and Blood-vessels (after Bowman). a, one of the interlobular arteries ; a' afferent artery passing into the glomerulus ; c, capsule of the Malpighian body ; t, uriniferous tube ; e', e', efferent vessels which subdivide in the plexus surrounding the tube, and finally terminate in the branch of the renal vein, e. ever are not complete, and in this respect differ from the freely anastomosing venous arches which accompany them. From the arches smaller "interlobular" arteries (fig. 296, ai) are given off, which pass outwards between the double layers of Malpighian capsules which intervene between the pyramids of Ferrein ; and from these interlobular arteries are derived the afferent arteries of the glomeruli. The renal arteries give branches likewise to the capsule of the kidney which anastomose with branches of the lumbar arteries, and that so freely that Ludwig was able partially to inject the kidneys