CEREBRUM. 522 stem of the laminae, whence they radiate into the cortex. They disappear in the granule layer, and are commonly believed to be continuous with the outer processes of the Fig. 367. corpuscles of Purkinje, but some consider that they arise, in part at least, by the union of the fine fibres of the plexus in which the granules of the outer layer are embedded. Fig. 367.—From the Outer Layer of the Cerebellum (from a drawing by Mr. H. R. 0. Sankey). Processes of the Corpuscles of Purkinje, connected, by their finer Branches, with the Corpuscles of the Outer Layer. (Highly magnified.) The structure of the cor- pus dentatum resembles that of the olivary body. Stel- late Cells, o^1 ^0 aWoth inch in size, lie in several layers, among a plexus of finer nerve fibres, passing in various directions, but chiefly from without inwards. THE CEREBRUM. The cerebrum, or brain proper, constitutes the highest and much the largest portion of the encephalon. It consists of the following parts, viz., the peduncular masses of the crura cerebri and processus a cerebello ad cerebrum ; the series of eminences or cerebral centres or ganglia concealed from view, named corpora quadrigemina, optic thalami and corpora striata; the cerebral hemispheres, which are by far the most bulky part of the cerebrum; various commissural structures including the corpus callosum and fornix; and lastly some smaller structures, viz., the pineal and the pituitary bodies, and the olfactory bulbs. EXTERIOR OP THE CEREBRUM. The cerebral hemis]jJ-ieres together form an ovoid mass, flattened on its under side, and placed in the cranium with its smaller end forwards, its greatest width being opposite to the parietal eminences. They are separated in the greater part of their extent by the great longitu- dinal fissure. Each cerebral hemisphere has an outer, convex surface, in contact with the vault of the cranium; an inner or median, flat surface, which forms one side of the longitudinal fissure; and an irregular under surface, in which is a deep cleft, the fissure of Sylvius. In front of this