US PARTS OF THE TESTICLE. THE TESTICLES. The testes, or principal reproductive glands (Si%ios, opxis), are suspended obliquely in the scrotum by means of the cord and membranes already described ; they are usually placed at unequal heights, that of the left side being lower than the other. They are of an ovoid form, but are slightly compressed laterally, so that they have two somewhat flattened sides or faces, an upper and a lower end, an anterior and a posterior border. They are about an inch and a half long, an inch and a quarter wide from back to front, arid nearly an inch thick from side to side. The weight of each varies from three-quarters of an ounce to an ounce, the left being often a little the larger of the two. The front and sides of the testicle, together with the upper and the lower ends, are free, smooth, and closely invested by the tunica vaginalis. The posterior border is attached to the spermatic cord, and it is here that the vessels and nerves enter or pass out. When the testis is sus- pended in its usual position, its upper end is directed obliquely forwards and outwards, as well as upwards, whilst the lower, which is rather smaller, has the opposite direction. It follows from this that the pos- terior or attached border is turned upwards and inwards, and the outer flattened face slightly backwards. Attached to the posterior border of the gland, and resting also on the neighbouring portion of its outer face, is placed a long narrow body, the epididymis, which forms part of the excretory apparatus of the testicle, and is principally composed of the convolutions of a long tortuous canal or efferent duct, to be presently described. Its upper extremity, con- siderably larger than the lower, projects forwards on the upper end of the testis, and is named the head or globus major ; the lower, which is more pointed, is termed the tail, or globus minor ; whilst the intervening- Fig. 318.—Transverse Section through the Fig. 318. Right Testicle and the Tunica Vaginalis (from Kolliker). e j $ fp ^fi a, connective tissue enveloping the parietal layer of the tunica vaginalis ; b, this layer itself ; c, cavity of the tunica vaginalis ; d, reflected or visceral layer adhering to e, the tunica albuginea ; /, covering of epididymis ([/) on the right or outer side ; h, medias- tinum testis ; i, branches of the spermatic artery ; I; spermatic vein ; I, vas deferens ; m, small artery of the vas deferens ; n, lobules of the testis ; o, septa or processes from the mediastinum to the surface. portion is named the body. The convex surface of the epididymis and the thin,an- terior border are free, and covered by the tunica vaginalis. The concave surface, or that directed towards the testis, except at the upper and lower ends, is also free, and invested by the same tunic, which here forms the digital pouch between the epididymis and the outer face of the testicle, and nearly surrounds the epididy- mis, except along its posterior border, wdrich is united to the gland by a duplicature of the serous membrane, containing numerous blood- vessels. At its upper and lower extremity, the epididymis is attached to the testicle by fibrous tissue and a reflection of the tunica vaginalis, the globus major also by the efferent ducts of the testicle.