VESSELS OF SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. 203 their offsets form a close network of anastomosing channels which, as Reyher has proved,* are occupied by cell-protoplasm (fig. 135). Such networks are met with more frequently in some animals (ox) than in man. The cells of the vaginal synovial membrane are often slightly elongated in the direction of the axis of the tendon. The articular synovial membranes pass, as before said, a certain Fig. 136. Fig. 136.—Transition of Cartilage Cells into Connective Tissue Cor- puscles of Synovial Membrane. About 340 Diameters. From Head of Metatarsal Bone, Human. a, ordinary cartilage cells ; b, b, with branched processes. distance over the car- tilages of the joints. They do not, how- ever, end abruptly, but shade off gradually into the surface layer of cartilage, the fibrous tissue disappearing and the cells gradually losing their processes and becoming transformed into cartilage cells (fig. 136), so that it is difficult to say for certain where the one begins and the other ends. This portion of the synovial membrane, which overlies the edge of the cartilage, is known as the "marginal zone ;" it is most marked around the convex heads of the bones, and is especially well seen near the lower margin of the patella (Hiiter). The Haversian folds and fringes, at least the larger ones, agree in general structure with the rest of the tissue of the synovial membrane, (except that, as before remarked, some of them contain fat); their surface layer contains for the most part irregularly stellate cells, except over the fat, where we have occasionally observed a true epithelioid arrange- ment like that of a serous membrane. The smaller non-vascular secondary fringes of Rainey are minute finger-shaped processes pro- jecting from the margins of the larger ones, and consist for the most part of small rounded cells with granular protoplasm and but little intercellular substance ; some of them may contain a few connective tissue fibrils or even one or two cartilage-cells (Kolliker). Vessels.—The blood-vessels in and immediately underneath the membrane are sufficiently manifest in most parts of the joints. They advance but a little way upon the cartilages, forming a vascular zone around the margin of each, named " circulus articuli vasculosus " (W. Hunter), in which they end by loops of vessels dilated at the bent part greatly beyond the diameter of ordinary capillaries (Toynbee). In the foetus, these vessels advance further upon the surface of the cartilage. The vessels of the vaginal synovial membranes are less numerous than those of the synovial membranes of the joints. * Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, May, 1874.