135 NERVE-CELLS. brown patches caused by groups of pigment granules (fig. 90, b); the colour is deeper in adult age than in infancy. The bodies in question are destitute of a proper envelope. The out- runners or branches are formed by prolongations of the same soft sub- stance which forms the cell-body ; they are, therefore, very readily broken, and the cells thereby mutilated, in the manipulation required for their insulation. A fibrillation similar to that in the axis-cylinders ■of medullated nerve-fibres is seen in these processes (figs. 88, 89) ; it may be observed also passing from them through the body of the cell, and from one process to another ; we have, however, never succeeded in tracing any connection of these fibrils with either the nucleus or the nucleolus of the cell as has been affirmed by some. According to Deiters, one process (and only one) of each of the cells of the grey matter of the spinal cord passes directly into the axis- cylinder of a nerve-fibre, as represented in figs. 89, 90. This process he describes as being unbranched from the commencement. The other processes divide into finer and finer branches, but what becomes of the ultimate divisions is not certainly known. The fibrils resulting from the repeated divisions join, it is said, with processes of other cells to form a close network (fig. 90) throughout the grey substance of the cord, and from this network other fibrils may, it is supposed, proceed and unite to form the axis-cylinders of issuing nerves. We may remark, however, that the presence of an undivided axis-cylinder process is by no means so constant in these cells as is commonly described. Other cells (fig. 91, a) are found in which are distinguished chiefly by the pel- lucid, colourless, and homogeneous aspect of the matter contained in them ; such cells possess a nucleus like the rest; they are seldom large, and have usually a simple round or oval figure, but may also be found branched. They occur along with nerve- cells of the kind before described. Lastly, small bodies of the size of human blood- corpuscles and upwards, containing one or more bright specks like nucleoli, abound in the grey matter in certain situations (fig. 91 b, c.) These bodies, which are some- times called "granules" resemble the nuclei of nerve-cells; and it may be a question whether they are not the nuclei of cells in which the cell-matter or protoplasm is very scanty, and accidentally detached in examination. These nucleus-like bodies are very abundant in the superficial grey matter of the cerebellum. In the grey matter of the cerebro-spinal centre, the nerve-cells appear as if imbedded in a sort of matrix of granular substance, interposed between them in greater or less quantity, and very generally traversed by nerve- fibres. But it is very probable that the appearance of granular or molecular matter results from a confused interlacement of very fine fibrils, and especially of the fine ramifications of nerve-cells; or from the nervous substance, Fig. 91. Fig. 91.—Small Cells from, the Nervous Centres. a, from the (cortical) grey matter of the brain, b and c are from the cortical substance of the cerebellum ; b resemble detached cell-nuclei. c are smaller bodies, also like cell- nuclei, densely aggregated (from Hannover, magnified 340 diameters).