211 STRUCTURE OF THE CUTICLE. and soda. Fat has been obtained by analysis of pulmonary mucus, reputed healthy. The mucus is secreted partly by the general surface of the membrane, partly "by special racemose and tubular glands. It is produced within the epithelium- cells, and accumulates in them during the intervals of secretion, in the columnar epithelium principally near the free extremity. On the addition of water the mucus swells up, and may eventually burst through the end of the cell, appearing on the surface as a pellucid drop. The nucleus and the greater part of the cell- protoplasm are usually forced towards the attached extremity. It is in this manner that the so-called " goblet-cells" appear to be produced : occasionally, in the process of preparing a mucous membrane for microscopical examination, large numbers of the cells may undergo the transformation (fig. 139*). Regeneration.—The reparatory process is active in the mucous membranes. Breaches of continuity occasioned by sloughing, ulceration, or other causes, readily heal. The steps of the process have been examined with most care in the healing of ulcers of the large intestine, and in such cases it has been found that the resulting cicatrix becomes covered with epithelium, but that the tubular glands are not reproduced. The mucous membrane of the uterus becomes disintegrated and cast off during each menstrual flow, and is completely regenerated before the next monthly period. The process of destruction and renovation has recently been carefully traced and described by Dr. John Williams (Proceedings of the Royal Society, April, 1874). THE SKIN. The skin consists of the cutis vera or corium, and the cuticle or •epidermis. EPIDERMIS, CUTICLE, OR SCARF-SKIN. This belongs to the class of stratified epithelia, the general nature of which has been already considered. It forms a protective cover- ing over every part of the true skin, and is itself non-vascular. The thickness of the cuticle varies in different parts of the surface, measuring in some not more than -^io^hj an(i iQ others from JTth to ^2-th of an inch. It is thickest in the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, where the skin is much exposed to pressure, and it is not improbable that this may serve to stimulate the subjacent true skin to a more active formation of epidermis ; but the difference •does not depend solely on external causes, for it is well marked even in the foetus. Structure.—The cuticle is made up of cells agglutinated together in many irregular layers. The deepest cells are elongated in figure, and placed perpendicularly on the surface of the corium (figs. 140 b and 144); they are denticulate at their lower ends, and fit into corresponding fine -denticulations of the corium into which they appear to send processes (fig. 144). The perpendicular cells generally form one, but in some places two or three strata; above them are cells of a more rounded shape. These, as first shown by Max Schultze and Virchow, are marked on their surface with numerous ridges and furrows (in some •cases with minute spines). The ridges of neighbouring cells do not, however, interlock one with another as was at first supposed, but on the contrary, meet at their summits so as to leave between the cells fine channels through which it is conceived nutrient plasma may be conducted to the cells. These ridged cells form several strata ; above, they become gradually more flattened conformably to the surface until a layer is reached in which it becomes difficult in sections to trace the p 2