NON-MEDULLATED FIBRES. 131 along their length, and contracted in the intervals between the dilated parts. Such fibres have been named varicose (fig. 84). They occur principally in the brain and spinal cord, and in the intra-cranial part of the olfactory, in the optic, and acoustic nerves ; they are occasion- ally met with also in the other nerves, especially in young animals. These fibres, however, are naturally cylindrical like the rest, and continue so while they remain undisturbed in their place ; and the varicose character is occasioned by pressure or traction during the manipulation, which causes the soft matter to accumulate at certain points, whilst it is drawn out and attenuated at others. Most probably the change takes place before the white substance has coagulated. The fibres in which it is most apt to occur are usually of small size, ranging from ts^o^- *° Wtjoth of an inch in diameter ; and when a very small fibre is thus affected, the varicosities appear like a string of globules held together by a fine transparent thread. As already remarked, the double contour caused by congelation of the white sub- stance does not appear in the highly constricted parts. The axis takes no part in this change, indeed it may sometimes be seen running through the varicosities and undergoing no corresponding dilatation. Course of the fibres.—Neither in their course along the nervous cords, nor in the white part of the nervous centres, have the medullated fibres ever been observed to unite or anastomose together, nor are they seen to divide into branches; it is therefore fair to conclude that, though bound up in numbers in the same nervous cords, they merely run side by side like the threads in a skein of silk, and that they maintain their individual distinctness throughout the trunk and branches of a nerve ; but in many cases the fibres divide in approaching the peripheral ter- mination of the nerve, as will be again noticed. Grey, Pale, Non-medullated, or Gelatinous Fibres* (fig. 85.) —The white fibres, at the peripheral extremities of many nerves, lay Fig. 85. A. Fig. 85.—Non-medullated Nerve-Fibres (Max Schultze). Magnified between 400 and 500 diameters. A. From a branch of the olfactory nerve of the sheep ; at a, a, two dark bordered or medullated fibres, from the fifth pair, associated with the pale olfactory fibres. B. From the sympathetic nerve. * These fibres were termed "gelatinous" by Henle, from their aspect, not their chemical nature. k 2