THE OVARIES. 478 The zona pellucida of the mature ovarian ovum, when viewed with a low magnifying power, appears clear or homogeneous, but according to some observers, when sufficiently magnified, it presents an appearance of minute radial striatum, which has been considered to indicate in it the existence of a porous structure, somewhat of the same nature as that which is very obvious in the vitelline membrane of fishes and some other animals. Through this membrane, as has been proved by observations in several mammiferous animals, the spermatic filaments pass in order to effect fecundation; but it is difficult to comprehend how they are transmitted, as no micropyle, or other aperture of sufficient size, has yet been detected in the zona of man or Mammals. Fig. 339. Fi°\ 339.— Thin Transverse Section op the Ovary op a Newly Born Ciiild. Highly magnified (Waldeyer). a, Ovarian or germinal epithelium ; b, formation of an ovarian tube ; c, c, ovigerms lying in the germ-epithelium ; d, d, longer tube forming follicles (according to Pfluger's and&Waldeyer's views) ; e, e, germ-spherules forming ova and follicles ; /, earliest dis- tinctly'formed follicle with ovum and granular cells ; cj, g, blood-vessels. The germinal vesicle with its nucleus or macula belongs to the ovum only, while it is still within the Graafian follicle. At the time of complete maturation of the ovum, and even for a short time previous to the bursting of the wall of the follicle by which the ovum escapes, the germinal vesicle already begins to become flaccid and collapse, and when the ovum has escaped from the follicle, the vesicle is no longer to be perceived in the mass of granular protoplasm which con- stitutes its germinal part. Formation of the Ovum and Graafian follicle. — The mode of origin of the ova and Graafian follicles will be described under Development. As con- nected however, with the structure of the ovary in relation to the ova and their origin, it is proper to refer at this place to the view first suggested by