TERMINATION OF NERVES IN MUSCLE. 153 capsule, and passes some way on its wall, sometimes in a spiral direc- tion (Bowman). There is considerable difference of opinion as to the condition of the nerve- fibre in the Pacinian body. Kolliker thinks that it retains its primitive sheath, and is not wholly deprived of its medulla ; and that the surrounding core is com- posed of a nearly homogeneous connective tissue, in which he has seen faintly marked nuclei and faint longitudinal striation.* Engelmann, on the other hand, considers the core to be an expansion of the medullary sheath of the nerve, and ascribes the appearances noticed by Kolliker to changes occurring in the originally homogeneous medulla, as in the case of a white nerve-fibre. The pale fibre within he considers to be simply the axis-cylinder. The core and pale fibre of the end-bulbs he regards in precisely the same way, and thinks it not improbable that the touch-corpuscles will be found to conform. He looks upon the simple capsule of the end-bulb as a development of the primitive nerve-sheath, to which, in the Pacinian bodies, is superadded a series of concentric coats of connective tissue. Engelmann, besides adducing other arguments, refers especially to the structure of the Pacinian bodies of birds, as affording material evidence in support of his view. To us the core of the Pacinian corpuscle seems most nearly to correspond in its anatomical relations with the protoplasmic layer which Ranvier has described as existing, especially in young nerves, between the primitive sheath and the medullary sheath of the nerve-fibre, in which case the innermost capsule of the Pacinian, with its nuclei, would answer to the nucleated sheath of Schwann or primitive sheath of the nerve. For in the first place there can be little doubt that the capsules are expansions of the lamellae of the neurilemma, with which they agree essentially in structure. In the second place, we have never been able to observe any structure resembling a primitive sheath immediately surrounding the nerve as it passes through the core. We have, however, more than once observed a nerve-fibre pass through one Pacinian to end in another, without at all being divested of its medullary sheath as it traversed the core of the first. In such cases, as well as in others, in which the medullary sheath is retained for a certain distance within the core, it is easy to see, in opposition to Engelmann's view, that the substance composing the core presents a marked contrast to the medullary sheath. Neither is it, like the latter, deeply coloured by osmic acid (Michelson) or by chloride of gold, but, on the contrary, is only moderately stained by these re-agents. Nothing positive is known concerning the special purpose in the animal economy which these curious appendages of the nerves are destined to fulfil. In an anatomical sense a Pacinian body might be viewed as a more complex develop- ment of an end-bulb, from which it differs chiefly in the multiplied layers of the capsule. W. Krause endeavours to show that the series of concentric capsules with interposed fluid is an arrangement for converting the effect of mechanical traction into fluid pressure upon the nerve, so that tension and traction of the tissue in which the corpuscle is placed, may be felt and appreciated as ordinary pressure. Then- presence in the mesentery of the cat seems, at first sight, against their importance as sentient organs, but it turns out upon trial, that the part in question is remarkably sensitive. Other special modes of termination of sensory nerves as, for instance, in the organs of special sense, will be most conveniently considered in the description of the organs to which they belong. Termination of nerves in muscle:—A. In plain or unstriped muscle.—Beale, and, after him, Klebs and others, have described the nerves proceeding to the involuntary fibres as finally distributed in networks of non-medullated fibres, with nuclei at intervals. The net- works are at first coarse, and from them proceed finer bundles and * See also Axel Key and Retzius, loc. cit.