413 SUPRARENAL CAPSULES. lobular arteries, receiving capillaries from the cortical substance, and also the straight veins of the pyramids, which commence in a beautiful plexus {vp, fig. 296) around the orifices of the tubuli on the surface of the papillae. The venous trunks then proceed, in company with the arteries, through the cortical septula between the pyramids, to the sinus of the kidney. Joining together, they escape from the hilus, and ultimately form a single vein, which lies in front of the artery, and ends in the inferior vena cava. Lymphatics.—The lymphatics of the kidney are numerous, con- sisting of a superficial set forming a plexus in the fibrous capsule, and of deep lymphatics which issue from the hilus with the blood-vessels. According to the researches of Ludwig and Zawarykin, there appears to be a network of freely intercommunicating lymphatic spaces between the tubules, in communication both with the lymphatics of the surface and those which issue with the blood-vessels at the hilus. These spaces are similar to those previously found by Ludwig and Toms a in the testicle. They are most abundant in the cortical substance. Nerves.—The nerves which have been traced into the kidneys are small. They come immediately from the renal plexus and the lesser splanchnic nerve, and contain filaments derived from both the sympa- thetic and cerebro-spinal systems. They may be traced accompanying the arteries as far as their finer branches, but it is uncertain how they end. Intertubular Stroma.—Between the tubules and vessels of the kidney, although they are disposed closely together, a small amount of interstitial substance of the nature of connective tissue is found. It has a fibrous character in the vicinity of the chief ramifications of the blood-vessels. Fibres are likewise described by Ludwig and Zawarykin as passing around the Malpighian corpuscles, and others by Henle, coiling around the tubes of the medullary substance. The stroma is more marked in the cortical substance, where it consists mainly of con- nective tissue corpuscles, than in the greater part of the medullary ; but according to Henle it is very abundant towards the apices of the papillse. It is much more abundant in animals than in man, and in the human kidney is more apparent in the young than in the adult, and also much richer in corpuscles (fig. 294); in this respect resembling the connective tissue generally. Among writings on the kidney, the following may be here referred to :—Bowman, in Philos. Trans. 1842 ; Henle, Zur Anatomie der Nieren. G-ottingen, 1862, and in his Handbuch ; Lndwig and Zawarykin, in Wiener Acad. Sitzungsbericht. vol. xlviii. 1864; Chrzonszczewsky, in Virchow's Archiv. xxxi. 1864 ; Schweigger- Seidel, Die Nieren des Menschen und der Saiigethiere, Halle, 1865 ; Southey, in St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Reports, 1865 ; Heidenhain Arch. f. Mikr. Anat. x. 1874. Also, on the stroma, Beer, Die Bindesubstanz d. menschlichen Meren, Berlin, 1859. SUPRARENAL BODIES. The suprarenal bodies or capsules, or suprarenal glands (capsulee atrabilarice sen renes succenturiati of old anatomists), are two flattened bodies, each of which has a somewhat crescentic or bent triangular shape, and surmounts the corresponding kidney (fig. 299). The upper border, convex and thin, is often considerably elevated in the middle so