THE LIVER. 384 and is entirely covered by the ribs, except a small portion opposite the substernal notch. Again, during a deep inspiration, the liver descends below the ribs, and in expiration retires upwards behind them. In females it is often permanently forced downwards below the costal car- tilages, owing to the use of tight stays ; sometimes it reaches nearly as low as the crest of the ilium ; and, in many such cases, its convex surface is indented from the pressure of the ribs. To the left of the longitudinal fissure the liver is in contact with the pyloric extremity and anterior surface of the stomach, on which it moves freely. When the stomach is quite empty, the left part of this surface of the liver may overlap the cardiac end of that viscus. To the right of the longitudinal fissure the liver rests upon the first part of the duodenum and the hepatic flexure of the colon. Farther back it is in contact with the upper part of the right kidney and suprarenal capsule. Vessels and Nerves.—The two vessels by which the liver is sup- plied with blood are the hepatic artery and the vena portfe. The he- patic artery (fig. 273, 14), a branch of the cceliac axis, is small in com- parison with the organ to which it is distributed. It enters the trans- verse fissure, and there divides into a right and left branch, for the two principal lobes. By far the greater part of the blood which passes through the liver,— and in this respect it differs from all other organs of the human body,— is conveyed to it by a large vein, the vena portss (fig. 273, 15). This vein is formed by the union of the veins of the stomach, intestines and omenta as well as those of the pancreas and spleen, and also those from the gall-bladder. It enters the transverse fissure, or 'porta, and, like the hepatic artery, divides into two principal branches. The hepatic artery and portal vein, lying in company with the bile- duct, ascend to the liver between the layers of the gastro-hepatic omentum, above the foramen of Winslow, and thus reach the transverse fissure. In this course the bile-duct is to the right, the hepatic artery to the left, and the large portal vein behind the other two. They are accompanied by numerous lymphatic vessels and nerves. The branches of these three vessels accompany one another in their course through the liver nearly to their termination ; and are surrounded for some distance by a common areolar investment (Glisson's capsule), which is prolonged into the interior of the organ. The hepatic veins, which convey the blood away from the liver, pursue through its substance an entirely different course from the other vessels, and pass out at its posterior border, where, at the bottom of the fossa already described, they end by two or three principal branches, besides a number of smaller ones, in the vena cava inferior. The lymphatics of the liver, large and numerous, form a deep and a superficial set. Their mode of origin and distribution will be after- wards described. The nerves are derived partly from the cceliac plexus, and partly from the pneumogastric nerves, especially from the left pneumogastric. They enter the liver supported by the hepatic artery and its branches ; along with which they may be traced a considerable way in the portal canals, but their ultimate distribution is not known. Excretory Apparatus. — The excretory apparatus of the liver consists of the hepatic duct, the cystic duct, the gall-bladder, and the common bile-duct.