THE TUNICA VAGINALIS. 443 obliterated, from the internal abdominal ring down nearly to the testicle, leaving no trace but the indistinct fibrous cord already de- scribed, while the lower part remains as a closed serous sac surrounding the testicle, and which is thence named the tunica vaginalis. In the female foetus an analogous pouch of peritoneum descends for a short distance along the round ligament of the uterus, and has received the appellation of the canal of Nude. Of this traces may almost always be seen in the adult. Varieties.—The neck of the processus vaginalis sometimes becomes closed at intervals only, leaving- a series of sacculi along- the front of the cord ; or a long- pouch may continue open at the upper end. leading from the abdominal cavity into the inguinal canal. In other instances, the peritoneal process remains altogether pervious, and the cavity of the tunica vaginalis is thus made continuous with that of the peritoneum. In such a case of congenital defect, a portion of intestine or omentum may descend from the abdomen into the inguinal canal and scrotum, and constitute what is named a congenital hernia. Lastly, one or both testes may remain permanently within the abdomen, or their descent may be delayed till after puberty, when it may occasion serious disturbance. Retention of the testes in the abdomen (cryptorchismus) is, in many instances, the accom- paniment of arrested development of the glandular structure ; it is, however, a peculiarity which may be present without impotence. In a few mammals, as the elephant, the testes remain permanently within the abdomen ; in a much larger number, as the rodentia, they only descend at each period of rut. The com- plete closure of the tunica Fig. 317. vaginalis is peculiar to man, and may be considered as connected with his adapta- tion to the erect posture. Fig. 317.—The Left Tunica Vaginalis opened, show- ing the Testis, Epididy- mis, &C, FROM THE OUTER SIDE. (A. T.) p, p, the cut edges of the parietal tunica vaginalis drawn aside laterally, as well as above and below ; t, the body of the testicle; e, the globus major of the epididymis; e', the globus minor, near which, /, a fold of the tunica vaginalis (or ligament) passes from the body of the testis to the side ; in the upper part of the figure the tunica vaginalis has been slightly dissected off at the place of its reflection on the • cord to show v d, the vas deferens, and g, the organ of Griraldes ; Gr, the three small nodules of this organ enlarged about ten times, and showing the remains of tubular struc- ture within them; h, hydatid of Morgagni. 6. The tunica vaginalis.—This tunic forms a shut sac, of which the opposite free surfaces are in contact with each other. Like the serous