48 CILIATED EPITHELIUM. epithelium, which they resemble too in arrangement, but are often of greater length and more slender and pointed at their lower end, which is commonly branched. The cilia are attached to their broad or superficial end, each columnar particle bearing a tuft of these minute hair-like processes. In some cases, the cells are spheroidal in figure, the cilia being still, of course, confined to that portion of the cell which forms part of the general surface of the epithelial layer, as shown in fig. 25, whichre presents such cells from the epithelium of the frog's mouth. In man this form occurs in the ciliated epithelium of the cerebral ventricles and tympanum, where the cells form but a single stratum. The co- lumnar ciliated epithelium also may exist as a simple layer, as in the uterus and Fallopian tubes, the finest ramifications of the bronchia, and the central canal of the spinal cord ; but in various other parts—as the nose, pharynx, Eustachian tube, the trachea and its larger divi- sions—there is a layer of elongated cells beneath the superficial ciliated range, filling up the spaces between the pointed extremities of the latter, and beneath this is an undermost layer, formed of small rounded cells. Probably the subjacent cells acquire cilia, and take the place of ciliated cells, which are cast off; but the mode of renovation of ciliated epithelium is not yet fully understood. The relation of the ciliated, as well as other epithelium-cells, to the connective tissue of the subjacent membrane, has much engaged attention since the importance of the connective-tissue-corpuscles has come to be recognised ; and a strong impression or belief prevails that such epithelium-cells are structurally connected by prolongations from their lower ends with these corpuscles, and genetically related to them. As a matter of observation, such anatomical con- nection is affirmed in reference to the columnar ciliated epithelium of the central canal of the spinal cord and the Sylvian aqueduct, (Lockhart Clarke, Gerlach). The cilia themselves differ widely in size in different animals, and they are not equal in all parts of the same animal. In the human windpipe they measure ^^th to ^Vo^ °f an incn *n length ; but in many invertebrate animals, especially such as live in salt water, they are a great deal larger. In figure they have the aspect of slender, conical, or slightly flattened filaments ; broader at the base, and usually pointed at their free extremity. Their substance is transparent, soft, and flexible. It is to all appearance homogeneous, and no fibres, gran- ules, or other indications of definite internal structure, have been satis- factorily demonstrated in it. Motion of tlie cilia.—The manner in which the cilia move, is best seen when they are not acting very briskly. Most generally they seem to execute a sort of fanning or lashing movement; and when a number of them perform this motion in regular succession, as is generally the case, they give rise to the appearance of a series of waves travelling along the range of cilia, like the waves caused by the wind in a field of corn. When they are in very rapid action the undulation is less obvious, and, as Henle remarks, their motion then conveys the idea of swiftly running Fig. 25. Fig. 25.—Spheroidal Ciliated Cells from the Mouth op the Frog ; magnified 300 diameters.