UTEROGESTATION. 720 pass from one extreme branch of the villi to another, within the fibrous <eore of which they are situated, and Schroder van der Kolk has described also a finer superficial network of capillaries distributed below the epithelial covering of the stems and larger branches of the villi. By artificial injections fluids can be made to pass with perfect precision from the umbilical arteries through the capillaries of the villi into the veins, or in the reverse direction from the veins into the arteries. Nor does there ever occur, except from visible accidental rupture of the vessels, either extravasation of the injected material into the intervening tissue, nor any escape into the maternal sinuses. Fig. 523. Fig. 523.—Small Portion of Pla- centa SHOWING THE FffiTAL VlLLI Slightly Magnified (from Irish- man after Weber). The uterine blood-passages, on the other hand, are of the nature of irregular spaces, into which the maternal blood is poured directly by numerous small coiled arteries which, as shown by the Hunters, pierce the external decidua at the uterine surface of the placenta, and open into these blood-spaces without the intervention of any capillary sub- Fig. 524.—Chorionic Villus from the Pla- centa at the Twelfth Week. Enlarged 180 Diameters (from Leishman after Ecker). From a to b, the epithelial covering is left entire ; from a to a it has been removed and the fibrous core with the capillary blood-vessels is shown. division. The result of artificial in- jection of the blood-vessels in the pregnant uterus equally demonstrates the nature of the circulation in the maternal part of the placenta, for it is easy to show by this method, that a fluid thrown into the uterine arteries fills at once all the maternal blood- spaces of the placenta, surrounding everywhere the chorionic or foetal villi, and returns thence into the uterine veins by a number of slanting venous channels, the uteroplacental sinuses, provided with delicate coats, which issue from the placenta at its uterine surface by piercing the decidua serotina, and which are most numerous towards the circumference of the organ, where they are in com- munication with the so-called circular vein or circular sinus previously referred to. Some of these veins may even be traced for some distance into the placenta, in the septa of decidual substance, which are pro-