STRUCTURE OF THE FIBRES. Ill thicker and apparently contracted parts of the fibre, but it is by no means confined to such parts. This cross-striped appearance, which is most beautiful and characteristic, is found in all the voluntary muscles; but it is not altogether confined to them, for it is seen in the fibres of the heart, which is a strictly involuntary organ: striped fibres are also found in the pharynx and upper part of the gullet, in the muscles of the internal ear, and those of the urethra, parts which are not under the direct control of the will. Structure of the fibres.—A muscular fibre may be said to consist of a soft contractile substance inclosed in a tubular sheath. This, the proper sheath of the fibre, is named sarcolemma or myo- lemma. It consists of transparent and apparently homogeneous mem- brane agreeing in chemical characters with elastic tissue, and, being comparatively tough, will sometimes remain entire when the included fibrils are ruptured by stretching the fibre, as represented in fig. 67. In this way its existence may be demonstrated; and it is especially well seen in fish and other animals which have large fibres, for in these it is thicker and stronger. It may also be well shown in fresh muscular fibres from the frog, by exposing them to water under the micro- scope. The fluid is imbibed, and then collects between the substance of the fibre and its sheath so as to separate the membrane and make it apparent. At the same time, as regards mammalian muscles, it must be admitted that it is not always easy to bring the sarcolemma distinctly into view. The proper substance of the fibre presents, besides the cross-striped appearance already mentioned, also an appearance of longitudinal striation, which is the better marked where the transverse striation is less distinct. On separating the fibre with needles, especially after hardening in alcohol or solution of osmic acid, it may be broken up longitudinally into the so-called fibrils, which, when of a certain fineness, appear to consist of a row of dark quadrangular particles (fig. 66 B, V), with bright intervals, the latter being commonly traversed by a dark dotted line, c. These rows of quadrangular particles may, however, be further separated, and the finest of the filaments so obtainable present the appearance of lines regularly broken at short distances with a dot in each of the breaks, d. Each such thread may be looked upon as an ulti- mate fibril. It must, however, be borne in mind that the fibre is not actually composed of these, but that there is in addition a not inconsider- able amount of connecting substance. Under certain circumstances the fibres show a tendency to cleave across in a direction parallel to the stripes, and even to break up into transverse plates or disks, which are formed by the lateral cohesion of the particles of adjacent fibrils. To make up such a disk, therefore, every fibril contributes a particle, which separates from those of its own fibril, but coheres with its neighbour on each side, and this with perfect regularity. Indeed, Bowman con- ceives that the subdivision of a fibre into fibrillae is merely a pheno- menon of the same kind, only of more common occurrence, the cleavage Fig. 67. Fig. 67.—Muscular Fibre of Fish. Substance of Fibre ruptured so as to exhibit Sarcolemma. (After Bowman.)