LAYERS OF THE BLASTODERM. 683 that still later in this disc, when expanded and altered in shape, there is formed the first trace of the embryo. The same distinction, how- ever, as in birds, appears in the end between a transparent or embryonal area, and an opaque peripheral area, a part of which is occupied by the vessels of the first circulation. In birds the blastoderm spreads itself rapidly during the first stages of incubation by cell-multiplication over the surface of the yolk, until at last the whole is covered by its layers; but in mammals, as the yolk is still of comparatively small size after segmentation is complete, but undergoes soon afterwards very rapid and great enlargement, and as it is completely covered by the primitive blastoderm, it is obvious that that membrane must undergo corresponding extension, not by marginal, but by interstitial cellular multiplication. Trilaminar structure.—The bilaminar blastoderm which results directly from segmentation soon undergoes farther changes, by which a third most important element is introduced into its composition, so that, at an early period of development and previous to the actual formation of any part of the embryo, it is found to consist of three layers of cellular elements, placed one above the other. These layers may, from Jiheir relative position on the yolk, be named the outer, middle, and inner blastodermic membranes, ectoderm, mesoderm, and endoderm, or, following the nomenclature of Foster and Balfour, epiblast, mesoblast, and hypoblast, the upper, middle, and lower germs ; and the ovum of birds and mammals may thus, along with that of a consider- able number of animals, be styled triploblastic. The origin of the middle layer is still involved in some obscurity. By one set of observers it is considered to be most closely connected with the original lower layer, and while the original upper layer of the primitive bilaminar blastoderm remains undivided, constituting the epiblast, the looser substance of the original lower layer undergoes a differentiating change, by which there is separated from its under part a thin lamina of flattened united cells to form the hypoblast, while the remaining portion, with rounded cells of a different structure, becomes distinct superiorly, and accumulates between the upper and lower layers, especially towards the centre, to form the foundation of the mesoblast which according to this view would result, like the epiblast and hypoblast, from the primary segmentation. But by other embryologists, it is held that a part, if not the whole, of the mesoblast proceeds from a secondary process of segmentation or cell formation occurring below the original blastoderm; and further, that the new cells which thus give rise to the mesoblast are carried from below towards the place where they form that layer by migratory movements, the nature of which is not yet understood. Leaving the question of the origin of the middle layer for farther remark hereafter, we shall here state in the shortest and most general terms the relation ascertained to subsist between the three several constituents of the organised germ and the origin of the rudiments of the embryo and other parts developed from the ovum. In doing so, if. allowance be made for the differences previously noted, the same description may apply to the fundamental formative processes of birds and of mammals. Relation of the Layers to Development.—With respect to the histogenetic changes which accompany the conversion of parts of the