THE SriNAL CORD. 496 The grey substance, as seen in a transverse section of any part of the cord, presents two crescent-shaped masses, placed one in each lateral half, with their convexities towards one another, and joined across the middle by a transverse portion, the grey or posterior commissure of the cord. Each of these grey crescents .has an anterior and. a,posterior cormi or horn. The posterior, generally longer and narrower, approaches the posterior lateral fissure : the anterior, shorter and thicker, extends towards the place of attachment of the anterior roots of the nerves, thus dividing the antero-lateral column into the anterior and lateral portions of white substance. On the outer surface of each crescent, be- tween the two cornua, processes from the grey substance form a network which encloses portions of the white column. This is seen especially in the cervical region. A layer of white substance separates the grey commissure from the bottom of the anterior median fissure, and is named the anterior or white commissure. The back part of the posterior horn, which is somewhat enlarged, is called the caput comu posterioris (fig. 350, a a); the narrower portion which connects it with the rest of the grey substance being called the cervix comu (fig. 350, d). At the tip of the caput comu the grey matter has a peculiar semitransparent aspect, whence it was named by Rolando substantia cinerea gelatinosa. The grey crescents vary in form in different parts of the cord (see fig. 348). In the dorsal region both anterior and posterior cornua are narrow. In the cervical and lumbar regions the anterior cornua are larire and broad, constituting cylindrical or prismatic columns of grey sub- stance. -The posterior cornua are narrow in the cervical, but very broad in the lumbar region. The grey matter is seen in a series of sections to be, relatively to the white, most abundant in the lumbar region of the cord, less so in the cervical region, and least so in the dorsal. The actual amount of white matter is greatest in the neck, of grey matter in the lumbar region. Towards the lower end of the cord the double crescentic form gradually disappears, and the grey matter is collected into a central mass, which is indented before and behind and at the sides. At its extreme point, according to Remak and Valentin, the cord consists of grey matter only. Piff. 349. Fig. 349.—Section op Lower Extremity of Spixal Cord. Magnified about Six Times. In A, the peculiar form of the lower extremity of the central canal is seen, and in 13, its opening on the posterior surface. The commissure connecting the two halves of the cord measures ^th or -g^th of an inch in average thickness, and consists, as already mentioned, of two portions—anterior white, and posterior grey commissures. The anterior is proportional in size to the size of the nerve roots. The pos- terior is largest in the upper part of the conus medullaris. In it is contained the central canal. Central canal.—Extending through the whole length of the spinal cord, in the substance of the grey commissure, there is a minute central canal which, in prepared transverse sections of the cord, is barely visible, as a speck, with the naked eye. Superiorly, it is con- tinued into and opens out at the calamus scriptorius of the fourth