706 THE FOETAL MEMBRANES. It is also worthy of notice that from the time when the allantois has attained some size, it, like the amnion, is possessed of contractility, which probably resides in its external layer ; and accordingly, on open- ing an incubated egg, from the effect of change of temperature or other stimuli, active motions may be perceived, caused by the alternate contraction and relaxation of different parts. In mammalia the origin and early development of the allantois are nearly the same as in birds, but in a more advanced stage of develop- ment, the important connection which the outer layer of this membrane has with the formation of the vascular part of the chorion and foetal placenta, modifies considerably the relations of the membrane to the other parts of the ovum. In all of them, however, the two layers of the allantois (splanchnopleure and hypoblast) are easily distinguished from each other, the internal being entirely devoid of blood-vessels, of a simple cellular structure, and containing the fluid with which the inner sac of the allantois is filled. The external layer, on the other hand, is highly vascular, and is composed of fibro-cellular and contractile fibrous elements. In the ruminants, pachydermata and the cetacea, the allantois attains to very large dimensions, extending widely into the greatly elongated ovum. In the earnivora it passes round the middle of the ovum externally in accordance with the zonal form of their placenta, while in the rodentia and in man its vesicular ■or deeper membrane at least, containing the fluid, has a much more limited expansion, and stops apparently in its growth as soon as it has assumed the flask- like form and has reached the interior of the chorion. This appears to be the most probable explanation of the appearance, described by several embryologists, and observed also more than once by the writer, of a pyriform space extending in early human ova from the umbilicus to the inside of the chorion at the place where the placenta is beginning to appear or will afterwards be formed. (See a recently described case by W. Krause in Reichert and Dubois, Archiv, 1875.) But in this and all other forms the umbilical vessels which pass out of the embryo are placed externally to the vesicle of the allantois or its continuation by the urachus towards the urinary bladder: and these vessels underg-oing an extremely rapid development, pass off into the chorion and placenta, which thus owe their vascular structures to the outer layer of the allantois. In the human subject the allantois is both of very early formation, and its non-vascular or internal part ceases to extend itself at a very^'early period, that is, before the end of the fourth week. But already by this time the blood-vessels of the outer layer, by themselves or more probably in association with a connective- tissue layer in which they were originally situated, have overrun the whole interior of the chorion, and very soon furnish to the developing villi of that struc- ture, the fibrous element with vessels, of which they secondarily become possessed. The manner of the completion of this process will be apparent from what follows, as to the formation of the chorion (Von Baer, Reichert, Remak, Kolliker). The Chorion.—The ovum of the mammifer when it enters the cavity of the uterus is covered only by the vitelline membrane, or zona pellu- cida, which is of ovarian origin, and as a rule (notwithstanding the apparent exception of the rabbit to be afterwards referred to) it does not appear that it acquires any other covering for some days after its arrival in the uterus. By the time, however, that it becomes fixed in that part of the uterus which it is to occupy during the subsequent period of its intrauterine life, a great change takes place in the nature of the external covering of the ovum, by its conversion into a new