290 THE LARYNX. the middle are the longest and run obliquely ; whilst the lower or external fibres are nearly vertical. In connection with the posterior crico-arytenoid muscle, may be mentioned an occasional small slip in contact with its lower border, viz., the kerato-cricoid muscle of Merkel. It is a short and slender bundle, arising- from the cricoid cartilage near its lower border, a little behind the inferior cernu of the thyroid cartilage, and passing obliquely outwards and upwards to be inserted into that process. It usually exists on only one side. Turner found it in seven out of thirty-two bodies. It is not known to be of any physiological significance. (Merkel, Anat. und Phys. des menschl. Stimm- und Sprachorgans, Leipzig, 1857 ; Turner in Month. Med. Journal, Feb. 1860.) Fig. 195. The lateral crico-arytenoid muscle (fig. 195, /), smaller than the posterior, is in a great measure hidden by the ala of the thyroid cartilage. It arises from the upper border of the side of the cricoid cartilage, its origin extending as far back as the articular surface for the aryte- noid. Its fibres pass backwards and upwards, the anterior or upper ones being the longest, and are attached to the outer side of the base of the arytenoid cartilage and to the adjacent part of its anterior surface, in front of the insertion of the posterior crico-arytenoid. This muscle is covered inter- nally by the mucous membrane, and at its anterior part by the upper part of the crico-thyroid muscle. The upper part is in close contact and indeed is sometimes blended with the thyro- arytenoid. The thyro-arytenoid muscle is situated above the lateral crico- arytenoid. It is thick below and in front, and becomes thinner above and behind. It consists of several distinct fasciculi, which arise in front from the internal surface of the thyroid cartilage, the lower two-thirds, close to the angle formed by the junction of the two ala?, and extend almost horizontally backwards and outwards to reach the base of the arytenoid cartilage. The lower portion of the muscle (fig. 195 d), which forms a thick fasciculus, receives a few additional fibres from the posterior surface of the crico-thyroid mem- Fig. 195.—Side View of the Larynx AFTER REMOVAL OF THE LEFT ALA OF THE Thyroid Cartilage (Bishop). The upper thin part of the left thyro- arytenoid muscle has been removed to show the lower part, d, supporting the vocal ■cord, c; a, inner surface of right ala of thyroid ; b, b, arytenoid cartilages ; d', the small thyro-arytenoid muscle of iScemmerring sometimes present ; e, posterior, and /, lateral crico-arytenoid muscles of the left side ; n, cricoid cartilage ; h, trachea.