788 DEVELOPMENT OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. especially in the human embryo, a blunt cleft or depression appears between this and the right part of the ventricle, which causes an external division into two portions corresponding to the future right and left ventricles; and if the interior of the ventricular cavity be examined at this time, there is perceived a crescentic partition rising from the anterior or lower border of the right wall and projecting into the cavitv, at first narrow and placed opposite the external notch, but gradually growing more and more towards the auriculo-ventricular aperture. As development progresses the external division becomes more or less effaced, when the apex of the heart formed by the left ventricle becomes more pointed, and the whole heart takes more of the conical form which belongs to its more advanced condition ; but the depression is still perceptible as the interventricular groove of the adult heart, which, as is well known, varies considerably in depth in different cases. In some animals, as the rabbit, the temporary external division of the ventricles is greater than in the human embryo, while in others, as in ruminants, there is very little of the external notching, and in them, as in birds, the heart very early assumes the conical form. The dugong presents a remarkable example of the persistence of the complete ex- ternal separation of the ventricles, and there appears to be a tendency to the occasional occurrence of the same in the seal. The internal septum of the ventricles continuing to rise between the right and left divisions of the cavity, reaches at last the base where it is placed in relation with both the auriculo-ventricular orifice and the root of the arterial bulb; but at this place there remains for a time a communication over the still free border of the septum between the right and left ventricles, which is interesting, as this is the seat of the abnormal communication between the right and left ventricles in almost all cases of malformation of the heart presenting that condition. Division of the Auricles.—Although the auricular cavity presents externally some appearance of being divided into two at a period ante- cedent to the partition of the ventricles, in consequence of the forma- tion of the right and left auricular appendages before mentioned, the internal division of the cavity does not take place till some time later, as on the fifth and sixth days in the chick, and in the eighth week in the human embryo. The auricular septum commences as an internal fold proceeding from the anterior wall of the common cavity, and starting from the septum of the ventricles, it grows backwards towards the entrance of the common vein or sinus, but stops short of it some distance. For a time, therefore, the veins enter the back part of the auricular cavity in common. It is proper to explain, however, that, by the time at which the auricular septum is forming, the venous sinus has been modified so as to produce three veins entering the auricle at its back part. Of these, two correspond with the right superior cava and the inferior cava veins, and the third to the left superior cava and connected with what afterwards becomes the coronary sinus. For a time, all the three vessels open so as to communicate freely with the whole auricular cavity. But changes now occur which cause the left superior cava and the inferior cava to be directed towards the left side, while the right superior cava is placed more immediately in connection with the right part of the auricular cavity. The auricular septum, in extending itself backwards, is not completed, ut leaves an oval deficiency in its lower and middle part, as the