40 FORMATION OF BLOOD-COBPUSCLES. The extractive matters of the chyle and lymph probably vary with the nature of the food : they generally contain sugar and urea in appreciable quantities. The gas obtainable from lymph consists almost entirely of carbonic acid. From human lymph Hensen obtained 70 per cent, by volume, whilst in lymph from the dog, Ludwig and Hammarsten were unable to obtain more than about 40 per cent. FORMATION OF THE CORPUSCLES OF THE LYMPH AND CHYLE. The lymph-plasma appears to consist fundamentally of blood-plasma, which, having exuded from the capdlary blood-vessels and yielded nutritive material to< the tissues, is, with more or less admixture of waste products, returned by the lymphatics. Pale blood-corpuscles also, which have migrated from the vessels, may find their way into the beginning of the lymphatics. In this way the presence of corpuscles in the lymph even before it has passed through the lymphatic glands is accounted for. As to the further origin of the lymph and chyle corpuscles, it may, in the first place, be observed that the greatly increased proportion of these bodies in the vessels which issue from the lymphatic glands, and the vast store of corpuscles having the same characters contained in the interior recesses of these glands, are unmistakeable indications that the glands are at least a principal seat of their production. They are, most probably, pro- duced by division of parent corpuscles or ceUs contained in the glands, and in some measure also by further division of corpuscles thus produced, after they have made their way into the lymphatic vessels. The corpuscles found sparingly both in chyle and lymph before passing the mesenteric glands may be in part formed in the agminated and solitary follicular glands of the intestine—which, though differing much in form, yet in essential structure have much in common with the lymphatic glands—and may come partly also from the tracts of lymphoid tissue, which exist in the intestinal mucous membrane. Lymph- corpuscles are probably also produced in the spleen and in the thymus gland ; they may also be formed by proliferation, of connective tissue corpuscles, or even of the flattened cells of which the commencing lymphatic vessels are composed. FORMATION OF THE BLOOD-CORPUSCLES. In the embryo of batrachians.—In the early embryo of the frog and newt (in which, perhaps, the steps of the process are best ascertained), at the time when the circulation of the blood commences, the corpuscles in that fluid appear as rounded cells, filled with granular matter, and of larger average size than the future blood-corpuscles. The bodies in question, although spoken of as ceUs and presenting a regularly defined outline, have no separable envelope. They contain, concealed in the midst of the granular mass, a pellucid globular nucleus, which usually presents one or two small clear specks, situated eccentri- caUy. The granular contents consist partly of fine molecules, exhibiting the usual molecular movements ; and partly of little angular plates, or tablets, of a solid substance, probably of a fatty nature. After a few days, most of the cells have assumed an oval figure, and are somewhat reduced in size ; and the granular matter is greatly diminished in quantity, so that the nucleus is conspicuous. Now, also, the blood-corpuscles, previously colourless, have acquired a yellowish or faintly red colour. In a further stage, the already oval cell is flattened, the granules entirely disappear, the colour is more decided, and, in short, the blood- corpuscle acquires its permanent characters. From this description it will be seen that the blood-cells which first appear agree in nature with the embryonic cells (described at page 8), and they are, in all probability, produced by the process of segmentation. The different parts of the embryo in its early condition, the heart, for example, are for a time entirely composed of cells of the same kind, and all have probably a common origin. It is possible that some, at least, of the red corpuscles of batrachians, originate in a similar manner (endogenously) to that immediately to be described in the bird and in mammalia, for developing blood-vessels of the tadpole's tail have been observed to contain blood-corpuscles before the establishment of a communication with the rest of the vascular system (Strieker).