INTERNAL STRUCTURE. 56-3 2. The size of the crusta above the pons, is much greater than that of the sense and motion on the other, be regarded as a whole, it is seen to traverse the second and third groups of grey substance, that of the cerebral ganglia, and that of the central grey substance. These divide it into three segments.—an upper, middle, and lower. These three segments are termed projection systems, since the function of the whole nervous tract may be considered as being to project the external world on the cerebral convolutions, and conversely the changes in the cerebral convolutions upon the motor organs. First projection system (P. S. I.) between the convolutions above and the cerebral ganglia (corpus striatum, &c.) below, corresponds for the most part to the corona radiata (Stabkranz). Second projection system (P. S. II.), between the cerebral ganglia above and the central grey matter below. As the latter extends from the fifth ventricle to the lower end of the spinal cord, the fibres of this system are of very various lengths. Third projection system (P. S. III.) from the grey matter of the central cavities to the muscles and terminations of the sensoiy nerves, corresponding nearly to the peripheral nerves. The other systems of fibres are (as commonly enumerated) the commissural, consisting of the corpus callosum and anterior commissure, which unite identical regions of different hemispheres, and the association system of fibres which unite non-identical regions of the same hemisphere. In the passage from P. S. I. to P. S. II., which is effected in the cerebral ganglia, the fibres undergo considerable reduction in number, the fibres of the crus being much fewer than those of the corona radiata. On the other hand, in the transition from P. S. II. to P. S. III., in the grey substance of the central cavities, the fibres undergo a great increase in number : the peripheral nerve- fibres being much more numerous than those of the crus or cord. The division of the fibres of the crus into two portions, an anterior or lower crusta (Fuss), and an upper or posterior tegmentum (Haube), may be extended to the cerebral ganglia in which the fibres of each portion respectively terminate above. striatum proper, and locus niger. They are connected (by P. S. I.) chiefly with the anterior part of the brain, and subserve chiefly voluntary motion. The ganglia of the tegmentum are the optic thalami, corpora quadrigemina, corpora geniculata interna, corpora albicantia, and subserve chiefly reflex movements. Certain fibres, thought to be sensory, pass up from the posterior columns of the cord, and form the posterior and outer fasciculi of the crusta of the crus cerebri. They pass through no ganglion, but ascend behind the optic thalamus to the cortex of the temporal lobes. The cerebellar grey substance is connected with that of the cerebrum by two groups of fibres. 1. The connecting arm (Bindearm), processus a cerebello ad cerebrum, arises from the corona radiata, and passes under the thalamus and corpora quadri- gemina, to mix with the fibres of the tegmentum, and reach the cerebellum after a total decussation. motor tract below ; and this is due to the fact that some of its fibres turn aside in the pons and reach the cerebellum through the middle peduncle. The union of the cerebellum with the spinal cord is also double, through the fasciculus cuneatus and fasciculus gracilis, from the posterior column, and the restiform body, from the lateral column. The large size of the pons is due to the interlacement of the arms of the cere- bellum with the projection system. ORIGIN OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. The surface attachments of the cranial nerves remain to be described, and it will be convenient to recapitulate at the same time their deep connections. lenticular nucleus, the corpus