THE SEMINAL VESICLES. 451 layers with intermediate circular fibres. The external and middle layers are thick and strong ; but the internal longitudinal stratum is extremely thin, constituting not more than ^th of the muscular coat. The vasa deferentia of the dog, cat, and rabbit were found by E. Weber to exhibit lively peristaltic contractions when stimulated by means of electricity. The surface of the lining membrane is pale ; it is thrown into three or four fine longitudinal ridges, and, besides this, in the sacculated por- tion of the duct, is marked by numerous finer rugaa which enclose irregular polyhedral spaces, resembling in this alveolar character the lining membrane of the vesiculse seminales. The epithelium is of the columnar kind, and not ciliated. Vas aberrans.—This name was applied by Haller to a long narrow tube, or diverticulum, discovered by him, and almost invariably met with, which leads off from the lower part of the canal of the epididymis, or from the commencement of the vas deferens, and, becoming tortuous and convoluted, is rolled up into an elongated mass which extends upwards for an inch or more amongst the vessels of the spermatic cord, where the tube ends by a closed extremity. Its length, when it is unravelled, ranges from about two to twelve or fourteen inches ; and its width in- creases towards its blind extremity. Sometimes this diverticulum is branched, and occasionally there are two or more such aberrant ducts. Its structure appears to be similar to that of the vas deferens. Its origin is probably connected with the Wolffian body of the foetus, but the exact mode of its formation and its office are unknown. Luschka states that occasionally it does not communicate with the canal of the epididymis, but appears to be a simple serous cyst. Organ of Giraldes.—The small body thus named is situated in the front of the cord immediately above the caput epididymis (see Fig. 317, g). It consists usually of several small irregular masses containing con- voluted tubules lined with squamous epithelium, and is scarcely to be recognised until the surrounding connective tissue has been rendered transparent by re-agents. It has also received the name of parepididymis. Its tubules appear to be vestiges of the glomerular part of the Wolffian body. (Giraldes, in Bulletin de la Soc. Anat. de Paris, 1857, and in Journal de la Physiologie, 1861, also in Proceed. Eoy. Soc. vol. ix., p. 231.) THE SEMINAL VESICLES AND EJACULATORY DUCTS. The vesiculse seminales are two membranous receptacles, situated, one on each side, upon the base of the bladder, between it and the rectum. When distended, they form two long-shaped sacculated bodies, some- what flattened on the side next the bladder, to which they are firmly attached, and convex on their inferior surface ; they are widened be- hind and narrow in front. Their length is usually about two inches, and their greatest breadth from four to six lines ; but they vary both in size and shape in different individuals, and also on opposite sides of the same subject. Their posterior obtuse extremities are separated widely from each other, but anteriorly they converge so as to approach the two vasa deferentia, which run forwards to the prostate between them. With