279 NERVES OF TIIE LUNG. brane, which in fine bronchial tubes is continuous with that supplied by the pulmonary artery ; (2) others form plexuses in the interlobular areolar tissue; (3) branches spread out upon the surface of the lung beneath the pleura, forming plexuses and a capillary network. These may be distinguished from the pulmonary vessels of the superficial air-cells by their tortuous course and open arrangement, by their being outside the tissue investing the lobules, and by ultimately ending in the branches of the superficial set of bronchial veins.* The bronchial veins have not quite so large a distribution in the lung as the bronchial arteries, since part of the blood carried by the bronchial arteries is returned by the pulmonary veins. The superficial and deep bronchial veins unite at the root of the lung, opening on the right side into the vena azygos, and on the left usually into the superior inter- costal vein. lymphatics.—Part of the lymphatics of the lung take origin from lymphatic capillaries in the interalveolar septa in the usual manner, and where near the surface of the lung come into connection with the subpleural lymphatic plexus, previously mentioned (p. 273). They join to form vessels which accompany the branches of the pulmonary artery and vein, running on those vessels in twos or threes, connected by nume- rous cross branches, and in some cases, becoming perivascular, even completely surrounding the blood-vessel. The branched connective tissue corpuscles with which these interalveolar lymphatics are in con- nection at their origin, send processes upwards to the inner surface of the alveoli, between the epithelial cells (like the pseudostomata of the serous membranes, p. 198). Other lymphatics, which might be distinguished as bronchial, origi- nate in the mucous membrane of the bronchial tubes, where the con- nective tissue cells with which they are connected send up processes to the surface as before. From the plexuses of origin they pass through the muscular coat to be distributed in the fibrous layer, where they are most numerous on the side opposite the accompanying branch of the pulmonary artery. Here they not unfrequently are found to enclose nodules or follicles of lymphoid tissue, like those described under " Serous Membranes." j At the root of the lung the superficial and deep lymphatics unite into a few anastomosing trunks before entering the bronchial lymph- atic glands. Herves.—The nerves to the lung come from the anterior and pos- terior pulmonary plexuses which are formed chiefly by branches from the pneumogastric nerves, joined by others from the sympathetic system. The fine nervous cords enter at the root of the lung, and follow the air- tubes. Their final distribution requires further examination. Accord- ing toRemak, whitish filaments from the parvagum follow the bronchia as far nearly as the surface of the lung, and greyish filaments, proceed- ing from the sympathetic, and having minute ganglia upon them in their course, pass both to the bronchial tubes and pleura. Julius Arnold has described the pulmonary nerves of the frog as ending in pyriform ganglion cells. (Virchow's Archiv. vol. xxviii.) * A few small branches of the intercostal arteries also pass to the pulmonary pleura and surface of the lung through the ligamentum latum pulmonis (Turner). t Burdon-Sanderson, Report of Medical Officer to the Privy Council, 1868. Wywodzoff, Wiener Med. Jahrb. xi. 1866. E. Klein, Proceedings of the Royal Society, January, 1874.