342 THE PHARYNX. during the passage of the food completely separates an upper from a lower part by means of the contraction of the mnscles connected with it which are placed in the posterior pillars of the fauces. Seven openings lead into the cavity of the pharynx ; viz., above the velum, the two posterior openings of the nares (choanm narium, fig. 241, 1), and at the sides the apertures of the Eustachian tubes (6); while below the velum, there is first the passage leading from the mouth (3) • then the superior opening of the larynx (4), and lastly the passage into the oesophagus (5). The pharynx is about four inches and a half in length, and is con- siderably wider across than it is deep from before backwards. Its width above is moderate ; its widest part is opposite the cornua of the hyoid bone, and below this it rapidly contracts like a funnel towards its termination in the gullet, opposite the cricoid cartilage, where it is narrowest. Fig. 241.—Anteroposterior, Vertical Section through the Head a little to the left op the Middle Line, showing the relations op the Nasal and Buccal Cavities, the Pharynx, Larynx, &c. a, nasal septum, and below it the section of the hard palate ; b, the tongue ; c, soft palate ; d, the lips ; u, the uvula; r, anterior pillar of the fauces ; i, posterior pillar ; t, the tonsil placed between the pillars ; p, upper part of the pharynx ; h, body of the hyoid bone ; k, thyroid cartilage ; n, cricoid cartilage ; v, on the upper vocal cords above the glottis; s, epiglottis; 1, posterior opening of the nares ; 3, behind the isthmus faucium ; 4, opposite the superior opening of the larynx ; 5, passage into the oesophagus ; 6, opening of the right Eustachian tube. Attachments.—The walls of the pharynx are formed by a fascia or layer of fibrous tissue, named the pharyngeal aponeurosis, dense at its upper part but lax and weak below, which is surrounded by muscles, and lined by a mucous membrane. At its upper end this fibrous wall is attached to the posterior part of the body of the sphenoid bone, Fig. 241.