58 CONNECTIVE TISSUE. In some parts of the tissue, and especially on the surface of the laminae, patches of cells are here and there to be found which present an epithelioid appearance in silver preparations, the cells being much flattened, and joined edge to edge, with but a small amount of intercellular or ground substance between them, like the layer on the inner surface of a serous membrane. The cells at the margin of such a patch, however, commonly have processes at their free border, and every transition is found between these epithelioid cells and the ordinary branched and irregular cells of the tissue. Corpuscles of a fusiform shape are not so common in the adult as was at one time supposed ; the appearance being generally produced by flattened cells seen edgewise. The connective-tissue corpuscles are for the most part considerably larger than the pale blood-corpuscles (which are also to be found in the tissue (fig. 30, I), having probably escaped from the vessels), and do not, like these, exhibit active movements of locomotion, the motions which have been observed in them consisting merely of slow protrusion and retraction of processes or straining movements of the protoplasm composing them. Vessels and Nerves.—Numerous Mood-vessels are seen in the areolar tissue after a minute injection. These for the most part only pass through it on their way to other more vascular textures, but a few seem to end in capillaries destined for the tissue itself, and dense clusters of vessels are distributed to the fat-lobules. Large lymphatic vessels proceeding to distant parts also pass along this texture, and abundant lymphatic networks may be discovered in many parts of the subcutaneous, subserous, and submucous areolar tissue, having evident relation to the function of the membranes under which they lie. A close connection subsists between the cells of the areolar tissue and the commencements of the lymphatics ; for the flattened cells which form the walls of the latter vessels are in contact with, and pass into, the connective-tissue corpuscles of the tissue in which they lie. In this manner the cell-spaces of the connective tissue are brought into intimate relation with the lymphatics, and the latter vessels may, in a certain sense, be described as originating in the net-work of cell-spaces which the tissue commonly contains. Absorption readily takes place from the interstices of the texture, but that process may be effected through the agency of blood-vessels as well as of lymphatics. Larger and smaller branches of nerves also traverse this tissue on their way to other parts; but it has not been shown that any remain in it, and accordingly it may be cut in a living animal apparently with- out giving pain, except when the instrument meets with any of these traversing branches. It is not improbable, however, that nerves end in those parts of the areolar tissue, which, like that of the scrotum, contain contractile fibres ; but, if present in such cases, the nerves, like the vessels of the fat, are, after all, destined not to the areolar tissue but to another mixed with it. Composition and Properties.—The areolar tissue contains a con- siderable quantity of water, and consequently loses much of its weight by drying. It is almost wholly resolved into gelatin by boiling in water. Acetic acid causes it, that is, the bundles of white fibrils, to swell up into a soft, transparent, jelly-like mass ; but the original condition may be restored by a solution of an alkaline carbonate.