CEREBELLUM. Fig. 365.—The Columns of the Fig. 365. 520 form process; but a considerable number of their fibres pass into or issue from Medulla Oblongata traced upwards into the cerebellum and Cerebrum (from Arnold), g a, part of the anterior column which ascends in the olivary column; b, decussating portion of the lateral column forming the pyramid and turn down; c, olivary fasciculus ascending deeply through the pons ; d, olivary body ; e, restiform body ; /, g, corpora quadrigemina ; c, h, i, the fillet ; h, the part which ascends to the cerebral peduncle ; i, the part passing tip to the corpora quadrigemina ; m, m, the trans- verse fibres of the pons divided ; n, inferior peduncle of the cerebellum; o, septal fibres of the medulla oblongata ; q, fibres of the inferior peduncle continued into the lamina? of the cerebellum ; r, r, superior peduncle ; t, fasciculus teres ; u, thalamus ; v corpus albicans. A very different account from that which has generally been received of the course and relations of the tracts of nervous substance of the cerebellum has recently been put forward by Luys, but has not yet received corroboration. According to the statement of this author, all the fibres of the cerebellar peduncles arise from the interior of the corpora dentata ; the cells of those centres receive externally fibres from the laminated periphery of the cerebellum, and internally give origin to the peduncular fibres; the fibres of the inferior peduncles, of opposite sides cross the middle line and terminate in the interior of the olivary nuclei; and the fibres of the superior peduncles, likewise decussating in the mesial plane before quitting the cerebellum, terminate in a grey centre of the interior of the tegmentum of the cms cerebri, and thus the fibres of the cerebellum form a separate system indirectly connected with the fibres of the rest of the cerebro-spinal axis. (Luys, in Journ. de l'Anat. et de Physiol., 1864, p. 225.) Minute Structure.—The cortical grey substance is composed of an external clear grey layer, an inner greyish-red " granule " layer, and between the two a single layer of large cells with long processes, termed the corpuscles of Purkinje. Outside all is the layer of fibres and vessels of the pia mater. The external layer (fig. 366, V) consists of a delicate matrix, probably of the nature of connective tissue, containing cells and fibres. Most of the fibres have a direction at right angles to the surface; the greater part of them are the processes of the large nerve cells which lie between the two layers. Others are fine conneetive tissue fibres, analagous to the sustentacular fibres of the retina, and connected by a broad base with the pia-matral covering. The corpuscles are granule-like bodies, some very small, and connected probably with the connective tissue matrix, others larger and surrounded by protoplasm from which pro- cesses extend. Some of the corpuscles are connected with the processes of the larger cells.* (See fig. 367.) The inner part of this layer, con- * A connection described by Lockhart Clarke (Proc. Roy. Soc, 1863), and sub- sequently by Obersteiner, and recently confirmed (independently) by Mr. H. R. 0. Sankey, student of University College. the grey capsule of the corpus dentatum.