STRUCTURE OF THE SALIVARY GLANDS. 339 Wharton. One, longer than the rest (which is occasionally derived in part also from the submaxillary gland), runs along the Whartonian duct, and opens either with it or very near it; this has been named the duct of Bartholin. The blood-vessels of this gland are supplied by the sublingual and submental arteries and veins. The nerves are numerous, and are derived from the lingual branch of the fifth. STRUCTURE OF THE SALIVARY GLANDS. These glands are constructed on the compound racemose type. Their ducts (traced backwards), after branching a certain number of times, terminate in moderately fine ramuscules, around which the terminal recesses of the gland are grouped, and into which they open. These terminal recesses, saccules, or alveoli (fig. 238 I)) are lined and almost Fig. 238. Fig. 238. —Section op the Submaxillary Gland of. the Dog, stained with carmine. Highly magnified (Kolliker). <a} cross-section of small salivary duct ; b, an alveolus containing salivary cells ; c, semilunar body. filled by an epithelium, the cells of which (salivary cells) are spheroidal in form, with flattened sides where they touch one another, and consist each of granular protoplasm enclosing a nucleus, which, in sections, generally appears flattened up against the base of the cell. This position of the nucleus is, however, produced after death ; in the unaltered con- dition it occupies a more central position in the cell (as shown in fig. 240). In the submaxillary gland (and also, to a less extent, in the sublingual, but never in the parotid) the salivary-cells for the most part contain mucus, and the swelling up of this by imbibition of water is not improbably the cause of the altered position of the nucleus, as happens in the formation of goblet-cells from columnar epithelium. When isolated, the salivary cells not unfrequently exhibit processes, one from the base of each cell: according to Kolliker the projection is flattened and overlaps the base of a neighbouring cell. A similar relation of the alveolar cells has also been pointed out in Brunner's glands of the intestine, which belong to the same class as the salivary glands (Schwalbe).