STRUCTURE OF THE SUPRARENAL CAPSULES. 415 The fibrous investment (fig-. 301, a), is so intimately connected with the deeper parts that it cannot be removed without lacerating the sub- jacent structure. Its deeper layers are destitute of elastic fibres, and are particularly rich in connective tissue corpuscles : they are continuous with the septa which enter into the formation of the substance of the organ. The cortical part of the supra- renal body, examined in a section with Fig- 301. a low magnifying power (fig. 301, 1), is seen to consist of a fibrous stroma, in which are imbedded column-like groups of cells. The groups measure on an average -y^oth of an inch in diameter, and are arranged vertically to the surface of the organ. In the deepest part of the cortex, however, the colour is darker, and the columnar arrangement is lost, the stroma being- more equally distributed^); and immediately beneath the fibrous coat there is another narrow zone in which the stroma forms oval spaces, of which it is difficult to say whether they communicate with the extremities of the columns or not (b). These inner and outer layers have been named by J. Arnold respec- tively zona reticularis and zona glo- merulosa, while he applies the term zona fasciculata to the main part(c); but the transition from one of these parts to another is not sudden nor indicated by any line of demarcation. The cells which form the groups and columns of the cortical substance are polyhedral in form (fig. 302): their protoplasm is finely granular but not unfrequently contains yel- lowish oil globules. The cells vary from o^Voth to y^-oth of an inch in size : each has a clear round nucleus. The small arteries, entering from the surface, run parallel to these columns, frequently anastomose to- gether between them, and surround each column of cells with a fine capillary network. Small bundles of nerves pass inwards in the septa between the columns to reach the medullary part of the organ, and their fibres begin to spread out in the zona reticularis, but do not appear to be distributed to the cortical substance. The medullary part (fig. 301, 2) of the suprarenal capsule is marked off from the cortical part by a layer of loose connective tissue. VOL. II. EE Fig. 301.—Vertical Section op supra- renal Body : Human. Magnified (Eberth). 1, cortical substance; 2, medullary substance : a, capsule ; b, zona glome- rulosa ; c, zona fasciculata ; d, zona re- ticularis ; e, groups of medullary cells ; /, section of a large vein.