386 THE LIVER. that intestine, and three or four inches below the pylorus, as already described. "Varieties.—The liver is not subject to great or frequent deviation from its ordinary fomi and relations. Sometimes it retains the thick rounded form which it presents in the foetus ; and it has occasionally been found without any divi- sion into lobes. On the contrary, Soemmerring has recorded a case in which the adult liver was divided into twelve lobes; and similar cases of subdivided liver (resembling that of some animals) have been now and then observed by others. A detached portion, forming a sort of accessory liver, is occasionally found appended to the left extremity of the gland by a fold of peritoneum containing blood vessels. The gall-bladder is occasionally wanting; in which case the hepatic duct is much dilated within the liver, or in some part of its coru'se. Sometimes the gall-bladder is irregular in form, or is constricted across its middle, or, but much more rarely, it is partially divided in a longitudinal direction. Direct communications by means of small ducts (named hepato-cystic), passing from the liver to the gall-bladder, exist regularly in various animals; and they are sometimes found, as an unusual formation, in the human subject. The right and left divisions of the hepatic duct sometimes continue separate for some distance within the gastro-hepatic omentum. Lastly, the common bile- duct not unfrequently opens into the duodenum, apart from the pancreatic duct. STRUCTURE OF THE LIVER. The liver has two coverings, viz., a serous or peritoneal, already sufficiently referred to, and a proper areolar coat. The areolar ov fibrous coat invests the whole gland. Opposite to the parts covered by the serous coat, it is thin and difficult to demonstrate ; but where the peritoneal coat is absent, as at the posterior border of the liver, and in the portal fissure, it is denser and more evident. Its inner surface is attached to the hepatic glandular substance, being there con- tinuous with the delicate areolar tissue which lies between the small lobules of the gland. At the transverse fissure it becomes continuous with the capsule of GUsson, by which name, as already noticed, is designated a sheath of areolar tissue which surrounds the branches of the portal vein, hepatic artery, and hepatic duct, as they ramify in the substance of the liver, and which becomes more delicate as the vascular branches become smaller. Hepatic lobules.—The proper substance of the liver, which has a mottled aspect when closely observed, is compact, but not very firm. It is easily cut or lacerated, and is not unfrequently ruptured during life from accidents in which other parts of the body have escaped injury. When the substance of the liver is torn, the broken surface is not smooth but coarsely granular, the liver being composed of a multitude of small lobules (figs. 274 and 275), which vary from half a line to a line in diameter (1—2 millimetres). These lobules are closely packed polyhedral masses, and in some animals, as in the pig, are completely isolated one from another by areolar tissue continuous with the fibrous coat of the liver and with the capsule of Glisson; but in the human subject, and in most animals, although very distinguishable, they are not completely insulated, being confluent in a part of their extent. Notwithstanding this the lobules of the human liver are sufficiently marked out by interlobular fissures, although these are incomplete.