COAGULATION. 35 liquor sanguinis, the fibrin being- generated in that liquid by the concurrence of its two constituents in the way already explained, and separating- in form of a solid mass, which involves the corpuscles but allows the serum to escape from it in greater or less quantity. But although the solidification of the fibrin and formation of a red clot would undoubtedly take place independently of any mechanical co-operation on the part of the corpuscles, still it must not be for- gotten that the red disks are not altogether indifferent while coagulation goes on ; for they run together into rolls, as already described, and the circumstance of their doing so with greater or with less promptitude materially affects the result of the coagulating process. Thus there seems good reason to believe that, as H. Nasse pointed out, one of the causes—and in inflammatory blood probably the chief cause—of the production of the buffy coat, is an exaltation of the natural tendency of the red disks to run together, whereby being more promptly and more closely aggregated into compact masses, they more speedily subside through the liquid plasma, leaving the upper part of it colourless by the time coagulation sets in ; and "Wharton Jones has drawn attention to what he conceives to be another influential circumstance depending likewise on the corpuscles, in inflam- matory blood, namely, the more rapid and close shrinking of the network, or spongework as he terms it, into which the little rolls of corpuscles unite, and the consequent expulsion of the great part of the liquor sanguinis from its meshes before the fibrin solidifies, in which case the mass of aggregated corpuscles naturally tends to the lower part of the vessel, whilst the expressed plasma, being lighter, accumulates at the top. Of course it is not meant to deny that more tardy coagulation of the plasma would produce the same result as more speedy aggregation of the corpuscles ; it is well known, indeed, that blood may be made to show a buffy coat by delaying its coagulation, but buffed inflammatory blood is not necessarily slow in coagulating. Circumstances affecting Coagulation.—Various causes accelerate, retard, or entirely prevent the coagulation of the blood ; of these it will here suffice to indicate the more important and best ascertained. 1. Temperature.—Cold delays, and at or below 40 degrees Fahr. wholly suspends coagulation ; but even frozen blood, when thawed and heated again, will coagulate. Moderate elevation of temperature above that of the body promotes coagulation. 2. Coagulation is accelerated by contact of the blood with foreign matter, such as the sides of the basin or other vessel into which it is drawn. On the other hand, the maintenance of its fluidity is favoured by retention within its vessels or natural receptacles where it is in contact with the natural tissues of the body ; but when the coats of the vessels or other tissues, with which the blood is contiguous, lose their vitality and are altered in their properties, they become as foreign bodies, and coagulation is promoted. The usual exposure of drawn blood to the air promotes coagulation, but according to Lister, by no means so powerfully as was formerly believed. The effect of other gases is the same. Coagulation speedily takes place when blood is subjected to the air-pump, and has therefore been said to occur readily in vacuo, but Lister finds that this is owing to the agitation caused by the bubbling of the blood from the escape of liberated gases, whereby more and more of it is successively brought into contact with the sides of the vessel. 3. Arrest of the blood's motion within the body is said to favour coagulation, probably by arresting those perpetual changes of material, both destructive and renovative, to which it is naturally subject in its rapid course through the system. The coagulation of the stagnant blood after death is also largely to be ascribed to the alteration then ensuing in the coats of the containing vessels. Lister found that, after D 2