564 THE CEREBRUM. ventricle ; the other, or extraventricular, situated more externally and' inferiorly, is hidden in the white mass of the hemisphere. It is sepa- rated from the first by the white substance of the corona radiata, which appears on a horizontal section as a broad white band extending- from behind forward between the two grey masses, and traversed by streaks of grey matter passing from one to the other. The intraventricular part, also named the nucleus caudatus (corpus striatum proper of Henle and others) is connected below with the lamina cinerea, and with that part of the grey matter of the optic thalamus which is seen in the third ventricle. The extraventricular part, named nucleus lenticularis, is continuous below with the caudate nucleus, and with the grey matter of the anterior perforated space. Striae of grey matter pass from one- centre to the other. Between the lenticular nucleus and the island of Eeil, which lies opposite to it, there intervenes a thin lamelliform deposit of grey matter, the claustrum (Burdach), nucleus tcm 'mformk (Arnold), which, in transverse section, is seen as a thin line. The caudate nucleus presents nerve-cells, large and small, in great abun- dance, scattered among the fibres which pass through it, and embedded in a granular substance containing nuclei. Three forms of cells have been described,—large multipolar cells, about 1 ./0 0 inch in diameter,, having branching processes, and containing rounded nuclei and pig- ment ; similar but smaller cells, about half that size, and small elements like nuclei, but differing from the nuclei of the connective tissue. No axis-cylinder process has been distinguished in any of the cells of the corpus striatum. Peculiar clear spherical areas, containing a large granule, a nucleus, or a nucleus surrounded by granules, also' occur in it (Henle). Of the lenticular nucleus the two inner zones (see p. 549) contain numerous large branching nerve-cells, yellowish in tint, many of them surrounded by clear spherical areas. The striation of the outer zone is due to radiating bundles of nerve-fibres alternating with grey matter in which are clear spaces containing granules and nuclei, such as are- found in the corpus striatum. The claustrum contains scattered nerve-cells, most of which contain yellow pigment, and which resemble in their fusiform shape and bipolar processes the cells of the posterior vesicular columns of the spinal cord.. Meynert's Terminology.—According to Professor Meynert, of Vienna, the structural arrangement of the brain differs in many respects from the descrip- tion commonly given of it. His terminology also differs from that in ordinary use. The details of the conclusions to which he arrives will be found in his article on the brain, in Strieker's " Handbook of Histology." He groups the grey substance of the central nervous system into four categories. 1. The superficial grey substance of the cerebral hemispheres. 2. The grey substance of the cerebral ganglia (corpus striatum proper, lenti- cular nucleus, optic thalamus, corpora quadrigemina, locus niger, &c). 3. The grey substance which surrounds the central cavities of the brain and spinal cord. Commencing above at the infundibulum, it lines the fifth ventricle and the aqueduct of Sylvius, extends through the fourth ventricle, and surrounds the canal of the spinal cord. 4. The cerebellum and its appendages, including the grey substance traversed by its commissural fibres in the anterior medullary velum and the pons. If the whole tract of nervous conduction, from the grey matter of the cerebral convolutions, on the one hand, to the peripheral terminations of the nerves of