738 DEVELOPMENT OF THE HEAD. 2. Subcranial, Facial, or Pharyngeal Plates or Arches.— In man, and all vertebrates, there are developed below and on the sides of the cranial part of the head, a series of processes or bars in pairs, which contribute to the formation of the subcranial structures constituting the face and jaws, and the hyoid and other parts inter- vening between the head and trunk. These bars first received attention Fig. 539. Fig. 539.—Outlines showing the early changes in the form of the Head of the Human Embryo. A, profile view of the head and fore part of the body of an embryo of about four weeks (from nature, ^) : the five primary divisions of the brain are shown, together with the primary olfactory and optic depressions, and a, the auditory vesicle ; 1, marks the man- dibular plate, and behind this are seen the three following plates with the corresponding pharyngeal clefts. B, from an embryo of about six weeks (from Ecker, f) : the cerebral hemispheres have become enlarged and begin to spread laterally ; 1, the lower jaw ; 1', the first pharyngeal cleft, now widening at the dorsal end, where it forms the meatus externus ; the second cleft is still visible, but the third and fourth clefts are closed and the corresponding plates have nearly disappeared. C, from a human foetus of nine weeks (from nature, f) ; the features of the face are now roughly formed ; the first pharyngeal cleft is now undergoing conversion into the meatus, and the auricle is beginning to rise at its outer border. from their discovery by Rathke in 1826, published in the Isis of that year, and were named by him the branchial arches, from the relation which some of them bear to the gill bars of branchiate vertebrates. Their nature and transformations were fully investigated by Keichert in 1837 (Midler's Archiv, 1837). From later researches it appears that other processes, with somewhat similar relations to the cranium, occurring further forward, may be associated with those described as branchial by Rathke, and it will be expedient therefore to describe the whole of the sub- cranial outgrowths together at this place. In this the views of Huxley and Parker will be chiefly followed. (See " On the Structure and Develop- ment of the Skull in the Pig," by W. K. Parker, in Trans. Eoy. Soc. 1873, p. 289 ; Huxley, in Elements of Compar. Anat., 1864, and Manual of Compar. Anat., 1871; also Gegenbaur, Das Kopfskelet, &c, 1872). According to these views the parts of the head situated in front of and above the future mouth, are formed from two pairs of plates, which may thence be called preoral, in one pair of which the bars are the same with the trabecule crcrnii of Rathke surrounding the pituitary gland, and are the basis of formation of the pre-sphenoid, ethmoid, nasal, and pre-maxillary portions of the skull, while in the other pair, consisting in each of a deeper and a superficial part, the bars form the foundation