20G MUCOUS MEMBRANES. of the tint, as well as its extent, is influenced by circumstances accom- panying or immediately preceding death. Thus the state of inflam- mation, or the local application of stimuli to the membrane, such as irritant poisons, or even food in the stomach, is apt to produce increased redness; and all the mucous membranes are liable to be congested with blood and suffused with redness when death is immediately preceded by obstruction to the circulation, as in cases of asphyxia, and in many diseases of the heart. Structure.—A mucous membrane is composed of corium and epithe- lium. The epithelium covers the surface; it may be scaly and stratified as in the mouth and throat, columnar as in the intestine, or ciliated as in the respiratory tract and uterus. The membrane which remains after removal of the epithelium is named the corium, as in the analogous instance of the true skin. The corium may be said to consist of a fibro-vascular layer, of variable thickness, bounded superficially or next the epithelium by an extremely fine transparent lamella, named base- ment-membrane by Bowman, and primary membrane, limitary membrane, and membrana propria by others who have described it. The basement-membrane is best seen in parts where the mucous membrane is raised into villous processes, or where it forms secreting crypts or minute glandular recesses, such as those which abound in the stomach and intestinal canal (fig. 137, b). On teasing out a portion of the gastric or intestinal mucous membrane under the microscope, some of the tubular glands are here and there discovered which are tolerably well cleared from the surrounding tissue, and their parietes are seen to be formed of a thin pellucid film, which is detached from the adjoining fibro-vascular layer, the epithelium perhaps still remaining in the inside of the tube or having escaped, as the case may be. The fine film referred to is the basement-membrane. It may by careful search be seen too on the part of the corium situated between the orifices of the glands, and on the villi, when the epithelium is detached, although it cannot be there so readily separated from the vascular layer. In these parts it manifestly forms a superficial boundary to the corium, passing continu- ously over its eminences and into its recesses, defining its surface, and supporting the epithelium. In other parts where villi and tubular glands are wanting, and especially where the mucous membrane, more simply arranged, presents an even surface, as in the tympanum and nasal sinuses, the basement-membrane is absent, or at least not demon- strated. The basement-membrane, as already said, forms the peripheral boundary of the corium; it is in immediate connection with the epi- thelium. By its under surface it closely adjoins the fibro-vascular layer, with the retiform tissue, cl, of which it is in connection. The vessels of the corium advance close up to the basement-membrane, but nowhere penetrate it. In structure the membrane in question seems at first sight perfectly homogeneous, but treatment with nitrate of silver brings to view the outlines of flattened epithelioid connective tissue cells, of which it is in reality composed.* The fibro-vascular layer of the corium is composed of vessels both sanguiferous and lymphatic, with connective tissue—areolar and reti- * In the large intestine of the frog, and perhaps also in some other parts, these cells, instead of adhering by their edges, intercommunicate by processes, so as to form a close network instead of a continuous membrane.