73 HYALINE CARTILAGE. by a transparent capsule, which is seldom obvious to the eye, for it coheres intimately with the surrounding matrix, with which it agrees in nature, and can- not usually be distin- Fig. 42. guished without the aid of re-agents. In thin slices of young cartilage the capsules may be freed from the matrix by means of con- centrated mineral acids, and can then be shown as distinct vesicles having the cell-bodies within. The effect of acids is promoted by previous boiling of the cartilage in water. By exposure to water and some other liquids as well as to the action of electric shocks the cell-body shrinks away from the inside of the capsule, and assumes a jagged or otherwise irregular figure, and then may hide the nucleus (fig. 44). It often contains larger or smaller fat- globules (fig. 42, g.) The cells are rarely dispersed singly in the matrix ; they most commonly occur in groups of two or more. When disposed in pairs (as at fig. 42) the cells are generally triangular or pyramidal in form with rounded angles, and with their bases opposite one another ; in the larger groups (b) the cells have a straight outline where they adjoin or approach one another, but at the circumference of the group their out- line is rounded. Towards the surface of the cartilage the groups are generally flattened conformably with the surface, appearing narrow and almost linear when seen edgeways, as in a perpendicular section Such is the structure of hyaline cartilage in general, but it is more or less modified in different situations. In articular cartilage, the matrix in a thin section appears dim, like ground glass, and has an almost granular aspect. The cells are smaller and more uniformly dispersed, as a rule, than in rib cartilage. As is the case with cartilage generally, the groups which they form are flattened at and near to the surface, and lie parallel with it (fig. 44) ; deeper and nearer the bone, on the other hand, they are narrow and oblong, like short irregular strings of beads, and are Fig. 42. — Articular Cartilage from Head op Metatarsal (osmic acid preparation). The Cell- Bodies ENTIRELY FILL THE SPACES IN THE MATRIX. 340 DIAMETERS. a, h, groups of cells ; 7i, protoplasm of cell, with g, fatty granules ; n, nucleus.