VOL. ii. 3 E FORMATION OF THE LUNGS. 7S3 owes its origin to both hypoblastic and mesoblastic elements. The substance of the mesoblast, thickening round the primary diverticula, becomes penetrated by secondary diverticula formed from the hypoblast processes; these are succeeded by tertiary branches which develop the bronchia, and ultimately have the air-cells formed as their terminations. The formative process consists essentially in the budding of hypoblastic into mesoblastic substance; the hypoblast furnishing the lining epi- thelium of the tubes, and the mesoblast the other tissues, such as muscular fibres, cartilage, blood-vessels, elastic tissue, &c. In the formation of the trachea and bronchi the wall of the primitive oesophagus is projected downwards (or forwards), and by the gradual folding in of the sides a second median tube is separated from the primitive alimentary canal. This new tube grows out at its hinder end so as to bulge at the two sides, and thus the commencement of a right and left bronchus is formed. The subsequent division of the diverticular hollow goes on by budding of the hypoblast from within into the masses of pulmonary blastema. The division into larger lobes externally, three in the right and two in the left lung, may be seen at a very early period in the human foetus. As the bronchial subdivision extends within the lungs, a tubercular or coarsely granular appearance is seen over the outer surface, as observed by Kolliker in the human foetus in the latter half of the second month. This is produced by the primitive air-cells placed at the extremities of ramified tubes, which occupy the whole of the interior of the organ: the ramification of the bronchial twigs and multiplication of air-cells goes on increasing, and this to such an extent that the air-cells in the fifth month are only half the size of those which are found in the fourth month. Fig. 582.—Sketch illustrating the Deve- lopment of \ the Respiratory Organs (from Rathke). A, oesophagus of a chick, on the fourth day of incubation, with the rudimentary lung of the left side, seen laterally ; 1, the front, and 2, the back of the oesophagus ; 3, rudimentary lung protruding from that tube; 4, stomach. B, the same seen in front, so as to show both lungs. C, tongue and respiratoi-y organs of embryo of the horse ; 1, tongue ; 2, larynx ; 3, trachea ; 4, lungs seen from behind. Fig. 582. A. B C In birds the principal air-sacs, three in number, are formed in direct connection with the lung in the course of its early development, and the rudiments of these sacs may be seen at an early period, as bulging constituent parts of the rudimentary lungs. Pleurae.—Each lung receives a covering externally from the lining membrane of the common pleuro-peritoneal cavity of its own side. This is at first only on the outer side; but, as the lungs enlarge, a fissure separates their solid substance from the outer wall of the oesophagus, and the pleura is carried round the lung-mass so as to encircle the gradually narrowing root of each lung. The two pleurae remain sepa- rated by the mediastinum and heart. Pulmonary Vessels.—The blood-vessels of the lungs which arise in the mesoblastic tissue seem to be of comparatively late formation,