THE TEETH. 306 central incisors, the other teeth of the upper jaw are thrown somewhat outwards, so that in closure of the jaws the canines and bicuspids come into contact partly with the corresponding lower teeth, and partly with those next following; and in the case of the molars, each cusp of the upper lies behind the corresponding cusp of the lower teeth. Since, however, the upper molars and especially the wisdom-teeth are smaller than those below, the dental ranges terminate behind nearly at the same point in both jaws. The Milk-teeth (fig. 206).—The temporary incisor and canine teeth resemble those of the permanent set in their general form ; but they are of smaller dimensions. The temporary molar teeth present some peculiarities. The hinder of the two is much the larger ; it is the largest of all the milk-teeth, and is larger even than the second per- manent bicuspid, which it afterwards gives place to. The first upper milk molar has only three cusps, two external and one internal ; the second has four. The first lower temporary molar has four cusps, and the second five, of which in the latter case three are external. The Fig. 206. Fig. 206.—Milk Teeth of the Eight Side op the Upper and Lower Jaws. a, the incisors ; b, the canines; c, the molar teeth. fangs of the temporary molars resemble those of the permanent set, but they are smaller, and are more divergent from the neck of the tooth. STRUCTURE OP THE TEETH. On making a section of a tooth, the hard substance of wdiich it i& composed is found to be hollow within (fig. 207). The form of the- cavity bears a general resemblance to that of the tooth itself; it occupies the interior of the crown, is widest opposite to or a little above the neck, and extends down each fang, at the point of which it opens by a small orifice. In the incisor teeth the cavity is prolonged above into two fine linear canals, which proceed one to each corner of the crown ; in the bicuspid and molar teeth it advances a short distance into each cusp. In the case of a root formed by the blending of two or more fangs, as occurs occasionally in the wisdom-teeth, each division has a separate canal prolonged down to its apex. Pulp of the teeth.—The central cavity of a tooth is called the pulp cavity, because it is occupied and accurately filled by a soft, highly