THE SMALL INTESTINE. 357 pyloric end of the stomach, the mucous membrane is seen projecting in the form of a circular fold, called the pylorus, leaving a correspondingly Within this fold are circular muscular Fiji. 251. i A J i /}! i' narrow opening (fig. 266, p), fibres, belonging to the general system of circular fibres of the alimentary canal, which are here col- lected in the form of a strong band, whilst the lon- gitudinal muscular fibres and the peritoneal coat pass over the pyloric fold to the duodenum, and do not enter into its formation (fig. 253). Externally the pylorus may be easily felt, like a thick- ened ring, at the right end of the stomach, where also a slight external constriction is visible. Internally its opening is usually circular and less than half an inch across, so that it is the narrowest part of the whole alimentary canal. Occasionally the orifice is oval, and it is often placed a little to one side. Sometimes the circular rim is imperfect, and there are found instead two crescentic folds, placed one above and the other below the passage (Huschke) ; and, lastly, there is occasion- ally but one such crescentic fold. Fig. 251.—Lymphatics of the Human Gastric Mucous Membrane, Injected (from Loven). The tubules are only faintly indicated ; a, muscu- laris mucosae ; b, plexus of fine vessels at base of glands ; c, plexus of larger, valved lymphatics in submucosa. THE SMALL INTESTINE. The small intestine (fig. 252, D, j, i) commences at the pylorus, and after many convolutions terminates in the large intestine. It measures on an average about twenty feet in length in the adult, and gradually becomes slightly narrower from its upper to its lower end. Its convolutions occupy the middle and lower part of the abdomen, and are surrounded by the large intestine. They are con- nected with the back of the abdominal cavity, and are held in their position by a fold of the peritoneum, named the mesentery, and by numerous blood-vessels and nerves. The small intestine is arbitrarily divided into three portions, which have received different names ; the first ten or twelve inches im- mediately succeeding to the stomach, and comprehending the widest and most fixed part of the tube, being called the duodenum, the upper two-fifths of the remainder being named the jejunum, and the lower three-fifths the ileum. There are no distinct lines of demarcation between these three parts, but there are certain peculiarities of connec- tion and certain differences of internal structure to be observed in