S04 DEVELOPMENT OF THE UEO-GENITAL ORGANS. Fig. 598. Fig. 598.—Enlarged View from before of the Left Although blood ceases at once to pass through the foramen ovale from the moment of birth, or as soon as the left auricle becomes filled with the blood returning from the lungs, and the pressure within the two auricles is equalised, yet the actual closure of the foramen is more tardy than any of the other changes now referred to. It is gradually effected by the union of the forepart of the valvular fold forming the floor of the fossa ovalis with the margin of the annulus on the left side ; but the crescentic margin is generally perceptible in the left auricle as a free border beyond the place of union and not unfrequently the union remains incomplete, so that a probe may be passed through the reduced aperture. In many cases a wider aperture remains for more or less of the first year of infancy, and in certain instances there is such a failure of the union of the valve as to allow of the continued passage of venous blood, especially when the circulation is disturbed by over-exertion, from the right to the left auricle, as occurs in the mal- formation attending the morbus cceruleus. DEVELOPMENT OF THE GENITAL AND URINARY ORGANS. The development of the permanent genital and urinary organs in Wolffian Body before the Establishment of the distinction of Sex (from Farre after Kobelt). a, a, I, d, tubular structure of the Wolffian body ; e, Wolffian duct ; /, its upper extremity; fj, its termina- tion in x, the uro-genital sinus ; h, the duct of Muller ; i, its upper still closed extremity ; k, its lower end ter- minating in the uro-genital sinus ; I, the mass of blastema for the reproductive organ, ovary or testicle. birds and mammals, is preceded by the formation of a temporary glandular organ with which the principal parts of both these sets of organs are in their origin connected. These bodies are named the Wolffian bodies, after their discoverer, C. F. Wolff. From this close association of these organs, it becomes neces- sary to describe their development together. PRIMARY FORMATION OF THE URO-GENITAL SYSTEM. Wolffian "bodies.—The Wolffian bodies occupy a considerable space in the abdominal cavity of birds and mammals from an early period of foetal life, extending at first from the fifth or sixth protovertebral seg- ments to near the caudal extremity, in the form of two reddish prominent ridges, one on each side of the primitive intestine, and below the proto- vertebral columns and primitive aortas. They are thickest in the middle of their length, and taper somewhat at their upper and lower extremities. They consist, when fully formed, of short slightly convoluted tubes running transversely, connected on the inner side with vascular glome- ruli, very similar to the Malpighian corpuscles of the permanent kidneys, and leading along the outer border into a tube named the