G42 THE EAE. behind the vestibule, into which they open by five apertures, the con- tiguous ends of two of the canals being joined. They are unequal in length, but each tube is bent so as to form about two-thirds of a circle ; Fig. 452. Fig. 453. Fig. 452.—Right Bony Labyrinth, viewed from the Outer Side (after o h Sommerring). ~ Tlie specimen here represented is prepared by separating piecemeal the looser sub- stance of the petrous bone from the dense walls which immediately enclose the laby- rinth. 1, the vestibule ; 2, fenestra ovalis ; 3, superior semicircular canal; 4, horizontal or external canal ; 5, posterior canal ; * * *, ampulla? of the semicircular canals ; 6, first turn of the cochlea; 7, second turn ; 8, apex ; 9, fenestra rotunda. The smaller figure in outline below shows the natural size. Fig. 453.—View op the Interior of the Left Labyrinth (from Sommerring). -j-2 The bony wall of the labyrinth is removed superiorly and externally. 1, fovea hemi-elliptica ; 2, fovea hemispherica -; 3, common opening of the superior and posterior semicircular canals ; 4, opening of the aqueduct of the vestibule ; 5, the superior, 6, the posterior, and 7, the external semicircular canals ; 8, spiral tube of the cochlea (scala tympani) ; 9, opening of the aqueduct of the cochlea ; 10, placed on the lamina spiralis in the scala vestibuli. and each presents, at one end, a slightly dilated part, called the ampulla. The canals are compressed laterally, and measure about ^th of an inch across ; but in the ampulla each has a diameter of y^th of an inch. The canals differ from one another in direction, in length, and in position with regard to the vestibule. The superior semicircular canal (fig. 452, 3, fig. 458, 5) is vertical and transverse, and it rises higher than any other part of the labyrinth ; its place is indicated by a smooth arched projection on the upper surface of the petrous bone. The ampullary end of this canal is the external and anterior, and opens by a distinct orifice into the upper part of the vestibule ; whilst the opposite extremity joins the non-dilated end of the posterior semicir- cular canal, and opens by a common aperture with it into the back part of the vestibule (fig. 453, 3). The posterior semicircular canal (fig. 452, 5, fig. 453, 6), vertical and longitudinal in direction, is the longest of the three tubes : its ampullary end is placed at the lower and back part of the vestibule ; and the opposite end terminates in the common canal above described. The external semicircular canal (fig. 452, 4, fig. 453, 7) arches horizontally outwards, and opens by two distinct orifices into the upper and back part of the vestibule. The