274 THE LUNGS. Pulmonary substance.—The substance of the lung is mainly com- posed of numerous small lobules which are attached to the ramifications of the air-tubes, and are held together by those tubes, by the blood- vessels, and by interlobular areolar tissue. These lobules are of various sizes, the smaller uniting into larger ones; they are bounded by flattened sides, and compactly fitted to each other and to the larger air-tubes and vessels of the lungs, those on the surface of the organ having bases, turned outwards, from half a line to a line in diameter. Though mutually adherent by means of fine areolar tissue, they are quite distinct one from the other, and may be readily separated by dissection in the lungs of young animals, and in those of the human foetus. They may be regarded as lungs in miniature, the same elements entering into their composition as form the lung itself. The structure of a single lobule represents in fact that which is essential in the entire organ, each being made up of the following constituents: the air-tubes and their terminating air-cells, the pulmonary and bronchial blood- vessels, with lymphatics, nerves, and interstitial areolar tissue. The principal divisions of the bronchi, as they pass into the lungs, divide into tubes of less calibre, and these again subdivide in succes- sion into smaller and smaller bronchial tubes, or bronchia, which, Fig. 182. Fig. 182.—Portion of Transverse Section of a Bronchial Tube (|-inch in Diameter) (F. E. Schultze). Magnified 30 Diameters. a, cartilage and fibrous layer with mucous glands, and, in the outer part, a little fat; in the middle, the duct of a gland opens on the inner surface of the tube ; b, annular layer of involuntary muscular fibres ; c, elastic layer, the elastic fibres in bundles which are seen cut across ; d, columnar ciliated epithelium. diverging in all directions, never anastomose, but terminate separately in the pulmonary lobules. The prevailing form of division is dichoto- mous ; but sometimes three branches arise together, and often lateral branches are given off at intervals from the sides of a main trunk. The larger branches diverge at rather acute angles, but the more remote and smaller ramifications spring less and less acutely. After a certain stage of subdivision each bronchial tube is reduced to a very small sizey and, forming what has been termed a lobular bronchial tube (fig. 184, c),