THE TEETH. 322 the gum behind the germs of the milk teeth, above and behind in the upper jaw, below and behind in the lower. In the meantime, a papilla appears in the bottom of each, (that for the central incisor appearing first, at about the sixth month,) and they become closed in above in a similar manner to the germs of the temporary teeth as already described. When these changes have taken place, the sac of the per- manent tooth adheres to the back of that for the temporary tooth. Both of them then continue to grow rapidly, and after a time it is found that the bony socket not only forms a cell for the reception of the milk-sac, but also a small posterior recess or niche for the permanent- tooth-sac, with which the recess keeps pace in its growth. In the lower jaw, to which our description may now, for convenience, be confined, it is found that at length the permanent sac so far recedes in the bone as to be lodged in a special osseous chamber at some distance below and behind the milk-tooth, the two being completely separated from each other by a bony partition. In descending in the jaw, the sac for the permanent tooth acquires at first a pear-shape, and is then connected with the gum by a solid pedicle (fig. 222, I., II., c). The recess in the jaw (a) has a similar form, drawn out into a long canal for the pedicle which opens on the edge of the jaw, by an aperture behind the corre- sponding milk-tooth. The permanent tooth is thus separated from the socket of the milk-tooth by a bony partition, against which, as well as against the root of the milk-tooth just above it, it presses in its rise through the gum, so that these parts are in a greater or less extent absorbed. When this has proceeded far enough, the milk-tooth be- comes loosened, falls out or is removed, and the permanent tooth takes its place. The absorption of the dental substance commences at or near the ends of the fangs, and proceeds upwards until nothing but the crown remains. The cement is first attacked, and then the dentine: but the process is similar in the two tissues. The change is not pro- duced merely by pressure, but, as in the case of the absorption of bone, through the agency of multi-nucleated absorbing cells or ostoclastSj. developed at the time, and applied to the surface of the tooth. 4^ Fig. 223.—Part of the Lower Jaw op a Child of Three or Four Years Old, SHOWING THE KeLATIONS OF THE TEMPORARY AND PERMANENT TEETH. The specimen contains all the milk-teeth of the right side, together with the incisors of the left; the inner plate of the jaw has been removed, so as to expose the sacs of all the permanent teeth of the right side, except the eighth or wisdom tooth, which is not yet formed. The large sac near the ramus of the jaw is that of the first permanent molar, &nd above and behind it is the commencing rudiment of the second molar.