THE FEMALE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS. 460 The mucous membrane is whitish, except near the orifice; it is raised into longitudinal plicae, -which are not entirely obliterated by distension, especially one which is particularly marked on the lower or posterior surface of the urethra. Near the bladder the membrane is soft and pulpy, with many tubular mucous glands. Lower down these increase in size and lie in groups between the longitudinal folds, and immediately within and around the orifice, the lips of which are ele- vated, are several larger and wider crypts. The lining membrane is covered with a scaly epithelium, but near the bladder the particles become spheroidal. The submucous areolar tissue contains elastic fibres. Outside this there is a highly vascular structure, in which are many large veins. Between the anterior and posterior layers of the triangular ligament, the female urethra is em- braced by the fibres of the compressor urethrae muscle. The vessels and nerves of the female urethra are very numerous, and are derived from the same sources as those of the vagina. THE VAGINA. The vagina is a membranous and dilatable passage, extending from the vulva to the uterus, the neck of which is embraced by it. It rests below and behind on the rectum, supports the bladder and urethra in front, and is enclosed between the levatores ani muscles at the sides. It is slightly curved and is directed upwards and backwards : its axis corresponding below with that of the outlet of the pelvis, and higher up with that of the pelvic cavity. In consequence of its curvature and its reaching higher on the back than on the front of the os uteri, its length is greater along the posterior than along the anterior wall, by about an inch and a half. Each end of the vagina is somewhat nar- rower than the middle part: the lower, which is continuous with the vulva, is the narrowest part, and has its long diameter from before backwards ; the middle part is widest from side to side, being flattened from before backwards, so that its anterior and posterior walls are ordinarily in contact with each other : at its upper end it is rounded, and expands to receive the vaginal portion of the neck of the uterus, which is embraced by it at some distance above the os uteri. The vagina reaches higher up on the cervix uteri behind than in front, so that the uterus appears, as it were, to be inserted into its anterior wall. On the inner surface of the vagina, anteriorly and posteriorly, a slightly elevated ridge extends from the lower end upwards in the middle line, forming the columns of the vagina, or columnar rugarum. Numerous dentated transverse ridges, called rugce, are also observed, particularly in persons who have not borne children, running at right angles from the columns. These columns and rugae are most evident near the entrance of the vagina and on the anterior surface, and gradually become less marked, and disappear towards its upper end. Structure and connections.—The walls of the vagina are thickest in front, in the vicinity of the urethra, which indeed may be said to be imbedded in the anterior wall of the vaginal passage ; in other situa- tions they are thinner. The vagina is firmly connected by areolar tissue to the neck of the bladder, and only loosely to the rectum and levatores ani muscles ; at the upper end, for about a fourth part of its length, its posterior surface receives a covering from the peritoneum,