PAPILLAE OF TONGUE. 329 tudinal folds, which are studded with taste-buds, exists in the human tongue, and is regarded as representing a papilla foliata. According to Engelmann, each taste-bud is composed of from 15 to 30 cells. The taste organs of the Amphibia have been longer recognised. They occur in the form, not of buds but of patches interspersed here and there amongst the ordinary ciliated and columnar epithelium which covers the upper surface and sides of the tongue.* Flask-shaped bodies, resembling the taste-buds in structure, were long since described by Leydig as occurring in fish. ;They are found both in the skin and in the mucous membrane of the mouth, and are believed to be gustatory organs. Fur. 230. The fungiform papillae, more numerous than the last, are small rounded eminences scattered over the middle and fore part of the dorsum of the tongue (fig. 226, 3) ; but they are found in greater numbers and closer together at the apex and near the borders. They are easily distinguished in the living tongue owing to their deep red colour. They are narrow at their point of attachment, but are gradually enlarged towards their free extremities, which are blunt and rounded (fig. 230). The conical and filiform papillse are the most numerous of all, as well as the smallest. They are minute, conical, tapering, or cylindrical emi- nences, which are densely set over the greater part of the dorsum of the tongue (fig. 226, 4), but towards the base gradually disappear. They are arranged in lines diverging from the raphe, at first in an oblique direc- tion like the two ranges of the pa- pillae vallatse, but gradually becoming transverse towards the tip of the tongue. At the sides they are longer and more slender, and arranged in pa- rallel rows, perpendicular to the border of the tongue. The secondary papillae, borne by the filiform, are peculiar both in contain- ing a number of elastic fibres, giving them greater firmness, and in the character of their epithelial covering, which is dense and imbricated, and forms a separate process over each, greater in length than the papilla which it covers (fig. 231, e, /). Over some of the filiform papillae these processes form a pencil of fine fibres, approaching in some cases in appearance to hairs. Fig. 230.—Surface and Sectional view of a Fungiform Papilla (from Kolliker after Todd and Bowman). A, the surface of a fungiform papilla partially denuded of its epi- thelium (35 diameters) ; p, secon- dary papilla? ; e, epithelium. • B, section of a fungiform papilla with the Wood-vessels injected, a, artery ; v, vein ; c, capillary loops of simple papilla? in the neighbour- hood, covered by the epithelium ; d, capillary loops of the secondary pa- pilla? ; e, epithelium. * Billroth in Archiv f. Anat. u. Phys. 1858: Hoyer in the same journal for 1S59 Axel Key, in the same for 1861 : Engelmann in Zeitsch. f. Wiss. Zool. 1867.