BLOOD-VESSELS. 164 the circulation of the blood. Its course from the left ventricle along the aorta, throughout the body, and back by the venae cavaa to the right ventricle, is named the greater or systemic circulation, and its passage through the lungs by the pulmonary artery and pulmonary veins from the right to the left side of the heart, is termed the lesser or pulmonary circulation; but the blood must go through both the greater and the lesser circulation in order to perform a complete circuit, or to return to the point from which it started. As the vessels employed in the circulation through the lungs have been named pulmonary, so the aorta which conveys the blood to the system at large is named the systemic artery, and the venae cavae the systemic veins ; whilst the two sets of capillaries interposed between the arteries and veins, the one in the lungs, the other in the body generally, are respectively termed the pul- monary and the systemic capillaries. The blood flows in the arteries from trunk to branches, and from larger to smaller but more numerous tubes ; it is the reverse in the veins, except in the case of the vena portce, a vein which carries blood into the liver. This advehent vein, though constituted like other veins in the first part of its course, divides on entering the liver into numerous branches, after the manner of an artery, sending its blood through these branches and through the capillary vessels of the liver into the efferent hepatic veins to be by them conducted into the inferior vena cava and the heart. The different parts of the sanguiferous system above enumerated may be contemplated in another point of view, namely, according to the kind of blood which they contain or convey. Thus the left cavities of the heart, the pulmonary veins, and the aorta or systemic artery, contain red or florid blood fit to circulate through the body ; on the other hand, the right cavities of the heart with the venae cavae, or systemic veins, and pulmonary artery, contain dark blood requiring to be transmitted through the lungs for renovation. The former or red- blooded division of the sanguiferous system, commencing by the capil- laries of the lungs, ends in the capillaries of the body at large ; the latter or dark-blooded part commences in the systemic capillaries and terminates- in those of the lungs. The heart occupies an intermediate position be- tween the origin and termination of each, and the capillaries connect the dark and the red sets of vessels together at their extremities, and serve as the channels through which the blood passes from the one part of the sanguiferous system to the other, and in which it undergoes its alternate changes of colour, since it becomes dark as it traverses the systemic capillaries and red again in passing through those of the lungs. ARTERIES. These vessels were originally supposed to contain air. This error, which had long prevailed in the schools of medicine, was refuted by Galen, who showed that the vessels called arteries, though for the most part found empty after death, really contain blood in the living- body. Mode of Distribution.—The arteries usually occupy protected situations ; thus, after coming out of the great visceral cavities of the body, they run along the limbs on the aspect of flexion, and not upon that of extension where they would be more exposed to accidental injury.