212 THE SKIN. outlines of the individual cells. Immediately above this, which may be looked upon as the commencement of the horny layer of the epi- dermis (see below), is a stratum of Fig- 140- considerable thickness in which the cells are much enlarged, and the nuclei in many cases no longer visible : towards the surface they pass into the hard flattened scales which are to be thrown off by desquamation. As the cells change their form, they undergo chemical and physical changes in the nature of their contents ; for in the deeper layers they consist of a soft, granu- lar, protoplasmic matter, soluble in acetic acid, whilst the superficial ones are transparent, dry, and firm, and are not affected by that reagent. It would seem as if their contents were converted into horuy matter, and that a portion of this substance is employed to cement them to- gether. These dry hard scales may be made to reassume their cellular form, by exposure for a few minutes to a solution of caustic potash or soda, and then to water. Under this treatment they are softened by the alkali, and distended by imbibition of water. The more firm and transparent superficial part, or horny layer, of the epidermis, d, may be separated after maceration from the deeper, softer, more opaque, and recently formed part, which constitutes what is called the Malpighian layer, or rete mucosum, c. Many of the cells of the cuticle contain pigment grannies, and often give the membrance more or less of a tawny colour, even in the white races of mankind ; the blackness of the skin in the negro depends entirely on the cuticle. The pigment is contained principally in the cells of the deep layer or rete mucosum, and appears to fade as they approach the surface, but even the superficial part possesses a certain degree of colour. More special details respecting the pigment have been already given (page 51). Between and amongst the cells of the Malpighian layer leucocytes are occasionally observed. They have no doubt made their way here from the corium. The under or attached surface of the cuticle is moulded on the adjoin- ing surface of the corium, and, when separated by maceration or pu- trefaction, presents impressions corresponding exactly with the papillary or other eminences, and the furrows or depressions of the true skin; the more prominent inequalities of the latter are marked also on the outer surface of the cuticle, but less accurately. Fine tubular prolon- gations of the cuticle sink down into the ducts of the sweat-glands, and are often partially drawn out from their recesses when the cuticle is Fig. 140.—Skin of the Negro, vertical SECTION, MAGNIFIED 250 DIAMETERS (Kolliker). a, a, cutaneous papillae ; b, under- most and dark-coloured layer of oblong vertical epidermis-cells; c, mucous or Malpighian layer ; d} horny layer.