MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF THE TYMPANUM, 639 rian fissure to the attachment of the short process of the incus posteriorly. The tendon of the tensor tympani muscle passing from within to be inserted below that line, pulls the handle of the malleus inwards (fig-. 450. t), while the laxator tympani inserted above that line, by pulling- the head of the bone inwards (Z), moves the handle outwards. The incus, moving- along with the malleus, pushes the stapes inwards towards the internal ear when the membrana tympani is made tight, and draws that bone in an opposite direction, when the membrana tympani is relaxed. In this movement the head of the stapes is slightly raised as well as pressed in- wards, and the upper margin of its base moves more than the lower. But the cavity of the inner ear is full of liquid : and its walls are unyielding, except at the fenestra rotunda ; when, therefore, the stapes is pushed inwards the secondary membrane of the tympanum, which blocks up the fenestra rotunda, must be made tense by pressure from within. The attachment of the handle of the malleus, however, to the membrana tympani allows greater freedom of movement to that process than is allowed to the stapes by the ligaments of its base, and when the move- ment of the stapes ceases, the malleus rotates on the head of the incus without dragging the stapes further from the fenestra ovalis; and hence, probably, the necessity of a moveable articulation between those bones. The action of the stapedius muscle is obviously to draw the head of the stapes backwards, in doing- which the hinder end of the base of that bone will be pressed against the margin of the fenestra ovalis, while the fore part will be withdrawn from the fenestra * THE LINING- MEMBEANE OF THE TYMPANUM. The mucous membrane of the tympanum is continuous with that of the pharynx through the Eustachian tube, and is further prolonged from the tympanum backwards into the mastoid cells. Two folds which cross the breadth of the cavity descend from the part of the membrane which lines the roof. The anterior fold turns round the tendon of the tensor tympani muscle ; the posterior fold passes round the stapes. The malleus and incus are invested by the lining of the outer wall of the cavity. The mucous membrane which lines the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube resembles much the mem- brane of the pharynx, with which it is immediately continuous ; it is thick and vascular, is covered by laminated epithelium surmounted by vibratile cilia, and is provided with many simple mucous glands which pour out a thick secretion: in the osseous part of the tube, however, this membrane becomes gradually thinner. In the tym- panum and the mastoid cells the mucous membrane is paler, thinner, and less vascular, and secretes a less viscid, somewhat yellow fluid. Between it and the periosteum is a more or less developed network of fibrous bundles, which are here and there raised above the general surface, causing corresponding projections of the mucous membrane. Moreover, in various places on the interlacing bundles, peculiar swellings occur of various sizes, which appear to be caused by the super-addition of concentrically arranged fibres upon the smaller bundles, and produce an appearance similar to that of miniature Pacinian corpuscles (Politzer, Kessel). The epithelium in the tympanic cavity is for the most part columnar and ciliated, but the roof, the pro- montory, the ossicula, and the membrana, are covered with a simple layer of flattened, non-ciliated cells (v. Troeltsch). * For further information with regard to the anatomical relations of the bones and membranes, and the mode in which they act, see Helmholtz, Die Mechanik der Grehor- knochelchen und des Trommelfells, Pniiger's Archiv, vol. i. ; also English Translation, American edition. VOL. II. T T