598 THE EYE. The larger brandies of the nerves are covered with a sheath of flat- tened cells which, as before mentioned, are in connection with the cor- puscles of the cornea. At the points of junction of the plexus, nuclei are frequently seen, but these appear to belong to the ensheathing cells, and not to be interpolated in the course of the fibres. THE CHOROID COAT. The choroid coat of the eye (tunica choroidea s. vasculosa) is a dark brown membrane lying between the sclerotic and the retina. It reaches forwards nearly to the cornea, where it ends by a series of plaits or folds named ciliary processes, disposed in a circle projecting in- wards at the back of the circumferential por- tion of the iris. At the hinder part, where the tunic is thickest, the optic nerve is trans- mitted. The outer surface is rough, and is connected to the scler- otic by loose connec- tive tissue and by ves- sels and nerves. The inner surface, which is smooth, is covered by the hexagonal pig- mented cells of the retina (which were formerly described as to the Fig. 405.—Choroid Membrane and Iris exposed by THE REMOVAL OF THE SCLEROTIC AND CORNEA (after Zinn). Twice the natural size. a, one of the segments of the sclerotic thrown back ; b, ciliary muscle; c, iris ; e, one of the ciliary nerves ; /, one of the vasa vorticosa or choroidal veins. choroid), The ciliary processes, about seventy in number, are arranged radially belonging Fig. 406. Fig. 406.—Ciliary Processes as seen from ^^^^^^^ BEHIND. f ^ ' 1, posterior surface of the iris, with the sphincter muscle of the pupil ; 2, anterior part of the choroid coat; 3, one of the ciliary processes, of which about seventy are re- \ presented. J together in form of a circle. They I consist of larger and smaller folds or thickenings, without regular alternation; the small folds number about one-third of the large. Each of the larger folds, measuring about ^oth of an inch in length and TVth in depth, forms a rounded projec- tion at its inner or axial end, which is free from the pigment which