MARROW. 91 The animal basis is here, however, of a totally different nature from that of the bone beneath ; for, when the earthy matter is extracted by means of an acid, the tissue which remains has all the characters of cartilage. As to the mode in which the earthy matter is connected with the animal substance, we know that the combination is very intimate, but the manner in which it is effected is not fully understood ; probably there is a chemical union between the collogenous matter and the earthy salts. The periosteum, as already stated, is a fibrous membrane which covers the bones externally. It adheres to them very firmly, and in- vests every part of their surface, except where they are covered with cartilage or connected to other bones by fibro-cartilage. According to Kolliker it is composed of two different layers; the outer, consisting of white fibres, and containing occasional fat-cells, is the means of sup- porting numerous blood-vessels destined for the bone, which ramify in the membrane, and at length send their minute branches into the Haversian canals of the compact substance, accompanied by processes of filamentous tissue derived from, or at least continuous with, the periosteum. The inner layer is made up of elastic fibres; and frequently presents the appearance of several distinct strata of " elastic membrane." Between those, however, and the proper osseous tissue there is, in the young bone at least, a fibrous stratum containing a number of granular corpuscles (fig. 62, c). Fine nerves spread out in the periosteum ; they are chiefly associated with the arteries, and for the most part destined for the subjacent bone ; but some are for the membrane itself. By treating the membrane with nitrate of silver, lymphatics are discovered in it accompanying the blood-vessels, and, as in other aponeurotic structures, extensive epithelioid markings, covering a great part of the surface, are brought into view. The chief use of this membrane is evidently to support the vessels going to the bone, and afford them a bed in which they may subdivide into fine branches, and so enter the dense tissue at numerous points. Hence, when the periosteum is stripped off at any part, there is great risk that the denuded portion of the bone will die and exfoliate. The periosteum also contributes to give firmer hold to the tendons and ligaments where they are fixed to bones ; indeed, these fibrous structures become continuous and incorporated with it at their attachment. Its relation to the growth of bone will be referred to later on. The marrow (medulla ossium) is lodged in the interior of the bones ; it fills up the hollow shaft of long bones and occupies the cavities of the cancellated structure ; it extends also into the Haversian canals— at least into the larger ones—along with the vessels. A fine layer of a highly vascular areolar tissue lines the medullary canal, as well as the smaller cavities which contain marrow ; this has been named the medullary membrane, internal periosteum, or endosteum ; but it cannot be detached as a continuous membrane. Its vessels partly supply the contiguous osseous substance, and partly proceed to the clusters of adipose vesicles, among which there is but very little connective tissue, in consequence perhaps of their being contained and supported by bone. The marrow differs considerably in different situations. Within the shaft of the long bones it is of the character of ordinary adipose tissue,