CAPILLARIES. 175 crescentic fold at the orifice of the vena cava inferior, and another more com- pletely covering- the opening of the principal coronary vein. Many veins are destitute of valves. Those which measure less than a line in diameter rarely, if ever, have them. In man, valves are wanting in the trunks of the superior and inferior vense cavas, in the trunk and branches of the portal vein, in the hepatic, renal, and uterine veins ; also in the spermatic (ovarian) veins of the female. In the male, these last-mentioned veins have valves in their course, and in each sex a little valve is occasionally found in the renal vein, placed over the entrance of the spermatic. The pulmonary veins, those within the cranium and vertebral canal, and those of the cancellated texture of bone, as well as the trunk and branches of the umbilical vein, are without valves. Valves are not generally found, and when present are few in number, in the azygos and intercostal veins. On the other hand, they are numerous in the veins of the limbs (and especially of the lower limbs), which are much exposed to pressure in the muscular movements or from other causes, and have often to support the blood against the direction of gravity. No valves are met with in the veins of reptiles and fishes, and not many in those of birds. SMALLER ARTERIES AND VEINS AND CAPILLARIES. That the blood passes from the arteries into the veins was of course a necessary part of the doctrine of the circulation, as demonstrated by Harvey; but the mode in which the passage takes place was not ascertained until some time after the date of his great discovery. The discovery of the capillary vessels, and of the course of the blood through them, was destined to be one of the first fruits of the use of the micro- scope in anatomy and physiology, and was reserved for Malpighi (in 1661). When the web of a frog's foot is viewed through a microscope of moderate power (as in fig. 115), the blood is seen passing rapidly along the small arteries, and thence more slowly through a network of finer channels, by which it is conducted into the veins. These small vessels, interposed between the finest branches of the arteries and the commencing veins, are the capillary vessels. They may be seen also in the lungs or mesentery of the frog and other batra- cliians, and in the tail and gills of their larvae : also in the tail of small fishes ; in the mesentery of mice or other small quadrupeds ; and generally, in short, in the transparent vascular parts of animals which can readily be brought under the microscope. These vessels can also be demonstrated by means of fine injections of coloured material, not only in mem- branous parts, such as those above men- tioned, but also in more thick and opaque tissues, which can be subsequently rendered transparent. The capillary vessels of a part are most commonly arranged in a network, the branches of which are of tolerably uniform size, though not all strictly equal ; and thus they do not divide into smaller branches like the arteries, or unite into Fig. 115. Fig. 115.—Capillary Blood- vessels in the Web of a Frog's Foot as seen with the Microscope (after Allen Thom- son). The arrows indicate the course of the blood.