124 MUSCULAR TISSUE. stimulus may be either directly applied to the nerve of the muscle, as when that nerve is itself mechanically irritated or galvanised; or it may be first made to act on certain other nerves, by which its influence is, so to speak, conducted in the first instance to the brain or spinal cord, and then transferred or reflected to the muscular nerve. The stimuli to which muscles are obedient are of various kinds; those best ascertained are the following-, viz. : 1. Mechanical irritation of almost any sort, under which head is to be included sudden extension of the muscular fibres. 2. Chemical stimuli, as by the application of salt or acrid substances. 3. Elec- trical ; usually by means of a galvanic current made to pass through the muscular fibres or along the nerve. 4. Sudden heat or cold ; these four may be classed together as physical stimuli. Next, mental stimuli, viz : 1. The operation of the will, or volition. 2. Emotions, and some other involuntary states of the mind. Lastly, there still remain exciting causes of muscular motions in the economy, which, although they may probably turn out to be physical, are as yet of doubt- ful nature, and these until better known may perhaps without impropriety be called organic stimuli; to this head may be also referred, at least provisionally, some of the stimuli which excite convulsions and other involuntary motions which occur in disease. Duration of irritability after death.—It is known that, if the supply of nu- trient material be cut off from a muscle by arresting the flow of blood into it, its contractility will be impaired, and soon extinguished altogether, but will after a time be recovered again if the supply of blood be restored. The influence of the blood supplied to muscles in maintaining their contractility has been strikingly shown by Brown-Sequard, who has succeeded in restoring muscular contractility in the bodies both of man and animals some time after death, and after it had become to all appearance extinct, by injecting into the vessels arterial blood deprived of its fibrin, or defibrinated venous blood previously reddened by expo- sure to the air. In warm-bloocled animals in which the nutritive process is more active, and the expenditure of force more rapid, the maintenance of irritability is more closely dependent on the supply of blood and the influence of oxygen, so that it sooner fails after these are cut off. In accordance with this statement, it is known that while the muscles of man and quadrupeds cease to be irritable within a few hours after death, and those of birds still sooner, the muscular irritability will remain in many reptiles and fishes, even for days after the extinction of sensation and volition and the final cessation of the respiration and circulation—that is, after systemic death. A difference of the same kind is observed among warm-blooded animals in different conditions ; thus irritability endures longer in new-born animals than in those which have enjoyed respira- tion for some time and are more dependent on that function ; and, in like manner, it is very lasting in hybernating animals killed during their winter sleep. But the duration of this property differs also hi different muscles of the same animal. From numerous careful observations Nysten concluded that in the human body its extinction takes place in the following order, viz. : 1, the left ventricle of the heart ; 2, the intestines and stomach ; 3, the urinary bladder ; 4, the right ventricle ; in these generally within an hour ; 5, the gullet; 6, the iris ; 7, the voluntary muscles, a, of the trunk, b, of the lower and c, of the upper extremities ; 8, the left auricle, and, 9, the right auricle of the heart, which last was on this account styled by Galen the " ultimum moriens." In one case Nysten observed the right auricle to continue irritable for sixteen hours and a half after death. But it has been recently found that a voluntary muscle may give signs of a certain degree of irritability even later than this, if it be struck a smart blow with a blunt edge, such as the back of a knife, across the direction of the fibres. The contraction then produced is quite local, and confined to the parts struck. Funke states that he and the brothers Weber obtained this result in the body of a decapitated criminal twenty-four hours after death. The time of duration is affected by the mode of death. Thus the irritability is said to be almost wholly and immediately extinguished by a fatal stroke of lightning, and to disappear very speedily in the bodies of persons stifled by noxious vapours, such as carbonic acid, and especially sulphuretted hydrogen.