248 THE HEART. them back through the auricular orifice ; the papillary muscles, shortening as the cavity of the ventricle itself shortens, are supposed thus to prevent the valve from yielding too much towards the auricle. In the angles between each pair of the principal segments of the auriculo-ventricular valves there may be found, but not constantly, as many small intermediate lobes. According to Kurschner (Wagner's Handworterbuch, art. " Herzthatigkeit"), three kinds of cords belong to each segment; a, the first set, generally two to four in number and proceeding from two different sets of papillae, or from one of these and the wall of the ventricle, run to the base or attached margin of the segment, and are there connected also with the tendinous ring round the auriculo- ventricular opening ; b, the second set, more numerous, and smaller than the first, proceed also from two adjacent papillary muscular groups, and are attached at intervals to the back or ventricular surface of each segment along two or more lines extending from the points of attachment of the tendons of the first order at the base of the valve to near its free extremity ; c, the third set, which are still more numerous and much finer, branch off from the preceding ones, and are attached to the back and edges of the thinner marginal portions of the valves. A few muscular fibres prolonged from the neighbouring walls penetrate into the segments of the auriculo-ventricular valves. A fibrous band, sometimes muscular, is often found stretching across the cavity of the right ventricle from the base of the anterior papillary muscle to the septum. It represents the strong "moderator" band found in the heart of the ox and of some other animals. The valve at the orifice of the pulmonary artery consists of three ■flaps, a right and left anterior and a posterior, named from their shape semilunar or sigmoid (figs. 167,6; 172 I): * they are constructed similarly to those on the left side at the root of the aorta : and as the characters of the last named are better marked, the more complete description will be reserved until these are treated of. The left auricle (fig. 170, 1') occupies the left and posterior part of the base of the heart. The atrium presents from behind, where it is best seen, a quadrilateral appearance. In front it is in con- tact with the aorta and pulmonary artery; behind, it receives two pulmonary veins on each side, those from the left lung entering very close together ; on the right, it is in contact with the other auricle. The auricular appendage (fig. 165, 6) is the only part of the left auricle seen from the front : it extends forwards from the left side of the atrium, and curves towards the right side, resting on the pulmo- nary artery. It is more curved as well as longer and narrower than that of the right auricle, and its margins are more deeply indented. The interior of the appendix presents musculi pectinati somewhat similar to those in the right side of the heart, but the walls of the sinus venosus are altogether smooth and even, and are also thicker than those of the right auricle. Posteriorly^the openings of the pulmonary veins are seen, usually two on each side, and without valves (fig. 170, 1). The two veins of one or both sides sometimes unite into one before enter- ing the auricle, whilst in other cases there is found an additional open- ing, most frequently on the right side. In the lower and fore part of the auricle is situated the left auriculo-ventricular orifice. It is of an oval form, and is rather smaller than the corresponding opening between the right auricle and ventricle. On the septum between the auricles, a * Sibson proposes to terra the whole apparatus guarding the arterial orifices the aortic or pulmonary valve, reserving the terms semilunar and sigmoid to denote the individual flaps or segments.