780 DEVELOPMENT OF THE ABDOMINAL GLANDS. more than the lining epithelium of the bile-ducts and gall-bladder, and the hepatic or glandular cells are entirely derived from mesoblast ; but, according to Foster and Balfour, following Eemak and the earlier observers, the cellular elements of the gland are stated to derive their origin from the hypoblast, and the mesoblast is mainly converted into Fig. 580. — Early Con- dition op the Liver IN THE CniCIC ON THE Third Day op Incu- bation (from J. Mul- ler.) f 1, the heart as a sim- ple curved tube; 2, 2, the intestinal tube; 3, conical protrusion of the coat of the commencing intestine, on which the blastema of the liver (4) is formed ; 4, portion of the layers of the germinal membrane, passing into the yolk-sac. The gall bladder is formed by extension from the wall of the main duct. The blood-vessels formed in the liver become branches of the main vein, which passes through the cellular mass. These are distinguish - able as an anterior and posterior set, the arrangement of which is such that the blood flows from stem to branches in the anterior, and from branches to stem in the posterior. Thus the distinction is estab- lished between portal and hepatic veins (see the Development of the Veins). The solid cylinders of the blastema represent the hepatic lobular tissue, the hollow processes the hepatic ducts ; but the origin of the finest ducts is not known. Perhaps each cellular cylinder may be looked upon as a collection of hepatic cells, in the centre of which is the minute duct, according to the view now taken of the structure of the adult liver (Foster and Balfour). The gall-bladder is at first tubular, and then has a rounded form. The alveoli in its interior appear about the sixth month. At the seventh month it first contains bile. In the foetus its direction is more horizontal than in the adult. The following are the principal peculiarities in the liver of the foetus Size.—In the human foetus, at the fifth or sixth week, the liver is so large that it is said to constitute one-half of the weight of the whole body. This propor- tion gradually decreases as development advances, until at the full period the relative weight of the foetal liver to that of the body is as 1 to 18. In early foetal life, the right and left lobes of the liver are of equal, or nearly equal, size. Later, the right preponderates, but not to such an extent as after birth. Immediately before birth the relative weight of the left lobe to the right is nearly as 1 to 1*6. Position.—In consequence of the nearly equal size of the two lobes, the posi- tion of the foetal liver in the abdomen is more symmetrical than in the adult. blood-vessels and the fibrous tissue of the ducts.