THE TEETH. 301 Numerous small glands, called labial glands, are found beneath the mucous membrane of the lips, around the opening of the mouth. They are situated between the mucous membrane and the orbicularis oris muscle. They are compound racemose glands of a rounded form, the largest of them not exceeding the size of a split pea; and they open into the mouth by distinct orifices. Small sebaceous glands also occur, at least occasionally, on the part of the red border of the lips which is seen when the mouth is closed. Between the buccinator muscle and the mucous membrane of the cheek are the buccal glands, similar to the labial glands, but smaller. Two or three glands, larger than the rest, found between the masseter and buccinator muscles, and opening by separate ducts near the last molar tooth, are called the molar glands. The secretion of these glands is understood to be mucus ; whether it has any of the specific properties of saliva is not known. The duct of the parotid gland also opens upon the inner surface of the cheek, opposite to the second upper molar tooth. Immediately within the lips and cheeks, are the dented arches, consist- ing of the teeth, gums, and alveolar borders of the maxilla?. The gums (gingivae) are composed of a dense connective tissue, cohering very closely with the periosteum of the alveolar processes, and covered by a red and highly vascular mucous membrane, which is smooth in its general surface, but is beset with fine papilla? in the immediate vicinity of the teeth. The epithelium covering it is, like that of the mouth generally, scaly and stratified, containing in the deeper layers numerous cells marked with ridges and furrows, like those described in the epidermis (p. 211). THE TEETH. In the human subject, as in mammalia generally, two sets of teeth make their appearance in the course of life, of which the first comprehends the temporary, deciduous, or milk teeth, whilst the second is named the permanent set. The temporary teeth are twenty in number, ten in each jaw, and the permanent set consists of thirty-two, sixteen above and sixteen below. Deficiencies in the number of teeth sometimes occur, and, on the other hand, it is frequently increased by one or more supernumerary teeth. These are usually small, and simple, and although generally distinct, they are sometimes attached to other teeth : they occur more frequently near the front than the hinder teeth, and are more often met with in the upper than in the lower jaw. GENERAL CHARACTERS OF THE TEETH. A tooth consists of three portions, viz., one which projects above the gums and is named the body or crown, another fixed in the alveolus or socket, the root, consisting of the fang or fangs—and a third, inter- mediate between the other two, and, from being more or less con- stricted, named the cervix or neck (fig. 201). The size and form of each of these parts vary in the different kinds of teeth. The roots of the teeth are accurately fitted to the alveoli of the jaws, in which they are implanted. Each alveolus is lined by periosteum (fig. 201, 4), which also invests the contained tooth as high as the cervix. This dental periosteum, sometimes named the periodontal membrane, is said to be richly supplied with nerves. It is blended with the dense