BASE. 535 posterior perforated space, the corpora albicantia, and the tuber cinereura, from which is prolonged the infundibulnm attached to the pituitary body. The posterior perforated space (locus perforatus posticus) (fig. 376, x ) is a deep fossa situated between the peduncles, the bottom of which is composed of greyish matter, connecting the diverging crura together. It is perforated by numerous small openings for the passage of blood-vessels ; and some horizontal white strire usually pass out of the grey matter and turn round the peduncles immediately above the pons. The corpora albicantia or mam miliaria are two round white emi- nences in front of this fossa, each about the size of a small pea, sur- rounded by grey matter, and connected together across the middle line. The corpora albicantia are formed, as will hereafter be explained, by the anterior extremities of the fornix ; hence they have also been named bulbs of the forn ix. In the foetus they are at first blended together, and they become separated about the beginning of the seventh month. In most vertebrate animals there is but one white eminence or corpus albicans in their place. The tuber cinereum (fig. 376, tc) is a lamina of grey matter extending forwards from the corpora albicantia to the optic commissure, to which it is attached, and forming, as afterwards described, part of the floor of the third ventricle. In the middle it is prolonged into a hollow conical process, the infundibulum, to the extremity of which is fixed the pituitary body. The pituitary body or liypojrfnjsis cerebri (fig. 376, h), formerly called pituitary gland, from its being erroneously supposed to discharge pituita into the nostrils, is a small reddish grey mass, of a somewhat flattened oval shape, widest in the transverse direction, and occupying the sella turcica of the sphenoid bone. It consists of two lobes, of which the anterior is larger, and concave behind, where it embraces the smaller posterior lobe. Its weight is from five to ten grains. In the adult it is solid, and of a firm consistence. The anterior lobe consists of two kinds of matter, one hard and grey, the other, situated within, softer and of a yellowish-white colour. The posterior lobe is darker and redder than the anterior. Both are very vascular. The pituitary body appears to approach in structure to the vascular or ductless glands, such as the thyroid and suprarenal bodies, &c. Ac- cording to Sharpey's observations, with which those of subsequent writers agree, it differs greatly in structure, at least in its anterior and larger lobe, from any other part of the encephalon. The substance of the anterior lobe appears to be constituted by a membranous tissue forming little round cavities or loculi, which are packed full of nu- cleated cells. The loculi are formed of transparent, simple membrane, with a few fibres and corpuscles resembliug elongated cell-nuclei dis- posed round their walls. The cells contained in the cavities are of various sizes and shapes, and not unlike nerve-cells or ganglion-globules ; they are collected into round clusters, filling the cavities, and are mixed with a semi-fluid granular substance. This thin granular matter, to- gether with the cells and little specks of a clear glairy substance like mucus, can be squeezed from the cut surface, in the form of a thick, white, cream-like fluid. In the foetus, the pituitary body is proportionally large, and contains a cavity