FORMATION OF THE GEE AT VEINS. 797 part of its extent it becomes the external jugular vein ; and near its lower end it receives small branches, which grow to be the external jugular and subclavian Fig. 594. — Diagrams illustrating THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE GrREAT Veins (after Kolliker). A, plan of the principal veins of the fcetus of about four weeks, or soon after the first formation of the vessels of the liver and the vena cava inferior. B, veins of the liver at a somewhat earlier period. C, principal veins of the foetus at the time of the first establishment of the placental circulation. D, veins of the liver at the same period. dc, the right and left ducts of Cuvier ; ca, the right and left cardinal veins ; j. j, the jugular veins ; s, the subclavian veins ; az, the azygos vein ; u, the um- bilical or left umbilical vein ; u', in B, the temporary right umbilical vein ; o, the omphalo-mesenteric vein ; o', the right omphalomesenteric vein ; m, the mesenteric veins ; p, the portal vein; p', p', the venae advehentes ; I, the duc- tus venosns ; I', V, the hepatic veins ; ci, vena cava inferior ; il, the division of the vena cava inferior into common iliac veins ; cr, the external iliac or crnral veins ; h, the hypogastric or in- ternal iliac veins, in the line of continua- tion of the primitive cardinal veins. In C, li, in clotted lines, the trans- verse branch of communication between the jugular veins which forms the left innominate vein ; ri, the right innomi- nate vein ; ca', the remains of the left cardinal vein by which the superior intercostal veins fall into the left in- nominate vein ; above p, the obliquely crossing vein by which the hemiazygos joins the azygos vein. Fig. 594. veins. The cardinal veins are the primitive vessels which return the blood from the "Wolffian bodies, the vertebral column, and the parietes of the trunk. The inferior vena cava is a vessel of later development, which opens into the trunk of the umbilical and omphalo-mesenteric veins, above the venas hepaticas reve- hentes. The iliac veins, which unite to form the inferior vena cava, communi- cate with the cardinal veins. The inferior extremities of the cardinal veins are persistent as the internal iliac veins. Above the iliac veins the cardinal veins are obliterated in a considerable part of their course ; their upper portions then become continuous with two new vessels, the posterior vertebral vein* of Rathke, which receive the lumbar and intercostal twigs. As development proceeds, the direction of the ducts of Cuvier is altered by the descent of the heart from the cervical into the thoracic region, and becomes continuous with that of the primitive jugular veins. A communicating branch makes its appearance, directed transversely from the junction of the left sub- clavian and jugular veins, downwards, and across the middle line to the right jugular : and further down in the dorsal region between the posterior vertebral veins a communicating- branch passes obliquely across the middle line from right