414 THE SUPRARENAL CAPSULES. as to form two sides of a triangle. The lower border is concave, and rests upon the anterior and inner part of the summit of the kidney, to which it is connected by loose areolar tissue : it is thick, and almost always deeply grooved. The posterior surface rests upon the diaphragm. Its anterior surface is covered on the right side by the liver, and on the left by the pancreas and spleen : it presents an irregular fissure named the Mlus, from which the suprarenal vein emerges (fig. 300, v). The right capsule, like the right kidney, is placed lower down than the left. Fig. 299. Fig. 300. Fig. 299.—Front view of the Right Kidney and Suprarenal Body of a full- grown Fcetus (Allen Thomson). This figure shows the tabulated form of the foetal kidney, r ; v, the renal vein and artery; u, the ureter ; s, the suprarenal capsule, the letter is placed near the sulcus in which the large veins (V) are seen emerging from the interior of the organ. Fig. 300. —Section of the Suprarenal Body. A vertical section of the suprarenal body of a foetus, twice the natural size, showing the lower notch by which it rests on the summit of the kidney, and the anterior notch by which the veins issue, together with the distinction between the medullary and cortical substance. The suprarenal capsules vary in size in different individuals, and the left is usually somewhat narrower at its base, but longer from above downwards, and larger than the right. They measure from an inch and a quarter to an inch and three-quarters in height, and about an inch and a quarter in width; their thickness is from two to three lines. The weight of each in the adult is from one to two drachms. Structure.—Besides a covering of areolar tissue mixed frequently with much fat, the suprarenal capsules have a thin fibrous investment. On the exterior their colour is yellowish or brownish-yellow. When divided (fig. 300), they are seen to consist of two substances : one, external or cortical, is of a deep yellow colour, firm and striated, and forms the principal mass of the organ ; the other, internal or medullary, is in the adult of a dark brownish-black hue, and so soft and pulpy that some anatomists have erroneously described a cavity within it.