76 CARTILAGE. congelation is not in reality owing to an admixture of gelatin derived from fibrous tissue not duly separated from the cartilage. Like gelatin, chondrin is thrown down from its solutions by tannic acid, alcohol, ether, creasote, and corrosive sublimate, and not by prussiate of potash. It differs from gelatin in being precipitated by the mineral and other acids, the acetic not excepted ; also by alum, sulphate of alumina, persulphate of iron, and acetate of lead ; the precipitates being soluble in an excess of the respective precipitants. The temporary cartilages are resolved into a matter which has the chemical reactions of chondrin, but does not gelatinise. The following analyses are by Hoppe Seyler : In 100 parts. Water. Solids. Organic. Inorganic. Costal Cartilage . . . 67*67 30-13 2'20 Articular Cartilage . . . 73'59 21*87 P54 The ashes from Costal Cartilage were found to contain in 100 parts : Sulphate of potash . . 26'66 Sulphate of soda . . -LLSl Chloride of sodium . . 6'11 Phosphate of soda . . 8*I2 Phosphate of lime . . 7*88 Phosphate of magnesia . 4*55 Frommherz and G-ugert obtained a small percentage of iron and considerable quantities of the carbonates of lime and soda. Development of Hyaline Cartilage.—The parts of the embryo which are about to become cartilages are made up at first of the common ■embryonic cells from which the tissues generally originate. The cell- contents clear up, the nucleus becomes more visible, and the cells, mostly of polygonal outline, appear surrounded by clear lines of pel- lucid substance, forming as it were a network of bright meshes inclosing them, but in reality consisting of the cohering capsules of the con- tiguous cells, and constituting all that exists of the matrix at this time.* Glycogen appears at an early period in the protoplasm of cartilage-cells. Rouget found it in the sheep's embryo of two months, both in ossifying cartilage and in the cartilages of the trachea. The subsequent changes consist in enlargement and multiplication of the cells and development of the intermediate matrix. The process is commonly described as follows, but it is necessary to mention that all the successive steps here described and represented (see fig. 4G) have not been actually traced:—The cartilage-cells first divide, a species of capsule being formed round each of the young cells (b), whilst the old one inclosing them becomes blended with the intercellular matrix, and is no longer traceable (c). The new cells, in turn, divide in the same way, so as to make a group of four, each of which is surrounded by its own capsule (d), whilst the capsules of the first descent (secondary) blend with the matrix (e) like their predecessor. It is doubtful how the capsule is produced ; whether excreted by the cell which it afterwards incloses, as held by Kolliker ; or formed by conversion of a superficial layer of the protoplasm of the cell-body, as taught by Max Schultze; or a primarily independent deposit around the cells. However this may be, there is at first no matrix but what is made up of the simple capsules. In further growth there is a difference, according as the cells do or do not undergo frequent division. In the * Cartilages, which retain this condition throughout life, have been termed " parenchy- matous." A good example of this is found in the cartilage of the mouse's ear, and in that which composes the notochord of the embryo.