474 THE OVARIES. absent from the succeeding stratum of the stroma, but somewhat larger cavities of the same kind, distended with fluid and containing ova, are observed in smaller numbers embedded in the ovarian stroma for a certain distance from the surface, but not extending to the deepest part or that near the hilus. Of this second set of Graafian follicles, the deepest are usually of the largest size, or most advanced. Further, in the ovaries of females who are approaching the period of puberty, and during the whole of the child-bearing period of life, there may be seen towards the surface, or even more or less projecting upon it, a few larger follicles of various sizes, from a twentieth to a sixth of an inch, which are the Graafian follicles with ova approaching or arrived at a state of maturity. The more advanced of these seem to have made their way from the deeper part by the absorption or at the expense of the ovarian substance between them and the surface. They still remain covered at the most projecting part by a thin layer of the fibrous stroma and the epithelium. The smaller blood-vessels running round the follicle from below, and minutely subdivided on its inner surface, converge towards a point near the middle of the most project- ing part, called the stigma. This marks the spot where the rupture of the vesicle ultimately occurs, when at the time of full maturation the vesicle opens, and its ovum and other contents escaping pass into the open extremity of the Fallopian tube. This rupture of a Graafian vesicle, or it may be of more than one, occurs in healthy females at every successive menstrual period. After the discharge of its contents, the Graafian follicle is rapidly filled with a peculiar reddish-yellow mass of granular elongated cells, which are rapidly developed in its interior, constituting the first stage of formation of the body termed corpus luteum. When pregnancy occurs, this body enlarges, and becoming more solid, advances to a fuller stage of development, which is maintained during the greater part of the time of utero-gestation. But in the un- impregnated female the corpus luteum begins to retrograde within ten or twelve days after its commencement, and afterwards rapidly shrinks and ultimately disappears. It thus happens that, without preg- nancy, the ovaries may naturally present during the whole of the child- bearing period of life the corpora lutea of menstruation, or their vestiges, in various stages of advance or decline. The Graafian follicles in the ovary of middle life are to be found in very various stages of development. 1st. By far the most numerous and the smallest lie in the cortical layer already described. The size of these is remarkably uniform, the largest scarcely passing of an inch. These exist from an early period of foetal life, and are in such numbers that it is estimated with great certainty that the ovaries of a female child at birth do not contain less than 70,000 follicles, each one of which contains an ovum. 2nd. In the deeper stratum of the ovary is found a succession of follicles in very much smaller numbers, and of very various sizes from T^ to ^ or even 2^ of an inch. And 3rd. There are the larger and fewer follicles ad- vancing to and projecting on the surface. The more advanced Graafian follicles appear to have a very consistent wall formed of the ovarian stroma ; but it is doubtful whether the two coverings which have been described as belonging to them deserve to be regarded structurally as distinct envelopes. Two layers of condensed tissue may indeed be seen surrounding the cavity of the