655 THE MEMBRANOUS COCHLEA. When the limbus is viewed from above, the edge is seen to present, not a continuous line, but a succession of tooth-like projections (fig. 470, Cr), which give it a jagged aspect. These projections are continued as flattened eminences a short distance on the upper surface of the limbus, which is, therefore, not smooth, but, at least near the edge, marked in this way with eminences and intervening furrows. Nearer the line of origin of the membrane of Eeissner, however, it becomes more uniform, and here, too, its epithelial covering, which is directly continuous with that of the under surface of Reissner's membrane, is evenly distributed ; whereas at the crest itself the epithelial cells are, in the adult, only found in the furrows : so that the tooth-like promi- nences project between the rows of epithelium into the cochlear canal. Immediately below the overhanging projections, the epithelium again runs together into a uniform single layer which lines the spiral groove, and is continuous externally with the more specialized cells, presently to be described as forming the organ of Gorti. The basilar membrane stretches, as before-mentioned, straight between the osseous lamina and the spiral ligament on the outer wall, and separates the canal of the cochlea from the scala tympani. It increases in breadth from the base to the apex of the cochlea, while the breadth of the osseous spiral lamina diminishes. Thus in the first turn of the cochlea, this membrane forms about half of the breadth of the septum made by it and the osseous lamina ; but towards the apex of the cochlea the proportion between the two parts is gradually changed, until, near the helioctrema, the membranous part is left almost unsup- Fig. 470. h.i. Cr. I. ,—'—, e.r. I.r. h.e. i.r. is^^^^^^m Fig. 470.—Semi-diagrammatic View of part of the Basilar Membrane and Tunnel of Corti of the Rabbit, from above and the side. Much magnified. I, limbus ; Cr, extremity or crest of limbus with tooth-like projections; b b, basilar membrane ; p, perforations for transmission of nerve fibres N, which are represented at the lower part of the figure, but omitted for the sake of clearness in the upper ; i.r, fif- teen of the inner rods of Corti ; h.i, their flattened heads seen from above ; e.r, nine outer rods of Corti ; h.e, their heads, with the phalangeal processes extending outward from them and forming, with the two rows of phalanges, the lamina reticularis, I.r. The fibres of the outer rods are seen to be continued into the striation of the basilar mem- brane, through which the connective tissue fibres and nuclei of the undermost layer are seen. Portions of a few of the basilar processes of the outer hair-cells remain attached to the membrane. VOL. ii. tt tr