THE EAR. 632 a thin semitransparent membrane—membrana tympani (fig. 445, l), which closes the inner end of the external auditory meatus. Imme- diately in front of the ring of bone into which the membrana tympani is inserted, is the inner extremity of the fissure of Glaser, which gives passage to the laxator tympani muscle, and attachment to the processus gracilis of the malleus. Close to the back of this fissure is the opening of a small canal (named by Cruyeilhier the canal of Huguier), through which the chorda tympani nerve usually escapes from the cavity of the tympanum and the skull. Fig. 445. — Right Membrana Tympani as seen from the outer and inner side re- spectively. A, the outer surface ; B, the inner; in the latter the small bones are seen adherent to the membrane and adjacent parts of the temporal bone ; in A, the shaded part indicates the small bones as partially seen through the membrane ; 1, mem- brana tympani ; 2, malleus ; 3, stapes ; 4, incus. The membrana tympani is an ellipsoidal disc, the longer axis of which is directed from behind and above, forwards and downwards, and is about 4| lines in length : the shorter being about 4 lines. It is inserted into the groove already noticed at the end of the meatus externus, and so obliquely that the membrane inclines towards the anterior and lower part of the canal at an angle of about 55°. The handle of the malleus (fig. 445, 2), one of the small bones of the tympanum, descends between the middle and inner layers of the membrana tympani to a little below the centre, where it is firmly fixed; and, as the direction of this pro- cess of the bone is somewhat inwards, the outer surface of the membrane is thereby rendered somewhat conical (see fig. 440), being depressed towards the centre. Although very thin, the membrana tympani is composed of three distinct structures. A prolongation of the skin of the external meatus forms the outer layer ; the mucous membrane lining the cavity of the tympanum furnishes an inner layer; and between these two is the proper substance of the membrane, mainly composed of fibrous tissue. The greater number of the fibres radiate from near the centre at the attachment of the handle of the malleus (fig. 445), but there are also circular fibres which are situated within or more interiorly than the radial, and close to the circumference, and form a dense, almost ligamentous ring. Owing to the presence of the circular fibres, the radial fibres are not straight, but are slightly bowed outwards, so that between the most depressed part and the attached border the membrane is slightly convex outwardly. This is particularly well marked at the upper and anterior part, where the fibres stretch across the mouth of a small notch in the bony ring to which the membrane is attached (notch of Rivinus). The notch is occu- pied by a lax part of the membrane (membrana flaccida, Shrapnell), consisting of loose connective tissue, with vessels and nerves covered