STRUCTURE, 81 proportion of minute pores and lacunge, which contain soft matter scarcely separable in such experiments. Subjoined are the statements of two analyses. The one, by Berzelius, is well known ; the other, which nearly agrees with it, was performed by Middleton, in the laboratory of University College.* Berzelius. Middleton. 33-30 — 33-43 Phosphate of lime . . . . . 51-04 — 51-11 Carbonate of lime ....... 11-30 — 10-31 Fluoride of calcium ....... 2-00 — 1-99 Magnesia, wholly or partially in the state of phosphate 1-16 — 1-67 Soda and chloride of sodium 1-20 — 1-68 In the compact substance of a femur that had been long buried, Aeby found only 16*5 per cent, of animal matter. The phosphate of lime is peculiar, and passes in chemistry under the name of the " bone-earth phosphate." It is a tribasic phosphate. Von Bibra and A. Milne-Edwards f found the proportion of the carbonate of lime to the phosphate greater in spongy than in compact tissue, and less in infantile bones generally than in those of adults. The fluoride of calcium is found in larger quantity in fossil than in recent bones. Structure.—On sawing up a bone, it will be seen that it is in some parts dense and close in texture, appearing like ivory; in others open and reticular: and anatomists accordingly distinguish two forms of osseous tissue, viz., the compact, and the sjwngy or cancellated. On closer examination, however, especially with the aid of a magnifying glass, it will be found that the bony matter is everywhere porous in a greater or less degree, and that the difference between the two varieties of tissue depends on the different amount of solid matter compared with the size and number of the open spaces in each; the cavities being very small in the compact parts of the bone, with much dense matter between them; whilst in the cancellated texture the spaces are large, and the intervening bony partitions thin and slender. There is, accord- ingly, no abrupt limit between the two,—they pass into one another by degrees, the cavities of the compact tissue widening out, and the reti- culations of the cancellated becoming closer as they approach the parts where the transition takes place. In all bones, the part next the surface consists of compact substance, which forms an outer shell or crust, whilst the spongy texture is con- tained within. In a long bone, the large round ends are made up of spongy tissue, with only a thin coating of compact substance; in the hollow shaft, on the other hand, the spongy texture is scanty, and the sides are chiefly formed of compact bone, which increases in thickness from the extremities towards the middle, at which point the girth of the bone is least, and the strain on it greatest. In tabular bones, such as those of the skull, the compact tissue forms two plates, or tables, as they are called, inclosing between them the spongy texture, which in such bones is usually named cliploe. The short bones, like the ends of the long, are spongy throughout, save at their surface, where there is a thin crust of compact substance. In the complex or mixed bones, such as the vertebras, the two substances have the same general relation to each other; but the relative amount of each in different parts, as well as their special arrangement in particular instances, is very various. * Philosophical Magazine, vol. xxv., p. 18. + Ann. des Sc. Nat. 4me Serie, vol. xiii., 1860. VOL. II. G