46 CILIATED EPITHELIUM. clear and colourless. It usually contains one or two nucleoli, distin- guished by their strong dark outline ; and a variable number of more faintly marked granules irregularly scattered. For the most part, the nucleus is persistent, but in some cases it disappears from the cell. CILIATED EPITHELIUM. In this form of epithelium, the particles, which are generally co- lumnar, bear at their free extremities little hair-like processes, which are agitated incessantly during life, and for some time after death, with a lashing or vibrating motion. These minute and delicate moving organs are named cilia. They have now been discovered to exist very extensively throughout the animal kingdom ; and the movements which they produce are subservient to very varied purposes in the animal economy. Distribution and use.—In the human body ciliated epithelium occurs in the following parts, viz.:—1. On the mucous membrane of the air passages and its prolongations. It commences at a little distance within the nostrils, covers the membrane of the nose (except the proper olfactory part) and of the adjoining bony sinuses, and extends up into the nasal duct and lachrymal sac. From the nose it spreads backwards a certain way on the upper surface of the soft palate, and over the upper or nasal region of the pharynx ; thence along the Eustachian tube and lining membrane of the tympanum, of which it covers the greater part. The lower part of the pharynx is covered by scaly epithelium as already mentioned; but the ciliated epithelium begins again in the larynx a little above the glottis, and continues throughout the trachea and the bronchial tubes in the lungs to their smallest ramifications. 2. On the mucous lining and in the glands of the uterus, commencing at the middle of the cervix and extending along the Fallopian tubes, even to the peritoneal surface of the latter at their fimbriated extremities. 3. Lining the vasa effcrentia, coni vasculosi, and first part of the excretory duct of the testicle. 4. To some extent on the parietes of the ventricles of the brain, and throughout the central canal of the spinal cord. 5. In the excretory ducts of certain small racemose glands of various parts (tongue, pharynx, &c). In other mammiferous animals, as far as examined, cilia have been found in nearly the same parts. To see them in motion, a portion of ciliated mucous membrane may be taken from the body of a recently killed quadruped. The piece of membrane is to be folded with its free or ciliated surface outwards, placed on a slip of glass, with a little weak salt water or serum of blood, and covered with thin glass. When it is now viewed with a magnifying power of 200 diameters or upwards, a very obvious agitation will be perceived on the edge of the fold; this appearance is caused by the moving cilia, with which the surface of the membrane is covered. Being set close together, and moving simulta- neously or in quick succession, the cilia, when in brisk action, give rise to the appearance of a bright transparent fringe along the fold of the membrane, agitated by such a rapid and incessant motion, that the single threads which compose it cannot be perceived. The motion here meant, is that of the cilia themselves; but they also set in motion the adjoining fluid, driving it along the ciliated surface, as is indicated by the agitation of any little particles that may accidentally float in it.