STRUCTURE OF THE SMALL INTESTINE. 358 comparing the upper and lower ends of the entire tube, which will be pointed out after it has been described as a whole. Fig. 252.—Diagram of the Abdominal PART OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL (Brinton). c, the cardiac, and p, the pyloric end of the stomach ; d, the duodenum ; «r, i, con- volutions of the small intestine ; cc, caecum, with the vermiform process ; ac, ascending, tc, transverse, and DC, de- scending colon ; sf, sigmoid flexure ; R, rectum ; A, anus. STRUCTURE OF THE SMALL INTESTINE. The small intestine, like the stomach, is composed of four coats, viz., the serous or peri- toneal, muscular, areolar, and mucous. The external or serous coat almost entirely surrounds the in- testinal tube in the whole extent of the jejunum and ileum, leav- ing only a narrow interval be- hind, where it passes off and be- comes continuous with the two layers of the mesentery. The line at which this takes place is named the attached or mesenteric border of the intestine. The duodenum, however, is but partially covered by the peri- toneum. The muscular coat consists of two layers of fibres ; an outer longitudinal, and an inner or circular set. The longitudinal fibres constitute an entire but comparatively thin layer, and are most obvious along the free bor- der of the intestine. The cir- cular layer is thicker and more distinct and its fibres are placed more closely together, clefts how- ever being left here and there between the bundles. The muscular tunic becomes gradually thinner towards the lower part of the small intestine. It is pale in colour, and is com- posed of plain muscular tissue, the cells of which are of considerable length. The progressive contraction of these fibres, commencing in any part of the intestine, and advancing in a downward direction, produces the peculiar vermicular or peristaltic movement by which the contents are forced onwards through the canal. In this move- ment the circular fibres are mainly concerned ; but the longitudinal fibres also aid in it ; and those found along the free border of the intestine may have the effect of straightening or unfolding, as it were, its successive convolutions. The areolar or submucous coat of the small intestine is a tolerably distinct and whitish layer, of a loose texture, which is connected more firmly with the mucous than with the muscular coat, between which two