THE SALIVARY GLANDS. 335 portion of its mucous membrane, as well as that of the free margin of the velum, is covered with scaly, stratified, epithelium ; but quite at its upper portion, near the orifice of the Eustachian tube, the epithelium is columnar and ciliated. In the new-born child the whole posterior sur- face is covered with ciliated epithelium (Klein), but this becomes sub- sequently replaced by squamous ; the epithelium of the gland-ducts, however, retains in many instances its ciliated character. On both surfaces of the velum are found numerous small compound glands, called the palatine glands. They particularly abound on the upper surface, where, they form almost a complete layer under the mucous membrane ; they are also very abundant in the uvula. THE TONSILS. The tonsils (tonsillse, amygdalae) are two prominent bodies, which occupy the recesses formed, one on each side of the fauces, between the anterior and posterior palatine arches and the pillars of the fauces (fig. 235, 0- They are usually about half an inch in length, and a third in width and thickness ; but they vary much in size in different individuals. The outer side of the tonsil is connected with the inner surface of the superior constrictor of the pharynx, and approaches very near to the internal carotid artery. Considered in relation to the surface of the neck, the tonsil corresponds to the angle of the lower jaw, where it may be felt beneath the skin when it is enlarged. Its inner surface, projecting into the fauces between the palatine arches, presents from twelve to fifteen orifices, which give it a perforated appearance. These orifices lead into recesses or crypts in the substance of the tonsil, like those already described (pp. 330-1) as occurring at the back part of the upper surface of the tongue. The tonsils contain a large amount of lymphoid tissue ; indeed this appears to constitute their main substance. These structures receive a very large supply of blood from various arteries, viz., from the tonsillar and palatine branches of the facial artery, and from the descending palatine, the ascending pharyngeal and the dorsalis linguae. From these arteries fine branches and capillaries are distributed abundantly to the lymphoid tissue and follicles and to the papilla? of the mucous membrane which lines the recesses. The veins are numerous,' and enter the tonsillar plexus on its outer side. The nerves come from the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and from the fifth pair. Lymphatics are abundant, and, as in the pharynx, are collected into a deep and superficial layer. THE SALIVARY GLANDS. The saliva, which is poured into the mouth, and there mixed with the food during mastication, is secreted by three pairs of glands, named from their respective situations, parotid, submaxillary, and sublingual. Agreeing in their general physical characters and minute structure, these glands differ in their size, form, and position. THE PAKOTID GLAND. The parotid (fig. 236, ji) is the largest of the three salivary glands. It lies on the side of the face, in front of the ear, and extends deeply into the space behind the ramus of the lower jaw. Its weight varies from five to eight drachms. Its outer surface is convex and lobulated, and is covered by the skin vol. ir. z