245 THE RIGHT AURICLE. ovalis or isthmus Vieussenn, whilst the floor of the fossa, formed by what was previously a yalve, is thin and translucent ; and occasionally a small oblique passage leading into the left auricle is left; between it and the annular border. At the right part of the cavity are seen the orifices of the superior and inferior cavte; the former passing down- Fig. 167.—The Right Auricle and Ven- tricle OPENED AND A PART OP THEIR RlGHT and Anterior Walls removed so as to show THEIR INTERIOR (Allen Thomson). One-hale the Natural Size. Fig. 167. 1, the superior vena cava ; 2, the inferior vena cava at the place where it passes through the dia- j>hragm ; 2', the hepa- tic veins cut short; 3, placed upon the tubercle of Lower within the cavity of the right auricle ; 3', placed in the fossa ovalis, the Eustachian valve is just below ; 3", is placed close to the aperture of the great coronary vein and its valve ; +, +, the auriculo - ventricular groove, a narrow portion of the adjacent walls of the auricle and ventricle having been preserved ; 4, 4, on the right side of the septum, the cavity of the right ventricle ; 4', large anterior columna carnea ; 5, the anterior ; 5', the inferior, and 5", the septal segment of the tricuspid valve; 6, is placed in the interior of the pulmonary artery, a part of the anterior wall of that vessel having been removed, and a narrow portion of it preserved at its commencement where the pulmonary valve is attached. The valve is represented half-closed ; two of the segments are seen foreshortened, the third sideways ; 7, concavity of the aortic arch close to the cord of the ductus arteriosus ; 8, ascending part or sinus of the arch covered at its commencement by the auricular appendix and pulmonary artery ; 9, placed between the innominate and left common carotid arteries ; 10, appendix of the left auricle ; 11, 11, the outside of the left ventricle, the lower figure near the apex. wards and forwards, the latter, the larger, being directed upwards and inwards. Between the two orifices is a slight projection, better marked in certain quadrupeds than in man, which has received the somewhat misleading name of tulercle of Lower (fig. 167, 3). In front of the orifice of the inferior cava, and partly covering it, is a crescentic fold of the lining membrane, the Eustachian valve. This is continuous by its convexity with the margin of the venous orifice, and its anterior cornu is prolonged into the anterior limb of the annulus ovalis. This valve, which is very variable in character in the adult, being