374 THE LARGE INTESTINE. Vessels and Nerves.'—In the large intestine a similar arrangement of capil- lary plexuses and venous radicles obtains, as has been described in the stomach (fig. 269). The arrangement of the lymphatics also presents great similarity : the lymphatics of the mucous membrane have here been longer recognized. Nervous plexuses similar to those of the small intestine are also found in the muscular and submucous coats of the large intestine. SPECIAL CHARACTERS AND CONNECTIONS OP THE DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE LARGE INTESTINE. The CAECUM— The infestmum cmcum, or caput ccecum colt, is that part of the large intestine which is situated below the entrance of the ileum (fig. 270, cc). Its length is about two inches and a half, and its dia- meter nearly the same: it is the widest part of the large intestine. The caecum is situated in the right iliac fossa, immediately be- hind the anterior wall of the ab- domen. It is covered by the peritoneum in front, below, and at the sides : but behind it is usually destitute of peritoneal covering, and is attached by areolar tissue to the fascia cover- ing the right iliacus muscle. In this case the caecum is compara- tively fixed ; but in other in- stances the peritoneum surrounds it almost entirely, and forms a duplicature behind it, called meso-CLEcum. Coming off from the inner and back part of the caecum, at its lower end, is a narrow, round, and tapering portion of the in- testine, named the appendix cceci, or appendix vermiformis (figs. 270, 271). The width of this process is usually about that of a large quill or rather more, and its length varies from three to six inches, these dimensions differing much in different cases. Its general direction is upwards and inwards behind the caecum ; and after describing a few slight co, caecum ; ac, ascending ; re, transverse ; J™ ^ ^ * ^ ^ and do, descending parts of the colon ; sf, ifc 1S retained m its position by a sigmoid flexure ; e, rectum. small fold of peritoneum, which forms its mesentery. The csecal appendix is hollow as far as its extremity: and its cavity communicates with that of the caecum by a small orifice, sometimes guarded by a valvular fold of mucous membrane. So far as is known, this appendix is peculiar to man and certain of the higher apes, and to the wombat; but in some animals, as in the rabbit and hare, the distal part of the caecum, being diminished in Fig. 270. Fig. 270.—Stomach and Intestines.