THE EAR. 660 narrow (as m fig. 474), but when seen from above each cell appears nearly uniform in size throughout (fig. 475). At the lower end the cells seem to end for the most part with a rounded extremity (fig. 475, V) slightly bulged to one side, whilst from the other side a process (p) is prolonged which continues the oblique direction of the cell parallel to the direction of the outer rod, and is fixed below to the basilar mem- brane. (These processes were broken away in the specimen from which fig. 474 was taken.) The nucleus of the cell may be either in the upper end, in the middle, or in the rounded projection at the lower end. It is possible that there may occasionally be two nuclei in one cell, one at the upper and the other at the lower extremity, but such is by no means so frequently the case as is sometimes described. Fig. 474. Pig, 474.—Profile view of Inner and Outer Rod in connection with Three Hair-cells, and part of Lamina Reticularis (from the Guinea-pig). Bichro- mate of potash preparation. Very highly magnified. i.r, inner rod; e.r, outer rod ; hu \, h3, hair-cells of first, second, and third rows respectively. They appear, especially the second and third, narrow in the middle, the thin edge of the riband being seen, but below have become accidentally twisted so that the flattened side is brought into view. A nucleus is visible in but none is seen in h2, k3, probably owing to its being contained in the part of the cell the edge of which is turned towards the observer. The lower ends of all three, together with their basilar processes, have become broken off in the preparation of the specimen ; s, one of the succeeding epi- thelial cells; c, cuticular thread attached to lamina reticularis ; p, phalangeal process of outer rod ; p2, p3, phalanges of lamina reticularis seen in section. In most animals there are three series of outer hair-cells, and a cor- responding number of rings and phalanges in the lamina reticularis, but in man there are four series (fig. 4G9, h), and the lamina is correspond- ingly larger. Outside the hair-bearing cells the columnar cells are much elongated and obliquely disposed (fig. 474, s), but they become more and