501 MINUTE STRUCTURE. Origin of the spinal nerves.—The anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves are attached along the sides of the cord, and oppo- site to the corresponding cornua of the grey matter; the posterior roots in a straight line at the posterior lateral groove, and the anterior roots scattered somewhat irregularly upon the surface (fig. 347, b). The fibres of the anterior roots may be traced into and through the anterior cornua (fig. 350, e, e). In it they diverge in different directions, passing among the large multipolar cells with which some are probably connected. Many fibres pass backwards in the substance of the anterior cornu, where some of them would appear to form connections with fibres proceeding from other parts of the cord, and others to spread obliquely upwards and downwards ; an external group reach the lateral column, and an internal group cross in the anterior white commissure to the anterior cornu of the opposite side. The fibres of the posterior roots, on reaching the posterior cornu, diverge from each other and enter the grey substance, some immediately through the substantia gelatinosa, others after curving through the outer portions of the posterior columns and round the inner side of the caput cornu (fig. 350, 9). Of those which pass through the gelatinous substance, a large number immediately turn upwards and downwards, and blend with the fine plexus of nerve-fibres which constitutes the central portion of the grey matter, reaching, probably, some the anterior cornu, and others by the posterior commissure the opposite side of the corcl. Of the fibres of the posterior roots which enter the grey substance in front of the substantia gelatinosa, some pass forwards at once through the grey substance, while others enter and blend with the posterior vesicular columns of nerve-cells. Another set of fibres slant principally upwards, but some downwards, in the white substance of the posterior columns, and, interlacing with each other, most pro- bably enter the grey matter at different heights. Some are lost to view in the posterior white columns, and it is uncertain whether or not they immediately ascend through these columns to the brain. A narrow grey line extends from the apex of the posterior horn to the posterior lateral furrow, and consists of connective tissue and fine nerve fibres. It was formerly thought to be part of the posterior nerve root. Much discussion lias taken place as to the course of the fibres in the cord, and their ultimate destination. It is easily understood that, by the examination of sections difficult to prepare, limited in extent, liable to undergo changes in the preparation, and giving views confined each to little more than a thin lamina, it is scarcely to be expected that the full history of many tortuous fibres can be accurately ascertained. Thus it remains still undecided whether any of the fibres of the nerve-roots pass up all the way to the brain. Volkmann concluded that none of them reached the brain, arguing from measurements of the size of the cord in different regions, that the cord could not contain in its upper regions all those nerve-fibres which were traceable to it in the lower. Kolliker pointed out the fallacy of this conclusion, in so far as Volkmann had not made proper allowance for the diminished size of the fibres as they ascend in the cord ; but although Volkmann's argument was thereby invalidated, it appears impossible to prove by microscopic observations that fibres of nerve-roots traced into the grey matter, and observed to emerge into the white matter, do not again re-enter the grey and terminate there. There seems little doubt that the radiating prolongations of the cells are in actual continuity with the axial filaments of nerve-fibres, whether jn'oceeding from nerve-roots or from different parts of the cord itself.