BLOOD-VESSELS. 179 single long cell may turn spirally round the tube (Lister) ; in larger vessels, especially those of the arterial system, they are of course more densely laid on. Outside the muscular coat is the areolar or connective tissue coat, containing fibres and connective tissue corpuscles, with longitudinally placed nuclei. In vessels of ¥V of an inch in diameter, or even less, the elastic layers of the inner coat may be discovered (fig. 120, A, 8), in the form Fig. 120. Fig. 120.—A Small Artery A, with a corresponding vein B, treated with Acetic Acid, and magnified 350 Diameters (after Kolliker). o, external coat with elongated nuclei; fi, nuclei of the transverse muscular tissue of the middle coat (when seen endwise, as at the sides of the vessel, their outline is circular) ; 7, nuclei of the epithelium-cells ; 5, elastic layers of the inner coat. generally of homogeneous or fenestrated membrane, more rarely of longitudinal reticulating elastic fibres. The small veins, but two or three removes from the capillaries, differ from arteries of corresponding size, chiefly in the inferior development of their muscular tissue ; the lining cells of the arteries also are very much longer and narrower than those of the veins. These differences, as well as the comparative size of corresponding vessels, are well shown in the accompanying figures. Termination of Arteries.—The only known termination of arteries is in veins, and this takes place by means of capillary vessels as above described, unless in the maternal part of the placenta and in the interior of erectile organs, in which it has been supposed that small arteries open into wide venous cavities without the intervention of capillaries. Moreover, in the spleen, the arterial capillaries do not at once unite into the commencements of the veins, but open into the interstices of the organ, from which the minute veins collect the blood. It is said that in certain parts small arteries may pass into small veins without the intervention of true capillaries (Sucquet, Hoyer). X 2