191 LYMFHATIC GLANDS. fibres in their parietes. Nerve-fibres, both dark-bordered and pale, have been observed in the lymph-hearts of the frog, and also nerve-cells in those of the common tortoise (Waldeyer). Development of lymphatic vessels. —The development of lymph- atic capillaries has been studied by Klein in the serous membranes, both normal and chronically inflamed. He finds that the process is similar to that of the development of blood-vessels as described by him in the chick. A vacuole is formed within one of the cells of the con- nective tissue, and becomes larger and larger, so as to produce a cavity filled with fluid, and with the protoplasm of the cell thinned out to form the wall of the vesicle thus formed. From this protoplasmic wall portions bud inwards into the cavity, eventually becoming de- tached as lymph-corpuscles. Meanwhile the nucleus of the cell has become multiplied, and the resulting nuclei are regularly arranged in the protoplasmic wall, which now exhibits, on treatment with nitrate of silver, the well-known epithelioid marking characteristic of the lymphatic capillaries. To form vessels, these vesicles become connected with one another by means of processes into which their cavities extend.* Kolliker has observed the formation of lymphatics from ramified cells in the tails of young salamander-larvee. He states that the process takes place nearly in the same manner as in the case of sanguiferous capillaries ; the only notable difference being, that whilst the growing lymphatics join the ramified cells, and thus extend themselves, their branches very rarely anastomose or become con- nected by communicating arches. LYMPHATIC GLANDS. Lymphatic glands, named also conglobate glands, and by modern French writers lymphatic ganglions, are small solid bodies placed in the course of the lymphatics and lacteals, through which the contents of these vessels have to pass in their progress towards the thoracic or the right lymphatic duct. These bodies are collected in numbers along the course of the great vessels of the neck, also in the thorax and abdomen, espe- cially in the mesentery and alongside the aorta, vena cava inferior, and iliac vessels. A few, usually of small size, are found on the external parts of the head, and considerable groups are situated in the axilla and groin. Some three or four lie on the popliteal vessels, and usually one is placed a little below the knee, but none farther down. In the arm they are found as low as the elbow joint. Lymphatic vessels may pass through two, three, or even more lym- phatic glands in their course, whilst, on the other hand, there are lymphatics which reach the thoracic duct without encountering auy gland in their way. The size of these bodies is very various, some being not much bigger than a hempseed, and others as large or larger than an almond or a kidney bean. In shape, too, they present differences, but most of them are round or oval. * The cells lining these lymphatic vesicles, which are common in the mesogastrium of the frog and toad in the winter season (owing to the existence of slight chronic inflam- mation, a condition exceedingly prone to further the development of the lymphatic tissues), bear, in the female of those animals, cilia directed inwards towards the cavity of the vesicles. As the development into vessels proceeds, the cilia disappear (Klein). Remak, who first noticed these ciliated vesicles, took them for cysts in the membrane.