232 SECRETING GLANDS. separation of certain substances from the general mass of the blood ; for the coats of the vessels and tissue superjacent to them are not permeated with equal facility by all its constituents ; and in certain cases the elimination of fluid in the animal body is effected without the necessary aid of any more complicated apparatus. Thus, the exhalation of car- bonic acid and watery vapour from the interior of the lungs and air- passages, is probably produced in this simple manner, although the structure of the exhaling membrane is, for other reasons, complex ; and the discharge of fluid into cavities lined by serous membranes, which is known to be preternaturally increased by artificial or morbid obstruction in the veins, may be a case of the same kind. But another element is almost always introduced into the secreting structure, and plays an important part in the secretory process; this is the nucleated cell. A series of these cells, which are usually of a spheroidal, polyhedral, or columnar figure, is spread over the secreting surface, in form of an epithelium, which rests on a simple membrane, named the basement-membrane, or membrana propria. This membrane, itself extravascular, limits and defines the vascular secreting surface ; it supports and connects the cells by one of its surfaces, whilst the other is in contact with the blood-vessels, and it may very possibly, also, minister, in a certain degree, to the process of secretion, by allowing some constituents of the blood to pass through it more readily than others. But the cells are the great agents in selecting and preparing the special ingredients of the secretions. They attract and imbibe into their interior those substances which, already existing in the blood, require merely to be segregated from the common store and concentrated in the secretion, and they, in certain cases, convert the matters which they have selected into new chemical compounds, or lead them to assume organic structure. A cell thus charged with its selected or converted contents yields them up to be poured out with the rest of the secretion —the contained substance escaping from it either by exudation or by bursting and destruction of the cell itself. Cells filled with secreted matter may also be detached, and carried out entire with the fluid part of the secretion ; and, in ail cases, new cells speedily take the place of those which have served their office. The fluid effused from the blood- vessels, no doubt, supplies matter for the nutrition of the secreting structure, besides affording the materials of the secretion, the residue, when there is any, being absorbed. Examples illustrative of the secreting agency of cells, are afforded both by plants and animals. Thus cells are found in the liver of various animals, and especially of crustaceans and mollusks, some of which con- tain a substance resembling coloured biliary matter, and others par- ticles of fat. In the urinary organ of mollusks, cells are seen which inclose little opaque masses of uric acid. In mucous glands, the pro- duct (mucus) remains in the intervals of secretion stored up within the cells (Watney). The secretion of the sebaceous follicles in man often contains detached cells filled with fat; and, according to Goodsir's observation, the ink-bag of the cuttle-fish is lined with an epithelium, the constituent cells of which are charged with pigment similar to that which imparts the dark colour to the inky secretion. This last instance, as well as the production of spermatozoa, is an example of the forma- tion of new products Avithin secreting cells, a process further illustrated in plants, which afford abundant and decided evidence of the production