56 CONNECTIVE TISSUE. Fig. microscope the elastic fibres appear transparent and colourless, with a strong, well-defined, dark outline. They are further remarkable for their tendency to curl up, especially at their broken ends, which gives them a very peculiar aspect; and in many parts of the areolar tissue they divide into branches and join or anastomose with one another, in the same manner as in the pure elastic tissue (a). They differ among themselves very widely in size, some being as fine as the white fila- ments, others many times larger. The elastic fibres lie, for the most part, without order, among the bundles of white filaments ; but here and there we see what appears to be an elastic fibre winding round one of these bundles, and encircling it with several spiral turns. "When acetic acid is applied, the fasciculus swells out between the constricting turns of the winding fibre, and presents a highly characteristic appearance (c). This remarkable disposition of the elastic fibres, which was pointed out by Henle, is not uncommon in certain parts of the areolar tissue ; it may be always seen in that which accompanies the arteries at the base of the brain. It must be observed, however, that the encircling fibre sometimes forms not a continuous spiral, but several separate rings ; moreover, the whole appearance may be explained on the supposition that the bundles in question are naturally invested with a delicate sheath, which, like the elastic tissue, resists acetic acid, but, on the swelling up of the bundle under the operation of that agent, is rent into shreds or segments, mostly annular or spiral, which cause the constrictions. Indeed, some bundles have been shown to possess such a sheath, made up of flattened cells (Ttanvier, Key and Retzius). Moreover, the union of branches of the corpuscles (to be immediately noticed) around a bundle may, in some instances, be the cause of the appearance (Kolliker). A very different view of the struc- ture of areolar tissue from that here stated was taken by Reichert, and adopted by Virchow, Donders, and other distinguished histologists. According to this view the apparent bundles consist of a substance in reality amorphous or homogeneous, and its seeming fibrillation is partly artificial, the result of cleavage, and partly an optical illusion, arising from creasing or folding. In point of fact, however, the bundles readily separate into fibrils after exposure to dilute solutions of chromic acid, or to lime-water, or to baryta-water, by which the uniting matter is dis- solved ; so that there can be no doubt of their truly fibrillar struc- ture. At the same time it is not denied that immature fasciculi may probably occur, in which the fibril- lation is incomplete. Fig. 30.—Cells from Subcutaneous Con- nective Tissue of Young Guinea-pig. Magnified 350 diameters. d, branched corpuscle ; e, flattened cor- puscle ; g, granular corpuscle ; /, fibrillated cell; I, I, leucocytes or migratory cells. Ground-substance and Corpuscles.—The fibrils are, as before said, united into the small bundles and laminas which are visible to the naked eye by means of a variable amount of homogeneous cementing matter or