THE LARGE INTESTINE. 371 large intestine. The character of the intestine gradually changes from its upper to its lower end, so that portions of the two intestines, remote from each other, present certain well-marked differences of structure, which may be here enumerated. Thus, the jejunum is wider, and its coats are thicker ; it is more vascular, and therefore it has a deeper colour ; its valvulse conniventes are long, wide and numerous ; its villi are well developed ; and the patches of Peyer's glands are smaller, less frequent, and sometimes confined to its lower part. The ileum, on the other hand, is narrower; its coats are thinner and paler ; the valvuke conniventes are small, and gradually disappear towards its lower end ; the villi are shorter ; and the groups of Peyer's glands are larger and more numerous. The diameter of the jejunum is about one inch and a half, that of the ileum about one inch and a quarter. A given length of the jejunum weighs more than the same of the ileum. At a point in the lower part of the ileum it is not very uncommon to find a pouch or diverticulum given off from the main tube. The origin of these diverticula is explained by reference to the history of development, from which it appears that they arise from a portion of the ductus vitello-intestinalis, or tube uniting the intestine with the umbilical vesicle, remaining pervious. They are not to be confounded with hernial protrusions of the mucous membrane, which may occur at any point. THE LARGE INTESTINE. The large intestine extends from the termination of the ileum to the anus. It is divided into the caecum (including the vermiform appendix), the colon and the rectum ; and the colon is again subdivided, according to its direction, into four parts, called the ascending, transverse, and descending colon, and the sigmoid flexure. The length of the large intestine is usually about five or six feet ; being about one-fifth of the whole length of the intestinal canal. Its diameter, which greatly exceeds that of the small intestine, varies at different points from two inches and a half to about one inch and a half. It diminishes gradually from its commencement at the caecum to its termination at the anus ; excepting that there is a well-marked dilatation of the rectum just above its lower end. In outward form, the greater part of the large intestine differs remarkably from the small intestine; for, instead of constituting an even cylindrical tube, its surface is thrown into numerous sacculi, marked off from each other by intervening constrictions, and arranged in three longitudinal rows, separated by three strong flat bands of longitudinal muscular fibres. This sacculated structure is not found in the rectum. STRUCTURE OF THE LARGE INTESTINE. The large intestine has four coats, like those of the stomach and small intestine, namely, the serous, muscular, areolar or submucous, and mucous. The serous coat is quite similar to that of the small intestine, except that, along the colon and upper part of the rectum, it is developed into numerous little projections, which enclose a certain amount of fat, and are termed appendices epiploic®. The muscular coat, like that of the other parts of the intestinal