537 INTERNAL PARTS. the Sylvian fissure, where it disappears. It has been traced by different observers to the island of Reil, the optic thalamus (Valentin), and to a nucleus in the substance of the temporo-sphenoiclal lobe, in front of the anterior extremity of the hippocampus. (Rolando, Foville, Luys.) The middle, or grey root (tuber olfactorium), is of pyramidal shape, and consists of grey substance on the surface, prolonged from the adja- cent part of the anterior lobe and anterior perforated space. Within it are some white fibres, which have been said by some to join the inner root, by others to be connected with the corpus striatum. The inner root consists of white fibres, which pass to the inner and posterior part of the anterior lobe, and are believed to be connected with the extremity of the gyrus fornicatus, or to pass over to the opposite hemisphere. When the entire encephalon is viewed from below, the back part of the under surface of the cerebrum is concealed by the cerebellum and the pons Varolii. If, however, these parts be removed, it will be seen that the two hemispheres of the cerebrum are separated behind as they are in front, by the descent of the great longitudinal fissure between them, behind the posterior extremity of the corpus callosum. INTERNAL PARTS OF THE CEREBRUM. The anatomy of the interior of the cerebrum is most conveniently studied by removing successive portions of the hemispheres by hori- zontal sections, beginning from above. The first horizontal section to be made about half an inch above the corpus callosum, displays the internal white matter of each hemisphere, speckled with red spots where its blood-vessels have been divided, and surrounded on all sides by the grey matter which is seen to follow closely the convoluted surface, and to be of nearly equal thickness at all points. This white central mass in each hemisphere was named by Vicq-d'Azyr centrum ovale minus. On separating the remaining por- tions of the two hemispheres from each other, two sulci are seen to exist between the corpus callosum and the gyri immediately in contact with it, viz., the gyrus fornicatus of each side. Another section being made at the level of the corpus callosum, the white substance of that part is seen to be continuous with the internal medullary matter of both hemispheres : and the large white medullary mass thus displayed, surrounded by the border of cortical substance, con- stitutes what is generally described as the centrum ovale of Vieussens. The corpus callosum or great commissure (trabs cerebri) (fig. 377) connects the centres of the two hemispheres. It is a white structure, with a length not quite half that of the brain, and ap- proaches nearer to the front than the back of the hemispheres. It is about an inch in width behind, and somewhat narrower in front. Its thickness is greater at the ends than in the middle, and is greatest behind, where it is nearly half an inch. It is arched from before backwards. Its upper surface is distinctly marked by transverse fur- rows, which indicate the direction of the greater number of its fibres. It is also marked in the middle by a longitudinal line, the rap7ie, which is bounded laterally by two white tracts, placed close to each other, named strice longitudinales, or nerves of Lancisi (fig. 377, 3). On each side, near the margin, are seen other longitudinal lines (stria3 longitudinales laterales) occasioned by a few scanty white fibres.