711 EARLIEST HUMAN OVA. unimpregnated women who died at the time of the invasion of the menstrual flow, Mr. H. Letheby detected an ovum covered by the- granular cells in the first part of the Fallopian tube, on the same side on which a ruptured follicle was found in the ovary (Trans. Roy. Soc. Lond. 1852, p. 7). But the fecundated human ovum has not yet been traced in the course of its descent in the Fallopian tube, nor has it, indeed, been seen in a satisfactory manner previous to the time when it is already imbedded in the uterine decidua. The history of the most authentic cases of the earliest ova observed in this state leads to the conclusion that the fecundated human ovum does not reach the cavity of the uterus before the seventh or eighth day after its escape from the ovary ; and that already by the twelfth or thirteenth day, if not even sooner, it has acquired a chorion covered with villi, and has become imbedded in the decidua. The human ovum, like that of mammals generally, probably under- goes very little enlargement during its descent through the tube and the occurrence of segmentation, and its diameter on arriving in the cavity of the uterus does not probably surpass one hundredth, or at most one eightieth of an inch. A very rapid expansion, however, of the whole ovum no doubt occurs immediately after its entrance into the uterus, in the same manner as observed in a number of mammals, so that within two or three clays, its size may have increased to ten or twelve times its original diameter. Having at first only the zona pellucida for its external envelope (or primitive chorion), and being nearly smooth on the surface, it soon acquires, by a process previously described, its new chorion, on which are formed the permanent villi and by the time when it has become incapsulated, according to Reichert's observations in the recently published very careful descrip- tion of an ovum which was probably of the thirteenth or fourteenth day after impregnation, it has a diameter of nearly one-fourth of an inch, and is beset with villi over a considerable part, but not the whole of its surface (see fig. 517). Several other examples of incapsulated ova of nearly the same period have been observed, as by Von Baer, Velpeau, Wharton Jones, Coste, and Allen Thomson; but in all these, with the exception of one observed by Velpeau, and supposed to be of the tenth clay, or earlier, the whole surface of the ovum was already uniformly covered with short thick set chorionic villi. The ova observed by Velpeau and Wharton Jones were like that described by Eeichert of a period previous to the formation of an embryo, and may be stated as probably of from ten to fourteen days old. (Velpeau, " Ovologie Humaine," Paris, 1833 ; Wharton Jones in " Trans. Roy. Soc. of Lond.," 1837, p. 339 ; Eeichert, " Beschr. einer Fruhzeit. Menschl. Frucht, &c," Berlin, 1873.) Those of Von Baer, Pockels, Coste, and Allen Thomson are of the period immediately following, or from fourteen to eighteen days after impregnation. (Von Baer," Entwickelungs- geschichte," p. 270 ; Pockels in '-Oken's Ms," 1825 ; Coste, " Hist. Gen. et Partic. du Developpement/' 1847 ; Allen Thomson, " Contrib. to the Hist., &c, of the Human Ovum before the Third Week after Conception," in " Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ." No. 140.) Formation of Decidua.—Before the arrival of the ovum in the uterus, the lining membrane of that cavity undoubtedly undergoes a preparatory change, by which the formation of the decidua is com- menced, and this change, in its first stages, or up to the time of the