THE EAR. 628 concha, surrounds the upper and posterior margin of the auricle, and gradually loses itself in the back part of the lobule.* "Within the helix is another curved ridge, the antihelix (3), which, beginning below at the antitragus, sweeps round the hollow of the concha, forming the posterior boundary of that concavity, and is divided superiorly into two diverging ridges. Between the helix and the antihelix is a narrow curved groove, the fossa of the helix (fossa innominata, scaphoidea) (2); and in the fork of the antihelix is a somewhat triangular depression, the fossa of the antihelix (fossa triangularis vel ovalis) (4). Structure.—The pinna consists mainly of yellow fibro-cartilage and integument, with a certain amount of adipose tissue. It has several ligaments and small muscles of minor importance. The shin covering it is thin, closely adherent to the cartilage, and contains sebaceous follicles, which are most abundant in the hollows of the concha and scaphoid fossa. The cartilage (figs. 442, 443) forms a thin plate, presenting all the inequalities already described as apparent on the outer surface of the pinna, and on its cranial surface having prominences the reverse of the concha and the fossa of the helix, while between these is a depression in the situation of the antihelix. The cartilage is not confined to the pinna, but enters likewise into the construction of the outer part of the external auditory canal. When dissected from other structures, it is seen to be attached by fibrous tissue to the rough and prominent margin of the external auditory meatus of the temporal bone. The tubular part is cleft in front from between the tragus and fore part of the helix inwards to the bone, the deficiency being filled with fibrous membrane ; the whole cartilage may be looked upon as an elongated plate, the lower part of which is folded round in front so as to bring it nearly into contact with the upper part. There is no cartilage in the lobule : it contains only fat and tough connective tissue. Behind the prominence of cartilage which forms the antitragus is a deep notch, separating it from the cartilage of the helix, which here forms a tail-like process descending towards the lobule (fig. 443). At the fore part of the pinna, opposite the first bend of the helix, is a small conical projection of the cartilage, called the process of the helix, to which the anterior ligament is attached. Behind this process is a short vertical slit in the helix ; and on the surface of. the tragus is a similar but somewhat longer fissure. A deep fissure passes back between the commencement of the helix and the tube of the ear, and another passing outwards and backwards from the deep end of the longitudinal cleft separates the part forming the tragus from the rest of the tube, so that the tube is continuous with the pinna only by means of a narrow isthmus. One or two other irregular gaps or fissures partially divide the cartilaginous tube transversely, and the whole of these deficiencies are termed fissures of Santorini. The sub- stance of the cartilage is very pliable, and is covered by a firm fibrous perichondrium. Of the ligaments of the pinna, the most important are two, which * A slight pointed projection which is occasionally observed in the human subject at the margin of the helix (at a place indicated by the asterisk in fig. 441) is of interest as representing the much more distinct pointed extremity met with in the expanded ears of quadrupeds (Darwin, ''The Descent of Man," 2nd edition, p. 15). The point in question happens to be distinctly seen in the cartilage represented in fig. 442.