GANGLION-CELLS. 139 Fig. coils, and Beale thinks the coils are more numerous in older cells—for in some cases the smaller fibre (answering to the spiral one elsewhere) is not coiled ; the cells in such cases he considers to be young or recently formed. Beale's observations were chiefly made on the ganglia of frogs, the cells of which have very commonly a pyriform shape like the one represented in the figure. In mammalia they are more spheroidal, and the observation of their connection with fibres is more difficult; but from examinations in mammalia, he was led to infer that the relation of the cells and fibres is essentially the same as in frogs. Two subsequent writers, Julius Arnold, and L. G. Courvoisier, confirmed the original observation of Beale in almost every point; but whilst the last-named observer described the two fibres as connected with the substance of the cell and at its surface only—or, at least, could not obtain satisfactory evidence of then- passing into the interior—Arnold, and (after him) Courvoisier describe (as had previously been done by Harless and others) the straight fibre as traceable into the nucleus, with which Arnold thinks its medullary sheath, here altogether inconsider- able, is continuous, whilst the axial part ends in the nucleolus, which he regards as the knobbed end of the axis-cylinder (fig. 95). They both describe a network of ex- quisitely fine fibrils, which, springing from the nucleolus as a centre, traverses the substance of the cell and comes to the surface between the cell-body and its sheath, and finally unites into the spiral fibre. According to this account, the nucleolus is, as it were, the end of the straight fibre and beginning of the spiral one, or vice versa ; or, at least the point of organic connection between them in the cell. Courvoisier describes both fibres as ac- quiring a medullary sheath, the straight one first. He has found the above de- scribed structure in the ganglia of fish, birds, and mammals; but whilst in the frog the cell has never, or scarcely ever, more than one straight and very rarely more than one spiral fibre, he finds that in other vertebrates a cell may give off such twin fibres from two or more parts of its circumference. With regard to the alleged connection of the fibres with the nucleus and nu- cleolus of the cell, we would remark that no such connection is observable in other nerve-cells,—those of the spinal cord for instance. And recent observers have for the most part failed to cor- roborate the statements of Arnold and Courvoisier. On the other hand, it is probable that the primitive fibrils of the nerves are continuous with one another through the body of the cell. Besides such cells as have now been described, others are not unfrequently met with in which there is a different arrangement. In the spinal ganglia of the skate, torpedo, dogfish, &c, as first pointed out by R. Wagner, two fibres are connected with each ganglion-cell at opposite sides—one directed centrally to- wards the root of the nerve, and the other outwardly towards its branches (fig. 90). Fig. 96. —Bipolar Ganglion-Cell from Spinal Ganglion op Pike. 350 Diame- ters. (Kolliker.) a, Capsule of cell continuous with, h, sheath of nerve, c, medullary sheath. d, axis-cylinder, e, body of cell.