685 DISCOVERY OF THE BLASTODERMIC ELEMENTS. various parts indifferently or equally throughout its whole extent, but in the following divisions, viz., First, by a central mesial or axial part, out of which proceed the rudiments of the protovertebral segments of the body ; and, Second, by two lateral parts which undergo subdivision into an upper and lower lamina, the first of these subdivisions contain- ing the rudiments mainly of volunto-motory parts, the walls of the body, or somatopleural elements ; and the second forming the involunto- motory parts, as in the walls of the alimentary canal, heart, &c, or splartchna-pleural elements : the space formed by the separation of these two sets of parts is the visceral or pleuro-peritoneal cavity. From the foregoing enumeration of the several parts of the embryo which are traceable "in their origin to one or other of the layers of the blastoderm, it must not be inferred that these initial elements remain each distinct or separate from the rest, while undergoing the formative changes of conversion. Some of them, doubtless, do maintain their independence in a remarkable degree, as is the case with most of the parts derived from the hypoblast, and some of those from the epiblast; but in the case of parts proceeding from the meso- blast, this independence is in a great measure lost; and notwith- standing the original separation, we see, especially^ in the vascular and nervous systems and in the connective tissue, that in the course of their farther development, there is a great amount of spreading of one into the other sets of the blastodermic elements. Discovery of the Blastodermic Elements.—We owe to C. F. Wolff, as de- scribed in Lis Theoria Generationis, published in 1759, the first proof derived from observation of the actual new formation of, the organs of the embryo (epi- genesis) from the simple granular (cellular) elements of the yolk, and to a later work of the same author (On the Formation of the Intestine, which originally appeared in 1769, and was republished in German by J. F. Meckel in 1812) the first suggestion of the laminar constitution of the germ. The full discovery, how- ever, of the three layers of the blastoderm, and especially their relation to the development of the organs and systems of the embryo, was, under the influence of Doellinger's teaching at Wiirzburg, the work of Pander, and was first published in his inaugural dissertation at that University in 1817. The segmentation of the yolk, noticed by Swammerdam and Spallanzani, was first described in batrachia by Prevost and Dumas in 1823, in a Memoir which was followed by an important series of contributions by the same authors to the history of the development of reptiles, birds, and mammals. The discovery of the germinal vesicle of the bird's egg by Purkinje in 1825 led the way to more minute obser- vation of the constitution of the germinal part of the ovum. But the founda- tion of embryology as a modern science was most surely laid by C. E. von Baer of Konigsberg (originally the associate of Pander and pupil of Doellinger), who discovered the ovum of mammals in 1827, and in his work entitled " Die Entwickelungsgeschichte der Thiere, Beobachtungen und Eeflexionen," 1829— 1837, gave the fullest, the most accurate, and the most philosophical account of the development of animals which has ever appeared. The contemporaneous researches of H. Rathke, also the pupil of Doellinger along with Pander and Von Baer, contributed greatly to the advance of embryological knowledge. The investigations of Schwann " On the conformity in the structure and growth of plants and animals," published in 1839, threw new light upon the histological composition of the ovum and blastoderm and their relation to the phenomena of development (see'^ General Anatomy, p. 6 et seq.) ; and in the years contem- poraneous with Von Baer's researches, and following their publication, many important contributions appeared which greatly extended the scientific knowledge of the subject; among the authors of which may be mentioned here, as the most prominent, the names of Valentin, Rusconi, R. Wagner, Reicheit,