FOLDING OF THE PERITONEUM. 770 than that which would make them directly enclose the colon. On the other hand, the further elongation of the omental sac and the whole disposition of the peritoneum, with respect to the colon, must be regarded as having taken place after the assumption by the great intes- tine of its permanent position. Fig. 579.—Sketch of the Human Embryo op the Tenth "Week, show- ing the Coil of Intestine in the Umbilical Cord. (A. T.) The amnion and villous chorion have "been opened and the embryo drawn aside from them ; v, the umbilical vesicle or yolk-sac placed between the amnion and choiion, and connected with the coil of intestine, i', by a small or almost linear tube ; the figure at the side represents the first part of the umbilical cord magnified; i, coil of intestine; v i, vitello-intestinal duct, alongside of which are seen omphalo-mesenteric blood-ves- sels. Fig. 579. The occurrence of umbilical hernia in its various degrees may be referred to the persistence of one or other of the foetal # conditions in which a greater or less portion of the intestinal canal is contained in the umbilical cord; and it has been shown that the most common form of abnormal diverticula from the small intestine is connected with the original opening of the ductus vitello-intestinalis into the ileum. DEVELOPMENT OP THE LIVER, PANCREAS, AND SPLEEN. The Liver.—The liver is one of the earliest formed abdominal organs. It consists at first, according to most observers, of two solid masses in connection with the lower surface of the duodenal portion of the alimentary canal. Schenk, however (Lehrbuch, p. 93), states that the blastemic mass of the liver is single. A hollow cavity soon appears within the mass, which is the commencement of the main excretory duct (ductus choledochus communis). This cavity is lined by hypo- plastic epithelium; and, according to the commonly received view, is produced as a diverticulum of the hypoblast of the intestine. Through the mass, but at first unconnected with its substance, there passes the main stem of the veins from the umbilical vesicle and allantois (um- bilical vein or meatus venosus). In the rudimentary mass composing the liver there are soon observed a number of solid cylinders of blastemic cells which branch out from the hypoblast into the mesoblast, and as these come to unite together by their ends, they at last form a network of solid cords with which .the hypoblasts diverticula are connected. In the meantime blood- vessels are developed in the mesoblast lying between the cylinders, wmich vessels become united as branches with the umbilical vein pass- ing through the liver. Hollow processes also extend themselves from the hypoblasts diverticula and stretch into the solid cylinders of the hepatic parenchyma ; but the greater part of this remains solid for a time, consisting of reticulated strings of cells between which there is nothing but blood-vessels. According to some embryologists, as Schenk, the hypoblast forms no