STRUCTURE OF SMALLER ARTERIES. 177 Fig. 118. of the brain and spinal cord. On the other hand, it has wide meshes and comparatively few vessels in the ligaments, tendons, and other allied textures. In infants and young persons, the tissues are more vascular than in after-life ; growing parts, too, are more abundantly supplied with vessels than those which are stationary. The figure of the capillary network is not the same in all textures. In many cases the shape of the meshes seems accommodated to the arrangement of the elements of the tissue in which they lie. Thus in muscle, nerve, and tendon, the meshes are long and comparatively narrow, and run conformably with the fibres and fasciculi of these textures (fig. 116). In other parts the meshes are rounded or poly- gonal, with no one dimension greatly predominating (fig. 117). In the smaller-sized papillae of the skin and mucous membranes, the vessels of the network are often drawn out into prominent loops. Structure of the Smaller-sized Vessels and Capillaries.—The smallest arteries and veins pass by gradual transition into the capil- lary vessels, and their finest offsets approach very near to these in struc- ture ; they may therefore be con- veniently considered together. The wall of the capillaries proper is formed entirely of a simple epithelioid layer, composed of flat- tened lanceolate cells joined edge to edge, and continuous with the cor- responding layer which lines the arteries and veins. The outlines of the cells or their lines of junction one with another may be made ap- parent by nitrate of silver ; after which the nuclei may be brought into view by logwood or carmine (fig. 118). Commonly there are not more than two or three such cells in the cross section of a capillary, but there may be four or five. At the points of junction of the capil- laries the cells are much broader and not spindle-shaped, but radiate, with three or four pointed branches fitting in between the cells of the three or four adjoining vessels which meet at the spot (fig. 118 c). Fig. 118. — Capillary Vessels prom Bladder op Cat magnified (after Ckrzonszczewsky.) The outlines of the cells are stained by nitrate of silver. A protrusion of processes from the capillary wall has been observed, not only in the progress of development, in the manner to be afterwards detailed, but also in the fully-developed capillaries of the frog's hyaloid membrane (Strieker) : for this and other reasons the cells which compose these vessels are regarded as of a protoplasmic nature. Branched cells of the surrounding connective tissue are sometimes found con- nected more or less intimately with those forming the capillary wall; this is more especially the case in parts which are pervaded by a supporting network of retiform connective tissue, such as the substance of the lymphatic glands, the solitary and agminated intestinal glands and adjacent mucous membrane, where the small vessels and capillaries may even obtain a continuous covering- vol. n. N