740 DEVELOPMENT OF THE HEAD. in the course of development, clefts which penetrate the wall of the pharynx ; these clefts, or so-called branchial apertures, running com- pletely through the wall of the pharynx and the external wall of the tody of the embryo (see figs. 537 and 538). The auditory pit, or primary depression from the epiblastic surface which forms the rudiment of the labyrinth of the ear, is situated imme- diately above the upper or proximal end of the two first postoral plates, and consequently on a level with the first postoral cleft. And this proximity of position is connected with the intimate relation in which two sets of parts stand to each other : for the part called the first branchial cleft is afterwards converted into the external and middle passages of the ear, (meatus, tympanum, and Eustachian canal), the membrana tympani being at a later period thrown across the passage. It forms thus the tympano-eustachian cleft or canal. The tympanic bone is of membranous origin and is formed round the first cleft. The external auricle is of integumental origin, and is formed in the second postoral bar posteriorly and externally to the aperture of the first cleft. The second postoral cleft is the first true water passage, or the first of those which serves as a gill aperture in branchiate vertebrates, and which may in the lower classes be increased to a greater number. Although the description of some of the changes which the several pharyngeal plates or branchial arches undergo in the further process of development, belongs to a different part of the subject, yet it may be useful to describe shortly the more important of them in this place. In the first or mandibular arch a strong cartilaginous bar is formed known as the cartilage of Meckel, on the exterior of which, but not in its own substance, throughout a considerable part of its distal length, the lower jaw-bone is afterwards developed. The proximal part next the cranium, which comes later to be connected with the auditory capsule, becomes in mammalia the malleus, in birds and reptiles chiefly the os quadratum. (See figures in connection with development of the ear.) In the second or hyoid arch are developed the styloid process, the stylo-hyoid ligament, the lesser or upper cornua of the hyoid bone, the series of parts which connect them with the basis of the skull, being united like the first to the auditory capsule: but the proximal part of this arch would appear also to have the incus formed in it, and to be connected with the stapes and stapedius muscle. The third arch is the thyro-hyoid, and is related to the formation of the lower or great cornua, and the body of the hyoid bone. It corre- sponds with the first true branchial arch of amphibia and fishes, in which animals the clefts and bars behind this arch become more numerous than in the higher vertebrata. The fourth arch, which has no special name, but might be called sub- hyoid or cervical, does not seem to form the basis of any particular organ, but is situated exactly at that part of the body which becomes elongated as the neck,—a part which may be considered as absent in the foetus, and the formation of which by a simple process of elongation gives rise to some peculiar features in the anatomy of the parts composing it. Relations of Cranial Nerves.—The rudiments of four cranial nerves, besides the optic and auditory afterwards to be referred to, are found at a very early period in connection with the plates now under consideration, and the following is the relation in which, according to Parker, they stand to these plates in all vertebrate animals. These nerves are the