CHEMICAL COMPOSITION. 29 was mainly seated in the pale corpuscles,* which abound in the washed clot and the buffy coat, and are present in the serum ; and that their efficacy depended on their organisation as elementary cells. In harmony with this latter view, he found on trial that the organised tissues, such as muscle, skin, and spinal marrow, possessed the same power, though in a less degree than the pale corpuscles, in which, as primary cells, the metabolic power is more energetic. The remarkable phenomenon described by Buchanan did not obtain the consideration it deserved, and the coagulation of hydrocele- fluid, under the conditions stated, was commonly ascribed to some catalytic action of the substance added, which induced liquid fibrin present in the fluid to solidify. In 1861, however, A. Schmidt, or Dorpat, apparently unaware of Buchanan's observations, fell upon facts of the same kind, and pursuing the investigation by an elaborate series of experiments, not only with hydrocele-fluid, but with peri- cardial, peritoneal, and other serous fluids and effusions, which give a like result, has satisfactorily shown that fibrin has no existence in a liquid state, but that when it appears as a coagulum in a fluid, it is actually produced then and there by the union of two constituents present in solution, and forthwith shed out as a solid matter. One of these constituents which contributes in largest measure to the product, he names fibrinogenous substance, the other fibrinoplastic substance. In the coagulation of hydrocele-fluid, the former, or fibrinogen, is already there, while the fibrinoplastin is supplied from the blood. It is not that the latter converts albumin into fibrin, for, after a certain amount of fibrin has been coagulated from the serous fluid, no further addition will generate more, although abundance of albumin remains; and again, a given quantity of fibrinoplastin will not coagulate with equal rapidity and intensity any amount of fluid containing fibrinogen. In short, the fibrinoplastic substance seems to operate not by catalysis, but by combining with the other necessary ingredient. Now Schmidt has shown that the fibrinoplastic matter presents all the chemical characters of paraglobulin, and is, in fact, nothing else- than that substance. This paraglobulin is not restricted to the red corpuscles ; it is found in the serum after separation of the clot, and doubtless exists also in the pale corpuscles. Nor is it confined to the blood. From chyle and lymph, and from various organs and tissues of the body, a substance may be obtained having the same reactions and the same fibrino-plastic power. Fibrinogen may be obtained from hydro- cele-fluid in the same manner as paraglobulin from blood-serum {vide infra); it very closely resembles paraglobulin in its chemical relations, only it is less soluble in acids and alkalies, and less energetic in all its re-actions. Of course, it exists in blood-plasma, and in the process of coagulation of the blood combines with paraglobulin to form the fibrin of the clot.f * This idea or one similar, has been recently revived by Mantegazza, who conceives the fibrin to be derived from the pale corpuscles, or at least that their presence is necessary for coagulation to take place. Compare also Burdon Sanderson, Handbook for the Physio- logical Laboratory, p. 173. f Schmidt, Ales., in Reichert & Du Bois Reymond's Archiv fur Anat. u. Physiol. 1861 and 1862. For a lucid account of this subject, founded on a confirmatory repeti- tion of Buchanan's and of Schmidt's fundamental experiments, see an article on '' the Coagulation of the Blood," [by Dr. Michael Foster], in the Natural. History Review for 1864, p. 157.