MUSCULAR TISSUE. 120 situate near the centre ; occasionally two nuclei are seen. The cell substance is faintly striated longitudinally as well as transversely : it presents no indication of an investing membrane or sarcolemma. The muscular fibres of the heart freely divide and anastomose (fig. 79), the junctions with neighbouring fibres being effected by the medium of the cell-offsets above noticed. DEVELOPMENT AND GROWTH OF MUSCLE. Development.—The elements of the plain or unstriped muscular tissue are derived from embryonic nucleated cells, consisting of granu- lar protoplasmic substance, as usual. These become lengthened out, pointed at the ends, and flattened, with elongation of the nucleus, whilst their substance becomes more uniform in aspect, and acquires its permanent condition and characteristic properties. The striated muscular tissue is also developed in the embryo from, cells. Schwann considered each fibre to be formed by the linear coa- lescence of several cells ; recent researches, however, for the most part, tend to establish the view, originally promulgated by Remak, that the fibres are produced by the elongation of single cells, with differentiation of their contents and multiplication of their nuclei. "Wilson Fox, who has lately investigated the process in the tadpole, the chick, and the mammalian embryo, at very early stages, finds that the first elements of the muscular fibres are rounded or oval cells, with a clear nucleus and granular contents, agreeing in all respects with the cells of which the parts of the embryo body originally consist. To form a muscular fibre, a cell elongates, often acquiring pointed ends ; the nucleus generally divides into two, and by further division these are multiplied; a fine membrane, at first absent or invisible, is soon discovered, bounding the cell and enclosing its contents. In the meantime the substance becomes striated longitudinally at one part, and more transparent, the granules disappearing. The striation, which is the first indication of the proper muscular substance, extends throughout the length of the elongated cell, but at first affects only a small part of its breadth, and the remaining space is occupied by unchanged granular matter and the nucleus or nuclei which lie on one side. In due time, however, this conversion into the proper muscular substance, further shown by the appearance of cross striae, proceeds through the whole thickness of the cell, or fibre as it may now be called ; the enclosing cell-membrane becomes the sarcolemma, and the nuclei, with a small residue of the granular protoplasm still adhering to them, remain as the muscle corpuscles.* Growth.—The muscular fibres of the growing foetus, after having acquired their characteristic form and structure, continue to increase in size till the time of birth, and thenceforward up to adult age. In a full-grown foetus most of them measure twice, and some of them three or four times their size at the middle of foetal life ; and in the adult they are about five times as large as at birth. This increase in bulk of the individual fibres would, of course, so far account for the concomitant enlargement of the entire muscles. But there would seem to be also a multiplication of the fibres ; and Budge believes he has * Phil. Trans. 1866.