416 THE SUPRARENAL CAPSULES. Fig. 302. In the thinner parts of the adult organ there is no medullary part, and the layer of connective tissue referred to is found separating the deep sur- faces of two opposed portions of the cortical part ; but in the young state the distinction of cortical and medullary probably extends throughout the whole. The medullary part is traversed in the centre by venous trunks, which receive the whole of the blood which has passed through the organ. The stroma is delicate and arranged in a reticular manner ; in its meshes are en- closed groups of cells, which differ from those of the cortex in being coarsely granular, destitute of oil-globules, and some of them Fig. 302.—Cells and Cell-Groups from the outermost layer op the cortical Substance of the Suprarenal Body. Highly magnified (Eberth). branched. Moreover they become stained of an intense yellow or brown by solutions of yellow chromate of potash, whereas the cortical cells are but slightly tinged by that re-agent. The bundles of nerves which pass through the cortical sub- stance run between it and the medullary substance, and then form a copious interlacement which extends through the whole of the medul- lary stroma. Indeed, some observers (Leydig and Luschka) have regarded the cells of the medullary substance as nerve-cells; and Luschka states that he has found them connected with nerve-fibres; but this still requires confirmation. Moers, whilst denying that the cells generally of the medullary parenchyma are nervous, nevertheless describes ganglia on the nerves where their bundles begin to break up. The medullary substance receives its blood by the continuation inwards of the capillary network of the cortex, the blood from which is collected by venous radicles which open into the stems in the centre of the organ and these emerge at the hilus. Vessels.—The suprarenal bodies receive arteries from three sources, viz., from the aorta, the phrenic, and the renal arteries. The distribution of their capillary vessels has already been mentioned. The veins, which pass out from the centre, are usually united into one for each organ. The right vein enters the vena cava inferior immediately, whilst the left, after a longer course, terminates in the left renal vein. The lymphatics are imperfectly known. Kolliker has seen a few small trunks upon the surface ; and Luschka has, in addition, observed others emerging from the interior in company with the vein. Nerves.—The nerves are exceedingly numerous. They are derived from the solar plexus of the sympathetic, and from the renal plexuses. According to Bergmann, some filaments come from the phrenic and pneumogastric nerves. They are made up mainly of dark-bordered white fibres, of different sizes, and they have many small ganglia upon them before entering the organ. The nerves are especially numerous in the lower half, and inner border. Accessory suprarenal capsules are occasionally met with, attached by connec- tive tissue to the main bodies ; and varying from a small size up to that of a pea. According to Duckworth they possess no medullary part. On the subject of the suprarenal capsules may be consulted,—Bergmann, Dissertation, Gottingen, 1839 ; Ecker, Der feinere Bau der Nebennieren, Braun- schweig, 1846 ; Simon on the Thymus Gland ; Frey, article " Suprarenal Capsules,"