818 DEVELOPMENT OF THE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS. each primordial ovum is closely embraced. A uniform layer of such ova of nearly equal size is especially to be found towards the surface ; but in the two later months of foetal life some of the ova and follicles advance to a farther stage of development, and increase in size, and this advance is invariably accompanied by a change of position of these ova to a deeper stratum of the ovary. The most advanced of the ova, therefore, are situated deepest in this the earlier stages of the ovarian development. It is different, however, when some years after birth, and still more towards the age of puberty, a few of the Graafian follicles expand to a great extent, and ultimately when mature reach the diameter of about a quarter of an inch, for then the expanding Graafian follicle gradually approaches the surface of the ovary, or perhaps rather, during the rapid expansion of the follicle, the ovarian stroma gives way by absorption between the follicle and the surface. As the Graafian follicle expands with the slightly enlarging ovum, the thickness of the layers of condensed connective tissue or stroma round the ovum increases, and thus there are gradually formed the layers which have been described as the follicular walls, while blood-vessels penetrate into them so as to form the vascular network of the covering. Within the follicle the granular cells multiply so as to form several layers lining the whole follicle and closely covering the ovum. As yet there is no space between the ovum and wall of the follicle except that which is occupied by the granular cells, and for a long time the follicle is not larger than to enable it to enclose the ovum; but in the more advanced stages a proportionally great enlargement of the follicle takes place, in conse- quence of the separation of two layers of the granular cells, so as to form a space in which fluid accumulates, and thus one or more layers of cells are left lining the expanded follicle and constituting its tunica granulosa, while those covering the ovum, which is now thrown to one side of the follicle, form the investment known as the discus proligerus, which appears as *a reflected portion of the tunica granulosa (see figs. 335 and 336, pp. 473 and 475). As connected with the difference in the seat and mode of development of the -essential parts of the male and female productive organs, the important question presents itself of the possibility or reality of the simultaneous coexistence in any cases of malformation of ovaries and testes on one or both sides of the body in the same individual. From what has been stated above, the possibility of such coexistence may perhaps be theoretically admitted. On this subject the reader may consult an interesting account by Dr. C. L. Heppner of St. Petersburg (Reichert's and Dubois Reymond's Archiv for 1870, p. 679), of a hermaphroditic child which lived two months after birth, in which, along with a considerable amount of the better known conditions of approximation or mingling of the sexual characters, it appeared that two organs coexisted, in one of which, agreeing in all respects with the ovary, primordial ova in Graafian follicles were observed, and in another of a distinctly rounded form and compact structure, and so far corresponding to the testicle and unlike any of the other known vestigial organs, branched and coiled tubes, filled with cells in a manner exactly the same as those of the seminal canals, were ascertained by microscopic observation to exist. The parovarium (epididymis or coni vasculosi) also existed. The genital passages.—The existence of two sets of tubes between the internal productive organs and the external parts has already been adverted to as a feature common to both sexes. The female organs con- trast with the male in the large development of one of these tubes, viz.,