FAT. 59 The physical properties of this texture have been sufficiently indicated in the foregoing description ; also its want of sensibility. The vital contractility ascribed to certain portions of it is most probably due to the presence of muscular tissue. Regeneration.—With the exception of the epithelium, no tissue is so readily regenerated as the areolar. It is formed in the healing of wounds and in the adhesion of inflamed surfaces. It is produced also in many morbid growths. ADIPOSE TISSUE. The human body in the healthy state contains a considerable amount of fatty matter of different kinds. Fat, as has been already stated, is found in the blood and chyle, and in the lymph, but much more sparingly. It exists, too, in several of the secretions, in some consti- tuting the chief ingredient ; and in one or other of its modifications it enters into the composition of certain solid textures. But by far the greater part of the fat of the body is inclosed in small cells or vesicles, which, together with their contained matter, constitute the adipose tissue. Distribution.—This tissue is not confined to any one region or organ, but exists very generally throughout the body, accompanying the still more widely distributed areolar tissue in most though not in all parts in which the latter is found. Still its dis- tribution is not uniform, and there are certain situations in which it is collected more abundantly. It forms a consider- able layer underneath the skin, and, together with the subcutaneous areolar tissue in which it is lodged, constitutes in this situation what has been called the panniculus adiposus. It is collected in large quantity round certain internal parts, especially the kidneys. It is seen filling up the furrows on the surface of the heart, and imbedding the vessels of that organ underneath its serous covering; and in various other situa- tions it is deposited beneath the serous membranes, or is collected between their folds, as in the mesentery and omentum, at first generally gathering along the course of the blood-vessels and at length accumulating very copiously. Collections of fat are also common round the joints, lying on the outer surface of the synovial membrane, and filling up inequalities ; in many cases lodged, like the fat of the omentum, in folds of the membrane,which project into the articular cavity. Lastly, the fat exists in large quantity in the marrow of bones. On the other hand, there are some parts in which fat is never found Fig. 33. Fig. 33.—Loose Areolar Tissue with Fat-Cells ; of Man. (K61- liker.)