LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 183 tion of new vessels in its interstices, and this is effected by similarly metamor- phosed cells, arising in the areolae and joining- at various points with the surrounding vessels, and also simply by pointed offshoots from the existing capillaries stretching across the intervals and meeting from opposite sides, so as when enlarged to form new connecting arches. The blood-vessels may be said to increase in size and capacity in proportion to the demands made on their service. Thus, as the uterus enlarges in pregnancy, its vessels become enlarged, and when the main artery of a limb is tied, or otherwise permanently obstructed, collateral branches, originally small and insig- nificant, augment greatly in size, to afford passage to the increased share of blood which they are required to transmit, and by this admirable adaptation of them to the exigency, the circulation is restored. In such cases, an increase takes place in length, as well as in diameter, and accordingly the vessels very commonly become tortuous. LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. Under this head we include not only the vessels specially called lymphatics or absorbents, together with the glands belonging to them, but also those named lacteal or chyliferous, which form part of the same system, and differ in no respect from the former, save that they not only carry lymph like the rest, but are also employed to take up the chyle from the intestines during the process of digestion and convey it into the blood. An introductory outline of the lymphatic system has already been given at page 37. A system of lymphatic vessels is superadded to the sanguiferous in all classes of vertebrated animals, but such is not the case in the inver- tebrata; in many of these, the sanguiferous vessels convey a colourless or nearly colourless blood, but no additional class of vessels is provided for conveying lymph or chyle, at least none such has hitherto been detected. Distribution.—In man and those animals in which they are present, the lymphatic vessels are found in nearly all the textures and organs which receive blood ; the exceptions are few, and with the progress of discovery may yet possibly disappear. It is, however, with the con- nective tissue of the several textures and organs that the lymphatics are most intimately associated ; indeed, as we shall immediately have occasion to notice, these vessels may be said to take origin in spaces in that tissue. The larger lymphatic trunks usually accompany the deeply-seated blood-vessels ; they convey the lymph from the plexuses or sinuses of origin towards the thoracic duct. The principal lymph- atic vessels of a part exceed the veins in number but fall short of them in size; they also anastomose or intercommunicate much more fre- quently than the veins alongside of which they run. It not unfrequently happens that a lymphatic vessel may ensheath an artery or vein either partially or wholly. In the latter case the lymph- atic is termed " perivascular." Origin.—Two modes of origin of lymphatic vessels are described, viz., the plexiform and the lacunar. Plexiform. In this mode of origin, which is by far the most general, and is met with in its most typical form on the surface of aponeurotic structures such as the central tendon of the diaphragm (fig. 124), the vessels begin in form of irregular networks or plexuses which are at various points in connection with the cell-spaces of the connective