209 THE THYMUS GLAND. According- to the description given by Astley Cooper the thymus presents a con- tinuous anfractuous cavity, the extensions of which pass into the lobules : it is pro- babel, however, that the cavity described was produced artificially, the lymphoid tissue towards the centre of each lobule being rather looser than in the outer parts. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the thymus are derived from various sources, viz., from the internal mammary, the inferior and superior thyroid, the subclavian and carotid arteries. Their branches penetrate to |the centre of the lobules, whence they radiate outwards, terminating in capillary vessels, which form a network within each follicle (fig. 200), and pass at its exterior into the veins. These pursue a different course from the arteries; they, for the most part, open into the left innominate vein.* The lymphatics are large. According to the observations of His on the calf, the larger blood-vessels passing to the centre are each accompanied by two or more lym- phatic trunks. These arise from an inter- lobular plexus, which again is in connection with vessels which surround and enclose the individual follicles (as in the intes- tinal follicles). The nerves are very minute. Haller thought that they were partly derived from the phrenic nerves, but, according to Cooper, no filaments from these nerves go into the gland, although they reach the investing capsule, as does also a branch from the descendens noni. Small filaments, derived from the pneumo-gastric and sympathetic nerves, descend, on the thyroid body, to the upper part of the thymus. Sympathetic nerves also reach the gland along its various arteries. Development and Growth.—The early development of the thymus has been care- fully studied by Simon, whose researches were chiefly conducted in the embryos of swine and oxen. In embryos about half an inch in length, it may be distinguished with the aid of the microscope ; and in those of one and a half inch, with a simple lens. When first distinguishable, it appears to consist of a simple closed tube, lying along the carotid vessels (most likely the tube so described is a collection of embryonic cells enclosed in a membranous capsule). It has no connection with the respiratory mucous membrane, as was supposed by Arnold; and so soon as discoverable, it is found to be perfectly distinct from the thyroid body. At intervals along the sides of this tube or capsule, small pro- jections bud out, and these go on subsequently branching out into groups of two or four,—the formation of the permanent follicles being merely the last repeti- tion of this process. In the human foetus at the seventh week, the thymus is bi-lobed below but still single above ; at about the ninth week, it consists of two Tninute elongated parallel parts, lying chiefly on the upper part of the pericar- dium ; at the twelfth week it is already comparatively broad, and its surface is entirely covered with lobules ; it then increases rapidly until birth, but not with * In some animals the arterial, as well as the venous, branches are found at the periphery of the follicles, to near the centre of which the capillaries converge (as in Peyer's patches). Fig. 200. Fig. 200.---Transverse Section of a Lobule of an Injected Infan- tile Thymus Glaud (from Kol- liker). Magnified. a, capsule of connective tissue sur- rounding the lobule ; b, b, follicles ; c, cleft in the centre of the lobule, probably produced by the shrinking away of the soft follicular substance ; from it the blood-vessels are seen to extend towards and ramify in the spheroidal follicles.