PEYER'S PATCHES. 365 placed around very irregu- Fig. 261. most points distinctly marked off from it, partly owing to the fact that their supporting retiform tissue becomes closer and finer, partly owing to their being closely surrounded by a rich plexus of lymphatic vessels ; or they may even hang, as it were, into a lymph (or lacteal) sinus, which entirely surrounds the follicle, except above. The epithelium over the follicles often shows a large number of lymph corpuscles between the epithelial cells. The main part of the follicle is situated in the submucous tissue; but it extends upwards, piercing the muscularis mucosas, into the mucous membrane, causing a slight bulging of this towards the interior of the gut (as in fig. 264, d d). The prominent part of the follicle has villi upon it, and larly, are seen the mouths of the crypts of Lieberkiihn (fig. 260). The agminated glands or glands of Peyer (who described them in 1677), are groups or patches of lymphoid follicles. The groups have an oblong figure (fig. 261), and vary from half an inch to two or even four inches in length, being about half an inch, or rather more, in width : they are placed lengthways in the intestine at that part of the tube most distant from the mesentery ; and hence, to obtain the best view of them, the bowel should be opened by an incision along its attached border. The lymphoid nodules (fig. 264) which by their aggregation make up a Peyer's patch are in almost all respects similar to the solitary glands above described. As a rule, however, their surface is free from villi, and the crypts of Lieberkiihn are col- lected in circles around the follicles (fig. 262). In the situation of Peyer's patches, the mucous and submucous coats of the intestine adhere more closely together than elsewhere, so that it is there im- impossible to inflate the areolar coat. Fine blood-vessels are distributed abundantly on the exterior of the 1 -^ive off still finer capillary branches, which, supported by Fig. 261.—A Small Patch of Peyer's Glands from the Ileum. Slightly Magnified (Boehm.) follicles, and Fig. 262.—Enlarged View of a part of a Patch of Peyer's Glands, showing four Follicles. Magnified about 10 Diameters. The figure shows the surface of the intestinal mucous membrane over part of a patch, occupied by villi, between which are the orifices of the crypts of Lieberkiihn ; except over the four folli- cles, where there are no villi. The crypts of Lieberkiihn are arranged chiefly in circles round the nodules. Fig. 262. the retiform tissue, centre (fig. 263). are disposed principally in lines converging to the