255 INTIMATE STRUCTURE. 5, 5, right ventricle ; 6, left ventricle ; 6', apex of the heart: the white line outside the heart is intended to indicate the external pericardium, as if the anterior half were removed Tby a transverse incision ; 7, 7, vena cava superior ; 8, 8, internal jugular veins; 9, 9, subclavian veins, joining the jugular ; 9, 7, 9, innominate veins ; the right rising behind the sterno-clavicular articulation, the left crossing obliquely behind the upper half of the manubrium. The position of the first parts of the innominate artery, left carotid and left subclavian arteries, is indicated behind and below this vein ; 9', 9', outer part of the sub- clavian arteries. It is to be observed that in this figure the attachment of the sixth costal cartilage to the sternum is represented a little too high. The right ventricle extends from above down from the third to the sixth cartilages on the left side * The conus arteriosus is its most projecting part, being uncovered by lung. The auriculo-ventricular sulcus corresponds with a line drawn obliquely upwards from near the sternal end of the 6th costal cartilage on the right side, to the 3rd car- tilage on the left. The rounded margin formed by the left ventricle extends on the left side from the 3rd cartilage to a point in the fifth space two inches vertically below the nipple. The sharp margin formed by the right ventricle passes from the sternal end of the 6th cartilage on the right, and crosses behind the 7th right cartilage, the ensiform (at its upper third), and the 7th left cartilage, to meet the other margin at the apex. The apex of the heart (fig. 174, 6') is situated about 3^ inches to the ieft of the middle line, in the fifth intercostal space, close to the upper margin of the sixth rib. The auriculo-ventricular openings lie slightly to the right of the line of the auriculo-ventricular sulcus. The tricuspid orifice lies behind the lower fourth of the sternum, its upper border being on a level with the fourth cartilages. The left auriculo-ventricular opening extends from the 3rd space to the 5th cartilage behind the left half of the sternum. The orifice of the pulmonary artery is placed immediately to the left of the sternum, behind the edge of that bone and the 3rd cartilage ; the aortic orifice, also partly behind the left half of the sternum, is on a slightly lower level than the orifice of the pulmonary artery (being- opposite the lower part of the 3rd cartilage and the 3rd intercostal space), and is covered by it in one-fourth its diameter. The aortic orifice is exactly behind the posterior wall of the conus arteriosus. INTIMATE STRUCTURE OF THE HEART. The substance of the heart consists chiefly of muscular tissue; but "besides this a certain amount of fibrous and fibro-cartilaginous tissue is met with, collected principally at the base of the ventricles around the ventricular orifices. Fibro-cartilage and fibrous tissue.—In the angle between the aortic and the two auriculo-ventricular openings (see fig. 171, close to 8) a fibro-cartilaginous mass is found, which in some animals, as the ox and elephant, is bony, and is known as the os cordis. From this central fibro-cartilage processes pass in various directions. One of these, extending downwards to meet the fleshy septum of the ventricles, separates the left ventricle from the right auricle, forming the right boundary of the aortic vestibule. These processes form the bases of what have been described by authors as the fibrous or tendinous rings of the auriculo-ventricular and arterial openings. The fibrous tissue of these rings is continuous with that which is found in the segments * These are sometimes termed the " cardiac cartilages." VOL. II. S