STRUCTURE OF THE RETINA. G17 part of the retina. The ganglionic layer (2) is especially thickened, the cells being from six to eight deep, bipolar and situated rather obliquely. The nerve-fibre layer (1) gradually gets thinner towards the edge of the fovea, the fibres dipping in to join the inner ends of the bipolar ganglion-cells. The fibre which passes from the other end of each of the latter is said to bifurcate, each branch becoming connected with a granule of the inner nuclear layer (Merkel). The inner granules are also somewhat obliquely disposed, are large, and near the bottom of the fovea, where the layers of nerve-cells and of inner granules run together, they can hardly be differentiated (Hulke). The outer nuclear layer (6) is occupied in the greater part of its thick- ness by the very long and obliquely disposed cone-fibres ; the corre- sponding nucleated enlargements are only two or three deep, and take up a comparatively small portion of the layer. The yellow tint of the macula is deepest towards the centre : it is due to a diffuse colouring matter which is seated in the interstices between the elements of the several layers, except in the layer of cones and the outer nuclear layer. It is soluble in water or alcohol, and absorbs the blue and violet rays of the spectrum. Structure of the ora serrata and pars ciliaris.—At the ora serrata the numerous complex layers of the retina for the most part disappear, and in front of the ora serrata, the retina is repre- sented merely by a single stratum of elongated co- lumnar cells with the pigmentary layer external to them (pars ciliaris). The transition is, in man, somewhat abrupt, all the changes being met within a zone of about ¥iy in. only in breadth. Tne layer of rods and cones (fig. 427,//) first dis- appears, the cones continu- ing rather further than the rods, but soon ceasing; the nerve- and gangiionic- layers, which were already very thin near the ora, here cease altogether ; the inner molecular layer (c), which is now largely occupied by Miil- lerian fibres, retains its thickness up to a certain point, and then suddenly terminates with a rounded off margin {a'), while the nuclear layers, outer and inner, (/, d), here become merged into a single layer, which is continuous with the columnar cells of the pars ciliaris. These (fig. 427, m), which are at first of consider- able lengthy become gradually shorter anteriorly; they are finely granular or striated in appearance (fig. 428, 2), each with "a clear oval nucleus at the outer part of the cell, near the pigmentary layer. The Fig. 427. Fig. 427.—Vertical Section through the Choroid and Retina near the Ora Serrata (Kolliker). 60 Diameters. a, hyaloid membrane ; 1), limiting membrane and nervous layer of the retina ; c, ganglionic and inner molecular layers with closely set Mullerian fibres ; d, inner nuclear ; e, outer molecular ; /, outer nuclear layer ; g, columnar layer ; Ji, pigment ; i, Tc, choroid ; I, part of one of the ciliary processes ; m, pars ciliaris of the retina. (The recess shown at a' is not constant.)