CEREBELLUM. 515 Fig. 360.—Outline of the Upper Fig. 360. From these nuclei, groups of nerve-cells may be traced for a con- siderable distance down the medulla. The relation of the auditory nuclei, and of the sensory nucleus of the fifth, to the grey matter of the medulla, has been already spoken of. In the position of the motor nucleus of the fifth, cells can be traced as far as the point of the calamus scriptorius. From the facial nucleus, a group of cells extends down to the inner side of the hypoglossal nucleus, to the lowest part of which it may be traced. This relation is of considerable interest in connection with the conjoined movements of the lips and tongue. (For fuller details on the anatomy of the medulla oblongata and pons Varolii the reader is referred to Lockhart Clarke's paper in the Philo- sophical Transactions for 1868, to Meynert's article on the Brain in Strieker's Histology, to Henle's Handbnch der Anatomie, Bd. iii., Abth. 2, and to Kolliker's Handbuch der Gewebelehre, 5th ed.) THE CEREBELLUM. The Cerebellum hinder brain, consists of a body and of three pairs of crura ox peduncles, by which it is connected with the rest of the cerebro- spinal axis. The cerebellum is covered with grey cortical substance, rather darker than that of the cerebrum. Its greatest diameter is transverse, and extends to about three and a half or four inches : its width from before backwards is about two or two and a half inches ; and its greatest depth is about two inches, but it is much thinner round its outer border. Surface of the Cerebellum. (Allen Thomson.) h At the upper part of the figure, the -crura cerebri and parts behind them have been cut through and left in con- nection with the cerebellum. III. the third pair of nerves lying upon the crura cerebri; c r, white matter or crust of the crura cerebri ; I n, locus niger ; t, tegmentum contain- ing grey matter in the upper part of the crura ; a s, aqueduct of Sylvius ; q, corpora quadrigemina, the upper elevations divided ; s v, superior ver- miform process, some of the foremost folia, immediately behind q, form the ■central lobe (of Reil) ; I q, lobulus quadratus ; p s, posterior superior lobe; fh, horizontal fissure ; p i, posterior inferior lobe; n, the notch between the hemi- spheres. It consists of two lateral hemispheres joined together by a median |:>ortion called the vermiform process, which in man is distinguishable only as a small though well marked part below, named the inferior vermiform process, and a mere elevation above, called the superior vermiform process (fig. 360). In birds, and in animals lower in the scale, this middle part of the cerebellum alone exists ; and in most mammals it forms a central lobe very distinct from the lateral portions. The hemispheres are separated behind by a deep notch (fig. 3G0, n).