595 STRUCTURE OF THE CORNEA. The membrane of Demours or Descemet (fig. 400, 4) (posterior elastic lamina, Bowman), not very closely united with the fibrous part of the cornea, is transparent and glassy in appearance. It is firm and structureless, but Fig. 402. very brittle and elastic ; and when shreds are removed from it they tend to curl up with the attached surface innermost. It appears not to be affected by acids, by boiling in water, or by maceration in alkalies. In thickness it varies from to 2o'oo 0I* an inch. It is lined with an epithelioid cover- Fig 402.—Part op the Epi- ing (fig. 400, 5), which resembles that on thelioid Layer of the serous membranes, consisting of a single Membrane of Demours. layer of flattened polygonal cells with dis- tinct nuclei (fig. 402). At its circumference the membrane breaks up into bundles of fibres, which are partly continued into the front of the iris, forming the " pillars of the iris," and partly into the fore part of the choroid and sclerotic coats. To these festoon-like processes passing between the iris and posterior part of the cornea, at its junction with the sclerotic, and which are very much more marked in the eyes of the sheep and the ox than in the human eye, the name ligamentum pectinatum iridis was given by Hueck. The processes in question are covered with epithelioid cells, continued from Descemet's membrane, but these cells do not stretch across the intervals between the processes, so that the cavity of the aqueous chamber is prolonged into, and freely communicates with, cavernous spaces* in the tissue between the processes (fig. 403, 3). A similar, but rather larger space is found slightly anterior to these in the substance of the sclerotic, close to its junction with the cornea. This, which is elliptical in section, is known as the sinus circularis iridis, or canal of Schlemm (fig. 403, 4), and is said to communicate, through the other spaces, with the aqueous chamber of the eye, owing to the open nature of the tissue in this situation, and the breaking up of the membrane of Demours into distinct bundles, as just described. But, on the other hand, the canal of Schlemm, and the other cavernous spaces in its neighbourhood, are in communication with the veins of the anterior part of the sclerotic, and therefore the aqueous chamber must also through them communicate with the veins. In support of this, it is stated that both the spaces and the veins become filled with coloured fluid when this has been injected into the anterior chamber. Why the blood does not find its way into the latter during life is not fully understood, since no valves have as yet been discovered in the veins which lead out from the spaces : the reason is, probably, that a greater resistance is offered to its passage here than to its return by the ordinary paths. The above statements are mainly derived from the account given by Schwalbe ; but, according to Leber, the results obtained were due to a diffusible colouring matter having been employed for filling the anterior chamber: when a non-diffusible one is used it never penetrates into the canal of Schlemm, which is simply a large circular terminal vein, or a collection of two or three plexiform veins uniting at frequent intervals into one trunk. * Larger in many animals, where tliey are known as the spaces of Fontana.