THE CEREBRUM. Immediately behind the anterior pillars is an interval on each side- between the anterior part of the fornix and the groove where the optic thalamus and corpus striatum meet. This interval leads from the lateral ventricle to the third ventricle. The openings of opposite sidesr passing downwards and backwards, meet in the middle line below, and thus is produced a passage, single below, but dividing into two branches above, somewhat like the letter Y, and forming a communication between the third ventricle and both lateral ventricles. This passage is named the foramen of Monro, or foramen commune anterius. The posterior crura or pillars of the fornix (fig. 378, 6) are the diverging continuations backwards of the two flat lateral bands of which the body is composed. At first they adhere to the under surface of the corpus caliosum, then, curving outwards, each crus enters the descending cornu of the corresponding lateral ventricle, where part of its fibres are bestowed on the surface of the great hippocampus and the remainder are prolonged as a narrow band of white matter, named tcmia hippocampi or corpus fimbriatum, which skirts the concave margin of the hippo- campus major, and extends to its extremity. On examining the under surface of the fornix and corpus caliosum, there are seen posteriorly the thickened border or pad, and in front of it the diverging halves of the fornix, between which a triangular portion of the corpus caliosum appears, marked with transverse, longitudinal, and oblique lines. To this part the term lyra has been applied (fig. 382,12). The transverse fissure of the cerebrum is the passage by which; the pia mater passes from the surface into the ventricles of the brain to form the choroid plexus. It may be laid open in its whole extent, after the lateral ventricles have been opened, by completely dividing the fornix and corpus caliosum in the middle line, and raising the divided parts from the undisturbed velum interpositum below. It will then be found that, in like manner, the posterior and middle portions of the brainr including the hippocampus major and corpus fimbriatum, may be raised from the subjacent parts as far as the extremity of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. The transverse fissure is, therefore, a fissure extending from the extremity of the descending cornu on one side, over the constricted part of the cerebrum, to the extremity of the descending cornu of the other side. It is bounded above by the corpus caliosum and fornix in the middle, and more externally on each side by a free margin of the hemisphere : inferiorly it is bounded near the middle line by the corpora quadrigemina, and on each side by the posterior part of the optic thalamus. In the free margin of the hemisphere, brought into view by opening out the part of the transverse fissure which leads into the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle, there are seen (fig. 381) (1st) the ribbon- like ledge formed by the corpus fimbriatum, along the hippocampus major: (2nd) beneath this, a small grey indented ridge, the fascia dentata; and (3rd) beneath the fascia dentata, the gyrus hippocampi.. On making a transverse section (fig. 381, B), it is seen that the corpus fimbriatum forms the free margin of the white substance of the hemi- sphere, and that the fascia dentata is the free margin of the cortical substance, and is continuous with the grey matter of the hippocampus major, and that thus the hippocampus major is the swelling in reverse of the sulcus between the fascia dentata and gyrus hippocampi (uncinate