119 MUSCULAR TISSUE OF THE HEART. It is generally collected into larger and smaller fasciculi, which in many cases cross one another and interlace. The fasciculi are connected at their ends with tendinous tissue, and are thus inserted into the mem- branous and firmer parts in the neighbourhood. Small tendons are also fixed by blending with the fibrous sheaths investing contiguous muscular bundles. Ellis states that in the gullet the longitudinal mus- cular fasciculi are intersected wholly or partially, at intervals of from ^ to of an inch, by small tendons into which they are inserted, after the fashion of the rectus abdominis, only on a miniature scale. The plain muscular tissue is met with in the lower half of the gullet, the stomach, and the whole intestinal canal ; that is, both in the muscular coat of the alimentary canal, and also as a layer in the tissue of the mucous membrane, and in the villi; in the trachea and bronchial tubes, in ; the bladder and ureters, and the ducts of the larger glands generally, in the uterus and its appendages, in the corpora cavernosa of both sexes, in the prostate gland, and in the ciliary muscle and iris. The middle coat of the arteries, the coats of many veins and the larger lymphatics contain plain muscular tissue. It has also been detected in certain parts of the skin, in the dartos or subcutaneous tissue of the scrotum, and in form of minute muscles attached to the hair-follicles. Muscular Tissue of the Heart.—The fibres of the heart differ remarkably from those of involuntary muscular organs in general, in- asmuch as they present transverse strias. The stria?, however, are less strongly marked, and less regular, and the fibres are smaller in dia- meter than in the voluntary muscles. They differ also from these in being made up of distinct quadrangular cells (fig. 78) joined end to Fig. 78. Fig. 79. Fig. 78.—Six Muscular Fibre-Cells from the Heart. Magnified 425 Diameters. a, line of junction between two cells ; b, c, branching of cells. From a drawing by Mr. J. E. Neale. Fig. 79.—Muscular Fibres from the Heart, magnified, showing their cross strijs, divisions, and junctions (Kolliker.) end and often presenting a branched or forked appearance near one extremity (c.) Each cell has commonly a single clear oval nucleus