766 DEVELOPMENT OF THE ORGANS OF SENSE. retinal and pigmental layers rapidly contracts, and finally the rods and cones are closely united with the layer of pigment cells. The optic nerve, as already described, is at first connected by its origin with the vesicle of the third ventricle or thalamencephalon, and for a time it retains. its original hollow form. But as the cerebral hemispheres are developed forwards, the eye and the optic nerve are thrown backwards and downwards, and a new connection is established between the optic nerve (or tract) and the vesicle of the midbrain (mesencephalon) : the rudiment of the optic commissure is at the same time formed by the median approximation of the stalks and the growth of one over the other. Each stalk then becomes more and more solid by the development of nerve fibres along with the intruded connective tissue which forms the sheath substance of the nerve. Lens.—The development of fibres from the hinder wall of the primitive lens-follicle continuing to take place, the cavity of the follicle is first greatly narrowed and then completely filled up by the lengthening fibres, and the lens takes more and more of its full spherical shape. The new fibres continue to be formed towards the margin of the lens; each fibre retaining its nucleus, so as to produce the nuclear zone which runs through the whole lens. This zone is at first situated far back in the lens while the fibres are still short, but as they elongate, its place is advanced, so that it comes to be situated considerably in front of the equatorial plane of the lens. It is most distinct towards the margin where the fibres are newly formed. The anterior wall of the lens-follicle remains as a simple cellular layer. The greater number of the fibres now follow the general curve of the surface of the lens, presenting therefore their concavity towards its centre, but the curvature gradually diminishing in those nearest the middle, where they are straight or nearly so. Only the external short and recently formed fibres present a concavity towards the exterior. The intersecting stars of the anterior and posterior poles of the lens now make their appearance by the collection of cells in the peculiarly shaped triradiate space in these two situations, and the ends of the fibres are now traceable to the edges of these spaces, so that the fibres gradually take the arrangement round the poles of the lens Fig. 567.—Transverse Vertical Section of the Eyeball op a Human Embryo of four weeks. (from Kolliker). ™0 The anterior half of the section is represented. jpr, the remains of the cavity of the primary optic vesicle ; p, the inflected part of the outer layer, form- ing the retinal pigment ; r, the thickened inner part giving rise to the columnar and other struc- tures of the retina ; v, the commencing vitreous humour within the secondary optic vesicle; v', the ocular cleft through which the loop of the central blood-vessel, a, projects from below ; I, the lens, with a central cavity. The capsule of the lens, according to Lieberkiihn's and Julius Arnold's most recent observations, owes its origin to the thin innermost pellicle of mesoblast which is introduced at an early period of development between the lens and the secondary ocular vesicle. which belongs to the adult. Fig. 567.