THE EPIDIDYMIS. 4-19 epididymis, they form a series of small conical masses, the bases of which are turned in the same direction, and which are named coni vasculosi. They are about ^th of an inch in diameter. Their walls contain, besides fibrous tissue, longitudinal and transverse plain muscular fibres. The largest of the cones is about eight lines long, and when unrolled, each is found to consist of a single coiled duct, varying from six to eight inches in length, and the diameter of which gradually decreases from the testis to the epididymis (Huschke). Opposite the globus major these separate efferent vessels open, at intervals which, in the unravelled tube, are found to be about three inches in length, into a single canal or duct, the intervening and subsequent convolutions of which constitute the epididymis itself. The canal of the epididymis is disposed in very numerous coils, and extends from the globus major downwards to the globus minor or tail, where, turning upwards, it is continued on as the vas deferens. When its complicated flexuosities are unrolled, it is found to be twenty feet and upwards in length. The smallest windings are supported and held together by fine areolar tissue ; but, besides this, numerous fibrous Fig. 321.—Injected Testicle, Epididymis, and Vas Deferens (from Kolliker after Arnold). a, body of the testicle ; h, lo- bules ; c, vasa recta ; d, rete vas- culosum ; e, vasa efferentia ; /, coni vasculosi ; g, epididymis ; A, vas deferens ; i, vas aberrans ; m, branches of the spermatic artery- passing to the testicle and epidi- dymis ; n, ramification in the testis ; o, deferential artery; p, its union with a twig of the sper- matic artery. partitions are interposed between larger masses of the coils, which have been named the lodes of the epididymis, the general direction of which is across that body. The canal of the epididymis is, at its commencement, about y^th of an inch in diameter, but diminishing as it proceeds towards the globus minor, it is about -^th of an inch, after which it again increases in size, and becomes less deeply convoluted as it approaches the vas deferens. Its coats, which are at first very thin, become thicker in its progress. The vasa efferentia and the tube of the epididymis differ from the other portions of the ducts of the testis in the possession of thicker walls, provided with a considerable amount of plain muscular fibres. The epithelial lining cells are columnar or prismatic in form and arc ciliated. In the epididymis the cells are greatly elongated, in the vasa efferentia they are shorter ; in the lower part of the epididymis the cilia disappear o a 2