MUSCULAR TISSUE. 122 Kiihne names myosin, is liquid ; but if it be then exposed to the ordi- nary heat of the atmosphere it partially coagulates, and the portion then remaining liquid (the muscle-serum) when heated to 112° F., or less if it be strongly acid, yields a further coagulum, which Kiihne con- siders peculiar to muscle; and finally, at 167°, ordinary coagulated albumin. The primary coagulation is hastened by the presence of blood, and possibly it may be due to the mutual reaction of two albu- minoids analogous in their operation to the fibrinogen and para-globulin of the blood (ante, p. 29). The coagulum of myosin is soluble in strong solutions of neutral salts, and accordingly it may thereby be dissolved out of dead and rigid muscles ; but it loses this property if previously dissolved in dilute hydrochloric acid. It then, in fact, agrees with the so-called syntonin, which Kiihne regards, not as an original albuminoid of muscle, but as myosin altered by the process of extraction. It has been suggested that the ready solution of muscular fibre in dilute hydrochloric acid may be owing to the presence of pepsin in minute quantity. Other substances also exist in muscle, but in very small propor- tion in comparison with the albuminoid matter. Most of them probably result from the process of wear of the original muscular substance. Amongst them are, — 1. Kreatin and kreatinine, both of them nitrogenized and crystalline, the former neutral, the latter (derived from it) alkaline; both are also found in the urine. 2. Sarkin. 3. A substance termed <£ carnin," hitherto only found in Liebig's ex- tract of beef (Weidel). 4. Non-nitrogenized substances, viz.: grape sugar; inosit—an unfermentable sugar from the tissue of the heart; glycogen, at least in embryos and young animals. 5. Various organic acids, viz., lactic, inosinic, butyric, acetic, formic, and uric. 6. Salts, in which potash predominates over soda, magnesia over lime, and phos- phoric acid over chlorine,—muscle, in this respect, resembling blood- corpuscles as contrasted with serum. Lastly, a variable amount of fat may be extracted from muscle, and also gelatin; the latter no doubt from connective tissue ; for it must be remembered that a piece of muscle subjected to analysis comprehends, along with the proper mus- cular fibres, more or less of connective tissue, blood-vessels and nerves. The account here given of the chemical constitution of muscle applies especially to the striped variety, but, so far as is known, it is essentially the same in the non-striated tissue, and recent researches point to the probability that ordinary protoplasm possesses a similar chemical constitution. The juice expressed from a muscle after death, and especially after rigidity has set in, is acid, from the presence of lactic acid ; so that the cut surface of a dead muscle reddens litmus-paper. On the other hand, a perfectly fresh section of muscle in the living body, or while it retains its irritability, is alkaline or neutral. But, while this is true of a living muscle in its usual state, it gives a decided acid reaction after it has been strongly exerted, as, for instance, after tetanic spasm excited by electricity or by strychnia poisoning. The acid is probably generated by a change in the saccharine matter of the muscle. Ultimately the tissue in all cases becomes alkaline from putrefaction and the evolution of ammonia. Physical properties of muscle.—A dead muscle has little strength, and may be torn asunder by a force of no great amount. A living muscle readily yields to extension, and shrinks exactly to its original length when the extending force