THE TEETH. 316 beginning at the posterior end—and thus by the end of the 15th week the groove is obliterated, and the tooth-germs included in shut sacs ; a condition named by Goodsir the saccular stage (fig. 215, 6, 7). He described the closing of the pits as taking place by the growth and mutual union of little lappets or opercula over their orifices (fig. 215, 4 and 5 ; fig. 217 o). Certain lunated depressions, with enclosed epithelium, which are formed one behind each of the milk-follicles about the fourteenth week, escape the general adhesion of the lips of the groove (figs. 214, C,fjp, 217, c, 215). These are the germs of the ten anterior permanent teeth as will be afterwards shown. While the above-described changes are going on, the soft embryonic tissue bounding the cavity which contains the tooth-germ, becomes converted into a vascular membranous sac, and the osseous foundation of the maxilla is laid. The jaw is at first in form of a bony gutter, Fig. 216. Fig. 217. Fig. 216.—Enlarged View of the Upper and Lower Dental Arches of a Fcetus of about Fourteen Weeks. This specimen shows the follicular stage of development of all the milk teeth as described by Goodsir ; in each follicle the papilla is seen projecting ; but this exposure of the papilla and the cavity of the follicle arises from the accidental loss of the epithelial covering. Fig. 217.—Enlarged Diagram of the Dental Arch on the Left Side of the Lower Jaw of a Fcetus of about Fourteen Weeks (slightly altered from Goodsir). /, the follicles of the five milk teeth, supposed to be open, showing the dental papilla? within them, and o, the opercula on their borders; they are numbered from 1 to 5 in the order of their first appearance ; c, to the inside of each is the lunated depression forming the commencement of the germ of the corresponding permanent tooth. in which the teeth-rudiments are lodged; but this is soon divided by osseous partitions into chambers for the several tooth-sacs, at first with wide openings, which afterwards are narrowed, but so as to allow the contained sacs to cohere with the gum along the border of the jaw. The recesses in question are not the alveoli; these are formed subsequently around the fangs of the teeth as they rise into their permanent place, and the jaw is deepened by the growth of its alveolar border. The dental sacs are well seen in the jaw of an infant a few months old, before the eruption of the teeth. They are represented at this stage in fig. 218. They consist of an outer fibro-vascular coat connected with the periosteum, and an inner highly vascular layer with a little jelly-