STRUCTURE OF THE HAIR-FOLLICLES. 221 it swells out at its lower end into a bulbous enlargement or knob (fig-. 147 c), and is received into a recess of the skin named the hair- follicle, which, when the hair is of considerable size, reaches down into the subcutaneous fat. The follicle, which receives near its mouth the opening ducts of one or more sebaceous glands (Jo, h), is somewhat dilated at the bottom, to correspond with the bulging of the root; it consists of an outer coat continuous with the corium (fig. 147, h ; 148, d, el), and an epidermic Fig. 147. Fig. 147.—Medium-sized Hair in its Follicle, magnified 50 Diameters from (Kolliker). a, stem cut short; &, root; c, knob ; d, hair-cuticle ; e, internal and /, external root-sheath ; g, h, dermic coat of follicle ; i, papilla ; Tc, k, ducts of sebaceous glands ; I, corium ; m, mucous layer, and n, horny layer of epidermis ; o, upper limit of internal root-sheath (from Kolliker). Fig. 148.—Magnified View of the Root of a Hair (after Kohlrausch). a stem or shaft of hair cut across ; b, inner, and c, outer layer of the epidermic lining of the hair-follicle, called also the inner and outer root- sheath ; d, dermic or external coat of the hair- follicle, shown in part ; e, imbricated scales about to form a cortical layer on the surface of the hair. The adjacent cuticle of the root-sheath is not repre- sented, and the papilla is hidden in the lower part of the knob where that is represented lighter. lining (fig. 147, e,f; 148, con- tinuous with the cuticle. The outer or dermic coat of the fol- licle (fig. 149, 1 in tranvsverse section) is thin but firm, and consists of three layers. The most external (fig. 149, a) is formed of connective tissue in longi- tudinal bundles, without any elastic fibres, but with numerous corpuscles. It is highly vascular, and provided with nerves. It is intimately con- nected above with the corium, and determines the form of the follicle. The most internal layer (hyaline layer, Kolliker) (fig. 149, d) is a