DEVELOPMENT OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 750 enlarged, and presents a longitudinal median slit, analogous to the rhomboidal sinus in birds. The anterior fissure of the cord is developed very early, and contains even at first a process of the pia mater. Fig. 550. Fig. 550.—Transverse Sec- tion op Half of the Spinal Cord of the Chick of Seven Days (from Fos- ter and Balfour). Magnified. pew, posterior, lew, lateral, and acw, anterior white columns; pc, posterior cornu of grey matter with small cells ; ac, anterior grey cornu with large cells ; cp, epithelium of the canal ; c, the upper part now open and filled with tissue in the posterior fissure ; spc, the lower division of the primitive medullary cavity, which remains as the per- manent canal ; af, anterior fissure left between the pro- jecting anterior columns ; age, anterior grey commissure. The cervical and lumbar enlargements, opposite the attachments of the brachial and crural nerves, appear at the end of the third month : in these situations the cen- tral canal, at that time not filled up, is somewhat larger than elsewhere (see figs. 556 and 558). At first the cord occupies the whole length of the vertebral canal, so that there is no cauda equina. In the fourth month the vertebras begin to grow more rapidly than the cord, so that the latter seems as it were to have been retracted within the canal, and the elongation of the roots of the nerves which gives rise to the cauda equina is commenced. At the ninth month, the lower end of the cord is opposite the third lumbar vertebra. (Kolliker, Entwickelungsgeschichte ; Lockhart Clark in the Phil. Trans. 1862 ; Bidder und Kupfer, Untersuch. ub d. Ruckenmark, Leipz., 1857. Foster and Balfour, Elements of Embryology.) Till lately it was believed that the roots and ganglia of the spinal nerves are at first distinct from the medullary substance of the cord, and that they originate by differentiation of cells in the inesoblastic substance of the protovertebral plate. But recent observations, to be more particularly referred to hereafter, have shown that they arise in part at least in close connection with the spinal cord itself. THE BRAIN OR ENCEPHALON. 1.—General phenomena of development as ascertained in birds and' mammals.—A reference has previously been made to the simple form in which the brain at first presents itself in the anterior dilated portion of the primitive medullary tube, and its partial division into the three primary cerebral vesicles. This is placed within simple cranial walls formed by the cephalic inflection of the blastoderm, without face or