VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE SMALL INTESTINE. 3G7 VOL. II. b r. The lacteal plexuses, which are abundant in the whole extent of the intestine, are especially rich where they surround the follicles of Peyer's glands (fig. 264), often forming sinuses as in the case of the solitary follicles above described. In all, from twenty to thirty of these oblong patches may in general be found; but in young persons dying in health, as many as forty-five have been observed. They are larger and placed at shorter distances from each other, in the lower part of the ileum; but in the upper portion of that intestine and in the lower end of the jejunum, the patches occur less and less frequently, become smaller, and are of a nearly circular form; they may, however, be discovered occasionally in the lower por- tion of the duodenum. Still smaller irregularly shaped clusters of these follicles are some- times found scattered throughout the intestine. It was formerly presumed without question that Peyer's and the other closed follicles in the alimentary tract constituted a peculiar capsular form of secreting glands ; but there is now no doubt that they are more immediately connected with the lymphatic system, and their similarity on a small scale to the structure of the lymphatic glands is unmistakeable. It is found that the glands of Peyer are best marked in the young subject. After middle life they become less obvious, and are said to disappear completely in advanced age. "Vessels and Nerves—The branches of the mesenteric artery, having reached the attached border of the intestine, pass round its sides, dividing into numerous ramifications and frequently anastomosing at its free border. Most of the larger branches run immediately beneath the serous coat; they then pierce the mus- cular coat, supplying it with vessels as they pass, and ramify in the submucous areolar layer, so as to form a close network, from which still smaller vessels pass on into the mucous coat, and terminate in the capillary network of the folds, villi, and glands of that membrane. The fine capillaries of the muscular coat are arranged in two laj^ers of oblong meshes, which correspond in direction with the longitudinal and circular muscular fibres. The veins accompany the arteries. The lymphatics of the intestine (lacteals) may be conveniently distinguished as those of the mucous membrane, and those of the muscular coat. Those of the mucous membrane form a copious plexus (fig. 261) which receives the central vessels of the villi and pervades both the mucous and submucous layers—in the latter being of considerable size, and forming, as before mentioned, a close plexus or a sinus around the base of each lymphoid follicle ; but there is not, in the human subject at least, the same distinct division into two strata which has been found in the stomach (Teichmann). From the submucous plexus larger vessels proceed and pierce the muscular coat to open into the lymphatics which lie under the peritoneal coat, and which are especially developed along a narrow strip at the attachment of the mesentery. With regard to the lymphatics of the muscular coat, the main plexus is situated between the circular and longitudinal layers of fibres ; and there are likewise close plexuses threading the whole thickness of the muscular wall. These muscular lymphatics are in complete continuity with those of the mucous membrane, and pass into larger vessels at the mesenteric border, which again run into the lacteal vessels of the mesentery. To these absorbents of the muscular coat Auerbach gives the name of " inter- laminar plexus." * The nerves of the small intestine are chiefly derived from the superior mesenteric plexus. This plexus is formed superiorly by nervous branches, of which those in the middle come from the coeliac plexus, and the lateral ones proceed directly from the semilunar ganglion, and it also receives con- tributions from the vagus nerve. The plexus and plexiform branches into which it divides cling at first very closely to the larger divisions of the superior mesenteric artery, and, dividing similarly with the ramifications * Virchow's Archiv, vol. xxxiii. p. 340.