THE EAR, 656 ported by any plate of bone. The exact nature of the tissue composing the proper substance of the membrane is unknown, but it is probably analogous, at least the uppermost stratum, to that composing the rods of Corti, to be afterwards described. It is somewhat stiff in con- sistence, and may readily be broken up into straight fibres which have a radial direction, corresponding with a striation which the membrane, especially its outer part, presents when viewed on the flat (fig. 470). Externally, at its attachment to the spiral ligament, it breaks up into diverging fibres, which spread into that projection. On the upper surface of the membrane is the epithelium which forms the organ of Corti, and the single layer of cells which is continued from this ex- ternally (fig. 469) : on the under surface it is covered by a layer of connective tissue (often described as part of the membrane), the fibres of which have a longitudinal direction, parallel with the spiral, and across the direction of the fibres of the membrane proper. There are numerous intermixed spindle-shaped corpuscles in this tissue, which is in con- tinuity with the lining periosteum of the scala tympani. Small blood- vessels are found in it, but as a rule extending only over the inner part of the membrane. They are usually terminated by a rather larger longitudinally running vessel, situate opposite the outer rods of Corti, and known as the vas spirals. The membrane of Keissner (figs. 467, 469, R), separates the scala vestibuli from the canal of the cochlea. It is composed of an exces- sively delicate and almost homogeneous layer of connective tissue con- tinuous with the lining periosteum of the scala vestibuli, and is covered on the surface which is turned to the cochlear canal with a simple layer of delicate scaly epithelium continuous below with that on the limbus and above with that lining the outer wall of the canal (fig. 469). The cells have each a circular flattened nucleus, and not unfrequently contain fat droplets of various sizes. The vestibular side of the mem- brane of Keissner is quite smooth, and is covered with a layer of flattened epithelioid connective-tissue cells, readily distinguishable from the true epithelial cells on the other side as well by their greater delicacy of outline, and their larger size, as by the history of their development. A few blood-capillaries are continued into the membrane from the neighbouring periosteum. The periosteum which lines the scala vestibuli and scala tympani, •consists of ordinary connective tissue. There is no continuous lining of flattened cells on the free surface (that bathed by the perilymph), such as covers the surface of serous membranes. That, on the other hand, which bounds the canal of the cochlea externally, is very much thickened by a development of retiform connective tissue, and is covered by the epithelium of that tube, which here forms a single layer of cubical cells, many of which contain pigment. The periosteum, moreover, forms usually a slight inward projection a little above the ligamentum spirale, containing a prominent blood-vessel (fig. 469, L. sj). a). The substance of the periosteum is also frequently pigmented immediately under the epithelium of the tract between this prominence and the membrane of Reissner, and from containing large and nume- rous blood-vessels, is often termed stria vascularis (St.v.). Immediately beneath the epithelium is a basement membrane, through which, in sections, processes may here and there be seen passing from the epithelium to the subjacent tissue.