517 CEREBELLUM. and white matter, and might be compared with the gyri of the cere- brum, but are smaller and without convolution. These laminee are separated by slightly-curved grooves or sulci of different depths. Fissures.—One principal fissure, or sulcus, named the great horizontal fissure (fig. 360, fh), divides the cerebellum into an npper and a lower portion. It begins in front at the entrance of the middle peduncles, and passes horizontally backwards round the outer border of the hemispheres. From this primary fissure, numerous others proceed on both the upper and under surfaces, forming nearly parallel curves, having their concavities turned forwards, and separating the folia from each other. All these furrows clo not go entirely round the hemis- phere, for many of them coalesce one with another ; and some of the smaller furrows have even an oblique course between the others. More- over, on opening the larger fissures, many of the folia are seen to lie concealed within them, and do not reach the surface of the cerebellum. Lobes.—Certain fissures, which are deeper than the rest, and constant in their position, have been described as separating the cerebellum into lobes, which are named as follows. The central lobe, situated on the upper surface (fig. 360, 9), consists of about eight folia, immediately adjoining the anterior concave border. The superior and anterior lobe, sometimes called quadrate (1. q), and the superior and posterior lobe (p. s.), are placed between the central lobe and the great horizontal fissure. On the under surface (fig. 362) are seen Fig. 362. Fig. 362.—Inferior Surface of the Cerebellum with the Posterior Medullary Velum (Allen Thomson after Reil and Reichert, and from nature). § The medulla oblongata has been in great part removed by a cut passing through it near the pons Varolii ; the two amygdaloid lobules have also been removed, and the medulla and pons Varolii pulled downwards in order to bring into view the posterior medullary velum. P s, posterior superior lobe of the cerebellum ; / Ii, horizontal fissure ; p i, posterior inferior lobe ; g, lobulus gracilis ; b i, biventral lobe ; c, placed on the folia which pass across between the hemispheres of opposite sides ; p, pyramid ; u, uvula ; n, placed in the fourth ventricle immediately below the nodule ; p v, on each side, placed on the cut surface where the amygdala? have been removed, points by a line to the posterior medullary velum ; v, r, cavity of the fourth ventricle within the borders of the velum and behind the inferior cerebellar peduncles ; the cavity extends on each side into the pedicle of the flocculus, /; m, section of the medulla oblongata, in which the posterior opening of the olivary capsules of grey matter is shown ; VI, sixth nerves ; V, roots of the fifth nerves, and above them, the facial and auditory roots.