125 NERVOUS SYSTEM. In like manner certain causes acting locally on muscles accelerate the extinction of their irritability. Uigror mortis.—The " cadaveric rigidity," or stiffness of the body, which ensues shortly after death, is a phenomenon depending on the muscles, which become fixed or set in a rigid state, so as to resist flexion of the joints. The rigidity almost invariably begins in the muscles of the lower jaw and neck, then invades those of the trunk, and afterwards those of the limbs,—the arms usually before the legs. After persisting for a time, it goes off in the same order. It usually comes on within a few hours after death, rarely later than seven hours. In some cases it has been observed to begin within ten minutes (Sommer), and in others not till sixteen or eighteen hours ; and the later its access, the longer is its endurance. The rigidity comes on latest, attains its greatest intensity, and lasts longest hi the bodies of robust persons, cut off by a rapidly fatal disease, or sud- denly perishing by a violent death ; in such cases it may last six or seven days. On the other hand, it sets in speedily, is comparatively feeble, and soon goes off in cases where the body has been much weakened and emaciated by lingering or exhausting diseases; also in new-born infants, and in the muscles of animals that have been hunted to death. It seems thus to be affected by the previous state of nutrition of the muscles. Destruction of the nervous centres does not prevent the occurrence of rigidity, nor are the muscles of paralysed limbs exempted from it, provided their nutrition has not been too deeply affected. The fibres of stiffened muscles no longer show the muscular electric current. The immediate cause of the muscular rigidity is doubtful : some conceive it to be an effect of vital contraction,—the last effort of life as it were ; others, with more probability, ascribe it to a solidification of the tissue caused by chemical changes occurring after death. Kuhne adduces various arguments, some of them, it must be admitted, of a cogent character, to show that the stiffening is due to post-mortem coagulation of the myosin. He thinks that the substance of the fibre is liquid during life; but it is difficult to reconcile his notion of actual fluidity of substance with some of the most obvious properties of a living muscle. At the same time, it is conceivable that liquid myosin may be present in the interstices of more consistent elements of the living fibre, and may give rise to rigidity by coagulating after death. Free lactic acid is developed in the sub- stance of rigid muscle, and some regard it as the cause of the coagulation of the myosin, but although an acid condition very generally accompanies rigidity, the concurrence is not invariable or essential. Brown-Sequard, in opposition to the chemical theory, maintained that he could remove rigidity by injecting blood into the vessels of the muscle ; but Kuhne holds this to be impossible after rigor has decidedly set in. The general accession of rigidity is an unequivocal sign of death. NERVOUS SYSTEM. The nervous system consists of a central part, or rather a series of •connected central organs, named the cerebrospinal axis, or cerebrospinal centre; and of the serves, which have the form of cords connected by one extremity with the cerebro-spinal centre, and extending from thence through the body to the muscles, sensible parts, and other organs placed under their control. The nerves form the medium of communi- cation between these distant parts and the centre. One class of nervous fibres, termed afferent or centripetal, conduct impressions towards the centre,—another, the efferent or centrifugal, carry motorial stimuli from the centre to the moving organs. Besides the cerebro-spinal centre and the nervous cords, the nervous system comprehends also certain bodies named ganglia, which are con- nected with the nerves in various situations. These bodies, though of much smaller size and less complex nature than the brain, agree, never-