THE CEREBRUM. 546 the fornix, to the point of each descending cornu. They consist of a highly vascular -villous membrane. The villi with which they are covered are again divided upon their surfaces and at their borders into small processes, along which fine vessels are seen to run. Numerous small vessels pass between the plexuses and the surface of the corpora striata, as well as other neighbouring parts, and the epithelium of the ventricles is continued over their surface. Thus it is only at the foramen of Monro that the epithelial lining of the lateral ventricles is continuous with that of the third ventricle. The epithelium changes its character where it covers the plexus. It is there composed of large spheroidal corpuscles, in each of which is seen, besides a distinct nucleus, several yellowish granules, and one or more dark round oil- drops. According to Henle each of these cells is provided with short, slender, acuminate, transparent, and colourless processes. On raising the velum interpositum, two slight vascular fringes are seen running along its under surface, and diverging from each other behind. They form the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. The choroid artery enters the velum interpositum at the point of the descending cornu ; and other arteries enter from behind, beneath the corpus callosum. The greater number of the veins terminate in two principal vessels named the veins of Galen, which run backwards on the velum interpositum, and passing out beneath the corpus callosum pour their blood into the straight sinus, having generally first united into a single trunk. The velum having been removed, the optic thalami are brought fully into view, together with the cavity of the third ventricle situated between them, while, behind the third ventricle, between it and the upper surface of the cerebellum, are seen the pineal body, the corpora quadrigemina, the valve of Vieussens, and the superior peduncles of the cerebellum. The third ventricle is a narrow longitudinal cleft placed between the optic thalami, which bound it on its two sides. It is covered above by the velum interpositum and the fornix. Beneath, its floor is formed by the following parts, which have been already described as seen on the base of the cerebrum ; viz., commencing from behind, the posterior perforated space, the corpora albicantia, the tuber cinereum and infundi- bulum, and the lamina cinerea, the last of which also serves to close it in front, as high as the anterior commissure. Behind, is the anterior opening of the aqueduct of Sylvius. The cavity is crossed by three commissures, named from their position, anterior, middle, and posterior. The middle or soft commissure is composed almost entirely of grey matter, and connects the two thalami. It is variable in size, and some- times wanting ; it is liable to be torn across in examining the brain. The anterior commissure is a round bundle of white fibres, placed immediately in front of the anterior pillars of the fornix, and crossing between the corpora striata. It marks the anterior boundary of the ventricle ; its fibres extend laterally through the corpora striata a long way into the substance of the cerebral hemispheres, connecting the two temporo-sphenoidal lobes. The posterior commissure, also white but of smaller size, is placed across the back part of the ventricle, between the posterior parts of the thalami, immediately before and below the pineal body, with which and with the corpora quadrigemina it is intimately connected. It consists