328 THE TONGUE. ovoidal or flask-shaped bodies, composed of modified epithelium cells, and believed to be special organs of taste. These taste-buds, as they have been termed, are comparable in form and structure to the leaf-buds of a plant (fig. 228). By their bases they are in contact with the corium, while their apices, which appear as round openings or pores when viewed from the surface, emerge between the ordinary epithelium cells. The latter are flattened around the taste-buds, enclosing them in a sort of nest. The taste-buds themselves may be described as consisting of a cortical and a central part. The cells composing the cortical part are long and flattened with tapering ends (fig. 229 c), and are in contact by their edges, extending from base to apex of the organ (fig. 228) ; they are disposed in more than one layer, and enclose the central' part like the external scales of a leaf-bud. The enclosed or central cells (fig. 222 a), on the other hand are not flattened but spindle-shaped, Fig. 229. Fig. 229.—Various Cells prom Taste-bud of Rabbit. 600 Diameters (Engelmann). a, Four cells from central part ; b, two cortical cells, and one central cell, in con- nection ; c, three cells from cortical part. having an enlargement near the middle where the nucleus is situated, and being prolonged at each end by a process, one of which extends upwards towards the apex of the taste-bud, and is surmounted by an excessively fine styliform extremity which projects at the orifice, whilst the other, which is commonly more slender and sometimes divided or branched at its extremity, passes clown into the corium of the mucous membrane, and is described as being connected with a plexus of fine nervous fibrils found in this situation. The similarity of these central or gustatory cells with the well-known olfactory cells of Max Schultze will be at once apparent. The taste-buds were discovered by Loven and Schwalbe, independently of each other.* They have now been found on the sides (but never on the upper surface) of the papillas vallatse of a'great number of animals, and are seen also on some of the fungiform papillse to be immediately described. Their structure is most readily studied in the rabbit and hare, for in these animals there is found at each side of the base of the tongue an oval laminated structure, the so-called papilla foliata, the laminae composing which contain in the epithelium of their opposed surfaces great numbers of those bodies. A small area, situate just in front of the anterior pillar of the fauces, of variable appearance, but usually with five longi- * Loven, Schwalbe, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. 1867, and Arch. f. mikr. Anat. 1868 ; Engelmann, in Strieker's Handbook ; Kranse, Gottinger Nachrichten, 1870. According to Krause the distribution of the taste-buds follows that of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. ♦