155 ENDING OF NERVES IN VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. terminal organ, and receives consequently but one nerve-fibre. As, moreover, the fibres of a nerve undergo division, probably repeated division, before ending, it fol- lows that one fibre in a nerve- root or trunk may supply several muscular fibres. Longer muscular fibres have two or more end-plates. The motorial end-plates have now been recognised in mamma- lia, birds, and scaly reptiles. They were discovered by Rouget* in lizards and warm-blooded animals; they had been previously found, but in a modified form, by Doyere and others in various invertebrata. In amphibia (fig. 106) there is no true end-plate, but the branches resulting from the division of the medullated nerve lose their medul- lary sheath on penetrating the sarcolemma, and are continued as pale fibres. These give off branches which run for a short distance parallel with the axis of the fibre between the sarcolemma and the muscular substance, terminating abruptly by rounded extremities. These pale fibres present here and there slight enlargements, con- nected with which are granular, pear-shaped nuclei not to be confounded with the proper nuclei of the muscle (<?). A fine tortuous fibril is stated by Kiihne to be given off from the pale fibre to each of these granular nuclei, and to terminate in it by a bulbous enlargement. The above account may be taken as the one most in accordance with the more recent researches on the subject, and as probably, on the whole, correct. It is, however, only right to state that the existence of the end-plates has been lately called in question by Gerlach, who from the study of muscular fibres prepared with chloride of gold has arrived at the conclusion that the axis-cylin- der of the nerve after passing through the sarcolemma forms Fig. 106.—Nerve-Ending in Muscle of Frog (Kiihne). a, one of the branches of the medullated fibres passing within the sarcolemma ; b, b, granular pear-shaped nuclei; c, c, nuclei of primitive sheath ; e, muscle nuclei. a close network of minute varicose fibrils * Comptes Rendus, lv., 1862. See also Krause, Gottinger Nachrichten und Zeitsch. f. rat. Med. (various papers): Engelmann, Unters. ueber d. Zusammenh., &c, 1863 : Kiihne, Virch. Arch, (various papers), and article in Strieker's Handbook of Histology, where also a complete account of the history and literature of the subject will be found.