745 FORMATION OF THE JOINTS. formative cells in the outer or superficial part of the protovertebral masses. Some difference of opinion exists, however, among embryolo- gists, as to how far the hypaxial (hyposkeletal of Huxley) as well as the epaxial muscles, proceed from this source alone, or whether only the latter are traceable to the muscular plate formed by the proto- vertebral differentiation, and the hypaxial may be supposed to proceed from a deeper source. Eecent observations seem to show that a downward extension of the mesoblast from the protovertebrae may also give rise to the hypaxial muscles. Being developed from the segmented protovertebral elements, the muscular plate shows at first the same division into segments, which are separated for a time by intermuscular septa (myotomes) as occurs during life in a considerable number of them in fishes and amphibia. The formation of the longer muscles of the trunk proceeds from the disappearance of the septa, and the longitudinal union of the fasciculi of successive myotomes. In the trunk the direction of these remains for the most part chiefly longitudinal, but those connected with the limb-girdles change their direction with the development of the limb. The formation of the muscles of the limbs themselves has not been traced in detail. The greater number of these muscles appear rather to arise independently in the blastodermic tissue of the limb-bud, than to be prolonged from the sheets of trunk-muscles (Kolliker). The facial muscles and the platysma, belong to the subcutaneous system, and are developed along with the skin. The diaphragm is at first wanting. It arises soon after the forma- tion of the lungs, from two parts which spring from above and the sides, and which divide the pleural and peritoneal cavities, which were previously in one, from each other. The muscles begin to be formed in the human embryo in the sixth and seventh week. Formation of the Joints.—With regard to the formation of the joints, very little is known. It would appear that the cavities of the synovial joints are not yet formed at the time when chondrification has taken place in the matrix of the bones. It is therefore by a secondary process of solution of continuity that these cavities are pro- duced. The articular cartilages remain as the coverings of the opposed surfaces of the bones, and the various ligamentous and other parts belonging to the joints arise by processes of textural differentiation which it is unnecessary to particularise here. Distinction of Bones according- to their Cartilaginous or Membranous Origin.—There is here appended for the assistance of the reader a note of the distinction as regards their origin from cartilage or fibrous membrane of the several permanent bones of the skeleton. 1. Bones arising from Cartilage:— a, In the Head. Basi-occipital, ex-occipital, and part of the supra-occipital or squama occipitis. The whole sphenoid except the cornua sphenoidalia. The petro-mastoid or periotic portion of the temporal bone. The mes-ethmoid and ethmo-turbinal. The pterygo-palatine. The malleus (quadrate of animals) with Meckel's cartilage. The incus and stapes, with the stylo-hyoid. The thyro-hyoid.