FOURTH VENTRICLE. 513 lozenge, truncated at its upper part. Below, it is bounded by the diverging posterior pyramids and restiform bodies, surmounted by the ligula. The portion below the auditory strias has been already described. Just above the stride the eminentia teres forms a convex prominence on each side of the median furrow. To its outer side is a depression, fovea anterior, and above this, near the npper part of the ventricle, is a •collection of pigment beneath the surface of a shallow depression, which thus has a greyish tint, and is known as the locus coeruleus. The lining membrane of the ventricle is continuous with that of the ventricles in the interior of the cerebrum, through the aqueduct of Sylvius, in which situation it is marked by delicate rugse, oblique or longitudinal in direction. At the sides it is reflected from the medulla to the cerebellum, and extends for a considerable distance outwards, in the form of a pouch, between the flocculus and the seventh and eighth nerves. At the lower end of the ventricle, there is, as was ascertained by Magendie, a narrow orifice in the membrane by which the cavity communicates with the subarachnoid space. Projecting into the fourth ventricle at each side, and passing from the point of the inferior vermiform process outwards and upwards to the outer border of the restiform bodies, are two small vascular processes, which have been named the chloroicl plexuses of the fourth ventricle. The grey matter in the floor of the fourth ventricle has been in part described in connection with the medulla oblongata. Opposite the middle of the fourth ventricle, beneath the eminentia teres on each side, lies the common nucleus of the sixth and seventh (facial) nerves (fig. 359, vii'). These nerves to reach it pass upwards as Fig. 359. Fig. 359.—Section through the Poxs Varolii, opposite middle of Eminentia Teres. vi, sixth nerve ; vn, facial nerve ; vn', common nucleus of seventh and sixth nerves ; Vii", descending portion of seventh; v s, sensory nucleus of fifth nerve; v m, motor nucleus of fifth nerve (Lockhart Clarke); Au, auditory nucleus; so, superior olivary body; t, transverse fibres of "trapezium;" below these are seen the cut bundles of fibres from the anterior pyramids. C P. m, middle peduncle of cerebellum cut across. M, superficial transverse fibres. l l 2