091 AXIAL RUDIMENTS OF THE EMBRYO. Fig. 501. Fig. 501.—Embryo of the Dog seek from above, This primitive axis constitutes in some measure the centre of sub- sequent changes of development. It consists mainly of a thickening- produced by the accumulation of blastodermic cells. 1.— INTRA-EMBRYONIC PHENOMENA OP DEVELOPMENT. Axial Rudiment of tlie Embryo.—Cerebro-spinal Axis.—The genetic changes which lead to the first formation of the rudiments of the embryo may be briefly sketched as follows :— The longitudinal thickening of the blastoderm, which forms the primitive trace, belongs at first chiefly to the upper layer or epiblast, but soon, extends to the central part of the middle layer or mesoblast. The hypoblast takes no share in its production. The elongated plate or thickening is very soon separated towards the cephalic end of the primitive trace by a median groove or linear depression into two lateral plates, which, thickening to some extent, rise into ridges and thus constitute the laminae dorsales, or dorsal ridges. The groove deepening, and the ridges becoming more elevated, there is then formed a canal, and by the further eleva- tion of the ridges, their approach to each other, and their final coal- escence in the middle line, the canal is gradually closed in along the dorsal line. The part of the upper layer which has undergone this inflection and enclosure acquires considerable increased thickness, but still a cavity remains in its interior. The part where it was closed dorsally now becomes separated from the upper layer or epiblast with which it was originally continuous, and the latter passes subsequently free and entire across the dorsal line. WITH A PORTION OF THE BLASTODERM ATTACHED. The medullary canal is not yet closed, but shows the dilatation at the cephalic extremity with a partial division into the three primary cerebral vesicles ; the posterior extremity shows a rhomboidal enlargement. The cephalic fold crosses below the middle cerebral vesicle. Six pri- mordial vertebral divisions are visible ; so, the upper division of the blastoderm ; sp, the lower division, where they have been cut away from the peripheral parts. This canal is wider at the cephalic ex- tremity in which the rudiment of the brain is situated, it is of uniform diameter in the suc- ceeding or middle part, and at the caudal extremity remains open for a time, but is closed in at a later period like the rest. The rudiment of the great nervous centre arises in a thickening of the central portion of the enclosed epiblast which is originally continuous with the rest of the upper layer ; but this part which forms the brain and spinal marrow exhibits considerable thickening at an early stage, thus constituting what by some have been called the medul- lary plates, while the canal is still open, and subsequently folded round dorsally and closed in the form of a medullary tube, within which