727 DEVELOPMENT OF THE SKELETON. another has been observed by Mihalkovics in the interval between the basi-occipital and the basi-sphenoid bones or their cartilaginous matrices. Fig. 526.—View from above of . the Embryo-Chick in the Fig. 526. FIRST HALF OF THE SECOND DAY. 1, 2, the three primary encephalic vesicles ; in front and to the sides the cephalic fold ; crossing at 2 the fovea cardiaca ; 3, the caudal extremity of the medullary canal dilated into a rhomboid form ; 4, 4, six primordial vertebral divisions. In front of this last swelling, the chorda is bent down below the base of the skull, and tapering to a fine filament, ends or is lost in the floor of the pituitary fossa. The enlargements now mentioned have some interest in connection with the question of the vertebral constitution of the skull. Segmentation of the Protovertebrse.—The transverse vertebrate segmentation which occurs in the primary vertebral plates affects only that part of these plates which is formed of mesoblast. It begins at a very early period, as already stated, even before the close of the primary medullary canal, in the form of one or two, or it may be three short transverse transparent lines which separate a corresponding number of dark or condensed quadrilateral masses of the primitive vertebral plates. These quadrilateral masses, the so-called primordial vertebra (Urwirbel of the Germans) (fig. 526, 4, 4), do not, however, correspond merely to the vertebrae of the skeleton, nor are they directly converted into their rudiments, but they are rather divisions equivalent Fig. 527.—Cervical part of the Primitive Verte- bral Column and adjacent parts of an Embryo of the Sixth Day, showing the division of the Primitive Vertebral Segments (from Kolliker after Remak). 1, 1, chorda dorsalis in its sheath, pointed at its upper end ; 2, points by three lines to the original intervals of the primitive vertebrae ; 3, in a similar manner indicates the places of new division into perma- nent bodies of vertebrae ; c indicates the body of the first cervical vertebra ; in this and the next the primi- tive division has disappeared, as also in the two lowest represented, viz., cl and the one above ; in those intermediate the line of division is shown : 4, points in three places to the vertebral arches ; and 5, similarly to three commencing ganglia of the spinal nerves : the dotted segments outside these parts are the muscular plates. in number and position to the vertebral seg- ments of the body (somatomes of Goodsir) ; each one comprising superficially a segment of the muscular plate, and more deeply a pair of intervertebral ganglia and nerves, as well as the parts of the skeleton which lie before and behind them. The more obvious protovertebral segmentation does not extend into