FORMATION OF BLOOD-CORPUSCLES. 41 In the "bird.—In the egg of the bird, the first appearance of blood-corpuscles, as well as of blood-vessels, is seen in the blastoderma, or germinal membrane, a structure formed by the extension of the cicatricula, in the early stages of incu- bation. The commencing embryo, with its simple tubular heart, is seen in the middle of this circular membrane, and blood-vessels, containing blood-corpuscles, appear over a great part of its area. These first vessels, therefore, though con- nected with the heart, and intended to convey nutriment to the embryo, are formed in an exterior structure ; but, in a somewhat later stage, blood-vessels and corpuscles are developed in various textures and organs within the body. The formation of blood-corpuscles in the middle layer of the blastoderm has been recently carefully investigated by Klein.* He describes the blood-vessels of the embryo chick as originating in an endogenous manner in the interior of certain of the cells of the middle layer of the blastoderm. It would appear, first, that the nuclei of these cells become multiplied, and that then the protoplasm around each takes on a reddish colour, and, a cavity becoming formed within the mother-cell by the enlargement of a vacuole, the newly-formed, nucleated, red blood-corpuscles become free within the cavity thus produced (fig. 16). In other instances the cavity be- comes first formed within the cell, which is considerably en- larged, and in the protoplasmic wall of which nuclei are em- bedded. From this wall, blood- corpuscles, both red and white, bud forth into the interior of the vesicle. The mother-cells send out processes which connect them with one another, and into these processes their cavities are eventually extended : in this way a system of blood-vessels contain- ing blood is produced. According to Balfour f it is the nuclei them- selves which become the coloured corpuscles, whilst the nucleoli within them develop into the so- called " nuclei" of the blood- corpuscles. It is uncertain whether any of the primary red corpuscles are formed by direct transformation of embryonic cells, as described in the embryo of Batrachians. At the same time they agree with those cells in exhibiting amoeboid movements. In man and mammalia.—In the embryo of man and mammalia the primitive red blood-corpuscles are nucleated spheroidal bodies, of much larger size than the future red disks. As to their origin nothing is certainly known : they are probably transformed embryonic cells. These large nucleated red and colourless corpuscles, continuing to increase in number, constitute the earliest, and, for a time, the only corpuscles in the embryo-vessels. But their multiplica- tion is soon arrested, and a new epoch in blood-formation begins with the development of the liver. The blood which returns to the embryo charged with fresh material of nutrition from the maternal system, has then to pass, at first entirely afterwards in great part, through the vessels of the liver ; and it would seem that henceforth colourless nucleated corpuscles are produced in that organ and poured abundantly into the general mass of blood by the hepatic veins. It is probable that the liver continues its haemapoietic or blood-forming function throughout foetal Life ; but, in the meanwhile, the spleen and lymphatic system * Wiener Sitzungsberichte, lxiii. 1871. f Quarterly Journal of Microscopic Science. July, 1873. Fig. 16 Fig. 16.—Various Forms op Mother-Cells UNDERGOING DEVELOPMENT INTO BLOOD-VESSELS (from the middle layer of the chick's blastoderm. Klein.) d, d, blood-corpuscles.