409 MINUTE STRUCTURE. In the posterior cornu the large cells are collected chiefly into a compact group, the posterior vesicular column (of Clarke) (fig. 350, c), which occupies -the inner half of the cervix. The cells lie among fine interlacing fibres, some horizontal, derived chiefly from the posterior roots of the nerves, and many longitudinal. Some cells are small and others large, with processes running in different directions, but especially upwards and downwards, parallel to the vertical fibres. This group is skirted by fibres (also chiefly from the posterior roots) which curve around it, and among which lie other fusiform nerve-cells. This group of cells is largest near the upper part of the lumbar enlargement (fig. 348, L 1), where it has a diameter of J-th of an inch, and causes a projection on the inner surface of the cervix cornu. It can be traced upwards through the dorsal region, becoming less distinct, and ceasing before the middle of the cervical enlargement is reached. Below the middle of the lumbar enlargement it is indistinct. In the upper part of the conus medullaris a group of cells behind the central canal, on each side, occupies nearly the position of this column, but has different histological connections. (Clarke.) In the outer portion of the grey matter, midway between the anterior and posterior cornua, is a small group of cells, the tractus intermedio- lateralis (of Clarke) (fig. 350, d), which occupies a projection on the sur- face of the grey matter. It extends from the upper part of the lumbar to the lower part of the cervical enlargement, being larger in the Fig. 351. Fig. 351.—A Small Portion of a Transverse Section of the human Spinal Cord NEAR THE SURFACE AT THE ENTRANCE OF A BUNDLE OF THE ANTERIOR ROOTS. (Allen Thomson.) This figure, which is somewhat diagrammatic, is intended to show the relation to the nervous substance of the pia-matral sheath of the cord and the processes of connective tissue prolonged from it between the longitudinal and other nerve fibres, a, a, a bundle ■of the anterior roots ; b, b, transverse sections of part of the anterior columns of the cord in which the dark points are the axis-cylinders, and the circles represent the outline •of the medullary substance : in these parts the connective tissue is not represented, and many of the smallest nerve-fibres have also, for the sake of clearness, been omitted ; ■c, the pia-matral covering of the cord; d, one of the compartments of the anterior column enclosed by septa of connective tissue prolonged from the pia mater, and exhibit- ing the fine frame-work of connective tissue, e, e, extending through among tlie nerve- fibres, which last have been omitted.