THE SPINAL CORD. 490 Fig. 343. its lower part, where they are closely crowded together, the roots of the lumbar and sacral nerves descend nearly vertically to reach the lumbar intervertebral and the sacral foramina, and form a large bundle of nervous cords named the cauda equina, which occupies the vertebral canal below the termina- tion of the cord (17, fig. 345). Fig. 343. — View op the Cerebro- spinal Axis of the Nervous System (after Bourgery). \ The right half of the cranium and trunk of the body has been removed by a vertical section ; the membranes only of the brain and spinal marrow have been removed, and the roots and first part of the fifth and ninth cranial, and of all the spinal nerves of the right side, have been dissected out and laid separately on the wall of the skull and on the several vertebra? opposite to the place of their natural exit from the cranio-spinal cavity. F, T, 0, lateral surface of the cerebrum ; C. cerebellum ; P, pons Varolii ; m o, medulla oblongata ; m s, upper and lower extremities of the spinal marrow ; c e, on the last lumbar ver- tebral spine, marks the cauda equina ; v, the three principal branches of the nervous trigeminus or fifth pair ; C i, the sub- occipital or first cervical nerve ; above this is the ninth pair ; C viii, the eighth or lowest cervical nerve ; D r, the first dorsal nerve ; D xn, the last or twelfth ; L I, the first lumbar nerve ; L v, the last or fifth ; S I, the first sacral nerve ; S v, the fifth ; Co i, the coccygeal nerve ; s, the left sacral plexus. Although the cord usually ends near the lower border of the body of the first lumbar vertebra, it sometimes terminates a little above or below that point, as opposite to the last dorsal or to the second lumbar verte- bra. The position of the lower end of the cord also varies according to the state of curvature of the vertebral column, in the flexion forwards of which, the end of the cord is slightly raised. In the foetus, at an early period, the cord occupies the whole length of the vertebral canal : but, after the third month, the canal and the roots of the lumbar and sacral nerves begin to grow more rapidly than the cord itself, so that at birth the lower end reaches only to the third lumbar vertebra.