503 MEDULLA OBLONGATA. the crura cerebri, descends into the pons Varolii, and through it is continued into the medulla oblongata, whilst another part joins the cerebellum. Situated on the fibres which extend up from the con- stricted part, are a series of eminences, named, from behind forwards, the corpora quadrigemina, optic thalami, and corpora striata; and springing from the front and outer side of the corpora striata are the large convoluted cerebral hemispheres, which expand from this place in all directions, concealing the eminences named, and occupying the vault of the cranium, the anterior and middle cranial fossas, and the superior fossa? of the occipital bone. The cerebral hemispheres are united to- gether by a principal and smaller commissures ; by means of which there is enclosed a cavity, which is subdivided into various ventricles, viz., the two lateral, the third, and the fifth. THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA. The medulla oblongata is bounded above by the lower border of the pons Varolii, whilst it is continuous below with the spinal cord, on a level with the upper border of the atlas, at a point which corresponds with the lower extremity of the anterior pyramids, to be presently described. It inclines obliquely downwards and backwards; its ante- rior surface rests in the basilar groove, whilst its posterior surface is received into the fossa named the vallecula, between the hemispheres of the cerebellum, and there forms the floor of the fourth ventricle. To its sides several large nerves are attached. Fig. 354.—View of the Anterior Surface Fig. 354. of the Pons Varolii and Medulla Ob- longata. a, a, anterior pyramids ; b, their decussation ; c, c, olivary bodies ; d, d, restiform bodies ; e, arciform fibres ; /, fibres described by Solly as passing from the anterior column of the cord to the cerebellum ; g, anterior column of the spinal cord ; h, lateral column ; p, pons Varolii ; i, its upper fibres ; 5, 5, roots of the fifth pair of nerves. The term medulla oblongata, as employed by Willis and Vieussens, and by those who directly followed them, included the crura cerebri and pons Varolii, as well as that part to which by Haller first, and by most subsequent writers, this term has been re- stricted. It is of a pyramidal form, having its broad extremity upwards: it is expanded laterally at its upper part: its length from the pons to the lower extremity of the pyramids is about an inch and a quarter; its greatest breadth is nearly an inch ; and its thickness, from before backwards, is about three-quarters of an inch. _ Fissures.-—The anterior and posterior median fissures which partially divide the spinal cord are continued up into the medulla oblongata. The anterior fissure terminates immediately below the pons in a recess,