DEVELOPMENT OF THE HEAD. 732 cartilages. It is mainly produced in connection with the trabecule eranii, which contain between their separated limbs the pituitary fossa. This part of the cranial basis contains no prolongation of the noto- Fig. 530. Fig. 530.—The Lower or Cartilaginous part of the Cranium of a Chick of the Sixth Day (from Huxley). 1, 1, chorda dorsalis ; 2, the shaded portion here and forwards is the cartilage of the base of the skull ; at 2 the occipital part ; at 3 the prolongations of cartilage into the anterior part of the skull called trabecular cranii ; 4, the pituitary space ; 5, parts of the labyrinth. chord; it lies below the anterior encephalic vesicle (thalamencephalon), and becomes greatly modified in connection with the expansion of the cerebral hemispheres and primary ocular vesicles, and the develop- ment of the nasal fossa? and mouth, together with the other parts of the face. The primary parts of the three principal sense organs, it may here be stated, the nose, eye, and ear, formed in connection respectively with the cerebral hemispheres, the thalamencephalon, and the third primary vesicle, are interpolated between the rudimentary parts of the head as follows, viz., 1. The nose between the frontal, intermaxillary and ethmoid ; the eye between the frontal, sphenoid, ethmoid and maxillary ; and the ear between the basi-occipital, exoccipital and alisphenoid. While the base of the cranium, to the extent already mentioned, is Fig. 531.—View from below of the Carti- laginous Base of the Cranium with its Ossifio Centres in a Human Fcetus of about Five Months (from Huxley, slightly altered). The bone is dotted to distinguish it from the cartilage, which is shaded with lines. 1, the basilar part, 2, the condyloid or lateral parts, and 3, 4, the tabular or superior part of the occipital surrounding the foramen magnum ; 5, centres of the jne-sphenoid on the inside of the optic foramen ; 6, centres of the post-sphenoid ; 7, centres of the lesser wings or orbito-sphenoid ; 8, septal cartilage of the nose; 9 & 10, parts of the labyrinth. its origin, the lateral cartilaginous in and upper walls are chiefly of mem branous formation, as in the squama occipitis, the squamo-zygomatic of the temporal, the parietal and the frontal bones. The trabecules stretch forward to the anterior extremity of the head, and maintain the foremost place as the seat of the nasal cartilages and external apertures of the nose. Behind these the coalesced trabecular form a narrow ethmo-vomerine cartilage, the nasal septum, round the