THE UTERUS. 470 Malformations.—The uterus is subject to numerous congenital malformations, especially in connection with abnormal conditions of the other genital organs. These will be referred to under Development. As a malformation affecting the uterus itself may here be mentioned the more or less double or divided state of the cavity, produced by the prolongation of a septum downwards into it from the fundus. This is sometimes only partial and confined to the upper part of the cavity; while in other instances it involves the whole cavity or also that of the cervix; and even extends through a part or the whole of the vagina. THE FALLOPIAN TUBES. These tubes may be considered as ducts of the ovaries, or oviducts, and serve to convey the ovum from thence into the uterus. They are inclosed, as already stated, in the free margin of the broad ligaments, and are between three and four inches in length. Their inner or attached extremities, which proceed from the upper angles of the uterus, are narrow and cord-like ; but they soon begin to enlarge, and pro- ceeding outwards, one on each side, pursue an undulatory course, and at length, having attained the width of about a sixth of an inch or more, they bend backwards and downwards towards the ovary, about an inch beyond which they terminate in an expanded extremity, the margin of which is divided deeply into a number of irregular processes named fimbria; one of these, somewhat longer than the rest, is attached to the Fig. 333. Fig. 333.—Diagrammatic View op the Uterus and its Appendages, as seen from behind. (A. T.) § The uterus and upper part of the vagina have been laid open by removing the posterior wall ; the Fallopian tube, round ligament, and ovarian ligament have been cut short, and the broad ligament removed on the left side ; u, the upper part of the uterus ; c, the cervix opposite the os internum ; the triangular shape of the uterine cavity is shown, and the dilatation of the cervical cavity with the rugfe termed arbor vitse ; v, upper part of the vagina ; od, Fallopian tube or oviduct ; the narrow communication of its cavity with that of the cornu of the uterus on each side is seen ; I, round ligament ; lo, ligament of the ovary ; o, ovary ; i, wide outer part of the right Fallopian tube ; / i, its fimbriated extremity ; po, parovarium ; h, one of the hydatids frequently found connected with the broad ligament. outer end of the corresponding ovary. The wide and fringed end of the Fallopian tube, or rather trumpet, as the term " tuba " literally signi- fies, is turned downwards and towards the ovary, and is named the fimbriated extremity (morsus diaboli). In the midst of these fimbriae, which are arranged in a radiated manner, the tube itself opens by a