48i THE PERITONEUM. denum and a curve of the hepatic artery. From this opening the lesser sac spreads out to the left behind the general or main sac of the peritoneum. It covers a part of the posterior abdominal wall, but in front and below it is applied to the back of the main sac, to which it adheres except where the stomach is interposed. Moreover, it indents, as it were, the back of the main sac, and between the stomach and colon protrudes into it in form of a great pouch—the bag of the omentum,—which thus has a double coat, formed by the apposition of the membranes of both sacs. To trace this arrangement more particularly : suppose a finger pushed into the foramen of Win slow, and the thumb brought to meet it from before, to the left of the hepatic vessels; the membrane held between is double ; its anterior layer (from the greater sac), turns round the hepatic vessels into the foramen, and then belongs to the lesser sac. The double membrane, so constituted, is the lesser or hepato-gastric omentum. From the point indicated it may be followed to the transverse fissure of the liver, where its lamina separate, the anterior, which has already been traced from above, spreading on the adjacent part of the liver, the posterior covering the lobulus Spigelii, where it will be again met with. The attachment of the combined layers continues backwards from the left end of the transverse fissure along the fossa ductus venosi to the diaphragm, on which it runs a short way to reach the oesophagus, where the anterior lamina covers the end of that tube in front and on the left, and the posterior lamina invests it on the right and behind. From this point, as far as the pylorus, the lesser omentum is attached to the lesser curvature of the stomach, where its lamina separate—one covering the anterior and the other the posterior surface of the organ— but meeting again at the great curvature, they pass down in conjunction to a variable distance before the small intestine to form the anterior part of the great omental sac, and then turn up to form its posterior wall. Meeting next with the transverse colon, the two laminse separate, and enclose that intestine, but meet again behind it to form the trans- verse mesocolon. This extends back to the lower border of the pancreas, from which its inferior layer is continued down over the posterior wall of the abdomen, and forms the mesentery, where it has been already recognised. The superior layer, on the other hand, which, as will be understood, belongs to the lesser sac, covers the front of the pancreas, the coeliac artery and its main divisions with the adjacent part of the diaphragm, and may extend to the left end of the pancreas and lower end of the spleen, partially investing the latter organ and forming part of the gastro-splenic ligament. It then goes forward on the lobulus Spigelii to the transverse fissure, and the line of attach- ment of the lesser omentum of which it then becomes the under layer. More to the right the layer in question passes over the vena cava, and continues into the general peritoneum beyond the foramen of Winslow. The gastric and hepatic arteries, especially the former (Huschke), may raise the membrane into folds which project into the cavity. From the description given it will be understood that, as the sides or walls of the great omental bag consist of two peritoneal layers, its whole thickness (in its usually empty and collapsed state) will comprehend four layers. But although the bag may be inflated in its whole extent in the infantile body, its sides afterwards