77 DEVELOPMENT OF HYALINE CARTILAGE. latter case a cell becomes surrounded by many concentric capsules formed in succession ; that is, the first capsule is expanded, and the others formed each within its expanding predecessor, so that the cartilage comes to consist of scattered cells, each with a concentric system of capsules, which by means of re-agents may be rendered visible in the neighbourhood of the cells, but further off are inseparably blended into a uniform substance. "When, on the other hand, the cells have a tendency to frequent subdivision, the new capsules are produced by Fig. 46. ABODE Fig. 46.—Ideal Plan of the Multiplication op Cells op Cartilage. A, cell in its capsule ; B, divided into two, each with a capsule ; C, primary capsule disappeared, secondary capsules coherent with matrix ; D, tertiary division ; E, secondary capsules disappeared, tertiary coherent with matrix. the new cells, and are included in and finally blend with those which had be- longed to the previous cells, as shown by fig. 46. The matrix, although thus formed of the capsules, becomes to all appearance homogeneous ; but in sections of cartilage that have been exposed to acids and other re-agents, the contour lines of the capsules round cells and cell-groups may be more or less distinctly brought into view. But, whilst admitting that the capsules have a share in the production of the matrix, Kolliker and some other histologists incline to the opinion that part of it is an independent deposit. Heidenhain, however, found that, when thin sections of cartilage are digested for twenty-four hours in water, at from 112° to 122° F., or in diluted nitric acid with chlorate of potash for a greater or less time according to the degree of dilution, the matrix becomes parted or marked off into polygonal areas corres- ponding to the larger groups of cells, and these again into smaller groups or single cells, without any intervening substance ; the whole matrix thus appearing to be portioned out into segments, each appertaining to a larger or smaller group of cells, and in all probability representing the aggregated capsules belonging to them. The vital changes which occur in cartilage take place very slowly. Its mode of nutrition has been already referred to ; it is subject to absorption, and when a portion is absorbed in disease or removed by the knife, it is not regenerated. Also, when fractured, as sometimes happens with the rib-cartilages, there is no re-union by cartilaginous matter, but the broken surfaces become connected, especially at their circumference, by fibrous or dense areolar tissue, often by a bony clasp.* But, notwithstanding that normally it is not regenerated, hyaline cartilage occurs in perfectly characteristic form as a morbid product in certain tumours. * Recent observations tend to show that, in animals at least, the connective tissue which in the first instance joins the ends of a divided rib-cartilage eventually becomes itself transformed into true hyaline cartilage (Archangelsky, Barth.)