MOVEMENTS OF CELLS. 12 have acquired a more or less dodecahedral form (as is frequently the case in plants, see fig. 2), or where, by growth of young cells beneath them, they become flattened out and forced towards a free surface, as probably happens in the case of the stratified epithelia. Examples of the latter are observable in the ramification of the cells of the nervous and connective tissues, and in the elongation of cells to form muscular fibres. 3. Movements of Cells.—Many cells undergo spontaneous movements, leading to temporary changes in their form. If we watch carefully under a high power of the microscope any cell which is exhibiting these pheno- mena—a pale blood-corpuscle, for example—we observe, in the first place, at one point of its circumference, a protrusion of a portion of its proto- plasm, which is commonly at first clear and hyaline, but into which granules are soon seen to flow. After a short time this process may be retracted, and another similarly protruded at another point, and again withdrawn, and so on for a considerable time, the corpuscle remaining all the while perfectly stationary. Occasionally, however, especially if the corpuscle be maintained at the temperature of the body, the part protruded remains fixed, and the cell itself is drawn towards the extremity of the process. Should this occur a number of times in the same direction, a slow progressive motion of the whole cell is the result. In this way cells such as we are now considering may undergo very considerable changes of form and place within a relatively short time. Thus, under certain conditions, the pale blood-corpuscles may some of them make their way out of the blood-vessels and move freely in the surrounding tissues: hence the term " migratory cells" (Wanderzellen) applied to them. The movements which we have just been describing as occurring in cells are quite similar to those which are exhibited, but in a more vigorous manner, by the common fresh-water amoeba, and are hence designated "amoeboid." They are more marked in cells in the young state, such as those of the embryo, but are not altogether absent in some which persist in the fully-developed tissues, as, for example, in the connective tissue corpuscles. The contractile property of the proto- plasm, to which its movements are due, would seem to be quite com- parable to the contractility of muscular substance ; for it is found that the substance of these protoplasmic cells contracts under the electric stimulus, whether this be directly applied, or, as observed by Kiihne in the cornea, indirectly through the medium of the nerves." In the cells of the YalUsncria, Chara, and various other plants, when exposed under the microscope, the green coloured grains (of chlorophyll) and other small masses and corpuscles contained in the cavity, are seen to be moved along the inside of the cell-wall in a constant and determinate direction. This phenomenon appears to be of very general occurrence in the vegetable kingdom, although the movement does not always go on with the same regularity as in the instances cited. It is obviously due to a layer of protoplasm on the inner surface of the cell-wall, which enters into a peculiar flowing or undulating motion and trails the passive chlorophyll granules along with it; but how the motion of the pro- toplasm itself is produced is not at all understood. To the same class of phenomena are probably to be referred the remarkable movements observed in the pigment-cells of the frog's skin, which were carefully investigated by Lister.f In these ramified cells the dark particles of pigment are * Untersuchungen iiber das Protoplasma unci die Contractilitat. 1864. f Phil. Trans., 1858.