268 THE PLEUEiE. ill the alimentary mucous membrane, would appear to be absent here, at least in the normal condition. The nerves come from the trunk and recurrent branches of the pneumo-gastric, and from the sympathetic system. Their mode of termination has not yet been satisfactorily traced. The general structure of the bronchi corresponds with that of the trachea in every particular. Their cartilaginous rings, which resemble those of the trachea in being imperfect behind, are, however, shorter and narrower. The number of rings in the right bronchus varies from six to eight, whilst in the left the number is from nine to twelve. The bronchi are supplied by the bronchial arteries and veins, and the nerves are from the same source as those of the trachea. THE LUNGS AID PLEUKJE. The lungs, placed one on the right and the other on the left of the heart and large vessels, occupy by far the larger part of the cavity of the chest, and during life are always in accurate contact with the in- ternal surface of its wall. Each lung is attached at a comparatively small part of its flattened inner or median surface by a part named the root, and by a thin membranous fold which is continued downwards from it. In other directions the lung is free and its surface is closely covered by a serous membrane, belonging to itself and to the corre- sponding side of the thorax, and named accordingly, the right or left pleura. THE PLEURiE. The pleurae are serous membranes forming two shut sacs, quite dis- tinct from each other, which line the right and left sides of the thoracic cavity, form by their approximation in the middle line the mediastinal partition, and are reflected each upon the root and over the entire free surface of the corresponding lung (see fig. 163). Each pleura consists of a visceral and & parietal portion. The visceral portion,pleura pulmonalis, covers the lung; and the parietal portion lines the ribs and intercostal spaces, pleura costalis, covers the upper- convex surface of the diaphragm, enters into the formation of the mediastinum, and adheres to the sides of the pericardium. The mediastinum, or partition between the two pleural cavities, is formed by the reflection of each pleura from the anterior wall of the chest backwards on the pericardium to the root of the lung, and from the back of the root of the lung to the vertebral column. Its division into anterior, middle, and posterior mediastina, and the position and contents of each, have been already described (p. 239). At the root of each lung the visceral and parietal portions of the corresponding pleura are continuous with one another ; and, at the lower border of the root, is a triangular fold of the serous membrane,, extending vertically along the inner surface of the lung down to the diaphragm, to which it is attached by its extremity; this fold is named ligamentum latum pulmonis. The upper part of the pleura, together with the apex of the cor- responding lung, rises into the root of the neck, reaching an inch or even an inch and a half above the first rib, and passes up under cover of the scaleni muscles,—a small slip of which, arising from the trans- yerse process of the last cervical vertebra, is described by Sibson as