793 AORTIC ARCHES. ing to a large size along with the growth of the placenta. As the limbs are formed, arteries are developed in them, and these are branches of the main aorta ; but they are for a long time comparatively small, while the umbilical arteries speedily attain a large size, so that, even up to the conclusion of foetal life, they appear to form the principal part of the two large vessels into which the aorta divides at its lower extremit}7. The middle sacral artery may be looked upon as the continuation of the median stem of the aorta, and probably originates from a double vessel in the same manner as the aorta itself. The double state of the main aorta when first formed in the foetus was dis- covered by Serres, and described by him in his 4th Memoir on Transcendental Anatomy (Annal. des Scien. Nat., 1830), but was doubted by Von Baer, as Serres's observations did not show the relation of the primitive trunks of the aorta to the pharyngeal vascular arches. The fact of the original double condi- tion was, however, placed beyond doubt by Allen Thomson (Edin. New Philos. Journal, 1830) by the method of tranverse sections, then first employed as a means of embryological investigation, and the process of median union was traced in full detail. The relation of this process to the occurrence of a perma- nent double canal in the aorta as a malformation, as described by Vrolik, Schroder van der Kolk and Cruveilhier, and observed in at least one case by Allen Thomson, has already been referred to in vol. i., p. 350. According to Serres, the vertebral arteries within the cranium are originally separate, and the basilar artery results from their mesial union or fusion in the same manner as occurs in the aorta, and the median union of the anterior cere- bral arteries in the forepart of the Circle of "Willis is another example of the same process. It seems probable that the internal cross band observed by John Davy in the interior of the basilar artery (Researches Physiol, and Anatom., 1839, p. 301) may be a remains of the septum or united walls of the two vertebral arteries. Aortic or Branchial Arches.—The two primitive arterial arches which lead into the dorsal aorta from the arterial bulb of the rudi- mentary heart, at the time of the establishment of the first circulation, are the most anterior of a series of five pairs of vascular arches which are developed in succession round this part of the pharynx ; and which, since their discovery by Kathke in 1825 (Oken's Isis, 1825) have been regarded with much interest, as corresponding with those vessels which are the seat of development of the subdivided blood-vessels of the gills in fishes and amphibia. These vascular arches thus exhibit in the amniota, along with the branchial or pharyngeal clefts and visceral plates, a typical resemblance to the structure of gills, although no full development of these respiratory organs occurs in such animals, but they furnish by their various transformations the basis of formation of the permanent pulmonary and aortic stems and the main vessels to which they give rise. The form and position of the primitive aortic arches, up to the time of their transformation into permanent vessels, is nearly the same in reptiles, birds and mammals ; and the main differences in the seat and distribution of the large permanent vessels are to be traced to changes in the openness and extent of growth of the several arches. The five pairs of arches do not all co-exist at the same time, for they are deve- loped in succession from before backwards, and by the third day of incubation, or by the corresponding period of the fourth week in the human embryo, when the posterior arches have been formed, already a part of the anterior arches, beginning with the first one, has become