585 STRUCTURE OF THE CONJUNCTIVA. orbicularis muscle, attached peripherally to the margin of the orbit, and internally to the tarsi, with which its tissue is continuous. The membrane is thickest at the outer part of the orbit. On the ocular surface of each lid are seen from twenty to thirty parallel vertical rows of yel- low granules, lying im- mediately under the conjunc- tival mucous membrane, and known as the Meibomian, glands (fig.397,6,6). They are compound sebaceous glands, imbedded in grooves at the back of the tarsi; and they open on the free margin of the lids by minute orifices, generally one for each. The glands consist of nearly straight tubes, closed at the end, with numerous small esecal appendages projecting from the sides. The tubes are lined for some distance by stratified epithelium con- tinuous with that of the skin: the glandular recesses have a lining of cubical epithelium and are filled with the fatty secretion. According to Colosanti the glands have a basement membrane, and a muscular layer outside this: he further describes a network of fine nervous fibrils amongst the epithelium cells. A layer of unstriped muscular tissue is contained in each eyelid; that of the upper arising from the under surface of the levator palpebras, that of the lower from the neighbourhood of the inferior oblique muscle, and each being- inserted near the margin of the tarsus. A few fibres are also to be found in the plica semilunaris (H. Muller). It may also be mentioned in this place that the same writer describes a layer of unstriped muscle crossing the spheno-maxillary fissure, corresponding to a more largely developed layer found in the extensive aponeurotic part of the orbital wall of various mammalia. This set of fibres has been more particularly described by Turner.* The eyelashes (cilia) are strong short curved hairs, arranged in two or more rows along the margin of the lids, at the line of union between the skin and the conjunctiva. The upper lashes are more numerous and longer than the lower, and are curved in an opposite direction. Near the inner canthus the hairs are weaker and more scattered. Imme- diately within the eyelashes, between them and the muscle of Eiolan, is a row of large modified sweat-glands, which open into the mouths of sebaceous glands (not the Meibomian). Structure of the conjunctiva.—The conjunctiva consists of the palpebral part, with which may be included the plica semilunaris and * H. Muller in Zeitschr. f. wiss. Zool. 1858, p. 541; W. Turner, in Nat. Hist. Rev 1862. p. 106. Fig. 397.—Meibomian Glands of the Left Eyelids as seen from behind. a, a, palpebral conjunctiva ; 1, lachrymal gland ; 2, openings of seven or eight of its ducts ; 3, upper and lower puncta lachrymalia ; 6, 6, ends of the upper and lower Meibomian glands, of which the openings are indicated along the margins of the eyelids.