THE TEETH. 320 those, namely, which are situated between these two layers, undergo remarkable changes. Originally spheroidal, they for a time merely in- crease in number, but eventually, assuming a stellate form, they send out branches which join with one another (fig. 221, c), whilst a clear jelly- like matter collects in their interstices. Next, however, to the tesse- lated layer is a stratum of epithelial cells, which retain their original spheroidal shape. Into the cavity containing the enamel-germ numerous small papillary processes of the vascular sac and adjacent mucous membrane project, and between these, on the other hand, epithelial processes extend from the enamel-germ into the membrane. The enamel-germ is now designated the "enamel organ," organon adamantines, of Purkinje, who named the columnar epithelium on the surface of the pulp the membrana adamantinm, or enamel membrane. The enamel prisms appear to be formed by the columnar cells of the enamel-organ, either by direct calcification of their substance or by deposition. It is true that in sections a space is commonly observed between the cells and the newly-formed enamel, but this is probably produced after death by a shrinking of the soft parts. The process of formation commences next to the forming dentine, almost as soon indeed as the latter begins to be produced. The enamel substance is at first soft and friable, but gets hard eventually. The enamel organ extends no farther than the crown of the tooth, to which, therefore, the deposit of enamel is limited. As the formation of enamel becomes completed the rest of the enamel organ dwindles away : the superficial tesselated layer is believed to become the "cuticula dentis." The cement begins to be formed simultaneously with or soon after the dentine of the fang by the subperiosteal tissue, as in the formation of the superficial layers of a bone. Eruption of the temporary Teeth.—At the time of birth the crowns of the anterior milk-teeth, still enclosed in their sacs, are completed within the jaw, and their fangs begin to be formed. Their appearance through the gums follows a regular order, but the period at which each pair of teeth is cut varies within certain limits. The eruption commences at the age of seven months, and is completed about the end of the second year. It begins with the central incisors of the lower jaw, which are immediately followed by those of the upper jaw; and, as a general rule, each of the lower range of teeth rises through the gum before the corresponding tooth of the upper set. The following scheme indicates, in months, the order and time of eruption of the milk-teeth :— MOLAES. CANINES. INCISORS. CANINES. MOLARS. 24 12 18 9 7 7 9 18 12 24 Before tlie teeth protrude through, the gum, this undergoes some peculiar changes : its edge at first becomes dense and sharp, but, as the tooth approaches it, the sharp edge disappears, the gum becomes rounded or tumid, and is of a purplish hue ; the summit of the tooth is seen like a white spot or line through the vascular gum, and soon afterwards rises through it. As the crown of the tooth advances to its ultimate position, the elongated fang becomes surrounded by a bony socket or alveolus. Before the eruption, the mucous membrane is studded with a number of small white bodies, which were described by Serres as