265 THE BRONCHI. and left bronchi. In the thorax, the trachea is covered, above, by the first piece of the sternum, together with the sterno-thyroid and sterno-lryoid muscles ; lower down, by the left innomi- nate vein, then by the com- Fig. 181. mencement of the innominate artery and left carotid, which pass round to its sides ; next by the arch of the aorta and the deep cardiac plexus of nerves, and, quite at its bifurcation, by the extremity of the pulmonary artery, where this divides into its right and left branches. Placed between the two pleurae, the trachea is contained in the pos- terior mediastinum, and has on its right side the pleura and pneumo-gastric nerve, and on the left, the left carotid artery, the pneumo-gastric and its re- current branch, together with some cardiac nerves. The right and left bronchi (fig. 180, b, V) proceed each to the root of its corresponding lung. They differ from each other in length, width, direc- tion, and relation to surround- ing parts. The right bron- chus (b), wider but shorter than the left, measuring about an inch in length, passes out- wards almost horizontally into the root of the right lung on a level with the fourth dorsal vertebra: it is embraced above by the vena azygos, which hooks forwards over it, to end in the vena cava superior; the right pulmonary artery lies at first below it and then in front of it. On looking down the windpipe towards the bifurca- tion, the right bronchus appears to be a more direct continua- tion of the trachea than the left. The left bronchus (&'), smaller in diameter, but longer than the right, being nearly two inches in length, inclines downwards and outwards beneath the arch of the aorta to reach the root of the left lung, which it enters on a level with the fifth dorsal vertebra, that is, about an inch lower than the right bronchus. The left bronchus crosses 181.—Outline showing the General Form of the Larynx, Trachea, and Bronchi as seen prom behind (Allen Thomson). h, great cornu of the hyoid bone ; t, superior, and t', inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage ; e, the epiglottis ; a, points to the back of both the arytenoid cartilages, which are surmounted by the cornicula ; c, the middle ridge on the back of the cricoid cartilage ; t r, the posterior membranous part of the trachea ; b, b', right