DEVELOPMENT OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. 776 the narrow opening by which the gradually lengthening ductus vitello- intestinalis leads into the umbilical vesicle. The middle part of the intestinal canal has, when first produced, more or less the form of a straight tube lying close to the vertebral column ; but as it increases Fig. 577. Fig. 577.—Human Embryo op thirty-five days seen from before (from Kolliker after Coste). 3, left external nasal process ; 4, superior maxillary process; 5, lower maxillary process ; z, tongue ; b, aortic bulb ; b', first permanent aortic arch, which becomes ascending aorta ; b", second aortic arch; third aortic arch or ductus Botalli; y, the developing pulmonary arteries ; c, the superior cava and right azygos vein ; c', the common venous sinus of the heart ; c", the common stem of the left vena cava and left azygos ; o', left auricle of the heart; v, right v', left ventricle ; a e, lungs ; e, stomach ; j, left omphalo-mesenteric vein ; s, continuation of the same behind the pylorus, which becomes afterwards the vena portse ; x, vitello-intestinal duct ; a, right omphalo-mesenteric artery ; m, Wolffian body ; i, rectum ; n, umbilical artery ; ii, umbilical vein ; 8, tail; 9, anterior, 9', posterior limb. The liver has been removed. in length, it is thrown into the shape of a loop bent downwards to the umbilicus,—a change which is ac- companied by the formation of the mesentery. The latter structure is undoubtedly entirely due to splanchno- pleure mesoblastic elements, which, extending themselves between the pro- to-vertebral masses and the elongating gut, become developed into the vascu- lar and other parts of the mesentery, as was long ago shown by Von Baer. But the mesoblast, also, by its splan- chnopleure division, furnishes the con- tractile fibrous, vascular, and con- nective tissue elements of the intestinal walls. The extent to which the glandular elements of the alimentary canal are supplied by the hypoblast, to which their origin was entirely attributed by Remak, or furnished rather by mesoblast from the protovertebral mass, as held by Schenk, is not yet determined. As development proceeds in the forepart of the alimentary canal, a change in its form manifests itself, by which one part, becoming dilated, forms the commencement of the stomach, while the others remain of smaller diameter as gullet and duodenum; and in connection with dif- ferent parts of these the rudiments begin to appear of the lungs, liver, and pancreas. When the tubular parts of the gut have attained to some length, a change of position gradually accompanies their further development. While the oesophageal part remains comparatively straight, the dilated