481 THE PERITONEUM. With a view to the distinction of these several vestiges in the two sexes, the following- tabular enumeration of them is given, with the names proposed by Waldeyer printed in italics, viz. :— The upper or non-glomerular part of the Wolffian body forms— 1. In the male, the Epididymis. 2. In the female, the Parovarium, Organ of Rosenmuller, or Epooplioron. 'The lower or primordial-kidney part of the Wolffian body forms— 1. In the male, the organ of G-iraldes. Parepididymis or Paradidymis. 2. In the female, the Paroophoron (Eierstock und Ei. p 142). THE PERITONEUM. The abdominal viscera having now been described, as well as the disposition of the peritoneum in relation to each of them, it remains to give an account of that membrane in its whole extent, and to trace its continuity over the various parts which it lines or covers. After lining the anterior wall of the abdomen, the peritoneum passes round on either side to the lumbar region, where it meets with the right and left portions of the great intestine. On the right side it com- pletely invests the lower rounded end of the caecum with the vermiform appendix ; but the rest of the caecum it covers only before and on the sides, a part of the bowel behind, of variable extent, being immediately adjacent to the iliac fascia, except in rare instances where the mem- brane goes entirely round and forms a mesocaecum. It is disposed in a similar manner on the ascending colon which is in immediate apposition with the right kidney and other parts behind ; although here, too, the investment may be complete with a resulting right mesocolon. Leaving the right colon, the peritoneum gives a scanty covering to the anterior face of the right kidney and adjoining third portion of the duodenum where that intestine comes down from behind the transverse mesocolon ; lower down it continues over muscles and vessels to the root of the mesentery, advances forwards to form the right layer of that process, turns round the jejunum and ileum, affording them their perito- neal coat, and returns back to the vertebrae, thus completing the mesen- tery on the left side. The membrane now reaches the left colon, first passing in front of the left kidney, which being less covered by colon than the right one, gets more of the peritoneum. After investing the left colon much in the same manner as the right, the peritoneum, thus traceable horizontally round the abdomen, is continued over the lateral wall on the left side. Where the colon forms its sigmoid flexure it is completely invested by peritoneum, which attaches it by a compara- tively free and moveable sigmoid mesocolon to the fascia of the left iliac fossa. From this part, and from the lower end of the mesentery the peri- toneum is continued into the pelvis. It there invests the upper part of the rectum completely, forming a meso-rectum behind. Lower down the membrane gradually quits the intestine, first behind, then at the sides, and finally in front, whence it is reflected on the inferior fundus and posterior part of the bladder in the male, and forms here the recto- vesical pouch, the mouth of which is bounded by a crescentic fold on each side, but larger on the left, the two being named plica semilunar-es. From the superior fundus the peritoneum passes to the recti muscles. Here 112