THE EYE. 604 The anterior ciliary arteries (fig. 414, 2, 2), five or six in number, but smaller than the vessels just described, are supplied from the muscular and lachrymal branches of the ophthalmic artery, and pierce the sclerotic about a line behind the margin of the cornea ; they divide into branches which supply the ciliary processes, and join the circulus major. Besides these special arteries, numerous minute vessels enter the iris from the ciliary processes. The veins of the iris follow closely the arrangement of the arteries just described. The canal of Schlemm communicates with this system of vessels. Fig. 413. Fig. 414. Fig. 413.—Vessels op the Choroid, Ciliary Processes and Iris of a Child (Arnold). Magnified 10 times. a, capillary network of the posterior part of the choroid ending at 6, the ora serrata ; c, arteries of the corona ciliaris, supplying the ciliary processes d, and passing into the iris e ; f, the capillary network close to the pupillary margin of the iris. Fig. 414.—Front View of the Blood-vessels of the Choroid Coat and Iris from before (Arnold). Magnified 2^ times, a, choroid : b, iris ; C, ciliary muscle, &c. ; 1,1, long ciliary arteries ; 2, 2, five of the anterior ciliary arteries ramifying at the outer margin of the iris ; 3, loop of communica- tion between one of the anterior and one of the long ciliary arteries ; 4, internal circle and network of the vessels of the iris ; 5, external radial network of vessels. The ciliary nerves (fig. 415, l), about fifteen in number, and derived from the lenticular ganglion and the nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, pierce the sclerotic near the entrance of the optic nerve, and come immediately into contact with the choroid. They are somewhat flattened in form, are partly imbedded in grooves on the inner surface of the sclerotic, and communicate occasionally with each other before supplying the cornea and entering the ciliary muscle. When the sclerotic is carefully separated from the subjacent structures,