STRUCTURE OF THE LENS. C25 which covers the whole anterior surface underneath the capsule. To- wards the edge or equator of the lens the appearance and character of these cells undergo a change: they first gradually take on a columnar form, and then, becoming more and more elongated, present every transition to the nucleated lens-fibres of the superficial layers, into which they are directly continuous. This transition is more gradual and easily traced in the lens of some animals than in man (see fig. 438). Fig. 438. Fig. 438.—Section through the Margin op the Rabbit's Lens, showing the Transition op the Epithelium into the Lens-pibres (Babuchinj. The capsule of the lens is a transparent, structureless membrane, somewhat brittle and elastic in character, and when ruptured the edges roll outwards. It is very permeable to fluid, and in chemical reactions appears to be intermediate between elastic and white connective tissue, for it is slowly acted on by acids and dissolves by long boiling in water, Mt the solution does not gelatinize in the cold. The body of the lens itself contains about 60 per cent, water, and 30 per cent, solid matter ; chiefly albuminoids. The fore part of the capsule, from about inch from the circumference, where the suspensory ligament joins it. is much thicker than the back : at the posterior pole of the lens the capsule is very thin indeed. In the adult it, like the lens itself, is entirely non-vascular, but in the foetus there is a network of vessels in the capsule, supplied by the terminal branch of the arteria cen- tralis retinas, which passes from the optic papilla through the canal of Stilling in the vitreous humour to reach the back of the capsule, where it divides into radiating branches. After forming a fine network, these turn round the margin of the lens and extend forwards to become continuous with the vessels in the pupillary membrane and iris. After death a small quantity of fluid (liquor Morgagni) frequently collects between the back of the lens and the capsule : it appears to be derived from the breaking down of the lens fibres. There is no epithelium in this situation as in front. Changes in the lens by age.—In the foetus, the lens is nearly spherical (fig. 439, a): it has a slightly reddish colour, is not perfectly transparent, and is softer, and more readily broken down than at a more advanced age. In the adult, the anterior surface of the lens becomes more obviously less convex than the posterior (fig. 439, b); and the substance of the lens is firmer, colourless, and transparent. In old age, it is more flattened on both surfaces (c); it assumes a yellowish or amber tinge, and is apt to lose its transparency as it gradually increases in toughness and specific gravity. s s 2 Fig. 439. §|| Fig. 439.—Side View op the Lens at Different Ages. a, at birth with the deepest convexity; b, in adult life with medium convexity ; c, in old age with considerable flatten- ing of the curvatures.