310 FOKMATION OF THE ENAMEL. Fia 221. mm of the dentine, which is thus as it were moulded upon them, so as to form the tubules in which, therefore, the cell-processes are now enclosed. The same cell may continue to spin out a filament until the tubule is completed in its whole length, and it may be that a cell sends out two or more processes, coalescing into one as the cell recedes, so that a branched tubule is thus produced. According- to Waldeyer (with whom Boll sems to agree) it is the substance'or protoplasm of the cells which becomes trans- formed into the dentinal matrix, all except the central part, which remains unaltered, occupying the tubule, and is prolonged by another cell lying- deeper in the pulp, with which the first is in connection, and so on in succession. Moreover, he refers the anastomosis of neighbouring tubules to the existence of communicating branches between adjacent cells. The collogenous basis of the dentinal matrix is at first uncalcified (fig. 220, I)), but the material of calcification soon begins to be deposited in nodules or globules, which run together into a uniform hard substance (a). In parts where this coal- escence partially fails the uncalcified matter between the globules shrinks up when the tooth has become dry, so as to leave the interglobular spaces previously described (p. 310). The globular mode of deposition is indicated also by the inner surface of the growing dentine, which is nodulated (Czermak); and, indeed, separate nodules may sometimes be seen in the soft tissue of the growing matrix (see fig. 220). Purkinje and Raschkow described a fine pel- lucid homogeneous membrane (membrana pre- formativa) covering the surface of the pulp before the commencement of calcification, but the exist- ence of such a coating is at best doubtful, and at any rate whether present or not, it appears to be of no significance in the development of the teeth. It may possibly be the first uncalcified deposit of dentinal matrix. The Enamel.—The surface cells of the enamel-germ line the dental sac in the form of a tesselated or cubical epithelium (fig. 221, e). On the other hand the cells which lie next the surface of the pulp become elongated and attenuated into a prismatic shape, precisely like a columnar epithelium (d fig. 221). The central cells, Fig. 221.—A Section through the Enamel Organ and Dental Sac prom the Tooth op a Child at Birth (from Kolliker). 250 Diameters. a, outer dense layer of the dental sac ; b, inner looser texture of the same with capillary blood-vessels and a somewhat denser layer towards the enamel organ ; c, spongy substance ; d, inner cells ; and e, outer cellular layer of the enamel organ. VOL. II. Y