497 MINUTE STRUCTURE. ventricle ; and inferiorly, at the extremity of the conns mcdullaris, it becomes enlarged, shaped like the letter and extends backwards to the surface of the cord, being covered in only by pia mater and connective tissue. This canal, [though minute, is an object of con- siderable interest as a typical part of the structure of the cord, it being the permanent remains of the cavity of the cylinder formed by the spinal cord at the earliest period of its development. It is more distinctly ■■seen in fishes, reptiles, and birds than in mammals. MINUTE STRUCTUKE. The substance of the spinal cord consists of a large proportion of nervous substance, supported in a delicate framework of connective tissue, and containing numerous minute blood-vessels. The white matter presents nerve-fibres, but is almost destitute of nerve-cells ; the grey matter contains both elements. Connective tissue takes part in the structure of the cord to a very considerable extent. It forms a complete covering surrounding the white substance beneath the pia mater, and from this covering trabecule of connective tissue extend into the white substance (fig. 351, e, e). A narrow layer of gelatinous connective tissue lies upon the surface, fills up its inequalities, and sends prolongations with the fibrous septa. These, with the exception of those above described (p. 493), are irregular, and extend a variable depth into the cord, some reaching the grey substance. They divide and ramify, and their ultimate subdivisions are continuous with a peculiar delicate matrix in which the nerve fibres are embedded, and wdiich is termed by Yirchow the neuroglia. It contains many minute granule-like nuclei, and is supposed to be derived, in part at any rate, from peculiar changes in connective tissue cells (see p. 136). In the posterior median column the connective tissue is remarkably abundant. In the grey matter there is also much connec- tive tissue, especially in the immediate neighbourhood of the central canal. Whether the smallest cells of the grey substance are really nervous or belong to the connective tissue is still undecided, but it is ♦certain that many of the nuclei belong to the connective tissue. White substance.—The fibres are in greatest part longitudinal; the principal exceptions being those contained in the commissure, and in the roots of the nerves. The longitudinal fibres are finer in the poste- rior columns, and posterior parts of the lateral columns, than in other parts, and the deepest fibres are smaller than those placed more super- ficially. (Kolliker.) The larger fibres are about t^Vo incn ^n cua~ meter, the smaller are about -^th of that size. A few branching nerve- cells exist in the neighbourhood of the grey matter. Grey substance.—The fibres of the grey substance are for the most part not more than one-half the diameter of their continuations in the white substance and in the nerve-roots, but among them there are a few of larger size. They are very various in their direction,, and are arranged in a complete network, except those which are con- nected with the roots of the nerves, which pass in definite directions, arranged in compact groups. The fine network appears to be, in part, at any rate, composed of the fine branching processes of the nerve cells. The nerve-cells of the grey matter are of two kinds. Firstly, there are very large branched cells, from to of an inch in size, con- K K 2