GO CONNECTIVE TISSUE. in the healthy condition of the body. Thus it does not exist in the sub- cutaneous areolar tissue of the eyelids and penis, nor in the lungs, nor within the cavity of the cranium. Structure.—When subjected to the microscope, the adipose tissue (fig. 33) is seen to consist of small vesicles, filled with an oily matter, and for the most part lodged in the meshes of the areolar tissue. The vesicles are most commonly collected into little lobular clusters, and these again into the little lumps of fat which we see with the naked eye, and which in some parts are aggregated into round or irregular masses of considerable magnitude. Sometimes the vesicles, though grouped together, have less of a clustered arrangement ; as when they collect alongside of the minute blood-vessels of thin membranous parts. In well-nourished bodies the vesicles or fat-cells are round or oval, unless where packed closely together, in which case they acquire an angular figure, and bear a striking resemblance to the cells of vegetable tissues. The greater number of them are from ^-^th to B^th of an inch in diameter, but many exceed or fall short of this measurement. Each one consists of a very delicate envelope, inclosing the oily matter, which, completely filling the enve- lope, appears as a single drop. A nucleus is commonly present (fig. 34), but is usually obscured by the fatty matter. The envelope is the remains of the original protoplasm of the embryonic cell: it is gen- erally quite transparent and apparently homogeneous in structure. According to some authorities it consists of two parts, a delicate structureless external membrane, and a layer of finely granular protoplasm immediately surrounding the fat. Pig. 34.—Fat Cells from Rabbits' Omentum, showing Nucleus and Protoplasmic Envelope, with supporting Areolar Tissue between the Cells (Klein). Such is the normal condition, but in emaciated, dropsical, and old persons, the oily contents of the cells may become wholly or partially removed, in which case serous fluid may be found occupying its place, and then too the nucleus becomes apparent. The common fat of the human body consists essentially of palmitin, stearin and olein, which are the compounds of glycerine with palmitic, stearic and oleic acids respectively. These compounds, which are considered to be glycerine- ethers, contain three equivalents of the fatty acid to each equivalent of glyce- rine ; they have hence been termed tri-palmitin, tri-stearin, and tri-olein. The tri-olein, or liquid fat, holds the other two in solution ; and the varying consistency of animal fats depends on the relative proportion of the solid and liquid ingredients. During life the oily matter contained in the cells is liquid ; but the acicular crystalline spots which are sometimes seen after death indicate a partial solidification of one of its constituents. The fat being thus contained in closed cells, it will be readily understood why, though liquid or nearly so in the living body, it does not shift its place in obedience to pressure or gravitation, as happens with the water of dropsy and other fluids effused into the interstices of the areolar tissue ; such fluids, being unconfined, of course readily pass from one place to another through the open meshes. The areolar tissue connects and surrounds the larger lumps of fat,