STRUCTURE OF THE RETINA. 611 retina, a similar granular appearance, with a few scattered nuclei in its sub- stance, and in which, in the human retina and in that of most mammals, it is difficult to make out any definite structure. In the horse's retina, however, as Bivolta and others have shown, it is possible, in properly prepared and isolated portions of the layer, to ascertain the existence within it of flattened, irregular or stellate, finely branched, delicately granular cells to which the nuclei in question belong (fig. 421). The cell-offsets, which are excessively fine, form by repeated branching and union a close network or felt work throughout the layer, the substance of which is in this way formed by them. The nuclei of the cells are clear and distinct, each with a comparatively large nucleolus ; the fine fibres of the network are stated by Golgi and Manfredi to exhibit vari- cosities like nerve-fibrils, but according to Schwalbe the varicose fibrils in all probability do not actually form a part of the network but are intercalated in its meshes. It is, therefore, uncertain whether these cells are to be regarded as of a nervous nature themselves or merely as supporting structures for the true nervous elements. There is little doubt that a similar structure exists in mammalia generally. 6. Outer nuclear layer.—This (figs.419,422, G) resembles very closely at first sight the inner nuclear layer, appearing, like that, to consist of several strata of clear, oval or elliptical, nuclear corpuscles (outer gran- ules), from the ends of which delicate fibres are prolonged. They differ, however, essentially from the inner granules, and may be readily dis- tinguished from them. These outer granules are of two kinds, which present well-marked differences and are known respectively as the rod- granules and cone-granules, according as they are connected with the rods or with the cones of the next retinal layer. Those which are con- nected with the rods are, in most parts of the retina, by far the more numerous, and form the main thickness of the outer nuclear layer. They may be regarded as enlargements or swellings in the course of delicate fibres (rod-fibres), which extend from the inner ends of the rods at the membrana limitans externa through the thickness of this layer to the outer molecular layer. The enlargements, of which there is but one to a fibre, situate at any part of its course, are each occupied by an elliptical nucleus which is devoid of a nucleolus, but which, in the fresh condition, exhibits a remarkable cross-striped appearance (Henle), the strongly refracting substance which mainly composes it being inter- rupted by bands or disks of a clearer less retracting material, usually two in number, one on each side of the middle line (fig. 422), but occa- sionally single and median (see the left-hand one in fig. 422). The rod- fibres are of excessive fineness, and exhibit frequently minute varicosities in their course : each is directly continuous at the outer end with one of the rods, but at the inner end appears usually to terminate in a somewhat larger varicosity, from the margin of which exquisitely fine fibrils may, in some animals, be traced extending into the substance of the outer molecular layer. Those outer granules which are connected with the cones are, in most parts of the retina, much fewer in number than the rod- granules, from which they are distinguished by their shape, which is somewhat pyriform, by the absence of transverse striation, and by their position—for they occupy the part of the outer nuclear layer nearest the membrana limitans externa, and the larger end of each is thus in close proximity to the base of the corresponding cone, with which it is