712 UTEROGESTATION. arrival of the ovum in the uterus, corresponds closely with that which takes place at every successive menstrual period in the uterine membrane. This process consists essentially in a thickening or hyper- trophy of the lining membrane, and is mainly due to an extremely rapid proliferation of the subepithelial cells and fibro-cellular tissue, and an increased development of the blood-vessels and glands. Fig. 518. Fig. 518.—The Decidua opened AND VIEWED FROM BEFORE (after W. Hunter). This is a representation of the thickened membrane of the uterus thrown oft" as the product of abor- tion at a very early period of gesta- tion. A and b mark superiorly the passage of two bristles through the openings from the Fallopian tubes into the cavity of the uterus (cavity of the decidua), and inferiorly the exit of the bristles at the os uteri. In these three situations the torn edges are seen where the decidua has been separated from the con- tinuous part of the mucous mem- brane. At o, where an ovum has pro- bably been lodged, the inner part of the decidua is made to bulge towards the cavity of the uterus, and begins to form decidua reflexa. The formation of a com- plete decidua within the uterus has been observed in several cases in which, although the ovum was not discovered, or had not yet arrived in the uterus, there was reason to believe impregnation had occurred six or eight days previously. (Yon Baer, E. H. Weber.) And a similar condition has been observed in several examples of extra-uterine pregnancy (Hunter and others) ; from which il appears that the earlier changes connected with the formation of the decidua are independent of the pre&ence of the ovum in the uterus. When the ovum has been recently imbedded in the decidua, it forms a swelling or projection of the surface within the uterine cavity, on opening into which the villous chorion is found surrounded by the substance of the decidua or thickened mucous membrane ; but the covering of this substance which passes over the free surface of the ovum, or that which is towards the uterine cavity, is thinner and simpler in its structure than at the place of attachment of the ovum and in other parts of the uterine surface. The most projecting part or summit of the swelling formed by the imbedded ovum more especially is somewhat different from the rest, and indicates, by a sort of cicatricial mark, a place where the substance of the decidua, as it gradually covered in the ovum, may be supposed to have finally closed. The decidual thickening of the mucous membrane affects nearly equally the whole of the lining of the uterine cavity, but towards the