101 OSSIFICATION IN CARTILAGE. surface of ossification, and in which the primary cavities are seen to have coalesced into larger ones. A transverse section somewhat lower Fig. 60. Fig. 60.—Thin Longitudinal Section of the Growing End of the Shaft of the Metatarsal Bone of a Slink Calf, mag- nified. The upper part of the figure shows four groups of cartilage-cells, with calcified matrix between them forming the walls of four primary areola? filled as yet by the original cartilage-cells, except at the lower part, where these are re- placed by osteoblasts. Lower down are two oblong spaces (secondary or medullary cavities); one, indicated by d, is nearly filled by osteo- blasts and vessels, the other is vacant. The walls of these spaces are beginning to be lined with secondary osseous deposit, shown in the figure as a lighter layer, b, b, and b; c, c, and c, are corpuscles about to be imbedded in the ossifying substance and inclosed in lamina? ; g, a cartilage-cell of which the body has shrunk from the inside of the capsule (after H. Miiller and Kolliker). down, (fig. 61, b,) shows that they go on enlarging by further absorption and coalescence, and that their sides are thickened by layers of new bone ; this soon begins to be deposited (fig. 60, b, b, in longitudinal and 61, A, in cross section), and goes on increasing, (fig. 61, b). In the meantime the cartilage-cells have disappeared, and the bony cavities are filled with soft matter, in which there are a few fibres and numerous granular corpuscles re- sembling the osteoblasts seen in the intramembranous ossification ; there are also many blood-vessels. In the end, some of the enlarged cavities and open structure remain to form the cancellated tissue, but much of this structure is afterwards removed by absorption, to give place to the medullary canal of the shaft. In many of these cavities the walls of the coalesced primary areolae may long be distinguished, like little arches, forming by their union a sort of festooned outline, within which the new bony laminae are situated. The primary osseous matter forming the original thin walls of the areolae, and produced by calcification of the cartilaginous matrix, is decidedly granular, and has a dark appearance ; the subsequent or secondary deposit on the other hand is quite transparent, and of a uniform, homogeneous aspect. This secondary deposit begins to cover the granular bone a very short distance (about ith of an inch) below the surface of ossification, and, as already stated, increases in thick- ness further down. The lacunae first appear in this deposit; there are none in the primary granular bone. The cartilage-cells do not become calcified. According to H. Miiller the capsules are opened by absorption, and the granular bodies con- tained within them ( i.e. the proper cell-bodies) produce by fissiparous multiplication