THE OSSEOUS LABYRINTH. 641 ovalis. The small superficial petrosal nerve (fig. 451, 20) also enters at the fore part of the cavity beneath the canal for the tensor tympani. The tensor tympani muscle obtains its nerve from the otic ganglion ; the laxator tympani is said to be supplied by the chorda tympani: and the stapedius is figured by Sommerring as receiving a filament from the facial nerve. The chorda tympani is invested by a tubular reflection of the lining- membrane of the tympanum ; its course across the cavity has already been described. THE INTERNAL EAR, OR LABYRINTH. The inner, essential part of the organ of hearing, is contained in the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It consists of a complex cavity— the osseous labyrinth—hollowed out of the bone, and containing the membranous labyrinth. The osseous labyrinth is incompletely divided into three parts, named the vestibule (fig. 452, 1), the semicircular canals (3, 4, 5), and the cochlea (G, 7). They are lined throughout by a thin periosteal cover- ing, within which there is a clear fluid named perilymph, or liquor Cotunnii. The membranous labyrinth being distinctly smaller than the bony labyrinth, a space is left between the two, occupied by the perilymph just referred to. The membranous structure supports minute ramifica- tions of the auditory nerve, and encloses a fluid named the endolymph. THE OSSEOUS LABYRINTH. The vestibule forms a central chamber of the labyrinth, which communicates in front with the cochlea, behind with the semicircular 'canals, on the outer side with the cavity of the tympanum, and on the inner side with the meatus auditorius interims. It is irregularly ovoidal in shape from before backwards, and is slightly flattened or compressed from without inwards : except in the last-mentioned direc- tion, in which it is somewhat smaller, it measures about -|th of an inch in diameter. The outer wall, which separates it from the cavity of the tympanum, is perforated by the fenestra ovalis, which in the recent state is closed by the base of the stapes. At the fore part of the inner wall is a small round pit, the fovea kemispherica (fig. 453, 2), pierced with many small holes, which serve to transmit branches of the auditory nerve from the internal auditory meatus. This fossa is limited behind by a vertical ridge named crista vestibuli, or emine.ntia pyramidalis. Behind the crest is the small oblique opening of a canal, the aqueduct of the vestibule (fig. 453, 4), which extends to the posterior surface of the petrous bone. In the roof is an oval depression, placed somewhat transversely,/bmz hemi-elliptica (fig. 453, 1), the inner part of which is separated by the crest from the hemispherical fossa. At the back part of the vestibule are five round apertures, leading into the semicircular canals : and at the lower and fore part of the cavity is a larger opening, which communicates with the scala vestibuli of the cochlea—apertura scalce vestibuli. The semicircular canals are three bony tubes, situate above and T T 2