STRUCTURE OF THE SPLEEN. 401 undergoes important changes in the passage ; in this respect resembling the lymph as it passes through the lymphatic glands. Two modifications which are probably effected in it may be here pointed out. In the first place the lymphoid tissue ensheathing the arteries, together with that composing the Malpighian corpuscles, would appear, like the same tissue in the lymphatic glands and other parts, to be the seat of the production of pale blood corpuscles. At the circumference of this tissue, these may pass into the interstices of the pulp, and so get into the blood. It is found, in fact, that the blood of the splenic vein is extremely rich in pale corpuscles. In the second place, red blood-corpuscles would appear to be taken into the interior of the pulp-cells, their colouring matter being transformed into pigment, which is then probably carried to the liver by the splenic vein, to be eliminated with the bile (Kolliker). Splenic cells have, in fact, been noticed, when examined on the warm stage, to take red corpuscles, which were in contact with them, into their interior. Fig. 285. Fig. 285.—Thin Section of Spleen-pulp, highly magnified, showing the Mode of Origin of a Small Vein. Chromic acid Preparation. v, the vein, filled with blood-corpuscles, which are in continuity with others, bl, filling up the interstices of the retiform tissue of the pulp. At p the blood-corpuscles have been omitted from the figure, and the branched cells are better seen ; w, wall of the vein. The small shaded bodies amongst the red blood-corpuscles are pale corpuscles. The lymphatics of the spleen are described as forming two systems, a trabe- cular and a peri-vascular. The vessels belonging to the former run in the trabecule and are in communication with a superficial net-work in the capsule. The peri-vascular take origin in the interstices of the lymphoid tissue which ensheaths the smaller arteries, and forms the Malpighian corpuscles ; they do not, therefore, at first form distinct vessels. When these are seen they commonly Tun in pairs, one on either side of an artery, uniting over it by frequent anastomoses, and sometimes partially or wholly enclosing it. At the hilus the two sets of lymphatics join and proceed along the gastrosplenic omentum to the neighbouring lymphatic glands. The nerves, derived from the solar plexus, surround and accompany tho splenic artery and its branches. They have been traced by Remak deeply into the interior of the organ. The following works on the spleen may be referred to :—Gray, Structure and Use of the Spleen, 1851 ; Busk and Huxley on the Malpighian Bodies, in the Sydenham Society's translation of Kolliker's Histology ; also Huxley, in Micro. Jour., ii., p. 71; Billroth, in Zeitschrift f. Wiss. Zoologie, xi; W. Miiller, Ueber d. fein. Ban der Milz, 1865, and in Strieker's Handbook ; Stieda, in Virch. Arch., xxiv. ; Schweigger-Seidel, Virch. Arch, xxvii. ; Tomsa, Wiener Sitzungsb, xlviii. ; Kyber, Arch. f. Mikr. Anat., vi. d d 2