DEVELOPMENT OF THE FOETAL MEMBRANES. 700 wall of the trunk in two determinate places, whch are nearly the same in all vertebrate animals, and receiving prolongations of the bones, muscles, nerves, and blood-vessels corresponding to a certain number of the vertebral somatomes in the situation of the anterior and posterior limbs respectively. 2. EXTRA-EMBRYONIC PHENOMENA OP DEVELOPMENT OP THE OVUM. Foetal Membranes.—While the changes before described in the central part of the blastoderm lead to the formation of the rudiments of the embryo, there are simultaneously developed in its peripheral parts, or extended into them from within, certain membranes which lie external to the body of the embryo, but are for a time more or less organically connected with it by the original continuity of the blasto- dermic elements in which both sets of parts originate. Of these membranes, the yolk-sac exists in all vertebrate animals ; the amnion and allantois are common to birds and mammals, but are absent in amphibia and fishes ; and the chorion, in the sense in which the name will be employed here, may be considered as peculiar to mammals. The Yolk-sac.—This name is given to an organised and vascular covering formed by the extension of the layers of the blastoderm over the surface of the yolk within the original vitelline membrane. In human embryology it has also received the name of mribilical vesicle. It consists originally of all the layers of the blastoderm, and in fishes and amphibia retains these throughout the whole term of development*; Fig. 512.—Diagrammatic Sections op the Ovum in different stages of develop- ment to snow the progress of formation of the membranes (from Kolliker). 1. Ovum in which the chorion has begun to be formed, with the blastoderm and rudi- ment of the embryo within. 2. Ovum in which the cephalic and caudal folds have con- tracted the umbilical aperture towards the yolk-sac, and the amniotic folds are turning towards the dorsal aspect. 3. The amniotic folds being completed have met in the dorsal region ; the umbilical opening is more contracted, and the allantois has begun to sprout. 4. The true amnion is detached from the reflected or false amnion which has disappeared or combined with the chorion ; the cavity of the amnion is more distended ; the yolk-sac is now pediculated, the allantois projects into the space between amnion, chorion, and yolk-sac, and the villi of the chorion begin to ramify. 5. The ovum when it has become embedded in the uterine decidua ; the yolk-sac (umbilical vesicle) is now connected to the foetus by a long duct, the amnion is increased in volume ; the allantois remains only as a pediculated vesicle towards the attachment of the short umbilical cord to the part of the chorion where the placenta is about to be formed. The vascular layer of the allantois Las now combined with the chorion, the villi of which have undergone further development. d, vitelline membrane or primitive chorion ; d', commencing villi of the chorion ; sp, epiblast; sz, villi of the chorion more advanced ; ch, permanent chorion with which the vascular layer of the allantois is combined ; ch, z, true vascular villi of the chorion ; am, amnion ; ah, its cavity ; Is, cephalic fold ; ss, caudal fold of the amnion ; a, the embryonal rudiment in the epiblast; m, that in the hypoblast or mesoblast ; st, margin of the vascular area in its early stages ; dd, hypoblast ; kh, hollow of the vesicular blastoderm, becoming afterwards ds, the hollow of the yolk-sac ; dg, ductus vitello- intestinalis ; al, allantois ; e, embryo ; v, original space between amnion and chorion ; rZ, wall of the thorax in the region of the heart ; hh, pericardial cavity. * The batrachia seem to be an exception to this statement, but only in consequence of the yolk sac being so extremely limited that it merges in the intestine itself. The yolk- sac and primitive intestine are in fact combined together, there being no umbilical con- striction between them.