INTERNAL PARTS. 551 matter, viz., phosphate and carbonate of lime, with a little phosphate of magnesia and ammonia (Stromeycr). It is found at all ages, fre- quently in young children, and sometimes even in the foetus. It cannot, therefore, be regarded as the product of disease. Beneath the peduncle of the pineal gland, is a collection of grey matter distinct from the rest of the thalamus and called the ganglion of the peduncle of the pineal gland (ganglion of the habenula). Fibres arise from it and pass clown to the crus. This sabulous matter is frequently found on the outside of the pineal body, or even deposited upon its peduncles. It is found also in the choroid plexuses ; and scattered corpora amylacea occur in other parts of the membranes of the brain. Huschke has pointed out that the pineal body is larger in the child and the female than in the adult male. In the brains of other mammals it is propor- tionally larger than in the human subject, and less loaded with the matter of acervulus cerebri. Whether the pineal gland consists of nerve-tissue is still uncertain. Meynert regards it as one of the centres for the fibres of the crus, but Henle and others consider that it resembles most the supra-renal capsules. The corpora or tuber cula quadrigemina are four rounded emi- nences, separated by a crucial depression, and placed two on each side of the middle line, one pair before the other. They are connected with the back of the optic thalami, and with the cerebral peduncles at either side; and they are placed above the passage leading from the third to the fourth ventricle. The upper or anterior tubercles (nates) are somewhat larger and darker in colour than the posterior {testes). In the adult, both pairs are solid, and are composed of white substance on the surface, and of grey matter within. (See p. 563.) They receive bands of white fibres from below, the majority of which are derived from the fillet (see p. 556). A white cord also passes up on each side from the cerebellum to the corpora quadrigemina, and is continued onwards to the thalami: these two white cords are the pro- cessus a cerebello ad cerebrum, or superior peduncles of the cerebellum. At each side of the corpora quadrigemina there proceed outwards two white bands, prominent on the surface and sometimes named anterior and posterior brachia. The fibres of the anterior pass to the thalamus opticus, the inner corpus geniculatum, and the optic tract; those of the .posterior to the inner corpus geniculatum and the crus cerebri. Ac- cording to Meynert, many of their fibres pass directly to the cortical substance of the hemisphere. In the human brain the quadrigeminal bodies are small in comparison with those of animals. In ruminant, soliped, and rodent animals, the anterior tuber- cles are much larger than the posterior, as may be seen in the sheep, horse, and rabbit; and hence the name nates, formerly applied to the anterior, and testes to the posterior tubercles. In the brains of carnivora, the posterior tubercles are rather the larger. In the foetus of man and mammals these eminences are at first single on each side, and have an internal cavity communicating with the ventri- cles. They are constant in the brains of all vertebrate animals ; but in fishes, reptiles, and birds, in which animals they receive the name of optic lobes, they are only two in number, and hollow : in marsupialia and inonotremata, they are also two in number, but are solid. Optic tracts and corpora geniculata.—The optic tracts, which have already been referred to in connection with the base of the cere-