362 THE SMALL INTESTINE. part by a single vein, which in man commences near the tip of the villus, and passes through the mucous membrane into the submucosa without receiving lateral twigs.* The lacteal lies in the centre of the villus (figs. 256, 257), and is in the smaller villi usually a single vessel, with a closed and somewhat expanded extremity, and of considerably larger diameter than the capillaries of the blood-vessels around. According to the observations of Teichmann, there are never more than two intercommunicating lacteals in a single villus in the human subject; but both he and Frey found a copious network in the villi of the sheep. Like the lymphatics elsewhere, the lacteals in the villi are bounded by a delicate layer of flattened epithelioid cells. These are connected with the branched cells of the retiform tissue, and these again with the flattened cells which form the basement membrane ; from the latter, prolongations extend between the epithelium cells towards the surface. Fig. 258. A B Fig. 258.—Epithelium op the Intestinal Villus op a Rabbit (from Kolliker). A, 3-2-° ; B, 3=°- A, series of the columnar epithelial cells separated from a villus ; a cuticular mem- brane or border is seen passing over the free ends of the cells. B, some of the same cells showing the striation of the border. The columnar epithelium cells (fig. 258), which cover not only the villi but also the rest of the surface of the intestine, and extend into the tubular glands (fig. 259) are granular in appearance; each with a clear oval nucleus and a tapering extremity next the basement membrane. At the free or superficial end they present a distinct layer of highly refracting substance with vertical strias running through it. This layer was first recognised by Kolliker and by Funke, who both considered the strias to represent minute perforating canals ; while Brettauer and Steinach, and likewise Henle, maintained them to be solid rods. The cells for the most part contain mucus, which swells up on the addition of water, transforming them into goblet-cells (see p. 211). There has been considerable question as to the manner in which fatty matters, which are of course indiffusible through the moist animal membranes, find their way from the interior of the gut into the com- mencement of the lacteals. It was formerly believed that the minute fatty globules were conveyed into the interior of the villus by the medium of the columnar epithelium cells of the surface, and in accord- ance with this both Kolliker and Bonders have described minute par- ticles of oil as passing through the striated base of the cells. More- over, during digestion, the epithelial cells become turbid with minute oil-droplets in their interior ; and at a subsequent stage the tissue of the villus generally appears pervaded with similar fatty par- * The general arrangement of the vascular supply of the villi varies considerably in different animals.