FIVE PRIMARY DIVISIONS OF THE BRAIN. 753 There are thus distinguished the rudiments of five fundamental constituents of the brain, under which it will be found convenient to bring the notice of the development of the several parts forming the full grown organ, and which may in this association be shortly enume- rated as follows, vi#. :— 1. The cerebral hemispheres, with their ventricular hollows or lateral ventricles, the corpora striata, and the olfactory lobes,—a set of parts to which, as a whole, the name of procerebrum or prosencephalon may be given. Fig. 554. / 1 f Fig. 554.—Sketches op the early form OP THE PARTS OP THE CEREBRO-SPINAL Axis in the Human Embryo (after Tiedernann). A, at the seventh week, lateral view ; 1, spinal cord ; 2, medulla oblongata ; 3, cerebellum ; 4, mesencephalon ; 5, 6, 7, cerebrum. B, at the ninth week, pos- terior view; 1, medulla oblongata; 2, cerebellum ; 3, mesencephalon ; 4, 5, tha- lami optici and cerebral hemispheres. C and D, lateral and posterior views of the brain of the human embryo at twelve weeks, a, cerebrum; b, corpora quadri- gemina ; c, cerebellum ; d, medulla ob- longata ; the thalami are now covered by the enlarged hemispheres. E, posterior view of the same brain dissected to show the deeper parts. 1, medulla oblongata ; 2, cerebellum ; 3, corpora quadrigemina ; 4, thalami optici; 5, the hemisphere turned aside ; 6, the corpus striatum embedded in the hemisphere ; 7, the commencement of the corpus callosum. F, the inner side of the right half of the same brain sepa- rated by a vertical median section, show- ing the central or ventricular cavity. 1, 2, the spinal cord and medulla oblongata, still hollow ; 3, bend at which the pons Varolii is formed ; 4, cerebellum ; 5, lamina (superior cerebellar peduncles) passing up to the corpora quadrigemina ; 6, crura •cerebri ; 7, corpora quadrigemina, still hollow ; 8, third ventricle ; 9, infundibu- lum ; 10, thalamus, now solid ; 11, optic nerve ; 12, aperture leading into the lateral ventricle ; 13, commencing corpus callosum. 2. The thalamencephalon with its cavity or third ventricle, the primary ocular pedicles, and the infundibulum. 3. The mesencephalon, which is the same with the original middle vesicle, and comprises the corpora quadrigemina and crura cerebri with its contracted internal hollow, the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum of human anatomy. 4. The next part in succession is the cerebellum, along with which is included the pons Varolii and the fourth ventricle. 5. The hinder part, which passes into the spinal marrow, is the medulla oblongata, with the continuation of the medullary cavity in the fourth ventricle and into the central spinal canal. In these five fundamental parts or rudiments of the brain, arising out 3 c 2