DEVELOPMENT OF THE URO-GENITAL ORGANS. •312 organ representing the clitoris or penis. Into this prominence the urogenital groove runs forward, and surrounding the prominence in front, and continued downwards on each side of the urogenital opening, there is a raised ridge of integument, which is the foundation of the future labia majora in the female, and of the two halves of the scrotum in the male. The description of the later changes which occur in these parts in the development of fuller sexual differences will be given hereafter. Here it will be sufficient to state their general nature. In embryoes which are assuming the male type, the common eminence becomes gradually longer, more cylindrical and deeply grooved along its lower surface. The lateral ridges of the urogenital opening become united from behind forwards along the middle line, and this union is gradually continued into the ridges of the groove below the penis, so as to enclose a canal which becomes the urethra with its tegumental and spongy vascular coverings, and to form below this the scrotum, in which the raphe is the remains of the median union of the integument. In female embryoes, on the other hand, the cylindrical eminence remains comparatively small, and the groove along its lower surface widens into two folds, forming the labia minora or mjmphae; while the larger lateral integumental folds, retaining their prominence and remain- ing separate, constitute the labia majora. The groove is not closed, but widened and shortened so as to become the vulva, while more deeply the sinus urogenitalis shortens itself considerably so as to form the limited atrium vagina, into which open the urethra from the urinary bladder and the now united lower portion of Midler's ducts forming the vagina. From the previous statement, it appears that both the urinary and the reproductive organs take their origin in symmetrical pairs from the intermediate cell-masses of the mesoblast, which are situated to the out- side at first, and subsequently below, the protovertebral columns. The earliest formed of these organs are the Wolffian bodies, by which the others are all intimately connected together in their development, so as to form one great system. It further appears that, while the urinary organs are developed in an entirely similar manner in all embryoes, there are in the sexual organs certain departures from the common type "by which the peculiarities of the male and female are established. The general plan of development of these organs having been previously described, the history of the process will now be completed by an account of the further changes which they undergo. FURTHER HISTORY OF THE DEVELOPMENT OP THE UROGENITAL ORGANS. The Kidneys and their Ducts.—These organs are developed together from a mass of formative cells situated posteriorly on the dorsal aspect of the Wolffian bodies, their first hollows being formed as diverticula from the Wolffian duct. The formative blastema of the kidney, as observed by Rathke in the foetal calf, soon contains a series of club-shaped bodies which have their larger ends free and turned outwards, and their smaller ends or pedicles directed inwards towards the future hilus, where they are blended together. As the organ grows these bodies increase in number, and finally, becoming hollow, form the villiferous tubes. At first, short, wide, and dilated at their extremities, the tubuli soon become elongated, narrow, and fiexuous, occupying the whole mass of the kidney, which then appears to consist of cortical substance only. At a subsequent period, the tubuli nearest