112 MUSCULAR TISSUE. in the latter case taking place longitudinally instead of transversely: accordingly, he considers that the fibrillar have no existence as such in the fibre, any more than the disks; but that both the one and the other owe their origin to the regular arrangement of the particles of the fibre (sarcous elements) longitudinally and transversely, whereby, on the application of a severing force, it cleaves in the one or in the other direction into regular segments. Kolliker, on the other hand, holds to the opinion that the fibrils pre-exist as such, and that they are of essentially the same nature from end to end of the fibre, the alternating dark and light parts being due to differences in optical characters merely: he describes them as being collected into definite bundles (which make up a fibre), termed by him " muscle-columns." It is difficult, however, on account of the extreme delicacy of the elements composing it and the readiness with which changes occur in them, to make out, with the means at present at our command, the exact structure of the mammalian muscular fibre ; and, to endeavour to attain to a satisfactory knowledge of the subject, histologists have therefore largely availed themselves of the facilities afforded by the muscular fibres of the arthropoda, and especially of the water- beetle, which are quite similar in appearance and character, but in which the elements are relatively large, these fibres, moreover, are readily obtained in a perfectly unaltered and still contractile condition. Such muscular fibres, when examined, without the addition of any fluid, under a high power of the microscope, in what may be considered their typical condition, present, like mammalian muscle, the appear- ance of alternate dim and bright stripes crossing the fibre. Each dim stripe is seen to be pervaded by a series of minute rod-shaped particles set side by side, with their axes parallel to that of the fibre (fig. 68). Crossing the fibre in the middle of each of the bright stripes a double row of dots (c) is apparent ; and on close inspection it may be seen that each rod-shaped particle of the dim stripe is traceable at each end into one of the dots of the bright stripe: the dots consequently are merely the knobbed ends of the rod- shaped particles. In this way the whole fibre is pervaded by these minute rods (muscle-rods, d ). The muscle-rods refract the light more strongly than the rest of the mus- cular substance, and hence appear somewhat darker; like that sub- stance, they are probably of a soft and yielding nature. Now it can be shown that a linear series of strongly refracting sphe- roids, like the enlarged ends of the muscle-rods, must necessarily have the effect, when viewed by trans- mitted light, of producing a bright band, due to diffraction, on Fig. 68.—Living Muscle of Water- beetle (Dytiscus marginalis), highly magnified. s, sarcolemnia ; a, dim stripe ; b, bright stripe ; c, rows of dots in bright stripe which are seen to be the knobbed heads of d, muscle rods.