692 GENEEAL PHENOMENA OF EMBRYONIC DEVELOPMENT. is situated the medullary cavity or common ventricle of the brain and! spinal marrow. There is at first no distinction between the medullary or nervous structure and the containing walls: these last, including the dura-matral sheath, are derived later from development of meso- blastic elements. In birds and mammals it does not appear that there is at first any line of separation or distinction between the medullary part and the rest of the epiblast, but in tatrachia a difference of colour in the corneous layer marks a distinction between it and the deeper part which forms the medullary rudiments. The Notochord.—One of the next steps in early development as observed in the bird is the formation from, a central columnar portion of the mesoblast of an axial cord occupying the future place of the bodies of the vertebras and basis of the cranium. This constitutes the notochord or chorda dorsalis (see fig. 504 and sections in figs. 502 and 503, ch). Fig. 502.—Transverse Sec- tion THROUGH THE Em- bryo of the chick ani> Blastoderm at the end of the First Day (from Kolliker). 7i, epiblast; dd, hypoblast; sp, mesoblast ; Pv, primitive or medullary groove ; m, medullary plates ; ch, chorda dorsalis ; uwp, primordial vertebral plate; uwh, commencement of division of mesoblast into its upper and lower lamina? ; between Rf and h the dorsal lamina? or ridges which by their approximation close in the medullary canal. Its structure is simply cellular, and it takes no direct part in the formation of the bodies of the vertebras or cranial basis, but comes later to be surrounded by the formative substance out of which these parts of the skeleton are developed. In mammals and in cartilaginous fishes its formation appears to be later than in birds. In man and the higher vertebrates its remains are to be seen for a longer or shorter period of foetal life within the cranio-vertebral osseous axis, but in the lowest vertebrates, as AmpMoxus and Cyclostomatous fishes, in which the ♦ Fig. 503. Fig. 503.—Transverse Section through the Embryo of the Chick and Blasto- derm on the Second Day (from Kolliker). d d, hypoblast ; ch, chorda dorsalis ; u w, primordial vertebrae ; m r, medullary plates ; h, corneous layer or epiblast ; u w h, cavity of the primordial vertebral mass ; on p, mesoblast dividing at into hp I, somatopleure, and d f, splanchnopleure % ii n g, Wolffian duct.