576 VESSELS OF BRAIN AND CORD. On a careful examination of the connections of these bodies it will be found that the elevations found on the outer surface of the dura mater and within the longitudinal sinus, in no instance take origin in those positions, but that they are grape-like bodies which are attached more deeply, and in their growth have perforated the dura mater. Their pre- cise origin and nature were long the subject of conflicting opinions, but it has been satisfactorily shown by Luschka that they are only an en- larged condition of normal villi of the arachnoid, and that no other structure is involved in their formation. On each side of the sinus, and communicating with it, are large venous spaces in the dura mater ; into these the villi project even in new-born animals, and those which per- forate the dura mater and appear on the surface have their inner parts in such spaces. Each villus is covered by an epitheliated membrane, continuous with the arachnoid. Outside this is another fine membranous sheath, proceeding from the dura mater, and the interval between the two is continuous with the subdural space. Within the villus is a spongy trabecular tissue, continuous with the subarachnoid tissue, and of similar structure. (lAischka, in Midler's Archiv. 1852; and "Die Adergeflechte des Menschlichen Gehirns," 1855. See also Cleland " On Tumours of the Dura Mater, &c." in the Glasgow Medical Journal, 1863. Axel Key and Ketzius, Nordiskt Med. Arkiv. 1870—1874, and Virchow's Jahresbericht.) BLOOD-VESSELS OP THE BRAIN AND SPIRAL CORD. The origin and course of these vessels have already been described in the Section Angeiology. In passing to their distribution the several arteries, having passed across the arachnoid cavity, enter the sub- arachnoid space and then divide and subdivide into branches, which, in their farther ramification in the nervous centres, are supported by the pia mater, and, it may be remarked, are more deeply placed in the various fissures and sulci than the small veins, which do not accompany the arteries, but pursue a different course and are seen upon the surface of the pia mater. Moreover, it is to be observed that, whilst the main branches of the arteries are situated at the base of the brain, the principal veins tend towards the upper surface of the hemispheres, where they enter the superior and inferior longitudinal sinuses : the veins of Galen, how- ever, coming from the lateral ventricles and choroid plexuses, run back- wards to the straight sinus. BLOOD SUPPLY OF THE BEAIN. It may be convenient here to recapitulate the sources of the blood-supply to the several parts of the encephalon. The medulla oblongata and Pons Varolii are supplied by branches from the anterior spinals, the vertebrals, the basilar and the posterior cerebrals. The branches enter the pons and medulla in two sets, lateral or radicular, and median, —the latter passing" in the septum to the grey matter on the upper surface. Cerebellum.—The under surface is supplied by the posterior inferior cere- bellar arteries from the vertebrals, and the anterior inferior from the basilar. The upper surface is supplied chiefly by the superior cerebellar arteries from the basilar : its posterior portion from the< posterior inferior cerebellar. Cerebrum.— Convolutions, outer surface, frontal lobe.—The superior frontal and anterior two-thirds of the middle frontal convolution, with the upper ex- tremity of the ascending- frontal, are supplied by the anterior cerebral. The