THE ARACHNOID. 573 brane. It passes over the various eminences and depressions on the cerebrum and cerebellum, without dipping down into the sulci and smaller fissures. Beneath it, between it and the pia mater, is a space (subarachnoid space) in which is a considerable quantity of fluid (sub- arachnoid fluid). The outer surface of the arachnoid is in contact with the smooth inner surface of the dura mater, the epithelium upon which has been regarded as a parietal layer of the arachnoid, closely united with the dura mater. At certain recesses, and near the longitudinal sinus, a small amount of loose connective tissue beneath the epithelium may be distinguished from the dense fibres of the dura mater. With this epithelium the arachnoid membrane (or visceral layer, as it was termed) has been thought to be continuous at the various foramina, the two thus con- stituting a closed sac similar to that of the pleura. But since the inner surface of the dura mater in the greater part of its extent does not present any distinct tissue which can be regarded as an attached mem- brane, Kolliker, Henle, and others consider that there is no justification for the assumption of a parietal layer of the arachnoid. Moreover recent investigations into the relation between the arachnoid and dura mater on the nerve roots as they leave the cranio-vertebral cavity have shown that there is no such reflection of the arachnoid on to the dura mater as had been supposed. (Axel Key and Retzius). The subarachnoid space is wider and more evident in some posi- tions than in others. Thus, in the longitudinal fissure, the arachnoid does not descend to the bottom, but passes across, immediately below the edge of the falx, at a little distance above the corpus callosum. In the interval thus left, the arteries of the corpus callosum run backwards along that body. At the base of the brain and in the spinal canal there is a wide interval between the arachnoid and the pia mater. In the base of the brain, this subarachnoid space extends in front over the pons and the interpeduncular recess as far forwards as the optic nerves, and behind it forms a considerable interval between the cerebellum and the back of the medulla oblongata. In the spinal canal it surrounds the cord, being there of considerable extent. It is occupied, in both brain and cord, by trabecular and thin membranous extensions of ■delicate connective tissue, connected on the one hand with the arachnoid, and on the other with the pia mater. This tissue is most abundant where the space between the two membranes is least. It is dense in the neighbourhood of the vessels, and is continuous with the tissue of their walls. The subarachnoid space communicates with the ventricles of the brain by means of the foramen of Magendie, the opening into the lower part of the fourth ventricle, through the membrane which closes it (p. 513). Two other openings through this membrane exist, one on each side, behind the upper roots of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve into the pouch-like extension of the membrane beneath 'the flocculus (Mierzejewsky). A certain quantity of fluid is contained between the arachnoid mem- brane and the dura mater; but it has been shown by Magendie that the chief part of the cerebro-spinal fluid is lodged in the subarachnoid space in the meshes of the trabecular tissue. The ligamentum denticulatum divides the spinal subarachnoid space into anterior and posterior portions. Magendie also pointed out the