TEXTURE AND CONSISTENCE. 271 AVEKAGE IN TWENTY-FIVE MALES AND THIRTEEN FEMALES.—(EEID AND HUTCHINSON.) MALE. FEMALE. Proportionate weight of the lungs to the body . . 1 to 37 . . 1 to 43 The size and cubical dimensions of the lungs are influenced so much by their state of inflation, and are therefore so variable, that no useful application can be made of many of the statements given as to these measui'ements. It is im- portant, however, to ascertain the quantity of air which they contain under different conditions. This subject has been investigated by many inquirers, whose statements on this point, however, are exceedingly various. The volume of ah' contained in the lungs after a forced expiration, was found by G-rehant to be about 57 cubic inches. After an ordinary expiration it would seem that about as much more is retained in the chest. The amount of ah' inhaled and expelled in ordinary breathing has been very differently estimated by different observers ; it is most probably about 30 cubic inches. According to the extensive researches of Hutchinson, men of mean height, between five and six feet, after an extreme inspiration, expel from the chest, by a forced expiration, on an average, 225 cubic inches of ah, at a temperature of 60°. This quantity is called by Hutchinson the vital capacity of the lungs. It would be better termed extreme differential capacity. If to it be added the average quantity found by Grehant to be re- tained in the lungs after complete expiration, the result will yield 282 cubic inches of air at 60°, as the average total capacity of the respiratory organs for air in an adult male of ordinary height. The vital capacity (or difference between extreme expiration and extreme in- spiration) was found by Hutchinson to bear a uniform relation to the height of the individual, increasing at the rate of eight cubic inches for every additional inch of stature above five feet; but this relation is affected by the weight and age of the individual, as well as by the posture of the body. It seems to depend rather on the mobility than the size of the chest. (Hutchinson, in Journal of Statistical Society, August, 1844 ; and in Medico-Chirurg. Transactions, vol. xxix., 1846 ; also in the article " Thorax," in Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology, and the article " Respiration," by Reid, in the same.) Texture and consistence.—The substance of the lung is of a light porous spongy texture, and, when healthy, is buoyant in water : but in the foetus, before respiration has taken place, and also in certain cases of congestion, collapse, or consolidation from disease, the entire lungs, or portions of them, sink in that fluid. The specific gravity of a healthy lung, as found after death, varies from 0*345 to 0*746. When the lung is fully distended its specific gravity is 0*126, whilst that of the pulmonary substance, entirely deprived of air, is 1*056 (Krause). When pressed between the fingers, the lungs impart a crepitant sensation, which is accompanied by a peculiar noise, both effects being caused by the air contained in the tissue. On cutting into the lung, the same crepitation is heard, and there exudes from the cut surface a reddish frothy fluid, which is partly mucus from the air-tubes and air-cells, and partly a serous exudation, tinged with blood, and rendered frothy by the admixed air. The pulmonary tissue is endowed with great elasticity, in conse- quence of which the lungs collapse to about one-third of their bulk when the thorax is opened. Owing to this elasticity also, the lungs, if artificially inflated out of the body, contract to their previous volume when the air is again allowed to escape. Colour.—In infancy the lungs are of a pale rose-pink colour, which might be compared to blood-froth ; but as life advances they become darker, and are mottled or variegated with spots, patches, and streaks VOL II. T