716 UTEROGESTATION. that when it subsequently enlarges it carries with it, or there is formed round it a covering of the membrane, the substance of which is at the same time undergoing a rapid decidual development, and that this substance continuing to grow with the ovum and expanding with it, constitutes the decidua reflexa. The entire similarity of the structure of the decidua reflexa at its base with that of the decidua vera is in favour of the view that it owes its origin to a similar mode of production. The formation of the decidua is, as has already been stated, to be attributed mainly to a great increase in the development of the sub- epithelial tissue. Its substance, accordingly, consists in great measure of the cells, round and spindle-shaped, and cell-fibres which belong- to that tissue ; but these are mingled with much larger irregularly- formed multi-nuclear cells, which increase in number as pregnancy advances, and which are peculiarly characteristic of the structure of the outer layers of the decidua. The blood-vessels and the glands of the mucous membrane also undergo great enlargement and modification. The whole of the decidua vera and the basilar part of the reflexa are at first penetrated by blood-vessels derived from those of the uterus, more especially in the latter part of the second and first half of the third months, when the decidual structure may be considered as having reached its highest degree of development. After this time the blood-vessels of the decidua reflexa, and later those of the whole lining decidua of the uterus, except in the immediate vicinity of the placenta, shrink and ultimately disappear, so that the united decidua becomes in the end wholly non-vascular. The same retrograde process, or atrophy and disappearance, occurs in the blood-vessels of the chorionic villi by which the decidua reflexa is penetrated, and, although the villi themselves never entirely disappear, but may be traced even in the advanced stages of pregnancy as sparse and shrivelled irregular arborescent processes, the blood-vessels very soon begin to shrink and disappear from all the villi which do not form part of the placental structure. The uterine glands also become enlarged during the development of the decidua, being both elongated in their deeper convoluted portions, which are directed towards the muscular wall of the uterus, and under- going a peculiar change not yet fully understood, in the parts next their openings on the inner surface. Over the surface of the whole decidua vera, as it lines the uterine cavity, and also on the decidua reflexa, except at its most projecting part, a number of irregular pits are visible to the naked eye, which are frequently so numerous as to give the membrane a reticulated or sieve-like appearance (cups of Montgomery). These pits are really the uterine glands enlarged and altered soon after the commencement of pregnancy, as first clearly shown by Sharpey (Midler's Physiology by Baly, 1842, p. 1579), and the fact has since been observed by others (Kolliker, Coste). The villi embedded in the decidua do not, however, occupy the cavities of these pits, but so far as yet ascertained, are rather sunk in the inter- glandular hypertrophied substance of the decidua between them (Schroder van der Kolk, Kolliker, and Priestley. See the lectures by the latter " On the Development of the Gravid Uterus," 1860, p. 24). Upon the more exact relation of the villi to the uterine glands in the placenta, further remarks will be made hereafter.