GERM-SEGMENTATION IN MAMMALS AND BIRDS. 679' observers even previous to its commencement, there may be seen within each mass a small clear space similar to a nucleus. To these precursors of nuclei the name of Nasticle has been given. In the next stage each of the two first segments becomes cleft so as now to form four (c), each one of these having its clear spherule or nucleus within ; a third division resolves the masses into eight, of like composition with those which preceded them (d), the segments becoming of less and less size in successive stages, as meanwhile the bulk of the ovum as a whole undergoes little increase. The fourth stage ends in a division into 16 segments, the fifth into 32, the sixth into 64 (fig. 493), the seventh into 128, and the eighth into 256 (fig. 494). But it is right here to observe that while it is possible in the earlier stages to trace the reduplication of individual masses so that the succession of their numbers, when the division is complete in each stage, follows in the series of the multiples of two, yet, as the division of the different masses in any stage is not simultaneous, other and as they might be termed irregular numbers may be observed, especially in the earlier intervals of division; as for example, three between the first and second stage, or five, six, or seven masses between the second and third, and so on. In the more advanced stages, from the great increase in number, it becomes almost impossible to follow the division of individual masses. It is also deserving of notice that while the earlier clefts seem to pass right through the yolk and its first segments, so as to involve in the first four or five stages the whole mass of the yolk, in the later stages they do not do so, and the process seems to be in so far (lif- erent, that the segmenting spheres come to be collected on the surface, and a mass of unsegmented granular and semi-fluid protoplasm or yolk substance remains within. However this may be effected, it is certain that the later division involves only the superficial set of spherules, and when the process is completed, the yolk mass comes thus to be covered by a layer of these protoplasmic spherules or segment globules, each of which possesses a nucleus and may after a time also acquire an external envelope, so as to present in all respects the features of a fully formed organised cell. (See the account of the histological relations of these spherules in the General Anatomy, p. 9). Fig. 494.—Ovum of the Rabbit from the Uterus, (from Kolliker after Bisclioff). *f The whole surface of the yolk is now divided into cellular compartments. A dark spot below marks the position of a quantity of granular spheres inside the cellular elements of the blastoderm, a, the albuminous layer, now much thinned out and incorporated with the zona ; b, the cells of the outer layer of the blastoderm resulting from segmentation ; o, the spot of granu- lar opaque spheres. Fig. 494. h. Segmentation in the lircVs ovum.— In the ova of birds the segmenting pro- cess is somewhat different from that now described in mammals, seeing that it is restricted to the germinal disc or cicatricula. From the researches of Coste and several concurrent observations it appears that