20 THE BLOOD. the oval, vary in different instances, so that in some osseous fishes the elliptical form is almost shortened into a circle. The blood-corpuscles of invertebrata, although they (except in some of the redt-blooded annelides) want the red colour, are also, for the most part, flatened or disk-shaped ; being in some cases circular, in others oblong, as in the larvae of aquatic insec ts. Sometimes they appear granulated on the surface like a raspberry, but this is probably due to some alteration occurring in them. The size of the corpuscles differs greatlyin different kinds of animals; it is greater in birds than in mammalia, and largest of all in the naked amphibia. They are for themost part smaller in quadrupeds than in man; in the elephant, however, they are larger, being yfoj-th of an inch, which is the largest size yet observed in the blood-corpuscles of any mammiferous animal; the goat was long supposed to have the smallest, viz., about ^Vo^1 °f an inch; but Gulliver found them much smaller in the Meminna and Napu musk-deer, in which animals they are less than x 2 o o 0th of an inch. In birds they do not vary in size so much; from Gulliver's very elaborate tables of measurement it appears that they range in length from about ^eVo^li to p/^fch of an inch ; he states that their breadth is usually a little more than half the length, and their thickness about a third of the breadth or rather more. He found a remarkable exception in the corpuscles of the snowy owl, which measure x *5 0th of an inch in length; and are only about a third of this in breadth. In scaly reptiles they are from tjVo^1 ^° TtVo^h °f an inch in length ; in the naked amphibia they are much larger: thus, in the frog they are 10x00th of an inch long, and T/o oth broad; in the salamander they are larger still; but the largest yet known a re found in the protean reptiles. For example, in Proteus anguinus they are ■450th of an inch in length, and T\jth in breadth ; in the siren, which is so much allied to the proteus in other respects, they measure -4-§-oth of an inch in length, and T^tk in breadth, whilst in Amphiuma tridactylum they are as much as one-third larger than in the proteus. In the skate and shark tribe the corpuscles resemble those of the frog, in other fishes they are smaller. From what has been stated, it will be seen that the size of the blood- corpuscles in animals generally is not proportionate to the size of the body; at the same time, as Gulliver remarks, " if we compare the measurements made from a great number of different species of the same order, it will be found that there is a closer connection between the size of the animal and that of its blood-corpuscles than has been generally supposed;" and he has pointed out at least one example of a very natural group of quadrupeds, the ruminants, in which there is a gradation of the size of the corpuscles in relation to that of the body. Structure.—The human red corpuscle is composed essentially of a soft colourless stroma (tegumentary frame of Gulliver) of the same shape and size as the corpuscle itself, throughout which is diffused a semi-fluid coloured matter which may be readily separated from the stroma by means of reagents. Some of these, such as water and acetic acid, appear to act simply by dissolving out the coloured part, leaving the stroma more or less swollen from imbibition of fluid. Others, such as ether and chloroform and the salts of the biliary acids, cause the discharge of the coloured matter into the surrounding fluid 5 blood so