376 THE LARGE INTESTINE. coat take no part in the formation of the valve, but are stretched across it uninterruptedly from one intestine to the other. The Colon.—The ascending colon, situated in the right lumbar and hypochondriac regions, commencing at the caecum opposite to the ileo-cascal valve, ascends vertically to the under surface of the liver, near the gall-bladder, where it proceeds forwards and then turns abruptly to the left, forming what is named the hepatic flexure of the colon. The ascending colon is smaller than the caecum, but larger than the trans- verse colon. It is overlaid in front by some convolutions of the ileum, and is bound down firmly by the peritoneum, which passes over its anterior surface and its sides, and generally leaves an interval in which its posterior surface is connected by areolar tissue with the fascia cover- ing the quadratus lumborum muscle, and with the front of the right kidney. In some cases, however, the peritoneum passes nearly round it, and forms a distinct though very short right meso-colon. The transverse colon passes across from the right hypochondrium,. through the,upper part of the umbilical region, into the left hypochon- drium. Sometimes it is found as low as the umbilicus or even lower. At each extremity it is situated deeply towards the back part of the abdominal cavity, but in the middle it curves forwards, and lies close to the anterior wall of the abdomen. Hence it describes an arch, the con- cavity of which is turned towards the vertebral column; and it has accordingly been named the arch of the colon. Above, the transverse colon is in contact with the under surface of the liver, the gall-bladder, the great curvature of the stomach, and the lower end of the spleen. Below it are the convolutions of the small intestine, the third portion of the duodenum being behind it. It is invested by the general peritoneum, which forms a separate fold for it behind, the transverse meso-colon, and in front it adheres to the sac of the omentum. The descending colon is continuous with the left extremity of the transverse colon by a sudden bend named the splenic flexure. At this bending there is found a remarkable fold of peritoneum, the costo- colic or pleiiro-colic ligament, which stretches with a lunated free border to the colon from the diaphragm, opposite the 10th or 11th rib. As was pointed out by Haller, it supports the spleen although uncon- nected with that organ, and might be termed " sustentaculum lienis." The colon then descends almost perpendicularly through the left hypochondriac and lumbar regions to the left iliac fossa, where it ends in the sigmoid flexure. The peritoneum affords a covering to it only in front and at the sides, whilst behind it is connected by areolar tissue to the left cms of the diaphragm, the quadratus lumborum, and the left kidney. It is usually concealed behind some convolutions of the jejunum. The sigmoid flexure of the colon, situated in the left iliac fossa, consists of a double bending of the intestine upon itself in the form of the letter S, immediately before it becomes continuous with the rectum at the margin of - the pelvis opposite to the left sacro-iliac articulation. It is attached by a distinct meso-colon to the iliac fossa, and is very movable. It is placed immediately behind the anterior parietes, or is concealed only by a few turns of the small intestine. The sigmoid flexure is the narrowest part of the colon. The Eectum.—The lowest portion of the large intestine, named the