323 ERUPTION" OF THE PERMANENT TEETH. The six posterior (or " superadded ") permanent teeth, that is, the three permanent molars on each side, do not come in the place of other teeth. They arise from successive extensions of the dental groove and enamel-germ carried backwards in the jaw, posterior to the milk-teeth, and named by Goodsir "posterior cavities of reserve.1" During the general adhesion of the dental groove occurring at the fifteenth week, the part posterior to the last temporary molar follicle continues unobliterated, and thus forms a cavity filled by an enamel- germ, in the fundus of which a papilla ultimately appears, and forms the rudiment of the first permanent molar tooth ; this takes place very early, viz., at the sixteenth week. The deepest part of this cavity is next converted by adhesion into a sac, which encloses the papilla, whilst its upper portion with its contained epithelium, elongates back- wards so as to form another cavity of reserve, in which, at the .seventh month after birth, the papilla for the second molar tooth appears. After a long interval, during which the sac of the first permanent molar and its contained tooth have acquired great size, and that of the second molar has also advanced considerably in development, the same changes once more occur and give rise to the sac and papilla of the wisdom- tooth, the rudiments of which are visible at the sixth year. The sub- sequent development of the permanent molar teeth takes place from these sacs just like that of the other teeth. Calcification begins first in the anterior permanent molar teeth. Its order and periods may be thus stated for the upper jaw, the lower being a little earlier : First molar, five or six months after birth ; central incisor, a little later ; lateral incisor and canine, eight or nine months ; two bicuspids, two years or more ; second molar, five or six years; third molar, or wisdom-tooth, about twelve years. Eruption of the permanent teeth.—The time at which this occurs in regard to each pair of teeth in the lower jaw is exhibited in the sub- joined table. The corresponding teeth of the upper jaw appear some- what later. Molar, first......... 6 years. Incisors, central . . . . . . . . 7 ,, „ lateral . . . . . . . . 8 Bicuspids, anterior . 9 „ „ posterior . . . • • • 10 » Canines . . . . . , . 11 to 12 ., Molars, second 12 to 13 „ „ third (or wisdom) . . . . 17 to 25 „ It is just before the shedding of the temporary incisors—i.e., about the sixth year, that there is the greatest number of teeth in the jaws. At that period there are all the milk-teeth, and all the permanent set except the wisdom-teeth, making forty-eight (see fig. 224.) During- the growth of the teeth the jaw increases in depth and length, and undergoes changes in form. In the child it is shallow, but it becomes much deeper in the adult. In the young subject the alveolar arch describes almost the segment of a circle ; but in the adult the curve is semi-elliptical. The increase which takes place in the length of the jaw arises from a growth behind the posi- tion of the milk-teeth, so as to provide room for the three additional teeth on each side belonging to the permanent set. At certain periods in the growth of the jaws there is not sufficient room in the alveolar arch for the growing sacs of the permanent molars ; and hence the latter are found at certain stages of theii