THE PENIS. 431 The Integuments.—The integument of the penis, which is con- tinued from that of the pubes and scrotum, forms a simple investment as far as the neck of the glans. At this part it leaves the surface and is doubled up in a loose cylindrical fold, constituting the prepuce or fore- skin. The inner layer of this fold returns to the penis behind the cervix, where it is firmly attached ; and from thence the integument, becoming again adherent, is continued forwards over the corona and glans, as far as the orifice of the urethra, where it meets with the mucous membrane of the urethra. Upon the body of the penis the skin is thin, free from fat, and, in the anterior two-thirds of its length, from hairs also ; in these respects differing remarkably from that on the pubes, which is thick, covers a large cushion of fat, and, after puberty, is beset with hairs : the skin of the penis is moreover very movable and distensible, and is of a darker colour than that of the neighbouring parts. At the free margin of the prepuce the integument changes its character, and approaches to that of a mucous membrane, being red, thin, and moist. Numerous sebaceous glands are collected round the cervix of the penis and corona glandis ; they are named the glands of Tyson, or glandula? odoriferse, their secretion having a peculiar odour. Upon the surface of the glans penis the integument again changes its character ; it ceases to contain glands, but is beset with large papillae, which are very vascular and extremely sensitive, and it adheres most -intimately and immovably to the spongy tissue of the glans. Beneath the skin, on the body of the penis, the ordinary superficial fascia is very distinct ; it is continuous with that of the groin, and also with the dartos tissue of the scrotum. Near the root of the organ there is in front a dense band of fibro-elastic tissue, named the suspensory ligament, lying amongst the fibres of the superficial fascia; it is triangular in form ; its anterior border is free, above it is connected with the fore part of the pubic symphysis, and below it runs down upon the dorsum of the penis. The integuments of the penis are supplied with blood by branches of the dorsal artery of the penis and external pudic ; the veins join the dorsal and external pudic veins. Their nerves are derived from the dorsal and anterior superficial perineal branches of the pudic nerves. THE CORPORA CAVERNOSA. The corpora cavernosa form the principal part of the body of the penis, and chiefly determine its form and consistence in the state of erection. They are two cylindrical bodies, placed side by side, flattened on their median aspects, and closely united and in part blended together along the middle line in the anterior three-fourths of their length ; whilst at the back part, in contact with the symphysis pubis, they separate from each other in the form of two bulging and then tapering processes named crura, which, extending backwards, are attached to the pubic and ischial rami, and are invested by the erectores penis or iscbio-cavernosi muscles. The enlarged portion at the root, named by Kobelt the bulb of the corpora cavernosa, attains a much greater pro- portionate development in some quadrupeds than in man. In front, the corpora cavernosa are closely bound together into a blunt conical extremity, which is covered by the glans penis and firmly connected to its base by fibrous tissue. VOL. If. F F