168 BLOOD-VESSELS. works of varying fineness. This layer is said to be most constant in the larger arteries: it exists however in the medium-sized ones, and is to be looked upon as of considerable pathological importance, as being that in which, under certain conditions, cell proliferation is most apt to occur. 3. Elastic layers (fig. 107, b). These form the chief sub- stance of the inner coat. The elastic tissue commonly forms longitu- dinal networks of fibres (fig. 110), which consist of several layers of different degrees of closeness. Not uncommonly some of these layers take on a membranous character, in which case they form the "perforated" or "fenestrated" membrane of Henle. This consists of a thin and brittle transparent film, and may exist in one or several layers ; and in that case it may be stripped off in small shreds, which have a remarkable tendency to curl in at their upper and lower borders, and roll themselves up as represented in fig. 111. The films of Fig. 110. Fig. HI. Fig. 110.—Elastic Network of Artery. 350 Diameters (KaQiker). Fig. 111.—Portion of Fenestrated Membrane from the Crural Artery, magnified 200 Diameters (Henle). a, b, c, x^erforations. membrane are marked by very fine pale streaks, following principally a longitudinal direction, and joining each other obliquely in a sort of network. Henle considers these lines to be reticulating fibres formed upon the membranous layer. This membrane is further remarkable by being perforated with numerous round, oval, or irregularly shaped apertures of different sizes. In some parts of the arteries the per- forated membrane is very thin, and therefore difficult to strip off; in other situations it is of considerable thickness, consisting of several layers ; in which case it tends in the outer layers to lose its membra- nous character: indeed it must be borne in mind that every transition is met with between the fenestrated membrane, as above described, and the longitudinal elastic networks before mentioned. The inner coat may thus be said to be formed of a layer of flattened epithelioid cells ; a layer of delicate connective tissue with branched cells ; and elastic layers: the latter consisting of elastic tissue under two principal forms, namely, the longitudinal elastic networks and the fenestrated membrane ; and these two forms may coexist in equal