STRUCTURE OF THE LARGE INTESTINE. 37J The mucous membrane differs from that of the small intestine in being quite smooth and destitute of villi. Viewed with a lens, its 20;i Fig. 268.—Diagrammatic View (Magnified) of a Small Portion of the Mucous Membrane of the Colon (Allen Thomson). A small portion of the mucous membrane cut perpendicularly at the edges is shown in perspective ; on the surface are seen the orifices of the crypts of Lieberkuhn or tubular glands, the most of them lined by their columnar epithelium, a few divested of it and thus appearing larger ; along the sides the tubular glands are seen more or less equally divided by the section ; these are resting on a wider portion of the submucous tissue, from which the blood-vessels are represented as passing into the spaces between the glands. surface is seen to be marked all over by the orifices of numerous tubular glands (crypts of Lieberkuhn) (fig. 2G8), resembling those of the small intestine, but longer and more numerous, and placed more closely together and at more regular intervals. Besides these, there are scattered over the whole large intestine lymphoid fol- licles, similar to the solitary glands of the small intestine, but less prominent. They are most numerous in the caecum and in its vermiform appendix; being placed closely all over the latter. The epithelium, which covers the general surface of the mucous membrane, and lines the tubular glands, is of the columnar kind, and in every respect similar to that of the small intestine. As in the stomach the mucous mem- brane consists of areolar connective tissue with a certain amount of retiform tissue, and is bounded next the submu- cous coat by a layer of plain muscular fibres {muscularis mucosce), which sends prolongations up between the glands to be attached to the basement membrane near the surface, in the same way as in the villi of the small intestine. Fig. 269.—Blood-Vessels of Large Intestine as seen in Vertical Section (Kolliker). a, artery passing up from sub- mucosa ; c, vein arising from capil- lary plexus, b, around the mouths of the glands.