682 THE OVUM AND BLASTODERM. formation, and before any incubation lias taken place, already consists of two layers of cellular elements (fig. 496, s and d). / These two layers differ considerably. The cells of the upper layer are of smaller diameter, about grW? more compactly laid together, so as to be slightly compressed, and shortly prismatic, and are all provided with distinct nuclei. Those of the lower layer are of somewhat larger size, and of a more granular aspect, so as to hide the nucleus, which appears, however, 'to exist in the greater number, and the whole of these cells are rather scattered in reticular groups than united into a distinct and consistent layer (His). Below this layer there is a narrow space occupied by clear fluid between the germ and the surface of the white yolk, to which the name of siibgerminal cavity is given, and in this space a number of granular spheres or formative cells are found, somewhat similar to the cells of the lower layer. Fig. 496. Fig. 496.—Microscopic view op a vertical section through half the Blasto- derm of A newly-laid Egg. (From Strieker). 2|° S, upper layer of small nucleated cells ; D, lower layer of larger granular cells ; M, segment spherules lying in the subgerminal cavity; A, substance of the white yolk below the germ. In mammals, too, it would appear from the observations of Bischoff, Coste, Reichert, and others, that the blastoderm which covers the yolk after the completion of segmentation, though not double from the first, comes soon to consist of two layers. The exact time and mode of the appearance of a second layer are, however, still imperfectly known : and, from the difficulty belonging to the question of secondary seg- mentation in the deeper part of the yolk previously adverted to, it maybe doubtful how far the whole blastoderm of mammals is to be regarded as the direct product of a primary segmentation, or a part of it is due to a later organising process. There is, however, a great difference in the relation of the primi- tive blastoderm to the rest of the ovum in birds and in mammals. In the former, as already stated, previous to incubation, this organised cellular disc covers only a very limited part of the surface of the yolk, while in mammals it completely surrounds the yolk from the first, and thus constitutes the vesicular blastoderm of Coste, Reichert, and other authors. From the first the blastoclermal disc of birds shows a difference in its central and peripheral parts, the former being thinner and more transparent, and thus forming the so-called transparent area, the latter being thicker and more opaque, is the opaque area. But in mammals the central portion of the primitive blastoderm presents no defined transparent area, and differs chiefly at first from the rest by its greater thickness, and it is by later charges accompanying development that there arises a thickened opaque disc, the embryonal spot of Coste, and