CAETILAGES OF THE LARYNX. Fig. 188. 2S1 of the pharynx, and affords attachment by means of areolar tissue, to the thyroid body. On their internal surfaces, the two alee are smooth and slightly concave. Of the four cornua, all of which bend inwards, Fig. 188. — Cartilages of the Larynx seen from behind and on the Right (Bishop). h, i, thyroid cartilage ; the right ala is seen foreshortened ; below e, the oblique line on its outer surface ; b, superior, and c, inferior cornu of the right side ; d, cricoid cartilage ; to the left of h, anterior narrow part of the Ting ; a, a, arytenoid cartilages ; /, /, epiglottis, the lines point to little j)its (for glands) on its surface. the two superior or great cornua (fig. 188, b, b), pass slightly backwards, and terminate each by a blunt extremity, which is connected, by means of the lateral thyro-hyoid ligament, to the tip of the corresponding- great cornu of the os hyoides (fig. 180). The inferior or smaller cornua (fig. 188, c), which are somewhat thicker but shorter, are directed slightly forwards, and each presents, on the inner aspect of the tip, a smooth surface, for articulation with a prominence on the side of the cricoid cartilage. The cricoid cartilage (fig. 188, d), so named from being shaped like a signet-ring, is thicker and stronger than the thyroid. It is deep behind, where the thyroid cartilage is deficient, measuring in the male about an inch from above downwards ; but in front its vertical measurement is diminished to a fourth or a fifth of an inch. Corresponding with this, the superior border is markedly elevated behind, and descends with a deep concavity in front below the thyroid cartilage ; while the inferior border is horizontal, and connected by membrane to the first ring of the trachea. The posterior elevated part of the upper border is slightly depressed in the middle line (fig. 188); and on the sides of this depression are two convex oval articular facets, directed upwards and outwards, which form a movable joint with the arytenoid cartilages. The external surface of the cartilage is convex and smooth in front and at the sides, where it affords attachment to the crico-thyroid muscles, and behind these to the inferior constrictors of the pharynx : in the middle line posteriorly is a slight vertical ridge (fig. 189, c) to which some of the longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus are attached. On each side of this ridge is a broad depression occupied by the posterior crico-arytenoid muscle, outside which is a small rounded and slightly raised surface for articulation on either side with the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage (fig. 188, c). The internal surface is covered throughout by the mucous membrane of the larynx. The lower border of the cricoid is circular, but higher up the cartilage