ORIGIN OF NERVES. 5G7 connected with the gyrus fornicatus, or to cross over to the opposite side. Second or optic nerves. Each optic tract may be traced backwards from the commissure, across the crus, to the under surface of the optic thalamus, at the posterior extremity of which it ends by blending with the corpora geniculata. Its fibres may be traced into the corpora geni- culata, the optic thalamus, and the anterior of the corpora quadri- gemina. Those which enter the thalamus pass, some through the corpora geniculata, some beneath the inner corpus geniculatum, between it and the crus (as the middle root of some authors) to reach the cells of the lower stratum of the thalamus. A few fibres arise in the base of the brain, from the lamina cinerea, and from a collection of grey matter on the outer side of the tuber cinereum. Third or oculo-motor nerve. Each nerve arises from the inner surface of the crus cerebri, immediately in front of the pons, by a number of fasciculi which are attached to the surface in an oblique line. The fibres, diverging, pass backward through the substance of the teg- mentum of the crus, some through the locus niger, some through the tegmental uucleus, to reach the grey nucleus in which the majority of. them end. This is a column of multipolar nerve-cells, beneath the grey floor of the aqueduct of Sylvius, below the corpora quadrigemina, and extending beneath the upper part of the fourth ventricle. The fourth or trochlear nerve, which appears in the base at the outer side of the crus cerebri, arises from the surface of the valve of Vieussens, immediately behind the corpora quadrigemina, and close to the middle line. In the substance of the valve, the fibres of each root divide into three, groups. Of these, one, ascending, passes obliquely forwards and up- wards in the wall of the aqueduct of Sylvius, to end in the posterior part of the nucleus beneath the corpora quadrigemina, the anterior part of which gives origin to the fibres of the third nerve. A second group of descending fibres pass on the outer side of the locus coeruleus to the neighbourhood of the nucleus of the fifth nerve. A third group of decussating fibres cross to the other side, to join the ascending or descending fibres of the other nerve. The fifth nerve (trifacial or trigeminal) arises from the side of the pons Varolii, nearer to the upper than to the lower border. It consists of two parts of unequal size, the smaller, motor, root being separated from the other by a few transverse fibres of the pons. Both roots curve backwards and downwards in the substance of the pons, towards the outer angle of the floor of the fourth ventricle, near the fovea centralis. The fibres of the sensory root turn outwards, most of them to end in a collection of nerve-cells on their outer side, con- tinuous below with the grey tubercle of Rolando. Some fibres pass inwards beneath the floor of the fourth ventricle to the middle line. Others descend in front of the nucleus, to the lower part of the medulla. The fibres of the small root go to a group of large multipolar nerve- cells, to the inner side of the fibres of the nerve, and near the outer angle of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The prolongation down- wards of this nucleus (seen at Vm, in fig. 359) extends to the lowrer part of the medulla. The sixth or abducent nerve arises from the front of the ante- rior pyramid, close to the lower edge of the pons, to which it is some-