57 CELL SPACES. ground-substance, which also covers the surface of the bundles. In this substance lie the cellular elements of the tissue, the con- nective-tissue corpuscles (figs. 30, 31). These bodies, which Fig. 31. are of a protoplasmic nature, are commonly of a flattened form and not unfrequently have processes which ramify in the tissue and may anastomose with branches from neighbour- ing corpuscles (fig. 31). The cells have each a clear round or oval nucleus, containing one or more nucleoli: occa- sionally two nuclei are to be seen in a cell. Besides pre- senting considerable variations in size and shape the corpus- cles also exhibit differences in the character of their proto- plasm (see fig. 30), which in some is coarsely granular in appearance, in others finely granular, or even perfectly clear and pellucid, with a few coarse granules scattered in it here and there, whilst in others again there is a distinct appearance of striation or fibrillation within the cell ; but these differences have hardly as yet been sufficiently investigated. The cells (with their pro- cesses) occupy spaces in the ground - substance which they more or less com- pletely fill, and which there- fore closely correspond to the corpuscles themselves in size and form, and in their branching and intercommu- nication. These cell-spaces (Saftcanalchen, Reckling- hausen) are brought into view by treating the tissue with a solution of nitrate of silver and subsequently ex- Fig. 31.—Hamified Connective-tissue Cor- puscles from Synovial Membrane. 250 diameters. Fi v. 32,—Cell-Spaces of Subcutaneous Con- nective-tissue, Nitrate of Silver Prepara- tion. 340 DIAMETERS. posing it to the light, by which the ground-substance and fibrils of the tissue are stained of a uniform brown tint, whereas the protoplasm of the cells remains unstained, and the cell-spaces consequently appear white (fig. 32).* * In the case of the pigment-cells of the frog's skin previously noticed (pp. 12, 13), it is probable that the clear, branched figure which remains after the shrinking of the pig- mented matter, is the outline of the cell-space, which was previously filled by the cell- substance. (Sharpey.)