757 FARTHER DEVELOPMENT OF THE ENCEPHALON. at the sixth month cover them in completely. Moreover, they become gradually solid by the deposition of matter within them ; and as, in the meantime, the cerebral 'peduncles are increasing rapidly in size in the floor of this Fig. 557.—Brain of the Human Em- Fig. 557. BRYO OF THREE MONTHS. NATURAL X size (from Kolliker). In 1 the view is from above, the upper part of the cerebral hemispheres e •fZ and mesencephalon having been re- t/!0 moved. /, fore-part of the divided wall of the hemisphere ; /', hind part y. of the same turned in which becomes the hippocampus ; est, corpus striatum ; tha, thalamus opticus. In 2 the lower surface is represented ; to, tractus opticus ; and in front of this the olfactory bulbs and tracts ; c m, single mass of the corpora mammillaria not yet divided ; p, pons Varolii. The cerebellum and medulla oblongata are seen behind and to the sides in both figures. middle cephalic vesicle, the cavity in its interior is quickly filled up, with the exception of the narrow passage named the Sylvian aqueduct. The fillet is dis- Fig. 553.—Brain and Spinal Cord of a Fcetus of four Fig. 558. MONTHS, SEEN FROM BEHIND (from Kolliker). li, hemispheres of the cerebrum ; m, corpora quadrigemina or mesencephalon ; c, cerebellum ; m o, medulla oblongata, the fourth ventricle being overlapped by the cerebellum ; s s, the spinal cord with its brachial and crural enlargements. tinguishable in the fourth month. The corpora quad- rigemina of the two sides are not marked off from each other by a vertical median groove until about the sixth month ; and the transverse depression separating the anterior and posterior pairs is first seen about the seventh month of intra-uterine life. Thalamencephalon.—From the sides of this vesicle, as has already been described, the optic vesicles are formed, and from its forepart on the two sides the vesicles of the cerebral hemispheres are developed. Reichert first pointed out that there is left between the hemisphere- vesicles of opposite sides a wedge-shaped interval, which forms the third ventricle. He points out that the terminal extremity (lamina terminalis) of the cerebro- spinal tube is at the tip of this wedge, and is placed im- mediately in front of the optic commissure, at the lamina cinerea ; and that therefore the infundibulum is not that extremity, as had been previously supposed by Baer, but is an expansion of the vesicle downwards. The formation of the pituitary body has already been described. The infundibulum of the thalamencephalon becomes connected with it superiorly, and seems for a time even to form a part of it. The pineal gland, according to Baer, is developed from the back part of the thalami, where those bodies continue joined together ; but it is suggested by Bischoff that its development may be rather connected with the pia mater. It was not seen by Tiedemann until the fourth month in the human foetus ; subse- quently its growth is very slow ; and it at first contains no gritty deposit: this, however, was found by Sommerring at birth.