Fig. 176.—Posterior view op AEJRANGEMENT OF THE MUSCULAR FIBEES. Fig. 176. 257 some of tliem pass in at the inter-auricular septum (rig. 175). The deeper fibres, which are proper to each auricle, consist of two sets, viz., the looped and the annular fibres. The looped fibres pass over the auricle, and seem to be attached by both extremities to the correspond- ing auriculo-ventrieular rings. The annular fibres encircle the auricular appendages (fig. 175, d", 176, e'), some longitudinal fibres running within them. These annular fibres also surround the entrances of the venae cavae (/, i) on the right, and of the coronary vein and the pulmonary veins on the left side of the heart (g, h),—the muscular fibres extending for some distance from the auricle upon the veins, especially upon the superior vena cava and the pulmonary veins. Fibres of the ventricles.—The muscular fasciculi of the ventricles have a very intricate disposition, which has received great attention from anatomists. Many of the statements, however, are conflicting, and it must be confessed that the subject still admits of farther investigation. THE SAME PREPARATION AS IS REPRESENTED IN THE PRE- CEDING figure (Allen Thom- son). a, posterior", surface of the right ventricle with its super- ficial muscular fibres dissected ; b, the same of the left ventricle ; c, posterior interventricular groove, from which the coronary vessels have heen removed ; d, right auricle ; e, the left, show- ing some transverse fibres common to both auricles, and others be- longing to each ; /, superior vena cava ; g, y' pulmonary veins cut short; h, sinus of the great coronary vein covered by muscular fibres ; li' posterior coronary vein joining the principal one ; i, in- ferior vena cava ; i' Eustachian valve. It is chiefly the constant twisting and overlapping of the several bundles which renders difficult the investigation of their course and disposition. In order to unravel them with any degree of success, it is best to boil the slightly distended heart for a short time, so as to soften the connective tissue, and then carefully to dissect the organ in part by cutting and in part by tearing asunder the fibres with blunt instruments.* The surface fibres of the ventricles (figs. 175, 176, 177) extend from the base, where they are attached to the tendinous structures around * For convenience of description, the heart, in the following account of the course of the fibres, is supposed placed apex downwards; and with the anterior and posterior sur- faces about equally occupied by the two ventricles (as represented in figs. 175, 176). s 2