LOBES AND FISSURES OF THE LIVER. 381 concave ; the circumference is thick and rounded behind and on the right, but becomes gradually less so towards the left and front borders, which are sharp and thin. The liver is divided into two unequal lobes, a right and a left, and on the under surface of the right lobe are three secondary lobes or lobules, named the lobe of Spigelius, the caudate or tailed lobe, and the square lobe. Five fissures or fossae are likewise described ; viz., the transverse or portal ; the umbilical fissure and the fissure of the ductus venosus, to- gether forming the longitudinal fissure ; the fossa of the vena cava and the fossa for the gall bladder. Surfaces.—The upper surface of the organ is convex, smooth, and covered with peritoneum. It is marked off into a right portion, large and convex, and a left portion, smaller and flatter, by the line of attach- ment of the fold of peritoneum named the falciform or broad ligament. The under surface (fig. 278) looks somewhat backwards, and is concave and uneven. It is invested with peritoneum everywhere ex- cept where the gall-bladder is adherent to it, and at the portal fissure and fissure of the ductus venosus, where the fold of peritoneum (lesser omentum) comes off, which encloses the blood-vessels and ducts of the Fie. 273. Fig. 273.—Lower Surface op the Liver with the Principal Blood-vessels and Ducts (from Sappey). ^ 1, left lobe ; 2, 3, 4, 5, right lobe ; 6, lobulus quadratus.; 7, pons hepatis ; 8, 9, 10, lobulus Spigelii ; 11, lobulus caudatus ; 12, 13, trausverse or portal fissure with the great vessels ; 14, hepatic artery ; 15, vena porta? ; 16, anterior part of the longitudinal fissure, containing 17, the round ligament or remains of the obliterated umbilical vein ; 18, posterior part of the same fissure, containing 19, the obliterated ductus venosus ; 20, 21, 22, gall-bladder ; 23, cystic duct ; 24, hepatic duct ; 25, fossa containing 26, the vena cava inferior ; 27, opening of a small vein from the capsule of the organ ; 28, small part of the trunk of the right hepatic vein ; 29, trunk of the left hepatic vein ; 30, 31, openings of the right and left diaphragmatic veins. viscus, and passes to the smaller curvature of the stomach, surface the lobes and fissures of the liver are observed. On this