DEVELOPMENT OF NERVES. 161 with a ganglion, and a motor root, like the spinal nerves. The glosso- pharyngeal and pneumo-gastric nerves are also decidedly compound in nature ; they are also provided with ganglia at their roots, which in- volve a greater or less number of their fasciculi; but it has not yet been satisfactorily determined whether in these nerves the fibres which have different properties are collected at the roots into separate bundles, nor how they are respectively related to the ganglia. The sympathetic, as already stated, contains both afferent and efferent fibres. Simple nerves are such as contain either afferent or efferent fibres only. The olfactory, auditory, and optic are simple afferent and sen- sory nerves. The third, fourth, and sixth, the facial, the spinal accessory and hypoglossal nerves are generally regarded as examples of simple motor nerves ; there is reason to believe, at least, that they are simple and motor in their origin, or as far as their proper fibres are concerned, and that the sensibility evinced by some of them in their branches is owing to sensory fibres derived from other nerves which join them in their progress. The nerves governing the motions of the blood-vessels are commonly spoken of as the " vaso-motorial nerves;" but although this term is often of convenient application, there seems no sufficient reason for reckoning these nerves as a distinct system, any more than motorial nerves distributed to other parts or organs whose motions are inde- pendent of the will. DEVELOPMENT OP NERVES. The knowledge as yet acquired respecting this process is not very positive or consistent, so that much room is left for speculation and conjecture. The nerve-cells are doubtless derived from the common embyro-cells, which, undergoing modification in their substance, send out branches from their circumference and acquire the character of nerve-cells. According to the most generally current descriptions, the fibres are stated to be formed by the linear coalescence of long fusiform cells, and to be at first pale and grey, but afterwards to acquire a medul- lary sheath and become white. This change of aspect is apparent in the human embryo of the fourth or fifth month. According to Kolliker's account of the growth of nerve-fibres at their peripheral ends, as observed in the tail of batrachian larva?, the existing fibres are prolonged by lines of fusiform cells which coalesce into pale fibres. These send out fine offshoots, which may join with neighbouring fibres, or with branched or stellate cells, which change into branched fibres, and in both of these ways the branching and conjunction of the nerves go on. The first fibres thus generated (embryonal fibres, Koll.) virtually represent bundles of two, three, or more tubular dark-bordered fibres, into which they are speedily converted ; the formation of the medullary sheath proceeding outwards along the branches. The fact pointed out by Ranvier that the medullary sheath of the nerves is divided at regular intervals into a series of segments, each of which possesses a nucleus, and may therefore be looked upon as repre- senting a cell, the primitive sheath being analogous to the cell mem- brane, would seem to render it probable that these segments are actually formed from cells, which come to be applied around previously-formed axial fibres, and become filled with the fatty matter of the medullary VOL. II. M