333 THE PALATE. with their concavity outwards, and extending- down and out from the dorsum to the under surface of the border, so that those which are outermost are shortest. (Zaglas, " On the Muscular Structure of the Tongue/' in G-oodsir's Annals, I. p. I.) Examined in transverse sections, the muscular fibres are seen to be arranged so as to render the substance divisible into an outer part or cortex and an internal or central part. The fibres of the cortex are principally longitudinal, derived superiorly from the lingualis supe- rior, further outwards from the hyo-glossus, on the side from the stylo- glossus, and beneath this from the lingualis inferior. They ensheath the medullary part on all sides except inferiorly, where the genio-glossi muscles enter it between the inferior linguales. In the medullary part are found, imbedded in fat, the decussating fibres of the transverse muscle passing across, the genio-glossi radiating upwards and outwards, and the vertical muscles arching downwards and outwards. In addition to the movements which may be given to the tongue by the extrinsic muscles, this organ is capable of being curved upwards, downwards, or laterally by its cortical fibres, it is flattened by the vertical fibres, and its margins are again drawn together by the transverse : whilst the two last mentioned, acting together, would tend to lengthen the organ. The septum of the tongue is a thin fibrous partition which extends forwards from the hyoid bone to the tip, and divides one half of the medullary part of the tongue from the other, but does not penetrate into the cortex. The arteries of the tongue are derived from the lingualis, with some small branches from the facial and ascending pharyngeal. With these the veins for the most part correspond. The nerves of the tongue (exclusive of branches from the sympathetic nerves) are three ; viz., the lingual or gustatory branch of the fifth, pair, which supplies the papillte and mucous membrane of the fore part and sides of the tongue to the extent of about two-thirds of its surface ; the lingual branch of the glosso- pharyngeal, which sends filaments to the mucous membrane at the base of the tongue, and especially to the papillse vallate ; and, lastly, the hypoglossal nerve, which is distributed to the muscles. Microscopic ganglia exist upon the expan- sion of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and in the sheep and calf upon the gustatory division of the fifth. The detailed description of the blood-vessels and nerves will be found else- where. THE PALATE. The roof of the mouth is formed by the palate, which consists of two portions; the fore part being named the hard palate, and the back part, the soft palate. The osseous framework of the hard palate, already described with the bones of the face, is covered by the periosteum, and by the lining membrane of the mouth, which adhere intimately together. The mucous membrane, which is continuous with that of the gums, is thick, dense, rather pale, and much corrugated, especially in front and at the sides ; but is smoother, thinner, and of a deeper colour behind. Along the middle line is a ridge or raphe, ending in front in a small eminence, which corresponds with the lower opening of the anterior palatine canal, and receives the terminal filaments of the naso-palatine and anterior palatine nerves. The membrane of the hard palate is provided with many muciparous glands, which form a continuous layer between the