THE EYE. 584 —The fibres of the orbicularis muscle; loose connective tissue ; the so- called tarsal cartilages, together with a thin fibrous membrane, the palpebral ligament, which attaches them to the margin of the orbit ; and, finally, the Meibomian glands. In the upper eyelid there is, in addition, the insertion of the levator palpebrse superioris, in the form of a fibrous expansion attached to the upper or anterior surface of the tarsal cartilage. Fig. 396. Fig. 396.—Vertical Section op the Left Orbit and its Contents. The section has "been carried first obliquely through the middle of the optic foramen and optic nerve as far as the back of the eyeball, and thence forward through the eyeball, eyelids, &c. a, frontal bone ; b, superior maxillary ; c, eyebrow ; d, the upper, and d', the lower eyelid, partially open, showing the section of the tarsal cartilages, the eyelashes, &c. ; e, c, the reflection of the conjunctiva from the upper and lower eyelids to the sur- face of the eyeball; /, the levator palpebrse superioris muscle ; g, the upper, g', the lower rectus muscle ; h, the inferior oblique muscle divided ; 1, 1, the optic nerve divided in its sheath ; 2, the cornea ; 2', the sclerotic ; 3, aqueous chamber ; 4, crystal- line lens ; 5, vitreous chamber. The orbicularis muscle is closely adherent to the skin by fine connec- tive tissue entirely devoid of fat, but glides loosely on the tarsal carti- lages. A marginal fasciculus lies within the line of the eyelashes, separated by the bulbs of the lashes from the other fibres, and con- stituting the musculus ciliaris Riolani. The tarsal cartilages (tarsi) are two thin elongated plates formed of dense connective tissue, without, according to most observers, any inter- mixture of cartilage-cells. They!' are placed one in each lid, and serve to give shape and firmness to those parts. The upper cartilage, the larger, is half oval in form, being broader near the centre and narrowing towards the angles of the lids. The lower is thinner, much narrower, and more nearly of an uniform breadth throughout. Their free or ciliary edge, which is straight, is thicker than any other part. At the inner canthus they are fixed by fibrous slips of the tendon of the orbicularis muscle ; and at the outer angle are attached to the malar bone by a fibrous band belonging to the palpebral ligament, and named the external tarsal ligament. The palpebral ligament is a fibrous membrane placed beneath the