FORMATION OF THE YALYES. 791 be a peculiar twist of one or both, in order that they may finally unite so as to become continuous. The completion of the partition of the aortic and pulmonary stems is afterwards effected by the progress of the division from within out- wards through the external walls of the tubes; but the two vessels remain united externally by a common envelope of pericardium. The remarkable cases sometimes observed of abnormal transposition of the two great arterial stems from their natural connection with their respective ventricles may be explained by reference to the history of the development of the parts of the heart before given. Formation of the Valves.—The formation of the auriculo-ventri- cnlar and semilunar valves begins during the time of the changes previously described by the projection of thick folds from the inner wall of the heart. In the case of the semilunar valves the trifid divi- sion is early perceived, but the cavities or sinuses within the valves are late of being developed. In the auriculo-ventricular valves there is at first an entire or annular projecting fold of the inner substance round the orifice, and this becomes gradually divided into segments, and, the chordae tendineae are' gradually produced by perforation of the valve plate. (See Tonge in Proceed. Roy. Soc, 1868.) The manner in which the pulmonary veins, which are formed separately in the lungs, come to be connected with the left auricle has not yet been ascertained. No further important changes occur in the internal structure of the heart, but there are some which affect the external form and thickness of its walls. In early foetal life the size of the heart bears a consider- ably greater proportion to that of the body than at a later period. At birth it is still proportionally large. For some time the auricular portion remains more voluminous than the ventricular, but in the latter half of foetal life the permanent proportion is more nearly established. The walls of both ventricles are also thicker than in after life, and it is especially deserving of notice that the wall of the right is up to near the time of birth quite as thick as that of the left,—a peculiarity which may be connected with the office of the right ventricle to propel the blood of the foetus through the extended course of the ductus arte- riosus, the descending aorta and the placental circulation. DEVELOPMENT OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. The Principal Arteries. The Aorta.—The most interesting part of this history is that relating to the development of the aorta and the larger vessels arising from it. The double condition of the main trunk of the aorta has already been referred to as existing in the chick up to near the end of the second day. About the fortieth hour the median fusion or coalescence of the two vessels begins to take place in the dorsal region, by their external union, at first in a very limited space, and very soon afterwards by the formation of a perforation through their united walls. The union of the two vessels which begins in the dorsal^ region extends itself backwards towards the lumbar vertebras, and when it reaches the place where the omphalo-mesenteric arteries pass out on each side, these vessels, each of which was originally the con- tinuation merely of one of the aortaa, appear now as branches of a single and median aorta. The iliac vessels are the next large vessels formed