THE BLADDER. 424 from thepubes in both sexes (musculi pubo-vesicales), and, in the male, from the adjoining part of the prostate gland, they may be traced upwards along the anterior surface to the summit of the bladder ; and they may likewise be followed down over the posterior surface and base to the under part of the neck of the bladder, where they become at- tached to the prostate in the male, and to the front of the vagina in the Fig. 306. Fig. 306, A.—View of the Muscular Fibres of the Bladder from before (Allen Thomson, after Pettigrew). ^ On the right side the superficial fibres are shown ; on the left the deep or circular fibres chiefly are displayed, a, on the right side, the median and most superficial bands of the longitudinal fibres, in which a slight decussation of fibres is seen ; a, those diverging somewhat ; a", the lowest, which pass much more obliquely ; the attachment of the longitudinal fibres to the prostate is shown ; on the left side c, the upper, c', the middle, c", the lowest set of circular or deeper fibres ; at s, the thickest and most transverse sets of these fibres forming the sphincter ; p, half the prostate left on the right side, the left having been removed ; u, the urachus, into which some of tbe longitudinal fibres are seen prolonged. Fig. 306, B.—View of the Muscular Fibres of the Bladder from behind (Allen Thomson, after Pettigrew). ^ On the right side the superficial fibres are displayed ; on the left the deeper fibres of the same kind or intermediate fibres, and some of the circular fibres ; b, b, the median, most superficial and strongest bands of longitudinal fibres on the right side ; b', the more diverging set of fibres near the middle of the bladder ; b", the most divergent fibres which surround the entrance of the ureters ; on the left side, c, c', and c", indicate the deeper circular fibres passing round at various levels and crossing with the deeper diverging fibres posteriorly; s, the most transverse fibres at the neck forming the sphincter ; u, the urachus ; ur, the ureters ; the left half of the prostate has been re- moved to show the sphincter ; v, part of the right vas deferens and vesicula seminalis. female. Upon the sides the superficial fasciculi run more or less obliquely, and often intersect one another : in the male they reach the prostate. At the summit a few are continued along the urachus (fig. 306, u). The longitudinal fibres taken together, constitute what has been named the detrusor urince muscle. The so-called circular fibres (fig. 306, c, c, c") form a thin and some- what irregular reticulated layer distributed over the body of the bladder,