MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 501 the foramen cozcum of Yicq d'Azyr ; the posterior fissure is continued upwards into the floor of the fourth ventricle, where it opens and ex- pands in a superficial furrow, and is gradually lost. In other respects an entirely different arrangement of the parts prevails from that in the cord. The surface of each half of the medulla presents four eminences or columns, which are met with in the following- order, from before backwards, viz.: the anterior p}rramids, the olivary bodies, the restiform bodies, and the posterior pyramids. The anterior pyramids (fig. 354, a, a) are two bundles of white- substance, placed one on either side of the anterior fissure, and marked off from the olivary body externally by a slight depression. They become broader and more prominent as they ascend towards the pons Varolii. At their upper end they are constricted, and thus enter the substance of the pons, through which their fibres may be traced into the peduncles of the brain. In the lower part, a portion of each pyramid, arranged in several bundles, which interlace with the corresponding bundles of the other pyramid, passes downwards across the fissure to the opposite side. This decussation of the pyramids (fig. 354, b ; fig. 357, B) is not com- plete, but involves the greater part of the innermost fibres. When traced from below, it is found that the whole or a great part of the decussating fibres come forward from the deep portion of the lateral columns of the cord, and advance to the surface between the diverging anterior columns, which are thus thrown aside. Other decussating fibres- come from the posterior grey substance, and as these, together with the fibres from the lateral column, cross the anterior horn, they receive from the latter additional fibres. The decussation is more super- ficial, and therefore of greater apparent extent, in some brains than in others. The outer smaller portion of each pyramid does not decussate; it consists of fibres, derived from the anterior column of the cord: these ascend, and are joined by the decussating portion from the opposite side. Together they form a prismatic bundle or column of white fibres, which extends deeply into the substance of the medulla, and is triangular in a cross section. The anterior pyramid contains no grey matter, but a grey layer which lies behind it, betweeen it and the olivary body, has been de- scribed as its nucleus. This consists of medium-sized stellate nerve- cells, lying between transverse and longitudinal fibres, and embedded in a gelatinous substance. The olivary bodies (fig. 354, c) are two masses placed to the outer side of the pyramids, and sunk to a considerable depth in the substance of the medulla oblongata, appearing on its surface as two smooth oval eminences. They do not reach the pons Varolii above, being separated from it by a deep depression; nor do they extend so far down as the pyramids. They consist externally of white substance, of which the fibres chiefly run longitudinally; and internally of a grey nucleus, named corpus dentatmn or ciliare, or olivary nucleus. The olivary nucleus (fig. 357, D, o) appears, on making a section, whether horizontal or vertical, through the middle, to present the form of a zig-zag line of a light yellowish colour, circumscribing a whitish substance within, and interrupted towards the centre of the medulla.