787 DIVISION OF THE HEART'S CAVITIES. farther down the dotted lines indicate the position of the succeeding arches to the number of five in all; 5', 5', the continuation of the main vessels in the body of the embryo ; 6, 6, the omphalo-mesenteric arteries passing out of the body of the embryo into the vas- cular area of the germinal membrane. in width and most strongly bent npon itself, becomes the ventricular portion ; and the third, situated anteriorly and retaining most the simple tubular form, is the arterial or aortic bulb. This tubular stage of the rudimental heart has been observed in the human embryo by Coste and Allen Thomson (see fig. 585, A and B). Division into Single Auricle, Ventricle, and Arterial Bulb.— By a continued increase of the inflection of the heart-tube, a change in the relative position of the several parts is effected, so that the auricular cavity comes to be placed above or behind (dorsally) and to the left of the ventricular part, the veins being carried forwards along with it, while the arterial bulb is attached by its extremity in front to the neck of the embryo immediately behind the lower visceral plates. There is as yet only a single passage through the heart, but the dis- tinction of the auricular and ventricular cavities becomes more appa- rent, both by an increase in the diameter of each, and by the constric- tion which separates them, and by the much greater thickness acquired by the walls of the ventricular and bulbous parts as compared with the auricular portion. The three parts of the heart have now the appearance of being very closely twisted together. The ventricular part becomes considerably wider transversely, and the auricular part shows two projecting pouches, one on each side of the arterial bulb, which are the first indications of the future auricular appendages. At the same time the constriction between the auricular and ventricular parts increases considerably, and the constricted part elongating produces what has been called the canalis auricidaris. Division of the Cavities. Ventricles.—The next series of changes in the developing heart consists in the division of each original single cavity of the ventricle, auricle, and arterial bulb into two compart- Fig. 587.—Head of the Embryo op the Dog with the Fig. 587. Heart seen prom below (from Kolliker, after Bischoff). Magnified. f a, cerebral hemispheres; b, eyes ; c, midbrain ; d, inferior maxillary plates ; e, superior maxillary processes ; /, f, /", second, third, and fourth branchial or visceral plates ; g, right, h, left auricle of the heart ; k, right, i, left ventricle ; I, aortic or arterial bulb, with three pairs of aortic or vascular arches protruding from it. ments, so as to form the right and left ventricles and auricles, and the stems of the pulmonary artery and aorta. The first of these changes occurs in the ventricular portion, and is to be seen in progress on the fourth day in the chick, and the sixth and seventh week in the human embryo. The ventricular chamber of the heart, increasing considerably in breadth, that part of it which ultimately becomes the apex of the heart is thrown towards the left side, and in most mammals, and