375 THE ILEO-COLIC VALVE. diameter and thickly studded with lymphoid follicles, may represent a condition of the appendix. Ileo-csecal or ileo-colic valve.—The lower part of the small intestine (fig. 2711), ascending from left to right, and from before backwards, Fig. 271.—View op the Ileo-colic Fig. 271. Valve from the Large Intestine (after Santorini). h The figure shows the lowest part of the ileum, i, joining the coecum, c, and the ascending colon, o, which have been opened anteriorly, so as to display the ileo-colic valve ; a, the lower, and e, the upper segment of the valve. enters the commencement of the large intestine, with a consider- able degree of obliquity, about two inches and a half from the bottom of the caecum, and opposite the junction of the latter with the ascending colon. The open- ing leading from the ileum into the large intestine is guarded by a valve composed of two seg- ments or folds. This is the ileo- cecal or ileo-colic valve : it is also called the valve of Bauhin and the valve of Tulpius, although Fallopius had described in before either of those anatomists. The entrance between the two segments of the valve is a narrow elongated slit-like aperture, lying nearly transverse to the direction of the great intestine. It is rounded and widened at its anterior end which is turned slightly to the left, but the posterior end is narrow, and pointed. It is bounded above and below by two prominent semi- lunar folds, which project inwards towards the caecum and colon. The upper of these (fig. 271, e) is horizontal in direction, the lower and larger (a) more oblique. At each end of the aperture these folds coalesce, and are then prolonged as a single ridge on each side for some distance round the cavity of the intestine, forming the frcma or retinacula of the valve. The opposed surfaces of the valvular folds which look towards the ileum, and are continuous with its mucous sur- face, are covered like it with villi ; while their other surfaces, turned toward the large intestine, are smooth and destitute of villi. When the caecum is distended, the fraena of the valve are stretched, and the mar- ginal folds brought into apposition, so as completely to close the aper- ture and prevent reflux into the ileum, while at the same time no hindrance is offered to the passage of additional matter from thence into the great intestine. Each segment of the valve consists of two layers of mucous mem- brane, continuous with each other along the free"margin, and including between them, besides the submucous areolar tissue, a number of mus- cular fibres, continued from the circular fibres of the ileum and of the large intestine. The longitudinal muscular fibres and the peritoneal