THE PHARYNX. 341 alveoli communicate with, fine passages (salivary capillaries)—like the biliary capillaries to be afterwards described—which pass between and around the salivary-cells. Their statements on this point agree generally with those previously made by Langerhans and Saviotti with reference to the pancreas, a gland of similar structure (see fig. 239.) The blood-vessels of the salivary glands are numerous, and form a close capil- lary network outside the basement membrane both of the alveoli and the ducts. The lymphatics were described by Gianuzzi as commencing in the form of fissures between and around the alveoli, but further investigations are required on this point. The issuing lymphatics accompany the blood-vessels. The nerves are large and numerous, and many of them exhibit minute ganglia. Some of them have been observed to terminate in Pacinian corpuscles of a simple kind (Krause). According to Pfiuger,* the basement membrane of the alveoli, as well as of the ducts, is perforated by the nerves, which lose their medullary sheath, and, breaking up into a number of branches, become connected with the protoplasm of the cells, either directly (fig. 240, A) or by the medium of small multipolar ganglion-cells (B). Others he describes as passing into the cell-nuclei. Other observers, however, have hitherto failed to corroborate these statements. Fig. 240. A B Fig. 240.—Illustrating Pfluger's views of the Termination of Nerves in the Alveolar Cells (from Strieker's Handbook). A, Direct passage of nerve into a salivary cell; B, by the medium of a multipolar ganglion-cell, <j. It may be added that Pfiuger believes (and in this he is to some extent sup- ported by Heidenhain) that the cells both of the alveoli and of the smaller ducts undergo extensive disintegration during the active state of the gland, and are afterwards renovated. THE PHARYNX. The pharynx is that part of the alimentary canal which unites the cavities of the mouth and nose to the oesophagus. It extends from the base of the skull to the loAver border of the cricoid cartilage, and forms a sac open at the lower end, and imperfect in front, where it presents apertures leading into the nose, mouth and larynx. The velum pendulum palati projects backwards into the pharynx, and * Arch. f. mikr. Anat. Y. ; and article, "Salivary Glands," in Strieker's Handbook.