EXTERNAL SURFACE. 525 the under surface of the brain, close to the anterior perforated spot, and passes transversely outwards to the lateral surface of the hemi- sphere, where it divides into a short anterior ascending limb, and a longer' posterior horizontal limb. The fissure in the base is a deep cleft, of which the posterior lip projects over the anterior. This part differs from other fissures in being due to a fold of the whole brain in its development, the others being due merely to duplications of the cortical layer. Within the fissure of Sylvius is the isolated group of convolutions of the island of Reil or " central lobe." The anterior or ascending limb (/. Sy. a), about an inch in length, runs upwards and forwards into the frontal lobe, the lowest convolu- tion of which curves round it. The posterior or horizontal limb (/. Sy. p) passes backwards, ascend- Fig. 370. Temporo- Sphenoidal. L. Fig. 370.—Convolutions of Outer Surface of Right Hemisphere. From a simply- convoluted European Brain. About £ The convolutions are, for the most part, indicated by Roman, the fissures by italic letters. The dotted lines indicate the divisions into lobes, the names of which are giveD in full at the margin of the hemisphere. /. Ro., fissure of Rolando ; par.-oc.f., parieto- occipital fissure ;/. Sy. a., anterior limb, and/. Sy. p., posterior limb, of the fissure of Sylvius ; s. fr. c, m. fr. c, i. fr. c, superior, middle, and inferior frontal convolutions ; asc. fr. c, ascending ditto; asc. par. c, ascending parietal convolution ; Sup. par. 1., superior parietal lobules ; s. m. c., supra-marginal convolution ; ang. c., angular convolu- tion; int. par. /., intra-parietal fissure ; s. oc. c, m. oc. c, i. oc. c, superior, middle, and inferior occipital convolutions; s. t.-s. c, m. t.-s. c, i. t.-s. c, superior, middle and inferior temporo-sphenoidal convolutions ; pll. f., parallel fissure; a1, a2, a3, a4, first, second, third and fourth annectant convolutions; c. L., within the fissure of Sylvius, central lobe, or Island of Reil. ing slightly, through the middle third of the hemisphere. Its extremity is usually bent vertically upwards. It separates the parietal lobe above, from the temporo-sphenoidal lobe below it. The group of convolutions, which occupy the angle between the two divisions of the fissure of Sylvius, has been collectively termed the "operculum." The fissure of Rolando (fig. 370, f Ro.) or Central Sulcus, extends