THE BLOOD. 18 and the elements of a vascular tissue, although placed at an appreciable distance from the vessels, may still be organised and living structures, and within the dominion of the nutritive process. How far the sphere of nutrition may, in certain cases, be limited, is a question that still needs further investigation ; in the cuticle, for example, and its appendages, the nails and hairs, which are placed on the surface of the body, we must suppose that the old and dry part, which is about to be thrown off or worn away, has passed out of the limits of nutritive influence ; but to what distance beyond the vascular surface of the skin the province of nutrition extends, has not been determined. Regeneration.—When part of a texture has been lost or removed, the loss may be repaired by regeneration of a new portion of tissue of the same kind ; but the extent to which this restoration is possible is very different in different textures. Thus, in muscle, a breach of con- tinuity may be repaired by a new growth of connective tissue ; but the lost muscular substance is not restored. Eegeneration occurs in nerve; in bone it takes place readily and extensively, and still more so in fibrous, areolar, and epithelial tissues. The special circumstances of the regenerative process in each tissue will be considered hereafter; but we may here state generally, that, as far as is known, the reproduction of a texture is effected in the same manner as its original formation. In experimental inquiries respecting regeneration, we must bear in mind, that the extent to which reparation is possible, as well as the readiness with which it occurs, is much greater in many of the lower animals than in man. In newts, and some other cold-blooded verte- brata, indeed (not to mention still more wonderful instances of re- generation in animals lower in the scale), an entire organ, a limb, for example, is readily restored, complete in all its parts, and perfect in all its tissues. In concluding what it has been deemed advisable in the foregoing pages to- state respecting the development of the textures, we may remark that, besides what is due to its intrinsic importance, the study of this subject derives great interest from the aid it promises to afford in its application to pathological inquiries. Kesearches which have been made within the last few years, and which are still zealously carried on, tend to show that the structures which con- stitute morbid growths are formed by a process analogous to that by which the natural or sound tissues are developed : some of these morbid productions, indeed, are in no way to be distinguished from areolar, fibrous, cartilaginous and other natural structures, and have, doubtless, a similar mode of origin; others, again, as far as yet appears, are peculiar, but still their production is with,much probability to be referred to the same general process. The prosecution of this, subject, however, does not fall within the scope of the present work. THE BLOOD. PHYSICAL AND ORGANIC CONSTITUTION. The most striking external character of the blood is its well-known colour, which is florid red in the arteries, but of a dark purple or modena tint in the veins. It is a somewhat clammy and consistent liquid, a little heavier than water, its specific gravity being 1*052 to 1*057; it has a saltish taste, a slight alkaline reaction, and a peculiar faint odour. To the naked eye the blood appears homogeneous; but, when examined with the microscope, either while within the minute vessels, cr when spread out into a thin layer upon a piece of glass, it is seen to