172 BLOOD-VESSELS. elasticity, and therefore suddenly, but afterwards slowly. The contractility of the smaller arteries, as well as its subjection to the influence of the nervous sys- tem, is beautifully shown in the experiment of cutting- and afterwards stimulating the cervical sympathetic nerve in a cat or rabbit. Immediately after the sec- tion, the vessels of the ear become distended with blood from failure of their tonic contraction : but, on applying the galvanic stimulus to the upper portion of the nerve, they immediately shrink again, and on interrupting the stimulation they relax as before. The tonic contraction of these vessels appears to be main- tained by the medulla oblongata operating through the branches of the cervical part of the sympathetic nerve; it is found, moreover, that stimulation of this so-called " vaso-motor " centre causes marked contraction of the arteries of the body generally, especially the smaller ones. The contractility of the large arteries is not so conspicuous, and many excel- lent observers have failed to elicit any satisfactory manifestation of such property on the application of stimuli to these vessels. Others, however, have observed a sufficiently decided, though by no means a striking degree of contraction slowly to follow mechanical irritation or electric stimulation of these arteries in recently- killed animals. To render this effect more evident, C. J. B. Williams adopted a method of experimenting which he had successfully employed to test the irrita- bdity of the bronchial tubes. He tied a bent glass tube into the cut end of an artery, and filled the vessel, as well as the bend of the tube, with water ; the application of galvanism caused a narrowing of the artery, the reality of which was made manifest by a rise of the fluid in the tube. Cold causes contraction of the larger arteries, according to the testimony of various inquirers ; and, as in the smaller arteries, a gradual shrinking in calibre ensues, when the distending pressure of the blood is taken off, by the extinction or impairment of the force of the heart on the approach of death. From the experiments of C. Parry, it would appear that the contraction thus ensuing proceeds considerably beyond what would be produced by elasticity alone, and that it relaxes after death, when vitality is completely extinct, so that the artery widens again to a certain point, at which it is finally maintained by its elasticity. VEINS. Mode of distribution.—The veins are ramified throughout the body, like the arteries, bat there are some differences in their propor- tionate number and size, as well as in their arrangement, which require to be noticed. In most regions and organs of the body the veins are more numerous and also larger than the arteries, so that the venous system is alto- gether more capacious than the arterial, but the proportionate capacity of the two cannot be assigned with exactness. The pulmonary veins form an exception to this rule, for they do not exceed in capacity the pulmonary arteries. The veins are arranged in a superficial and a deep set, the former running immediately beneath the skin, and thence named subcutaneous, the latter commonly accompanying the arteries, and named vena comites ml satellites arteriarum. The" large arteries have usually one accom- panying vein, and the medium-sized and smaller arteries two ; but there are exceptions to this rule ; thus, the veins within the skull and spinal canal, the hepatic veins, and the most considerable of those belonging to the bones, run apart from the arteries. The communications or anastomoses between veins of considerable size, are more frequent than those of arteries of equal magnitude. Structure.—The veins have much thinner coats than the arteries, and collapse when cut across or emptied; whereas a cut artery presents a patent orifice. But, notwithstanding their comparative thinness, the