UTEBOGESTATIOX. 722 animals, with the exception of the Simiae, in which the structure probably agrees closely with the human, the elements of uterine structure are very clearly present, and the uterine blood-vessels may be recognised as such, not being dilated into wide sinuses or lacunas, but retaining more or less the capillary form of distribution ; al- though in some instances the capillaries have undergone considerable dilatation, and seem to be passing into the condition of venous sinuses. (For a very instructive view of the structure of the placenta in these various animals and their bearing upon the nature of the placental structure in general, the reader is referred to Professor Turner's Lectures on the Structure of the Diffused, the Polycotyledonous and the Zonary forms of Placenta, as published in the Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, vol. x., p. 127, Oct. 1875, and separately, 1876. There may also be consulted Von Baer's Entwickelungsgeschichte, 1839, and Eschricht, De organis quaa Respirationi et Nutritioni Foetus Mammalium inserviunt, Hafniaa, 1837.) Relation of the Uterine Glands to the Placental structure.—It has long been known that in the placentation of various mammals the uterine glands undergo an increased development, and it has been supposed that they enter into structural and functional relation with the foetal villi ; but more precise knowledge is still wanting as to whether, and to what extent this relation is of the nature of an actual penetration of the cavities of developed and dilated glands by the cho- rionic villi. It was shown by Dr. Sharpey (Midlers Physiology by Baly, vol. ii. p. 1574) that thedecidua which enters into the formation of the zonular placenta of the dog, and doubtless of other carnivora, consists of a hypertrophical part of the uterine mucous membrane of corresponding figure, in which the main ducts of the largely developed glands become dilated at their orifices into utricular saccules or pouches, that hollow membranous processes containing foetal vessels rise from the chorion, from among the smaller vascular villi, and apply their flattened summits to the widened mouths of the gland ducts, and enter a short way within the saccules ; while these receptacles are filled with a whitish semi- fluid secretion and are lined with an epithelium, which also covers the intruded part of the foetal process. As pregnancy advances, the chorional and decidual structures are further interlocked, and the arrangement becomes more intricate. Decidual, that is, maternal blood-vessels are abundantly distributed round the villi of the chorion, which they closely cover. These vessels are larger than ordi- nary capillaries ; they are unsupported by decidual stroma, and are separated along with the rest of the placenta in parturition. The observations of Sharpey appeared to receive confirmation from the inves- tigations of E. H. Weber (Zusatze zur Lehre vom Baue, &c, der Geschlechts- organe, 1846,) and Bischoff (Entwick. des Hundeeies, 1845,), and by many these observations have been held to prove satisfactorily a connection between the glands and placental formation. But Dr. Sharpey has expressed himself cautiously on this general question, and more recent observations tend rather to throw doubts on the penetration of the uterine glands by the villi of the chorion. More especially the observations of Ercolani (Mem. of the Acad, of Bologna, 1868 and 1870) and of Turner (loc. cit.) seem to show that it is possible that the saccules described by Sharpey may be formed in the uterine decidua of the car- nivora independently of the glands ; and they are disposed to think that these saccules are produced rather in the interglandular tissue. From an examination of the whole evidence on this point and an investigation of the structure and formation of the placenta in different animals, contained in the lectures previously quoted, Turner has ascertained that in the diffused form of placenta the uterine glands open in the sow into feebly vasctdar intervals between the vascular crypts in which the foetal chorionic fringes are sunk, and not into these crypts them- selves ; that in the mare the glands open on elevated ridges between the vascular crypts which receive the foetal villi, and only in the Cetacea (Orca gladiator) did he find gland apertures in some of the placental crypts. Again, the maternal cotyledons of the ruminants are destitute of utricular glands, and these are confined to the sunk intercotyledonous part of the uterine membrane. In the zonal placenta of the carnivora, as previously stated, Turner failed to trace the uterine glands into the recesses of the decidua which receive the prolongations of the chorionic plates and villi, constituting the foetal portion of the placenta : and