NERVOUS TISSUE. 128 the brain and nerves, and it was accordingly named the white substance by Schwann, and by others, though less appropriately, the medullary sheath. White substance of Schwann or Medullary Sheath.—It is this substance, which appears to be of a fatty nature, that undergoes the most marked change on exposure ; it then seems to suffer a sort of coagu- lation or congelation, and when this has taken place, it very strongly refracts the light, and gives rise to the appearance of a dark border on each side of the nerve-tube (fig. 81, A and c). This border, though darker than the rest of the tube, is nevertheless translucent; it is bounded by two nearly parallel lines, so that the nerve-fibre has a double con- tour. The dark contours pursue a sinuous course, often with deep and irregular indentations ; while straight or curved lines of the same cha- racter, occasioned no doubt by wrinkles or creases occurring in the layer of white substance, are frequently seen crossing the tube. By continued exposure, round and irregular spots appear at various points, and at length the contents of the nerve-tube acquire a confusedly curdled or granulated aspect. The double contour appears only in fibres of a certain size; in fine fibres, which become varicose or dilated at intervals, the double line is seen only in the enlargements, and not in the narrow parts between. It often happens that the soft contents of the tube are pressed out at the ruptured extremities, as in fig. 81, c, 4, and then the round or irregular masses of the effused matter are still surrounded by a double contour, which proves that this appearance is pro- duced independently of the membranous tube. The fine transparent membranous tube, named the primitive sheath, or sheath of Schwann, presents an apparently homogeneous appearance, with nuclei disposed at intervals along its inner surface. So long as this tube is accurately rilled by the contained matter, its outline can seldom be distinguished ; but sometimes, when the white substance separates at various points from the inside of the tube, the contour of the fibre becomes indented and irregular, and then the mem- brane of the tube may, in favourable circumstances, be discerned as an extremely faint line, running outside the deeply shaded border formed by the white substance, and taking no part in its irregular sinuosi- ties (fig. 81, c. 1, 1). The membranous tube may also be distin- guished at parts where the continuity of the contained matter is broken in consequence of traction, squeezing, or like injury of the fibre ; in such parts the double line produced by the white substance is wanting, and the faint outline of the membranous tube may be perceived passing over the interruption (2). The primitive sheath is not found on fibres within the substance of the brain and spinal cord. The axis-cylinder, axis-band, or axial-fibre is situated in, or near, the middle of the nerve-tube, where it may occasionally be seen, on a careful inspection, as a greyish stripe or band, bounded on each side by a very faint even outline, having no share in the sinuosities of the white substance (fig. 81, c). The axis is of a more tenacious consistence than the white substance, and may accordingly be sometimes seen projecting beyond it at the end of a broken nerve-tube, either quite denuded, or covered only by the tubular membrane, the intervening white substance having escaped. In the brain and spinal cord it is especially easy to obtain this appear-