270 THE LUNGS. septum. Upon the inner surface, somewhat above the middle of the lung, and considerably nearer to the posterior than the anterior border, is the root, where the bronchi and great vessels join the lung. Each lung is divided into two lobes by a long and deep fissure, which commences upon the posterior border, about three inches from the apex, and extends obliquely downwards and forwards to the anterior edge, pene- trating from the outer surface to within a short distance of the root. The upper hue is the smaller, and is conical, with an oblique base, whilst the lower is quadrilateral. In the right lung a second and shorter fissure runs forwards and upwards from the principal fissure to the anterior edge, and marks off a small portion, or middle lobe, from the lower part of the upper lobe. The left lung has no such middle lobe, but presents a deep notch in its anterior border, into which the apex of the heart (enclosed in the pericardium) is received. Besides these differ- ences the right lung is shorter than the left, owing to the diaphragm rising higher on the right side to accommodate the liver, whilst the left lung is the narrower, owing to the heart and pericardium encroaching on the left half of the thorax. On the whole, however, as is seen on a comparison of their weights, the right is the larger of the two lungs. At the summits and posterior borders the extent of the lungs cor- responds with that of the pleural sacs which contain them, but in front and below the relation is variable, inasmuch as the anterior margins pass forwards most completely between the mediastinal and costal pleura during inspiration, and retire to a variable degree from between them in expiration ; and in like manner the inferior margins descend, during inspiration, between the costal and diaphragmatic pleuras ; probably at no time do they ever descend completely to the line of reflection between those membranes. Weight, Dimensions, and Capacity.—The lungs vary much in size and weight according to the quantity of blood, mucous, or serous fluid they may happen to contain, which is greatly influenced by the circumstances immediately preceding death, as well as by other causes. .The weight of both lungs together, as generally stated, ranges from SO to 48 ounces, the more prevalent weights being found between 36 and 42 ounces. The proportion borne by the right lung to the left is nearly that of 22 ounces to 20, taking the combined weight of the two at 42 ounces. The lungs are not only absolutely heavier in the male than in the female, but appear to be heavier in proportion to the weight of the body. The general ratio between the weight of the lungs and body, in the adult, fluctuates, according to the estimate of Ivrause, between one to thirty-five and one to fifty. The following tables, deduced from Eeid's and Hutchinson's observations, show the average weight of the right and left lungs, and of both lungs together, and also the relative weight of the lungs to the body in a certain number of adults of both sexes. AVEKAGE WEIGHT IN TWENTY-NINE MALES AND TWENTY-ONE FEMALES.—(REID.) MALE. FEMALE. Right lung . . . . 21 oz 17 oz. Left lung . . . . 21 oz 15 oz. 45 oz. 32 oz.