330 THE TONGUE. The papillas, besides being the parts chiefly concerned in the special sense of taste, also possess, in a very acute degree, tactile sensibility ; and the filiform papillae, armed Fig- 231. with their denser" epithelial covering, serve a mechanical use, in the action of the tongue upon the food, as is well illus- trated by the more developed form which these papillae attain in many carnivorous animals. The papillary sur- face of the tongue is supplied abundantly with nerves. In the papillae fungiformes the nerves are large and nu- merous, and form a plexus with brush-like branches; but they are still more abundant, and of greater size, in the papillae circumvallatae, where they are chiefly distributed in the neighbourhood of the taste- buds (fig. 227). Glands.—The mucous mem- brane of the tongue is pro- vided with numerous small racemose glands called lingual glands, collected principally about the posterior part of its upper surface, near the pa- pillae vallatae and foramen caecum, into which last the ducts of several open. These glands have commonly been supposed to secrete mucus, but it has been recently as- certained that some of them, those, namely, which open in the trenches around the pa- pillae vallatae, and at other parts where taste-buds occur, Fig. 231.—Two Filiform Papilla, one with Epithelium, the other without. 35 Dia- meters. (From Kolliker, after Todd and Bowman). p, the substance of the papillae divided at their upper extremities into secondary papillae ; a, artery, and v, vein, connected by capillary loops ; e, epithelial covering, laminated be- tween the papillae, but extended into hair-like processes, /, from the extremities of the secondary papilla?. yield a more wateiw secretion (Ebner). Other small glands are found also beneath the mucous mem- brane of the borders of the tongue. There is, in particular, a group on the under Surface of the tongue on each side near the apex. They are there aggregated into a small oblong mass, out of which several ducts proceed and open in a line on the mucous membrane. The mucous membrane of the tongue, at least its posterior part, is largely composed of retiform or lymphoid tissue, which is collected at numerous points into the denser nodular masses known as follicular glands, or lymphoid follicles. The blood-vessels and lymphatics of this part of the membrane are numerous and large, but the papillae on its sur- face are comparatively small, and are completely concealed by the thick