FARTHER DEVELOPMENT OF THE UTERUS. 821 become more or less obliterated and abortive in different parts. The most con- stant vestige of the Wolffian bodies in the female is the now well-known body of Rosenmuller or Parovarium of Kobelt (Rosenmiiller, Qusedam de Ovariis Embry. Human., Lipsias, 1802 ; Kobelt, der Nebeneierstock des Weibes, Heidelberg-, 1817), which has already been described at p. 480 of this volume, the epoqphormi of Waldeyer, and which, being- produced out of the same elements as the epididy- mis of the male, presents a remarkable resemblance to that body. The canal uniting the radiating tubes (coni vasculosi) of this organ is also usually persistent, but ceases at a short distance below. In the sow and several ruminants, how- ever, the subdivided upper tubular part or epoophoron has disappeared, and the main tube (middle part of the Wolffian duct) remains in the duct of Gaertner, a strong, slightly undulated tube, which is traceable, first free in the broad ligament Fig. 614. Fig. 614.—Adult Ovarx, Parovarium and Fallopian Tube (from Farre, after Kobelt). a, a, Epoophoron (parovarium) formed from the upper part of the Wolffian body ; b, remains of the uppermost tubes sometimes forming hydatids ; c, middle set of tubes ; cl, some lower atrophied tubes ; e, atrophied remains of the Wolffian duct ; /, the terminal bulb or hydatid ; h, the Fallopian tube, originally the duct of Muller ; i, hydatid attached to the extremity ; I, the ovary. of the uterus, and lower down becoming incorporated with the wall of the uterus and vagina, upon which last it is lost. The Male Passages.—The conversion of the Wolffian duct into the vas deferens of the testicle was first demonstrated in animals by Kathke, in correction of the views of J. Muller (Meckel's Archiv, 1832), and was further proved and illustrated by H. Meckel and Bidder (H. Meckel, Zur Morphol. der Harn und Geschlechts-Organe der Wirbel- thiere, Halle, 1848; Bidder, Male Organs in the Amphibia, Dorpat, 1846). Kolliker showed that a similar process occurs in the human embryo, and that a communication established between the seminal tubes of the testicle (rete testis) and some of the upper tubes of the Wolffian body gave rise to the epididymis. The observations of Cleland and Banks first pointed out clearly the difference between the structure of the upper nongiomerular, or simply tubular part of the Wolffian body, and that of the lower and glomerular, or primordial-kidney part.