STRUCTURE OF THE CHOROID. 590 invests the rest of the structure ; but externally they become gradually narrower, and disappear in the choroid coat. The smaller processes are only half as deep as the others. At and near the internal or anterior extremities the processes are connected by lateral loop-like projections. The plications of the ciliary processes fit into corre- sponding plications of the suspensory ligament of the lens, to be afterwards described. Fig. 407. STRUCTURE OP CHOROID. THE Fig. 407.—Lateral View of the Arteries of the Choroid and Iris (from Arnold). a, optic nerve ; h, part of the sclerotic left behind ; c, region of ciliary muscle ; d, iris ; 1, posterior ciliary arteries piercing the sclerotic and passing along the choroid ; 2, one of the long ciliary arteries ; 3, anterior ciliary arteries. Fig. 403. The choroid consists mainly of blood-vessels united by a delicate con- nective tissue, with nu- merous large ramified cells (for the most part pigmented), united by their branches, and con- taining numerous leuco- cytes in the meshes, like lymphoid tissue. From a difference in the fine- ness of its constituent blood-vessels, the choroid resolves itself into two strata, outer and inner ; the former containing the larger branches, and the latter the capillary ramifications. In the outer part of the coat are situated, as just stated, the larger branches of the vessels. The arteries {short ciliary) are comparatively large and numerous, and pierc- ing the sclerotic close to the optic nerve (fig. 407, 1), divide into branches which are directed at first forwards before they bend inwards to end on the inner part ; whilst the veins (vasa vorticosa), external to the arteries, are disposed in curves as they converge to four or five principal trunks (fig. 408, 1, 1) which pass through the sclerotic about half wav between the margin of the cornea and the entrance of the optic nerve. In the intervals between the vessels are elongated and stellated pigment-cells Fig. 408.—Lateral View of the Veins of the Choroid (from Arnold). 1, 1, two trunks of the vense vorticosse at the place where they leave the choroid and pierce the sclerotic coat.