STRUCTURE OF THE RETINA. G13 mediate neighbourhood of the latter, andjj, from the peripheral part of the retina. The rods and the cones, although differing thus in shape and size Fig. 423.—Outer Surface of the Colum- Fig. 423. Fig. 424. nar Layer of the Retina (Kolliker). 350 Diameters. a, part within the macula lutea, where only cones are present ; b, part near the macula, where a single row of rods inter- venes between the cones ; c, from a part of the retina midway between the macula and the ora serrata, showing the preponder- ance of the rods. Fig. 424.—A Rod and a Cone from the Human Retina (Max Schultze). Highly Magnified. In the rod the longitudinal striation of both the outer and inner segments is shown ; in the cone the transverse striation of the outer segment and the longitudinal of the inner. In both the fibrillation of the inner segment is much more extensive than usual; /, limitans externa. agree in many points of structure. Thus, each consists of two distinct segments—an inner and an outer; the division between the two occurring, in the case of the rods, about the middle of their length (in man); in the cones at the junction of the finer tapering end-piece with the basal part; consequently, the outer and inner seg- ments of the rods are nearly similar in size and shape, the inner being, however, slightly bulged as a rule, whereas the inner segment of each cone far exceeds the outer one in size, the latter appearing merely as an appendage of the inner segment (fig. 424). The two segments both of the rods and cones exhibit well-marked differences, both in their chemical and optical characters, as well as in the structural appearances which may be observed in them. Thus, while in both the outer segment is doubly refracting in its action upon light, the inner is, on the contrary, singly refracting : the inner becomes stained by carmine, iodine, and other colouring fluids, whilst the outer remains colourless. The outer segment in both shows a tendency to break up into a number of minute super-imposed disks, whereas the inner segment is itself again distinguishable into two parts—an outer part, apparently composed of fine fibrils, and an inner part, homoge- neous, or finely granular, and at the membrana limitans externa, directly continued into a rod or cone-fibre, the disposition of which in the outer nuclear layer has been already described. In the outer segments of the rods there can be detected by the aid of a powerful microscope, besides a delicate transverse striation (fig. 422), corresponding to the superposed disks of which, as above indi- cated, they appear composed, also fine longitudinal markings which are due to slight linear grooves by which they are marked in their whole extent. Externally the segment projects into the pigmen- tary layer with a somewhat rounded-off extremity. Internally it is overlapped for a short distance by a delicate fibrillated prolongation