STRUCTURE OF THE PLACENTA. 719 closely united with, and so nearly assimilated in its structure to the villi, that it has been found difficult to follow it with certainty, and its existence has even by many been entirely denied. The relations of these two parts of the placenta, as ascertained by the observation of their gradual development in the growth of the placenta, and their comparative anatomy in animals, will be referred to hereafter. The whole of the placental mass, together with the layer of decidua on its external or uterine surface, and the united decidua vera and reflexa are separated at birth along with the foetus and its membranes. Fig. 522. Fig. 522.—Vertical Section through the middle part op the Placenta and the Uterine Wall (from Farre after Wagner). The preparation was from a woman who died in the thirtieth week of gestation : the lines u, u, run through the wall of the uterus to the outer surface of the placenta ; d, the decidua serotiua ; p, the tufts of foetal vascular villi, of which two larger divisions are separated by decidual septa, as at dp ; /, the placental end of the umbilical cord * am, the amnion ; c7i, the chorion ; vf, divided fetal blood-vessels ; v, stems of vascular villi; us, uterine sinuses or veins ; a, a, coiled arteries passing into the placenta. Circulation of blood in the placenta.—The existence of a distinct circulation of blood in the foetal and in the maternal vessels of the placenta, discovered by the Hunters, has long been placed beyond doubt by the experimental investigations of all those who have injected the two sets of vessels with sufficient care and success. The nature of the distribution of the vessels is very different in the two parts of the placenta. In the tufts of foetal villi, the umbilical arteries and veins, possessed of distinct coats, undergo gradual subdivision by ramification into smaller and smaller tubes, until they at last reach capillary minute- ness, and the terminal capillaries run in long and tortuous loops which VOL. II. 3 A