68 CONNECTIVE TISSUE. Fig. 40. it constitutes the fenestrated membrane of Henle, found in the coats of the blood-vessels. A remarkable character which elastic fibres ex- hibit in many specimens, is their singular tendency to curl up at their broken ends; and these ends are not pointed, but abruptly broken across. Their size is very various; the largest in man are nearly ^^^Voth of an inch in diameter, the smallest perhaps not more than ^4o00th. In some varieties of the tissue the larger sized fibres prevail; this is the case with the ligamenta subflava, where their general diameter is about -ifjVoth of an inch ; in other instances, as in the chordae vocales, they are exceedingly fine. In some animals elastic fibres are met with TjVoth of an inch in thickness. Acetic acid pro- duces no change on the elastic fibres,, while it speedily alters the wavy areolar fibres that are usually intermixed with them in greater or less number. They also withstand boiling for a short time in solutions containing ten to fifteen per cent, of caustic potash or soda, by which the white fibres and the corpus- cles of connective tissue are speedily destroyed. Chemical Composition.—The elastic tissue, of course, contains water, and loses much of its weight by drying ; but the proportion is said not to be so great as in most other soft tissues. By very long boiling it yields a substance in some points resembling gelatin, while a portion, equal to rather more than the half, remains undissolved. The gelatin, no doubt, comes from the intermixed areolar tissue ; but the dis- solved matter is not pure gelatin, for it is precipitated by acetic acid, and by some other re-agents which do not disturb a solution of pure gelatin. The nature of the substance which remains undissolved has not been determined. Caustic potash and soda have little effect on elastic tissue in the cold, and in weak solu- tions even when hot, unless the application is long continued ; boiling in concen- trated solutions speedily dissolves it. It is soluble with the aid of heat in dilute hydrochloric acid. Vessels and Nerves.—The yellow ligaments, which contain this' tissue in its purest form, are but scantily supplied with vessels ; and no nerves have been traced into them. "We are not aware of any experi- ments or observations as to their sensibility, but there is no reason for supposing it to be greater than that of ordinary ligaments ; nor has it been shown that structures containing this tissue possess vital con- tractility, unless they also contain contractile fibres of another kind. Fig. 40.—Elastic Fibres from the Ligamenta Subflava, mag- nified ABOUT 200 DIAMETERS. SPECIAL VARIETIES OP CONNECTIVE TISSUE. 1. Jelly-like connective tissue or mucous tissue. At an early period of development connective tissue consists of a pellucid jelly and nucleated corpuscles. The soft watery jelly contains the chemical principle of mucus, or mucin, and, in much less proportion,.