773 DEVELOPMENT OF THE NOSE. mouth. This stage has been observed by Kolliker in the human embryo •of four weeks. The olfactory groove is enclosed in the anterior ex- tremity of the nasal cartilages prolonged forward from the trabecule •cranii (Parker). Soon, however, by the unequal growth of the sur- rounding parts, the groove so formed, descending from above, passes into the mouth. Thus the middle frontal process is isolated between the grooves of opposite sides, while the lateral frontal process separates the nostril from the eye. The maxillary lobes, growing forwards from behind the eyes, complete the boundaries of the nostrils, which then open into the fore part of the mouth. Kolliker observed this stage in the latter half of the second month. The palate subsequently grows inwards to the middle line, as has been elsewhere stated, and separates the nasal from the buccal cavity ; leaving only the small communication of the incisor foramen. Meanwhile, with the growth of the face, the Fig. 575. A B C Fig. 575.—Views op the Head of Human Embryoes, illustrating the Development op the Nose. A, Head of an embryo of three weeks (from Ecker). «> 1, anterior cerebral vesicle ; 2, middle vesicle ; 3, nasal or middle frontal process ; 4, superior maxillary process ; 5, •eye ; 6, inferior maxillary process or first visceral plate, and below it the first cleft; 7, 8, and 9, second, third, and fourth plates and clefts. B, Head of an embryo of about five weeks (from Ecker). \° 1, 2, 3, and 5, the same parts as in A ; 4, the external nasal or lateral frontal process, inside which is the nasal groove ; 6, the superior maxillary process ; 7, the inferior maxilla ; x , the tongue seen within the mouth ; 8, the first visceral cleft which becomes the outer part of the meatus auditorius externus and tympano-eustachian passage. C, View of the head of an embryo of eight weeks seen from below, the lower jaw having been removed (from Kolliker). f n, the external nasal apertures ; i, premaxillary or incisor process, and to the outer side of this the internal nasal aperture ; m, one of the palatal processes of the upper jaw, which, advancing inwards from the sides, form the partition between the mouth and nose ; ■p, common cavity of the nose, mouth, and pharynx. nasal fossae deepen, and the turbinated bones make their appearance as processes from their walls. The ethmo-turbinal cartilages are at first simple, but rapidly extend themselves to take the more or less complex shape which they present in different animals or in man. Observations are still wanting- to determine whether the olfactory nerves are •developed from the bnlbs, and have thus a cerebral origin, or are separately