CORPUSCLES. 23 Pale, white or colourless Corpuseles (figs. 10 and 13).—These are comparatively few in number, of a rounded and slightly flattened figure, rather larger in man and mammalia than the red disks, and varying much less than the latter in size and aspect in different animals. In man (during health) the proportion of the white corpuscles to the red is about 2 or 3 to 1000. This proportion is diminished by fasting and increased after a meal, especially of albu- minous food. Their number compared with, the red corpuscles is said to be greater in venous than arterial blood, and much greater in the blood of the splenic and hepatic veins than in venous blood generally. They are destitute of colour and specifically lighter than the red corpuscles. In nature they are in many re- spects similar to the embryonic cells already described (p. 8), and they possess in a high degree the capability of undergoing amoeboid movement; sending out processes (fig. 10, g, p) into which their granules enter and re- tracting them again, and even occasionally performing extensive locomotion. The pale corpuscles possess one, two, or, commonly, three nuclei, which are frequently obscured by the granular character of the protoplasm, but may be brought into view by dilute acids (fig. 13). Minute, round, clear spaces may often be seen in the protoplasm (fig. 10); they are entirely free from granules, although probably filled with fluid, and have been named vacuoles. They are also met with in the embryonic as well as in other protoplasmic cells. The colourless blood- corpuscles are commonly distinguished into two kinds, according as the protoplasm composing them is finely granular throughout (fig. 10, p), or contains a greater or less number of coarser granules, strongly refracting the light (g). Whether in the latter case the granules have been formed from fluid matter within the corpuscle, or whether they have not rather been taken in from the surround- ing fluid, by the same process as an amoeba takes in its food, is at present uncertain: it is however an interesting fact that the pale blood-corpuscles are peculiarly apt to take into their interior minute solid particles that have been introduced into the blood; this pro- perty has served as a means of detecting escaped white corpuscles in tissues which are wholly extra vascular, the cornea for example (Cohnheim). Albuminous granules, and molecules of a fatty nature occur in the "blood in varying numbers ; sometimes very scantily, or not at all, but the latter sometimes very abundantly so as to give the serum a turbid, milky appearance. These are probably derived directly from the chyle, and they are especially seen in the blood of herbivora, in sucking animals, and in pregnant women. Granular masses occasionally occur in drawn blood, even when taken from a healthy person, but more especially in cachectic states of the system, which on minute examination are seen to be composed of excessively fine, colourless, discoid particles. The latter under favour- able conditions develope into vibrating filaments which break away Fig. 13. Fig. 13.—Pale Corpus- cles of Human Blood ; magnified about 500 diameters. The upper two as seen in the ordinary manner of examination ; the lower one after the action of dilute acetic acid, which brings into view the single or composite nucleus.