DEVELOPMENT OF BLOOD-VESSELS. 181 nuclei, derived by division from the original nuclei of those cells, imbedded in it here and there. Subsequently the protoplasm spreads out and becomes differentiated around the nuclei into the flattened cells which compose the wall of the capillaries, and which form the lining membrane of the arteries and veins. The remaining coats of the larger vessels are developed later from cells which come to apply themselves to the exterior of the previously simple tubes and produce the plain muscular and other tissues of which those coats consist. The process of formation of the blood-vessels has not been so com- pletely traced within the body of the embryo chick, but there is no doubt that it is in all respects similar. In mammalia they are pro- duced in like manner from vacuolated cells belonging to the con- nective tissue. The most favourable object for the study of the development of the blood-vessels and their contained blood-corpuscles is afforded by the subcutaneous tissue of the new-born rat, especially those parts in which fat is being deposited. Here we observe that many of the connective tissue corpuscles are excessively vacuolated (fig. 122, v), and the protoplasm of some Fig. 122. J' \ J1" Fig. 122.—Development op Blood-vessels and Blood-Corpuscles in the Connective Tissue. From the Subcutaneous Tissue op the new-born Rat, examined in Salt-solution {\ per cent.), and magnified about 350 Diameters. n, n', n", n"\ cells containing blood-corpuscles in various stages of development; in n'', the reddish matter is mainly in two large roundish ill-defined patches ; in n, the haemoglobin globules are of nearly equal size, and fill the cell ; a little above this cell another is seen with three such globules ; the nucleus is also apparent ; n', and n", exhibit in addition a number of vacuoles ; v, vacuolated cell without blood corpuscles, applied to another cell the vacuoles of which have united to form a cavity in which two fully-developed corpuscles are observed ; this cell is joined to the end of the developing capillary vessel c'; c, portion of a fully-developed capillary ; /, /', cells in which fat is being deposited; another is seen to the right of the capillary, between it and fir, fibril- lated cell of the connective tissue ; g, granular connective tissue corpuscle ; I, leucocyte. of them presents a decided reddish tinge. In others the red matter has become condensed in the form of globules within the cells {n, n\