THE BLOOD. 34 ing substance by oxidation and deoxidation, which alters its absorptive effect on the light. Viewed in thin layers by transmitted light, venous blood appears green. It is, therefore, dichroitic. 2. Composition. The arterial blood, so far as is known, is uniform in nature throughout: but in passing through the capillary vessels into the veins, whilst it generally acquires the common characters of venous blood, it undergoes special changes in its passage through particular organs, so that the blood of all veins is not alike in quality. Thus the blood of the hepatic veins differs from that of the portal vein, and both are in various respects different from what might be regarded as the common venous blood, which is conveyed by the veins of the limbs, and of the muscular and cutaneous parts of the body generally. Moreover, Bernard has shown that the blood of veins returning from secreting glands differs according to the state of functional activity of the organs. Whilst their function is in abeyance the blood in their veins is dark, as usual, but when secretion is active, the blood, which then also flows much more freely and abundantly, comes through from the arteries to the veins with very little, if any, reduction of its arterial brightness ; it also retains nearly the whole of its separable oxygen. Compared with blood from a cutaneous vein, arterial blood is found to contain a very little more water (about five parts in 1000) and to have a somewhat lower .specific gravity. The arterial plasma yields more fibrin and coagulates more quickly ; the serum was said by Lehmann to contain less albumin and less fat, but more extractive and a little more saline matter. Arterial blood yields more oxygen gas, and less of both free and combined carbonic acid. Blood of the portal vein , compared with that of the jugular vein, was stated by Lehmann to contain more water in proportion to solid matter, less fibrin and albumin, more fat, extractive matter and salts. The pale corpuscles are vastly more numerous than in venous blood generally. TJie Mood of the hepatic reins, according to Lehmamrs statement, is richer in both red and pale corpuscles, possibly from loss of water, and the proportion of pale corpuscles to the red is increased. The hepatic venous blood, moreover, yields sugar, derived from glycogen formed in the liver. The blood of the renal veins was stated by Bernard and Brown-Sequard not to coagulate in the normal state of the kidney and its function : on trial, however, we find that as regards coagulation it behaves like ordinary venous blood. COAGULATION OF THE BLOOD. In explaining the constitution of the plasma, we have been obliged so far to anticipate the account of the coagulation of the blood. The following are the phenomena which usher in and which accompany this remarkable change. Immediately after it is drawTn the blood emits a sort of exhalation, the " halitus," having a faint smell ; in about three or four minutes a film appears on the surface, quickly spreading from the circumference to the middle ; a minute or two later the part of the blood in contact with the inside of the vessel becomes solid, then speedily the whole mass ; so that in about eight or nine minutes after being drawn, the blood is completely gelatinised. At about fifteen or twenty minutes, or it may be much later, the jelly-like mass begins to shrink away from the sides of the vessel, and the serum to exude from it. The clot continues to contract, and the serum to escape for several hours, the rapidity and degree of the contraction varying- exceedingly in different cases ; and, if the serum be poured off, more will usually continue to drain slowly from the clot for two or three days. The nature of the change which takes place in the coagulation of the blood ias been already spoken of : it is essentially owing to the coagulation of the