232 THE LARYNX. is somewhat compressed laterally, so that the passage through it is here elliptical. The arytenoid cartilages (figs. 188, 189, a) are two in number, and are symmetrical on each side. They may be compared to three-sided pyramids recurved at the summit, resting by their bases on the posterior and highest part of the cricoid cartilage, and with their tips approaching one another. Each measures five to six lines in height, about three in width, and, in the middle of its inner surface, rather more than a line from before backwards. Of the three faces the posterior is broad, trian- gular, and excavated from above downwards, lodging part of the aryte- noid muscle. The anterior, convex in its general outline, and somewhat rough, gives attachment to the thyro-arytenoid muscle, and, by a small tubercle, to the corresponding superior or false vocal cord. The internal surface, which is the narrowest of the three, and slightly con- vex, is nearly parallel with that of the opposite cartilage, and is covered by the laryngeal mucous membrane. The anterior and posterior borders, which limit the internal face, ascend nearly in the same vertical plane, whilst the external border, which separates the anterior from the posterior surface, is directed obliquely upwards and inwards. The lase of each arytenoid cartilage is slightly hollowed, having towards its inner part a smooth surface for articulation with the cricoid cartilage. Two of its angles are remarkably prominent, viz., one external, short, and rounded, which projects backwards and outwards, and into which the posterior and the lateral crico-arytenoid muscles are inserted ; the other anterior, which is more pointed, and forms a horizontal projection forwards, to which the corresponding true vocal cord is attached. The apex curves backwards and a little inwards, and terminates in a Fig. 189. Fig. 189.—Outline showing the Position and Form op the Ary- tenoid Cartilages from behind. One-half the Natural Size. h, hyoid bone ; t, the superior, and t', the inferior cornu, of the thyroid cartilage ; c, placed on the median ridge of the back of the cricoid carti- lage ; a, placed between the two ary- tenoid cartilages, to which the letter points by two dotted lines ; the carti- lages of Santorini or cornicula are shown aboye the upper angles; t r, the trachea. blunt point, which is sur- mounted by a small cartila- ginous appendage named " corniculum laryngis." The cornicula laryngis, or cartilages of Santorini are two small yellowish carti- laginous nodules of a some- what conical shape, which are articulated with the summits of the arytenoid cartilages (fig. 189), and serve as it were to prolong them backwards and inwards. They sometimes form part of the arytenoid cartilages.