MEMBRANES OF BRAIN AND COED. 574 existence of a sort of septum {septum posticum), dividing the subarach- noid space at the back of the cord, the relations of which have been carefully studied by Axel Key and Retzius. It is a thin membranous partition, which passes in the median plane from the pia mater covering: Fig- 395. Fig. 395.—Transverse Section op the Spinal. Cord and its Envelopes (from Sappey after Hirsclifeld and Leveille). 1, dura mater or tlieca ; 2, supposed parietal layer of the arachnoid membrane ; 3, internal or loose arachnoid ; 4 and 7, subarachnoid cavity or space; 5, hinder part of the antero-lateral column ; 6, subdural space between the arach- noid and the dura mater ; 8, supposed reflection of the one fold of the arachnoid into the other ; 9, sheath furnished to the spinal nerve by the dura mater ; 10, posterior ganglionic root ; 11, smaller anterior root; 12, section of the ligamentum denticulatum. This figure does not show the septum which posteriorly divides the subarachnoid space into right and left parts : this would be placed between the arachnoid at 3, and the pia mater covering the posterior surface of the cord. the posterior median fissure of the cord to the opposite part of the loose portion of the arachnoid membrane. It is most perfect in the cervical region, being incomplete below, and consists of numerous fine lamellasr enclosing between them small spaces, within which run the larger blood-vessels. Trabecule connect the nerve-roots with the inner surface of the arachnoid, and in the dorsal region fine membranes extend be- tween the posterior nerve-roots and the posterior septum. The nerves as they pass from the brain and spinal cord receive two sheaths, an outer from the dura mater, and an inner from the arachnoid. Upon the optic nerve these sheaths remain distinct and separate, so that the space which each encloses may be injected, the outer from the sub- dural, the inner from the subarachnoid space. On the other nerves the arachnoidal sheath soon ceases, and the single sheath maybe injected from either the subdural or subarachnoid cavity. Separate sheaths surround each bundle of the larger nerves, and the injection passes readily along the nerves even as far as the limbs. There thus exists a continuity between the ventricles of the brain, the subarachnoid space, the perivascular canals of the cerebral sub- stance, and the perineural spaces within the nerve sheaths. Structure.—When examined under the microscope, the arachnoid is found to consist of distinct riband-like bundles of fine fibrous tissue interlaced with one another. The intervals between these bundles are filled up by delicate membranes, composed of expanded cells, the nuclei of which persist and are scattered over the structure. Several layers of this tissue, arranged in a complex way, constitute the arachnoid mem- brane. The subarachnoid trabecule consist of bundles of similar fine fibrillar tissue, each of which is surrounded by a delicate nucleated sheath, also composed of cells, and continuous with the intertrabecular cell-membranes of the arachnoid itself. Some of the finer trabecular are said to be surrounded by a spiral fibre. The subarachnoid mem- branous expansions have a similar structure. Volkmann has described a rich plexus of nerves in the arachnoid membrane of certain ruminants. Kolliker has failed to detect their presence; but they have been again described by Bochdalek, who traces them to the portio minor of the