FIBROUS TISSUE. 03 FIBROUS TISSUE. Distribution.—This substance is one of those which are serviceable in the body chiefly on account of their mechanical properties, being em- ployed to connect together or to support and protect other parts. It is met with in the form of ligaments, connecting the bones together at the joints ; it forms the tendons of muscles, into which their fleshy fibres are inserted, and which serve to attach these fibres to the bones. In its investing and protecting character it assumes the membranous form, and constitutes a class of membranes termed " fibrous." Examples of these are seen in the periosteum and perichondrium which cover the bones and cartilages, in the dura mater which lines the skull and pro- tects the brain, and the fibrous layer which strengthens the pericardium, also in the albugineous coat of the testicle, and the sclerotic coat of the eye, which inclose the tender internal parts of these organs. Fibrous membranes, named " aponeuroses " or " fasciae," are also employed to envelope and bind down the muscles of different regions, of which the great fascia inclosing the muscles of the thigh and leg is a well-known example. The tendons of muscles, too, may assume the expanded form of aponeuroses, as those of the broad muscles of the abdomen, which form strong fibrous layers in the walls of that cavity and add to their strength. It thus appears that the fibrous tissue presents itself under two principal forms, the fascicular and the membranous. Physical Properties.—The fibrous tissue is white or yellowish white, with a shining, silvery, or nacreous aspect. It is exceedingly strong and tough, yet perfectly pliant ; but it is almost devoid of extensibility. By these qualities it is admirably suited to the purposes to which it is applied in the animal frame. By its inextensible character it maintains in apposition the parts which it connects against any severing force short of that sufficient to cause actual rupture, and this is resisted by its great strength, whilst its flexibility permits of easy motion. Accord- ingly the ligaments and tendons do not sensibly yield to extension in the strongest muscular efforts ; and though they sometimes snap asunder, it is well known that bones will break more readily than ten- dons of equal thickness. The fibrous membranes are proportionally strong and alike inextensible ; they will gradually yield, it is true, when the extending force acts slowly and for a long time, as when tumours or fluids slowly gather beneath them ; but perhaps this gradual extension is accompanied with some nutritive change affecting the pro- perties of the tissue. Structure.—The fibrous tissue is made up of fine filaments, agree- ing in all respects with the white filaments of the areolar tissue already described. Like these they are collected into bundles, in which they run parallel and exhibit the same wavy character, cohering very intimately. The bundles appear to the naked eye as fine shining threads or narrow flattened bands, for they vary greatly in thickness. They either run all in one direction as in long tendons, or intersect each other in different planes as in some aponeuroses, or they take various directions and decussate irregularly with each other as in the dura mater. And when they run parallel to each other, as in tendon, they do not keep separate throughout their length, but send off slips to join neighbouring bundles and receive the like in turn ; so that successive