472 THE OVARIES. is attached to the dense cord already described as the ligament of the ovary, which connects it with the uterus. Its outer extremity is more obtuse and rounded, and has attached to it the middle or ovarian fimbria of the Fallopian tube. Fig. 334.—Section of the prepared Ovary of the Cat (from Schron). f 1, outer covering and free border of the ovary ; 1', attached border ; 2, the ovarian stroma, present- ing a fibrous and vascular structure ; 3, external fibro- nuclear substance ; 4, blood- vessels ; 5, ovigerms in their earliest stages lying near the surface ; 6, ovi- germs which have begun to enlarge and to pass more deeply into the ovary ; 7, ovigerms round which the Graafian follicle and tunica granulosa are now formed, and which have passed somewhat deeper into the ovary and are surrounded by firm fibrous stroma ; 8, more advanced Graafian follicle with the ovum imbedded in the cells of the proligerous disc ; 9, the most advanced follicle containing the ovum, and approaching the surface : 9', a follicle from which the ovum has accidentally escaped ; 10, corpus luteum presenting radiated columns of cellular structure. STRUCTUEE OF THE OVARY. The ovary consists essentially in man, as in all the higher animals, of an ovarian stroma, composed of connective tissue with blood-vessels, nerves, and some muscular fibres, an outer epithelial covering, and the embedded Graafian follicles with the ova. The external surface of the ovary is of a whitish colour, and in early life is comparatively smooth and even; but in later life it becomes more or less uneven and is marked by pits and scars. It is covered by a membrane which, though somewhat different in its minute structure, is originally continuous with the peritoneum. The superficial epithelium of the ovary differs from that of the peri- toneum in the neighbourhood in being decidedly prismatic or columnar: and it gives to the surface a dull appearance as compared with the shining smoothness of the serous membranes in general. A distinct line of demarcation exists at the base of the ovary, where the two kinds of epithelium pass into each other. To this ovarian epithelium, from its relation in early life to the origin of the ova, the name germ-epithe- lium has been given by some authors. Below the outer membrane a firm layer of fibrous tissue, permeated by the superficial blood-vessels, encloses all the deeper parts. This has been compared to the dense fibrous covering of the testicle, and thence named tunica albuginea ovarii, but without sufficient reason, for it is not nearly so strong or distinct. It is in fact no more than a condensed part of the ovarian stroma, and not unfrequently is divisible into several subordinate layers.