167 STRUCTURE OF ARTERIES. have been usually described as formed of three coats, named, from their relative position, internal, middle, and external (fig. 107, in section); and as this nomenclature is generally followed in medical and surgical works, and also correctly ap- plies to the structure of arteries so far as it is dis- cernible by the naked eye, it seems best to adhere to it as the basis of our description; although it will be seen, as we proceed, that some of these coats are found on microscopic examination really to consist of two or more strata differing from each other in texture, and therefore reckoned as so many distinct coats by some authorities. Internal coat (fig. 107, a, Z>). This may be raised from the inner surface of the arteries as a fine transparent colourless membrane, elastic but very easily broken, especially in the circular or transverse direction, so that it cannot be stripped off in large pieces. It is very commonly corrugated with very fine and close longitudinal wrinkles, caused most probably by a contracted state of the artery after death. Such is the appearance pre- sented by the internal coat to the naked eye, but by the aid of the microscope, it is found to consist of three different structures, namely: 1. An epithe- lioid layer (fig. 107, and fig. 108) forming the innermost part or lining. This is a simple layer of thin elliptical or irregularly polygonal cells, which are often lengthened into a lanceolate shape. Nitrate of These epithelioid elements have round or oval preparation, nuclei, with nucleoli: the outlines of the cells are often indistinct in the fresh state, but may be brought into view by means of nitrate of silver. 2. A subepithelial layer (striated layers of Kolliker). This is composed of a homogeneous connective tissue with a greater or less number of branched corpuscles lying in the cell-spaces of the tissue (fig. 109). In some instances the ground substance is striated or even fibrillated, and pervaded by longitudinal elastic net- Fig. 108. — Epithe- lioid Layer Lining Posterior Tibial Artery. 250 Dia- meters. silve Fig. 109. Fig. 109.—Cell-Spaces of Sub-epithelial Layer op Artery (Posterior Tibial). 250 Diameters. The ground substance is staiued by nitrate of silver, and the cell-spaces of the tissue are thus made manifest as white patches, the contained cells not being seen.