THE AQUEOUS HUMOUR. 626 AQUEOUS HUMOUR AND ITS CHAMBER. The aqueous humour fills the space in the fore part of the eyeball, between the capsule of the lens with its suspensory ligament and the cornea. It differs little from water in its physical characters; but it contains a small quantity of some solid matter, chiefly chloride of sodium, dissolved in it. The iris, resting in part upon the lens, divides the aqueous chamber partially into two, named respectively the anterior and 'posterior chambers. This subdivision is incomplete in the adult, but in the foetus before the seventh month it is completed by the mem- brana pupillaris, which, by its union with the margin of the pupil, closes the aperture of communication between the two chambers. The anterior chamber is limited in front by the cornea and behind by the iris, while opposite the pupil it is bounded by the front of the lens and capsule. The posterior chamber was originally so named in the belief that a distinct free space intervened between the iris and the capsule of the lens. It is now, however, well ascertained by observations on the living- eye, and by sections made in the frozen state, that the iris comes into contact with the capsule of the lens, both at the pupillary margin and at the adjoining part of the posterior surface ; and the term posterior chamber can therefore—unless it be employed to indicate the want of continuity between those opposed structures, where no space actually intervenes—only be applied to the angular interval existing at the circumference between the ciliary processes, the iris, and the suspensory ligament.* THE EAR. The organ of hearing is divisible into three parts : the external ear (fig. 440, 1, 2), the tympanum or middle ear (3), and the labyrinth or internal ear (6). The first two of these are to be considered as accessories to the third, which is the sentient portion of the organ. THE EXTERNAL EAR. In the external ear are included the pinna—the part of the outer ear which projects from the side of the head—together with the meatus or passage which leads thence to the tympanum, and which is closed at its inner extremity by a membrane (membrana tympani) interposed between it and the middle ear. THE PINNA. Superficial configuration.—The general form of the pinna or auricle, as seen from the outside, is concave, to fit it for collecting and concentrating the undulations of sound, but it is thrown into various elevations and hollows, to which distinct names have been given. The largest and deepest concavity, a little below the centre of the organ, is called the concha (fig. 441, 7); it surrounds the entrance to the external auditory meatus, and is unequally divided at its upper and anterior part by a ridge, which is the beginning of the helix. In front of the * For the most recent and complete account of the anatomy of all the parts composing and connected with the organ of vision the reader is referred to the elaborate articles by Merkel, Waldeyer, Schwalbe, Iwanoff, and Arnold, in Graefe and Saemisch's Handbuch der gesammten Augenheilktmde ; -which, we may add, has been freely consulted in com- piling the present description.