THE LARYNX. 280 THE LAEYIfX, OH OEGAN OF VOICE. The larynx is placed at the upper and fore part of the neck, where it forms a considerable prominence in the middle line. It lies between the large vessels of the neck, and below the tongue and os hyoides, to which bone it is suspended. It is covered in front by the cervical fascia along the middle line, and on each side by the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and thyro-hyoid muscles, by the upper end of the thyroid body, and by a small part of the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. Behind, it is covered by the pharyngeal mucous membrane, and above it opens into the cavity of the pharynx. The larynx consists of a framework of cartilages, articulated together, and connected by ligaments, two of which, named the true vocal cords, are more immediately concerned in the production of the voice. It also possesses muscles, which move the cartilages one upon another, and modify the form and tension of its apertures, a mucous membrane lining it internally, numerous mucous glands, and, lastly, blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves, besides areolar tissue and fat. CARTILAGES OF THE LARYNX. The cartilages of the larynx (fig. 188) consist of three single and symmetrical pieces, named respectively the thyroid cartilage (h, i), the cricoid cartilage (d), and the cartilage of the epiglottis (/), and of six others, which occur in pairs, namely, the two arytenoid cartilages (a, a), the cornicula laryngis, and the cuneiform cartilages. In all there are nine distinct pieces, but the cornicula and cuneiform cartilages are very small. Only the thyroid and cricoid cartilages are seen on the front and sides of the larynx; the arytenoid cartilages, surmounted by the cornicula laryngis, together with the back of the cricoid cartilage, on which they rest, form the posterior wall of the larynx, whilst the epiglottis is situated in front of, and the cuneiform cartilages on each side of the upper opening. The thyroid cartilage, the largest, consists of two flat lateral plates which are continuous in front, forming a narrow angle with one another like the letter V, most prominent at the upper part. This angular pro- jection is subcutaneous, and is much more marked in the male than in the female, being named in the former the 'pomum Aclami. The two symmetrical halves, named the alee, are somewhat quadrilateral in form : of each half the anterior border where they are joined is the shortest, the pomum Adami being surmounted by a deep notch (see fig. 180) ; the free posterior border is thickened and vertical, and is prolonged up- wards and downwards into two processes or cornua (fig. 188, b, c); it gives attachment to the stylo-pharyngeus and palato-pharyngeus muscles; the upper and lower border have each a well-marked sinuosity close to the cornu : otherwise the upper is convex, and the lower nearly straight. The flattened external surface of each ala is marked by an indistinct ob- lique line or ridge (fig. 188, immediately below e), which, commencing at a tubercle, situated at the back part of the upper border, passes down- wards and forwards, so as to mark off the anterior three-fourths of the surface from the remainder. This line gives attachment below to the sterno-hyoid, and above to the thyro-hyoid muscle, whilst the small smooth surface behind it gives origin to part of the inferior constrictor