THE SKIN. 224 Development of hair in the foetus.—The rudiments of the hairs may be dis- cerned at the end of the third or beginning of the fourth month of intra-uterine life, as little black specks beneath the cuticle. They at first appear as little pits in the corium (fig. 151), filled with cells of precisely the same nature as those of the Malpighian or mucous layer of the cuticle, with which they are continuous ; so it might correctly be said that the hair-rudiments are formed of down-growths of the mucous layer, which sink into the corium. A homogeneous limiting membrane next appears (i), inclosing the collection of cells, and continuous above with a similar simple film which at this time lies between the cuticle and the corium ; it becomes the innermost or hyaline layer of the dermic coat of the follicle. The hair-rudiments next lengthen and swell out at the bottom, so as to assume a flask-shape (fig. 152). Cells are deposited outside the limitary membrane, which eventually give rise to fibres, corpuscles, and other constituents Fig. 152. A B C Pig. 152.—A. Rudiment of a Hair op tee Eyebrow, magnified 50 Diameters (KoUiker). The cells form an internal cone indicating the position of the future hair, a, horny layer of article; b, mucous layer; c, external layer of root-sheath ; i, limitary membrane ; k, papilla. B. —Hair-Rudiment from thr Eyebrow, with the Young Hair not yet risen THROUGH THE CUTICLE. c, hair-knob ; /, stem, and g, point of the hair ; d, internal layer of the root-sheath, still inclosing the hair ; n, n, commencing sebaceous follicles. C. —Hair-Follicle from the Eyebrow with the Hair just Protruded ; the Inner Layer of the Root-Sheath rises to the Mouth of the Hair-Follicle. of the dermic coat. While this is going on outside, the cells within the follicle undergo changes. Those in the middle lengthen out conformably with the axis of the follicle, and give rise to the appearance of a short conical miniature hah, faintly distinguishable by difference of shade from the surrounding mass of cells, which are also slightly elongated, but across the direction of the follicle. The papilla (fig. 152, //) makes its appearance at the swollen root of the little hair; and the residuary cells contained within the rudimentary follicle form the root-sheath, the inner layer of which, or inner root-sheath, lying next