118 MUSCULAR TISSUE. Nerves of small size accompany the branches of blood-vessels within muscles ; though destined for the vessels, these nerves are said some- times to communicate with the proper muscular plexuses. Fig. 77. £. INVOLUNTARY MUSCLES. The involuntary muscular tissue differs from the voluntary kind, not only in its want of subjection to the will, but also in its external characters ; for whilst in many parts it appears in the form of fibres, these, except in the heart and a few instances of less note, are unmarked by the cross lines so character- Fig. 76. istic of the striped fibres; more- over, they are in reality made up of elongated contractile cells cemented together by some kind of uniting medium. Plain or unstriped mus- cular tissue.—This, as has just been remarked, is made up of cells, named contractile fibre-cells, which were first dis- tinguished as the true elements of the tissue by Kolliker. The cells may form fibrous bundles, and strata, or may be less re- gularly arranged, or mixed with other tissues in greater or less proportion. They are of an elongated fusiform shape (figs. 76 and 77), usually pointed at the ends, but sometimes ab- ruptly truncated, and are round- ish or prismatic in transverse section. The cells vary greatly in length according to the part or organ in which they are found. Some occur which are cleft or forked at one end. Their substance is finely granu- lar and commonly exhibits a faint longitudinal striation. It has a smooth soft aspect, and presents no indication of an envelope. Each has a nucleus (a, a), rarely more than one, which is always elongated and either oval or rod-shaped. Towards each end of the nu- cleus the substance of the cell usually contains a few larger granules arranged in linear series. The plain muscular tissue is for the most part disposed between the coats of the membranous viscera, as the stomach, intestines, and bladder, in the parietes of the air-tubes, excretory ducts of glands, and the like. Fig. 77. — Muscular Fibre-Cells from Human Arteries, magnified 350 diameters (Kolliker). a, natural state ; h, treated with acetic acid. Fig. 76.—Muscular Fibre-Cell from the Muscular Coat of the Small Intestine, magnified (Kolliker).