THE AMNION. 703 highest degree of development, and conies in contact for a space with the interior of the chorion. In ruminants it is very soon elongated into two attenuated tubes which extend towards the ends of the ovum. In carnivora it is of considerable size, stretching through the ovum towards its opposite poles. In the human species it retains its vascularity and continues to •grow up to the fifth or sixth week, at which time it has assumed a pyriform shape, and is connected by a tubular vitelline duct with the intestine. But notwithstanding all these varieties of form and development of the yolk-sac in the more advanced stages, we recognise the same fundamental structure and relations to other parts as in oviparous animals. Thus in human embryoes of from two up to four weeks there have been observed the same progressive changes from the wide com- munication of the yolk-sac with the open primitive intestine, to the narrower vitello-intestinal aperture, and the subsequent elongation of this into a tubular vitello-intestinal duct (figs. 511 and 513). The human yolk-sac or umbilical vesicle, which expands proportion- ally with the early increase of the ovum, never, however, surpasses the size of a small pea; in an ovum of from five to six weeks it lies loosely in the space between the amnion and chorion. At a later period, the duct elongating with the umbilical cord, the vesicle remains in the same relation to these membranes : it now also becomes flattened and more closely attached in the narrower space remaining between them. In the third month it is found connected with a coil of intestine which in the form of a hernia occupies the umbilical cord outside the abdomen of the embryo. At a later period the much elongated and attenuated duct with the omphalo-mesenteric vessels, now impervious and shrunk, may still be traced through the umbilical cord, while the flattened vesicle may be found, even up to the end of the term of uterogestatiorj, somewhat further removed from the place of implanta- tion of the umbilical cord on the internal surface of the placenta, but still between the amnion and chorion. The Amnion.—This vesicular covering of the embryo does not exist in amphibia and fishes, but in reptiles, birds, and mammals, it is formed at an early stage of development, and contains a fluid in which the foetus is suspended by the attachment of its umbilical cord or an equivalent uniting medium. The structure of the amnion is essentially similar in the three classes of animals in which it exists and its mode of formation nearly the same. It is destitute of blood-vessels, and consists of two layers, derived respectively, the inner from the epiblast, and the outer from the somato- pleure layer of the mesoblast; the first consisting of distinct nucleated cells, the second presenting a fibrous structure. To its external or fibrous layer it also owes the property of muscular contractility, which it possesses in a considerable degree. The formation of the amnion takes place by the gradual backward inflection from the flat part of the blastoderm adjoining the embryo of the two layers before mentioned, first at the cephalic, and a little later at the caudal extremity and at the sides (see fig. 512, 2, 3, and 4, Jcs, ss, am), so that the two layers of which the amnion is composed are lifted up and separated from the remaining two lower layers (splanchnopleure and hypoblast) of the blastoderm, by a space which is the same as, or rather VOL. II. Z Z