THE CEREBRUM. 538 ■which communicates, through that of the infundibulum, with the third ventricle, This body is constantly present, and has the same connection with the brain in all vertebrate animals. The optic commissure, or chiasma {fig. 875), is constituted by the union of the two optic tracts in front of the tuber cinereum, and from it the two optic nerves proceed. In it the nerve fibres of each side undergo a partial decussation. The larger proportion of the fibres of each optic tract cross over to the opposite side, a smaller proportion proceed to the eye on the same side, and other fibres are said to pass from one optic tract to the other along the posterior portion of the commissure, while others pass from one nerve to the other along the anterior part of the commissure. Thus each angle is rounded by fibres which pass between its adjacent limbs. The optic tracts are said to receive an accession of fibres from the lamina cinerea, and also from the " basal optic ganglion," a collection of grey matter which;lies on the outer side of the tuber cinereum, and is the source of fibres which pass immediately without decussation, to the optic nerve of the same side. In the middle line of the base of the brain, in front of the optic commissure, is the anterior portion of the great longitudinal fissure, which passes down between the hemispheres. At a short distance in front of the commissure, this fissure is crossed transversely by a white mass, which is the anterior recurved extremity of the corpus callosum. On gently turning back the optic commissure, the lamina cinerea is seen, a thin connecting layer of grey substance, occupying the space between the corpus callosum and the commissure, and continuous above the commissure with the tuber cinereum. It is connected at the sides with the grey substance of the anterior perforated space, and forms part of the anterior boundary of the third ventricle : it is somewhat liable to be torn in removing the brain from the skull; and, in that case, an aperture would be made into the fore part of the third ventricle. At a short distance outwards from the lamina cinerea is the anterior perforated space (locus perforatus anticus), a depression near the entrance of the Sylvian fissure, floored with grey matter, and pierced with a multitude of small holes for the passage of blood-vessels, most of which are destined for the corpus striatum,—the adjacent por- tion of the brain beneath which it lies. The grey surface of each perforated space is crossed by a broad white band, which may be traced from the middle of the under surface of the corpus callosum in front, backwards and outwards along the side of the lamina cinerea towards the entrance of the Sylvian fissure. These bands of the two sides are named the jiecluncles of the corpus callosum. Olfactory tract and bulb (figs. 375, 1, and 37G, l').—From the front of the anterior perforated spot a nerve-like process extends—the olfactory tract. It is lodged in a hollow (olfactory sulcus) in the under (orbital) surface of the frontal lobe, close to the longitudinal fissure. It ends anteriorly in an oval swelling—the olfactory bulb, which con- sists chiefly of grey substance, and gives origin to the small nerves which proceed, through the foramina of the ethmoid bone, to the nose. Traced backwards, the olfactory tract is connected with the cerebrum by three roots. The outer root passes, as a white streak, outwards and backwards along the anterior margin of the perforated space, towards