392 THE LIVER. as before said, the branches of the portal vein, and ramify in the outer part of each lobule. When a thin section of the hardened tissue is examined under a high power of the microscope, minute apertures may * occasionally be observed between the sides of adjacent liver cells (fig. 280). These are the sections of fine intercellular passages which form Fig. 2S0.—Section of Liver (Child) hardened in Chromic Acid. Highly magnified (Hering). The liver cells have shrunk somewhat from the walls of the capillaries, which are filled with red corpuscles. Half-a-dozen pale corpuscles are also seen within the vessels. The minute apertures between two cells are the fine bile passages. Fig. 231.—Section of Rabbit's Liver with the Intercellular Network of Biliary Capillaries injected. Highly Magnified (Hering). Two or three layers of cells are represented ; b, b, blood capillaries. a close network (fig. 281) between and around the individual cells, much finer and closer than the blood-capillary network, from the branches of which they run apart. These passages, which have been called biliary capillaries, may be looked upon as the commencements of the biliary ducts, for towards the circumference of the lobule they open into the ducts, and, indeed, may with care be injected from the trunk of the bile duct, at least in the outer parts of the lobule, as first shown by Budge, Andrejewic and MacGillavry. To demonstrate the intercellular network throughout the whole extent of the lobules, Chrzonszczewsky's method of natural injection must be employed. He introduced a saturated watery solution of pure sulph-indigotate of soda, in repeated doses, into the circulation of dogs and sucking-pigs, by the jugular vein ; and in an hour and a half afterwards the animals were killed and the blood-vessels either washed out with chloride of potassium introduced by the portal vein, or were injected with gelatine and camiine. In specimens prepared in this way the fine network of gall-ducts throughout each lobule is filled with