344 THE (ESOPHAGUS. ninth dorsal vertebra, and there ends by opening into the cardiac orifice of the stomach. Form and position.—The length of the oesophagus is about-nine or ten inches. It is of smaller diameter than any other division of the alimentary canal, its narrowest part being at the commencement behind the cricoid cartilage ; it is also slightly constricted in passing' through the diaphragm, but, below that, widens into the stomach. The oesophagus is not quite straight in its direction, but presents three slight curvatures. One of these is an antero-posterior flexure, corresponding with that of the vertebral column in the neck and thorax. The other two are slight lateral curves ; for the oesophagus, commencing in the median line, inclines to the left side as it descends to the root of the neck ; thence to the fifth dorsal vertebra it gradually resumes the mesial position ; and finally, it deviates again to the left, at the same time coming forward towards the oesophageal opening of the diaphragm. Connections.—In the lower cervical and upper dorsal region the oesophagus is applied to the anterior surface of the spine, being con- nected with it and with the longus colli muscle by loose areolar tissue ; between it and the bodies of the upper dorsal vertebras the thoracic duct ascends obliquely from right to left: its lower third is placed in front of the aorta. In the neclc, the oesophagus lies close behind the trachea, and the recurrent laryngeal nerve ascends on either side in the angle between them ; on each side is the common carotid artery, and also a part of the thyroid body, but, as the oesophagus inclines to the left side, it is in more immediate connection with the left carotid. In the tlwrax, the oesophagus is successively covered in front by the lower part of the trachea, by the commencement of the left bronchus, and by the back of the pericardium. The aorta, except near the diaphragm, where the oesophagus is in front of the vessel, lies rather to the left, and the vena azygos to the right; the pneumogastric nerves descend in close contact with its sides, and form a plexus around it, the left nerve proceeding gradually to the front, and the right nerve retiring behind it. Lastly, the oesophagus, which is here placed in the interval be- tween the two pleurae, comes partially in contact with both of those membranes. Structure.—The walls of the gullet are composed of three coats ; viz., an external or muscular, a middle or areolar, and an internal or mucous coat. Outside the muscular coat there is a layer of areolar tissue, with well marked elastic fibres, which is sometimes spoken of as a distinct coat. The muscular coat consists of an external longitudinal layer (seen in section in fig. 242,I?) and an internal circular layer (c). This twofold arrangement of the muscular fibres prevails throughout the whole length of the alimentary canal ; but the two layers are here much thicker, more uniformly disposed, and more evident than in any other part except quite at the lower end of the intestine. The external or longitudinal fibres are disposed at the commencement of the tube in three fasciculi, one in front, and one on each side. The lateral fasciculi are blended above with the inferior constrictor of the pharynx ; the anterior fasci- culus arises from the back of the cricoid cartilage at the prominent ridge between the posterior crico-arytenoid muscles, and its fibres spreading out on each side of the gullet as they descend, soon blend