741 RELATIONS OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. fifth pair or trigeminus, the facial, the glossopharyngeal, and the pneumo-gastrie. The two first are situated in front, and the two latter behind the auditory sac. These nerves all divide or fork above a visceral cleft, one division going to the posterior face of the arch in front of the cleft, the other to the anterior face of the arch behind it. Fig. 540. Fig. 540.—Embryo oe the Chick at the end op the Fourth Day (from Foster and Balfour). The amnion has been removed ; Al, allantois; OH, cerebral hemispheres ; FB, thalamencephalon, with Pn, the pineal gland projecting from its summit; MB, mid- brain ; Ob, cerebellum; IV, V, fourth ventricle ; L, lens ; chs, choroid slit; Oen V, auditory vesicle ; sm, superior maxillary process ; IF, 2F, &c, first, second, third and fourth visceral folds ; V, fifth nerve in two divisions, one to the eye, and the other to the first visceral arch ; VII, seventh nerve passing to the second visceral arch ; Gpli, glossopharyngeal nerve passing to the third visceral arch ; Pg, pneumo-gastric nerve I>assing to the fourth arch ; IV, investing mass ; cli, notochord ; lit, the heart; MP, muscle plates ; W, wing ; HL, hind limb. The orbito-nasal and the palatine divisions of the trigeminus belong to the trabecular arch, the former above, the latter below the optic nerve. Of the other division, one part (the superior maxillary nerve) follows the palato-pterygoid arch, the other (inferior maxillary nerve) accompanies the mandibular arch. The facial nerve (portio dura of seventh pair) divides above the tympano-eustachian passage, its anterior part (chorda tympani) going to the posterior side of the mandibular arch, and its posterior part (descending branch of facial) to the outer or anterior side of the hyoid arch. The glossopharyngeal nerve, by a similar division, goes by its inner or anterior branch (lingual) to the inner or posterior side of the hyoid arch, and by its other division (pharyngeal) to the front of the first branchial or thyro-hyoid arch.