DUE A MATER. 571 is received into the longitudinal fissure between the two hemispheres of the cerebrum. This is the falx cerebri. The second is an arched or vaulted partition, stretched across the back part of the skull, between the cerebrum and the cerebellum ; it is named the tentorium cerebelli. Below this, another vertical partition, named falx cerebelli, of small extent, passes down between the hemispheres of the cerebellum. The falx cerebri is narrow in front, where it is fixed to the crista galli, and broader behind, where it is attached to the middle of the upper surface of the tentorium, along which line of attachment the straight sinus is situated. Along its upper convex border, which is attached above to the middle line of the inner surface of the cranium, runs the superior longitudinal sinus. Its under edge is free, and reaches to within a short distance of the corpus callosum, approaching nearer to it behind. This border contains the inferior longitudinal sinus. The tentorium, or tent, is elevated in the middle, and declines down- wards in all directions towards its circumference, thus corresponding in form with the upper surface of the cerebellum. Its inner border i& free and concave, and leaves in front of it an oval opening, through which the isthmus encephali descends. It is attached behind and at the sides by its convex border to the horizontal part of the crucial ridges of the occipital bone, and there encloses the lateral sinuses. Farther forward it is connected with the upper edge of the petrous portion of the temporal bone—the superior petrosal sinus running along this line of attachment. At the point of the pars petrosa, the external and internal borders meet, and may be said to intersect each other—the former being then continued inwards to the posterior, and the latter forwards to the anterior clinoid process. The falx cerebelli (falx minor) descends from the middle of the- posterior border of the tentorium, with which it is connected, along the vertical ridge named the internal occipital crest, towards the fora- men magnum, bifurcating there into two smaller folds. Its attach- ment to the bony ridge marks the course of the posterior occipital sinus, or sinuses. Structure.—The dura mater consists of white fibrous and elastic tissue, arranged in bands and laminae, crossing each other. In the spinal dura mater the bundles have a more nearly parallel arrangement. A layer of pavement epithelium exists upon its inner surface, which was formerly regarded as belonging to the serous membrane lining it. A similar layer of epithelium also covers both sides of the spinal dura mater. The cranial membrane is traversed by numerous blood-vessels which are chiefly destined for the bones. An extensive system of lymph canals has been described, formed chiefly by the spaces between the fibrous trabecular, and bounded by cellular membranes. Minute nervous filaments, derived from the fourth, fifth, and eighth cranial nerves, and from the sympathetic, are described as entering the dura mater of the brain. Nervous filaments have likewise been traced in the dura mater of the spinal column. (Luschka and Riidinger, quoted by Hyrtl.) THE PIA MATER. The pia mater is a delicate, fibrous, and highly vascular membrane, which immediately invests the brain and spinal cord. Upon the hemispheres of the brain it is applied to the entire cortical surface of the convolutions, and dips into all the sulci, which thus