LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 188 ties in the ground-substance of the tissue containing flattened cells, which do not form a continuous vascular wall. And although the spaces present a very close relation to the lymphatic vessels, they can hardly be considered as actually opening into them by patent orifices, for the lymphatics proper have a complete wall of flattened cells united by a small amount of intercellular substance : at the same time this thin film can offer but a very slight resistance to the passage of fluid from the tissue into the vessel, or even to the passage of leuco- cytes or migrating cells, which, as is well known, penetrate the at least equally closed wall of the blood-vessels. It has been a question whether the cell-spaces of the connective tissue are in every case and completely filled by the cells, or whether they (the spaces) may in some cases be either devoid of cells altogether, or but partially occupied by them ; so that room is left for the free passage of fluid. On this point we would remark that in many cases it is impossible to observe a difference between the forms of the cells as shown by the gold method, and those of the spaces as shown by treatment with solution of nitrate of silver, so that in these, at least, no open lymph-passage can be said to exist; but in other cases the spaces are relatively larger, and here, no doubt, the part unoccupied by the contained cell may be filled by fluid. In oedematous conditions of the tissue, the cell-spaces become somewhat distended with serous fluid, and then in all cases they appear distinctly larger than the cells. So that we may conclude that the so-called saf t-canalchen- or lymphatic- canalicular-system is in many cases rather potential than actual; that is, where the saft-canalchen or lymphatic canaliculi (which correspond with the cell-spaces) are completely filled by protoplasmic cells. Still, lymph can readily find its way between the cells and the ground-substance by which they are closely sur- rounded. In other cases the cells incompletely fill the cavities, so as to leave a freer passage for both fluid and migratory corpuscles. Valves.—The lymphatic and lacteal vessels are furnished with valves serving the same office as those of the veins, and for the most part constructed after the same fashion. They generally consist of two semilunar folds arranged in the same way as in the valves of veins already described, but deviations from the usual structure here and there occur. Valves are not present in all lymphatics, but where they exist they follow one another at much shorter intervals than those of the veins, and give to the lymphatics, when much distended, a beaded or jointed appearance. Valves are placed at the entrance of the lymphatic trunks into the great veins of the neck. They are generally wanting in the reticularly arranged vessels which compose the plexuses of origin already spoken of ; so that fluid injected into one of these vessels runs in all directions, so as to fill a greater or a less extent of the plexus, and passes along the separate vessels which issue from it. The lymphatics of fish and naked amphibia are, generally speaking, destitute of valves, and may therefore be injected from the trunks ; in the turtle a few valves are seen on the larger lacteals which pass along the mesentery, but none on those upon the coats of the intestine ; and valves are much less numerous in the lymphatics and lacteals of birds than in those of mammiferous animals. Orifices.—It was at one time a prevalent opinion among anatomists that the lymphatic and lacteal vessels begin on various surfaces by open mouths, through which extraneous matters are absorbed. This was especially insisted on as regards the commencing lacteals in the intestinal villi. That opinion has been since given up ; but more