200 SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. from the serous cavities of recently killed animals coagulates spontaneously, and tlius resembles the lymph of the lymphatic vessels, and, we may add, the liquor sanguinis or plasma of the blood, the coagulation being, of course, due to the presence of fibrin, or of its two constituents fibrinogen and para-globulin. Hewson, who regarded the fluid as lymph, found that the coagulability diminished as the quantity increased. Hewson made his observations on the fluid of the peritoneum, pleura and pericardium, in various animals, viz., bullocks, dogs, geese and rabbits. When the fluid gathers in unusual quantity as in dropsies, it rarely coagulates spontaneously on being let out; but will often yield a coagulum on the addition of para-globulin as already stated. From this it may be inferred that fibrinogen is present, but not the para-globulin requisite to generate fibrin. The identity in character of the fluid of serous cavities and the lymph-plasma is, it need scarcely be remarked, in keeping with the notion of their being great lymph-spaces in open connection with lymphatic vessels. But this view is quite reconcilable with the mechanical purpose commonly ascribed to these membranes, of lubricating and facilitating the movement of mutually opposed surfaces. When a serous membrane is inflamed, it has a great tendency to throw out coagulable lymph (or fibrin) and serum, the two constituents of the blood-plasma, the former chiefly adhering to the inner surface of the membrane, whilst the latter gathers in its cavity. The coagulable lymph spread over the surface, in form of a " false membrane,*' as it is called, or agglutinating the opposed surfaces of the serous sac and causing adhesion, becomes pervaded by blood-vessels, and in process of time converted into areolar tissue. Breaches of continuity in these membranes are readily repaired, and the newly formed portion acquires all the characters of the original tissue. SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. Resembling serous membranes in some respects, the synovial mem- branes are distinguished by the nature of their secretion, for this is a viscid glaiiy fluid resembling the white of an egg, named synovia. These membranes surround the cavities of joints, and are found in con- nection with moving parts in certain other situations ; their secretion being in all cases intended to lessen friction, and thereby facilitate motion. The different synovial membranes of the body are referred to three classes, viz., articular, vesicular, and vaginal. 1. Articular synovial membranes, or Synovial capsules of joints.—These by their synovial secretion lubricate the cavities of the diarthrodial articulations, that is, those articulations in which the opposed surfaces glide on each other. In these cases the membrane may be readily seen covering internally the surface of the capsular and other ligaments which bound the cavity of the joint, and affording also an investment to the tendons or ligaments which happen to pass through the articular cavity, as in the instance of the long tendon of the biceps muscle in the shoulder-joint. On approaching the articular cartilages the membrane does not pass over these, but terminates after advancing but a little way on their surface, with which it is here firmly adherent. ►So that, it will be seen, the synovial membranes do not form closed bags lying between the articular cartilages as was supposed by the older anatomists, for the main part of the surfaces of the joints are not covered at all by the membrane, nor even by a layer of epithelioid cells, prolonged from the membrane, as some have supposed. In several of the joints, folds of the synovial membrane, often containing more or less fat, pass across the cavity ; these have been called synovial or mucous ligaments. Other processes of the membrane simply project into the cavity at