85 STRUCTURE. The lacunae, as already stated, are minute recesses in the bone, and the lines extending from them are fine pores or tubes named " canaliculi," which issue from their cavity. The lacunae present some variety of figure, but in such a section as that represented they for the most part appear irregularly fusiform, and lie nearly in the same direction as the lamella? between which they are situated ; or, to speak more correctly, Fig. 49. Fig. 49.—Transverse Section of Compact Tissue (op humerus) magnified about 150 diameters. Three of the Haversian canals are seen, with their concentric rings ; also the corpuscles or lacuna?, with the canaliculi extending from them across the direction of the lamellae. The Haversian apertures had become filled with debris in grinding down the section, and therefore appear black in the figure, which represents the object as viewed with trans- mitted light. the little cavities are flattened and extended conformably with the lamellae ; for when the bone is cut longitudinally, their sections still appear fusiform and lengthened out in the direction of the lamellae. The canaliculi, on the other hand, pass across the lamellae, and they commmiicate with those proceeding from the next range of lacunae, so as to connect the little cavities with each other; and thus since the canaliculi of the most central range open into the Haversian canal, a system of continuous passages is established by these minute tubes and their lacunae, along which fluids may be conducted from the Haversian canal through its series of surrounding lamellae ; indeed, it seems probable that the chief purpose of these minute passages is to allow nutrient matter to be conveyed from the vascular Haversian canals through the mass of hard bone which lies around and between them. In like manner the canaliculi open into the great medullary canal, and into the cavities of the cancellated texture ; for in the thin bony parietes of these cavities lacunae are also contained; they exist, indeed, in all parts of the bony tissue. As first shown