220 THE SKIN. dually smaller towards the point. The length and thickness vary greatly in different individuals and races of mankind as well as in different regions of the body. Light-coloured hair is usually finer than black. The stem is covered with a coating of finely imbricated scales, the upwardly projecting edges of which give rise to a series of fine waved transverse lines, which may be seen with the microscope on the surface of the hair (fig. 146, a). Within this scaly covering, by some called the hair-cuticle, is a fibrous substance which in all cases constitutes the chief part and often the whole of the stem ; but in many hairs the axis is occupied by a substance of a different nature, called the medulla or pith, for which reason the surrounding fibrous part is often named " cortical," although this term is more properly applied to the super- ficial coating of scales above mentioned. The fibrous substance is translucent, with short longitudinal opaque streaks of darker colour intermixed. It may be broken up into straight, rigid, longitudinal fibres, which, when separated, are found to be flattened, broad in the middle and pointed at each end, with dark and rough * edges. The fibres may be resolved into flattened cells of a fusiform outline; these are mostly transparent, or marked with only a few dark specks. The colour of the fibrous substance is caused by oblong patches of pigment- granules, and generally diffused colouring matter of less intensity. Very slender elongated nuclei are also discovered by means of reagents, whilst specks or marks of another description in the fibrous substance are occasioned by minute irregularly shaped cavities containing air. These air-lacunules are abundant in white hairs, and in very dark hairs may be altogether wanting; they are best seen too in the former, in which there is no risk of deception from pigment-specks. Viewed by transmitted light they are dark, but brilliantly white by reflected light. When a white hair has been boiled in water, ether, or oil of turpentine, these cavities become filled with fluid, and are then quite pellucid; but when a hair which has been thus treated is dried, the air quickly finds its way again into the lacunas, and they resume their original aspect. The medulla or pith, as already remarked, does not exist in all hairs. It is wanting in the fine hairs over the general surface of the body, and is not commonly met with in those of the head; nor in the hairs of children under five years. When present it occupies the centre of the shaft and ceases towards the point. It is more opaque and deep- coloured than the fibrous part; in the white hairs of quadrupeds it is white, but opaque and dark when seen by transmitted light. It seems to be composed of little clusters of cells, differing in shape, but gene- rally angular, and containing minute particles, some resembling pigment- granules, and others like very fine fat granules, but really for the most part air particles, apparently included in some solidified tenacious sub- stance. The whole forms a continuous dark mass along the middle of the stem, interrupted at parts for a greater or less extent. In the latter case, the axis of the stem at the interruptions may be fibrous like the surrounding parts, or these intervals may be occupied by a clear colour- less matter; and, according to Henle, some hairs present the appear- ance of a sort of canal running along the axis and filled in certain parts with opaque granular matter, and in others with a homogeneous trans- parent substance. The root of the hair is lighter in colour and softer than the stem ;