730 DEVELOPMENT OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. thrown into connection with the anterior half of the one next following, and thus each permanent body is formed from parts of two protovertebral masses ; while in respect to the arches, each one proceeds from the hinder segment of the anterior of the two protovertebree concerned, the spinal ganglion and root being thrown into connection with the hinder part of the permanent vertebra imme- diately in front of the protovertebra of which they originally formed a part. Formation of Vertebral Matrices.—While the material for the vertebral bodies is laid down round the notochord, a further extension ■of mesoblastic substance from the primordial vertebral plates takes place at the sides and round the medullary cavity for the matrix of the vertebral arches, and in due course, by differentiation of the formative cells, chondrification of the substance occurs in the form of the strips which constitute the first rudiments of the vertebral arches, and the accompanying transverse and other processes. The first ossification of these bones is from cartilage, but doubtless in them, as in other bones, much of the subsequent growth and extension of the bone substance proceeds from sub-periosteal deposit. It is also to be remarked that in some bones originating in membrane, cartilage may subsequently contribute to the growth and extension of the bone, as appears to occur in the lower jaw and clavicle. The chondrification of the formative matrix of the bones in the human embryo takes place chiefly during the fifth and sixth weeks of foetal life, and in the seventh and eighth, ossification has begun in several of the long bones. But even before this time an ossific deposit shows itself in the fibrous matrix of the clavicle and lower jaw. By the ninth week the greater number of the bones have begun to ossify. The formation of cartilages for the arches of the vertebras begins first in those of the dorsal region, and spreads from these forwards into the cervical vertebras and basis of the skull, and backwards * into the lumbar and sacral vertebras : but the extension of the matrix upwards ceases in the lower sacral and coccygeal region where the arches are deficient. A small cartilaginous band forms the matrix of the subcentral por- tion or anterior arch of the atlas vertebra, quite distinct from that of the body of the axis, and out of the line of prolongation of the noto- chord. In the lateral plates the cartilaginous matrices of the ribs are formed in connection with those of the transverse processes, and in the verte- bral part of the ribs themselves ossification is comparatively early; but a considerable part remains unossified in the sternal portion, or costal cartilages, in connection with their special use in the mechanism of the respiratory movements. Certain portions of the transverse parts of the cervical and lumbar vertebras are undoubtedly homologous with ribs ; but we give the name only to those costal bars which are separately articulated to the verte- bras, and the first of the vertebras with which a rib reaching the sternum is articulated is reckoned as dorsal. Among the thoracic ribs a certain number, as elsewhere stated, of the cartilaginous matrices behind the first, are in the commencement united together at their ventral extre- * Here and elsewhere, unless otherwise explained, the terms used to indicate position apply to the primitive prone position of the embryo as it lies in the blastoderm, the dorsal aspect upwards and the ventral downwards.