PRODUCTION OF CELLS. the embryo cells in order to the production of the various textures of which the animal body is composed, it will be convenient to consider the manner in which the cells themselves are produced, and the nature of the substance composing them. Production of Embryo Cells.—So far as is at present known, every cell in the animal body has been derived from a previously existing cell. In the case of the cells which compose the early embryo this parent cell is, as has been previously pointed out, the ovum itself, or at least its germinative part. The mammalian ovum differs indeed from the cells we have just been considering, both in its size, and in possessing a stout external membrane (fig. 5 a). Like them, however, it mainly consists of a protoplasmic substance (b), in which are embedded fatty granules (the yelk), and contains structures (the germinal vesicle (c) and germinal spot), which are comparable respectively to the nucleus and nucleolus. Fig. 5. E F Fig. 5.—Diagrammatic Figures to illustrate the Formation of Cells within the Mammalian Ovum by Segmentation op the Yelk ; magnified. a, external membrane ; b, protoplasmic contents ; c, germinal vesicle containing the germinal spot. The embryonic cells are produced from the ovum by a process of cleavage or segmentation, of which the following is an outline :— The germinal vesicle disappears ; the contents of the ovum then shrink somewhat and separate into two equal parts (b) ; the first two segments divide each again into two (c), and the binary division thus goes on (d, e,) pretty regularly until the whole is transformed into a number of small segments, the embryonic cells, each consisting, as we have seen, of protoplasmic matter enclosing a nucleus. The latter is not always discoverable in the earlier segments, being perhaps hidden by the opaque granular mass, but it soon comes into view, and has been supposed to play an important part in the formation of the cells. At all events it may be observed, in those segments in which the nucleus is visible, that the division of this body precedes that of the protoplasmic substance. Whether the first nucleus is itself derived from the vanishing germinal vesicle and spot is unknown.