FARTHER DEVELOPMENT OF THE TESTICLE. 815 The distinction of sex begins to be perceptible in the internal organs of the human embryo in the seventh week, and becomes more apparent in the eighth. The reproductive gland is from the first connected with the Wolffian body, of which its blastema seems to be actually a part ; and it remains attached to it, or after its disappearance to the structure which occupies its place, by a fold of the peritoneal membrane, consti- tuting the mesorchium or mesovarium. Upper and lower bands fix the Wolffian body; the upper passing to the diaphragm may be named the diaphragmatic ; the lower running down towards the groin from the Wolffian duct, contains muscular fibres and constitutes the future gubernaculum testis and round ligament of the uterus. The Testicle.—In male embryoes at the tenth week already seminal canals are visible, being at first, according to Kolliker, entirely composed of cells, but by the eleventh and twelfth weeks the tubes have become somewhat smaller, longer, and are now branched and possess a mem- rbrana propria. There is also by the end of the third month a com- mencement of lobular division, and the body of the testis is now covered with a condensed layer of fibrous tissue which forms the tunica .albuginea. In connection with the development of the spermatic filaments or spermatozoa, the essential part of the male reproductive element, previously referred to at p. US of this volume, it may here further be stated that renewed researches by Neumann (Archiv fur Microsc. Anat., vol. xi., p. 292), appear to show that the doubts thrown by Sertoli and Merckel on the statements of V. Ebner are not well founded, that there really exist within the seminal ducts protoplasmic •columns stretching from within the wall of the tube into its cavity, and that the spermatic filaments are produced in connection with the inner ends of the columns as branched lobes, amounting in general to ten or twelve in number, in which the heads lie outwards imbedded in the protoplasmic stalk, and the fila- ments or tails are directed inwards towards the central lumen of the tube. Each stalk, or spermatoblast, as Neumann proposes to name it, possesses a large clear nucleus with nucleolus, and previous to the formation of the heads there are nuclei corresponding in number to them, which do not, however, appear to arise directly from division of the main nucleus of the stalk, but rather to be formed as free nuclei in the protoplasm. Each spermatozoon consists of three parts, which are most easily distinguished in those which have not reached their stage of full development. These parts are, 1st, the head, or, as it may from its form in some animals be called, the hook ; 2nd, the body or middle part, forming a slight thickening, and frequently of a vesicular appearance ; and 3rd, the fila- ment or tail. The first of these proceeds more immediately from a nucleus' the second is the remains of the protoplasmic covering of a spermatoblastic lobe, the third is a ciliated production from the last. The bases of the spermatoblasts are attached to the inner surface of the fibrous coat of the seminal canals, to which they furnish a complete lining, being set closely upon it like a layer of hexagonal plates. The stalks rise as tapering processes from these plates, and in the inter- vals between the stalks, necessarily largest towards the periphery, there is a number of opaque granular spherical cells, the exact nature of which is not ascertained, but which it is conjectured may be the source of new sper- matoblasts. An interesting view is presented by Neumann of the analogy of these sperma- toblasts of the seminal tubes with the much elongated ciliated cells which are found in the canals of the coni vasculosi and tube of the epididymis, in accord- ance with which it may be held that the spermatic filaments are a peculiar form of ciliary structure, developed from protoplasmic elements of a cellular nature, but which undergo a peculiar modification in connection with the special destination, of the spermatozoa. VOL. II. 3 G