303 STBUCTUBE OF THE BILE DUCTS. hlue, while the intervening- cells remain free from colour. By killing the animals sooner after the injection, the blue colouring matter was found within the hepatic cells, thus demonstrating that it was through their agency that the canals were filled. Further experiments were made in animals in which the portal vein and hepatic artery respectively had been tied, and the result obtained was that, when the hepatic artery had been tied, the peripheral parts of the lobules showed the blue canals, while the centre of each was left colourless ; and that, when the portal vein had been tied, the reverse effect was produced—the centre of each lobule showing blue canals, while in the intervening spaces only the larger ducts were seen, showing that, as previously stated, the capillary network of the lobules is in part supplied directly by the hepatic artery. It is still a matter of doubt whether the intercellular passages above described possess proper walls distinct from the cells, or whether they are to be regarded as mere channels formed by the apposition of corre- sponding grooves on the sides of the cells, but the balance of evidence appears to be in favour of the former supposition. It is worthy of remark that the biliary capillaries are almost always found on the flattened surfaces, seldom or never running along the corners of the cells. Lymphatics of the Liver.—Lymphatics are seen on the prolonga- tions of Glisson's capsule between the lobules (interlobular), where they accompany the blood-vessels, and in some cases surround and enclose them. They originate from the spaces around the capillaries of the lobules (p. 391). In the pig's liver lymphoid follicles have been noticed by Kisselew and Chrzonszczewsky, in connection with the interlobular lymphatics. These deep lymphatics unite into larger vessels which run along the portal canals and emerge at the portal fissure. They are in communication with a close subperitoneal plexus on the under surface of the organ. The corresponding plexus on the upper surface communicates, through the ligaments of the liver, with the thoracic lymphatics. Structure of the Ducts.—The larger bile-ducts have strong dis- tensible areolar coats, containing abundant elastic tissue, and the largest, a certain amount of plain muscular tissue. They are lined with columnar epithelium. The minute ramifications between the lobules have walls composed simply of a basement membrane, with a lining of columnar epithelium. As they pass into the lobules, however, this columnar epithelium becomes shorter and broader, and approaches more and more in character to the hepatic cells, at the same time filling up the tube so that only a very small passage is left. The basement membrane is no longer complete, and the intercellular bile passages open freely into the minute ducts. In the portal canals, where they are somewhat larger, the ducts present numerous openings on the inner surface, which are scattered irregularly in the larger ducts, but in the subdivisions are arranged in two longitudinal rows, one at each side of the vessel. These openings were formerly supposed to be the orifices of mucous glands ; but while the main ducts are studded with true mucous glands of lobulated form and with minute orifices, the openings now referred to belong to saccular and tubular recesses, which are often branched and anastomosing, and may be beset all over with csecal projections (Theile). Sappey and Henle, who have made these recesses the subject of special investigation, find that they are so numerous as sometimes to conceal the parent tube, and on this Henle was led to base a suggestion (System. Anat.) that they and not the liver cells are engaged in the secretion of bile.