287 THE VOCAL CORDS. is situated on a level with the lower part of the arytenoid cartilages, and is bounded by the true vocal cords. Above the glottis, another pair of projecting folds is seen, the superior or false vocal cords, which are much thinner and weaker and less projecting than the inferior, and are Pig. 192.—Perspective View op the Pharyngeal Opening into the La- rynx FROM ABOVE AND BEHIND (Allen Thomson.) The superior aperture has been much dilated ; the glottis is in a moderately dilated condition ; the wall of the pha- rynx is opened from behind and turned to the sides. 1, body of the hyoid bone ; 2, small cornua ; 3, great cornua; 4, upper and lower cornua of the thyroid cartilage ; 5, membrane of the pharynx covering the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage ; 6, upper part of the gullet ; 7, membranous part of the trachea ; 8, projection caused by the cartilage of Santorini ; 9, the same be- longing to the cartilage of Wrisberg ; 10, aryteno-epiglottidean fold ; 11, cut mar- gin of the wall of the pharynx ; a, free part of the epiglottis ; a', its lower pointed part ; a", the cushion ; 6, eminence on each side over the sacculus or pouch of the larynx; b', the ventricles ; c, the glottis : the lines on each side point to the vocal cords. arched in form. Bounded by the superior and inferior vocal cords are two deep oval depres- sions, one on each side of the glottis, named the sinuses, or ventricles, of the larynx (fig. 190, s, and fig. 192, b') ; and leading upwards from the an- terior parts of these depressions, external to the superior vocal cords, sie two small culs-de-sac, named the laryngeal pouches or sacculi (fig. 190, s'). The superior vocal cords, also called the false vocal cords, because they are not immediately concerned in the production of the voice, form on each side a free crescentic margin, bounding the corresponding- ventricle of the larynx, the hollow of which is seen on looking down into the laryngeal cavity, the superior vocal cords (cvs, fig. 191) being- further apart than the inferior. The inferior or true vocal cords, the structures by the vibration of which the sounds of the voice are produced, bound the two anterior thirds of the aperture of the glottis (fig. 192, c). The mucous mem- brane covering them is so thin and closely adherent as to show the yellowish colour of the ligaments through it. Their free edges, which are sharp and straight, and directed upwards, form the lower boundaries of the ventricles, and are the parts thrown into vibration during the pro- duction of the voice. Their inner surfaces are flattened, and look towards each other. VOL. II. u