ENCEPHALON. 580 and Reid, furnish this interesting general result. In a series of 81 males, the average proportion between the weight of the brain and that of the body at the ages of twenty years and upwards, was found to be as 1 to 36'5 ; and in a series of 82 females, to be as 1 to 36*46. In these cases the deaths were the result of more or less prolonged disease ; but in six previously healthy males, who died suddenly from disease or accident, the average proportion was 1 to 40-8. The proportionate weight of the brain to that of the body is much greater at birth than at any other period of life, being, according to Tiedemann, about 1 to 5'85 in the male, and about 1 to 6\5 in the female. From the observations already referred to, it further appears that the proportion diminishes gradually up to the tenth year, being then about 1 to 14. From the tenth to the twentieth year, the relative increase of the body is most striking, the ratio of the two being at the end of that period about 1 to 30. After the twentieth year, the general average of 1 to 36'5 prevails, with a further trifling decrease in" ad- vanced life. Viewed in relation to the weight of his body, the brain of man may be stated generally to be heavier than the brains of the lower animals ; but there are some exceptions to the rule, as in the case of certain species of small birds, in the smaller apes, and in some small rodent animals. The attempts hitherto made to measure or estimate the relative proportions of the different convoluted parts of the cerebrum to each other and to the degree of intelligence, either more directly or by the cranioscopic methods, have been attended with little success. The more recent researches of Rudolph Wagner, which have been farther prosecuted by his son, hold out some promise, when fully carried out, to afford more definite results. These researches had for their object to institute an accurate comparison be- tween the brains of certain persons of known intelligence, cultivation, and mental power, and those of persons of an ordinary or lower grade. As exam- ples of brains of men of superior intellect, he selected those of Professor Gauss, a well-known mathematician of eminence, and Professor Fuchs, a clinical teacher ; and as examples of brains of ordinary persons, those of a woman of 21) and a workman named Krebs, all of which he examined and measured with scrupulous care. The general result of R. Wagner's researches upon these and other brains may be stated to be as follows. 1st. Although the greatest number of brains belong- ing to men of superior intellect are found to be heaviest or largest, yet there are so many instances in which the brains of such persons have not surpassed, or have even fallen below the average size of the brains of ordinary persons, that superiority of size cannot in the present state of our knowledge be regarded as a constant accompaniment of superiority of intellect, even when due regard has been paid to the comparative stature and other circumstances of the in- dividuals. 2nd. It would appear that, in the brains of certain persons of superior intellect, the cerebral convolutions have been found more numerous and more deeply divided than in those of persons of ordinary mental endowments and without cultivation. But numerous exceptional instances are also found of paucity of convolutions coincident with superior intellect, which make it impossible at present to deduce any certain conclusion with respect to the relation between the number or extent of the convolutions and the iintellectual manifestations in different persons. The careful measurement of all the convolutions and the intervening grooves in the four brains above mentioned has been carried out by the younger Wagner, and the tables and results of these measurements published by him as an appendix to his father's treatise. (Hermann Wagner, " Maasbestimmungen der Oberflache des Grossen Gehirns," &c, Cassel und Gottingen, 1864.) The following short table extracted from Hermann Wagner's memoir, and simplified by the omission of small fractions and by the reduction of the mea- surements from square millimetres to English square inches, may give the reader some idea of the nature of the inquiry.