19 COKPUSCLES. consist of a transparent colourless fluid, named the "lymph, of the blood," " liquor sanguinis," or " plasma," and minute solid particles or corpuscles immersed in it. These corpuscles are of two kinds, the coloured and the colourless : the former are by far the more abundant, and have been long known as " the red particles," or " globules," of the blood ; the " colourless," " white," or " pale corpuscles," on the other hand, being fewer in number and less conspicuous, were later in being generally recognised. When blood is drawn from the vessels, the liquor sanguinis separates into two parts ;—into fibrin, which becomes solid, and a pale yellowish liquid named serum. The fibrin in solidify- ing involves the corpuscles and forms a red consistent mass, named the clot or crassamentum of the blood, from which the serum gradually separates. The relation between the above-mentioned constituents of the blood in the liquid and the coagulated states may be represented by the subjoined scheme :— Liquid blood Corpuscles .Liquor sanguinis Clot 'Fibrin .Serum - Coagulated blood. E,ed Corpuscles.—These are not spherical, as the name " globules by which they have been so gene- rally designated, would seem to imply, but flattened or disk- shaped. Those of the human blood (fig. 10 and fig. 12 a) have a nearly circular outline, like a piece of coin, and most of them also present a shallow cup-like depression or dimple on both sur- faces ; their usual figure is, there- fore, that of biconcave disks. Their magnitude differs somewhat even in the same drop of blood, and it has been variously assigned by authors; but the prevalent size may be stated at from ^Voth to o^h °f ^n mcn in diame- ter, and about one-fourth of that in thickness. In mammiferous animals gene- rally, the red corpuscles are shaped as in inan, except in the camel tribe, in which they have an ellip- tical outline. In birds, reptiles, and most fishes, they are oval disks with a central elevation on both surfaces (fig. 12, b, from the frog), the height and ex- tent of which, as well as the proportionate length and breadth of c 2 10.—Human Stage. Diameters. c, c, crenate red corpuscles ; p, a finely granular, g, a coarsely granular pale cor- puscle. Both exhibit two or three vacuoles, in g, a nucleus also is visible.