822 DEVELOPMENT OF THE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS. v s, the vesicula semi- In the male, the Miillerian ducts are destined to undergo little development and are of no physiological importance, while the ducts of the Wolffian bodies, and probably also some part of their glandular substance, form the principal part of the excretory apparatus of the testicle. The united portion of the Miillerian ducts remains as the vesicula prostatica, which accordingly not only corresponds with the uterus, as was shown by Weber, but likewise, as pointed out by Leuckart^. contains as much of the vagina as is represented in the male. In some animals the vesicula prostatica is prolonged into comua and tubes ; but in the human subject the whole of the ununited parts of the Miillerian ducts disappear, except- ing, as suggested by Kobelt, their upper extremities, which seem to be the source of the hydatids of Morgagni. The excretory duct of the Wolffian body, from the base of that body to its orifice,,is converted into vas deferens and ejaculatory duct, the vesicula seminalis being formed as a diverticulum from its lower part (Waldeyer). With respect to the formation of the epididymis, it appears certain that the larger convoluted seminal tube, which forms the body and globus minor of the epididymis, arises by a change or adaptation of that part of the Wolffian duct which runs along the outer side of the organ. The vas aberrans or vasa aber- Fig. 615.—Diagram of the Male Type of Sexual Organs. 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, as in figure 612 ; t, testicle in the place of its original formation ; e, caput epididymis ; v d, vas deferens ; W, scat- tered remains of the Wolf- fian body, constituting the organ of Griraldes, or the paradidymis of Waldeyer; v h, vas aberrans ; m, Miillerian duct, the upper part of which remains as the hydatid of Morgagni, the lower part, repre- sented by a dotted line descending to the pro- static vesicle, consti- tutes the cornu and tube of the uterus masculinus ; g, the gubernaculum ; nalis ; p r, the prostate gland ; C, Cowper's gland of one side ; c p, corpora cavernosa penis cut short ; s p, corpus spongiosum urethra?; s, scrotum ; t', together with the dotted lines above, indicates the direction in which the testicle and epididymis change place in their descent from the abdomen into the scrotum. rantia of Haller appear to be the remains also, in a more highly convoluted form, of one or more of the tubes of the Wolffian body still adhering to the excretory duct of the organ, and their communication with the main tube of the epidi- Fig. 615.