THE PENIS. 436 of the penis; the trabecules are finer and more equal in size; and the veins form a nearly uniform plexus between them ; in the glans, the meshes of this plexus are smallest and most uniform. Plain muscular fibres immediately surround the canal of the urethra, and also form part of the external coat of the spongy substance. The helicine arteries are found in the spongy body, especially towards the bulb, but not in the part which forms the glans penis. A considerable artery derived from the internal pudic enters the bulb on each side, and supplies the greater part of the spongy body, sending branches as far as the glans penis, but this part is chiefly supplied by branches from the arteria dorsalis. Besides these, Kobelt describes, as constantly present, another but much smaller branch of the pudic artery, entering the bulb on the upper surface, about an inch from its posterior extremity, and running forwards in the corpus spongiosum to the glans. It is only in the spongy body of the bulb that the arteries open directly into the veins: there in part, and elsewhere entirely, it is by the intervention of capillaries. Veins issue from the glans and adjoining part of the spongy body, to end in the vena dorsalis penis ; those of the rest of the spongy body for the most part pass backwards through the bulb, and end in the prostatic and pudic venous plexuses : some emerge from beneath the corpora cavernosa, anastomose with their veins, and end partly in the cutaneous veins of the penis and scrotum, and partly in the pudic and obturator veins. The lymphatics of the penis form a dense network on the skin of the glans and prepuce, and also underneath the mucous lining of the urethra. They pass chiefly into the inguinal glands. Deep-seated lymphatics are also described as issuing from the cavernous and spongy bodies, and passing under the pubic arch with the deep veins, to join the lymphatic plexuses in the pelvis. The nerves of the penis are derived from the dorsal and superficial perineal branches of the pudic nerve and from the hypogastric plexus of the sympathetic. The former are distributed to the skin and mu- cous membrane, the latter entirely to the cavernous and spongy bodies. Krause observed end-bulbs on the nerves of the penis, and Schweigger- Seidel found Pacinian bodies on the nerves of the glans. URETHRA OF THE MALE. The male urethra extends from the neck of the bladder to the extremity of the penis. Its total length is about eight inches and a half, but varies much according to the length of the penis, and the condition of that organ. Its diameter varies at different parts of its extent, as will be stated more particularly hereafter. The tube consists of a contin- uous mucous membrane, supported by an outer layer of submucous tissue connecting it with the several parts through which it passes. In the submucous tissue there are, throughout the whole extent of the urethra, two layers of plain muscular fibres, the inner fibres disposed longitudinally, and the outer in a circular direction. The urethra is described under the three divisions of the prostatic, membranous, and spongy portions. 1. The first, or prostatic portion, is the part which passes through the prostate gland. It is about 15 lines in length, is the widest part of the canal, and is wider in the middle than at either end : at the neck