THE SUBMAXILLARY GLAND. 333 z 2 on the styloid process and styloid muscles; and, in front, under cover of the ramus of the jaw, it advances a certain distance between the external and internal pterygoid muscles. The internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein are close to the deep surface of the gland. The external carotid artery, accompanied by the temporal and internal maxillary veins, passes through the parotid gland, and in that situation divides into the temporal and internal maxillary arteries, the former soon giving off the auricular and trans- verse facial branches of the temporal. The gland is also traversed by the facial nerve, which divides into branches within its substance, and it is pierced by branches of the great auricular nerve. The parotid duct, named also Stenson's duct (d. Stenonianus), appears at the anterior border of the gland, about one finger's breadth below the zygoma, and runs forwards over the masseter muscle, accom- panied by the socia parotidis, when that accessory portion of the gland exists, and receiving its ducts. At the anterior border of the masseter, the duct (d) turns inwards through the fat of the cheek and pierces the buccinator muscle; and then, after running for a short distance ob- liquely forwards beneath the mucous membrane, opens upon the inner surface of the cheek, by a small orifice opposite the crown of the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. Its direction across the face may be indicated by a line drawn from the lower margin of the concha of the ear to a point midway between the red margin of the lip and the ala of the nose. The length of the Stenonian duct is about two inches and a half, and its thickness about one line and a half. At the place where it perforates the buccinator, its canal is as large as a crow-quill, but at its orifice it is smaller than in any other part, and will only admit a fine probe. The vessels of the parotid gland enter and leave it at numerous points. The arteries are derived directly from the external carotid, and from those of its branches which pass through or near the gland. The veins correspond. The lymphatics join the deep and superficial set in the neck; and there are often one or more lymphatic glands embedded in the substance of the parotid. The nerves come from the sympathetic (carotid plexus), and also, it is said, from the facial and the superficial temporal and great auricular nerves. An instance is recorded by G-ruber of a remarkable displacement of the parotid on one side ; the whole gland being situated on the masseter muscle as if it were ■an enlarged socia parotidis. (Virchow's Archiv, xxxii., p. 328.) THE SUBMAXILLARY GLAND. The submaxillary gland (figs. 236, 237, sm), the next in size to the parotid, is of a spheroidal form, and weighs about 2 or 2i drachms. It is situated immediately below the base and the inner surface of the inferior maxilla, and above the digastric muscle. In this position it is covered by the skin, fascia and platysma myoides, and its inner surface rests on the mylo-hyoid, hyo-glossus, and stylo-glossus muscles ; above, it corresponds with a depression on the inner surface of the jaw-bone ; and it is separated behind from the parotid gland merely by the stylo- maxillary membrane. The facial artery, before it mounts over the jaw-bone, lies in a deep groove upon the back part and upper border of the gland. The duct of the submaxillary gland, named Wharton's duct (<T, fig. 237), which is about two inches in length, passes off, together with