533 BASE. descending cornea of the lateral ventricle, where it corresponds to the lower part of the eminentia collateralis. Base of the Cerebrum (fig. 375).—From the front of the pons Varolii, two white masses extend, marked on the surface with longi- tudinal stride, and having somewhat the appearance of large bundles of fibres. They pass forwards and outwards to enter the inner and under part of the right and left cerebral hemispheres, of which they are the peduncles or crura. Immediately before entering the corresponding hemisphere, each is crossed by a flattened white cord, named the optic tract (fig. 376), which, adhering by its upper border to the peduncle, is directed forwards and inwards, and meets in front with its fellow of Fig. 375. Big. 375.—Base op the Brain with the Origins op the Cerebral Nerves. (Allen Thomson.) ^ This figure is taken from an adult male brain which had been hardened in alcohol. 1, superior longitudinal fissure; 2, within it the straight olfactory tract and sulcus for the convolution; 2', orbital convolutions; 2", inferior frontal convolution; 3, 3, 3, fissure of Sylvius ; 4, 4, 4, temporo-sphenoidal lobe; 5, 5', occipital lobe ; 6, on the right anterior pyramid of the medulla oblongata above the decussation ; 7, amygdaloid lobe of the cerebellum ; 8, biventral lobe ; 9, lobulus gracilis ; 10, posterior inferior lobe ; +, the inferior vermiform process ; I, olfactory bulb ; F, the tract divided on the left side ; II, in the anterior perforated spot, marks the right optic nerve ; the left has been cut short; III, on the right crus cerebri, denotes the third pair ; IV, the fourth pair ; V, the trigeminus ; VI, on the pons Varolii, the sixth ; VII, also on the pons Varolii, the facial with the auditory nerve on its outer side ; VIII, on the right lobe of the cerebellum below the horizontal fissure and the flocculus, indicates the group of nerves below the auditory, i. e., the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and spinal accessory ; IX, on the upper part of the left amygdaloid lobe, denotes the hypo- glossal nerve ; X, on the same, the suboccipital nerve.