624 THE EYE. the other two downwards and to either side, whereas those on the anterior surface are directed one directly downwards and the other two upwards and to the sides (a). These lines are the edges of planes or septa within the lens diverging from the axis, and receiving the ends of the lens-fibres, which here abut against one another. As Tweedy has pointed out, they may be seen, by the aid of the ophthalmoscope, even during life. STRUCTURE OF THE LENS AND ITS CAPSULE. "When the lens has been hardened and the capsule removed, a succes- sion of concentric laminse may be detached from it like the coats from an onion. They are, however, not continuous all round as a rule, being apt to separate into parts opposite the radiating lines above described (fig. 435). The lamina? are composed of long, riband-shaped, microscopic fibres, -5-^0 o iQcn broad, which adhere together by their edges, the latter being often finely serrated (fig. 436, a), and pass in a curved direction (fig. 436, c), from the intersecting planes of the anterior half of the lens to those of the posterior half, or vice versa: in this course no fibre passes from one pole to the other, but those fibres which begin near the pole or centre of one surface, terminate near the mar- ginal part of a plane on the opposite surface, and conversely ; the inter- vening fibres passing to their corresponding places between. The arrangement will be better understood by a reference to fig. 433, c, where the course of the fibres is diagrammatically indicated. The lens fibres, as the history of their development shows, are to be looked upon as very much elongated cells. In the young state each has a clear oval nucleus, but in the fully-formed lens the nuclei have dis- appeared from the fibres which form the more internal parts of the lens, and only remain in the most superficial layers. Here they are found, not quite in the middle of each fibre, but slightly nearer the anterior end, their situation nearly corresponding in adjacent fibres, and they form by their juxtaposition the so-called " nuclear zone " around the lens. The superficial fibres further differ from the more deeply seated ones in being softer, and in possessing a plain, unserrated margin. The extremities of all the fibres are softer and more Fig. 437. readily acted on by reagents than the middle parts, and the axial or more internal part of a fibre more so than the external, but the transition is gradual from one to the other, and there is no definite membrane enclosing each fibre. The lens-fibres when cut across are seen to be six-sided prisms (fig. 436, b). By reason of this shape, and the serrations of their edges, they fit very exactly the one to the other with but little interfibrillar Pi^ 437 —cells ly- cementmg substance between. This is met with ing between the *n rather larger quantity in the intersecting planes Lens and its Cap- between the ends of the fibres. In fishes, and some sule (from Bow- other animals, the edges of the lens-fibres are man). 42 much more distinctly and regularly toothed than in man. At the back of the lens the fibres are directly in contact 'with the inner surface of the capsule, but in front they are separated from the latter by a single layer of flattened, polygonal, nucleated cells (fig. 437),