24 THE BLOOD. from the mass and move freely in the liquid (Osier).* Masses of pig- mentous matter are also occasionally found, especially in disease ; and in the blood of the splenic vein cells enclosing red blood-corpuscles have been noticed (Ecker, Kolliker). Fine interlacing filaments are commonly to be seen in a preparation of blood under the microscope. These consist of fibrin, and are formed, after the blood has been drawn, in the manner to be presently noticed. Liquor Sanguinis, or Plasma.—This is the pale clear fluid in which the corpuscles are naturally immersed. Its great character is its strong tendency to coagulate when the blood is withdrawn from the circulating current, and on this account it is difficult to procure it free from the corpuscles. Nevertheless, by filtering the slowly coagulable blood of the frog, as was first practised by J. Miiller, the large corpuscles are retained by the filter, while the liquor sanguinis comes through in perfectly clear and colourless drops, which, while yet clinging to the funnel, or after they have fallen into the recipient, separate into a pellucid glassy film of fibrin, and an equally transparent diffluent serum. When human blood is drawn in inflammatory diseases, as well as in some other conditions of the system, the red particles separate from the liquor sanguinis before coagulation, and leave the upper part of the liquid clear. In this case, however, the plasma is still mixed with the pale corpuscles, which, being light, accumulate at the top. On coagulation taking place in these circumstances, the upper part of the clot remains free from redness, and forms the well-known buffy coat so apt to appear in inflammatory blood. Horse's blood ordinarily presents this condition when drawn. The readiest way to obtain the liquor sanguinis in quantity free from red corpuscles is to allow the blood of the horse to flow from the vessels into a receiver, kept cool by means of ice : the blood corpuscles sink to the bottom, leaving' the upper part of the fluid clear and colourless. This may be drawn off into another vessel and is found readily to coagulate at a slight elevation of temperature. In the case of frog's blood this artificial cooling is not always necessary ; for, if it be collected with as little disturbance as possible, e.g., if the heart be allowed to pump blood directly into a clean glass tube, little or no coagulation may take place, so that the corpuscles rapidly subside and leave the plasma perfectly clear and colouiiess.f In post mortem examinations the cavities of the heart are often found occupied by an almost completely colourless, gela- tinous coagulum. This is due to the subsidence of the corpuscles after death. Coagulated plasma, whether obtained from buffy blood, or exuded on inflamed surfaces, presents, under the microscope, a multitude of fine filaments confusedly interwoven, as in a piece of felt ; but these are more or less obscured by the intermixture of corpuscles and fine granules, the former having all the characters of the pale corpuscles of the blood. The filaments are no doubt formed by the fibrin, as it solidifies in the coagulation of the liquor sanguinis. Sometimes, how- ever, fibrin presents w hen coagulated a gelatinous appearance under the microscope without any sign of filaments. Blood may be freed from fibrin by stirring it with a bundle of twigs, which entangle the fibrin as it concretes. * Centralblatt f. d. med. Wissensch. 1873. Proc. R. S., 1874. *T Schafer. British Association Reports, 1872.