THE EYE. 616 up into fine fibrils and thin transparent lamella?, and in this form they pass outwards through the layer, between the outer granules and the rod and cone-fibres, more or less enclosing these structures, and some- times forming almost complete, delicate sheaths for them. At the level of the bases or central ends of the cones and rods, the numerous offsets unite around those structures along a definite line which marks the boundary between the outer nuclear layer and the layer of rods and cones, and has been termed membrana limitans 'externa. This also, like the m. I. interna, is in no way a continuous membrane, nor is it isolable from the Mullerian fibres ; indeed, numerous fine fibrillar offsets of these pass a short distance beyond the so-called limiting membrane, and closely invest the bases of the inner segments of the rods and cones. The Mullerian fibres sometimes exhibit a fine striation. They swell up and become indistinct on treatment with acetic acid and dilute alkalies, but much more slowly than connective tissue fibrils ; more- over, they are not dissolved by boiling in water. They are much less developed in the central and posterior part of the retina than in the peripheral and anterior; towards the ora serrata they are very distinct and closely set. Structure of the Macula lutea and fovea centralis (fig. 426).— The peculiarities in structure which these present have been for the most part incidentally noticed in the preceding description of the retina layers. Thus in the first place no rods are met with, and the cones are Fig. 426. Fig. 426.—Vertical Section through the Macula Lutea and Fovea Centralis ; Diagrammatic (after Max Schultze). 1, nerve layer ; 2, ganglionic layer ; 3, inner molecular ; 4, inner nuclear ; and 5, outer molecular layers; 6, outer nuclear layer, the inner part with only cone-fibres form- ing the so-called external fibrous layer ; 7, cones and rods. much longer and narrower, especially opposite the fovea centralis, than elsewhere. All the other layers are very much thinned at the fovea, but towards its margin most of them are thicker than at any other