777 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. portion of the tube which forms the stomach turns over on its right side, so that the border, which is connected to the vertebral column by the membranous fold (or true mesogastrium) comes to be turned to the left,—the position of the tube being still vertical, like the stomach of some animals. By degrees it becomes more dilated, chiefly on what is now the left border but subsequently becomes the great curvature, and -assumes first an oblique and finally a transverse position, carrying with Fig. 573. A B C D Fig. 578.—Outline of the Form and Position of the Alimentary Canal in Successive Stages of its Development. A, alimentary canal, &c, in an embryo of five weeks ; B, at eight weeks ; C, at ten weeks ; D, at twelve weeks ; I, tlie primitive lungs connected with the pharynx ; s, the stomach ; d, duodenum ; i, the small intestine ; the large ; c, the csecum and vermi- form appendage ; r, the rectum ; c I, in A, the cloaca ; a, in B, the anus distinct from s i, the sinus uro-genitalis ; v, the yolk-sac ; v i, the vitello-intestinal duct ; u, the urinary bladder and urachus leading to the allantois ; g, the genital ducts. In B, and C, the thickness of the colon is erroneously represented as greater than that of the ileum. it the nlesogastrium, from which the great omentum is afterwards pro- duced. A slight indication of the pylorus is seen at the third month. Upon the surface of the part of the canal which immediately suc- ceeds the stomach, and which forms the duodenum, the rudiments of the liver, pancreas, and spleen are simultaneously deposited, in the manner to be stated in the description of the development of these organs. The place of transition from the small to the large intestine, which is soon indicated by the protrusion of the caecum, is at a point just below the apex or middle of the simple loop already mentioned, as accompanying the first elongation of the tubular gut. As the small intestine grows, the part below the duodenum forms a coil which at first lies in the commencing umbilical cord, but retires again into the abdomen about the twelfth week ; afterwards it continues to elongate, and its convolutions become more and more numerous.