402 THE URINARY ORGANS. THE URINARY ORGANS. The urinary organs consist of the kidneys, the glands by which the urine is secreted, and the ureters, Madder, and urethra, serving for its reception and evacuation. As being locally connected, the suprarenal capsules are usually described along with these organs, although they have no relation, so far as is known, to the secretion of urine. THE KIDNEYS. The kidneys, two in number, are deeply seated in the lumbar region, lying one on each side of the vertebral column, at the back part of the abdominal cavity, and behind the peritoneum. They are on a level with the last dorsal and the two or three upper lumbar vertebras, the right kidney being a little lower than the left, probably in consequence of the vicinity of the large right lobe of the liver. They are maintained in this position by their vessels, and by a quantity of surrounding loose areolar tissue, which usually contains much fat (tunica adiposa). The kidneys measure about 4 inches in length, 2J inches in breadth, and li inch or more in thickness. The left is usually longer and narrower than the right. The weight of the kidney is usually stated to be about 4A oz. in the male, and somewhat less in the female. According to Clendinning, the two kidneys of the male weigh on an average 9| oz., and those of the female 9 oz. The estimate of Rayer is 4^ oz. for each organ in the male, and 3f oz. in the other sex. Reid's observations (made on sixty-five males and twenty-eight females, between the ages of twenty-five and fifty-five) would indicate a higher average weight, viz., rather more than h\ oz. in the former, and not quite 5 oz. in the latter,—the difference between the two sexes being therefore upwards of half an ounce. The prevalent weights of the kidney, as deduced from the tables of Reid, are, in the adult-male (160 observa- tions) from 4^ oz. to 6 oz., and in the adult female (74 observations) from 4 oz. to h\ oz. The tables more recently published by Peacock give still higher average results as to the weight of these organs. The two kidneys are seldom of equal weight, the left being almost always heavier than the right. The difference, according to Rayer, is equal to about one-sixth of an ounce. The actual average- difference was found by Reid in ninety-three cases (male and female) to be rather more than one-fourth of an ounce. The proportionate weight of the two kidneys to the body is about 1 to 240. The specific gravity of the renal substance is about 1-052. The surface of the kidney is smooth, and of a deep red colour. Its form is peculiar : it is compressed from before backwards with a convex outer, and concave inner border, and somewhat enlarged extremities. Connections.—The anterior surface, more convex than the posterior, looks somewhat outwards, and is partially covered at its upper end by the peritoneum. The duodenum and ascending colon, both destitute of peritoneum behind, are in contact with the anterior surface of the right kidney, and the descending colon with that of the left. The front of the right kidney, moreover, touches the under surface of the liver, and that of the left the lower extremity of the spleen. The posterior surface, imbedded in areolar tissue, rests firstly upon the corresponding pillar of the diaphragm, in front of the eleventh and twelfth ribs : secondly, on the anterior layer of lumbar fascia, covering the quadratus lumborum