DIVISION OF THE AURICLES. 739 foramen ovale, and the inferior cava opens immediately behind this. Some time later in the human embryo, or in the course of the tenth or eleventh weeks, two new folds make their appearance in the auricles posteriorly. One of these constituting the Eustachian valve, of a Fig. 588. — Shows the position and form of the heart in the human Embryo from the Fourth to the Sixth WEEK. A, upper half of the body of a human embryo of nearly four weeks old (from Kolliker after Coste) ; B and C, anterior and posterior views of the heart of a human embryo of six weeks (from Kolliker after Ecker); a, frontal lappet; b, mouth ; c, below the lower jaw and in front of the second and third branchial arches ; d, upper limb ; e, liver ; /, intestine cut short ; 1, superior vena cava ; V, left superior cava or brachio-cephalic connected with the coronary vein ; 1", opening of the inferior vena cava; 2, 2', right and left auricles ; 3, 3', right and left ventricles ; 4, aortic bulb. Fig. 588. crescentic form, is placed to the right of the entrance of the inferior vena cava, and in the angle between it and the orifice of the left supe- rior cava (or great coronary sinus), and besides separating these two veins, and thus throwing the opening of the left superior cava into communication with the right auricle, this fold, as it runs forward into the annulus ovalis or border of the anterior auricular septum, has the effect of deepening the entrance of the inferior cava into a groove which lies close to the foramen ovale, and directs the blood entering by that vessel through the passage into the left auricle. The other fold referred to advances from the posterior wall of the common auricle to meet the anterior auricular septum, but yet to the left of the border of the foramen ovale. To this border, however, it adheres as it grows forwards, and thus gradually fills up the floor of the fossa ovalis. Up to the middle of foetal life, this posterior septum being incomplete, there is a direct passage from right to left through the foramen ; out, after that period, the fold in question, having advanced beyond the anterior border of the annulus ovalis and lying to the left, it does not adhere to this or the fore part of the annulus, but leaves a passage between, and appears as a crescentic fold in the left auricle, which, as it passes beyond the annulus, constitutes a very perfect valve against the return of blood from the left into the right auricle. Division of the Arterial Bulb.—The third important change occurring in the heart belongs to the arterial bulb, by which there are developed from this tube the first parts or main stems of the pulmonary artery and the aorta. Within the thick walls of this arterial tube there is at first only a single cylindrical cavity, continued from the originally single ventricle ; but, a'short time after the partition of the ventricular cavity has commenced, or in the seventh week of the human embryo, a division of the bulb by an independent process begins to