ELOOD-VESSELS. 174 The coats of the veins are supplied with nutrient vessels, vasa vasorwn, in the same manner as those of the arteries. Nerves are distributed to them in the same manner as to the arteries, but in far less abundance. Vital properties.—Veins, when in a healthy condition, appear, like arteries, to be almost devoid of sensibility. They possess vital contractility, which shows itself in the same manner as that of the arteries, but is greatly inferior in degree, and much less manifest. The muscular parts of the great veins, near the auricles of the heart, on being stimulated, in recently-killed quadrupeds, exhibit quick and decided contractions somewhat resemb- ling those of the auricles themselves. Wharton Jones discovered a rhythmic pulsation in the veins of the bat's wing, the pulsation occurring from ten to twelve times in a minute ; and it is worthy of note that the muscular tissue of these vessels is non-striated as in other veins. Valves.—Most of the veins are provided with valves, a mechanical contrivance beautifully adapted to prevent the reflux of the blood. The valves are formed of semi- lunar folds of the internal coat, strengthened by included connec- tive tissue, which project oblique- ly into the vein. Most commonly two such folds or flaps are placed opposite each other (fig. 114, a); the convex border of each (which, according to Haller, forms a para- bolic curve) is connected with the side of the vein; the other edge is free, and points towards the heart, or at least in the natural direction of the current of the blood along the vessel, and the two flaps obliquely incline towards each other in this direction. More- over the wall of the vein immediately above (or nearer the heart than) the curved line of attachment of the valves, is dilated into a pouch or sinus on each side (fig. 114, b), so that, when distended with blood or by artificial injection, the vessel bulges out on each side, and thus gives rise to the appearance of a knot or swelling wherever a valve is placed (as in fig. 114, c). From the above description, it is plain that the valves are so directed as to offer no obstacle to the blood in its onward flow, but that, when from pressure or any other cause it is driven backwards, the refluent blood, getting between the dilated wall of the vein, and the flaps of the valve, will press them inwards until their edges meet in the middle of the channel and close it up. The valvular folds are usually placed in pairs as above described ; in the veins of the horse and other large quadrupeds three are often found ranged round the inside of the vessel; but this rarely occurs in the human body. On the other hand, the valves are placed singly in some of the smaller veins, and in large veins single valves are not unfrequently placed over the openings of smaller entering branches ; also in the right auricular sinus of the heart there is a single Fig. 114. A Ji C Fig. 114.—Diagrams showing Valves of Veins. A. Part of a vein laid open and spread out, with two pairs of valves. B. Longitu- dinal section of a vein, showing the apposi- tion of the edges of the valves in their closed state. C. Portion of a distended vein, ex- hibiting a swelling in the situation of a pair of valves.