45G REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS IN THE FEMALE. ment. The slight intermediate enlargement, which some have called body, and which is most to be seen before the process of formation is complete, appears to be clue to the remains of the cell adhering to the head and tail, which have extended beyond its confines. The nucleolus may be seen for a time within the head. (Schweigger-Seidel, in Schultze's Archiv, vol. i., La Valette St. George, in Strieker's Handbuch, p. 539, Merkel, in Du Bois-Reymond's Archiv, 1871.) The vibratile or lashing motion of the filament belongs to the fully developed condition of the corpuscle, and causes the progressive eel-like advance when floating in fluid. It is closely allied to ciliary motion, and, indeed, the spermatic corpuscle may be regarded as in some measure analogous to a uniciliated cell. The filamentous form and ciliary vibratile movement belong to the fully developed spermatic corpuscles of by far the greater number of animals, extending to the lowest as well as the highest in the scale. Exceptional non-filamentous forms, with absence of vibratile motion occur in the Crustacea and nematoid worms, but the origin of the corpuscles from spermatic cells is nevertheless the same in these as in other animals. (Wagner and Leuckart, Article " Semen " in Cyclop, of Anat. and Phys. ; Kolliker in Handbuch.) REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS IN THE FEMALE. The reproductive organs in the female consist of the ovaries, uterus, and Fallopian tubes, which are named the internal, and the vagina, clitoris, nymphas, labia, and other parts included in the vulva, named the external organs of generation. THE VULVA. The vulva, or pudendum, is a general term, which includes all the parts perceptible externally, viz., the mons Veneris, the labia, the hymen or carunculte, the clitoris, and the nymphas. The urethra also may be described in connection with these parts. Integuments and Labia.—The integument on the fore part of the pubic symphysis, elevated by a quantity of areolar and adipose sub- stance deposited beneath it, and covered with hair, is termed the mons Veneris. The labia pudendi (labia externa v. majora) extend downwards and backwards from the mons, gradually becoming thinner as they descend. They form two rounded folds of integument so placed as to leave an elliptic interval (rima) between them, the outer surface of each being continuous with the skin, and covered with scattered hairs, whilst the inner is lined by the commencement of the genito-urinary mucous membrane. Between the skin and mucous membrane there is found, besides fat, vessels, nerves, and glands, some tissue resembling that of the dartos in the scrotum of the male, to which the labia in the main correspond. The labia majora unite beneath the mons and also in front of the perineum, the two points of union being called the anterior and posterior commissures. The posterior or inferior com- missure is about an inch distant from the margin of the anus, and this interval is named the perineum of the female. Immediately within the posterior commissure, the labia are connected by a slight transverse fold {ffamulum pudendi), which has also received the name offourcJietfr, and is frequently torn in the first parturition. The space between it and the commissure has been called fossa navicidaris. Clitoris.—Beneath the anterior commissure, and concealed between the labia, is the clitoris, a small elongated body corresponding in con- formation and structure to a diminutive penis, but differing in having