COURSE OF FIBRES. 507 white substance ; and then passing radiately through the grey capsule, turn backwards to the restiform body and lateral column, those of them which pierce the anterior wall of the capsule arching round it to reach their destination. Other fibres pass behind the olivary into the resti- form bodies, and seem to terminate in the grey substance of the floor of the fourth ventricle. Origin of Nerves.—From the surface of the medulla certain of the cranial nerves arise, namely, the sixth from the anterior pyramids close to the pons, the facial and auditory from the restiform body close to the pons, the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric, and spinal accessory from the lateral portion of the medulla, the hypoglossal from the groove between the anterior pyramid and olivary body. Their fibres may be traced to grey matter in or near the floor of the fourth ventricle (see p. 510 and 568). Fig. 356.—Diagrammatic Representa- tion op the Passage of the Columns op the Medulla Oblongata upwards and downwards. A, the specimen, which is seen from before, includes the medulla oblongata and the pons Varolii, with a small portion of the spinal marrow. The left lateral column (that to the reader's right) has been lifted out of its place to the side, and the ante- rior and posterior columns of that side remain undisturbed : the right anterior and posterior columns have been removed, and the lateral column remains in its place. The upper part of the right pyramid is removed. The transverse fibres of the pons Varolii have been divided in circumscribed portions to different depths corresponding with the several places of passage of the columns of the medulla. P, pons Varolii, part of the anterior sur- face, where it has been left entire ; p, the right and left pyramids, the upper part of the right has been cut away ; p', the fibres of the left pyramid, as they ascend through ^ JJC the pons, exposed by the removal of the superficial transverse fibres ; p", placed on the deeper transverse fibres of the pons on the right side, below the divided fibres of the- pyramid (these transverse fibres a little lower down constitute the part known as the "tra- pezium ") ; a, left anterior column of the cord, passing upwards into the undecussated part of the anterior pyramid, and into a', the olivary column ; o, olivary body ; o', the continua- tion of the olivary column ascending deeply through the pons and exposed by the removal of a small portion of the deeper transverse fibres ; o", the same fibres divided by a deeper incision on the right side ; I, the right lateral column, passing upwards into the following parts, viz., x , the deeper part passing by decussation into the left pyramid ; r, the part passing into the restiform body ; ft, the part ascending in the back of the fourth ventricle as the fasciculus teres ; to the outer side of this are seen the ascending fibres of the posterior pyramid ; V, the left lateral column drawn aside from its place in the spinal cord ; the fasciculus teres, ft, and the part to the restiform body, r, cut short ; x , the deeper part passing by decussation into the right pyramid ; r', the part of the restiform body derived from the anterior column of the spinal cord ; pc, the posterior column of the left side exposed by the removal of the lateral column, and shown ascending to the restiform bodj as the fasciculus cuneatus, fc : on the right side the posterior column being removed, fc, points to this fasciculus cuneatus cut short below. B, explanatory outline of the section of the spinal cord, a, anterior columns ; p, posterior ; l} lateral. Fig. 356.