390 THE LIVER. corresponding branches of the hepatic artery to be immediately described. The hepatic artery terminates in three sets of branches, termed vaginal, Fir. 278. I ft Fig. 278.—Cross Section op a Lobule of the Human Liver, in which the Capillary Network between the Portal and Hepatic Veins has been fully injected (from Sappey). 60 Diameters. 1, section of the intralobular or central vein ; 2, its smaller branches collecting blood from the capillary network ; 3, interlobular or peripheric branches of the vena portte with their smaller ramifications passing inwards towards the capillary network in the substance of the lobule. capsular, and interlobular. The vagmalbrancheB ramify within the portal canals, supplying the walls of the ducts and vessels, and Glisson's capsule. The capsular branches appear on the surface of the liver spread out on the fibrous coat, accompanied by their veins. The interlobular branches accompany the interlobular veins, but are much smaller : they transmit blood directly to a part of the capillary network of the lobules inter- mediate between the portal and hepatic veins. The capillary network of the lobules is very close, so that commonly the interval between two vessels is not greater than the diameter of one or two liver cells (fig. 279, 280). Moreover the vessels composing it are comparatively large (-^Vo-th °f an inen)> and in specimens in which it has been filled with transparent injection, can be seen, not only to pass in a radiating manner, as before described, between the intra- and interlobular veins, but also in the human subject to be continued from one lobule to another. The distribution of the portal and hepatic veins within the lobules, as just described, has suggested an explanation of the mottled aspect of the liver, an appearance which formerly led to the erroneous idea of there being two sub- stances in each lobule, one darker than the other. The colour of the hepatic substance itself is pale yellow, and would be uniform throughout, were it not varied according to the quantity of blood contained in its different vessels. Thus, if the system of hepatic veins be congested, the centre of each lobule is dark, and its margin pale; this is the common case after death, and was named by