THE OVUM AND BLASTODERM. ■€80 Fig. 495.—Cicatricula of the Fig. 495. the first division is effected by a groove or fissure which passes through the thickness of the germinal disc, having probably a direction at right angles to the long axis of the egg. This is crossed by a second fissure so as to divide the disc into four parts near the centre. A third cleavage or Assuring is still of the same radial character, dividing the disc into eight parts or sections ; but this is succeeded by another in a different direction, which may be named concentric, and which has the effect of separating from the rest those parts of the radial segments •of the disc which are next to the germinal centre : a subsequent alternating succession of radial and concentric fissures ends by dividing the whole disc into organised nucleated cells of a similar kind with those by which the whole of the mammiferous yolk becomes covered. A third set of fissures, which may be termed horizontal, must also occur to com- plete the separation of the segmented masses from the subjacent material. In this manner the germinal disc or cicatricula of the bird's ■egg has already, before the commencement of incubation, that is, during its descent through the oviduct and previous to being laid, been con- verted by the organising process of segmentation into the layer of cells which constitutes the blastoderm. The cicatricula of the iaid egg is therefore of quite a different structure from that of the ovarian ovum, though occupying the same place and presenting much the same ap- pearance to the unassisted eye. This layer appears to be double from the first in the bird's egg, or to consist of two strata of cells, differing somewhat in their character. Bird's Egg. A, diagrammatic section through the cicatricula of a newly laid egg ; a, vitelline membrane ; b, segmented germ disc ; c, below this the germ cavity ; d, the yolk cavity with- in the white yolk ; e, e, the yellow yolk substance. B, view from above of the cicatricular or germ disc of a newly laid impregnated egg in which segmentation has been complete. The opaque area is seen surrounding the central transparent area. C, cicatricula of an unim- pregnated hen's egg, showing the vacuolar structure produced by incomplete segmentation. In this process there is much which is obscure and still imperfectly known, and much to excite our curiosity. The source of the first segment nucleus has not been discovered, nor is it known whether or in what way it may be related to the dispersed contents of the germinal vesicle or to its macula, and we are equally in the dark as to what may be the influence of the spermatic element upon the germ, and what the forces by which the cleavage and the formation of the multiplying spheres are brought about. Contractile and other movements in the germ.—With respect to the last