229 SEBACEOUS GLANDS. Fig. 158. geneous limiting membrane, which is prolonged above between the corium and cuticle. The subsequent changes consist in the elongation of the rudimentary gland, the formation of a cavity along its axis—at first without an outlet—the prolonga- tion of its canal through the epidermis to open on the surface, and, in the meantime, the coil- ing up of the gradually lengthening gland-tube into a compact ball, and the twisting of the excretory duct as it proceeds to the orifice. The original homogeneous membrane of the duct becomes thickened and is continuous with the surface of the corium. whilst an epithelium appears within, consisting of several layers of polyhedral or rounded cells. The ceruminous glands in the auditory passage consist of a tube coiled into a ball, like the sweat-glands ; and Kollikers investigations show such a further corre- spondence between the two, in structure and mode of development as to lead him to regard the ceruminous glands as a mere local variety of the sudoriferous, which present specialities both of structm-e and secretion in particular regions of the body. The sebaceous glands (fig. 158) pour out their secretion at the roots of the hairs, for, with very few excep- tions, they open into the hair-follicles, and are found wherever there are hairs. Each has a small duct, which opens at & short distance within the mouth of the hair-follicle, and by its other end, leads to a cluster of small rounded secreting saccules, which as well as the duct are lined by epithelium, and usually charged with the fatty secretion, mixed with detached epithelium-par- ticles. The number of saccular recesses connected with the duct usually varies from four or five to twenty ; it may be reduced to two or three, in very small glands, or even to one, but this is rare. Fig. 158.—Sebaceous Gland prom the Face with branched duct, opening into a hair-follicle, MAGNIFIED 50 DIAMETERS (from Kolliker). a, epithelium continuous with b, the mucous layer of epidermis ; c, contents of gland; d, d, the groups of saccules on the branches of the duct ; e, hair-follicle; /, hair. These glands are lodged in the substance of the corium. Several may open into the same hair-follicle, surrounding it on all sides, and their size is not regulated by the magnitude of the hair. Thus, some of the largest are connected with the fine downy hairs on the alas of the nose and other parts of the face, and there they often become unduly charged with pent-up secretion. Development of the sebaceous g-lands.—The rudiments of the sebaceous glands sprout like little buds from the sides of the hair-follicles ; they are at first, in fact, excrescences of the external or mucous layer of the root-sheath (fig. 159), and are composed entirely of nucleated cells. Each little process soon assumes a flask shape and is at first solid; but in due time a group of cells containing fat particles appears in its centre, and gradually extends itself along the