VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE TESTIS. 453 of the vas deferens. It is traversed by very many fine ruga?, which form an alveolar structure resembling that seen in the gall-bladder, but deeper and enclosing much finer meshes. The epithelium of the vesiculse is of the short prismatic kind ; its particles have a granular character. The seminal vesicles serve as receptacles or reservoirs for the semen, as is proved by a microscopic examination of their contents ; but, besides this, it is probable that they secrete a peculiar fluid which is incorporated with the semen. The common seminal or ejaculatory ducts;, two in number, are formed on each side by the junction of the narrowed extremities of the corresponding vas deferens and vesicula seminalis, close to the base of the prostate gland. From this point they run forwards and upwards, at the same time approaching each other, and then pass side by side through the prostate between its middle and two lateral lobes. After a course of nearly an inch, during which they become gradually narrower, they end in the floor of the prostatic portion of the urethra by two small slit-like orifices placed on the verumontanum, one on each prominent margin of the opening of the prostatic sinus. For a short distance the ejaculatory ducts run in the substance of the walls of the vesicle. The coats of the common seminal duct, as compared with those of the vas deferens and vesicula, are very thin. The strong outer tunic almost entirely disappears after the entrance of the ducts between the lobes of the prostate, but muscular fibres may be traced into the prostatic por- tion ; and the mucous membrane becomes gradually smoother as it passes into that of the urethra. According to Henle, the muscular fibres of the duct are separated by blood-vessels as it passes through the prostate and form the trabecular of a layer of cavernous tissue. These ejaculatory ducts convey the fluid contained in the seminal vesicles and vasa deferentia into the urethra. Their canal gradually narrows as they approach their termination, where its diameter is reduced to the fiftieth of an inch. VESSELS AND NERVES OP THE TESTIS. The testicle and its excretory apparatus receive blood-vessels and nerves from sources which are different from those giving the vascular and nervous supply of the coverings of those parts. The spermatic artery, or proper artery of the testicle, is a slender and remarkably long branch, which arises from the abdominal aorta, and passing down the posterior abdominal wall reaches the spermatic cord, and descends along it to the gland. In early foetal life its course is much shorter, as the testis is then situated near the part of the aorta from which the artery arises. As the vessel approaches the testicle, it gives off small branches to the epididymis, and then divides into others which perforate the tunica albuginea at the back of the gland, and pass through the corpus Highmorianum ; some spread out on the internal surface of the tunica albuginea, whilst others run between the lobes of the testis, supported by the fibrous processes of the mediastinum. The smallest branches ramify on the delicate membranous septa between the lobes, before supplying the seminiferous tubes. The vas deferens receives from the superior vesical artery a long slender branch which accompanies the duct, and hence is named the