THE BLADDEB. 422 base of the bladder is destitute of peritoneum, and adherent to the rectum by dense fibro-areolar tissue over the extent of a triangular area bounded at the sides by the vasa deferentia and vesiculse seminales (fig. 305, s, s), whilst its apex in front reaches the prostate gland (p). It is in this space, which in the natural state of the parts is by no means so large as it appears after they are disturbed in dissection, that the bladder may be punctured from the rectum without injury to the peritoneum. In the female, the base of the bladder is of less extent, and does not reach so far back in the pelvis as in the male : for it rests against the front of the neck of the uterus and the anterior wall of the vagina, both of which organs intervene between it and the rectum. This part of the bladder adheres to the vagina, and above that adhesion the peritoneum forms a pouch between it and the uterus, much shallower than the recto- vesical pouch of the male. The cervix or neck of the bladder is a term commonly applied to the part of the bladder at which the cavity terminates in the urethra, and is often indefinitely used, so as to include a considerable portion either of the bladder or urethra. It may be conveniently retained to denote the region of the immediate neighbourhood of the urethral orifice. It is the most strongly muscular part of the bladder, and in the male it is closely connected with the base of the prostate gland, by which it is supported. It was formerly described as an infundibular projection, but, as pointed out by Kohlrausch, no such arrangement exists. The urethral orifice is in both sexes the part of the bladder which in the erect posture is lowest; it lies at the angle of meeting of the base and the anterior surface. It was formerly believed that the base was the lowest part of the bladder in the adult male, and hence the origin of the term. The inferior position of the urethral orifice was supposed to be peculiar to women and children. The more correct views, however, now entertained with respect to the inclination of the pelvis have led to altered notions of the relative elevation of the pelvic viscera. A consideration of the following- circumstances will contribute to an accurate conception of the position of the vesical outlet. The symphysis pubis is placed very obliquely ; the ischial tuberosities are little lower than the inferior margin of the symphysis pubis, and the triangular ligament is therefore almost horizontal ; the lower part of the sacrum and the coccyx are nearly vertical, being only slightly curved forwards, and the tip of the coccyx is on a somewhat higher level than the inferior margin of the symphysis pubis ; the curve and position of the rectum are determined by those of the sacrum and coccyx until it passes in front of the coccyx, when it turns vertically downwards ; the prostate gland, situated entirely on the upper or interior side of the triangular ligament, rests on the last turn of the rectum, and the base of the bladder is in contact with the rectum above that place. Ligaments of the "bladder.—The true ligaments of the bladder, four in number, two anterior and two lateral, all derived from the vesical portion of the recto-vesical fascia, have been already noticed. The false ligaments or peritoneal folds are described as five in number. Two of them, named posterior false ligaments or recto-vesical folds, run forwards in the male along the sides of the rectum to the posterior and lateral aspect of the bladder, and bound the sides of the recto-vesical cul-de-sac. In the female these posterior folds pass forwards from the sides of the uterus, and are comparatively small. The two lateral false ligaments extend from the iliac fossa? to the sides of the bladder, each separated from the corresponding posterior ligament by a prominent