824 DEVELOPMENT OF THE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS. already alluded to, which, is filled with soft tissue, and is termed plica gubematrix. There is likewise a fibrous structure attached inferiorly to the lower part of the scrotum, and surrounding the peritoneal pouch above, which may be distin- guished as the gxibernacular cord, both this and the plica gubematrix being included in the general term gubemacvlum testis (J. Hunter). The gubernacular cord consists of fibres which pass downwards from the sub-peritoneal fascia, others which pass upwards from the superficial fascia and integument, and others again which pass both upwards and downwards from the internal oblique muscle and the aponeurosis of the external oblique ; it exhibits, therefore, a fusion of the layers of the abdominal wall. Superiorly, it surrounds the processus vagi- nalis, without penetrating the plica gubematrix; and the processus vaginalis, as it grows, pushes its way down through the gubernacular cord and disperses its fibres. By the time that the testis enters the internal abdominal ring, the pro- cessus vaginalis has reached a considerable way into the scrotum ; and, as the testis follows, the plica gubematrix becomes shorter, till it at last disappears ; but it cannot be said that the shortening of the plica is the cause of the descent of the testicle, and much less that (as has been held by some) the mus- cular fibres of the gubernacular cord are the agents which effect this change of position. The arched fibres of the cremaster muscle make their appearance on the surface of the processus vaginalis as it descends, while its other fibres are those which descend in the gubernacular cord. (See, for a further account of this process, and the various views which have been held with regard to the descent of the testicles, CI eland, " Mechanism of the Gubernaculum Testis." Edinburgh, 1856.) The External Organs.—In the human embryo, as in that of animals, the external organs are up to a certain time entirely of the same form in both sexes ; and the several organs which afterwards distinguish the male and female exter- nally take their origin respectively from common masses of blastema of precisely similar structure and connections. The common cloaca exists till after the fifth week, and the genital eminence from which the clitoris or penis is formed makes its appearance in the course of the fifth and sixth weeks in front of and within the common orifice. In the course of the seventh and eighth weeks the com- mon orifice is seen to become divided into two parts, viz., the longer slit of the genito-urinary aperture anteriorly, and the narrower and more rounded anal aperture posteriorly : but the exact manner in which the separation of these two apertures takes place has not yet been accurately traced. It is intimately connected with the formation of the urogenital cord as an independent struc- ture, and is probably mainly effected by the advance from the sides and poste- riorly of septal bands which separate the lower part of the intestine. Somewhat later, or in the ninth and tenth weeks, a transverse integumental band completes the division between the anal and the urogenital orifices, which band forms the whole of the so-called perineum of the female, and the part of the perineal integument in the male which is situated behind the scrotum ; the raphe being most obvious in the male sex. The cutaneous folds, or circular genital ridge, which are afterwards converted into mons Veneris, labia majora, and scrotum, as well as the lips of the urogenital furrow, which are converted into the nymphas of the female and unite as integu- ment below the penis in the male, are both of early formation and at first pre- cisely the same in all embryoes. In this condition, which continues until the eleventh or twelfth week, the parts appear alike in both sexes, and resemble very much the more advanced female organs. The rudiments of Bartlwliiis or Comber's glands are, it is said, seen at an early period, near the root of the rudimentary clitoris or penis, on each side of the genito-urinary passage. In the female, the two lateral cutaneous folds enlarge, so as to cover the clitoris and form the labia majora. The clitoris itself remains relatively smaller, and the groove on its under surface less and less marked, owing to the opening out, and subsequent extension backwards, of its margins to form the nymphce. The vas- cular bulbs remain distinct and separate, except at one point where they run together in the glans clitoridis. The hymen begins to appear about the fifth month as a fold of the lining membrane at the opening of the genital passage