266 THE TRACHEA. over the front of the gullet and descending aorta : the arch of the aorta turns backwards and to the left over it, and the left pulmonary artery lies first above it and then on its anterior surface. The remaining connections of each bronchus, as it lies within the root of the corre- sponding lung, and the mode in which it there subdivides will be afterwards described. In form the bronchi exactly resemble the trachea on a smaller scale ; they are rounded and firm in front and at the sides, where they are provided with imperfect cartilaginous rings, and flattened and mem- branous behind. STRUCTURE OP THE TRACHEA AND BRONCHI. The trachea consists of the elastic framework of incomplete carti- laginous rings or hoops, layers of fibrous, muscular, and elastic tissue, and the lining mucous membrane, with glands. The cartilages are from sixteen to twenty in number. Each pre- sents a curve of rather more than two-thirds of a circle, resembling the letter C. The depth from above downwards is from 1J to 2 lines, and the thickness half a line. The outer surface of each is flat, but the inner is convex from above downwards, so as to give greater thickness in the middle than at the upper and lower edge. The cartilages are held together by a strong fibrous membrane, which is elastic and extensible up to a certain point, and not only occupies the intervals between them, but is prolonged over their outer and inner surfaces, so that they are, as it were, imbedded in the membrane. The layer cover- ing the outer side of the rings is stronger than that within them ; and from this circumstance, together with the roundness of their inner surfaces, they may be felt more readily on the interior than on the exterior of the tube. The cartilages terminate abruptly behind by rounded ends, but the fibrous membrane is continued across between them, and completes the tube behind ; it is here looser in its texture. The first or highest cartilage, which is connected by the fibrous membrane with the cricoid, is broader than the rest, and often divided at one end. Sometimes it coalesces to a greater or less extent with the cricoid or with the one below. The lowest carti- lage, placed at the bifurcation of the trachea, is peculiar in shape ; its lower border being prolonged downwards, and at the same time bent backwards so as to form a curved projection between the two bronchi. The cartilage next above this is slightly widened in the middle line. Sometimes the extremities of two adjacent cartilages are united, and not unfrequently a cartilage is divided at one end into two short branches, the opposite end of that next it being likewise bifurcated so as to maintain the parallelism of the entire series. The use of these cartilaginous hoops is to keep the windpipe open, a con- dition essential for the free passage of air into the lungs. Within the fibrous membrane at the posterior flattened part of the trachea, is a continuous pale reddish layer of unstriped mus- cular fibres, which pass across, not only between the ends of the cartilages, but also opposite the intervals ; they doubtless serve to diminish the area of the tube by approximating the ends of the cartilages. Those opposite the hoops are attached to the ends