519 Fig. 364.—View of a Dissection INTERNAL STRUCTURE. Fig. 364. ance, named ardor vitm {a v, fig. 363, 384). This appearance is seen in any vertical section, but it is most perfect in that which passes through the median plane, where the relative quantity of the central white matter is small. The foliations are arranged somewhat pinnatcly, the section of each primary lamina having those of secondary laminae clustered round it like leaflets on a stalk. In the lateral hemispheres, where the peduncles enter, the white matter is more abundant ; and, if a section be made through either hemisphere half way between its centre and the middle of the vermi- form process, it will display a nucleus of grey matter, which is named the corpus dentatum of the cerebellum (c d). This structure, very similar to that already described in the olivary body of the medulla oblongata, presents the appearance of a waved line of compact yellowish brown matter, surrounded by white substance and containing whitish matter within. This line is interrupted at its upper and inner part. In whatever direction the section is carried through the corpus den- tatum, this waved line is seen, so that the dentate body may be described as consisting of a plicated pouch or capsule of grey sub- stance open at one part and inclosing white matter in its interior, like the corpus dentatum of the olivary body. White fibres may be traced from it to the superior peduncles of the cerebellum and to the valve of Vieussens. of the Fibres of the Medulla Oblongata and Pons Varolii (from Arnold). § b, the anterior pyramid ; V, its fibres traced upwards through the pons Varolii ;, c, olivary column ; d, olivary body; m, superficial trans- verse fibres of the pons on its left side ; m', the deeper transverse fibres of the right side ; m", the prolongation of these fibres as middle peduncle of the cerebellum ; p, q, their continuation into the laminae and folia of the cerebellum ; n, in- ferior peduncle ; x, the decussating part of the left lateral column cross- ing to the right anterior pyramid. The fibres in the primary lamellse can be traced continuously from the peduncles of the cerebellum. Upon these central plates are laid other collateral lamella?, which are not connected with the fibres proceeding- from the middle of the cerebellum, but merely pass from one folium to another. The grey matter is not uniform throughout its whole thickness, but is com- posed of two or more layers differing in colour and other characters ;—resem- bling, in this respect, the cortical substance of the posterior convolutions of the cerebrum. The fibres composing the peduncles of the cerebellum are arranged in its interior in the following manner. The middle peduncles, which are the most superficial, enter the lateral parts of the cerebellum; they may be traced into the folia of these parts, and form a large part of each hemisphere (fig. 304, in"). The inferior peduncles (fig. 305, n q) pass upwards into the middle part of the cere- bellum, in the folia of which they are distributed, especially in those of the upper surface. The superior peduncles (r; see also fig. 358), which are placed nearest to the middle line, are principally connected with the folia of the inferior vermi-