521 MIXUTE STRUCTURE. tiguous with the corpuscles of Purkinje, contains some nerve fibres parallel to the surface. Fig. 366.—Structure op Cortex Fi<; of Cerebellum (from a drawing by Mr. H. R. 0. Sankej). «, pia mater ; 1), external layer ; c, layer of corpuscles of Purkinje; d, inner or granule layer; e, me- dullary centre. The inner layer, " granule layer," (fig. 366 d), next the medullary centre, consists of granule-like corpuscles which lie in dense groups, in a gela- tinous matrix, containing a plexus of fine nerve fibres. The corpuscles vary in size from oth to the aio^th of an inch, the larger being less densely scattered around the corpuscles of Purkinje. Some are round, others angular, and possess a protoplasmic envelope with processes, sup- posed to be connected with the plexus of fine nerve fibres, among which they lie. The cells of Purkinje (c) lie in a single layer, between the outer and inner layers of the cortex. Their distance apart is greater on the sides than at the apex of the convolu- tion. Some are irregular in shape, but many are flask- shaped, their long axis being at right angles to the sur- face ; the diameter of the larger cells is the -gfath. to ToVoth of an inch ; each contains a spherical nucleolated nucleus. Pro- cesses extend from them into both the outer and inner layers : the outer process is much the larger, and is granular or finely striated in texture. It divides usually near the cell, and its branches, either at once or after a short horizontal course, pass towards the surface, dividing repeatedly. Some are apparently connected with the angular corpuscles of this layer, but most can be traced almost to the outer surface, and are there lost. They have been said to turn back and end in the granule layer. The inner process is fine, undivided, and passes into the granule layer. It is supposed to be continuous with the axis cylinder of a nerve fibre. The medullary centre, consists of nerve fibres arranged in parallel or interlacing bundles, which pass off on each side and form the central a, .. S> „ S8ff. <S «> <£• ®