098 GENERAL PHENOMENA OF EMBRYONIC DEVELOPMENT. surrounding' the vascular area and receiving the blood from the capillary or subdivided vessels of the area within. Alimentary Canal.—The formation of the rudiment of the ali- mentary canal or primitive intestine takes place below or within the boat-shaped part of the embryo previously described by the folding in, soonest at the cephalic and later at the caudal extremities, and subse- quently along the sides, first of the hypoblast, from which the epithelial lining only of the intestine is formed, and afterwards of certain parts of the splanchnopleure section of the mesoblast which give rise by their meeting in the middle to the mesentery, and furnish in their extension over the intestinal tube the muscular and peritoneal coats and the connective-tissue and vascular elements of the gut. The primitive alimentary canal is thus constituted in its early form by an anterior and posterior csecal tube, of which the anterior is the first produced,—both of them closed at the extremity by the reflected layers of the blastoderm,—and by a wide'middle part between the tubular portions, which at first has the form of a groove or gutter running under the vertebral axis of the embryo, and completely open below into the cavity of the yolk-sac. As development proceeds, the intestinal folds involve more and more of this central open part and convert it into the tubular form; and the opening into the yolk is thus gradually narrowed, while the reflected part of the blastodermic layers which pass between the yolk-sac and the intestine becomes lengthened out so Fig. 510. Pig. 510.—Diagrammatic Section through the Ovum of a Mammal in the long axis op the Embryo. e, the cranio-vertebral axis ; i, i, the cephalic and caudal portions of the primitive alimentary canal; a, the amnion ; a', the point of reflection into the false amnion ; v, yolk sac, communicating with the middle part of the intestine by v i, the vitello-intestinal duct; u, the allantois. The ovum is surrounded externally by the villous chorion.