435 CORPUS SPONGIOSUM. more than arterial loops or convolutions thrown into peculiar forms by the manner in which they are bound down by the trabecular in which they run. They are most distinct in man, but are not con- stant in animals, so that, whatever may be their use, they do not appear to be essential to the process of erection. According to Langer the deep arteries of the corpora cavernosa, pene- trating by the side of the septum, and dividing within the trabecular, terminate in the following several ways : 1st, over the whole surface of the corpora cavernosa and close to the fibrous sheath and septum, they form by their division true capillaries which communicate with the deeper cortical venous network ; 2nd, into this network there also open directly arterial twigs of about tlth of an inch in diameter, without any intermediate capillary division ; and 3rd, arterial vessels of from -^th to .-^th of an inch in diameter open, without the intervention of capil- laries, into the larger venous spaces of the interior. Capillary networks also surround the arterial branches and the trabecular of the deeper parts of the corpora cavernosa. (C. Langer, in Sitzungsbericht der Wien. Acad., vol. xlvi. p. 120.) CORPUS SPONGIOSUM. The corpus spongiosum urethral commences in front of the triangular ligament of the perineum, where it is placed between the diverging crura of the corpora cavernosa, and somewhat behind their point of junction. The enlarged and rounded posterior extremity is named the bulb, and is situated below the urethra. It extends forwards as a cylindrical, or slightly tapering body, lodged in the groove on the under side of the united cavernous bodies, as far as their blunt conical anterior extremity, over which it expands so as to form the glans penis already described. In the whole of this extent it encloses the urethra. The posterior bulbous part, or bulb of the urethra, varies in size in different subjects. It receives an investment from the triangular liga- ment on which it rests, and is embraced by the accelerator urinae, or bulbo-cavernosus muscle. The posterior extremity of the bulb exhibits, more or less distinctly, a subdivision into two lateral portions or lobes, separated by a slight furrow on the lower surface, and by a slender fibrous partition within, which extends for a short distance forwards ; in early infancy this is more marked. It is above this part that the urethra, having pierced the triangular ligament, enters the bulb, surrounded obliquely by a portion of the spongy tissue, named by Kobelt the colli- cuius bulbi, from which a layer of venous erectile tissue passes back upon the membranous and prostatic portions of the urethra to the neck of the bladder, lying closely beneath the mucous membrane. At first the urethra is nearer the upper than the lower part of the corpus spongiosum, but it soon gains and continues to occupy the middle of that body. Structure.—This is essentially the same as regards the vascular part with that of the corpora cavernosa, but with a much less quantity of the external fibrous and deeper trabecular structure. Like the corpora cavernosa, it is distended with blood during erection, but never acquires the same rigidity. The outer fibrous tunic is much thinner, is less white in colour, and contains more elastic tissue ; the areolae are smaller, and directed for the most part with their long diameter in the line of that