ORIGIN OF THE URO-GENITAL SYSTEM. 805 Wolffian duct, which terminates on each side in the cloaca. The Malpighian glomeruli were first discovered by Rathke, who pointed out Fig. 599.—Human Embryo of from 25 to 28 days, viewed Fig. 599. FROM BEFORE, THE THORAX AND ABDOMEN OPENED (from Kolliker after Coste). o, the eye; on, the maxillary plate; mn, the inferior maxillary plate ; b, the second postoral plate ; h, the heart; ■w, Wolffian bodies and ducts on their outer borders ; I, the liver ; e\ the upper and e2, the lower limbs ; a, the allantoid pedicle, and on each side of it the umbilical arteries ; i, i, the upper and lower parts of the intestine of which the middle parts Avith the vitello-intestinal duct have been removed, leaving the mesentery stretched between. their vascular structure, and their vessels derived from neighbouring branches of the aorta. The ducts of the Wolffian bodies are found to contain a whitish fluid, and the bodies are believed to perform the glandular office of kidneys during a part of foetal life in the higher vertebrata, and they have accordingly received the name of primordial hidneys, a designation which is quite appropriate, as it appears that in fishes and am- phibia, they remain as the whole in some, and a part in others, of the permanent kidneys. In the human foetus they begin to be formed along with the allantois, at a very early period, probably before the third week, as they are already very apparent in the fourth. They have attained their full size by the sixth week, and in the seventh and eighth are rapidly diminishing in size, in connection with the changes which accompany the develop- ment of the genital organs and the permanent kidneys. Fig. 600. Fig. 600.—Transverse Section through the Embryo of the Chick and Blasto- derm on the Second Day (from Kolliker). d d, hypoblast ; ch, chorda dorsalis ; u ic, primordial vertebra? ; m r, medullary plates ; h, corneous layer or epiblast ; u w h, cavity of the primordial vertebral mass ; m p, mesoblast dividing at s p into h p I, somatopleure, and d f, splanchnopleure ; ■ii n a, Wolffian duct, beginning in the intermediate cell-mass. As development advances the Wolffian bodies rapidly become pro- portionally shorter and thicker : they shrink towards the lower part of the abdominal cavity, and soon become almost entirely wasted. By