67 ELASTIC TISSUE. property in a very high degree, and is employed wherever an extensible and highly elastic material is required in the animal structure. Examples of this texture on a large scale are seen in the horse, ox, elephant, and other large quadrupeds, in which it forms the great elastic ligament, called ligamentum nuclm, that extends from the spines of the vertebras to the occiput, and aids in sustaining the head; in the same animals it also forms an elastic subcutaneous fascia, which is spread over the muscles of the abdomen and assists in supporting the contents of that cavity. In the human body it is met with chiefly in the following situations, viz. :— 1, Forming- the ligamienta subflam, which extend between the arches of adjacent vertebras ; these ligaments, while they permit the bones to be drawn apart in flexion of the body, aid in restoring and maintaining their habitual ap- proximation in the erect posture—so far, therefore, relieving the constant effort •of the erector muscles. There is, moreover, an obvious advantage in having an elastic band in this situation, instead of an ordinary ligament, which would be thrown into folds when the bones are approximated. 2. Constituting the chief part of the stylohyoid, thyrohyoid, and cricothyroid ligaments, and those named the vocal cords. Also extending, in form of longitudinal bands, underneath the mucous membrane of the windpipe and its ramifications. 3. Entering, along* with other textures, into the formation of the coats of the blood-vessels, espe- cially the arteries, and conferring elasticity on these tubes. 4. Beneath the- mucous membrane of the gullet and lower part of the rectum, also in the tissue which surrounds the muscular coat of the gnllet externally. 5. In the tissue which lies under the serous membranes in certain parts. 6. In many of the fascias, where it is mixed with much areolar tissue. 7. Largely in the suspensory ligament and subcutaneous tissue of the penis. 8. In considerable quantity in the tissue of the skin. 9. In the enclosing capsule and trabecular tissue of the ■spleen. The elastic tissue in its purest and most typical condition, such as is seen in the ligamentum nuchas of quadrupeds and the ligamenta sub- flava of the human spine, has a yellow colour more or less decided ; it is extensible and elastic in the highest degree, but is not so strong as ordinary fibrous ligament, and it breaks across the direction of its fibres when forcibly stretched. Its fibres may be easily torn separate in a longitudinal direction ; they are often gathered into irregular fasciculi which run side by side, but join at short distances by slips with one another, and are further connected by areolar tissue, which is always intermixed with them in greater or less quantity. Elastic liga- ments are also covered outwardly with a sheath of areolar tissue. "When the elastic fibres are mixed up with a large proportion of some other kind of tissue, their yellow colour may not appear, but they can always be recognised by their microscopic characters. When viewed under a tolerably high magnifying power, they appear quite trans- parent, with a remarkably well-defined dark outline (fig. 40). They run side by side, following a somewhat bending course, but with bold and wide curves, unlike the undulations of the white connective fila- ments. As they proceed they divide into branches, and join or anastomose together in a reticular manner. Elastic networks may be composed of fine fibres with wide meshes ; in other parts the elastic fibres are larger and broader and the intervening spaces narrower, so that the tissue may even acquire a lamellar character and present the appearance of a homogeneous membrane, which may be either entire, or with gaps or perforations at short intervals, in which case f 2