10S BONE. describes them as springing originally from the cells which compose the walls of the blood-vessels. Ostoclasts are found in connection with the roots of the milk teeth where these are undergoing absorption to make way for the permanent set: and cells precisely similar occur in various situations quite apart from any hard tissue, and in such situations have long been known as " giant-cells " (Eiesen- zellen, Virchow). Whether in these cases also they are con- cerned in any way with absorp- tion is unknown. The changes of shape which the bones undergo in the pro- cess of growth, as well as any changes which may occur in them in adult life, are all pro- duced in the same manner as the increase of size—that is to say, not by interstitial growth and expansion of the sub- stance of the bone in one direction more than in another, but by a deposition of new bone by osteoblasts at some parts and a simultaneous absorption by ostoclasts at/others ; whilst in other places again neither absorption nor deposi- tion is occurring—just as a modeller corrects his work by plastering the clay on at one part whilst scraping it away at another part.* From the foregoing account of the development of bone, it is evident that a great portion of a long bone is formed independently of cartilage. It appears there- fore reasonable to consider the pre-existence of that tissue as not being a necessary condition of the ossific process, and to regard the precursory cartilage of the foetal skeleton in the light of a temporary substitute for bone, and also as afford- ing, as it were, a mould of definite figure and of soft but yet sufficiently consistent material in which the osseous tissue may be at first deposited and assume a suit- able form. In fact the cartilage-cells are not ossified, and, as to the slender walls of the primary areola? formed by calcification of the intercellular cartilaginous matrix, most of them are, in a long bone, swept away by absorption, in the excavation of the medullary canal; so that they can only remain—coated, how- ever, and obscured by secondary laminated deposit—in the cancellar structure of bones which begin to ossify in cartilage.! The time of commencement of ossification in the different bones, as well as the number and mode of conjunction of their centres of ossification, are subjects that belong to special anatomy. It may, however, be here remarked in general, that the commencement of ossification does not in all cases follow the order in which the bones appear in their soft or cartilaginous state. The vertebrae, for instance, appear as cartilages before there is any trace of the clavicle, yet ossification begins in the latter sooner than in any other bone of the skeleton. The time when it commences in the clavicle, and consequently the date of the first ossification in the skeleton, is referred by some to the seventh week of * For special details of this modelling process as it is met with in the different bones of the skeleton, the reader is referred to Kolliker's memoir : Die normale Resorption des Knockengewebes. Leipzig, 1873. f Nesbitt, in 1736, maintained that the cartilage is "entirely destroyed ; " he there- fore considered it to be a mere temporary substitute ; but the steps of the process of intracartilaginous ossification as now traced with the aid of the microscope were unknown to him. The view stated in the text, together with most of the facts adduced in support of it, was announced by Sharpey in the fifth edition of this work in 1846, but notwith- standing the comprehensive researches of Bruch, by which he was led to the same opinion (Denks. d. Schweitz. naturf. Gesells. 1852), it met with little notice, and probably less assent, until the subject was treated of in a special memoir by the late H. Miiller (Zeits. fur wissensch. Zool. vol. ix., 1858), to whom the doctrine in its modern shape is now commonly ascribed. Fig. 63. Fig. 63.—Three Ostoclasts prom Absorption- Surfaces op (trowing Bone. 400 Diameters (KSlliker). a, with thickened striated border.