THE NASAL CARTILAGES. 6G5 wards ; and, secondly, of the two nasal fossse, in which the olfactory nerves are expanded. The nasal fossa3 are separated from each other by a partition, septum nasi, formed of bone and cartilage: they communicate with hollows in the neighbouring bones (ethmoid, sphe- noid, frontal, and superior maxillary); and they open backwards into the pharynx through the 'posterior nares. The skin of the nose is studded, particularly in the grooves of the alae or outer walls of the nostrils, with numerous small openings, which lead to sebaceous follicles. Within the margin of the nostrils there is a number of short, stiff, and slightly curved hairs—vibrissa,—which grow from the inner surface of the alaa and septum nasi. CARTILAGES OF THE NOSE. These are the chief support of the outer part of the organ. They occupy the triangular opening seen in front of the nasal cavity in the dried skull, and assist in forming the septum between the nasal fossae. There are usually reckoned two large and three small cartilages on each side, and one central piece or cartilage of the septum. Fig. 479. Fig. 480. Fig. 478—Lateral View of the Cartilages op the Nose (Ar- nold), f a, right nasal bone ; b, nasal process of the superior maxillary hone ; 1, upper lateral cartilage or wing-like expansion of the septal cartilage ; 2, lower lateral cartilage (outer part) ; 2*, inner part of the same ; 3, sesamoid cartilages. Fig. 479.—Front View of the Cartilages of the Nose (Arnold). | a, a', nasal bones ; 1, 1', upper lateral cartilages or wing-like expansions of the septal cartilage ; 2, 2', lower lateral car- tilages. Fig. 480.—View of the Cartilages of the Nose from below (Arnold), f 2, 2', outer part of the lower lateral car- tilages ; 2*, 2*, inner part of the same ; 4, lower edge of the cartilage of the septum. The iqijjer lateral cartilages (cartilagines laterales nasi) (figs. 478 and 479, 1) are situated in the upper part of the projecting portion of the nose, immediately below the free margin of the nasal bones. Each is flattened and triangular in shape, and presents one surface out- wards, and the other inwards towards the nasal cavity. The anterior