405 URINIFEROUS TUBULES. "between these two, a double layer of muscular fibres, longitudinal and circular. The longitudinal fibres are lost near the extremity of the calix, but the circular fibres, according to Henle, form a continuous circular muscle round the papilla where the wall of the calix is attached to it. The pyramidal masses found in the adult kidney indicate the original sepa- ration of this gland into lobules in the earlier stages of its growth (fig. 299). Each of these primitive lobules is in fact a pyramid surrounded by a proper in- vestment of cortical substance, and is analagous to one of the lobules of the divided kidneys, seen in many of the lower animals. As the human kidney continues to be developed, the adjacent surfaces of the lobules coalesce and the gland becomes a single mass; the contiguous parts of the originally separate cortical investments, being blended together, form the partitions between the pyramids already described. More- over, upon the surface of the kidney even in the adult, after the removal of the fibrous capsule, faintly marked furrows may be traced on the corti- cal substance, opposite the intervals in the interior between the several Malpighian pyramids ; and not un- frequently instances occur in which a deeper separation of the original lobules by grooves remains apparent in the adult kidney. Tubuli uriniferi.—On ex- amining the summit of one of the papillse carefully, especially with the aid of a lens, a num- ber of small orifices may be seen varying in diameter from ^-^th to 2-£otn of an inch. They are frequently collected in large numbers at the bottom of a slight depression or foveola found near the summit of the papilla, but most commonly the surface is pitted over with about a score of small depressions of this sort. On tracing these minute openings into the sub- stance of the pyramids, they are discovered to be the mouths of small tubes or ducts, the urini- ferons tubes before mentioned, which thus open upon the sur- face of the several papillas into the interior of the calices. As these tubuli pass up into Pis. 237. RANGEMENT OF (from Ludwig). the course and ar- Uriniferous Tubes p, corresponds to the apical part, and g, to the base of a pyramid of Malpighi ; r, cortical part ; ix, excretory tube ; vni, vn, vi, straight or collecting tube with its branches ; v, junc- tional tube ; iv, ascending limb of Henle's loop (h) ; in, descending limb ; n, commencing convoluted tube ; i, Malpighian capsule with glomerulus. the pyramidal substance, they bifurcate again and again at very acute angles, their successive branches running close together in straight and