G3S THE EAR. wards to near its point, where it is flattened laterally : it descends, with a slight inclination forwards and inwards, between the middle and inner layers of the membrana tympani, to the former of which it is closely attached both by means of its periosteal covering and also by a dense fibro-cartilaginous tissue extending its whole length, except near the root of the process, where it is less firmly united to the membrane. The long process (processus gracilis) (fig. 448, A, 3)is a very slender spiculum of bone, which in the adult is usually converted, except a small stump, into ligamentous tissue. Even where it still exists it is commonly broken off in its removal from the tympanum, in consequence of its union with the temporal bone ; it projects at nearly a right angle from the front of the neck of the malleus, and extends thence obliquely downwards and forwards to the Glaserian fissure. Its end is flattened and expanded, and is connected by ligamentous fibres and by bone to the sides of the fissure. The short process (processus brevis vel obtusus) (fig. 448, A, 4) is a low conical eminence situate at the root of the manubrium, beneath the cervix, and projecting outwards towards the upper part of the membrana tympani. The incus (fig. 448, b), has been compared to an anvil in form ; but it resembles perhaps more nearly a tooth with two fangs widely sepa- rated. It consists of a body and two processes. The body presents in front a concavo-convex articular surface (4), which is directed upwards and forwards, and receives the head of the malleus. The surfaces of the joint thus formed are covered with articular cartilage and enclosed by a synovial membrane. The shorter of the two processes (crus breve) (3), of the incus projects nearly horizontally backwards from the upper part of the body of the bone, and is connected by ligamentous fibres with the posterior wall of the tympanum near the entrance of the mastoid cells. The long process (crus longum) (2) tapers rather more gradually, and descends nearly vertically behind the handle of the malleus : at its extremity it is bent inwards, and is suddenly narrowed into a short neck ; and upon this is set a flattened rounded tubercle (processus lenticularis), tipped with cartilage. This tubercle, which articulates with the head of the stapes, was formerly, under the name of os orMculare seu lenticidare, described as a separate bone, which indeed it originally is in childhood. The stapes (fig. 448, c), the third and innermost bone of the ear, is in shape remarkably like a stirrup, and is composed of a head, a base, and two crura. The head is directed outwards, and has on its end a slight depression, covered with cartilage, which articulates with the len- ticular process of the incus. The hase is a plate of bone placed in the fenestra ovalis. Its form is irregularly oval, the upper margin being curved, while the lower is nearly straight (fig. 448, c*). Its border is encircled by hyaline cartilage, which also covers its vesti- bular surface. The margin of the fenestra ovalis has also a cover- ing of the same tissue, and the opposed cartilaginous surfaces are closely connected, and their movement of the stapes is limited by a network of elastic fibres passing between, and, near the tympanic and vestibular cavities, forming especially a dense ligamentous band (Riidinger). The crura of the stapes diverge from a constricted part (neck) of the bone, situated close to the head, and are attached to the outer surface of the base near its extremities. The anterior crus is the shorter and straighter of the two. The crura, with the base of the