DEVELOPMENT OF THE ORGANS OF SENSE. 763 to the deepest part of the intruded mesoblast. The vessels of this membrane are supplied by a branch of the central artery of the retina, which passes forwards in the axis of the globe, and breaks up at the back of the lens into a brush of rapidly subdividing twigs. The forepart of this tunic, adherent to the pupillary margin of the iris, forms the yu/pilla/ry membrane by which the aperture of the pupil is closed in the middle periods of foetal life. In the human subject, the whole tunic, together with the artery which supplies it, becomes atrophied, and is lost sight of before birth, but in some animals it remains apparent for a few days after birth. According to Kolliker, the anterior chamber expands only a short time before birth by the intervention of the aqueous humour between the iris and cornea. The eyelids make their appearance as folds of integument, subsequently to the formation of the globe. When they have met together in front of the eye, their edges become closely glued together ; and they again open before birth. The lachrymal canal may be regarded as a persistently open part of the fissure between the lateral frontal process and maxillary lobe of the embryo. The first discovery of the mode of development of the eye as it is now generally understood was made by Huschke in 1832, and was published in Meckel's Archiv for that year. In addition to the various systematic works on Development previously quoted, the reader is referred to the following, viz., Lieberkuhn, Uber das Auge des Wirbelthier-embryo, 1872 ; and Julius Arnold, Beitrage zur Entwick.. des Auges, Heidelberg, 1874. The first origin of the organ of hearing as an involuted follicle from the superficial epiblast of the head, constituting the primary auditory- Fig. 569.—Outlines showing the Formation of the External Ear in the Foetus. A, head and upper part of the body of a human foetus of about four weeks (from nature). \° Four branchial plates (the first, forming the lower jaw, is marked 1), and four clefts are shown ; the auditory vesicle (a), though closed, is visible from the tran- sparency of the parts, and is placed behind the second branchial plate. B, the same parts in a human foetus of about six weeks (from Ecker). f The third and fourth plates have nearly disappeared, and the third and fourth clefts are closed ; the second is nearly closed ; but the first (I') is somewhat widened posteriorly in con- nection with the formation of the meatus externus. C, human foetus of about nine weeks (from nature). 3 The first branchial cleft is more dilated, and has altered its form along with the integument behind it in connection with the formation of the meatus externus and the auricle. DEVELOPMENT OF THE BAB. Fig. 569. or otic vesicles, has already been shortly described. From numerous observations there is now no doubt that both in birds and mammals