POSITION WITH EEGAED TO NEIGHBOURING PAETS. 3S3 Two shallow impressions are seen on the under surface of the right lobe ; one in front (impressio colica), corresponding with the hepatic flexure of the colon ; and one behind {impressio renalis), corresponding with the right kidney. Borders.—The anterior border of the liver, a thin, free, and sharp margin, is the most movable part. Opposite the longitudinal fissure it presents a notch, and, to the right of this, there is often another slight notch opposite the fundus of the gall-bladder. The posterior border, which is directed backwards and upwards, is thick and rounded on the right side, but becomes gradually thinner towards the left. It is the most fixed part of the organ, and is firmly attached by areolar tissue to the diaphragm. This border of the liver is curved opposite to the projection of the vertebral column, and has a deep groove for the reception of the ascending vena cava. Of the two lateral borders of the liver, the right is placed lower down, and is thick and obtuse ; whilst the left is the thinnest part of the gland, is raised to a higher level, and reaches the cardiac part of the stomach. Ligaments.—-The five ligaments of the liver are, with one exception, only folds of serous membrane. One of these, the coronary ligament, is a reflection of peritoneum around the somewhat triangular portion of the posterior border of the liver, which is immediately adherent to the diaphragm and at either end is continued into two short folds—the right and left lateral or triangular ligaments, of which the left is the longer and more distinct. Another of these so-called ligaments is the broad, falciform, or suspensory ligament, a wide thin membrane, formed of two cohering layers of peritoneum. By one of its margins it is connected with the under surface of the diaphragm, and with the sheath of the right rectus muscle of the abdomen as low as the um- bilicus ; by another it is attached along the convex surface of the liver, from the posterior border to the notch in the anterior border: the re- maining margin is free, and contains between its layers the round ligament, a dense fibrous cord, the remnant of the umbilical vein of the foetus, which ascends from the umbilicus, within the lower edge of the broad ligament, and enters the longitudinal fissure on the under surface. Position with regard to neighbouring parts.—Occupying the right hypochondriac region, and extending across the epigastric region into a part of the left hypochondrium, the liver is accurately adapted to the vault of the diaphragm above, and is covered, to a small extent in front, by the abdominal parietes. The right portion reaches higher beneath the ribs than the left, corresponding thus with the elevated position of the diaphragm on the right side. The liver is separated by the diaphragm from the concave base of the right lung, the thin margin of which descends so as to intervene between the surface of the body and the solid mass of the liver. The convex surface is protected, on the right, by the six or seven lower ribs, and in front by the cartilages of the same and by the ensi- form cartilage—the diaphragm, of course, being interposed. The situation of the liver is modified by the position of the body, and also by the movements of respiration; thus, in the upright or sitting- posture, it reaches below the margin of the thorax; but in the recumbent position ascends an inch or an inch and a half higher up, VOL. II. c c