14 INTERCELLULAR SUBSTANCE. again. This is repeated two or three times, but finally the furrow becomes permanent, and, deepening into a groove, gradually constricts the mass into two. In some cases, before Fi?- 8. this process is complete, a second furrow appears at right angles to the first, and sometimes even a third, the division being thus into four or eight segments instead of into two only, as previously described in the case of the mammalian ovum. In the same manner the division of Fig. 8.—Diagram of the Divi- other cells may take place, the nucleus sion of a Cell. first becoming divided, and a portion of the protoplasm collecting around each half. The two cells thus produced may each undergo a similar change, and in this way cell-multiplication may be exceedingly rapid. The cells commonly become separated ; in some tissues, however, cartilage, for instance, they may remain in proximity, producing thus groups of two or four newly-formed cells, which, in the case of that tissue, are at first enclosed in a common cavity of the matrix: hence the process of multiplication has here been styied " endogenous." It is, however, in all probability, essentially the same as in the less solid tissues. The division of cells is usually into two, as above described, but, as observed by Remak in the frog larva, it may occur into as many as five or six. Instances of the jv 9_ same kind are also observed in the development of pus f ' . ^ corpuscles from connective tissue corpuscles, the cells becoming enlarged, and their nuclei multiplied previously to breaking up into pus cor- puscles. Sometimes, however, a multiplication of nuclei within a cell would seem to occur without immediate Fig. 9.—Multinucleated Cells. 400 Diameters separation into new cells, as, (Kolliker). for jnstancej jn fae cage 0f ^}ie large flattened multinucleated cells (fig. 9), which are found in the medullary cavities of bone, and in other situations, and which would seem, at least in bone, to fulfil a special function. Of cells in their relation to each other.—The cells which com- pose the early embryo have but little connection one with another, the intercellular substance being small in amount, or altogether absent. As growth proceeds, however, they come to present differences in their relations to each other. a. They may remain isolated, as in the instance of the pale corpus- cles of blood, chyle, and lymph. 1). They may be united into a continuous tissue by means of a cementing substance : the epithelium and cuticle, the nails and hairs afford instances of this. c. Processes from neighbouring cells meet and become united, as is