765 FORMATION OF THE LENS. observations of Lieberkiihn that in mammals the fold which produces the ocular cup or secondary vesicle runs back into the stalk so as to fold in the optic nerve for a considerable space, and by the simul- taneous intrusion of mesoblastic tissue, thus to lead to the introduction of the central blood-vessels of the retina within the nerve. But in birds, according to the same observer, no such infolding of the stalk occurs, so that in them the vessels are excluded from the nerve. The malformation termed coloboma iridis is to be attributed to a persistence of the choroidal cleft or fold, and the pecten of birds, close to the optic nerve, with the vascular fold farther forwards, and the falciform fold of the eyes of fishes are to be regarded as fibro-vascular structures formed by original projection through the same fold., * The" further development of the parts of the eye may be briefly stated as follows :— The expansion of the ocular cup continuing to proceed, the chamber for the vitreous humour enlarges, and that structure gradually comes to occupy its space between the retina and the lens. The marked distinction between the nervous and the pigmental portions of the primitive ocular vesicle goes on increasing by the con- tinued deposit of pigment in the latter, and its proportional thinning, and by the great addition to the thickness and the textural differentia- tion of the substance of the former. Thus the cells in the retinal or nervous portion, by their rapid multiplication, soon become several layers thick ; certain parts of these cells assume the spindle shape, and exhibit elongation into fibres, while others retain the nuclear form, and thus there is foreshadowed the division into the fibrous, ganglionic, and nuclear layers of the retina. On the exterior a limiting membrane Fig. 566.—Section of the Eye op an Embryo-Calf of 30 mm. long, magnified (from Julius Arnold). The cavity of the lens is niucli reduced in size from the increased development of fibres from behind. The intersection space begins to be formed posteriorly, and the zone of nuclei is thrown forward. The cornea is now formed, covered externally by the cuticular epithelium, and with the separation of the aqueous chamber in- ternally. Close to the lens is the capsulo-pupillary membrane, which is continuous with the vascular structure occupying the secondary ocular capsule or cavity for the vitreous humour, and with the choroid membrane round the margin of the ocular capsule, where iris and ciliary processes will afterwards be formed. The layer of pigment is now more developed, and the tissue of the sclerotic is begun to be formed. The eyelids are beginning to project as folds of the skin. Fig. 566. makes its appearance, and in connexion with it the rudiments of the cells composing the layer of rods and cones. The space between the