368 THE SMALL INTESTINE. of the arteries, the branches of the nerves, retaining still a wide plexiform. arrangement, pass onwards to the different parts of the intestine between the two folds of the mesentery, and finally, separating somewhat from the blood- vessels, reach the intestine in very numerous branches to be distributed in its coats. Passing first between the longitudinal and circular layer of the muscular coat, they here form a close gangliated plexus throughout the whole extent of the intestine (shown in fig. 265, A, as exhibited under a low power). This, which is known as " Auerbach's plexus," or the " plexus myentericus," and which is principally composed of non-medullated fibres, gives off fine branches to the muscular substance, these first forming a smaller plexus amongst the muscular fibres. Other larger branches pass between the circular bundles of fibres to reach the submucous layer, where they form a second richly gangliated plexus (Meissner's, fig. 265, b, under a high power), the threads of which are much finer than those of the intermuscular network. From Meissner's plexus nervous fibres pass to be distributed to the muscular layer of the mucous membrane, breaking up into fine fibrils which take the direction of the fibre-cells of this layer, whilst other excessively fine fibrils form a comparatively open plexus in the proper tissue of the mucous coat near the basement membrane, and appear to send branches towards the epithelium, but the further course of these has not been traced. Fig. 265. A. B. Pig. 265 (from Kolliker); A.—Nervous Plexus op Auerbach, from the Muscular Coat of a Child's Intestine. 20 Diameters. Three perforated ganglionic masses are seen united by several nervous cords. B.—Small Portion of Meissner's Submucous Nervous Plexus from the Intestine of a Child. 350 Diameters. Two ganglia are represented, of -which the cells are seen spreading into the nerve-twigs connected with the ganglia: the fusiform particles on the nerve-twigs are nuclei of connec- tive tissue corpuscles.