STRUCTURE OF THE DENTIXE. 30!) ing together in loops, or in the interglobular cavities shortly to be described. The tubules are described as having each a proper wall, independent of the intertubular matrix, but intimately adhering to, and under ordi- nary circumstances indistinguishable from it. This wall, named the dental or dentinal sheath, is formed of a calcified membranous tube.* Bjr steeping sections of decalcified dentine in strong hydrochloric acid, the matrix is destroyed, and the membranous tubes, which consist of a more resisting material (probably elastic substance), remain behind. In sections of hard dentine made across the tubules (fig. 209), the walls of these often appear as a distinct thin border : this may, however, be due to an optical effect. In properly prepared sections of softened teeth fine processes may be seen passing into the tubules from the surface-cells of the pulp before- mentioned ; and it is suggested by Tomes that these are not only subservient to the nutrition of the dentine, but probably also confer on it a certain degree of sensibility. It has been noticed, indeed, that the dentine is more sensitive near the surface than deeper in its substance,—a fact not easily intelligible on the supposition that the sentient tissue is confined to the pulp-cavity. But the sensibility of the teeth may not improbably be in part dependent on the nerves in the dental periosteum (Salter). In the temporary, and sometimes even in the per- manent teeth, the tubules are constricted at short intervals, so as to present a moniliform character. The terminal branches of tubules are occasionally seen to pass on into the cement which covers the fang, and to communicate with canaliculi proceeding- from the characteristic lacunce found in that osseous layer. Tu- bules have likewise been observed by Tomes passing into the enamel in the teeth of marsupial animals, and in a less marked degree in human teeth. The interiubular substance is translucent. The animal matter which remains in it, after the earth has been removed by an acid, exhibits a tendency to tear in the direction of the tubules, but is in reality a homogeneous substance, deposited in a laminated manner. This was shown by Sharpey, who observed that in the softened teeth of the cachalot or sperm-whale the animal substance was readily torn into fine lamella?, parallel with the internal surface of the pulp-cavity, and there- fore across the direction of the tubules. In these lamella? the sections of the tubules appear as round or oval apertures, the lamella? having the same relation to the tubules as those of true bone to the canaliculi. The same tendency to lamination is exhibited by boiling a longi- tudinal section of tooth with caustic potash, after which it presents closely set, short, and regular fissures, lying at right angles to the tubules, throughout the extent of the dentine (Clelancl) ; moreover, a thin cross-section of a tooth may be broken up, after decalcification, into concentric rings like the year-rings of wood (Salter). Fig. 209. Fig. 209.—Sections of Den- tinal Tubules (after Fraenkel). a, cut across; b, cut ob- liquely. (About 300 dia- meters). * Some authorities maintain that the sheaths are not calcified.