Section of half the Fig. 350.—Transverse Fig. 350. THE SPINAL CORD. 498 taining nuclei and pigment ; secondly, there are smaller cells, ranging from to of an inch, the majority being from tJqo to -gfa of an inch in size. The smaller cells occur scattered throughout the whole of the grey matter, and are aggregated also in the substantia gelatinosa at the ex- tremity of the caput cornn posterioris, where they are scattered in a finely granular basis, and among them pass many fine nerve-fibres derived from, the posterior roots. The larger cells are collected into groups. In the anterior horn they are placed chiefly in its anterior and in its outer portions, although scattered cells occur throughout the cornu. The two groups (with Spinal Marrow in the Lumbar En- largement. (Allen Thomson.) f This is a seinidia- grammatic representa- tion taken from a pre- pared specimen, and founded in part on the statements of Lockhart Clarke and of Kolliker. 1, anterior median fissure ; 2, posterior median fissure ; 3, cen- tral canal lined with epithelium ; 4, posterior commissure ; 5, anterior commissure ; 6, posterior column; 7, lateral co- lumn : 8, anterior co- lumn ; (at each of these places and throughout the white substance the trabecular prolongations of the pia mater are- shown ;) 9, fasciculus of posterior nerve root en- tering in one bundle ; 10, fasciculi of anterior roots entering in four spreading bundles of fibres ; a, a, caput cornu posterioris with large and small cells, and above them the gelatinous substance ; b, in the cervix cornn, decussating fibres from the nerve roots and posterior commissure ; c, posterior vesicular columns (of Clarke); d, fibres running transversely from the posterior commissure into the lateral columns ; near d, the lateral group of cells, intermedio-lateral tract ; c, e, fibres of the anterior roots, entering the anterior cornu, and passing through among the radiating cells, but not joining their processes ; e', fibres from the anterior roots which decussate in the anterior commissure ; e", external fibres from the roots running round the outside of the anterior grey cornu towards the lateral columns ; /, fibres from the posterior commissure and from the posterior cornu running towards the anterior. Three groups of cells are seen in the anterior cornu ; of these the anterior are external and internal, the posterior are chiefly external or lateral. which the anterior nerve-roots are connected) are well defined, espe- cially in the cervical and lumbar enlargements. The outer group is usually cylindrical, the anterior prismatic in form, and the latter is often broken up into two or three smaller groups.