DEVELOPMENT OF THE LIMBS. 743 The whole thickness of the somatopleure division of the mesoblast is involved in this primary limb-hud, and it is of course also covered with the epiblast or cuticular layer, in the substance of which there is considerable increase of thickness at the most prominent part of the margin. As the limb-buds increase in size, the lateral limb-plate, or Wolffian ridge, which is at first very prominent in its whole length, becomes less, and gradually flattens down into the more even surface of the wall of the trunk. The part of the limb which appears first, corresponds more imme- diately with the hand or foot than with the other divisions of the limb. Along with this, however, at a very early period there is an indication of the formation of the limb-girdles as folds passing off from the side Fig. 542. — Diagrammatic Fig. 542. Outline of the Profile view of the Human Em- bryo OF ABOUT SEVEN weeks, to show the primi- tive relations of the Limbs to the Trunk. (Allen Thomson.) { r, the radial (preaxial), and u, the ulnar (postaxial) border of the hand and fore- arm ; t, the tibial (preaxial), and /, the fibular (postaxial) border of the foot and lower leg. (The foot is represented at a somewhat more advanced stage than, the rest of the embryo). of the trunk. As the projection of the limb increases from the side of the body, the distal or terminal segment becomes slightly notched off from the part next the trunk. This terminal part, forming nearly three-fourths of a somewhat circular flattened plate, contains the rudi- ments of the hand or foot. The next change which takes place is in the division of the proximal part, or rather the preaxial border and ventral surface, by a notch which separates the fore-arm and lower leg from the upper arm and thigh at the elbow and knee joint respectively. In the third stage the notched division of the free lateral curved margin, with intermediate slightly tubercular projections of the substance, shows the commencement of digital development, in which it soon becomes apparent that the pollex and hallux occupy the preaxial position in their respective limbs, and are followed by the series of other fingers to the fifth, which is placed on the postaxial border. From these it is easy to trace, by reference to the simple original posi- tion of the limbs, the preaxial position afterwards held by the radius in the one and the tibia in the other, and the postaxial position of the ulna or fibula. In the meantime the internal differentiation of texture takes place, by which is brought out the more complete distinction of the segments of the limbs, and the various component parts of each, which gradually appear in the cartilages for the bones, muscular plates extended from the general muscular sheath of the trunk, prolongation of the cutaneous layer of the integument, the formation of nerves, blood-vessels, &c, the consideration of all which belongs to the history of more advanced development.