MUCOUS MEMBRANES. 204 Lymphatic vessels have not hitherto been demonstrated in the synovial membranes. Herves.—W. Krause describes the nerves of the synovial membranes (at least those of the joints) as terminating in peculiar corpuscles allied to end bulbs. Another observer (Nicoladoni) has traced the nerves into a plexus of pale fibrils lying close under the surface of the membrane. Development.—Reyher describes the development of the synovial mem- branes as follows :—At the time of the formation of a joint the surrounding tissue becomes changed, so that while its outer part developes into the fibrous capsule of the joint, its inner part forms the commencement of the synovial membrane. The cartilage cells on the surfaces of the newly formed joint are at first placed closely together without matrix or intercellular substance ; after a time this appears in fine lines between the cells, so that these, in silvered preparations, now present an epithelioid appearance. By a further development of intercellu- lar substance the superficial cells become more separated from one another, and now possess an irregularly branched shape with communicating processes. Near the edge of the cartilage this condition is permanent, so that the marginal zone of the synovial membrane is formed here in situ from what was originally carti- lage. More towards the centre of the articular surface, however, a further change takes place in the progress of development, for in these parts the cells lose their processes and acquire the characters of ordinary cartilage cells, whilst at the same time the matrix becomes much increased between them, and forms also a thin layer covering their surface. Synovia.—As already stated, this is a viscid transparent fluid ; it has a yellowish or faintly reddish tint, and a slightly saline taste. According to Frerichs, the synovia of the ox consists of (Ji-85 water, 0"oG mucus and cells, 0"07 fat, 3'51 albumin and extractive matter, and 0-99 salts. If a drop of synovial fluid be examined microscopically, it is found to contain (in addition to fat-molecules) a few amoeboid corpuscles, as well as cells similar to those which occur on the surface of the membrane. MUCOUS MEMBRANES. These membranes, unlike the serous, line internal passages, and other cavities which open on the surface of the body, as well as various re- cesses, sinuses, gland-ducts and receptacles of secretion, which open into such passages. They are habitually subject to the contact of foreign substances introduced into the body, such as air and aliment, or of various secreted or excreted matters, and hence their surface is coated over and protected by mucus, a fluid of a more consistent and tenacious character than that which moistens the serous membranes. Distribution.—The mucous membranes of several different or even distant parts are continuous, and they may all, or nearly all, be reduced to two great divisions, namely the f/astro-jjneumonw and (jenito-urinary. The former covers the inside of the alimentary and air-passages as well as the less considerable cavities com- municating with them. It may be described as commencing at the edges of the lips and nostrils, where it is continuous with the skin, and proceeding through the nose and mouth to the throat, whence it is continued throughout the whole length of the ali- mentary canal to the termination of the intestine, there again meeting the skin, and also along the windpipe and its numerous divisions as far as the air-cells of the lungs, to which it affords a lining. From the nose the membrane may be said to be prolonged into the lachrymal passages, extending up the nasal duct into the lachrymal sac and along