THE STOMACH. 3o2 the pylorus, becomes continuous with the longitudinal fibres of the duodenum. The second set consists of the circular fibres (fig. 245, m% fig. 246, b), which form a complete layer over the whole extent of the stomach. They commence by small and thinly scattered rings at the left extremity of the great cul-de-sac, describe larger and larger circles as they sur- round the body of the stomach concentric to its curved axis, and towards the pyloric end again form smaller rings, and at the same time become much thicker and stronger than at any other point. At the pylorus itself, they are gathered into an annular bundle (fig. 245 in section), which projects inwards into the cavity, and forms, within the annular fold of mucous membrane, the pyloric sphincter. Some of the circular fibres appear to be continued from those of the oesophagus, spreading from its right side. The innermost muscular layer is incomplete, and consists of the oblique fibres (fig. 246, o). These are continuous with the circular fibres of the gullet; they embrace the cardiac orifice on the left, where they form a considerable stratum and from that point descend obliquely upon the anterior and posterior surfaces of the stomach, where they spread out from one another, and taking the direction of the circular fibres, gradually disappear. A similar set of fibres are noticed by Henle, and more fully described by Pettigrew as proceeding from the right side of the cardia and spreading over the front and back of the great cul-de- sac : these are in part continuous with the circular layer. The oblique fibres are best seen from the inside of the stomach, after removing the mucous membrane. The areolar or submucous coat of the stomach is a distinct layer placed between the muscular and mucous coats, and connected with both: it consists essentially of areolar tissue, in which occasional fat-cells may be found; and it is the seat of division and passage of the blood-vessels. The internal or mucous coat is a smooth, soft, rather thick and pulpy membrane, which has generally a somewhat pink hue owing to the blood in its capillary vessels, but after it has been well washed, is of a greyish white or pale straw colour. In some cases, however, it presents this pale aspect without any previous washing. In infancy the vascular redness is more marked, the surface having then a rosy hue, but it becomes paler in childhood, and in aged persons is often of an ash-grey colour. During digestion its vessels become congested, and when examined in that condition it is always of a much brighter pink than at other times. After death a few hours often suffice to change its colour to a dirty brown tint, mottled and streaked in some cases with dull red lines, corresponding with the course of the veins. This alteration is owing to the exudation of the colouring matter of the blood, and is especially met with in old subjects, in whom the mucous membrane is always thin. In acute inflammation, or after the intro- duction of ii'ritating substances or of strong acrid poisons, it becomes of a bright red, either all over or in spots, patches or streaks of variable sizes. Corrosive poisons, the gastric juice, and sometimes regurgitating bile, may stain it variously, black, brown, yellow, or green. As was pointed out by Yelloly, in cases of obstructed venous circulation, as when death occurs from hanging or from drowning, and from certain diseases of the heart, the surface of the stomach is reddened; but the amount of vascularity may vary also from circumstances which are not well understood.