THE FEMALE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS. THE UTERUS. 462 Vessels and Nerves.—The vagina is largely supplied with vessels and nerves. The arteries are derived from branches of the internal iliac, viz., the vaginal, internal pudic, vesical, and uterine. The veins correspond; but they first surround the vagina with numerous branches, and form at each side a plexus named the vaginal plexus. The nerves are derived from the hypogastric plexus of the sympathetic, and from the fourth sacral and pudic nerves of the spinal system ; the former are traceable to the erectile tissue. The uterus (or womb, matrix, lo-repov,) is a hollow, muscular organ, with very thick walls, situated in the pelvic cavity between the rectum and the urinary bladder. In the case of pregnancy it receives the ovum, retains and supports it during the development of the foetus, and expels it at the time of parturition. The Fallopian tubes, extending from each upper angle of the uterus to their ovarian opening, conduct the ovum from the ovary to the uterine cavity. During utero-gestation, the uterus undergoes a great enlargement in size and capacity, as well as important structural changes. Fig. 329.—Anterior View op the Uterus and its Appendages. J a, fundus ; b, body ; c, cervix ; c, front of the upper part of the vagina ; n, n, round ligaments ; r, r, broad ligaments ; s, s, Fallopian tubes ; t, their fimbriated extremities ; u, ostium abdominale ; the position of the ovaries is indicated through the broad ligaments, and the cut edge of the peritoneum is shown along the side of the broad ligaments and across the front of the uterus. In the fully developed virgin condition, which is that to which the following description mainly applies, it is a somewhat pear-shaped body, flattened from before backwards, free above, and connected below with the vagina, into the upper end of which its lower extremity projects. It does not reach above the brim of the pelvis. Its upper end is directed upwards and forwards, the lower downwards and backwards ; so that its axis corresponds with that of the inlet of the pelvis, and forms an angle or sudden curve with the axis of the vagina, which corresponds more nearly with that of the outlet of the cavity. The uterus projects upwards into a fold of the peritoneum, by which the body is invested both before and behind, and the neck also behind, but in front the peri- toneum does not descend farther than the body. Its free surface is in