464 THE UTERUS. longer of the two, while the anterior, although projecting less from its vaginal attachment, is lower in position, and, when the tube is closed, comes into contact with the posterior wall of the vagina. These borders or lips are generally smooth, but, after parturition, they frequently become irregular, and are sometimes fissured or cleft. The wans of the uterus are of great thickness, and the cavity is thus proportionately much reduced in size. The part within the body is triangular, and flattened from before backwards, so that its anterior and posterior walls touch each other. The base of the triangle is directed upwards, and is curvilinear, the convexity being turned to- wards the interior of the uterus. The cavity, narrowing gradually, is prolonged through the wall of the organ towards its two superior angles, at each of which a minute foramen leads into the narrow canal of the Fallopian tube. At the junction of the body with the neck, the cavity is slightly constricted, and thus forms what is sometimes named the internal orifice (os uteri internum, isthmus vel ostium uteri) ; this opening is often smaller than the os externum, and is of a circular form. That portion of the cavity which is within the neck is tubular and slightly flattened before and behind ; it is somewhat dilated in the middle, and opens inferiorly into the vagina by the os tincae. Its inner surface is marked by two longitudinal ridges or columns, which run, one on the anterior, the other on the posterior wall, and from both of which rugae are directed obliquely upwards on each side, so as to present an appear- ance which has been named arbor vitce uterinus, also palmce plicatce: this structure is most strongly marked anteriorly. Structure.—The walls of the uterus consist of an external serous covering, an internal mucous membrane, and a thick intermediate substance which is chiefly muscular. The serous covering or peritoneal layer has been already referred to. Muscular Wall.—The thick middle part of the wall of the uterus is of a very dense consistence: it is mainly composed of bundles of muscular fibres of the plain variety, of small size in the unimpregnated uterus, but greatly enlarged in the gravid state. These fibres inter- lace closely with each other, but are disposed in bands and layers, and are intermixed with fibro-areolar tissue, a large number of blood-vessels and lymphatics, and some nerves. The areolar tissue is more abundant near the outer surface. The arrangement of the muscular fibres is best studied in the uterus at the full period of gestation, in which the bands and layers formed by them become augmented in size, and much more distinctly developed. They may be referred to three sets or orders, viz., external, internal, and intermediate. Those of the external set are arranged partly in a thin superficial sheet, immediately beneath the peritoneum, and partly in bands and incomplete strata, situated more deeply. A large share of these fibres, beginning as longitudinal bands at the cervix, arch transversely and obliquely over the fundus and adjoining part of the body of the organ, and converge at either side towards the commencement of the round ligaments, along which they are in part prolonged to the groin. Others pass off in like manner to the Fallopian tubes, and strong transverse bands from the anterior and posterior surfaces are extended into the ovarian ligaments. A con- siderable number of thinly scattered fibres also pass at each side into the duplicature of the broad ligament, and others are described as run- ning back from the cervix of the uterus into the recto-uterine folds of