325 THE TONGUE. on the inner surface of the dentine, so that the central cavity of a tooth becomes gradually diminished in size, whilst the pulp slowly shrinks or disappears. This additional substance, formerly regarded as an exten- sion of the cement into the interior of the tooth,— has been shown to have a distinct structure, in part, resembling dentine, and in part bone. It is traversed by canals, which contain blood-vessels, and are sur- rounded by concentric lamellae like the Haversian canals of bone. From these canals, numerous tubules radiate, larger than the canaliculi of bone, resem- bling, in this respect, and also in their mode of rami- fication, the tubes of the dentine. This new growth may indeed be compared to a collection of miniature pulps, each surrounded by its appertaining dentine, pierced by radiating tubules. It may or may not coalesce with the previously formed dentine; it appears to be produced by a slow conversion of the dental pulp. 2. Dentine of Uepair (Salter).—When the outer surface of the dentine becomes denuded at any place, so that the peripheral ends of the tubules are there exposed, as may happen in the crown from injury or wear of the enamel, or at the cervix from continued friction and abrasion of the cement, a deposition of dental matter occurs on the inner surface of the dentine exactly corresponding in position and extent with the area occupied by the central ends of the exposed tubules. Many of the affected tubules become subsequently filled up by a deposit of hard matter within them, so that on section both the secondary dentine and the corresponding part of the primary dentine appear clearer and more transparent than the remainder of the dentinal substance (see fig. 225). When the surface-injury has been considerable, the dentine of repair is largely in excess, and may in such cases completely fill up the pulp-cavity. THE TONGUE. Fig. 225.—Longitudinal Section of Incisor Tooth showing den- tine OF REPAIR. Slightly Magnified. (Reduced from Salter.) d, d', denuded surfaces of dentine ; r, corre- sponding deposits of se- condary dentine. Two or three incremental lines are observed in the den- tine. The tongue is a muscular organ covered with mucous membrane. By its muscular structure it takes part in the processes of mastication and deglutition, and in the articulation of speech, while its mucous membrane is endowed wTith common and tactile sensibility and is the seat of the sense of taste. The tongue occupies the concavity of the arch of the lower jaw ; posteriorly it is connected with the hyoid bone, and the back part of its upper surface forms the floor of the arch of the fauces ; inferiorly it receives from base to apex the fibres of the genio-glossus muscle, and through the medium of that muscle is attached to the lower jaw. A.—Mucous Membrane.—On the under surface of the tongue the mucous membrane is smooth and thin. It forms a fold in the middle line called the frmnum lingum, placed in front of the anterior border of the genio-glossi muscles. On each side below, as the mucous membrane passes from the tongue to the inner surface of the gums, it is reflected over the sublingual gland. Not far from the line continued forwards from the frsenum, the ranine vein may be distinctly seen through the mucous membrane, and close to it lies the ranine artery. Further out