DEVELOPMENT OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 726 of the bone elements appear to surround the notochord, that structure does not itself, nor by its sheath, contribute to the formation of the vertebral or basi-cranial bones, but merely lies within them ; and the formative material, out of which the bones are produced, is derived from mesoblastic substance which passes inwards from the primordial vertebral plates, and envelopes the chorda external to its sheath. The formation of the notochord, therefore, precedes that of the formative bone-elements which afterwards envelope it, and the remains of the notochord, unaffected directly by any ossifying change, are found in the interior of the commencing bones, and may be traced even for a long time throughout the whole length of the column of the bodies of the vertebras. This important fact was first demonstrated by H. Miiller, of Wurtzburg, who showed further that the notochord did not pass through the anterior arch of the atlas, but was traceable directly from the body of the axis vertebra through its odontoid process, and thence into the basi-occipital and basi-sphenoid bones, reaching as far as the pituitary fossa. (Heinrich Midler, " Ub. d. Vorkommen von Resten des Chorda Dorsalis b. Menschen nach der G-eburt," in " Zeitsch. fiir Rat. Med.," von Henle u. Pfeifer, 1858, b. ii. See also Gegenbaur, " Untersuch. ub. Vergleich. Anat. Das Kopfskelet der Selachier," Leipzig, 1872. W. Miiller, " Bau der Chorda Dorsalis," in " Jenasch. Zeitsch." b. vi. E. Dursy, " Zur Entwick. des Kopfes," 1869, and Mihalkovics, " On the Chorda and Pituitary Body," in " Archiv fiir Mikroscop. Anat.," b. xi., 1875.) It may be mentioned further, as the result of H. Midler's observations, that though in general the chorda passes through the middle of the vertebral bodies, the position was found subject to variation in the caudal portion of the column, where it sometimes passed above, and at other times below, the vertebral bodies. The notochord itself has been generally held to be produced from an intruded central column of mesoblastic cells, and this seems to be the mode of origin in birds ; but it may be doubtful whether it is the same in all animals. In sharks Balfour finds that there is no median column derived from the mesoblast, and attributes the origin of the notochord to the hypoblast (Quart. Journ. of Micro- scop. Sc., Oct. 1874). The same origin is ascribed to it in mammals by Hensen, who finds that the notochord is late of being formed in the rabbit,—an observa- tion confirmed by Kolliker : Mihalkovics, on the other hand, is inclined to refer it in all animals to the epiblast. However this may be, the tendency of recent research appears to be to show that the notochord may be more nearly allied to epithelial structures than to cartilage with which it has generally been previously associated. It is at all events important to note that it is in many respects different from the parts ascertained to proceed from the mesoblast, that it never combines with their elements, and that there is no penetration of its substance by connective tissue or blood-vessels, as happens in all other parts derived from the mesoblast. The interesting observations of Kowalevsky on the existence of a chorda dorsalis in Ascidia (Mem. de l'Acad. de St. Petersbourg, torn. x. and xi., 1867 and 1868), would appear to show that this structure, and the type of development which accompanies it, are not confined to vertebrate animals, and that in them the notochord may present more of a merely vestigial character than constitute an important element in the formation of the skeleton. The constancy of its position and relations, however, is an important fact regarding its history. The notochord does not undergo transverse segmentation in the same manner as the protovertebral plate does. It remains undivided to the last, but in the course of vertebral ossification it shows alternate dimi- nutions and enlargements of its diameter, corresponding in number and position with the vertebral divisions. One of these enlargements is found between the odontoid process and the basi-occipital bone, and