380 THE LIVER. is thrown into wrinkles during the closed state of the orifice, is covered with numerous papillae, and is provided with hairs and sebaceous follicles. The lower end of the rectum and the margin of the anus are, more- over, embraced by certain muscles, which serve to support the bowel, and to close its anal orifice. These muscles, proceeding from within outwards, are, the internal sphincter, the levatores ani, the coccygei, and the external sphincter. The three last muscles have already been described. The internal sphincter muscle (sphincter ani interims) is a muscular ring or rather belt, surrounding the lower part of the rectum, an inch above the anus, and extending over about half an inch of the intestine. It is two lines thick, and is paler than the external sphincter. Its fibres are continuous above with the circular muscular fibres of the rectum, and, indeed, it consists merely of those fibres more numerously developed than elsewhere, and prolonged farther down than the external longitu- dinal fibres. Kohlrausch describes a thin stratum of fibres between the mucous membrane and the internal sphincter, these fibres having- a longitudinal direction. Henle thinks this is nothing more than the stratum of fibres belonging to the proper mucous coat; but Kohlrausch gives it a distinct name, the sustentator tunicae mucosas. (Kohlrausch, An at. unci Phys. d. Beckenorgane. Leipzig, 1854.) Ellis further describes a thin layer of involuntary muscle with radiating fibres which pass from the submucous tissue inside the internal sphincter to end in the subdermic tissue outside. (Illustrations of Dissections. London, 1865. P. 243.) THE LIVER. The liver is an important glandular organ, very constant in the animal series, being found in all vertebrate, and, in a more or less de- veloped condition, in most invertebrate tribes. It secretes the bile, and appears to act, in a manner as yet imperfectly understood, upon the blood which is transmitted through it. Moreover there is formed in its texture a starchy substance (glycogen), very easily converted into sugar. The liver is the largest gland in the body, and by far the most bulky of the abdominal viscera. It measures about 10 or 12 inches trans- versely from right to left, between 6 and 7 inches from its posterior to its anterior border, and about 3J inches from above downwards where thickest, which is towards the right and posterior part. The average bulk, according to Krause, is 88 cubic inches; according to Beale, one hundred. The ordinary weight in the adult is between 50 and 60 ounces. According to the facts recorded by Reid, the liver weighed, in 43 cases out of 82, between 48 and 58 ounces in the adult male ; and in 17 cases out of 36, between 40 and 50 ounces in the adult female. It is generally estimated to be equal to about l-36th of the weight of the whole body ; but in the foetus, and in early life, its proportionate weight is greater. The specific gravity of the liver, according to Krause and others, is between 1*05 and 1*06 : in fatty degeneration this is reduced to 1*03, or even less. The liver is solid to the feel, and of a dull reddish-brown colour, with frequently a dark-purplish tinge along the margin. It has an upper surface smooth and convex, and an under surface, which is uneven and