79 BONE. 2. The articular cavities of bones are sometimes deepened and ex- tended by means of a rim or border of fibro-cartilage. A good example of one of these circumferential or marginal fibro-cartilages is seen in the hip-joint, attached round the lip of the cotyloid cavity. 3. Connecting fibro-cartilages are such as pass between the adjacent surfaces of bones in joints which do not admit of gliding motion, as at the symphysis of the pubes and between the bodies of the vertebra?. They have the general form of disks, and are composed of concentric rings of fibrous tissue with cartilage interposed; the former predomi- nating at the circumference, the latter increasing towards the centre. The bony surfaces between which they pass are usually encrusted with true cartilage. The modifications which they present in particular instances are described in the special anatomy of the joints. 4. The bony grooves in which tendons of muscles glide are lined with a thin layer of fibro-cartilage. Small nodules of this tissue {sesamoid fibro-cartilages) may also be developed in the substance of tendons, of which there is an example in the tendon of the tibialis posticus, where it passes beneath the head of the astragalus. Lastly, fibro-cartilage is sometimes connected with muscular tissue, and gives attachment to muscular fibres, like that which is known to exist at the orifices of the heart. Fibro-cartilage appears under the microscope to be made up of bundles of fibres, like those of ordinary ligament, with cartilage-cells intermixed; but the proportion of the two elements differs much in the different instances above enumerated. In general the fibrous tissue very greatly predominates, and in some cases, as in the interarticular lamina? of the knee-joint, it constitutes almost the entire structure. In the intervertebral disks the cartilage-corpuscles are abundant towards the centre of the mass where the cartilaginous tissue prevails, and the substance is softer. In chemical composition this texture agrees most with ligament, yielding gelatin when boiled. Its blood-vessels are very few, and, according to Toynbee,* are con- fined to the parts that are fibrous. Its vital changes are slow ; it is subject to absorption, but much less readily so than bone; hence it is no uncommon thing to find the intervertebral disks entire when the adjacent bodies of the vertebra? have been destroyed by disease. It has not much tendency to ossify. Little is known concerning the mode of development of fibro-cartilage. It is probable that the matrix is at first hyaline and that fibrous tissue is subsequently developed within it, but whether as an ingrowth from the perichondrium or not is not known with certainty. BONE OR OSSEOUS TISSUE. The bones are the principal organs of support, and the passive in- struments of locomotion. Connected together in the skeleton, they form a framework of hard material, which affords attachment to the soft parts, maintains them in their due position, and shelters such as are of delicate structure, giving stability to the whole fabric, and pre- serving its shape; and the different pieces of the skeleton, being joined * Phil. Trans. 1841.