226 THE SKIN. new growth, is gradually pushed towards the opening, and at last falls out, its root-sheath having previously undergone partial absorption. When a hair is pulled out, a new one grows in its place, provided the follicle (from which the growth proceeds) remains entire. Growth of hair.—On the surface of the papilla or vascular matrix, at the bottom of the follicle, there is a growth of nucleated cells. The cells for the most part lengthen out and unite into the flattened fibres which compose the fibrous part of the hair, and certain of them, previously getting filled with pig- ment, give rise to the coloured streaks and patches in that tissue ; their nuclei, at first, also lengthen in the same manner, but, at last, partly become indistinct. The cells next the circumference expand into the scales which form the imbri- cated cuticular layer. The medulla, where it exists, is formed by the cells nearest the centre ; these retain their primitive figure longer than the rest; they become coherent, and their cavities may coalesce by destruction of their mutually adherent parietes, whilst collections of granular particles of fat or pigment, and occa- sionally minute air globules make their appearance between and in them and around their nuclei, forming an opaque mass, which occupies the axis of the hah*. The substance of the hair, of epidermic nature, is, like the epidermis itself, quite extravascular, but, like that structure also, it is organised and subject to internal organic changes. Thus, in the progress of its growth, the cells change their figure, and acquire greater consistency. In consequence of their elongation, the hair, bulbous at the commencement, becomes reduced in diameter, and cylin- drical above. But it cannot be said to what precise distance from the root organic changes may extend. Some have imagined that the hairs are slowly permeated by a fluid from the root to the point, but this has not been proved. The sudden change of the colour of the hair from dark to grey, which some- times happens, has never been satisfactorily explained : it appears, in some instances at least, to be due to the development of ah between and among the cells composing the hair. Berthold found the rate of growth to be about half-an-inch per month. This was in the hairs of the head. Erasmus Wilson states that in the beard the rate of growth is £ inch per week. Distribution and arrangement.—Hairs are found on all parts of the skin except the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, the dorsal surface of the third phalanges of the fingers and toes, the upper eyelids, the glans, and the inner surface of the prepuce. On the scalp they are set in groups, on the rest of the skin for the most part singly. Except those of the eyelashes, which are im- planted perpendicularly to the surface, they have usually a slanting direction, which is wonderfully constant in the same parts. Chemical nature.—The chemical composition of hah has been investigated principally by Vauquelin, Scherer, and Van Laer. When treated with boiling alcohol and with ether, it yields a certain amount of oily fat, which is red or dark-coloured, according to the tint of the hah. The animal matter of the hair thus freed from fat, is supposed to consist of a substance yielding gelatine, and a protein compound containing a large proportion of sulphur. It is insoluble in water, unless by long boiling under pressure, by which it is reduced into a viscid mass. It readily and completely dissolves in caustic alkalies. By calcination, hair yields from 1 to 1^ per cent, of ash, which consists of the following ingredients —viz., peroxide of iron, and according to Vauquelin, traces of manganese, silica, chlorides of sodium and potassium, sulphates of lime and magnesia, and phosphate of lime. With the exception of the bones and teeth, no tissue of the body with- stands decay after death so long as the hah, and hence it is often found preserved in sepulchres, when nothing else remains but the skeleton. GLANDS OF THE SKIN. The sudoriferous glands or sweat-glands (figs. 155 and 156).— These are seated on the under surface of the corium, and at variable depths in the subcutaneous adipose tissue. They have the appearance of small round reddish bodies, each of which, when examined with the