500 THE CEREBRUM. tudinal striation. The smaller angular corpuscles are also nucleated and provided with processes which run in various directions, and pro- bably unite into a fine network. Rounded cells, tolerably uniform in size, (about ?^tli of an inch in diameter) also occur. They have no visible processes. Both these and the angular cells often appear to lie within clear spaces in the matrix. The fibres radiate from the white centre of each convolution in all directions into the grey cortex, having a course for the most part per- pendicular to the free surface. In passing through the grey substance they are arranged in bundles about —i--th °f an mcn m diameter, and thus separate some of the nerve cells, giving them a columnar arrange- ment. The direction of the fibres varies, according to the part of the convolution in which they occur, whether near the summit or the base, and the radiating fibres are wanting in the sulcus between two convo- lutions, where the fibres have an arcifonn course, corresponding to the surface of the sulcus, and seem to connect the adjacent convolutions. Other fibres pass in all directions through the grey substance, connecting its several layers. Gerlach has called attention to the presence of bundles of meclullated fibres at right angles to the radiating bundles, and forming with them a large-meshed network, in the interstices of which is a still finer network, composed of the finest non-medullated nerve fibres, and formed, he believes, by the interlacement and anasto- mosis of the ramifying processes from the nerve cells. The coarser fibres are said to arise from the cell-processes, either directly, or indi- rectly through this fine network. Layers of the cortex.—The form and arrangement of the cells differ at various depths from the surface of the convolution, and as these variations possess considerable uniformity, several layers are con- stituted, having more or less definite histological characters. Their correspondence to the stratification distinguishable by the naked eye is, however, somewhat doubtful. Differences exist between the arrangement of the structural elements in different parts of the brain. The most common type is that which is best seen in the convolutions of the parietal lobe. In this most observers agree in recognising five layers * (fig. 391). 1. The most external layer is narrow, about ^th of the whole thickness of the grey cortex. It is pale, and contains few cells, and those are small, oval, pyramidal, stellate, with fine processes, and are embedded in a granular material. A few nerve fibres occur in it, and have been said to be connected with the nerves of the pia mater. Some observers have described a network of fine fibres throughout the layer connected with the processes of its cells. On account of the small number of nervous elements the connective tissue elements of the cortex can be seen in this layer with more distinctness than elsewhere. 2. The next layer, of nearly the same width, is composed of small thickly-set nerve cells, oval, angular, or pyramidal, with branching processes. 3. The third layer is of paler tint and much greater width. It con- tains pyramidal branching cells, large and small, arranged as above described, with the pointed extremities towards the surface of the con- volution, and separated into groups by bundles of radiating fibres. The inner portion of the layer, in which the cells are larger and the * The division into five layers, described by Meynert, is substantially that of Dr. Lockart Clarke (Proc. Royal Soc, 1863).