THE SPINAL MARROW. 749 Fig. 549. developed out of the cells composing the grey matter or from separate blastema to which the mesoblast may in part contribute. It is combined with connective tissue elements, and its structure is different from that of the grey substance, which is undoubtedly produced by multiplication and differentiation of the involuted epiblastic cells. Fig. 549.— Transverse Section op Hale the Cartilaginous Vertebral Column and the Spinal Cord in the Cervical Part op a Human Embryo op from nine to ten weeks (from Kolliker) ^ c, central canal lined with epithelium ; a, anterior column ; p, posterior column ; p', band of Groll; g, ganglion of the posterior root; p r, posterior root ; a r, anterior root passing over the ganglion ; d m, dura-matral sheath, omitted near p r, to show the posterior roots ; b, body of the vertebra ; c h, chorda dorsalis ; 11 a, neural arch of the vertebra. On the fifth and sixth days in the chick, according to Foster and Balfour, the white columns increase rapidly in size, and the anterior median fissure begins to be formed between the anterior columns by their swelling out- wards and leaving its interval between them. It is at first wide and shallow, and soon receives a lining of vascular connective tissue or pia mater. The commissures are now also formed ; the anterior grey commissure first, then the pos- terior grey, and somewhat later the anterior white commissure. In the further increase of the anterior and lateral white columns as they thicken, they become more united together on each side, so that they can only be arbitrarily distinguished; the fibres of the roots of the nerves are traced through them into the grey matter ; the cornua of grey matter become more and more developed, and the fissures between the white columns deepen, while the connective tissue or pia-matral septa run more completely inwards through the white substance. Angular cells with radiating processes make their appearance in the grey matter, and the nerve-fibres both of the grey and white matter become more distinct. The cylindrical cells lining the central canal retain their distinctness, and they are more completely separated from the grey matter by the delicate tissue of the ependyma. Throughout the greater part of the spinal marrow the dorsal part of the primary medullary hollow is obliterated to form the fissure, but in the sacral region of birds it opens out in the rhomboidal sinus, and in the filum terminale of the human spinal marrow the whole primary medullary cavity remains. The spinal CORD has been found by Kolliker already in the form of a cylinder in the cervical region of an embryo four weeks old. Un-united borders have been seen by Tiedemann in the ninth week towards the lower end of the cord, the perfect closing of the furrow being delayed in that part, which is slightly