273 STRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. ROOT OP THE LUNG. The root of each lung is composed of the bronchus and the large blood-vessels, together with the nerves, lymphatic vessels, and glands, connected together by areolar tissue, and enclosed in a sheath of the pleura. The root of the right lung lies behind the superior vena cava and part of the right auricle, and below the azygos vein, which arches over it to enter the superior cava. That of the left lung passes below the arch of the aorta, and in front of the descending aorta. The phrenic nerve descends in front of the root of each lung, and the pneumogastric nerve behind, whilst the ligamentum latum pulmonis is continued from the lower border. The bronchus, together with the bronchial arteries and veins, the lymphatics and lymphatic glands, are placed on a plane posterior to the great blood-vessels; the pulmonary artery lies more forward than the bronchus, and to a great extent conceals it, whilst the pulmonary veins are placed still farther in advance. The pulmonary plexuses of nerves lie on the anterior and posterior aspect of the root, beneath the pleura, the posterior being the larger of the two. The order of position of the great air-tube and pulmonary vessels from abo^e downwards differs on the two sides; for whilst on the right side the bronchus is highest and the pulmonary artery next, on the left, the air-tube, in passing obliquely beneath the arch of the aorta, is depressed below the level of the left pulmonary artery, which is the highest vessel. On both sides the pulmonary veins are the lowest of the three. Before entering the substance of the lung, the bronchus divides into two branches, an upper and a lower, one for each. lobe. The lower branch is the larger of the two, and on the right side gives off a third small branch which enters the middle lobe of that lung. The pulmonary artery also divides, before penetrating the lung to which it belongs, into two branches, of which the lower is the larger and supplies the inferior lobe. On the right side the upper of these two branches gives the branch to the middle lobe. A similar arrange- ment prevails in regard to the right pulmonary veins, the upper one of which is formed by branches proceeding from the superior and middle lobes of the right lung. STRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. Coverings.—Beneath the serous covering, already noticed, there is placed a thin layer of subserous areolar tissue mixed with a large number of elastic fibres. It is continuous with the areolar tissue in the interior of the lung, and has been described as a distinct coat under the name of the second or deeper layer of the pleura. In the lungs of many animals, such as the lion, seal, and leopard, this subserous layer forms a very strong membrane, composed principally of elastic tissue ; in others, for instance the guinea-pig, a network of plain muscular fibres is found which have a general radiating direction from the apex. A close plexus of lymphatic vessels is also met with in this sub-plenral tissue : these vessels communicate on the one side by means of stomata with the pleural cavity, and on the other, as will be "afterwards noticed, with a network of similar vessels in the interalveolar septa of the lunirs (Klein). T 2