THE BLOOD. 30 Serum.—This is a thin and usually transparent liquid, of a pale yellowish hue ; it is, however, sometimes turbid, or milky, and this turbidity may depend upon different conditions, but most commonly on excess of fatty particles. The specific gravity of serum ranges from 1*025 to 1*030, but is most commonly between 1*027 and 1*028 (Nasse), and is more constant than that of the blood. The solid contents of the serum are not more than 8 or 9 in 100 parts; the proportion of water being, for males 90*88, and for females 91*71. It is always more or less alkaline. When heated, it coagulates, in consequence of the large quantity of albumin it contains; and after separation of the albumin, a thin saline liquid remains, sometimes named "serosity." The following ingredients are found in the serum :— Albumin.—This principle is partly combined with soda as an albuminate ; its quantity may be determined (after previous removal of paraglobulin) by precipitating it in the solid form by means of heat or alcohol, washing with distilled water, drying, and weighing the mass. Its proportion is about 80 in 1000 of serum, or nearly 40 in 1000 of blood. Serum-albumin differs from albumin obtained from white of egg in the fact of its not being precipitated by ether ; in other respects it closely resembles that substance. Albumin is coagulated and trans- formed into an insoluble variety by heat. Albumin is closely allied to paraglobulin, fibrinogen, myosin, and many other nitrogenized substances met with in the animal economy : they are therefore com- monly grouped together as albuminoid substances, protein bodies, or proteids. Albuminoids are characterised by their low diffusibility and their readiness, when in solution, to take on the solid condition, or to coagulate. They therefore belong to the colloid substances of Graham. They are precipitated from their solutions by alcohol, mineral acids, tannic acid, corrosive sublimate, and many other metallic salts. They are all coloured yellow by nitric acid, becoming red on subsequent addition of ammonia. Acid nitrate of mercury produces a red colour, and sulphate of copper and potash a violet colour in their solutions. The albu- minoids all consist of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen, together with a small amount of sulphur. By the action of the gastric juice ordinary albuminoids are transformed into an exceedingly soluble, diffusible variety termed jjqjton. Albumin combines with both acids and alkalies forming respectively acid- albumin or syntonin, and alkali-albumin or casein. Paraglobulin.—When serum is diluted with about ten times its bulk of distilled water, and subjected to a stream of carbonic acid, the liquid becomes turbid, and paraglobulin is precipitated. It may also be obtained from the diluted serum by the cautious addition of acetic acid, but the least excess of acid will re-dissolve the precipitate. Para- globulin is a protein compound, agreeing very nearly with albumin in elementary composition, so far as this has been ascertained. Para- globulin is nearly insoluble in pure water, but readily dissolves on a very slight addition of either an alkali or an acid. Weak acids throw it down from its solution in alkali, but when added in slight excess re-dissolve it. In like manner it is precipitated by alkalies from its solutions in acids and re-dissolved by excess. From neither of these solutions is it thrown down by heat. It is dissolved by neutral salts, and from this solution heat throws it down in an insoluble precipitate. From its slightly alkaline solution in water it is thrown down by a stream of carbonic acid, and may be re-dissolved by passing air or