STRUCTURE OF THE RETINA. G15 8. The pigmentary layer.—This layer, which bounds the retina externally, and was formerly known as the hexagonal pigment of the choroid, consists of a single stratum of hexagonal epithelium cells (fig. 425). The outer surface of each cell—that which is turned towards the choroid—is smooth and flattened, and the part of the cell near this surface is devoid of pigment, and usually contains the nucleus ; the inner boundary, on the other hand, is not well marked, for the substance of the cell, which here is loaded with pigment, is pro- longed into excessively fine, straight, filamentous processes (fig. 425, V), which extend for a certain distance between and amongst the outer segments of the rods and cones. The pigment granules are placed for the most part, both in the cells and cell-processes, with their long axes at right angles to the surface of the retina. The intervals between the rods and cones are only partially filled by the processes of the hexagonal pigment-cells ; the remaining part appears to be occu- pied by a clear pellucid material which, according to Henle and H. Miiller, is of a soft elastic consistence during life and in the fresh condition, but soon liquefies after death; but according to Schwalbe, would appear to be normally liquid. In the embryo, between the hexagonal pigment and the remainder of the retina, there is a distinct cavity or cleft filled with fluid (remains of primary optic vesicle). The sustentacular tissue of the retina: Miillerian or radial fibres.-—In addition to the elements above described, which are for the most part special to the particular layer where they occur, there are certain other structures which are common to all the layers, passing through the whole thickness of the retina from the inner almost to the outer surface, and, if not actually themselves of the nature of connec- tive tissue, at least serving the same kind of purpose, namely, to bind together and support the more essential and delicate structures of the membrane. These sustentacular fibres or fibres of Miiller, commence at the inner surface of the retina by a broad conical base or foot, which is not solid but hollowed out, the hollow being filled by granular pro- toplasmic substance, and often containing a nucleus. The feet of adjoining fibres are united together at their edges, so as to give, in vertical sections of the retina, the appearance of a distinct boundary line (fig. 419) ; this has been named membrana Umitans interna, but, as may be inferred from the above description, it is in no way a continuous or independent membrane. The fibres pass through the nerve- and ganglionic layers, with a smooth contour, or with but two or three well- marked lateral projections from which fine lamellar processes extend amongst the elements of these layers : gradually diminishing in size they then traverse the inner molecular layer, without, according to Schwalbe, becoming actually connected with the soft substance which mainly composes it, although in the mammalian retina the fibres are marked by slight projections in passing through this layer. In the inner nuclear layer they again give off excessively delicate flattened processes from their sides, which pass around the inner granules and serve to support them. Moreover, each Miillerian fibre is here charac- terised by the presence of a clear oval or elliptical nucleus (already mentioned in the description of the inner nuclear layer), containing a distinct nucleolus, and situated at one side of, and in close apposition to the fibre to which it belongs. On reaching the outer nuclear layer (after passing through the outer molecular) the fibres of Miiller break