CEREBELLUM. 518 successively the inferior posterior lobe, the slender lobe, the Mventral lobe, the amygdala (fig. 361, 4), and the subpeduncular lode or flocculus. This last-named lobule projects behind and below the middle peduncle of the cerebellum. It is connected by a slender pedicle of white fibres to the rest of the hemisphere ; but its exposed surface is grey, and is sub- divided into five or six small laminae. Vallecula.—Within the vallecula (fig. 362), or on its borders, the following parts are seen. Commencing from behind, a conical and laminated projection named the pyramid (p), is first met with. In front of that is another smaller projection, called the uvula (u), which is placed between the two rounded lobes at the sides of the vallecula, named the amygdala (removed at p, v); these terms having been suggested by a comparison with the parts so named in the throat. Between the uvula and amygdala? on each side, but concealed from view, is extended a ridge of grey matter indented on the surface, and named the furrowed band. Still further forward is the anterior pointed termination of the inferior vermiform process, named the nodule (above n), which projects into the fourth ventricle, and has been named the laminated tubercle (Malacarne). On each side of the nodule is a thin white lamella of a semilunar form, which is attached by its posterior convex border, and is free and con- cave in front (p v). The outer ends of these lamellae are attached to the fiocculi, and the inner ends to the nodule, and to each other in front of that projection. The two lamellae together constitute the pos- terior medullary velum, which has been compared with the valve of Yieussens,—the one being attached to the superior extremity and the other to the inferior extremity of the middle or vermiform portion of the cerebellum. This posterior velum is covered in and concealed by the amygdalae, and cannot be properly seen until those lobules have been turned aside or removed, as in the figure (see also fig. 384). Internal Structure.—The central part is composed of white matter, which sends out spreading and gradually thinning layers into the interior of all the laminae, larger and smaller, of the grey substance which form a continuous covering on the surface. In consequence of * this arrangement of the white and grey substances, sections of the cerebellum crossing the laminae, and dividing the grey and white sub- stance together, present a beautifully foliated or arborescent appear- Fig. 363.—Outline Sketch of a Ver- tical Section of the Cerebellum to show the corpus dentatum in its Medullary Stem. (AllenThomson.) | The section has been carried through the left lateral part of the pons so as to divide the superior peduncle and pass nearly through the middle of the left cerebellar hemisphere. The olivary body has also been divided longitudinally so as to expose in section its corpus dentatum. cr, crus cerebri ; /, fillet ; q, corpora quadrigemina ; sp, superior peduncle of the cerebellum divided ; m p, middle pe luncle or lateral part of the pons Varolii, with fibres passing from it into the white stem ; a v, continuation of the white stem radiating towards the arbor vita? of the folia ; c d, corpus dentatum ; o, olivary body with its corpus dentatum ; p, anterior pyramid.