THE CEREBRUM. 528 it is often continued into the occipital lobe. Its horizontal portion divides the parietal lobe into two portions, superior and inferior parietal lobules, and it may be bridged across by a secondary convolution con- necting those lobules. Fig. 371. Fig. 371.—Lateral View of the Right Cerebral Hemisphere (from Sappey after Foville). 1, fissure of Rolando; 2, ascending frontal convolution ; 3, superior, 3', middle, and 7, inferior frontal convolutions ; 4, a bridging convolution between the superior and middle frontal convolutions ; 5, ascending parietal convolution ; 6, 8, supra-marginal con- volution (8 in front points to part of the inferior frontal convolution); 9, 9, superior temporo-sphenoidal convolution ; 10, 11, 12, convolutions of the island of Reil or central lobe; 13, orbital convolutions; 14, lower extremity of middle temporo-sphenoidal con- volution ; 15, occipital lobe. Convolutions. The ascending parietal is the convolution which lies behind the fissure of Eolando, and parallel to the ascending frontal convolution, with which it is usually continuous, both above and below, the connection below being much larger than that above. In its lower half the ascending parietal convolution lies in front of the commence- ment of the intra-parietal fissure. Above, it is continuous with the superior parietal lobule. The superior parietal lobule (fig. 370) is that part of the parietal lobe which lies above the intra-parietal fissure, and behind the last de- scribed convolution. Its posterior limit is the boundary of the parietal lobe, the external parietooccipital fissure, outside the extremity of which a narrow convolution usually connects this lobule with the occi- pital lobe, and is termed the first connecting or annectant convolution. The inferior parietal looule (fig. 370) lies behind the ascending and below the horizontal part of the intra-parietal fissure. It is divided somewhat artificially into two convolutions, a supramarginal gyrus, above and in front of the extremity of the Sylvius fissure, and an angular gyrus behind it. The supra-marginal convolution (s. m. c.) lies behind the lower end of the intra-parietal sulcus, beneath which it is usually continuous with the ascending parietal convolution. It is bounded above by the same