VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE TEXTURES. 5 often also employed to signify a single principle, force, or agent, which has been regarded as the common source of all vital properties, and the common cause of all vital actions. As ordinary physical forces, such as mechanical motion, heat, electricity, chemical action, and the like, although differing from each other in specific character and mode of operation, are nevertheless shown to be mutually con- vertible and equivalent, and are held to be but different modifications of one and the same common force or " energy," so it may in like manner come to be shown that vital action is similarly related to the physical forces as they are related to each other, and is also a manifestation, under conditions special to the living economy, of the same common energy. 1. Assimilatory Property.—Of the vital properties, there is one which is universal in its existence among organised beings, namely, the property, with which all such beings are endowed, of converting into their own substance, or " assimilating," alimentary matter. The opera- tion of this power is seen in the continual renovation of the materials of the body by nutrition, and in the increase and extension of the organised substance, which necessarily takes place in growth and repro- duction ; it manifests itself, moreover, in individual textures as well as in the entire organism. It has been called the "assimilative force or property," " organising force," " plastic force," and is known also by various other names. But in reality the process of assimilation pro- duces two different effects on the matter assimilated : first, the nutrient material, previously in a liquid or amorphous condition, acquires deter- minate form ; and secondly, it may, and commonly does, undergo more or less change in its chemical qualities. Such being the case, it seems reasonable, in the mean time, to refer these two changes to the opera- tion of two distinct agencies, and, with Schwann, to reserve the name of " plastic" force for that which gives to matter a definite organic form ; the other, which he proposes to call " metabolic," being already generally named " vital affinity." Respecting the last-named agency, however, it has been long since remarked, that although the products of chemical changes in living bodies for the most part differ from those appearing in the inorganic world, the difference is nevertheless to be ascribed, not to a peculiar or exclusively vital affinity different from ordinary chemical affinity, but to common chemical affinity operating in circumstances or conditions which present themselves in living bodies only. 2. Vital Contractility.—When a muscle, or a tissue containing muscular fibres, is exposed in an animal during life, or soon after death, and scratched with the point of a knife, it contracts or shortens itself; and the property of thus visibly contracting on the application of a stimulus is named " vital contractility," or " irritability," in the restricted sense of this latter term. The property in question may be called into play by various other stimuli besides that of mechanical irritation—especially by electricit}', the sudden application of heat or cold, salt, and various other chemical agents of an acrid character, and, in a large class of muscles, by the exercise of the will, or by involuntary mental stimuli. The evidence that a tissue possesses vital contractility is derived, of course, from the fact of its contracting on the application of a stimulus.