SECRETING GLANDS. 231 SECRETING- GLANDS. The term gland has been applied to various objects, differing widely from each other in nature and office, but the organs of which it is pro- posed to consider generally the • structure in the present chapter, are those devoted to the function of secretion. By secretion is meant a process in an organised body, by which various matters, derived from the organism, are collected and discharged at particular parts, in order to be further employed for special purposes in the economy, or to be simply eliminated as redundant material or waste products. Of the former case, the saliva and gastric juice, and of the latter, which by way of distinction is often called "excretion," the urine and sweat may be taken as examples. Secretion is very closely allied to nutrition. In the one process, as in the other, materials are selected from the general mass of blood and appropriated by textures and organs ; but in the function of nutrition or assimilation, the appropriated matter is destined, for a time, to con- stitute part of the texture or organ, whereas in secretion it is immediately discharged at a free surface. The resemblance is most striking in those cases in which the waste particles of the texture nourished are shed or cast off at its surface, as in the cuticle and other epithelial tissues. In man, and in animals which possess a circulating blood, that fluid is the source whence the constituents of the secretions are proximately derived ; and it is further ascertained, that some secreted matters exist ready formed in the blood, and require only to be selected and separated from the general mass, whilst others would seem to be prepared from the materials of the blood, by the agency of the secreting organ. Among the secreted substances belonging to the former category, several, such as water, common salt, and albumen, are primary constituents of the blood ; but others, as urea, uric acid, and certain salts, are the result of changes, both formative and destructive, which take place in the solid textures and in the blood itself, in the general process of nutrition. Again, as regards those ingredients of the secretions which are prepared or elaborated in the secretory apparatus, it is to be observed, that the crude material may undergo changes in organic form, as well as in chemical composition. Evidence of this is afforded by the solid cor- puscles found in many secretions, as well as by the seminal cells and spermatozoa produced in the testicle. In the structural adaptations of a secreting apparatus, it is in the first place provided that the blood-vessels approach some free surface from which the secretion is poured out. The vessels, however, do not open upon the secreting surface, for their coats, as well as the tissue covering them, are permeable to liquids ; and the most favourable conditions for the discharge of fluid are ensured by the division of the vessels into their finest or capillary branches, and by the arrangement of these capillaries in close order, as near as possible to the surface. In this way, their coats are reduced to the greatest degree of tenuity and simplicity, and the blood, being divided into minute streams, is extensively and thoroughly brought into contact with the permeable parietes of its containing chan- nels, as well as effectually and, by reason of its slow motion, for a long- time exposed to those influences, whether operating from within or without the vessels, which promote transudation. Such a simple arrangement as that just indicated is sufficient for the