STRUCTURE OF THE BLADDER. 423 angle in which the obliterated hypogastric artery lies. The superior false ligament (ligamentum suspensorium) is the portion of peritoneum between the ascending parts of the epigastric arteries, and reaches from the summit of the bladder to the umbilicus. Interior of the bladder.—On opening the bladder, its internal surface is found to be lined by a smooth membrane, which is compara- tively loosely attached to the other coats, so that in the empty con- dition of the organ it is nearly everywhere thrown into small wrinkles or rugae, which disappear as soon as the bladder is distended. Besides these, the interior of the bladder is often marked hj reticular elevations or ridges, corresponding with fasciculi of the muscular coat. At the lower and anterior part of the bladder is seen the orifice leading into the urethra, around which the mucous membrane is corru- gated longitudinally. Immediately behind the urethral opening, at the anterior part of the fundus, is a smooth triangular surface, having its apex turned forwards, which, owing to the firmer adhesion of the mucous membrane to the subjacent tissues, never presents any rugae, even when the bladder is empty. This surface is named the trigone (trigonum vesicas, Lieutaud) ; at its posterior angles are the orifices of the two ureters, situated about an inch and a half from each other, and nearly the same distance from the anterior angle, where the bladder opens into the urethra. The orifices of the ureters, presenting the appearance of oval slits, are directed obliquely forwards and inwards : they are united by a curved elevation, convex forwards, which extends generally outwards and backwards beyond them, and which corresponds in position with a muscular band which joins them together and to the neck of the bladder. Proceeding forwards from opposite the middle of this, is another slight elevation of the mucous surface, named the uvula vesica (luette vesicale), which projects from below into the urethral orifice. In the female, the trigone is small, and the uvula indistinct. In the male the uvula lies a little iu advance of the middle lobe of the prostate, and is sometimes prolonged on the floor of the prostatic portion of the urethra. It is produced by a thickening of the submucous tissue. In its natural state this may contribute to the more perfect closure of the orifice of the bladder ; when enlarged by disease it frequently pro- duces serious obstruction at the commencement of the urethra. STRUCTURE OF THE BLADDER. The bladder is composed of a serous, a muscular, and a mucous coat, united together by areolar tissue, and supplied with numerous blood- vessels and nerves. The serous or peritoneal coat is a partial covering, investing only the posterior and upper half of the bladder, and reflected from it upon the surrounding parts in the manner already described in detail. The muscular coat consists of unstriped muscular fibres, so ar- ranged as to warrant the usual description of them as forming layers, the outer of which consists of bundles of fibres more or less longitudinal, and the next of fibres more circular in disposition • while beneath this, is another delicate longitudinal layer more recently recognised. The external or longitudinal fibres (fig. 306, A, a, B, b, and fig. 307) are most distinctly marked on the anterior and posterior surfaces of the bladder. Commencing in front at the neck of the organ,