670 THE NOSE. Fig. 485. surface are prolonged at their deep extremities into a process generally somewhat thickened towards its deeper end, which usually includes a number of fatty granules ; and from this thickened part branches pro- ceed, which are stated by Exner and Martin to communicate with those of neighbouring cells, so as to form a communicating network through- out the extent of the membrane, underneath the epithelium. Between and amongst these branching central ends of the columnar cells there are a large number of peculiar spindle-shaped cells (fig. 485, ~b), each consisting of a large, clear nucleus surrounded by a relatively small amount of granular protoplasm. From each cell proceeds a superficial and a deep process. The superficial process (c) is a cylindrical or slightly tapering thread passing directly to the surface, and terminating abruptly at the same level as the epithelial cells between which it lies : the deep process (d) is more slender, and passes vertically inwards. This last frequently presents a beaded ap- pearance similar to that observed in fine nerve-filaments, and con- sidered to be of a similar accidental origin. These cells were termed by Max Schultze, their discoverer, olfac- tory cells, to distinguish them from the columnar epithelium cells above described, than which they are much more numerous, and which they entirely surround with their fine rod-like peri- pheral processes. It is probable that their fine varicose central processes are directly continuous with the fibrils of the olfactory nerve, but the continuity has never been actually observed. The nucleated bodies of the olfactory cells are several rows deep, and form a layer of considerable thickness beneath the columnar cells. Fig. 485.—Cells and Terminal Nerve-fibres op the Olfactory Region (from Frey after Schultze). Highly magnified. 1, from the frog ; 2, from man ; a, epithelial cell, extending deeply into a ramified process ; h, olfactory cells ; c, their peripheral rods; e, their extremities, seen in 1 to be prolonged into fine hairs ; d, their central filaments ; 3, olfactory nerve- fibres from the dog ; a, the division into fine fibrillae. be met with between the two, a common network, to which, The superficial process of the olfactory cell was observed by Schultze to be sur- mounted by a short, stiff projection (fig-. 485, 2 <?), and has been so described by others; but it is now agreed that this appearance results from the coagulation of albuminous matter escaped from the interior of the process. Long and fine hair-like pro- cesses do, however, exist on the olfactory membranes of amphibia, reptiles, and birds (fig. 485,1 <?), but they have not been observed in mammals. A doubt has been thrown by Exner upon the definiteness of the distinction between the epithelial and the olfactory cells of this region : he states that every transition may and that the central processes of both end in moreover, the nerve fibrils are distributed.