755 FUNDAMENTAL PARTS OF THE BRAIN. and in the part behind it to be covered only by membrane, and to present an opening from the cavity into the posterior sub-arachnoid space. From what has before been said of the relation of the fundamental parts of the brain to the basis of the skull, it will be seen that the cerebral development is intimately connected also with the great cranial flexure which occurs at the pituitary fossa ; for while the infundibular prolongation of the thalamencephalon projects down into this fossa, and the lamina terminalis rises in front in the position of the original fore- most part of the encephalon, certain parts of the brain may be con- sidered as situated posterior to this point, viz., the mesencephalon with crura cerebri, cerebellum with pons Varolii, and medulla oblongata, while the cerebral hemispheres, with the corpora striata, corpus cal- losum, and fornix, notwithstanding their enormous proportional de- velopment, may be considered as formed by forward expansion, and as situated in front of this turning point. But though the connections of the cerebral hemispheres with the rest of the brain may thus be con- sidered as anterior to the cranial centre, and.while in their earlier stages, and still of small size, they are actually placed as in the lowest Verte- brates, entirely in front of it, yet by the later great proportional development in the higher animals, and especially in man, the cerebral hemispheres come to progress backwards, and successively to cover superiorly the thalami, corpora quadrigemina. the cerebellum, and the medulla oblongata. The connection of the several parts of the brain, with the five funda- mental parts respectively, may be stated in the following tabular form : (Cerebral Hemispheres, Corpora Striata, 1. Prosencephalon.* < porpus Callosum, Fornix, Lateral Ven- | ( tricles, Olfactory bulb (Rhinencephalon). I. Anterior primary Vesicle, < J 2. Thalamencephalon. f Thalami Optici, Pineal gland, Pituitary body, (Diencephalon.) ( Third Ventricle, Optic nerve (primarily). II Middle nrimarv Vesicle 3 Mesencephalon ( Corpora Quadrigemina, Crura Cerebri, Aque- u. unciaie primary vesicle, 6. Mesencepnaion. j duct of Sylvius, Optic nerve (secondarily). f Cerebellum, Pons Varc i. Epencephalon. ( the Fourth Ventricle III. Posterior primary Vesicle. J (.5. f Cerebellum, Pons Varolii, anterior part of ( the Fourth Ventricle. Medulla Oblongata, Fourth Ventricle, Au- The changes which take place in the growth of the brain were first elaborately described by Tiedemann ; they have been investigated by Von Baer, Bischoff, Remak, Reichert, Kolliker, and others. (Tiedemann, " Anatomie und Bildungs- geschichte des Grehims," Nuremberg, 1816 ; Reichert, " Bau des Menschlichen Oehirns," Leipzig, 1859,1861 ; F. Schmidt, " Beitragez. Entwick. des Gehims," in " Zeitschr. f. Wissen. Zool.," 1862 ; Kolliker, " Entwicklungsgeschichte," 1861.) FARTHER DEVELOPMENT OP THE BRAIN IN MAN AND MAMMALS. The medulla oblongata is not completely closed in above by nervous matter. The open part of the medullary tube constitutes the floor of the fourth ventricle, which communicates below with the canal of the spinal cord at the place where the calamus scriptorius is eventually formed, and opens posteriorly into the subarachnoid space. * This and the four following terms are adopted as applicable to the principal secondary divisions of the primordial medullary tube, and as corresponding to the commonly received names of the German embryologists, viz., Vorderhirn, Zwischenhirn, Mittelhirn, Hinter- hirn, and Nachhirn ; or their less used English translations, viz., forebrain, interbrain ('tweenbrain), midbrain, hindbrain, and afterbrain.