MUCOUS MEMBRANE AND GLANDS OF THE LARYNX. 293 With the aid of the laryngoscope it may be seen that in ordinary breathing the rima glottidis is widely open (fig. 191, B,b'), and that in vocalisation the vocal «ords' come closely together ; which is effected principally, no doubt, by the action of the lateral crico-arytenoid muscles, assisted by the arytenoid and perhaps by the thyro-arytenoid, and accompanied with a varying amount of contraction of the crico-thyroid muscles. The regulation of the tension of the vocal cords and of the width of the aperture of the glottis, in the production of high and low pitched notes, is probably accomplished by the crico-thyroid and thyro-arytenoid muscles. The movement of the thyroid on the cricoid cartilage, effected by these muscles during- the passage of the voice from one extreme of the scale to the other, may be detected by placing the tip of a finger over the crico-thyroid ligament. The arytenoid and aryteno-epiglottidean muscles come into action in spasmodic closure of the upper aperture of the larynx; the complete descent of the epiglottis, however, can only take place when the tongue is retracted and the thyroid cartilage pushed against it, as in the act of swallowing. It is remarked by Henle that, with the exception of the crico-thyroid and posterior crico-arytenoid, the muscles of the larynx, namely, those " which lie in the space enclosed by the laminas of the thyroid cartilage, and above the cricoid, the fibres of which are substantially horizontal, may be regarded in their totality as a kind of sphincter. Such a sphincter is found in its simple form embracing the entrance of the larynx in reptiles ; and the complication which it attains in the higher vertebrates arises, like the complication of the muscles generally, from the fibres finding various points of attachment in their course, by which means they are broken up and divided." THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE AND GLANDS OF THE LARYNX. The laryngeal mucous membrane is thin and of a pale colour. In some situations it adheres intimately to the subjacent parts, especially on the epiglottis, and still more in passing over the true vocal cords, on which it is extremely thin and most closely adherent. About the upper part of the larynx, above the glottis, it is extremely sensitive. In or near the aryteno-epiglottidean folds it covers a quantity of loose areolar tissue, which is liable in disease to infiltration, constituting <Bdema of the glottis. Like the mucous membrane in the rest of the air-passages, that of the larynx is covered in the greater part of its extent with a columnar ciliated epithelium, by the vibratory action of which the mucus is urged upwards. The cilia are found higher up in front than on each side and behind, reaching in the former direction as high as the widest portion of the epiglottis, and in the other directions only to a line or two above the superior vocal cords : above these points the epithelium loses its cilia, and gradually assumes a stratified squamous form, like that of the pharynx and mouth. Upon the vocal cords also the epithelium is squamous, although both above and below them it is ciliated columnar. Glands.—The lining membrane of the larynx is provided with numerous glands, which secrete an abundant mucus ; and the orifices of which may be seen almost everywhere, excepting upon and near the true vocal cords. They abound particularly upon the epiglottis, in the substance of which are found upwards of fifty small compound glands, some of them perforating the cartilage. Between the anterior surface of the epiglottis, the hyoid bone and the root of the tongue, is a mass of yellowish fat, erroneously named the epiglottidean gland, in or upon which some real glands may exist. Another collection of glands, namely arytenoid, is placed within the fold of mucous membrane in front of each arytenoid cartilage, from which a series may be traced for-