618 THE EYE. Fig. 428. ■2 inner end may be rounded, pointed, square, or even branched ; the sides of the cells, too, are sometimes uneven. These cells are considered by Kolliker to correspond with the Mullerian fibres of the retina, but according to Scliwalbe these fibres, or rather their united inner ends, are more probably represented by a delicate membrane, which covers the inner ends of the columnar cells and sends fine offsets around and between them, and which he believes to be continuous with the membrana limitans interna. Vessels of the Retina.—A single artery (arteria centralis retinm) passes between the bundles of fibres of the optic nerve to the inner surface of the retina at the middle of the papilla optici (fig. 418, a. It is accompanied by the correspond- ing vein and soon divides into branches (fig. 417), usually two, one above, the other below, each of these again dividing into two branches which arch out towards the sides ; the outer ones are somewhat the larger, and as they bend round the macula lutea they send numerous fine branches into it which end at the margin of the fovea centralis in capillary loops. The main branches of the vessels pass forwards in the nerve-fibre layer, dividing dichoto- mously as they proceed, and giving off fine offsets to the substance of the retina, where they form a close capil- lary network, but this does not extend beyond the inner nuclear layer. So that the outer retinal layers are entirely desti- tute of blood-vessels, and moreover the vascular system of the retina is nowhere in direct communication with the choroidal vessels. Near the entrance of the optic nerve, however, it comes into communication with some offsets from the sclerotic coat, and the choroidal vessels also send in branches, which join the long-meshed network in the optic nerve furnished by the central artery. The arteries of the retina have the usual coats, but the veins resemble capillaries in structure, their walls consisting of a single layer of epithelioid cells. Outside this layer is a space (perivascular lymphatic, His) both in the veins and capillaries, bounded externally by a second epithelioid layer (forming the wall of the lymphatic). Outside this again is found, in the case of the veins, a layer composed of a peculiar retiform tissue ; they appear to have no plain muscular tissue in their wall. These perivascular lymphatics are in communication with the lymphatics of the optic nerve, and may be filled by injecting coloured fluid underneath the sheath which that nerve derives from the pia mater. Other lymph-spaces also become injected by the same process, viz., the interstices between the nerve bundles which radiate from the papilla optici, the capillary space between the limitans interna and the hyaloid membrane of the vitreous humour, and finally even the irregular interstice between the pigmentary layer and the layer of rods and cones (Schwalbe). Fig. 428.—A Small Portion of the Ciliary Part of the Re- tina (Kolliker). 350 Diameters. A, human ; B, from the ox ; 1, pigment-cells ; 2, cells forming the pars ciliaris.