644 THE EAR. The first coil, being much the widest in its curve and composed of the largest portion of the tube, nearly hides the second turn from view j Fig. 456. * Fig- 457. Fig. 456.—Diagrammatic View of the Osseous Cochlea laid open. 1, modiolus or central pillar ; 2, placed on three turns of the lamina spiralis ; 3, scala tympani ; 4, scala vestibuli. Fig. 457.—View of the Osseous Cochlea divided through the Middle (from Arnold), f 1, central canal of the modiolus ; 2, lamina spiralis ossea ; 3, scala tympani ; 4, scala vestibuli ; 5, porous substance of the modiolus near one of the sections of the canalis spiralis modioli. and, bulging somewhat into the tympanum, forms the round elevation on the inner wall of that cavity called the promontory. The modiolus (columella cochleae) forms the central pillar or axis around which the tube and lamina turn spirally. It is much the thickest within the first turn of the cochlea, rapidly diminishing in size in the succeeding parts. The outer surface is dense, being, in fact, composed of the walls of the spiral tube ; but the centre is spongy as far as the last half coil, and is pierced by many small canals, for the passage of the nerves and vessels to the lamina spiralis : one of these canals> larger than the rest {canalis centralis modioli), runs from the base through the centre of the modiolus. The lamina spiralis ossea is a thin, flat plate, growing from and wind- ing around the modiolus, and projecting into the spiral tube, so as to divide it partly into two. Its free margin, which gives attachment in the recent state to the membranous septum, does not reach farther than about half of the distance between the modiolus and the outer wall of the spiral tube. The osseous lamina terminates close to the apex of the cochlea in a hooklike process {hamulus), which partly bounds the helicotrema. The lamina is thin and dense at its free margin ; but nearer the modiolus it is composed of two dense outer plates enclosing a more open and spongy structure, in which are numerous small canals for vessels and nerves, continuous with, but running at right angles to, the canals in the modiolus. Winding around the modiolus, close to the lamina spiralis, is a small canal, named by Rosenthal the canalis spiralis modioli. The scalcc in the osseous cochlea are two in number, distinguished as the scala tympani and scala vestibuli. The scala tympani, the portion of the tube on the basal side of the lamina spiralis, commences at the fenestra rotunda, where in the recent state it is separated from the tympanum by the secondary membrane of the tympanum. Near its commencement is the orifice of a small canal (aqueduclus cochlecc, fig. 453, 9), which extends downwards and inwards through the substance of the petrous part of the temporal bone to near