PACINIAN BODIES. 140 shape, nearly 3^ of an inch long, and of an inch thick. Within Fig. 102. is a core of soft, transparent, homogeneous substance, with sparsely imbedded granules ; outside, a capsule of connective tissue, with oblong nuclei directed transversely to the axis (and rendered more conspicuous by acetic acid or coloration with carmine), which, with perhaps some horizontally wound fibres, give the corpuscle somewhat the appearance of a miniature fir-cone. One, two, or even more nerve- fibres, run to the corpuscle, and proceeding straight, or with serpentine windings, approach the summit, up to this point retaining their dark borders ; they then pass into the core, and, so far as can be seen, end as fine pale fibres. The touch corpuscles are found in the skin of the hand and foot, and one or two other parts, where they are inclosed in certain of the cutaneous papilla? which usually include no vessels. It maybe here observed that loops of nerves are sometimes seen inpapilke without touch-bodies, but probably they belong to a nerve on its way to end in the corpuscle of a neighbouring papilla. Pacinian bodies.—In dissecting the nerves of the hand and foot, certain small oval bodies like little seeds, are found attached to their branches as they pass through the subcutaneous fat on their way to the skin ; and it has been ascer- tained that each of these bodies receives a nervous fibre which terminates within it. The objects referred to were more than a century ago described and figured by Yater,* as attached to the digital nerves, but he did not examine into their struc- ture, and his account of them seems not to have attracted much notice. In more recent times, their existence was again pointed out by Cru- veilhier and other French anatomists, as well as by Pacini of Pisa, who appears to be the first writer that has given an account of the internal structure of these curious bodies, and clearly demonstrated their essential connection with the nervous fibres. The researches of Pacini were followed up by Henle and Kolliker,f who named the corpuscles after the Italian savant; and to their memoir, as well as to more recent papers,^ the reader is referred for details that cannot be conveniently introduced here. The little bodies in question (fig. 102) are, as already said, attached in numbers to the branches of the nerves of the hand and foot, and here and there one or two are found on other cuta- neous nerves. They have been discovered also within the abdomen on the nerves of the solar plexus, and they are nowhere more distinctly seen or more conveniently obtained for examination, than in the mesentery of the cat, between * Abr. Vater, Diss, de Consensu Partium Corp. hum. ; Vitemb. 1741, (recus. inHalleri Disp. Anat. Select, torn. ii.). Ejusd. Museum Anatomicum ; Helmst. 1750. + Ueber die Pacinischen Korperchen ; Zurich, 1844. X Bowman, Cyclop, of Anat. W. Krause, Anat. Untersucliungen ; Hannover, 1861, and Zeits. f. rat. Med. xvii. 1865. T. W. Engelmann, Zeits. f. Wiss. Zool. xiii. 1863. Michelson, Schultze's Archiv, v. 1869. Axel Key and Retzius, Schultze's Archiv, ix. 1873. Fig. 102. —A' Nerve of the Middle Finger, with Paci- nian Bodies at- tached. Natural size (after Henle and Kolliker).