THE THYROID BODY. 295 extends along the whole inferior border, and subsequently spreads upwards through the cartilage. The cricoid cartilage first becomes ossified at its upper border upon each side, near the two posterior articular eminences, and the ossifica- tion invades the lateral parts of the cartilage before encroaching either in front or behind. The arytenoid cartilages become ossified from below upwards. DUCTLESS GLANDS ON THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. THE THYROID BODY. The thyroid body or gland (fig. 198) is a soft reddish and highly vascular organ, consisting of two lateral lodes, united together towards their lower ends by a transverse portion named the isthmus. Viewed Fig. 198.—Sketch showing the Form and Position op the Thyroid Body (Allen Thomson). One-Half the Natural Size. The larynx and surrounding parts are viewed from before ; on the right side the muscles covering the thyroid body are retained, on the left side they are removed ; h, hyoid bone ; ill, right thyro-hyoid muscle ; oh, omo-hyoicl ; sh, stemo-hyoid ; St, sterno-thyroicl ; c, on the crico-thyroid membrane above the cricoid cartilage, points by a dotted line to the right crico- thyroid muscle ; tr, the trachea ; ce, the oesophagus appearing behind and slightly to the left of the trachea ; t, the right lobe of the thyroid body partially seen between the muscles ; t', the left lobe entirely exposed ; i, the isthmus ; It, the fibrous or muscular band termed levator thyroidese, which is more rarely found in the middle line or to the right side, and which existed in the case from which the figure was taken. as a whole, it is convex on the sides and in front, forming a rounded projection upon the trachea and larynx. It is covered by the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroicl, and omo- hyoid muscles, and behind them it comes into contact with the sheath of the great vessels of the neck. Its deep surface is concave where it rests against the trachea and larynx. It usually extends so far back as to touch the lower portion of the pharynx, and on the left side the oesophagus also. The general direction of each lobe is, from below, upwards and backwards, reaching from the fifth or sixth ring of the trachea to the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage, of which it covers the inferior cornu and adjoining part of the ala. The upper thin end of the lobe, which is sometimes called the cornu, is usually connected to the side of the thyroid and cricoid cartilages by areolar tissue. The transverse part, or isthmus (i), which connects the two lateral lobes a little above their lower ends, commonly lies across the third and fourth rings of the trachea, but is very inconstant in size, shape, and position, and the part of the trachea covered by it differs accordingly. From the upper part of the isthmus, or from the adjacent portion of either lobe, a slender conical process, named, from its shape and position, the pyramid, or middle lode, often proceeds upwards to the hyoid bone, to which its apex is attached by loose fibrous tissue.