473 STRUCTURE OF THE OVARY. The deeper substance of the ovary or stroma is chiefly composed of a fine fibro-nuclear tissue, in which the nuclei are remarkably abundant and distinct. It is also mixed with some elastic tissue, and is per- meated by blood-vessels, which are large towards the hilus where they enter, and become gradually smaller towards the surface. Along these blood-vessels in the deeper part of the ovary bands of muscular fibres run, haviug apparently entered from the broad ligament; but they do not extend into the more superficial parts of the ovarian stroma. There is a general disposition of radiation of the bands of stroma from the hilus towards the surface, determined in the deeper part per- haps by the blood-vessels, but in the superficial part modified by its relation to the Graafian follicles. Yvj. 335. 335.—Portion of the Section of the prepared Cat's Ovary, represented in THE PRECEDING FIGURE, MORE HIGHLY MAGNIFIED (from Schrbn). 1, outer covering of the ovary ; 2, fibrous stroma; 3, superficial layer of fibro-nuclear substance ; 3', deeper parts of the same ; 4, blood-vessels ; 5, ovigerms forming a layer near the surface ; G, one or two of the ovigerms sinking deeper and beginning to enlarge ; 7, one of the ovigerms farther developed, now enclosed by a prolongation of the fibrous stroma, and consisting of a small Graafian follicle, within which is situated the ovum covered by the cells of the discus proligerus ; 8, a follicle farther advanced ; 8', another which is irregularly compressed ; 9, the greater part of the largest follicle, in which the following parts are seen ; a, cells of the tunica granulosa lining the follicle ; b, the reflected portion named discus proligerus ; c, vitellus or yelk part of the ovum, surrounded by the zona pellucida ; d, germinal vesicle ; e, germinal spot. Graafian Follicles.—Immediately under the superficial covering of the ovary there is a layer of stroma somewhat different from the deeper parts, and which is so uniformly spread over the organ as to have received the name of cortical layer. This is particularly obvious in the ovaries of young children, in whom this layer is com- paratively thick, and its appearance is granular from the accumulation in it of an immense number of closely set small vesicles, constituting the early condition of the ovarian or Graafian follicles with their con- tained ova. These more numerous and small vesicles, or follicles, are