512 PONS VAROLII. nerve and in front of the grey tubercle, to reach the middle cms of the cerebellum. The median septum or raphe, which exists in the medulla oblongata, is prolonged throughout the whole height of the pons in its back part, but becomes indistinct in approaching the front or basilar surface, except towards its upper and lower edge, where the superficial fibres of the pons are manifestly continuous in the median line with these septal fibres. Bundles of white fibres, belonging to the same system, encircle the crura cerebri at their emergence from the upper border of the pons. The grey matter consists of small round and fusiform cells and forms a network among the bundles of fibres. The fourth ventricle.—The space left between the medulla ob- longata in front, and the cerebellum behind (figs. 358, and 362, n; 384, v 4), is named the fourth ventricle, or ventricle of the cerebellum. The cavity of the ventricle is of a flat rhomboidal shape, being con- tracted above and below, and widest across its middle part. It is bounded laterally by the superior peduncles (fig. 358, 5), and by the line of union of the medulla oblongata and the cerebellum. Behind, it is covered in above by the valve of Yieussens, which extends across between the superior peduncles of the cerebellum, and below by part of the inferior vermiform process of the cerebellum which projects into it. The upper end of the ventricle is continuous with the Sylvian aqueduct or passage (iter) leading up to the third ventricle. Fig. 358. Fig. 358.—View of the Floor of the Fourth ven- tricle with the Posterior Surface of the Medulla Oblongata and neigh- bouring parts (from Sappey after Hirsclifeld and Le- veille). On the left side the three cerebellar peduncles have been cut short ; on the right side the white substance of the cerebellum has been preserved in connection with the supe- rior and inferior peduncles, while the middle one has been cut short. 1, median groove of the fourth ventricle with the fas- ciculi teretes, one on each side ; 2, the same groove at the place where the white stria? of the auditory nerve emerge from it to cross the floor of the ventricle ; 3, inferior peduncle or restiform body ; 4, posterior pyramid ; above this the calamus scriptorius ; 5, superior peduncle or processus a cerebello ad cerebrum ; on the right side the dissection shows the superior and inferior peduncles crossing each other as they pass into the white centre of the cerebellum ; 6, fillet to the side of the crura cerebri ; 7, lateral grooves of. the crura cerebri; 8, corpora quadri- gemina. The anterior surface or floor of the fourth ventricle is formed by the back of the medulla oblongata and pons Varolii. It is shaped like a