DEVELOPMENT OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 760 tlie seventh, and eighth months they are developed with great rapidity, and at the beginning of the last month of intra-nterine life, all the principal ones are marked out. The Sylvian fissure, which afterwards separates the anterior from the middle lobe of each hemisphere, begins as a depression or cleft between them about the fourth month, and, after the great longitudinal, is the first of the fissures to make its appearance. It is followed by the fissure of Rolando, and the vertical or parieto-occipital fissure, and somewhat later by the internal fronto-parietal fissure. After this, the various subordinate fissures dividing the convolutions gradually make their appearance. By the end of the third month the hemis- pheres have extended so far backwards as to cover the thalami; at the fourth they reach the corpora quadrigemina ; at the sixth they cover those bodies and great part of the cerebellum, beyond which they project still further backwards by the end of the seventh month. During the growth of the hemisphere the aperture of the foramen of Monro is extended backwards ; the arched margin of this opening is curved downwards at its extremities, and forms anteriorly the fornix, and posteriorly the corpus fimbriatum and hippocampus major ; above the margin a part of the wall of each hemisphere comes into contact with its fellow, and in the lower part forms the septum lucidum, while above this the hemispheres are united by the development of th.e great commissure, the corpus callosum. The corpus callosum is described by Tiedemann as being first seen about the end of the third month, as a narrow vertical band, extending across between the forepart of the two hemispheres, and subsequently growing backwards. With this view the observations of Schmidt coincide. Reichert, however, maintains that the commissural structure seen at the forepart of the hemispheres is the anterior white commissure, and that the corpus callosum appears in its whole extent at once. The corpora albicantia at first form a single mass : so also do the anterior pillars of the fornix, which are distinguished before the posterior pillars. The posterior pillars are not seen until the fourth or fifth month. At that period the hippocampus minor is also discernible. DEVELOPMENT OE THE NERVES. Spinal Merveso—Very little is yet known as to the mode of origin of the nerves. In their peripheral extension the great majority of them seem to arise more immediately from mesoblastic formative elements, and the manner in which this takes place has been adverted to in the General Anatomy at p. 161. The ganglia and roots of the spinal nerves are first seen to make their appearance in some very close association with the protovertebral segments. In this the ganglion comes to be distin- guishable as a mass by itself, and the anterior and posterior roots follow, with their junction in the part forming the nerve-trunk beyond the ganglion. But according to recent observations by Balfour in Elasmo- branch fishes (Scyllium and Torpedo), it would appear that both the anterior and posterior roots may arise in these animals in a closer con- nection with the nervous centre than was previously believed, and as independent outgrowths from the involuted epiblast of the neural canal. The posterior roots are the first to appear, and commence by an outgrowth at the summit (dorsal median groove) of the neural canal, and gradually pass outwards from thence to reach their permanent place of origin in a posterior lateral furrow. A subsequent division of the nerve rudiment takes place into root, ganglion, and a part of the nerve beyond. The anterior roots spring by an outgrowth from the antero-lateral angles of the cord, one for each muscular plate nearly in the place