447 STRUCTU11E OF THE TESTICLE. interior of the gland. This vascular network, together with its con- necting areolar tissue, constitutes the tunica vasculosa of Astley Cooper. Minute structure.—Seminal tubes.—The proper glandular sub- stance of the testicle is a soft but consistent mass of a reddish-yellow colour, which is divided into numerous small lobes of conical form, with the larger ends turned towards the surface of the testicle, and the smaller towards the mediastinum. The number of these lobes (lobuli testis) has been estimated at 250 by Berres, and at upwards of 400 by Krause. They differ in size according to their position, those which occupy the middle of the gland and reach its anterior border being longer and larger than the rest. They consist almost entirely of small convoluted tubes, named tubuli seminiferi, in the interior of which the seminal product is secreted. Each lobe contains one, two, three, or even more of these convoluted tubules, the coils of which, being only loosely held together, may be more or less successfully unravelled by careful dissection under water. Lauth estimates their mean number to be 840, and the average length of each two feet and a quarter. Their diameter, which is uniform throughout their whole course, is from a-^th to T-i^th of an inch. They present two kinds of convolutions, each tube having a fine and regular undulation, which gives a granular appearance to the whole mass, and this undulating tube being again thrown into complicated folds, which are compressed so as to be elongated in the direction of the lobule. The lobules are never quite distinct, for here and there tubules are always to be found passing from one to another; and it sometimes happens that lobules which are divided by a distinct plane of contact at one part, are intimately connected at another; so that the division of the mass into lobules varies greatly in its extent, and hence the different estimates of the number of the lobules by different anatomists. The walls of the tubuli seminiferi are composed of a basement membrane consisting of several layers of flattened cells (Mihalkovics). The walls of the tubes are sufficiently strong to bear the forcible injection of mercury, which has been commonly employed for their investigation and their display in preserved specimens. The mode in which the tubes commence appears to be twofold—viz., by free closed extremities, hid within the lobules, but more frequently by anastomosing arches or loops. After an exceedingly tortuous course, they at length, in approaching the corpus Highmori, become at first slightly flexuous and then nearly straight. The separate tubuli of each lobe, and then those of adjoining lobes, unite together into larger tubes, which enter the fibrous tissue of the mediastinum and, being- placed amongst the branches of the blood-vessels, form the straight tubes or vasa recta. Spermatic Cells.—The interior of the tubes is occupied by cellular contents which, in the young subject, assume somewhat the appearance of an epithelial lining, but in the adult fill the whole tube with a con- fused mass of cells. In some instances, however, the cells are ranged in radii from the circumference to the centre, and a passage or lumen is left in the interior. Throughout the mass the cells are in various stages of advance towards the formation of the seminal product, some fully formed spermatic filaments being seen in the centre, and the cells of the circumference being least developed. It has been asserted by some observers that the spermatic cells are VOL. II. (; G