PACINIAN BODIES. 151 Fig. 104. neurilemma, with connective tissue and one or more fine blood-vessels ; it joins the corpuscle at or near one end, and conducts the nerve-fibre into it. The little body itself, examined under the microscope, is found to have a beautiful lamellar structure (fig. 103, a). It consists, in fact, of numerous concentric membranous capsules encasing each other like the coats of an onion, with a small quantity of pellucid fluid included between them. Surrounded by these capsules, and occupying a cylindrical cavity in the middle of the corpuscle, is the core, formed of transparent and homogeneous soft substance, in the midst of which the prolongation of the nerve-fibre is contained. The number of capsules is various ; from forty to sixty may be counted in large corpuscles. The series immediately following the central or median cavity, and comprehending about half of the entire number, are closer together than the more exterior ones, seeming to form a system by themselves, which gives rise to a white streak often distinguishable by the eye along the middle of the corpuscles when seen on a dark ground. Out- side of all, the corpuscle has a coating of ordinary connective tissue. The capsules, at least the more superficial ones, consist each of a thin lamella of an almost homogeneous or faintly striated appearance, with a reticulum of exquisitely fine fibres, probably of an elastic nature, on the outer surface. On the inner surface of each lamella a number of clear oval nuclei are to be seen, and treatment with nitrate of silver shows these to belong to a delicate layer of flattened epithelioid cells (fig. 104), lining each successive capsule (Hoyer). It is thus seen that in intimate structure the cap- sules correspond very closely to the lamellse of which the neurilemma of the nerve, before described, is com- posed. The nerve fibre, the disposition of which must now be noticed, is conducted along the centre of the stalk, enters the corpuscle, and passes straight into the central cavity, at the further end of which it termi- nates. The neurilemma surrounding the nerve-fibre in the peduncle accompanies it also in its passage through the series of capsules, gradually decreasing in thickness as it proceeds, and ceasing alto- gether when the nerve has reached the central cavity. According to Pacini, the neurilemma forms a series of concentric cylindrical layers, which successively become continuous with, or rather expand into the Fig. 104.—Pacinian Corpuscle from Mesentery op Cat ; stained with Nitrate of Silver. Magnified. The epithelioid cells of the outermost capsule are shown, and their continuity, at the peduncle, with those of the cor- responding layer of the neurilemma (from a drawing by Mr. Gr. C. Henderson).