THE THYMUS GLAND. 29$ other along the middle line, and are nearly symmetrical in form, thoug'li generally unequal in size, sometimes the left, and at other times the right lobe being the larger of the two. An intermediate lode often exists between the two lateral ones, and occasionally the whole body forms a single mass. Each lateral lobe is of an elongated triangular form. The apex usually mounts up into the neck, reaching as high as to the lower border of the thyroid body. The base rests on the upper part of the pericardium, to which it is connected by areolar tissue. The anterior surface, slightly convex, is covered by the first and the upper part of the second piece of the sternum, reaching, in the infant at birth, as low down as the level of the fourth costal cartilage. It is attached to the sternum by loose areolar tissue, but opposite the upper part of that bone is separated from it by the origins of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid, which muscles also cover it in the neck. The posterior surface, somewhat concave, rests, in the thorax, upon part of the pericardium, upon the front of the aortic arch and the large arteries arising from it, and also on the left innominate vein. In the neck it lies upon the front and corresponding side of the trachea. Its external border is in contact with the corre- sponding layer of the mediastinal pleura, near the internal mammary artery, and higher up (in the neck), with the sheath of the carotid artery. The internal border is in close contact with that of the opposite lobe. The dimensions of the thymus vary according to its stage of develop- ment. At birth it measures rather more than twTo inches in length, an inch and a half in width at its lower part, and about three or four lines in thickness. Its weight at that period is about half an ounce. Its specific gravity, which is at first about 1*050, diminishes as the gland continues to waste. Structure.—The lateral halves or lobes of the thymus gland are each invested by a capsule of thin areolar tissue, which sends parti- tions into the gland between the several lobules : on its outer surface the capsule is covered by a layer of flattened epithelioid cells. Each lobe consists of numerous polyhedral lobules, the most of them from two to five lines in diameter, connected by a more delicate inter- vening areolar tissue. These primary lobules are each made up of a number of small nodules or follicles (fig. 200, b, b), as they have been termed. These are, in many respects, similar in structure to ordinary lymphoid follicles, such as those of the tonsils or of Peyer's patches in the intestine : consisting, like these, of retiform tissue, the meshes of which are filled with lymph corpuscles ; at the surface of each follicle the retiform tissue is somewhat closer, so as to form a species of capsule for it. In some animals these capsules completely enclose the follicles, but in others, including man, several follicles may be united towards the centre of the lobule, which is then commonly of softer consistence than the other parts, and apt to break down if not perfectly fresh, so as to give the deceptive appearance of a central cavity (see fig. 200). Scattered here and there in the retiform tissue are peculiar corpuscles, composed of a substance which strongly refracts the light, and readily becomes stained by carmine. They present an ap- pearance of concentric striation, and are known as the concentric cor- puscles of Hassall, They vary in size from that of a blood-corpuscle to three times that diameter, or more; the larger often contain smaller ones in their interior.