704 THE FCETAL MEMBRANES. a peripheral extension of the pleuro-peritoneal cavity. The embryo thus comes to sink down as it were (the cephalic part before the rest) into the hollow produced by the rising of the amniotic folds round it. The backward folds deepening more and more, gradually converge on the dorsum of the embryo, and at last come together (fig. 512, 3), the margins of the reflection narrowing rapidly and being finally completely obliterated or lost by their convergence and by the subsequent dissociation of the inner from the outer divisions of the folds (fig. 512, 4). The sepa- rated inner division now becomes the entire closed sac of the amnion, connected only with the rest of the parts at the umbilical constriction where it is continuous with the integument of the embryo. The outer dissociated division is the false amnion of Pander and Yon Baer, passing out into the remaining peripheral part of the blastoderm, and con- stituting for a time an external covering of the ovum, which in birds and reptiles appears afterwards to be lost by thinning or absorption ; but which in mammals may be connected with the development of the permanent chorion in a manner to be referred to hereafter. Fig. 514.—Human Embryo of between the Third and Fourth Week, Mag- nified about five Diameters (frora Kolliker after Allen Thomson). a, amnion adherent (unusually) to the interior of the chorion in the dorsal region ; i, umbilical vesicle or yolk-sac with a wide communication with the intestine ; c, lower jaw; d, superior maxillary process ; e, second postoral plate, and behind it other two, with the pharyngeal clefts behind each ; f, commencement of the anterior limb ; g} primitive auditory vesicle ; h, eye ; i, heart. In the human ovum, as in most mammals, the amnion is formed at a very early period. The membrane lies at first so close to the embryo that it is with difficulty distinguished from the surface of the body : but after the dorsal closure is completed, it is soon separated by the fluid which accumulates in its cavity. The muscular contractility possessed by the amnion doubtless resides in its outer layer derived from the somatopleure. The contractions appear to be rhythmic, as they may be seen in the opened incubated egg of the fowl, or even in the entire egg, by means of a bright light in a dark chamber, from the sixth or seventh day of incubation ; and it is probable that they are of a similar nature in mammals. The amniotic fluid contains about 1 per cent, of solid matter, consisting chiefly of albumen, but also traces of urea, which is probably derived from the urinary secretion of the foetus. It would appear that there is a difference in the structure of the reflected or false amnion in birds and in mammals. In the former it is composed of the same two layers as the amnion itself, but in mammals the development of the mesoblast appears to cease at the place of reflection of the true into the fals© amnion, so that the latter consists only of the corneous layer or epiblast. The Allantois : Urinary Vesicle.—Although this membrane becomes in the more advanced stage of development widely distributed Fig. 514.