CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF THE TEXTURES. forms the tissue, and is in a state of union with it, more intimate than could •well be ascribed to the mere inclusion of a fluid in the pores of another substance. Be this as it may, it is clear that the tissues, even in their inmost substance, are permeable to fluids, and this property is indeed necessary, not only to maintain their due softness, pliancy, elasticity, and other mechanical qualities, but also to allow matters to be conveyed into and out of their substance in the process of nutrition. CHEMICAL COMPOSITION. Ultimate Constituents.—The human body is capable of being resolved by ultimate analysis into chemical elements, or simple consti- tuents, not differing in nature from those which compose mineral substances. Of the chemical elements known to exist in nature, the following have been discovered in the human body, though it must be remarked, that some of them occur only in exceedingly minute quan- tity, if indeed they be constant : oxygen, hydrogen, carbon, nitrogen, phosphorus, sulphur, chlorine, fluorine, potassium, sodium, calcium, magnesium, iron, silicon, manganese, aluminium, copper. Proximate Constituents.—The ultimate elements do not directly form the textures or fluids of the body ; they first combine to form certain compounds, and these appear as the more immediate consti- tuents of the animal substance; at least the animal tissue or fluid- yields these compounds, and they in their turn are decomposed into the ultimate elements. Of the immediate constituents some are found also in the mineral kingdom, as for example, water, chloride of sodium or common salt, and carbonate of lime ; others, such as albumin, fibrin, and fat, are peculiar to organic bodies, and are accordingly named the proximate organic principles. The animal proximate principles have the following leading cha- racters. They all contain carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen, and the greater number also nitrogen ; they are all decomposed by a red heat; and, excepting the fatty and acid principles, they are, for the most part, extremely prone to putrefaction, or spontaneous decomposition, at least, when in a moist state ; the chief products to which their putrefaction gives rise being water, carbonic acid, ammonia, and sulphuretted, phos- phuretted, and carburetted hydrogen gases. The immediate compounds obtained from the solids and fluids of the human body are the following. I. Azoiised Substances, or such as contain nitrogen, viz., albumin, blood-fibrin, myosin, syntonin, casein, globulin, gelatin, chondrin, salivin, kreatin, kreatinin, pepsin, mucin, homy matter or keratin, pig- ment, hamioglobin, urea, uric acid, hippuric acid, inosinic acid, sarkin (or hypoxanthin), leucin, tyrosin, protagon and its components lecithin and neurin, azotised biliary compounds. II. Substances destitute of Nitrogen, viz., fatty matters, glycogen (or animal starch), grape sugar, sugar of milk, inosit, lactic, formic, and oxalic acids, certain principles of the bile. Some of the substances now enumerated require no further notice in a work devoted to anatomy. Of the rest, the greater number will be explained, as far as may be necessary for our purpose, in treating of the particular solids or fluids in which they are chiefly found. It has been shown by Graham * that chemical substances may be distinguished * Liquid Diffusion applied to Analysis,—Phil. Trans., 1861. t 2