€88 THE OVUM AND BLASTODERM. to the same conclusion as those of Balfour, and if confirmed would go far to prove the occurrence of a secondary or prolonged segmentation in the subger- minal yolk, to which allusion was previously made. It is right, however, to state that on the other side there is the weighty autho- rity of Kolliker, who, in association with the younger Virchow, has recently sought in vain for the evidence of such migration as has been described by the observers previously referred to, and attributes the formation of the meso- blast entirely to the proliferation of cells connected originally with the lower surface of the epiblast. Difference in Animals.—The foregoing description applies to the symmetrical position and central mode of development of the blastoderm which belong to the ova of reptiles, birds and mammals ; but it is right to state that in the lower vertebrata, or in amphibia and in osseous and cartilaginous fishes, there are several remarkable differences. Among these may be particularly noticed the non-symmetrical development of the blastoderm, and the excentric position of the commencement of the embryo ; the involution of the epiblast at the aper- ture of the blastoderm termed ' anus' by Rusconi, or blastopore, at which the cells of the epiblast become continuous with the larger deeper cells from which the mesoblast and hypoblast originate. (See F. M. Balfour, " On the Develop- ment of the Elasmobranch Fishes," and " Comparison of the Development of Vertebrates," in the Quart. Journ. of Microscop. Science for Oct. 1874, and July, 1875 ; E. Ray Lankester, " On the Primitive Cell Layers of the Embryo," &c., in the Ann. and Mag. of Nat. Hist, for 1871. The Blastoderm of Mammals.—A variety of observations have shown that the blastoderm.of mammals consists, when fully formed, essentially of the same kinds of elements arranged in three layers, as previously described in birds; but the mode of formation of these layers has not yet been fully investigated. By the observations of Bischoff, Coste, and Reichert, it was ascertamed that as the result of the first segmentation the yolk became invested with a complete superficial covering of distinct nucleated cells, which may be looked upon as corresponding to the upper or outer layer, or epiblast. Within this there remains for a time a thick plate or rounded mass at one side of opaque spherules, which seemed to be segment spherules not yet converted into cells, and the interior of the yolk was elsewhere filled with a granular fluid. Some time later, or about the fifth day in the rabbit's ovum, a thickened spot, the germinal area of Bischoff, or tache embryonnaire of Coste, gradually made its appearance in the place where the primitive trace of the embryo is afterwards formed. This consisted in a thickening of the layer already formed, and of an accumulation of a layer of new cells below it, which, gradually extending itself over the surface of the yolk, gives a second covering of cells to the whole. In a carefully conducted series of recent observations, Hensen finds (Zeitsch. fur Anat. u. Entwick. Leipz. Nov. 1875) that in the rabbit's ovum, at the time when the germinal disc is still round (5 days 4 hours) the epiblast, with its central thickening, forms a complete vesicular covering of the yolk, but that the hypoblast, lying below the disc, does not extend over more than a third of the circumference. The cells of the middle layer are at this time restricted to the hinder part of the germ disc, in which place the primitive trace of the embryo first appears. Kolliker also, in the same animal (Verhandl. d. Physik. Med. Oesellsch. z. Wiirzburg, Nov., 1875) describes the inner layer (hypoblast) as spreading rapidly over the inner surface of the outer layer or epiblast, so as at last to give a complete double covering to the yolk. In sections of a vesicular blastoderm of the cat, prepared by Mr. Schafer, but not yet described, two layers may, as he has pointed out to me, be seen, the outer of which (epiblast) lies immediately within the primitive chorion and is co- extensive with it, whilst the inner layer (hypoblast), although also complete, forms a smaller ring than the outer, and is in contact with the latter at one place only. Both layers, although elsewhere formed of a single stratum of cells, are here slightly thickened, but especially the outer (as if a mesoblast were about to be developed from it) : the hypoblast at this place appears bounded superficially by a delicate cuticular film.