283 LIGAMENT OF THE LARYNX. The cuneiform cartilages, or cartilages of Wrisberg, are two very small, soft, yellowish cartilaginous bodies, placed, one on each side, in the fold of the mucous membrane which extends from the summit of the arytenoid cartilage to the epiglottis. They have a conical form, with the base directed upwards. They occasion small elevations of the mu- cous membrane, a little in advance of the cartilages of Santorini, with which, however, they are not directly connected. The epiglottis (fig. 188, /; fig. 189, e) is a median lamella of yellow cartilage, shaped somewhat like an ovate or obcordate leaf, and covered by mucous membrane. It is placed in front of the superior opening of the larynx, projecting, in the ordinary condition, upwards im- mediately behind the base of the tongue ; but during the act of swallowing it is carried downwards and backwards over the entrance into the larynx, which it covers and protects. The cartilage of the epiglottis is broad and rounded at its upper free margin, but inferiorly it becomes pointed, and is prolonged by means of a long, narrow, fibrous band (the thyroepiglottic ligament) to the deep angular depression between the alas of the thyroid cartilage, to which it is attached, behind and below the median notch. Its lateral borders, which are convex and turned backwards, are only partly free, the lower parts being enveloped in the aryteno-epiglottic folds of mucous mem- brane. The anterior or lingual surface is free only in its upper part, where it is covered by mucous membrane. Lower down, the membrane is reflected from it forwards to the base of the tongue, forming three folds or frsenula, the middle and lateral glosso-epiglottidean folds. This surface is also connected below with the posterior surface of the os hyoides by means of a median elastic structure named the hyo-epiglottic ligament. The posterior or laryngeal surface, which is free in the whole of its extent, is concavo-convex from above downwards, but concave from side to side : the convexity projecting backwards into the larynx is named the tubercle or cushion. The epiglottis is closely covered by mucous membrane, on removing which, the yellow cartilaginous lamella is seen to be pierced by numerous little pits and perforations, in which are lodged small glands which open on the surface of the mucous membrane. Structure of the cartilages of the larynx.—The epiglottis, the cornicula laryngis and the cuneiform cartilages, are composed of elastic or yellow fibro-cartilage (p. 78), and have little tendency to ossify. The structure of all the other cartilages of the larynx resembles generally that of the costal cartilages (p. 75), like which, they are very prone to ossification as life advances. LIGAMENTS AND JOINTS OP THE LARYNX. The larynx is connected with the hyoid bone by a broad membrane ending at the sides in two round lateral ligaments. The thyro-hyoid membrane or middle thyro-hyoid ligament, is a broad, fibrous, and somewhat elastic membrane, which passes up from the whole length of the superior border of the thyroid cartilage to the hyoid bone, where it is attached to the posterior and upper margin of the obliquely inclined inferior surface. Owing to this arrangement, the top of the larynx, when drawn upwards, is permitted to slip within the circumference of the hyoid bone, between which and the upper part of the thyroid carti-