225 REGENERATION OF HAIR. to the liair (fig-. 152, d), is soon distinguished by its translucency from the more opaque outer part that fills up the rest of the cavity. The young hair continuing to grow, at last perforates the cuticle (fig. 152, C. g), either directly or after first slanting up for some way between the mucous and horny strata : it is often bent like a whip, and then the doubled part protrudes. The first hairs produced constitute the lanugo; their eruption takes place about the fifth month of intra-uterine life, but part of them are shed before birth, and are found floating in the liquor amnii. Kolliker affirms that the infantile hairs are entirely shed and renewed within a few months after birth ; those of the general surface first, and afterwards the hairs of the eyelashes and head, which he finds in process of change in infants about a year old. Regeneration.—The new hairs are generated in the follicles of the old (figs. 153 and 151). An increased growth of cells takes place in the soft hair-knob, and in Fig. 153. Fig. 154. Fig. 153.—Two Eyelashes of an Infant, pulled out from their Follicles, MAGNIFIED 20 DlAMETERS (Kolliker). A, the new cell-growth forming a cone, m, in the interior (as in fig. 152, a). In B, the cone has separated into the new hair, /, g, and its inner root-sheath, b ; a, outer, and 6, inner root-sheath of new hair; c, pit for papilla ; d and e, the knob and stem of old hair ; /, knob ; g, stem ; and h, the point of new hair; i, sebaceous glands ; Jc, Tc, sweat- glands here opening into month of hair-follicle. Fig. 154.—Eyelash of an Infant, with Young Hair come forth, magnified 20 Diameters (Kolliker). I, epidermis continuous with outer root-sheath ; other letters as in preceding figures, the adjoining part of the root-sheath (the outer layer) : the growing mass pushes up the hair knob, and detaches it from its generative papilla. The newly-formed mass of ceUs occupying the lower part of the follicle, and resting on the papilla, is gradually converted into a new hair with its root-sheath, just as in the primitive process of formation in the embryo ; and as the new hair lengthens and emerges from the follicle, the old one, separated from its matrix by the interposition of the vol. ir. q