506 MEDULLA OBLONGATA. fissure. They consist of white fibres, continuous with those of the posterior median columns of the cord, and contain much grey matter. They increase in size as they ascend until they reach the point where the medulla opens out to form the floor of the fourth ventricle ; and there, diverging from one another, they appear to taper and become closely applied to the restiform bodies. Their fibres quit these bodies, however, and pass up to the cerebrum. The floor of the fourth ventricle (figs. 355 and 358), or space between the medulla and cerebellum, is formed by that portion of the back of the medulla oblongata which is situated above the divergence of the posterior pyramids. Upon it, the central grey matter of the medulla oblongata, is, as it were, opened out to view. It is marked by a median furrow, ending inferiorly in the calamus scriptorius (fig. 355, v), and at its lower end is a tubular recess, passing down the centre of the medulla for a few lines. This, which has been sometimes named the ventricle of Arcmtius, is the upper expanded portion of the central canal of the spinal cord. In the upper part of the floor of the fourth ventricle are two longi- tudinal eminences, one on each side of the middle furrow, greyish below, but appearing white higher up. These are formed by two bundles of white fibres, mixed with 'much grey matter, the fasciculi teretes (fig. 358, 1). Surmounting the free inner margin of the restiform body and posterior pyramid is a thin lamina, the ligula, occupying the angle between the cerebellum and the restiform body, and stretching towards its fellow of the opposite side. It derives a certain interest from indicating how the cylinder, which is closed in the spinal cord, might be completed in this region of the medulla oblongata by the union of the opposite margins. Transverse fibres.—Crossing the grey matter in the floor of the fourth ventricle several transverse white lines, or strice medidlarcs, are usually observed, passing outwards from the median fissure, and round the sides of the restiform bodies (figs. 355 and 358, 2). Some of these white striae form part of the roots of the auditory nerves, a few run slantingly upwards and outwards on the floor of the ventricle, whilst others again embrace the corresponding half of the medulla oblongata. These transverse lines are sometimes wanting, in which case the white fibres on which they depend probably exist at some depth below the surface. A set of superficial white fibres on the fore part and sides of the medulla oblongata, crossing over it below the olivary bodies, was described b}~ Santorini and Rolando as fibrce, vel processus arciformes. They belong to a system of white fibres which pass transversely or horizontally outwards, and are probably continuous with the septal fibres about to be noticed. Sometimes the greater part of the pyramidal and olivary bodies is covered by a thin stratum of these transverse fibres, which appear to issue from the anterior median fissure ; but, most commonly, these superficial fibres are found only at the lower ex- tremity of the olive, as the arciform fibres already mentioned. Besides the superficial transverse fibres now referred to, the medulla oblongata presents other horizontal fibres in its interior, some of them disposed in a mesial raphe or septum (fig. 357, R), and numerous others proceeding from that septum transversely outwards. Of these last, the majority, entering the olivary bodies, form the whole of their