THE TEETH. 312 present, when examined with a high magnifying power, a tesselated appearance (fig. 213, b). 213.—Enamel Fibres (from Kolliker). 350 Diameters. A, fragments and single fibres of the enamel, isolated by the action of hydrochloric acid. B, surface of a small fragment of enamel, showing the hexagonal ends of the fibres. When submitted to the action of dilute acids, the enamel is almost entirely dissolved, and leaves scarcely any discernible traces of animal matter. By the action of an acid, the enamel of newly formed or still growing teeth may be broken up, and its structural elements more easily distinguished. It is further found, on treatment with acid, that a very thin mem- brane called by Kolliker " cuticle of the enamel,"—and by Busk and Huxley "NasmytNs membrane" entirely covers the enamel of unworn teeth upon its outer surface (fig. 212, a). This membrane forms a pro- tective covering to the enamel. It is of an epithelial and horny nature, and obstinately withstands prolonged boiling with water as well as the action of acids and other re-agents. The crusta petrosa or cement (fig. 201, 3) is the third sub- stance which enters into the formation of the teeth. This is a layer of true bone, slightly modified in structure, and investing that part of the dentine which is not protected by the enamel. It covers the whole fang, towards the lower end of which it becomes gradually thicker,, and is specially developed at the apex, and along the grooves of the- compound fangs. As life advances, the cement generally grows thicker,, especially near the point of the fang, where it sometimes blocks up the orifice leading to the pulp-cavity. The crusta petrosa is lamellar in structure, and contains lacunae and canaliculi resembling those of bone but larger and more irregular (fig.. 208, 1). In the deeper layers of the cement the fine canaliculi sometimes anastomose with some of the terminal tubules of the subjacent dentine,, as already stated. Where the cement is very thick it may contain vascu- lar canals, analogous to the Haversian canals of bone. On the deciduous teeth the cement is thinner, and contains fewer cells. It has been shown by Sharpey that perforating fibres, similar to those of ordinary Fig. 213. I