AIE-CELLS OF THE LUNGS. 275 enters a distinct pulmonary lobule, within which it undergoes still farther division, and at last ends in the small recesses named air-cells, alveoli or pulmonary vesicles (b). Within the lungs the air-tubes are not flattened behind like the bronchi and trachea, but form completely cylindrical tubes. Hence, although they contain the same elements as the larger air-passages, reduced gradually to a state of greater and greater tenuity, they possess certain peculiarities of structure. Thus, the cartilages no longer appear as imperfect rings running only upon the front and lateral surfaces of the air-tube, but are disposed over all sides of the tube in the form of irregularly shaped plates and incomplete rings of various sizes. These are most developed at the points of division of the bronchia, where they form a sharp concave ridge projecting inwards into the tube. The}?" may be traced, becoming rarer and rarer and more reduced in size, as far as bronchia only one-half a line in diameter, beyond which the tubes are entirely membranous. The fibrous coat extends to the smallest tubes, becoming thinner by degrees and degenerating into areolar tissue. The mucous membrane, which extends throughout the whole system of air passages, is also thinner than in the trachea and bronchus, but it retains its ciliated columnar epithelium (fig. 182, d). The longitudinal bundles of elastic fibres (fig. 182, c, in transverse section) are very distinct in both the large and small bronchia, and may be followed by dissection as far as the tube can be laid open, and by the microscope into the smallest tubes. The mus- cular fibres, which in the trachea and bronchi are confined to the back Fig. 183.—Portion of the Fig. 183. Outer Surface of the Cow's Lung (from Kolliker after Harting). Magnified 30 Diameters. a, pulmonary vesicles filled artificially with wax ; b, the margins of the smallest lobules. part of the tube, sur- round the bronchial tubes with a continuous layer of annular fibres, lying inside the carti- laginous plates (fig. 182, b) ; they are found, however, beyond the place where the car- tilages cease to exist, and appear as irregular annular fasciculi even in the smallest tubes. The air-cells are grouped around the terminations of each lobular bronchial tube, and, in the natural state, are always filled with air. They are readily seen on the surface and in a section of a lung, which has been inflated with air and dried; also upon portions of foetal or adult lung injected with mercury or wax (fig. 183, a, a). In the lungs of some animals, as of the lion, cat, and dog, they are very large, and are distinctly visible on the surface of the organ. In the adult human lung their most common diameter is about x^o^h of an inch,