568 ORIGIN OF NERVES. times adherent. Its fibres pass backwards and a little outwards, to reach the nucleus common to this and the facial nerve, a column of large multipolar nerve-cells, beneath the eminentia teres in the middle of the floor of the fourth ventricle. In the inner part of this nucleus most of the fibres end. The facial nerve (portio dura of the seventh pair) appears at the lower border of the pons Varolii in a line with the attachment of the fifth nerves. It emerges from the medulla oblongata, in the outer part of the depression between the olivary body and the diverging restiform body (inferior peduncle of cerebellum), and is often firmly adherent, as a flattened band, to the lower edge and even for a short distance to the upper surface of the pons. On its outer side is the auditory nerve. A separate fasciculus of the facial nerve {intermediate part) is sometimes attached to both auditory and facial nerves. The fibres pass backwards and inwards through the medulla towards the floor of the fourth ventricle, where many end in the outer part of the common nucleus, just described as lying beneath the eminentia teres in the middle of the fourth ventricle. A considerable number of fibres pass above the nucleus and turn round it, just beneath the surface of the ventricular floor, to descend as a compact bundle on the inner side of the common nucleus ; lower down these fibres diverge outwards and forwards to the superior olivary body and adjacent lower part of the nucleus of the motor root of the fifth nerve (fig. 359). The auditory nerve (portio mollis of the seventh pair) appears at the lower edge of the pons on the outer side of and close to the facial nerve. It is also united to the lower edge of the pons opposite the inner side or middle of the restiform body from which it emerges. A large and conspicuous portion of the nerve curves outwards round the restiform body. The fibres of the nerve divide into two corresponding bundles, one the posterior, winds round the restiform body, with which it is connected by some fibres of origin, to reach the inner auditory nucleus, a large col- lection of nerve cells, in the outer side of the lower part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The other, or anterior division, passes, a little higher up, through the substance of the restiform body to end chiefly in the outer auditory nucleus, a network of cells and fibres, to the outer side of the inner nucleus and of this part of the nerve. Some of its fibres go to the inner nucleus, others pass with the restiform body to the cerebellum. Both portions contain much grey matter, which on the posterior part forms a pyriform swelling. The trunk is also joined by some fibres from the stria? medullares. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve arises from the side of the medulla by a series of five or six roots attached in a vertical line to the surface of the restiform body, the highest being close to the auditory nerve. The fibres pass backwards and inwards, through the medulla, to reach a column of nerve-cells placed deeply beneath the lower and outer part of the floor of the fourth ventricle, between the highest part of the vagal nucleus and the lower part of the internal auditory nucleus. The pneumogastric or vagus nerve arises from the side of the medulla by a series of twelve or more roots, which are attached to the restiform body in a vertical line below those of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The fibres pass backwards to a large group of nerve cells be- neath the lowest part of the floor of the fourth ventricle, where they