100 BONE. Fig. 59. «5r\ -—' In this view we see, at one part, the dark and nearly circular sections of the newly-formed osseous areola} ; at another, sections of the rows of cartilage-cells with the clear matrix between and around them, and into this the dark ossification is advancing. It may frequently be observed, that here also, as in intramembranous ossification, the deposition of calcareous matter is preceded by the formation of an obscurely fibrous structure, extending between the rows of cells. On using a higher power, as in fig. 59, it will be seen that the cells forming the groups are placed with then* long diameter transversely, as if they had been flattened and piled upon one another ; but in the immediate vicinity of the bone they become greatly enlarged and more rounded. As to the substance composing them, in some it is pellucid, strongly refract- ing the light, and nearly filling the capsule; in others faintly granidar and light like ground glass, and has a well-defined outline, and in these there is a very distinct nucleus, varying much in size in different cells, but always most regularly circular, and inclosing one or more nucleoli; lastly, a good many cells may be seen, especially in the neighbourhood of the advancing blood-vessels, in which the contained mass or cell-body does not nearly fill the capsule, and then it is usually coarsely granular, with an uneven and, in some, a jagged outline. It thus appears that the bony tissue, as it advances into the cartilage, has at first a sort of alveolar structure, made up of fusiform areola or short tubular cavities, with thin parietes, which are formed by calcification of the matrix and partial calcification of the capsules of the cartilage-cells. But this condi- tion, which differs from that of perfect bone, is only transitory, and at a short distance below the ossifying surface we see a change taking place in the newly- formed tissue ; the structure becomes more open, the original cartilage-cells disappear from its interstices, and the medullary spaces, with their lamellated parietes, as in the permanent cancellated tissue, begin to be formed. This, which is the next step of the process, takes place in the following manner. The primary areola of the bone above described open into one another both laterally and longitudinally by absorption of their intermediate walls, and by their confluence give rise to the larger or secondary cavities, the medullary spaces of H. Miiller, which succeed them lower down. This is shown in a longi- tudinal section in fig. 60, and in transverse section in fig. 61, A, which represents a thin section made almost immediately below the Fig. 59.—Small Portion of a Section similar to that in Fig. 57, more highly magni- fied (about 140 diameters). a, b, two of the new-formed osseous tubes or areolae, with a few cartilage-cells and granular corpuscles lying in them; c, c, cartilage-cells near the ossifying surface, exhibiting the appearance described in the text.