THE EYE. GIO fibrils of the nerves. A direct connection of these inner processes with the outwardly extending branches of the large nerve-cells of the gan- glionic layer has never been completely substantiated; but it is con- sidered probable that some of them may be so connected, while others may pass directly to the nerve-layer and there become continued into a nerve-fibre. The outer prolongation or process of the bipolar cell is on the other hand thicker than the inner one, and, moreover, after a longer or shorter course, divides into branches. This division commonly occurs just beyond the limit of the inner nuclear layer, immediately within the succeeding (outer molecular) layer ; frequently it is into two, which pass off almost at a right angle. The further destination of these branches is unknown, but they are believed to break up into exquisitely fine fibrils, forming a plexus in this situation. The outer process differs further from the inner in not exhibiting varicosities; occasionally it has a finely granular appearance. These cells have sometimes, but rarely, been observed to possess more than two such processes (Ritter, Hulke). The relative length of the inner and outer process naturally differs according to the position of the individual cell in the nuclear layer; if the cell is near the inner molecular layer the outer process will have a longer course to reach the outer molecular layer, and, conversely, if the cell is near the latter; in almost all cases, however, the inner process is the longer of the two, extending, as before mentioned, for some distance into the contiguous molecular layer. At the macula lutea these processes or fibres of the inner nuclear layer have a markedly oblique direction, in other parts of the retina they run vertically towards the surfaces. The third kind of " inner granule " is entirely different from the other two. The cells, each of which has a distinct nucleus and nucle- olus, are exclusively collected at the innermost part of the inner nuclear layer, where in man they form an almost complete stratum (Vintschgau). They appear to be devoid of processes, but further investigations are re- quired as to their nature, as well as with regard to certain other cells {fourth variety) which are scattered here and there in the outer- mostpart of the layer, next to the outer molecular layer, and are distinguished from the ordinary " inner granules " by their rounded form and larger size, and also, according to W. Krause, in possessing only one process—an inner one—which he regards as a terminal nerve-fibre. 5. Outer molecular layer.—The outer molecular layer is much thinner than the inner, but otherwise presents, in vertical sections of hardened Fig. 421. Fig. 421.—Branched Cells with the Uniting Feltwork of Fibres prom the Outer Molecular Layer of the Horse's Retina (Sclrvvalbe). Highly Magnified,