382 THE LIVER. Lobes.—The right and left lobes are separated from each other on the under surface by the longitudinal fissure, and in front by the inter- lobular notch : on the convex surface of the liver there is no other indi- cation of a separation between them than the line of attachment of the broad ligament. The right lobe is much larger and thicker than the left, which constitutes only about one-fifth or one-sixth of the entire gland. The lobulus quadratus (anonymus) (fig. 273, 6) is situated be- tween the gall-bladder and the great longitudinal fissure, and in front of the portal or transverse fissure. It is somewhat oblong from before backwards. The lobulus Bpigelii(8, 9, 10), more prominent and less regular in shape than the quadrate lobe, lies behind the fissure for the portal vein,, and is bounded on the right and left by the fissures which contain the inferior vena cava and the remains of the ductus venosus (25, 19). The lobulus caudatus (11) is a sort of ridge which extends from the base of the Spigelian lobe to the under surface of the right lobe. This, in the natural position of the parts, passes forwards above the passage named foramen of Winslow, the Spigelian lobe itself being situated behind the small omentum, and projecting into the omental sac. Fissures.—The transverse or portal fissure (fig. 273, 12, 13) is the most important, because it is here that the great vessels and nerves enter, and the hepatic duct passes out. It lies transversely between the lobulus quadratus and lobulus Spigelii, and meets the longitudinal fissure nearly at right angles. At its two extremities, the right and left divisions of the hepatic artery and portal vein, together with the nerves and deep lymphatics, enter the organ, while the right and left hepatic ducts emerge. The longitudinal fissure, between the right and theleft lobes,is divided into two parts by its meeting with the transverse fissure. The anterior part (16), named the umbilical fissure, contains the umbilical vein in the foetus, and the remnant of that vein in the adult, which then con- stitutes the round ligament (17). It is situated between the square and the left lobe of the liver, the substance of which often forms a bridge {pons he^atis) across the fissure, so as to convert it partially or completely into a canal. The posterior part (18) is named the fissure of the ductus venosus (fossa ductus venosi) ; it is situated between the lobe of Spi- gelius and the left lobe and lodges the ductus venosus in the foetus, and in the adult a slender cord or ligament (19) into which that vein is converted. The fissure or fossa of the vena cava (25) is situated at the back part of the liver, between the Spigelian lobe and the right lobe, and is separated from the transverse fissure by the caudate lobe. It is prolonged upwards in an oblique direction to the posterior border of the liver, and may be said to join behind the Spigelian lobe with the fissure for the ductus venosus. It is at the bottom of this fossa that the blood leaves the liver by the hepatic veins, which end here in the vena cava. As in the case of the umbilical fissure, the substance of the liver in some cases unites around the vena cava, and encloses that vessel in a canal. The last remaining fissure, or rather fossa (fossa cystis felleoz), is that for the lodgment of the gall-Nadder (21); it is sometimes continued into a slight rounded notch on the anterior margin of the liver.