687 FORMATION OF BLASTODERMIC ELEMENTS. Axis of the Embryo, and middle layer is yet to be perceived. According- to most observers the original upper layer takes no share in these changes, but remains distinct and undergoes- the changes which belong to its own phases of development. With respect to the formation of the hypoblast it would appear to be no more, at least in its central part, than a differentiation or change of form occurring in cells existing from an earlier period in the primitive lower layer ; while its peripheral extension is probably owing to the conversion into its pavement-like cells of the subjacent elements of the white yolk. But as to the manner in which the mesoblast takes its origin, two distinct kinds of views exist among embry eu- logists According to one of these, following the suggestion of Remak, the cells of the mesoblast take their rise by a process of separation from the cells of the primitive lower layer by changes which are coincident with the conversion of the deepest set of those cells into the continuous lamina of hypoblast. And as a modification of this view may be mentioned that of His, according to which a middle layer (though not distinguished by him as such by name) arises in common from the formative cells of both upper and lower primitive layers through an axial plate, into which he holds they unite. According to the other view, which originated in the Vienna school, and has received much support from a number of observers emanating from it (Strieker, Waldeyer, Peremeschko, Klein, Oellacher and Goette), the cells which form the middle layer do not proceed either from the epiblast or hypoblast in the place which they ultimately occupy, but these cells arise as new products of cell forma- tion below the hypoblast, pass by migratory movement into the seat of the meso- blast, either through the hypoblast, or, as most hold, round its peripheral margin, and thence into the central part of the blastoderm, where all are agreed the cells of the mesoblast first come to be collected in any considerable quantity. Having once gained this position, or, in other words, a certain portion of mesoblast having been thus formed in the axial or central plate of the embryonic area, its cells speedily multiply and rapidly extend themselves, both by thickening in the centre and by spreading towards the periphery : other mesoblastic cells continue to be introduced from below at the margin of or through the hypoblast, so as to complete the formation of a middle layer by the eighteenth or twentieth hour. Fig. 498.—Section op a Blastoderm at right angles to the long NEAR ITS MIDDLE, AFTER EIGHT HOURS' Incubation (from Fos- ter and Balfour). A, epiblast formed of two layers of cells ; B, mesoblast thickened be- low the primitive groove; C, hypoblast formed of one layer of flattened cells ; pr, primitive groove ; mc, mesoblast cell; bd, formative cells in the so-called segmentation or sub- germinal cavity. (The line of separation between the epiblast and mesoblast below the primitive groove is too strongly marked in the figure.) Among the most recent observers, Klein and Balfour favour the migratory view : the latter, however, in a somewhat modified form, as he has arrived at the conclusion that the mesoblast takes its origin not directly from the epiblast or hypoblast, but in part from cells which are included (as the result of the first segmentation) in the blastoderm between those of its upper and lower layers, and partly from the larger spheres or formative cells which are the product of a later process of cell production occurring in the lower part of the germ, and which migrate from the place of their formation in the germ cavity, round the margin of the hypoblast into the space above it. The researches of Goette lead nearly VOL. II, Y Y Fig. 498.