THE MALE URETHRA. 438 farther on it diminishes like a funnel, until, at its anterior limit, it is smaller than at its commencement. It passes through the upper part of the prostate, above the middle lobe, so that there is more of the gland below it than above. Though enclosed in the firm glandular substance, it is more dilatable than any other part of the urethra; but imme- diately at the neck of the bladder, it is, as elsewhere stated, much more resistant. The transverse section of the urethra, as it lies in the prostate, is widened from side to side and curved with the convexity .upwards, the upper and under mucous surfaces being in contact. The lining membrane of the prostatic portion of the urethra is thrown into longitudinal folds, when not distended by fluid. Towards the neck of the bladder, a slight elevation on the lower surface passes back into the uvula vesicae. Somewhat in advance of this, and con- tinued from it along the floor of the passage, projects a narrow median ridge, about 8 or 9 lines in length, and l-£ line in its greatest height; this ridge gradually rises into a peak, and sinks down again at its anterior or lower end, and is formed by an elevation of the mucous membrane and subjacent tissue. This is the crest of the urethra (crista urethraa), which also receives the names of colliculus seminalis, caput gallinaginis and verumontanum. On each side of this ridge the surface is slightly depressed, so as to form a longitudinal groove, named the prostatic sinus, the floor of which is pierced by nu- merous foramina, the orifices of the prostatic ducts. Through these a viscid fluid oozes out on pressure ; the ducts of the middle lobe open behind the urethral crest, and some others open before it. The prostatic urethral mucous membrane is covered by a flat laminated epithelium. VesicuJa prostatica.—At the fore part of the most elevated portion of the crest, and exactly in the middle line, is a recess, upon or within the margins of which are placed the slit-like openings of the common seminal or ejaculatory ducts, one at each side. This median depression leads into the prostatic vesicle, which has been named also sinus pocu- laris, or utricle. It was first described by Morgagni, and has more lately attracted renewed attention, as corresponding with the structure which in the female is developed into the uterine passage. The vesicle forms a cul-de-sac running upwards or backwards, from three to five lines deep, and usually about one line wide at its entrance and for some distance up, but acquiring a width of at least two lines at its upper end or fundus. The narrow portion runs in the urethral crest, and its fundus appears to lie behind and beneath the middle lobe, and between the two lateral lobes of the prostate. Its parietes, which are dis- tinct, and of some thickness, are composed of fibrous tissue and mucous membrane, together with a few muscular fibres, and enclose on each side the ejaculatory duct; numerous small ramified and convoluted glands open on its inner surface. The epithelial lining is of the flat laminated kind. According to Kobelt and others, the caput gallinaginis contains some well-marked erectile and plain muscular tissue, and it has been supposed that this eminence, when distended with blood, may offer an obstacle to the passage of the semen backwards into the bladder. (E, H. Weber, Zusatze zur Lehre vom Baue und Verrichtungen der (resell- lechts-Organe, 1846 ; Huschke in Scemmerring's Anatomie, vol. v. ; Leuckart, " Vesicula Prostatica," in Cyclop, of Anat. & Phys.) 2. The membranous portion of the urethra comprises the part between the apex of the prostate and the bulb of the corpus spongio-