509 COURSE OF FIBRES. c, central canal and grey substance surrounding it ; /, anterior median fissure ; fp, posterior median fissure; r, and rn, restiform body and nucleus; p p, and ppn, posterior pyramid and its nucleus ; t r, tubercle of Rolando ; I, lateral column ; the anterior column of the cord is indicated by p in A, its remains by a c in B ; p in the other figures indicates the anterior pyramid ; in B, its decussation ; a in B points to the remains of the anterior cornu; in E to the superficial arciform fibres : 1, lateral column; o, olivary body; o', the commissural fibres proceeding from its interior ; R, raphe; C, 1, a, and Gl p, anterior and posterior roots of first cervical nerves ; viii' (E and F), inner audi- tory nucleus ; x, pneumogastric nerve ; x' ( x in F), its nucleus ; xi, spinal accessory nerve ; xi', its nucleus ; xir, hypoglossal nerve ; xii', its nucleus (which should extend nearer to the middle line than is represented in E). Course of fibres from the spinal cord upwards through the medulla oblongata.—Assuming, for convenience of description, the existence of three white columns of the cord, these are disposed as follows. 1. The posterior column, with the exception of the posterior median column (from which it is here distinguished as the processus cuneatus), enters into the formation of the restiform body, which ascends to the cerebellum. The posterior median column (posterior pyramid or fasci- culus gracilis) ascends to the cerebrum. 2. The lateral column ascends towards the base of the olivary body, and is disposed of in three ways ; (1,) some of its fibres from the sur- face and deep part join the restiform body and proceed with it to the cerebellum; (2,) a large number pass obliquely inwards, then come forwards between the anterior columns, and, crossing the median plane, appear as the fibres of decussation, and form the chief part of the opposite anterior pyramid; (3,) the remaining fibres pass up to the ■cerebrum, as the fasciculus teres, appearing on the back of the pons Varolii, in the upper part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. 3. The anterior columns (fig. 356, a, a') having reached the apex of the anterior pyramids, are thrust aside from their median position by the decussating fibres derived from the lateral columns, and are then distributed in three divisions. (1,) A very small division, ascends ob- liquely backwards beneath the olivary body, and joins the restiform body (Solly) (fig. 356, r). (2,) Another division passes directly upwards, and its fibres embrace the olivary nucleus, above which they are again collected together, and are joined by other fibres arising from the nucleus, so as to form the olivary fasciculus (fig. 356, <?'); this ascends through the pons and at the side of the cerebral peduncle under the name of the fillet (fig. 363, /), and reaches the corpora quadrigemina and the cerebral hemispheres. (3,) The remaining division of the anterior column ascends into the anterior pyramid, forming its outer part. The anterior pyramids therefore are composed of fibres from the lateral column and grey substance of the opposite side, and from the anterior column of the same side, and are continued up through the pons into the peduncles of the cerebrum. It is to be remembered, however, that the separation between these different tracts of white fibres cannot be clearly followed out through the whole structure of the medulla oblongata, but that they are more or less blended with one another. Grey matter of medulla oblongata followed upwards from the cord.—At the level of the first cervical nerve (fig. 357, A, 348, C, 1), the central grey substance is increased in size, the posterior horn on each side is thrown outwards, its neck is slender and its extremity (caput cornu) is