DEVELOPMENT OF THE CRANIUM. 733 back of which the vomer is formed as a bony splent covering ; while in the hinder lyre-shaped interval of the separated trabecular is placed the infundibulum in connection with the pituitary body. Fig. 532.—Basilar Part of the Primordial Cranium of a Human Foetus of three months seen from above (from Kolliker). a, upper half of the squama occipitis ; h, lower half of the same ; c, cartilaginous plate extending into it ; d, (in the foramen magnum) the exoccipital; e, basi-occipital; f, petrous, with the meatus auditorius interims ; g, dorsum sella?, with two nuclei belonging to the basi-sphenoid bone ; h, nuclei in the anterior clinoid processes ; i, great wing nearly entirely ossified ; 7c, small wings ; I, crista galli ; m, cribrethmoid; n, cartilaginous nose ; o, strip of cartilage between the sphenoid and the parietal ; p, •osseous plate between the lesser wings and the cribri- form plate. Fig. 532. From the side of the presphenoid cartilage the matrix of the orbito- sphenoids or lesser wings, containing the optic foramina, is developed ; and from the sides of the basi-sphenoid proceeds the matrix of the greater wings, which are also cartilaginous in their origin. In the periotic or cartilaginous rudiment of the temporal bone three centres of formation are distinguished by Huxley, viz., 1. Opisthotic, or that surrounding the fenestra rotunda and cochlea ; 2, prootk, or that which encloses the superior semicircular canal; and 3, epiotic, or that which surrounds the posterior semicircular canal and extends into the mastoid portion. They soon unite into one so as to form the petro- mastoid bone. Fig. 533.—Longitudinal Section through the Head of an Embryo of Four Weeks (from Kolliker). ^ v, anterior encephalic vesicle, cerebral portion ; interbrain ; m, midbrain ; a, cerebellum ; n, medulla oblongata; no and a, optic vesicle ; o, auditory depression ; t, centre of basi-cranial flexure ; t', lateral and hinder parts of tentorium ; <p, the fold of epiblast which forms the hypo- physis cerebri. The styloid process and the auditory ossicles are of cartilaginous origin. The squamo-zygomatic and tympanic are produced from membrane. The Cranial Flexures.—The earliest and the most important of the cranial flexures is that which takes place at the anterior extremity of the notochord and in the region of the mid-brain or middle encephalic vesicle. Here, as previously stated, the notochord extends into the substance of the basis of the cranium as it is prolonged forwards in the line of the vertebral bodies. At this place the medul- lary tube, and the substance forming the wall of the cranium especially, undergoes a sudden bending downwards and forwards, so as to cause the projection of the thickened cranial base in a marked manner upwards. This coincides with the place where the investinp- mass and the trabe-