201 SYNOVIAL SHEATHS. various points. These are very generally cleft into fringes at their free border, upon which their blood-vessels, which are numerous, are densely distributed. They often contain fat, and then, when of tolerable size, are sufficiently obvious ; but many of them are very small and inconspicuous. The fringed vascular folds of the synovial membrane were described, by Dr. Clopton Havers (1691), under the name of the mucilaginous glands, and he regarded them as an apparatus for secreting synovia. Subsequent anatomists, while admitting that, as so many extensions of the secreting membrane, these folds must contribute to increase the secretion, have, for the most part, denied them the special character of glands, considering them rather in the light of a mechanical provision for occupying spaces which would otherwise be left void in the motion of the joints, and this view is no doubt right as regards the larger, fat-inclosing folds. The smaller and less obvious fringes have, however, been found, on investigation by Rainey, to be most probably secreting organs as originally supposed by Havers. Rainey found that the processes in question exist in the bursal and vaginal synovial membranes as well as in those of joints, wherever, in short, synovia is secreted. He states that their blood-vessels have a peculiar convoluted arrangement, differing from that of the vessels of fat, and that the layer of cells covering them, " besides in- closing separately each packet of convoluted vessels, sends off from each tubular sheath secondary processes of various shapes, into which no blood-vessels enter."* 2. Vesicular or Bursal synovial membranes, Synovial bursce, Bursa mucosa.—In these the membrane has the form of a simple sac, interposed, so as to prevent friction, between two surfaces which move upon each other. The synovial sac in such cases is flattened and has its two opposite sides in apposition by their inner surface, which is free and lubricated with synovia, whilst the outer surface is attached by areolar tissue to the moving parts between which the sac is placed. In point of situation, the bursas may be either deep-seated or subcu- taneous. The former are for the most part placed between a muscle or its tendon and a bone or the exterior of a joint, less commonly between two muscles or tendons: certain of the bursas situated in the neigh- bourhood of joints not unfrequently open into them. The subcutaneous bursas lie immediately under the skin, and are found in various regions of the body interposed between the skin and some firm prominence beneath it. The large bursa situated over the patella is a well-known example of this class, but similar though smaller bursas are found also over the olecranon, the malleoli, the knuckles, and various other pro- minent parts. It must, however, be observed that, among these subcu- taneous bursas, some are reckoned which do not always present the characters of true synovial sacs, but look more like mere recesses in the subcutaneous areolar tissue, larger and more defined than the neigh- bouring areolas, but still not bounded by an evident synovial membrane. These may be looked on as examples of less developed structure, forming a transition between the areolar tissue and perfect synovial membrane. 3. Vaginal synovial membranes or Synovial sheaths.—These are intended to facilitate the motion of tendons as they glide in the fibrous sheaths which bind them down against the bones in various situations. The best-marked examples of such fibrous sheaths are to be seen in the hand and foot, and especially on the palmar aspect of the digital pha- langes, where they confine the long tendons of the flexor muscles. In such instances one part of the synovial membrane forms a lining to the osseo-fibrous tube in which the tendon runs, and another part affords a * Proceedings of the Royal Society, May 7th, 1846.