THE EYE. 022 According- to another and more generally received account the hyaloid mem- brane divides in front into two layers; an anterior, continued forwards as the zonule of Zinn, and a posterior, passing behind the lens ; the canal of Petit being- contained between them. Fig. 432.—View from before of the Canal of Petit inflated (from Sappey). The anterior parts of the sclerotic, choroid, iris and cornea having been removed, the remaining parts are viewed from before, and the canal of Petit has been inflated with air through an artificial opening. 1, front of the lens ; 2, vitreous body ; 3, outer border of the canal of Petit ; 4, outer part of the zonule of Zinn ; 5, appearance of sacculated dilatations of the canal of Petit. THE LENS. The lens (lens crystallina) is a transparent solid body, of a doubly convex shape, with the circumference rounded off. It is completely enclosed by a transparent elastic membrane known as the capsule of the lens. The anterior surface is in contact with the iris towards the pupil, receding from it slightly at the circumference ; the posterior Fig. 433. C B A Fig. 433.—Outlines illustrating the Course of the Fibres in the F(etal Crystalline Lens. { This diagram represents the typical or more simple state of the fibres in the full- grown fcetal or infantile condition ; the three dotted lines radiating at equal angles of 120° from the centre indicate the position of the intersecting planes, where they reach the surface ; the figures 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6, indicate certain fibres selected arbitrarily at equal distances in one-sixth part of the lens to show their course from the front to the back ; A, the anterior surface ; B, the posterior surface ; C, the lateral aspect : in these several figures, for the sake of clearness, a few lines only are introduced into the upper third, while in the lower two-thirds a greater number are marked ; but no_ attempt is made to repi'esent the number existing in nature ; the parts of the dotted line marked <•, are on a level with the centre of the several lenses. rests closely on the vitreous body. Around the circumference is the canal of Petit. Its convexity is not alike on the two surfaces, being greater behind ; moreover, the curvature is less at the centre than towards the margin. It measures about ^rd of an inch across, and |th from before backwards. In a fresh lens, divested of its capsule,