796 DEVELOPMENT OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. which they permanently occupy ; but upon the right side, as the fourth arch and the aortic root are obliterated posteriorly, the passage for blood from the aortic stem into the subclavian trunk is formed by the persistence of the forepart of the fourth right arch as far as the place where it meets the origin of the subclavian and vertebral arteries. The common carotid trunks, occupying the region which afterwards becomes the neck, but which is at first absent or extremely short, are formed by the anterior divisions of the aortic roots ; while the external carotid artery is due to the persistence of a channel in the continuation of each anterior aortic root, and the internal carotid artery arises from the persistence of the crossing third arch and the upper part of the posterior aortic root. Thus it falls out that, in man and a certain number of mammals, an innominate artery is formed on the right side by the union of the first part of the fourth right aortic arch leading into the right subclavian, and the right anterior aortic root which forms the common carotid ; while, on the left side, the carotid and subclavian vessels rise separately from the permanent aortic arch in consequence of the distance lying between them in the original foetal condition. It does not come within the scope of this chapter to describe the further steps of development of these vessels, nor to enter into an explanation of the manner in which abnormal position of the arch of the aorta and its branches, or of the pulmonary arteries, may be sup- posed to arise. For further information on this subject the reader is referred to the short account of the varieties given in the description of the blood-vessels in the first volume of this work, as well as to the third volume of Henle's Handbuch, and to the special works of Tiedemann and Richard Quain on the Arteries. DEVELOPMENT OP THE GEEAT VEINS. In the early embryo, before the development of the allantois, a right and a left omphalo-mesenteric vein bring back the blood from the walls of the um- bilical vesicle, and unite to form a short trunk, the meatus venosus, which is continued into the auricular extremity of the rudimentary heart. In the first commencement of the placental circulation, or in the fourth week of foetal life, two umbilical veins are seen coming from the placenta, and uniting to form a short trunk, which opens into the common omphalo-mesenteric vein. Very soon the right omphalo-mesenteric vein and right umbilical vein disappear. In connection with the common trunk of the umbilical and omphalo-mesenteric veins, two sets of vessels make their appearance in the young liver. Those furthest from the heart, named vence Jiepaticce advehentes, become the right and left divisions of the portal vein ; the others are the hepatic veins, vence hepaticce revehentes. The portion of vessel intervening between those two sets of veins forms the ductus venoms, and the part above the hepatic vein, being subse- quently joined by the ascending vena cava, forms the upper extremity of that vein. Into the remaining or left omphalo-mesenteric vein, open the mesen- teric and splenic veins. The part above the latter forms the trunk of the portal vein; and the portion of vessel between the union of this with the umbilical vein and the origin of the vena? hepaticse advehentes is so altered that the portal trunk opens into the commencement of the right vena advehens. At the time of the commencement of the placental circulation, two short trans- verse venous trunks, the ducts of Cuvier, open, one on each side, into the auricle of the heart. Each is formed by the union of a superior and an inferior vein, named the primitive jugular and the cardinal. The primitive jugular vein receives the blood from the cranial cavity by channels in front of the ear, which are subsequently obliterated : in the greater