DEVELOPMENT OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 728 the mesoblastic tissue beyond the commencement of the basis of the cranium, the mass of blastema which there surrounds the prolongation of Fig. 528.—Sections of the Vertebral Column of a Human Fcetus of eight weeks (from Kolliker). A, transverse longitudinal section of several vertebra?. 1, 1, chorda dorsal is, its remains thicker opposite the intervertebral discs ; 2, is placed on one of the bodies of the permanent vertebras ; 3, on one of the intervertebral discs. B, transverse horizontal section through a part of one dorsal vertebra. 1, remains of the chorda dorsalis in the middle of the body ; 2, arch of the vertebra ; 3, head of a_ rib. the notochord (the investing mass of Rathke) remaining one and undi- vided, or being devoid at least of the marked cleavage which occurs, in the strictly vertebral part. It is from this protovertebral plate on each side, whether in its entire primitive condition, or in its later and divided state, that the material is derived for the formation of the bodies and laminae of the vertebrae and the muscles which cover them. This is effected by the rapid increase of the mesoblast, and by the extension of that structure beyond the immediate confines of the vertebral laminae in an inward and downward direction, so as to throw a quantity of new mesoblastic material round the notochord, and inwards and upwards, so as to pass in between the primary medullary canal and the enveloping layer of epiblast. The muscular plate.—Shortly after this extension of the mesoblast in the two directions before mentioned, another separation, or rather differentiation, is observed to take plcice in the direction of its length, in the formation along the dorsal surface, and below the epiblast, of a series of circumscribed plates which form the foundation of the erector muscles of the spine, and the great dorsal muscles of the trunk. These constitute together the muscular, or rather the musculo-cutaneous plate, for it appears also to include the formative rudiment of the true skin. There is thus deposited the formative material for the vertebral bodies, the vertebral arches, and the muscles which immediately sur- round them, together with the general integument. Meanwhile the vertebral segmentation goes on progressing from before backwards, extending through the dorsal, lumbar, sacral and coccygeal vertebras, till the process is complete ; but this is accom- panied by other changes having reference to the separation of the nerve- roots and ganglia from their formative tissue, and the development-of the elements of the permanent vertebrae. In the outer portion of each protovertebral mass a transverse partition arises which separates the anterior part, as ganglion and nerve root, from Fig. 528. A