THE OVUM AND BLASTODERM. 684 blastoderm into the several organs and textures, the reader is referred to the various parts of the section on General Anatomy in which the development of the textures is treated of. Here it is enough to state, that in the upper layer or epiblast of the bird's ovum it is mainly by endogenous cell-multiplication that the increase of substance and extension of area is effected ; that in the lower layer, there is, accord- ing to Foster and Balfour, continued conversion of the cells of the white yolk into those of the hypoblast; and that in the mesoblast there is prolonged addition of cellular elements by new production of formative cells from below the germ ; and further, that in all the three layers it is mainly by internal differentiation of the various groups of the cells so formed that are produced the different kinds of formative bases, or initial deposits, whether cellular or extra-cellular, which are converted by farther changes into the rudiments of the several organs and textures of the animal body or its foetal appendages. But, while the formative processes consist essentially in minute histogenetic changes, they are also accompanied by changes of form which are more obvious. Thus the folding or inflection of certain of the layers of the blastoderm which brings about the enclosure of the visceral cavity of the body, or that which accompanies the formation of the amnion ; the progressive rising of the dorsal laminae and their final union, which attends the closure of the canal for the brain and spinal cord ; the increased accumulation of formative cells in one place leading to growth and increase, and their diminution or removal in others leading to atrophy ; the fusion of certain membranes or masses, of tissue uniting parts which were previously separate, and the fission or solution of continuity between other masses producing their separa- tion ; the excavation of one set of hollows and the obliteration of others, as in the case of blood-vessels and ducts,—are only a few examples of developmental changes, which are dependent, no doubt, more immediately on textural differentiation, but which indicate different forms and modes in which the constructive processes are brought about. The following is the general relation of the several germinal layers, to the production of different systems and organs of the embryo and its accessory parts in so far as yet discovered. 1. From the epiblast proceed the epidermis and its appendages, the great nervous centres, and the principal parts of the eye, ear, and nose; one layer of the amnion and yolk-sac, and in mammals, probably the outer layer of the permanent chorion. 2. From the hypoblast proceed the epithelial lining of the whole alimentary canal (excepting that of the mouth), and of the lungs, the- epithelial lining of the ducts of the glands connected with the ali- mentary canal, and also the deep layer of the yolk-sac and allantois. 3. From the mesoblast proceed in general all the parts of the skeleton, the muscles, fasciae, and tendons, the peripheral nerves, the true skin, the connective tissue, the vascular system and blood, the muscular and fibrous coats of the alimentary canal and all other visceral passages, the serous membranes, the parenchyma of many glands, and the genito-urinary system, together with the outer layer of the amnion, the vascular layers of the yolk-sac, the allantois and the chorion, and the foetal part of the placenta. The mesoblast does not, however, serve as the basis of these very