674 THE OVUM AND BLASTODERM. the greater part of the yolk is immediately engaged in the first or pre- liminary changes which precede the occurrence of embryonic develop- ment. The whole yolk-mass, or its greater part, is therefore directly formative or germinal, or, as it has been said, the ovum is holoblastic. But in birds and reptiles, in which the ova are comparatively large, the greater part of the yolk forming the yellow yolk substance, takes no immediate part in the first formative processes, and these are restricted to the small whitish flat disc, called the cicatricula in the fowl's egg, which is composed of fine granular protoplasm, occupies a determinate place on the surface of the larger yolk-mass, and, so long as the yolk remains in the ovary, has the germinal vesicle situated in its centre. Fig. 489.—Ovarian Ovum of a Mam- mifer. sg° a, The entire ovum, viewed under pressure ; the granular cells have been removed from the outer surface, the germinal vesicle is seen in the yolk sub- stance within ; b, the external coat or zona burst by increased pressure, the yolk protoplasm and the germinal vesicle having escaped from within ; c, germinal vesicle more freed from the yolk sub- stance. In all of them the macula is seen. To the part thus distinguish- able from the rest of the yolk the name of germ may be given ; and it has also been styled the primary or germinal on formative yolk, and the protoplasm or protoblast, while the remainder of the yolk-substance has been called the nutritive or food yollc, the secondary yolk or cleutoplasm. The oviparous ovum has therefore been named meroblastic, or partially germinal. It is not known whether in the mammals' ovum the whole yolk ought to be considered as purely germinal, or whether, as seems more pro- bable, some nutritive yolk may not be combined intimately with the germinal substance; but even if so, it is obvious that the germinal bears a much larger proportion to the nutritive yolk than in the bird or reptile, and, as will appear more clearly hereafter, there is thus some founda- tion for the distinction between the holoblastic and the meroblastic forms of ova, although it may be that in different animals these forms pass insensibly into one another. In both kinds of ova, however, whether holoblastic or meroblastic, the subsequent phenomena of development show that the spot where the organising process begins, occupies a determinate situation in the ovum, and that the first rudiments of the embryo arrange themselves in a determinate order round a central point in the germ. There is, therefore, in the ova of birds and mammals, a part of the yolk which is more immediately germinal, and a central point of that germ from which development spreads, to which the name of germinal pole may be given. The centre of the germ is probably coincident with the place last occupied by the germinal vesicle. Disappearance of the germinal vesicle.—The most marked change in the interior of the ovum which is known to accompany its maturation and escape from the ovary is the disappearance of the Fig. 489.