CONNECTIVE TISSUE. 66 again and regains its original properties. It is resolved into gelatin by boiling. Vessels and Nerves.—The fibrous tissue receives Mood-vessels, but in general they are inconsiderable both in number and size compared with the mass of tissue to which they belong. In tendons and liga- ments with longitudinal fasciculi, the chief branches of the vessels run parallel with and between the larger fasciculi, and, sending communi- cating branches across them, eventually form a very open network with large oblong meshes. Some fibrous membranes, as the periosteum and dura mater, are much more vascular; but the vessels seen in these membranes do not strictly belong to them, being destined for the bones which they cover. Lymphatics are contained in great abundance, as Ludwig and Schweigger-Seidel* have shown, in the enveloping areolar-tissue sheaths of tendons and aponeuroses, where they form plexuses with polygonal meshes. In addition to these a close net-work of lymphatic vessels with elongated meshes may be injected in the deeper parts of the tendons. A connection no doubt subsists between these lymphatics and the cell-spaces of the fibrous structures : and it has been suggested, with great probability, that those of the tendons are largely concerned in the removal of matters derived from the attached muscles, in which the existence of lymphatic plexuses has not hitherto been established. As to nerves, their existence in tendons and ligaments has not been 1 satisfactorily demonstrated by anatomical investigation. The fasciae and the sheaths of tendons are also destitute of nerves. On the other hand, fine nerves have been traced in the interosseous membrane of the leg, and nervous filaments are even abundant in the periosteum, but the majority of them do not belong to the membrane itself, but are destined for the subjacent bone. Nerves have also been traced in the dura mater ; some accompany the vessels, others appear destined for the membrane itself, and others again for the bones. It has been proved by numerous observations and experiments, that the tendons and ligaments are, in the healthy state, quite insensible ; but then it is known, on the other hand, that they occasion severe pain when inflamed, which cannot well be accounted for on the supposition that they are entirely destitute of nerves. Bichat, while he admitted their insensibility to cutting, burning, and most other kinds of stimuli which cause pain in sensible textures, ascribed to them a peculiar sensi- bility to twisting or to violent traction, and this opinion has been supported by other authorities of weight, but the proofs of it are not clear. Regeneration. — Fibrous tissue readily heals and unites when divided, as is seen in cases of broken tendo Achillis. It is very generally produced as a uniting medium of broken bones when osseous union fails to take place ; and is common as a diseased production in various kinds of tumours. YELLOW OR ELASTIC TISSUE. Whilst the fibrous tissue is remarkable for its want of extensibility, and owes its usefulness as a constituent of the frame in a great measure to that character, the substance we have now to consider possesses this * Die Lymphgefasse der Fascieen unci Sehnen. Leipzig, 1870.