CLEAVAGE OF LATERAL PARTS OE THE MESOBLAST. 693 vertebrae are not developed or are imperfect, it attains much larger pro- portions, and itself constitutes the principal vertebral axis. Protovertehrse.—On either side of this axial cord a thick mass or plate of mesoblast is collected along its whole length, and very soon there appear several transverse clefts in these plates forming the com- mencement of protovertebral segmentation. The first formed of these divisions is near the anterior or uppermost of the future cervical vertebrae, and they rapidly extend backwards in the posterior or lower cervical and dorsal region (fig. 501, pv, and fig. 503, uw). The divisions becoming more distinct, separate small quadrilateral masses, which have received the name of protovertebrce, by which it is meant to indicate that they are not the same with the permanent vertebral pieces of the skeleton, but rather correspond to embryonic somatomes, or metameric segments, corresponding closely in number with the permanent vertebral divisions, but including the rudiments of other parts, such as those of the spinal nerves, along with those of the vertebrae. The basis of the cranium, into which the notochord extends, does not at first present any transverse division similar to that of the vertebral portion of the axis, and the notochord itself is at first without segmen- tation, and forms therefore a simple and entire cylinder. Pleural Cleavage of the Lateral Parts of the Mesoblast.*— Together with the formation of the protovertebral plates and their trans- verse segmentation, another important change begins in the lateral part of the mesoblast external to these plates, which consists in its cleavage into an upper or outer and a lower or inner lamina, and the consequent formation between them of an interval or space (figs. 503, sp, and 504, pp). The two laminae thus separated constitute respectively the somatopleure and splanchnopleure portions of the meso- blast, and the space between them is the commencement of the pleuro- peritoneal cavity, which afterwards forms by its partition within the embryo the pleurae, pericardium, and peritoneum, and which beyond Fig. 504. N.C. Fig, 504.—Diagrammatic longitudinal section through the Axis of an Embryo (from Foster and Balfour). The section is supposed to be made at a time when the head-fold has commenced, but the tail-fold has not yet appeared. A, epiblast; B, mesoblast ; O, hypoblast ; FSo, fold of the somatopleure ; FSp, fold of the splanchnopleure ; Am, commencing (head) fold of the amnion : NO, neural canal, closed in front, but still open behind ; Ch, noto- chord,—in front of it, uncleft mesoblast in the base of the cranium ; Z>, the commencing foregut, or alimentary canal ; Ht, heart ; pp, pleuro-peritoneal cavity. * "Pleural" is here used in the sense " parietal.