ARTERIAL AND "VENOUS BLOOD. S3 In 1000 parts of corpuscles— Water . Solids . 565-0 435-0 In 1000 parts of plasma— Water 908-4 Solids 91-6 Fibrin . . 9*2 Albumin . 70'5 Fats . .1-0 Extractives . 3-6 Soluble salts 5*8 Insoluble salts 1*5 Scherer and Otte give the following as the composition of human venous blood :— In 100 parts of blood— Water 79"05 f Fibrin 0*2 I Albuminoids (with Solid matters ..... 2Q-9o-{ Haemoglobin) . 19*44: Difference between Arterial and Venous Blood.—By arterial blood is meant that which is contained in the aorta and its branches (systemic arteries), in the .pulmonary veins and in the left cavities of the heart; the venous blood is that of the veins generally, the pulmonary arteries, and right cavities of the heart. Their differences, apart from their functional effects in the living body, come under the heads of colour and composition. 1. Colour. Arterial blood, as already stated, is scarlet, venous blood dark, or purple. Venous blood assumes the scarlet colour on exposure to air, i. e., to oxygen. This change is greatly promoted by the saline matter of the serum, and may be accelerated by adding salts or sugar to the blood, especially by car- oonate of potash, or of soda, and by nitre. Salts added to dark blood, without exposure to oxygen or air, cause it to assume a red colour, but not equal in brightness to that of arterial blood. On the other hand, the addition of a little water darkens the blood. According to Stokes, the corpuscles in the .former case " lose water by exosmosis, and become thereby highly refractive, in consequence of which a more copious reflexion takes place at the common sur- face of the corpuscles and surrounding fluid. In the latter case they gain water by endosmosis, which makes their refractive power more nearly equal to that of the ■fluid in which they are contained, and the reflexion is consequently diminished." * But the presence of serum or of saline matter is not indispensable to the bright- ening, for although the clot when washed free from serum scarcely if at all reddens on exposure to oxygen, yet it is found that the red matter when squeezed out of the clot and dissolved in water, still becomes brighter and clearer on exposure to oxygen, whilst the colour is darkened (and the solution becomes turbid from deposition of paraglobulin), on being shaken with carbonic acid. As in this case the colouring matter is extracted from the corpuscles and is red- dened by oxygen without the presence of salts, it is plain that the difference of •colour of arterial and venous blood essentially depends, not on a difference in the figure or density of the corpuscles, but on the alteration produced in the colour- •48 •83 ^Soluble salts. The serum of the same blood yielded in 100 parts— Water . Albumin Extractives . Soluble salts. 90-66 7-76 0.51 0-94 * Proc. Royal Soc., vol. xiii. p. 362. vol. ir. D