764 DEVELOPMENT OF THE ORGANS OF SENSE. time as a broad white line, particularly obvious in the embryo bird, running from the circumference in upon the lens. The lens is developed in the part of the cuticle opposite to the most projecting part of the primary optic vesicle, or at the place where this vesicle comes in contact with the surface of the head. In this situation there is seen from a very early period a thickening of the epiblast, which seems to reside chiefly in its deeper layer of cells, and in birds and mammals it would appear that an actual involution of the cuticle] takes place, so that first an open follicle and next an enclosed ball of cuticle is formed. Although, however, both the corneous and the deeper layer (sensory of Strieker) of the cuticle are enclosed, it is only the cells of the deeper layer which undergo de- velopment into the fibres of the lens. The ball of the lens separating from the external cuticle, which passes freely over the surface, a cavity filled with loose cells, the remains of cells of the corneous layer, exists for a time within the lens ball. Then the cells of the hinder or inner wall are seen to rise from the bottom by their elongation, and thus a rapid growth of fibres from that side of the ball takes place, while the anterior or outer wall undergoes no similar change, but retains its simply cellular structure. Figures 565, and 566, show sufficiently clearly the manner in which the fibres thus developed from cells rise from the bottom of the lens ball and come to constitute the solid part of the lens. The optic cup receives the enlarging lens in its anterior and lower opening, and the reflected margins of the cup closely embrace the margin of the lens ; but there is a considerable space intervening between the lens and the hollow of the optic cup (or secondary ocular vesicle), which comes to be occupied by the vitreous humour. Into this space connective tissue and blood-vessels developed from mesoblastic Fig. 565. Fig. 565.—Section of the Eye in an Embryo-Calf of 18 mm. long, magnified (from Julius Arnold). The posterior or inner wall of the lens follicle is now much thickened by the elongation of its fibres, each of which presents a nucleus, and the whole causing a bulging of the posterior wall. The outer layer of the lens capsule consists of columnar cells. The cavity of the lens follicle is still visible, but is now widened and flattened. Two layers of mesoblastic tissue are now visible between the lens and the cuticle, viz., a deeper vascular layer and a superficial non-vascular one containing nuclei. The secondary optic capsule is now occupied by connective tissue nuclei and numerous blood-vessels. The retinal section of the primitive ocular vesicle is now thicker. Pigment begins to ap- pear in the choroidal section, and numerous blood- vessels surround the whole exterior. elements are projected from below, so as to furnish the materials for the formation of the vitreous humour and the blood-vessels which pass through it to the lens, and also to surround the lens with vascular and fibrous elements, out of which are produced the capsulo-pupillary mem- brane, and probably also the capsule of the lens. It results from the