THE KIDNEYS. 406 slightly diverging lines, and they continue thus to divide and subdivide until they reach the sides and bases of the pyramids, whence they pass, greatly augmented in number, into the cortical substance, where they become convoluted. In the cortical part the straight tubules belonging to a Malpighian pyramid are continued for some way, in several groups or bundles, the tubules in the centre of which approach nearer the surface than those at the sides, which sooner become convoluted, so that conical bundles are formed which have been termed pyramids of Ferrein, several of which therefore correspond to a single Malpighian pyramid. The tubes commence in the cortical substance by spherical dilatations (fig. 287, I) enclosing like a capsule the vascular Malpighian tufts to be afterwards described. Arising in this manner, the tubes are at first much convoluted (n) ; they then become smaller (in), pass straight down in the pyramid towards the papilla, and return again (iv), forming the looped tubes of Henle. Each of these tubes on returning to the cortical substance becomes again convoluted (v), and joins one of the straight collecting tubes (vi). This part is named the junctional tube. The collecting tubes uniting together eventually form the excretory tubes (ix) (often called ducts of Bellini), which open on the papilla?. Structure of the tubules.—The tubules consist in every case of a basement membrane and epithelium, but the form and character of the Fig. 288. Fig. 288.—Convoluted Tubules of Kidney. About 400 Diameters. a, transverse, a', longitudinal section of a tubule from the human kidney ; b, portion of a tubule from the dog's kidney, showing the striated appearance of the base of the cells, somewhat analogous to that observed in the tubules of the submaxillary gland. latter, as well as the size of the tubes, varies considerably in the different parts. In the straight or collecting and excretory tubes the epithelium is columnar in form, the cells are distinct, and the lumen of the tube is of considerable size. These tubules are largest near their termination, at a short distance from which within the papillae, their diameter varies, according to Huschke, from ^loth. to 4*otn 0I> an incn- Further on in the pyramid they become smaller, measuring about -o^o-th of an inch in diameter, and then do not diminish as they continue to bifurcate, but remain nearly of the same uniform average diameter.