784 DEVELOPMENT OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. penetrating into the mesoblast only on the twelfth day in the chick. The pulmonary arteries are developed in mammals in connection with the fifth branchial arch of the left side, but the manner in which they become connected with the vessels formed in the lung-substance, and the manner in which a union is established between the pulmonary veins and the left auricle have not yet been ascertained. DEVELOPMENT OF THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS. In the account of the general phenomena of development the esta- blishment of the first circulation of blood, by the simultaneous formation of the simple heart and of the first blood-vessels and blood in the body of the embryo and in the vascular area of the blastoderm, has already been described, and in the General Anatomy (p. 180) an account has Fig. 583.—Outlines of the anterior HALF OF THE EMBRYO ChICK VIEWED FROM BELOW, SHOWING THE HEART IN ITS EARLIEST STAGES OF FORMATION (after Remak). ^° A, Embryo of about 20 to 30 hours ; B, of about 36 to 40 hours ; a, anterior cerebral vesicle ; b, proto-vertebral seg- ments ; c, amniotic fold ; 1, 1, primitive omphalo-mesenteric veins entering the heart posteriorly; 2, their union in the auricle of the heart ; 3, the middle part of the tube corresponding to the ven- tricle ; 4 (in B) the arterial bulb. been given of the histological changes occurring in the first development of the blood-vessels and blood. DEVELOPMENT OP THE HEART. Origin of the Heart—Simple Tubular Form.—The heart takes its origin in the form of an elongated sac or dilated tube in the substance of a thickening of the splanchno-pleure layer of the mesoblast, in the ventral aspect of the cephalic portion of the primitive alimentary canal, immediately in front of the fovea cardiaca. Doubts have existed as to the exact mode of production of the cavity of the organ, but the observa- tions of Affanasieff and Klein, and especially those of Foster and Balfour, appear to show that the substance in which the first rudiments of the heart arise is produced by a thickening of the lower wall of the mesoblastic layer of the primitive intestine, and that the cavity is formed by a solution of continuity or liquefaction of this substance in such a manner that, while the outer cells constitute the foundation of the commencing fibrous walls, a deep set of cells very soon or from the first arrange themselves in the form of an endo-vascular lining of the cavity. The organ has at first the form of an elongated sac or dilated tube of symmetrical shape, widening out behind into two lateral orifices, each of which is connected with an omphalo-mesenteric vein of its own side bringing the nascent blood back from the vascular area, while the anterior part of the rndimental heart leads into two arterial