327 THE ORGANS OF TASTE. often terminates in a depression, closed at the bottom, which is called the foramen ccecum (Morgagni), and in which several mucous glands open. Three folds, named the glosso-epiglottic folds or framula, of which the middle one is the largest (fraenum epiglottidis), pass backwards from the base of the tongue to the epiglottis. The upper surface of the tongue in front of the foramen caecum (the anterior two-thirds) is covered with small eminences named papillm. They are found also upon the tip and borders, where, however, they gradually become smaller, and towards its under surface they disappear. These papillaB are dis- tinguished into three orders, circumvallate, fungiform and filiform, vary- ing both in size and form, but all of them visible to the naked eye ; they themselves, like the rest of the mucous membrane of the tongue and mouth generally are covered with closely set, microscopic secondary papillae hidden under the epithelium, which correspond with those of the skin, and are each occupied by a long loop of capillary blood-vessels. The large circumvallate papillae (fig. 226,1, 2), from seven to twelve in number, are found on the back part of the tongue, arranged in Fig. 227.—Vertical Section op Cir- cumvallate Papilla from the Calf (Engelmann). 25 Diameters. A, the papilla; B, the surrounding wall. The figure shows the nerves of the papilla spreading towards the sur- ;. ' ; face, and towards the taste-buds which ' „ ^< are imbedded in the epithelium at the sides ; in the sulcus on the left the duct of a gland is seen to open. two rows, which run obliquely backwards and inwards, and meet towards the foramen cge- cum, like the arms of the letter V. They are situated in cup-like depressions of the mucous membrane, and have the shape of a trun- cated cone, of which the Fig. 228. Fig. 228.—Two Taste-buds prom the Papilla FOLIATA OF THE PtABBIT. mann). 450 Diameters (Engel- smaller end is attached to the bottom of the cavity, and the broad flat- tened base appears on the surface (fig. 227). They are therefore surrounded by a circular trench (fos- sa), around which again is an annular elevation of the mucous membrane (vallum), and in some of them there is found a cen- tral depression, into which the ducts of one or more glands open. The epithe- lium covering the papillae vallate is thick and stratified, as elsewhere in the mouth, and completely conceals the minute secondary papillae. Forming a zone around the sides of the papilla are found, imbedded in this thick epithelium, peculiar