050 THE EAR. Fig. 464. the columnar, and are supported by them. Finally, as described by Max Schultze, a layer of columnar epithelium (5) rests upon the tunica propria by the broad ends of the cells, whilst the opposite, tapering ends project between the other epithelial and nervous elements, which they no doubt assist to support. The branches of the auditory nerve (n) pass directly through the loose-meshed tissue above mentioned and through the thickened tunica propria ; the fibres then lose their medullary sheath and dark contour, and are continued as simple axis-cylinders. Immediately before reaching the epithelium each axis-cylinder appears to break up or branch out into a number of fine fibrils, which form a network by uniting with the neighbouring fibrils beneath and between the bases or attached ends of the epithelium cells. With this fine network the central ends of the spindle- shaped cells, which, as just mentioned, are stated to bear at their opposite free extremity the fine auditory hairs, are believed to be connected. According to Riidinger, a nervous fibril passes directly through the axis of each spindle-cell, and projects at the free end as an auditory hair, being in its course connected with the nucleus of the cell. An entirely different account of the relations between these several elements is given by Eetzius, who describes the auditory hairs (fig. 464, Ji) as being borne each by one of the columnar-shaped cells, and these latter as con- nected by the narrower central end (c') with, and passing directly into a nerve-fibril, whereas the long, slender, spindle-shaped cells (sp) which project] at one extremity between the columnar elements, and the nucleated bodies of which are several rows deep, rest by their somewhat broadened basal end upon the tunica propria, and are to be regarded merely as sup- porting structures for the proper nervous ele- ments. According to the same observer, the nerves retain their medullary sheath some little way beyond the limit of the tunica propria, and their axis fibres do not form an anas- tomosing network, but after merely branching two or three times pass directly, as just stated, into the attenuated ends of the columnar cells, which he accordingly terms the " auditory" cells. He further states that the auditory hairs are very liable to break up under the influence of reagents into a bunch of more delicate hairlets (#).* The whole question must be regarded as at present undecided, * Anatomiscke Untersuchungen : Das Grehorlabyrinth cler Knochenfische, Stockholm, 1S72. 3 Fig. 464.—Auditory Epi- thelium from Ampulla of a Fish (Retzius). Highly Magnified. 7i, auditory hairs ; 7i'} the basal end of one broken up into finer filaments ; sp, spindle-cells ; c', attenu- ated extremity of columnar cell.