CHANGES OF CELLS IX THE FORMATION OF TISSUES. 11 Changes which occur in Cells. — The changes which may occur in cells in relation to the production of the textures are of two prin- cipal kinds, according as the form of the cell, or the nature of the sub- stance composing it, undergoes alteration. These changes may occur at one and the same time—indeed, this is commonly found to be the case; it will, however, be more convenient here to consider them separately. 1. Chemical and Plastic Changes occurring in Cells.—The protoplasm originally composing the embryonic cell may become variously altered in chemical constitution, all such changes tending to diminish the original activity of the cell and to fit it for a special function. An alteration com- monly met with in older cells is the conversion of the outer portion of the protoplasm into a comparatively dense layer, which constitutes an investment for the remainder, and in this way approximates the cell more to the vegetable type. Such a transformation is met with in a high degree in the stratified epithelia, in which the cells of the upper- most layers become almost entirely transformed into dense horny scales. Another change which is apt to occur is the deposition within the cell of various chemical principles, which are either derived directly from the plasma of the blood, in which in such cases they pre-exist, or are elaborated by the cell itself from some other constituent of that fluid. Examples of these changes are to be found in the deposit of fat and pigment, and of the peculiar constituents of certain secretions within the cells of the tissue or gland producing them. The deposition of fat occurs ordinarily and in its most characteristic form in the corpuscles of the connective tissue, transforming them into fat cells, although it may occasionally be found in other cells, such as those of the liver and of cartilage. Pigment on the other hand may be deposited both in connective tissue cells and in epithelium, and this to such an extent as to give an intensely black appearance to the part, as in the choroid coat of the eye and in the cuticle of the negro. Sometimes these chemical changes are accompanied by others of a plastic or organizing character, as in the fibrillation which is often found to occur in cells, and notably in those of the nervous and muscular tissues, as well as in the formation of the spontaneously moving bodies called spermatozoa in the spermatic cells. Another example of such a change is to be found in the formation of red blood corpuscles within the cells of connective tissue. These plastic changes are equally unexplained with the other alterations of form and structure which accompany the production and metamorphoses of cells. As regards the changes in the quantity and chemical nature of the contained matter, it may be remarked that the introduction of new matter into a cell is to a great extent a phenomenon of imbibition. In addition to this, many cells, by virtue of their amoeboid movements to be presently described, are enabled to take into then substance minute solid particles, both inorganic and organic. But, while an alteration in the contents of a cell may be thus brought about by imbibition and intersusception of pre-existing material, the contained substance may also be changed in its qualities by a process of conversion or elaboration taking place within the cell. 2. Changes in Form—The changes of form which may occur in cells are of two kinds, the one being merely passive and mechanical, the other dependent upon the growth of the cell. Instances of the former are seen in those cases where, by mutual compression, the cells