THE PERICARDIUM. 241 (fig. 164, 5, 5). It is reflected also upon the superior vena cava (c), and on the four pulmonary veins (p, p'), and forms a deep recess or prolonged cavity between the entrance of the right and left veins into the left auricle. The inferior vena cava (c') receives only a Fig. 164. Fig. 164.—Semi-Diagrammatic View of the Pericardium prom behind, designed TO SHOW THE PRINCIPAL INFLECTIONS OP THE SEROUS SAO ROUND THE GrREAT Vessels (Allen Thomson). One-half the natural size. The drawing is taken from preparations in which the heart and vessels had been partially filled by injection, the pericardium inflated and dried in the distended state, and the fibrous continuation on the vessels removed. By the removal of a portion of the pericardium from behind the right and left cavities of the heart, the position of that organ is made apparent. A bent probe is passed within the pericardium from behind the right auricle, in front of the vena cava inferior, to the back of the left ventricle, which may indicate the place where the large undivided sac of the pericardium is folded round that vein. A, posterior surface of the right auricle ; A', the same of the left ; V, right ventricle ; V, left ventricle ; Ao, the upper and back part of the aortic arch ; b, innomi- nate artery ; G, vena cava superior ; az, azygos vein ; C, vena cava inferior between the diaphragm and its union with the right auricle ; c", great coronary vein ; +, cord of the ductus arteriosus ; P, the right, P', the left pulmonary artery ; p, the right, p', the left pulmonary veins ; D, the back of the central tendon of the diaphragm ; 1, sac of the pericardium as yet uninflected ; 2, portion of this on the right side which partially sur- rounds the vena cava superior, the upper and lower right pulmonary veins, and the vena cava inferior ; 3, the portion of the left side which partially surrounds the vena cava inferior ; 4, the portion which is extended upwards behind the left auricle, and partially folds over the pulmonary arteries and veins, and which meets between these different vessels the extensions of the main sac from the right and left ; 5, tubular portion of the pericardium which completely surroimds the aortic and pulmonary arterial trunks. R 2