261 THE ENDOCARDIUM. extensively distributed throughout the muscular substance, occurriagin the form of freely communicating fissure-like spaces, lying between the muscular bundles, and lined by epithelioid cells ; the mode of origin being thus to a certain extent lacunar. The nerves given off by the cardiac plexuses appear rather small in comparison with the bulk of the heart; they are derived partly from the cerebro-spinal and partly from the sympathetic system (more especially from the pneumogastric nerve, and from the cervical and superior thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic nerve). Besides the larger ganglia in the cardiac plexuses at the base of the heart, the nerves present minute ganglia at different points along their course in its substance, first Pig. 179.—View of a Partial Dissec- tion op the Fibres of the anterior wall of the Ventricles in a Sheep's Heart, designed to show the differ- ent degrees of obliquity of the fibres (Allen Thomson). At the base and apex the superficial layer of fibres is displayed : in the interven- ing space, more and more of the fibres have been removed from above downwards, reaching to a greater depth on the left than on the right side. a\ a\ the superficial layer of the right ven- tricle ; 61, &1, the same of the left ventricle ; at 2 this superficial layer lias been removed so as to expose the fibres underneath, Avhich are seen to have the same direction as the superficial ones over the left ventricle, but different over the right; at 3 some of these have been removed, but the direction is only .slightly different; 4, transverse or annular fibres occupying the middle of the thickness of the ventricular walls ; 6, 7, internal fibres passing downwards towards the apex to emerge at the whorl; between c, c, the anterior coronary or interventri- cular groove, over which the fibres of the superficial layer are seen crossing ; in the deeper fibres turn backwards towards the aorta. Fig. 179. e remaining part of the groove, some of the septum ; d, the pulmonary artery ; c, the figured and described by Remak.* The larger nerves course obliquely downwards on the surface of the ventricles beneath the pericardium, crossing the direction of the superficial fibres, and giving off at intervals branches into the muscular substance. Endocardium.—The cavities of the heart are lined by a thin mem- brane continuous with the inner coat of the bloodvessels, with which in general structure it for the most part agrees. A layer of flattened epithelioid cells covers and lines the inner surface, and beneath this the endocardium consists of connective tissue with a close network of elastic fibres often passing into fenestrated membrane. Muscular fibres are present in some parts. These are for the most part similar to those which compose the chief muscular substance of the heart. * Froriep's Notizen, 1833, p. 137 ; and Muller's Archiv, 1811, p. 463, taf. xii.