669 THE NASAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 484. IF like that investing the cavity of the tympanum, with the periosteum and perichondrium, over which it lies. It is continuous with the skin through the nostrils ; with the mucous membrane of the pharynx through the posterior apertures of the nasal fossa3 ; with the conjunctiva through the nasal duct and lachrymal canaliculi; and with the lining membrane of the several sinuses which communicate with the nasal fossae. The pituitary membrane, however, varies much in thickness, vascularity, and general appearance in these different parts. It is thickest and most vascular over the turbinate bones (particularly the inferior), from the most dependent parts of which it forms projections in front and behind, thereby increasing the surface to some extent. On the septum nasi the pituitary membrane is also very thick and spongy; but in the intervals between the turbinate bones, and over the floor of the nasal fossae, it is considerably thinner. In the maxillary, frontal, and sphenoidal sinuses, and in the ethmoidal cells, the mucous lining membrane, being very thin and pale, contrasts strongly with that which occupies the nasal fossae. In respect of the characters of the mucous membrane, three regions of the nasal fossae may be distinguished. Thus, the region of the external nostrils, including all the part which is roofed by the nasal cartilages, is lined with stratified squamous epithelium ; and the remainder is divisible into two parts, viz., the olfactory region in which the epithelium is non-ciliated and columnar, and the respiratory region in which, as also in the sinuses, it is ciliated and columnar. The membrane in the respiratory part, con- sisting of the inferior turbinated and all the lower portions of the fossae, is studded with numerous racemose mucous glands, which open by orifices apparent on the surface. These are most numerous about the middle and hinder parts of the nasal fossae, and are largest at the back of the septum near the floor of the nasal cavity. They are much smaller and less numerous in the membrane lining the several cavities which communi- cate with the nasal fossae. Olfactory mucous membrane. — The olfactory region or that in which the olfactory nerve is distributed, includes the upper and middle turbinated parts of the fossae, and the upper portion of the septum. It is extremely vascular, a close plexus of large capillary vessels being found under the lining membrane throughout its whole extent. Its mucous membrane is thicker and more delicate in consistence than that of the ciliated region, being soft and pulpy. It has a distinct yellow colour in man ; brown in some animals. The glands of this region are numerous, but are of a more simple structure than those in the lower part of the fossse ; amongst them, however, some ordinary race- mose glands are occasionally to be found. The columnar cells on its Fig. 484.—Vertical Section op a small portion of the Membrane op the Nose from the Olfactory Re- gion (Ecker). 50 Dia- meters. a, coloured part of the epi- thelium ; a', nuclei ; b, deeper part containing the olfactory cells ; c, connective tissue of the mucous membrane ; d, one of the glands ; d', its duct ; e, twig of the olfactory nerve ; e' small twig passing towards the surface.