IXTEEXAL PARTS. 549 , and is seen only on section of the hemisphere. Its horizontal section re- sembles that of a biconvex lens, being wider in the centre than at either end, hence its name. Its antero-posterior diameter corresponds closely with that of the Island of Eeil, and its greatest width is opposite the anterior edge of the optic thalamus. On a transverse vertical section through the middle it appears triangular, the apex of the triangle being directed inwards, and two clear lines, parallel to the outer side, divide it into three zones, of which the outer is striated and the inner slightly reddish in tint. On its outer side is the grey lamina, termed the claustrum (p. 564). Along the inner border of each corpus striatum, and in a depression between it and the optic thalamus, is seen a narrow whitish semitrans- parent band, named tcenia semicircular is, or stria terminalis (fig. 383, c), which is continued backwards into the white substance of the roof of the descending cornu of the ventricle. In front it reaches the corre- sponding anterior pillar of the fornix, and descends in connection with that cord of white substance. The thai ami optici {posterior cerebral ganglia) (d, fig. 383) are of an oval shape, and rest on the corresponding cerebral crura, which they in a manner embrace. On the outer side each thalamus is bounded by the •corpus striatum and tsenia semicircularis. The upper surface, which is white, is free and prominent, and is partly seen in the lateral ventricle, and partly covered by the fornix. The part which is seen in the lateral ventricle is more elevated than the rest, and is named the anterior tubercle. The posterior and inner part of the upper surface, beneath the fornix, is likewise prominent and is termed the posterior tubercle (pul- mnar) (th, in fig. 384). The posterior surface, which is also white and free, projects into the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. The inner sides of the two thalami are in partial contact one with the other. They present grey substance uncovered with white, and are generally connected together by a transverse portion, which forms the middle or soft commissure of the third ventricle. According to Mey- nert, the grey matter on the inner surface is distinct from that of the interior of the thalamus. The pineal body or gland (conarium) (fig. 383) is a small reddish body, which is placed beneath the back part of the corpus callosum, and rests upon the anterior elevation of the corpora quadrigemina. It is ad- herent to the under surface of the velum interpositum, so that it is liable to be torn away from the brain in removing that membrane. It is about the size of a small cherry-stone. Its base of attachment, which is its broader part, is directed forwards, and is connected with the rest of the cerebrum by white substance. This white substance is principally collected into two small rounded bundles, named peduncles of the pineal gland (fig. 384, sp), which pass forwards upon the optic thalami along their upper and inner borders, and may be traced as far as the anterior pillars of the fornix, in conjunction with which they descend. These peduncles are connected with each other behind, and the band of union between them is adherent to the back of the posterior commissure. The pineal gland is very vascular. It is hollowed out into two or more cells, which, sometimes at least, open anteriorly into the ventricle, and almost always contain, beside a viscid fluid, many round and angular corpuscles densely massed together, and a quantity of gritty matter, named acervulus cerebri. This consists of microscopic round