THE EAE. lies within the sac, attached to its wall (fig. 458, £). These otoliths are crystals of carbonate of lime, rhombic, octahedral, or six-sided, often pointed at their extremities. The ends of all the membranous semicircular canals open into the utricle. The smaller vestibular vesicle, the saccule (II), is more nearly spherical than the common sinus, but, like it, is somewhat flattened. It contains similar otoconia in its wall (fig. 458, m). The saccule is situated in the lower and fore part of the cavity of the osseous vesti- bule, close to the opening from the scala vestibuli of the cochlea, and is received into the hollow of the fovea hemispherica, from the bottom of which many branches of nerve enter it. A minute canal, lined with epithelium, passes from the utricle along the aqueductus vestibuli to end blindly near the posterior surface of the petrous bone. It is joined near its origin by a similar one from the saccule, so that in this way the cavity of the saccule is brought into communication with that of the utricle (Boettcher). Lastly, the saccule is connected with the membranous canal of the cochlea by means of a short, narrow canal, the canalis reuniens (Hensen). Semicircular Cabals.—The membranous semicircular canals are about one-third the diameter of the osseous tubes in which they are lodged, and are dilated into ampullae within the ampullary enlargements of those tubes. In section they are oval or somewhat elliptical (fig. Fig. 459. Fig. 460. Fig. 459.—Membranous Labyrinth and Nervous Twigs detached, magnified(Breschet). Tc, facial nerve in the meatus auditorius internus ; J, anterior division of the auditory nerve giving branches, o, m, n, to the utricle and the ampullae of the superior and external canals ; q, posterior division of the auditory nerve, giving branches to the saccule, 6, posterior ampulla, c, and cochlea, r ; d, the united part of the superior and posterior canals. Fig. 460.—Ampull.e op the Superior and External Semicircular Canals and Part op the Common Sinus, showing the Attachment op the Nerves (from Steifensand). "£ 1, membranous ampulla of the superior canal ; 2, that of the external canal; 3, part of the common sinus ; 4 and 5, fork-like swellings of the nerves at their ampullar dis- tribution ; 6, twig of the auditory nerve spreading in the common sinus.