391 THE HEPATIC CELLS. cell Fig. 27: Kieman passive congestion. In what is considered an active state of hepatic congestion, the dark colour extends to the portal system, across the interlobular fissures, leaving intermediate spaces, which remain as irregular pale spots : this state occurs especially in diseases of the heart. When, on the other hand, the portal system is congested, which is rare, and occurs chiefly in children, the margins of the lobules are dark, and their centres pale. The Hepatic Cells.—The interstices between the blood-vessels are, as before said, almost entirely filled by the hepatic cells. These are of a compressed spheroidal or polyhedral form, having a mean dia- meter of from ToW^1 to -gi-oth of an inch. They possess no membrane. Their sub- stance appears granular and of a faint yellowish tinge, and they contain each a clear round nucleus, within which again are one or two nucleoli. Not unfre- quently two nuclei are to be found in a cell; and, on the other hand, it is stated that some of the cells may be altogether devoid of nuclei. In many cases the cells have larger and smaller fat-globules in their interior, which may conceal the nucleus, and the amyloid matter pro- duced by the liver has also been recognised in the cells. When isolated in an indifferent fluid they are said to exhibit slow changes of form. Moreover, my- osin has been detected in them. The liver-cells are packedbetween and around the vessels, and in sections made at right angles to the intralobular veins, appear as if radiating from the centre of the lobules towards their circumference. They form a continuous network, or spongework (fig. 279), the more obvious openings in which are the spaces occupied by the blood-capillaries. The walls of the latter are not, as at first sight they appear to be, im- mediately in contact with the liver cells, but are separated from them by a delicate membrane composed of flattened cells ; the space between this membrane and the capillary wall serves for the passage of lymph (MacGillavry). The hepatic cells may be washed away from thin sections, and then the network of blood-capillaries is brought more clearly into view ; and likewise, according to Henle, narrow bands, which he regards as formed of connective tissue, are to be seen crossing the intervals : some have regarded them as the network of the minute bile passages to be immediately described. Commencement of the Ducts.—The larger bile-ducts accompany, Fig. 279.—A Small Portion of a Lobule op the Human Liver highly magnified, showing the Hepatic Cells in connection and the Capil- lary Spaces between them (from Kolhker). 450 Diameters.