PONS VAROLII. 514 well as backwards through the pons, the sixth having a tolerably straight course, and the seventh curving inwards, to reach the nucleus which is much nearer to the middle line than is the place of emergence of the nerve from the side of the medulla. The nucleus consists of a column of large multipolar nerve cells, and in it nearly all the fibres of the sixth nerve, and a considerable number of those of the facial end. Other fibres of the facial, however, pass above the upper extremity of the nucleus and then, turning down, descend on its inner side as a compact bundle (fig. 359, vu"), and opposite the lower part of the nucleus radiate outwards and downwards, some to the superior olivary body (so) and others to an adjacent group of nerve cells from which also (higher up) the fibres of the motor root of the fifth nerve arise (vm). The prominence outside the vagal nucleus in the lower part of the- ventricle marks the position of the inner nucleus of the auditory nerve (fig. 355). It is triangular on section, and consists of oval and stellate nerve cells, smaller than those of the facial nucleus, and imbedded in a granular matrix. It is closely connected below with the nucleus of the glossopharyngeal nerve, and above, with that of the fifth nerve. The outer nucleus, a little higher up, is placed to the outer side of the inner nucleus, and consists of the grey network of cells and fibres into which the restiform and post-pyramidal nuclei have become transformed. (Lockhart Clarke.) The auditory nerve divides into two nearly equal parts ; the posterior division curves round the restiform body, and arises chiefly from the inner nucleus : the anterior division passes through the substance of the inferior peduncle of the cerebellum, and arises from both nuclei; some fibres of the anterior division pass with the restiform body directly to the cerebellum, where they have been traced to the superior vermiform process. Both portions of the auditory nerve contain many nerve cells ; in the inferior or outer portion they constitute a pyriform swelling at the anterior edge of the restiform body. The sensory portion of the fifth nerve arises from a collection of grey substance beneath the outer part of the floor of the fourth ven- tricle in its middle third. It is derived chiefly from the continuation upwards of the grey tubercle of Bolando, which constitutes a grey net-work outside the facial nerve (fig. 359, v 6-). The cells are small and arranged in clusters separated by the fasciculi of origin of the nerve. In front of the nucleus a bundle of descending fibres passes, down, mingled with much grey matter, to the lower part of the* medulla oblongata. As the fibres of the fifth pass to the nucleus, they are intimately connected with the fibres of the anterior division of the auditory nerve. The fibres of the motor root of the fifth, have been traced by Lockhart Clarke to a collection of cells close to the outer angle of the fourth ventricle, on the inner side of the trunk of the fifth nerve. The prolongation downwards of this nucleus (fig. 359, Vm),. is situated near the superior olivary body, and with it some fibres of the facial are also connected. The superior olivary body (fig. 359, so) is a collection of small nerve cells, which lies above the outer part of the trapezium. In man it is very much smaller than the inferior olivary body, to which it does not present much resemblance. In some animals, however, it is larger, and presents a distinctly sinuous outline. From it some of the fibres of the. trapezium arise.