781 THE FCETAL LITER. In the very young foetus it occupies nearly the whole of the abdominal cavity ; at the full period it still descends an inch and a half below the margin of the thorax, overlaps the spleen on the left side, and reaches nearly down to the crest of the ilium on the right. Form, Colour, $c.—The foetal liver is considerably thicker in proportion from above downwards than that of the adult. It is generally of a darker hue. Its consistence and specific gravity are both less than in the adult. During fcetal life, the umbilical vein runs from the umbilicus along the free margin of the suspensory ligament towards the anterior border and under surface of the liver, beneath which it is lodged in the umbilical fissure, and proceeds as far as the transverse fissure. Here it divides into two branches ; one of these, the smaller of the two, continues onward in the same direction, and joins the vena cava ; this is the ductus venoms, which occupies the posterior part of the longitudinal fissure, and gives to it the name of the fossa of the ductus venosus. The other and larger branch (the trunk of the umbilical vein) turns to the right along the transverse or portal fissure, and ends in the vena portse, which, pro- ceeding from the veins of the digestive organs, is in the foetus comparatively of small dimensions. The umbilical vein, as it lies in the umbilical fissure, and before it joins the vena porta?, gives off large lateral branches, which pass directly into the right and left lobes of the liver. It also sends a few smaller branches to the square lobe and to the lobe of Spigelius. Fig. 581. Fig. 581.—Under Surface of the F(etal Liver, with its great Blood-vessels, at the full Period. a, the umbilical vein, lying in the xvmbilical fissure, and turn- ing to the right side, at the transverse fissure (o), to join the vena portee (p): the branch marked d, named the ductus venosus, con- tinues straight on to join the vena cava inferior (c) : some branches of the umbilical vein pass from a into the substance of the liver ; g, the gall-bladder. The blood which leaves the liver by the hepatic veins, and is carried into the heart along with that of the vena cava inferior, consists of the following parts, viz. ; 1. That of the umbilical vein, which passes on directly by the ductus venosus ; 2, that portion of the blood which is distributed to the liver by branches proceeding immediately from the trunk of the umbilical vein ; and 3, the blood from the digestive organs of the foetus arriving by the vena porta?. After birth the umbilical vein becomes obliterated from the umbilicus up to the point of its giving off branches to the liver. The ductus venosus is also obliterated, but the veins which were given as branches from the umbilical vein to the liver remain in communication with and appear as branches of the left division of the portal vein. The Pancreas.—This organ takes its origin in a mass of meso- blastic tissue, which thickens the wall of the duodenum, close to the place where the rudiment of the liver is first seen, but placed more to the left side. This mass may be seen on the third day in the chick. There is, however, also a diverticulum from the primary wall of the intestine or hypoblast. The same doubt prevails, as in regard to the