27 CHEMICAL COMPOSITION. matter of blood, is produced by the action of alkalies upon hsemoglobin, and is termed ha'matin. When obtained pure this body is insoluble in water, and also in alcohol and ether, except in presence of an alkali. Like haemoglobin, its alka- line solutions produce a different effect upon the spectrum according as they are oxidated or deoxidated ; the absorption bands are, however, entirely different from those of haemoglobin. The effect of acids upon haematin is to separate the iron and to transform the substance into licvmatoin (acid-hsematin), the spectrum of which is characterised by the presence of four absorption bands. A compound of hasmatin with hydrochloric acid Qwemin, Teichmann) is readily obtained from haemoglobin by warming it with a little salt and glacial acetic acid. On cooling, it crystallizes out in minute reddish-brown acicular prisms (fig. 15), the demonstra- tion of which affords a positive proof Fig. 15.—ELemin Crystals, Magnified of the presence of blood-colouring matter. (from Preyer). They may readily be obtained from dried blood without the addition of salt, merely by warming it with concentrated acetic acid* Inorganic Constituents of the E.ed Corpuscles.—Besides the iron of the haemoglobin, the red corpuscles contain a certain propor- tion of salts, chiefly of potash and lime, combined with carbonic and phosphoric acids. It is, however, impossible to obtain the corpuscles in quantity, sufficiently isolated for exact analysis. Proportion of Hed Corpuscles.—The red corpuscles form by far the largest part of the organic matter in the blood : their proportion may be approximately ascertained by filtering defibrinated blood mixed with solution of sulphate of soda ; or by weighing the dried clot, and making allowance for the fibrin it contains. The latter method, how- ever, will serve only to give a rough estimate, as the very uncertain amount of serum remaining in the clot and affecting its weight cannot be determined. Prevost and Dumas made too large a deduction for the solid matter supposed to belong to the retained serum, and this reduced the estimate of the dried corpuscles too much, viz. to 129 parts per 1000 of blood. Lecanu also gives it at from 120 to 130 : Becquerel and Rodier at from 131 to 152. Schmidt, from three modes of cal- culation, which it is needless here to explain, arrived at the conclusion that the proportion of moist red corpuscles in 1000 parts of blood is from 480 to 520; but there are reasons for regarding this as too high an estimate. Hoppe-Seyler estimates the proportion at 326 per 1000. Different observers agree that, as a general rule, the proportion of red particles is greater in the blood of the male sex than in that of the female. Lecanu gives the following mean result, derived from numerous analyses, exhibiting the pro- portion of dry crassamentum and water in the . blood of the two sexes. No * For some interesting observations by A. Gamgee on the action of nitrites on haemo- globin, see Philosophical Transactions, 1868, p. 589. Fig. 15. 7