PIGMENT. 51 the ciliary motion. Something-, moreover, may depend on the facility or difficulty with which the tissues permit the narcotic fluid to penetrate, which circumstance must needs influence the rapidity and extent of its operation. Again, we see differences in the mode in which the cilia themselves are affected by the same agent; thus, fresh water instantly arrests their motion in certain cases, while it has no such effect in others. The existence of vibrating cilia on the spores and other parts of certain crypto- gamic vegetables may perhaps be considered to afford an argument on the opposite side ; but it is by no means proved that the sensible motions of plants (such, at least, as are not purely physical), and those of animals, do not depend on one common vital property. PIGMENT. The cells of the cuticle, and of other epithelial structures, sometimes contain a black or brown matter, which gives a dark colour to the parts over which the cells are spread. A well-marked example of such pigmented cells in the human body is afforded by the black coating which lines the choroid membrane of the eye, and covers the posterior surface of the iris. Pigment is also met with in certain cells of the investing membrane (pia mater) of the spinal cord, in the membranous labyrinth of the ear, and (with brownish yellow pigment) on the olfactory region of the nose. The pigment, strictly so called, which is contained within the cells, consists of black or brown granules or molecules of a round or oblong •shape, and almost too small for exact measurement. These molecules are densely packed together in some cells ; in others they are more scat- tered, and then it may be seen that there is a certain amount of colour- less matter included along with them. When they escape from the ruptured cells, they exhibit very strikingly the " Brownian " mole- cular movement ; and in conse- quence of this movement the ap- parent figure of the particles is sub- ject to change. It is worthy of remark, that when viewed singly with a very high magnifying power they look transparent and almost colourless, and it is only when they are heaped together that their blackness distinctly appears. The nucleus is colourless, but is very generally hidden from view by the black particles. The dark colour of the negro is known to have its seat in the cuticle, and chiefly in the deeper and softer part named the rete mucosum. It is caused by dark-brown colouring matter within the cells, either diffused through their substance or in form of granules—usually more densely aggregated round the nucleus. The dark parts of the European skin owe their colour and its different shades to the presence of pigment granules in the cells in different proportions. Lastly, it cannot be Fig. 26. Fig. 26.—Pigmented Epithelium Cells from the Choroid ; magnified 370 diameters (Henle). A, cells still cohering, seen on their surface ; a, nucleus indistinctly seen. In the other cells the nucleus is con- cealed by the pigment granules. B, two cells seen in profile ; a, the outer or posterior part containing scarcely any pigment.