209 GLANDS OF MUCOUS MEMBRANES. and simple, others larger and compound or cleft into secondary papillae. They serve various purposes ; some of them no doubt minister to the senses of taste and touch, many appear to have chiefly a mechanical office, while others would seem intended to give greater extension to the surface of the corium for the production of a thick coating of epithelium. The villi are most fully developed on the mucous coat of the small intestines. Being set close together like the pile of velvet, they give to the parts of the membrane which they cover the aspect usually denominated " villous." They are in reality little elevations or processes of the superficial part of the corium, covered with epithelium, and containing blood-vessels and lacteals, which are thus favourably disposed for absorbing nutrient matters from the intestine. The more detailed description of the papillae and villi belongs to the special anatomy of the parts where they occur. In some few portions of the mucous membrane the surface is marked with fine ridges which intersect each other in a reticular manner, and thus inclose larger and smaller polygonal pits or recesses. This peculiar character of the surface of the membrane, which has been termed " alveolar," is seen very distinctly in the gall-bladder, and on a finer scale in the vesiculae seminales; still more minute alveolar recesses with intervening ridges may be discovered with a lens on the mucous membrane of the stomach (fig. 139). Glands of mucous menibranes.—Many, indeed most, of the glands of the body pour their secretions into the great passages lined by mucous membranes ; but there are certain small glands which may be said to belong to the membrane itself, inasmuch as they are found in numbers over large tracts of that membrane, and yield mucus, or special secre- tions known to be derived from particular portions of the membrane. Omitting local peculiarities the glands referred to may be described as of three kinds, viz. :— 1. Tubular glands. — These are minute tubes formed by recesses or inversions of the basement membrane, and lined with epithelium. They are usually placed perpendicularly to the surface, and often very close together, and they constitute the chief substance of the mucous membrane in those parts where they abound, its apparent thickness depend- ing on the length of the tubes, which differs considerably in different regions. The tubes open by one end on the surface ; the other end is closed, and is either simple or cleft into two or more branches. The tubular glands are abundant in the stomach, and in the small and large intestines, where they are comparatively short and known as the crypts of Lieberkiihn. They exist also in considerable numbers in the mucous membrane of the uterus. 2. Small comjmmd glands.—Under this head are here comprehended minute but still true compound glands of the racemose kind, with single branched ducts of various lengths, which open on different parts of the membrane. Numbers of these, yielding a mucous secretion, open into the mouth and windpipe. To the naked eye they have the appearance VOL. II. P Fig. 139. Fig. 139.—Portion of Mu- cous Membrane of the Stomach, slightly mag- nified. The alveolar pits and small orifices of the tubular glands are seen (after Ecker).