THE STOMACH. 354 form, for, though simple near their orifices, they may, towards their deep or closed extremity, be cleft into two or three, or even eventually into six or eight branches (figs. 248 and 249). The glands have exter- nally a basement membrane, composed of flattened cells joined edge to edge, and with processes which on the one side join the retiform tissue of the mucous membrane, and on the other side, more delicate, extend in amongst and support the enclosed epithelium cells.* Two kinds of glands are distinguished,, which differ from one another both in the character of the enclosed cells, and, it is believed, in the nature of their secretion. Those of the one kind (fig. 249, m), which are simpler in structure and fewer in number than the others, and are found most numerously in the pyloric region, are lined throughout by an epithelium which is continuous with and in many respects similar to the columnar epithelium which covers the general surface of the stomach between the mouths of the glands. In the deeper parts, however, of these pyloric (/lands—or mucous glands as they have been termed from the supposed nature of their secretion—the lining cells become shorter and more cubical, and according to Ebstein approach in character to the " central" cells of the other glands. These, which are commonly known aspeptic glands, are lined to a variable depth by the colum- nar epithelium cells (fig. 248, a), which are then (at the neck of the gland) suc- ceeded by large spheroidal or ovoidal coarsely granular cells, which have long- been known as " peptic " cells (fig. 248, c -T fig. 249, p, 1). Towards the bottom (or fundus) of the gland, however, the peptic cells do not form a regular lining, but are found only here and there (fig. 249, v,p, 2) producing generally an outward bulging of the basement membrane where they occur; the rest of the tube is here occu- pied, except a small channel left along the middle, by finely granular, polyhedral or angular cells, which, from their position, may be termed the " central" cells of the gland (h). According to Heidenhain, these extend up into the neck of the gland, and become continuous with the columnar epithelium there. It is only quite recently that attention has been more especially drawn to these central cells (Heidenhain, Rollett). From the changes which they appear to undergo during the functional activity of the stomach, Heidenhain was led to. infer that it is these cells, and not those ordinarily known as peptic cells, which are concerned in the secretion of pepsin, hence he named them the principal cells * These sustentacular processes are much more developed in the gastric glands of some animals (porpoise, pig) than in those of the human stomach (F. E. Schultze, Heidenhain). Fig. 248. Fig. 248. — Peptic Gastric Glands fkom the Dog's Stomach, magnified (from Frey). 1, longitudinal view ; a, mouth of the gland ; b, one of the first tubular divisions of the gland ; c, the single tubes partly occupied by the peptic cells ; d, some of the cells pressed out; 2, cross section near the mouth, showing the epithelial lining ; 3, cross section of the simple tubes, near the neck of the gland.