GENERAL PHENOMENA OF DEVELOPMENT. 689 SHORT OUTLINE OF THE MORE GENERAL PHENOMENA OF THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE OVUM. Distinction of Embryonic and Peripheral Phenomena.—From what has gone before it will be seen that the fundamental phenomena of development in the ovum consist essentially in changes which take place in the several layers of the blastoderm. Considered individually and minutely, they are mainly of the nature of cell multiplication and cell differentiation. Regarded as a whole they may be placed under two divisions, according as 1st, they have their seat in the parts from which the future embryo is formed, and are therefore intra-emlryonic, or, 2nd, are extra-embryonic, and connected with the production of other parts, having usually a membranous form, which surround the embryo within the ovum, and form principally the amnion, yolk-sac, allantois, ■and chorion. It is to be remarked, however, that although in the progress of development all these membranes are mainly peripheral or extra-embryonic in their situation, they are not entirely so in their origin, for one of them—the allantois—springs originally from a part within the body of the embryo ; and all of them, in mammals at least, by the original continuity of the blastoderm, are necessarily united at certain places with parts of the embryo. Hence they have been called foetal appendages or foetal membranes. Fig. 499. A B Fig. 499.—Ovum of the Rabbit from the Uterus (from Kolliker after Bischofl'). The ovum was about one seventh of an inch in diameter ; a, the remains of the zona pelhicida or external membrane ; b, the vesicular blastoderm ; c, the germinal area : d, the outer limb of the double layer. It is also to be held in remembrance that in birds, the blastoderm, which is originally restricted to the comparatively narrow limits of the cicatncula, extends itself rapidly in the earlier periods of incubation over the surface of the yolk ; while in mammals, the whole yolk is from the first covered by the vesicular blastoderm directly resulting from segmen- tation. In both, however, there may be distinguished a central and peripheral region of the blastoderm, and to the central part, as being the more immediate seat of the development of the embryo and its organs, without attempting to define very closely its limits, the name of Y Y 2