CEREBRO-SPINAL NERVOUS CENTRE. 695 spinal nervous centre ; the lower forming the walls of the body which enclose the great nutritive viscera in the thoracic, abdominal and pelvic divisions of the trunk ;—along with which may be associated the parts which form the face and jaws, and which enclose the cavities of the nose, mouth, and pharynx, including in their substance the hyoid bone and its accompanying branchial arches. The Cerebrospinal nervous Centre.—The brain and spinal cord have at first together the form of an elongated tube, of which the primary wall is of nearly equal thickness throughout. The cylindrical portion in the region of the protovertebras forms the spinal cord. In the dilated cephalic portion, constituting the rudimentary brain, there is from a very early period a partial division into three portions by slight intervening constrictions of the wall of the medullary tube. These constitute the three primary encephalic vesicles, and give rise in the next stage of development to the five fundamental portions of the brain usually recognised by embryologists and comparative anatomists, viz., forebrain, interbrain, midbrain, hindbrain and afterbrain. The general cavity enclosed by the inflection and union of the medullary plates constitutes the mesial ventricles of the brain and the canal of the spinal cord. Fig. 506. VJl — vm Fig. 506.—Magnified side view of the Head and Upper Part of the Body of an Embryo-Chick of the Fourth Day (adapted from Remak and Huxley). 1, chorda dorsalis; 2, three of the upper primitive cervical vertebrae; CVone of the vesicles of the prosencephalon, with the nasal fossa be- low ; C2, vesicle of the thalamencephalon, with the eye below it ; C3, the middle cerebral vesicle ; C4, the cerebellum, between which and the cer- vical vertebras is the medulla oblongata. At the anterior extremity of the chorda dorsalis, where it reaches the post-sphenoid, is seen the rect- angular bend of the middle of the cranium, which takes place at the sella turcica ; and in front of this, towards the eye, the pointed infun- dibulum ; V, the rudiment of the trigeminus nerve ; VII, the facial ; VIII, the vagus ; IX, the hypoglossal; in front and below these numbers respectively, first, the upper and lower jaw, with the first cleft, which becomes the meatus auditorius externus ; and lower down the second, third, and fourth arches and clefts in succession ; in front of these the aortic bulb attaches the heart; between VII aud VIII, the auditory vesicle. The Nerves.—The peripheral nerves are formed, quite independently of the nerve centres, in mesoblastic elements along with the vascular and other tissue composing the parts in which they are distributed. The anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves and the roots of the cranial nerves (excepting the optic, which has a special connection with the brain) probably arise as outgrowths from the medullary wall of the cerebro-spinal centres. Organs of the Senses.—To the earliest period also belongs the formation of the rudiments of the principal organs of the senses, viz., the eye, ear and nose. The mode of origin differs, however, in the three. In the eye, which is the earliest to appear, the retina, or nervous part, is an extension from the anterior encephalic vesicle, while the lens is derived by development from an involuted portion of the