273 THE LUNGS. Pulmonary vessels.—The capillary network of the pulmonary vessels (figs. 186 and 187) is spread beneath the epithelium of the air- cells, and is found wherever the finest air-tubes have lost their cylin- drical character, and become beset with alveoli. Around the exterior of each alveolus there is an arterial circle, which communicates freely with neighbouring circles, as may be seen near the surface of the lung. From these circular vessels, which vary in diameter from y^^th to ■g^¥th of an inch, the capillary network arises, and covers the bottom of each alveolus, passing also into the interalveolar septa between the walls of adjacent air-cells, and surrounding the mouths of these. As was pointed out by Rainey, the capillary network, in the partitions between contiguous alveoli, is single in the lungs of man and mammalia, although it forms a double layer in the lungs of reptiles. The capillaries are very fine, measuring, in injected specimens, from -25Votn to ^oVoth °f an mcn ; tne network is so close that the meshes are scarcely wider than the vessels themselves. Those vessels which lie nearest to the mouths of the alveoli are observed arching and coiled over and amongst the elastic fibres found in the interalveolar septa. The capillaries are very superficial, being covered only by the thin layer of tesselated epithelium above mentioned. The branches of the pulmonary artery accompany the bronchial tubes, but they subdivide more frequently, and are much smaller, especially in their remote ramifications. They ramify without anastomoses, and at length terminate upon the walls of the air-cells and on those of the bronchia in the fine and dense capillary network, from which the radicles of the pulmonary veins arise. The smaller branches of these veins, especially near the surface of the lung, frequently do not accompany the bronchia and arterial branches, but are found to run alone for a short distance through the substance of the organ, finally joining some deeper vein which passes by the side of a bronchial tube, and also forming, according to Rossignol, frequent lateral communications. The veins coalesce into large branches, which at length accom- pany the arteries, and thus proceed to the root of the lung. In their course through the lung, the artery is usually found above and in front of a bronchial tube, and the vein below. The pulmonary vessels differ from the systemic in regard to their contents, inasmuch as the arteries convey dark blood, whilst the veins carry red blood. The pulmonary veins, unlike the other veins of the body, are not more capacious than their corresponding arteries ; indeed, according to Winslow, Santorini, Haller, and others, they are somewhat less so. These veins have no valves. Lastly, it may be remarked that, whilst the arteries of different lobules are independent (except where a branch of artery supplies two or three lobules) their veins freely anastomose. The "bronchial vessels.—The bronchial arteries and veins, which are much smaller than the pulmonary vessels, carry blood for the nutrition of the lung. The bronchial arteries, from one to three in number for each lung, arise from the aorta, or from an intercostal arteiy, and follow the divisions of the air-tubes through the lung. They are ultimately dis- tributed in three ways : (1) many of their branches ramify in the bronchial lymphatic glands, the coats of the large blood-vessels, and in the fibrous and muscular walls of the large and small air-tubes, and give supply to a copious capillary plexus in the bronchial mucous mem-