2 GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS ON THE TEXTURES. some are found in nearly every organ ; such is the case with the con- nective tissue, which serves as a binding material to hold together the other tissues which go to form an organ; the vessels, which convey fluids for the nutrition of the other textures, and the nerves, which establish a mutual dependence among different organs, imparting to them sensibility, and governing their movements. These were named by Bichat the " general systems." Others again, as the cartilaginous and osseous, being confined to a limited number or to a particular class of organs, he named " particular systems." Lastly, there are some tissues of such limited occurrence that it has appeared more convenient to leave them out of the general enumeration altogether, and to defer the consideration of them until the particular organs in which they are found come to be treated of. Accordingly, the tissues peculiar to the crystalline lens, the teeth, and some other parts, though equally independent textures with those above enumerated, are for the reason assigned not to be described in this part of the work. Structural Elements.—It is further to be observed, that the anatomical constituents of the body above enumerated are by no means to be regarded as simple structural elements; on the contrary, many of them are complex in constitution, being made up of several more simple tissues. The blood-vessels, for instance, are composed of several coats of different structure, and some of these coats consist of more than one tissue. They are properly rather organs than textures, although they are here included with the latter in order that their general structure and properties may be considered apart from their local distri- bution ; but indeed it may be remarked, that the distinction between textures and organs has not in general been strictly attended to by anatomists. The same remark applies to mucous membrane and the tissue of the glands, which structures, as commonly understood, are highly complex. Were we to separate every tissue into the simplest parts which possess assignable form, we should resolve the whole into a very few constructive elements. PHYSICAL PROPERTIES. The animal tissues, like other forms of matter, are endowed with various physical properties, such as consistency, density, colour, and the like. Of these the most interesting to the physiologist is the pro- perty of imbibing fluids, and of permitting fluids to pass through their substance, which is essentially connected with some of the most im- portant phenomena that occur in the living body, and seems indeed to be indispensable for the maintenance and manifestation of life. All the soft tissues contain water, some of them more than four-fifths of their weight ; this they lose by drying, and with it their softness and flexibility, and so shrink up into smaller bulk and become hard, brittle, and transparent; but when the dried tissue is placed in contact with water, it greedily imbibes the fluid again, and recovers its former size, weight, and mechanical properties. The imbibed water is no doubt partly contained mechanically in the interstices of the tissue, and retained there by capillary attraction, like water in moist sand- stone or other inorganic porous substances ; but the essential part of the process of imbibition by an animal tissue is not to be ascribed to mere porosity, for the fluid is not merely lodged between the fibres or laminas, or in the cavities of the texture; a part, probably the chief part, is incorporated with the matter which