594 THE EYE. these parts the cell-spaces of the tissue are found. These cell-spaces, which are readilv demonstrated by staining the tissue with nitrate of silver, but also make their ap- pearance after a time in the fresh tissue without the addition of any reagent (fig. 401), are flattened conformably with the lamellae, are of an irregularly stellate figure, and freely communicate by their offsets both with others on the same plane and with those above and below. The regularity of arrangement which principally characterises them as compared with the cell-spaces of connective tissue elsewhere is no doubt dependent on the laminated structure of the cornea. The corpuscles of the tissue— corneal corpuscles—lie within these cell-spaces, corresponding generally with them in form, but without entirely filling them, the room left serving for the passage of lymph and leucocytes. The protoplasm of the corpuscles is clear and hyaline, except in the neighbourhood of the large nucleus, where it is granular ; they send long branching processes along the anastomosing canals of the cell-spaces, which in some cases appear to join with those of neighbouring corpuscles. In ver- tical sections they appear fusiform (fig. 400, c), but horizontal sections show them to be flattened conformably with the surface. Examined on the warm stage, the corpuscles are said to exhibit slow amoeboid movements in the form of protraction and retraction of their processes. These, however, are not to be confounded with the more active move- ments of leucocytes which may be traversing the space. In the human cornea the cell-spaces can be filled with, fluid, injection by sticking- the muzzle of a fine syringe into the [tissue, and employing a very low pressure ; in this way a network of anastomosing- stellate figures is obtained (Eecklinghausen's canals) : if, however, the injection-fluid be too consistent, or if too great force be employed, the injection becomes extravasated in the inter- stices of the fibril bundles, the direction of which it takes ; and the appearance is produced of minute swollen tubular passages running at right angles to one another in the different layers (Bowman's corneal tubes). This appearance may still more readily be obtained if air is injected into the tissue instead of mercuiy (the fluid used by Bowman), and it is seen that the injection always stops at the margin of the cornea, where the tissue becomes denser as it passes into the sclerotic, whereas Eecklinghausen's canals are continued into the cell-spaces of the latter. The part of the cornea immediately beneath the anterior epithelium, for a thickness of from ^ to x^y o °f an mcn> ig denser than the rest of the tissue, and entirely free from corpuscles (fig. 400, 2). It was named the anterior elastic lamina by Bowman, but appears not to differ materially in structure from the rest of the corneal substance, fibres from which may be seen passing obliquely towards, and becoming lost in it (binding fibres) (fig. 400, a). Fig. 401. Fig. 401.—Cell-spaces of the Cornea ; Man (Waldeyer). Highly Magnified. The figure is taken from a fresh pre- paration examined in aqueous humour. In each of the two lower spaces a corneal corpuscle is represented as partially filling the space.