543 THE CEREBRUM. terior inferior lobe ; 4, lobulus gracilis ; 5, biventral lobe ; 6, amygdaloid lobe. middle of the white substance of the hemisphere of the brain, whilst a part comes to the surface in the body and anterior cornu of the lateral ventricle. This intraventricular portion of the corpus striatum (^nucleus caudatus) is of a pyriform shape, its larger end being turned forwards, and its narrow end being directed outwards and backwards, so that the optic thalami of the two sides are received between the diverging corpora striata. On cutting into it, there may be seen at some depth from the surface white fibres, which are prolonged from the corresponding cere- bral peduncle, and give it the streaked appearance from which it has received its name. The extraventricular portion of the corpora striata, nucleus lenticularis, is separated from the intraventricular part by a layer of white substance, Fig. 384. Fig. 384.—Right Half op the Encephalic Peduncle and Cerebellum: as seen from the inside of a Median Section (Allen Thomson after Reichert). II, right optic nerve ; II' optic commissure divided ; III, right third nerve ; VI, sixth nerve ; V 3, third ventricle ; Th, back part of the thalamus opticus ; H, section of the pituitary body ; A, corpus albicans ; P, pineal gland ; c a, points by a lower line to the anterior commissure divided, and by an upper line to the divided anterior pillar of the fornix; I c, lamina cinerea ; i, infundibulum (cavity) ; t c, tuber cinereum ; /, mark of the anterior pillar of the fornix descending in the wall of the third ventricle ; c m, commissure mollis ; s p, stria pinealis or peduncle of pineal gland ; c p, posterior com- missure, above it the peduncle of the pineal gland, and below it th» upper end of the passage to the fourth ventricle ; Q, corpora quadrigemina (section) ; a s, aqueduct of Sylvius near the fourth ventricle ; P V, pons Varolii divided in the middle ; M, medulla oblongata ; p a, right anterior pyramid ; p d, decussating bands cut across ; p p, posterior pyramids ; c, central canal, divided, with grey substance surrounding it. In the cerebel- lum, a v, stem of white substance in the centre of the middle lobe of the cerebellum, ramifying towards the arbor vita? ; s v, superior vermiform process or vertical portion of the middle lobe ; s c, single folium, which passes across between the posterior superior lobes, c', the folia, which unite the posterior inferior lobes ; p, pyramid ; u, uvula ; n, nodule ; 1, part of the laminae of the square lobe ; 2, posterior superior lobe ; 3, pos-