INTERIOR OF THE LARYNX. 285 crico-arytenoid ligament on each side, arising from the cricoid, and inserted into the inner and back part of the base of the arytenoid cartilage. The summits of the arytenoid cartilages and the cornicula laryngis have usually a fibrous and synovial capsule to connect them, but it is frequently indistinct. INTERIOR OP The cavity of the larynx is divi( partment by the comparatively narrow aperture of the glottis, or rima glottidis, the margins of which, in their two anterior thirds, are formed by the lower or true vocal cords; and the whole laryngeal cavity, viewed in transverse verti- cal section (fig. 190), thus presents the appearance of an hour-glass, or of two funnels meeting together by their narrow ends. The upper compartment communicates with the pharynx by the superior aper- ture of the larynx, and contains immediately above the rima glot- tidis the ventricles (s) and the upper or false vocal cords. The lower compartment passes inferi- orly into the tube of the windpipe without any marked constriction or limitation between them. The whole of the interior of the larynx is lined by mucous membrane. The superior aperture of the larynx, by which it communicates with the pharynx, is a triangular opening, wide in front and narrow behind, the lateral margins of which slope obliquely downwards and backwards. It is bounded in front by the epiglottis (fig. 191, A, e, and fig. 192, a), behind by the summits of the arytenoid carti- lages (fig. 191, B, a) and cornicula laryngis (s) with the angular border of mucous membrane crossing the median space between them, and on the sides by two folds of mu- cous membrane, the aryteno-epi- glottidean folds, which, enclosing a few ligamentous and muscular fibres and the cartilages of Wris- berg, pass forwards from the tip THE LARYNX ed into an upper and a lower com- Fig. 190. Fig. 190.—Anterior Half op a Trans- verse Vertical Section through the Larynx near its middle (Allen Thomson). 1, upper division of the laiyngeal cavity ; 2, central portion; 3, lower division, continued into 4, part of the trachea ; e, the free part of the epiglottis; e', its cushion ; h, the divided great cornua of the hyoid bone; lit, thyro-hyoid mem- brane ; t, cut surface of the divided thyroid cartilage; c, that of the cricoid cartilage ; r, first ring of the trachea ; ta, thyro-aryte- noid muscle ; vl, thyro-arytenoid ligament in the true vocal cord covered by mucous membrane at the rima glottidis ; s, the ventricle ; above this, the superior or false cords ; s', the sacculus or pouch opened on the right side. ; of the arytenoid cartilages and