THE VULVA. no corpus spongiosum or urethra connected with it below. It consists of two corpora cavernosa, which are attached by crura to the rami of the ischium and pubes, and are united together by their flattened inner surfaces so as to form an incomplete pectiniform septum. The body of the clitoris, which is about an inch and a half long, but is hidden beneath the mucous membrane, is surmounted by a small glans, con- sisting of spongy erectile tissue. The glans is imperforate, highly sensitive, and surrounded superiorly by a membranous fold, analogous to the prepuce. There is a small suspensory ligament attached to the upper border, like that of the penis, and in front of this the clitoris is dependent. The two ischio-cavernous muscles, named in the female erectores clitoridis, have the same connections as in the male, being- inserted into the crura of the corpora cavernosa. Uympliae.—From the glans and preputial covering of the clitoris two narrow pendulous folds of mucous membrane pass backwards for about an inch and a half, one on each side of the entrance to the vagina. These are the nymphm (labia interna v. minora). Their inner surface is continuous with that of the vagina ; the external insensibly passes into that of the labia majora. They contain vessels between the lamina? of tegumentary membrane, but, according to Kobelt, no erectile plexus ; indeed, they would seem to correspond to the cutaneous cover- ing of the male urethra (supposed to be split open below), while the erectile structure corresponding to the bulb and spongy body, in two separate right and left halves, lies deeper, as will be presently explained. (Kobelt, Die mannlichen und weiblichen Wohllustorgane, 1844.) Fig. 326.—Lateral View of the Erectile Fig. 326. Structures of the External Organs in the Female (from Kobelt). § The blood-vessels have been injected, and the skin and mucous membrane have been removed ; a, bulbus vestibuli ; c, plexus of veins named pars intermedia ; e, glans clitoridis ; /, body of the clitoris ; It, dorsal vein; I, right cms clitoridis ; in, vestibule ; n, right gland of Bartholin. Vestibule.—Between the nym- phse is the angular interval called the vestibule, in which is situated the circular orifice of the urethra, or meatus urinarius, about an inch below the clitoris and just above the entrance to the vagina. The membrane which surrounds this orifice is rather prominent in most instances, so as readily to indicate its situation. Orifice of the Vagina.—Immediately below the orifice cf the urethra is the entrance to the vagina, which, in the virgin, is usually more or less narrowed by the hymen, This is a thin duplicature of the mucous membrane, placed at the entrance to the vagina ; its form varies very considerably in different persons, but is most frequently semilunar, the concave margin being directed forwards towards the