297 THE THYMUS GLAND. perfectly distinct from each other. Each vesicle consists of a simple basement membrane (fig. 199 b), with a single epithelial layer of cells (c) lining its inner surface ; at least in the foetus and young subject, for it would appear that the cells for the most part become detached in the progress of growth. The fluid coagulates by the action of heat or of alcohol, preserving, however, its transparency. One of the most frequent pathological changes to which the thyroid body is subject consists in the accumulation within its vesicles of a gelatinous-looking substance (colloid): this may occur without giving rise to very great enlargement of these vesicles, but in certain forms of goitre it distends them to an enormous degree. Vessels and nerves.—The arteries of the thyroid body are the superior and inferior thyroids of each side, to which is sometimes added a fifth vessel, the thyroklea ima of Neubauer and Erdmann. The arteries are remarkable for their large relative size, and for their frequent and large anastomoses ; they terminate in a capillary network, upon the outside of the closed vesicles. The veins, which are also large, ultimately form plexuses on the surface, from which a superior, middle, and inferior thyroid vein are formed on each side. The superior and middle thyroid veins open into the internal jugular ; the inferior veins issue from a plexus formed in front of the trachea, and open on the right side into the superior cava, and on the left into the brachio-cephalic vein. The lymphatics of the thyroid body form numerous and large anastomosing trunks, both at the surface of the organ and throughout its substance ; they originate, according to the observations of Frey, in the connective tissue which unites the gland-vesicles, with the cavity of which they appear not to be in communication. The nerves are derived from the middle and inferior cervical ganglia of the sympathetic. They accompany the blood-vessels ; and have here and there ganglion-cells in their course ; their mode of ending is unknown. Development.—Remak states that the thyroid body is developed from the anterior wall of the pharynx. In a human embryo at the third month, Kolliker found the thyroid body consisting of isolated vesicles, with rounded cells in their interior. The multiplication of these vesicles takes place, according to Kolliker, either by constriction and subsequent division of one vesicle into two, or by a process of gemmation. The transverse part of the gland is said to be developed subsequently to the two lateral lobes. In the foetus, and during early infancy, this organ is relatively larger than in after-life ; its proportion to the weight of the body in the new-born infant being that of 1 to 240 or 400, whilst at the end of three weeks it becomes only 1 to 11 GO, and in the adult 1 to 1800 (Krause). In advanced life the thyroid body is liable to become indurated, and frequently contains earthy deposit; its vesicles also attain a very large size. THE THYMUS GLAND. The thymus gland or body is a temporary organ which reaches its greatest size at about the end of the second year of life, after which period it ceases to grow, and is gradually reduced to a mere vestige. Its function is not fully understood, although it is probable that it is in some way connected with the elaboration of the blood in infancy. "When examined in its mature state in an infant under two years of age, it appears as a narrow elongated glandular-looking body, situated partly in the thorax, and partly in the lower region of the neck: below, it lies in the anterior mediastinal space, close behind the sternum, and in front of the great vessels and pericardium ; above, it extends upwards upon the trachea in the neck. Its colour is greyish, with a pinkish tinge ; its consistence is soft and pulpy, and its surface appears dis- tinctly tabulated. It consists of two lateral lodes, which touch each