BLOOD-VESSELS. 180 Erectile, or cavernous tissue.—By this term is understood a peculiar structure, 1'orming the principal part of certain organs which are capable of being rendered turgid, or erected, by distension with blood. It consists of dilated and freely intercommunicating branches of veins, into which arteries pour their blood, occupying the areolae of a network formed by fibrous, elastic, and probably con- tractile bands, named trabeculas, and enclosed in a distensible fibrous envelope. This peculiar arrangement of the blood-vessels scarcely deserves to be regarded as constituting a distinct texture, though reckoned as such by some writers ; it is restricted to a very few parts of the body, and in these is not altogether uniform in character ; the details of its structure will, therefore, be considered with the special description of the organs in which it occurs. DEVELOPMENT OP BLOOD-VESSELS. The first vessels which appear are formed within the ovum, in the germinal membrane, and the process subsequently goes on in growing parts of the animal body. New vessels, also, are formed in the healing of wounds and sores, Fig. 121. m the organisation of effused lymph, in the restoration of lost parts, and in the pro- duction of adventitious growths. The process is in every case essentially the same, although more or less modified according to cir- cumstances. The first vessels of the embryo chick, those, namely,, which produce the vascular area, originate from nu- cleated cells belonging to the middle germinal layer. Within these cells vacuoles are formed and, increasing in size, a cavity filled with fluid is in this way produced in the interior of the cell (fig. 121, a). Blood-corpus- cles (d) are found at an early period within the cavity : the mode in which they become developed has been already described (p. 41). The cells, whilst these changes are going on, increase largely in size so as to> form vesicles, visible to the naked eye as minute reddish specks, which have been known since the time of Pander as " blood-islands." They are at first isolated, as the name implies, but after a time send out pro- cesses which unite with those of neighbouring cells, and the cavities becoming extended into these processes a" network of vessels is by this means produced.* The wall(£) of these primary vessels is therefore composed at first merely of the protoplasm of the original embryonic cells with a few * We are here mainly following Klein's description (Wiener Sitzungsb., lxiv. 1870), but according to the more recent account given by Balfour (Quarterly Journal of Microscopic Science, July, 1873), the cells first unite by means of processes into a proto- plasmic network, within the substance of which, by the multiplication of the cell-nuclei, blood-corpuscles subsequently become developed. Fig. 121.—Cells from Middle Layer of Chick's Blastoderm undergoing development into Blood-Vessels. Magnified. d, blood-corpuscles (from Klein).