OSSIFICATION IN MEMBRANE. 95 Fig. 54. integuments, the dura mater, and an intermediate membranous layer, which differs from cartilage in its intimate structure as well as in its more obvious characters, and in which the ossification proceeds. The commencing ossification of the parietal bone, which may be selected as an example, appears to the naked eye in form of a network in which the little bars or spicula of bone run in various directions, and meet each other at short distances. By-and-by the ossified part, becoming extended, gets thicker and closer in texture, especially towards the centre, and the larger bony spicula which now appear, run out in radiating lines to the cir- cumference. The ossifica- tion continues thus to spread and consolidate un- til the parietal meets the neighbouring bones, with which it is at length united by a suture. The figure (54) repre- sents the parietal bone of an embryo sheep about two inches and a half long, and shows the character of the ossification as it appears when the object is mag- nified about twelve dia- meters. The bone is formed in membrane as in the human foetus, but a thin plate of cartilage rises up on its inside from the base of the skull. The ossifica- tion, however, is decidedly unconnected with the car- tilage, and goes on in a membrane lying outside of it. When further examined with a higher magnifying power, the tissue or mem- brane in which the ossifi- cation is proceeding, ap- pears to be made up of fibres and granular cor- puscles, with a soft amor- phous or faintly granular uniting matter, and, in point of structure, might not unaptly be compared to connective tissue in a certain stage of develop- ment. The corpuscles are large, mostly two or three times the size of blood-corpuscles ; their substance is granular in character, and, espe- cially in specimens preserved in spirit, usually ,hides the nucleus. They are densely packed all over the area of ossification, covering the bony spicula, and filling up their interstices ; so that, to bring the growing parts into view, the corpuscles must be brushed away with a hair pecnil, ■or removed by short immersion of the specimen in weak solution of soda. Fig. 54.— Parietal Bone op an Embryo Sheep. Size op the Embryo, %\ inches. The small upper figure represents tlie bone of the natural size, the larger figure is magnified about 12 diameters. The curved line, a, b, marks the height to which the subjacent cartilaginous lamella ex- tended. A few insulated particles of bone are seen near the circumference, an appearance which is quite common at this stage.