3 e 2 PRIMITIVE FORM OF THE HEART, 7S5 vessels, one of which arches over each side of the primitive pharynx and turns backwards below the proto-vertebraa to form one of the two primitive aortic tubes. From each of these last the omphalo-mesenteric arteries pass off into the vascular area. According- to recent observations by Kolliker and by Hensen (loc. cit.) a still earlier condition of the heart has been perceived in the embryo of mammals, in which there are two separate tubes hollowed out of the lateral parts of the cephalic fold. Each of these tubes is connected with a vein or entering- vessel posteriorly, and an artery or out-going vessel anteriorly : these slowly come to- gether and unite by fusion in the middle, in a limited space at first, and then more and more till the single tubular heart results. Each tube is in relation with the pleui-operitoneal cavity of its own side, and when the median fusion takes place, the union of these two becomes the pericardium. Fig. 584. N.C. \ Fig. 584.—Diagrammatic longitudinal section through the Axis of an Embryo. The section is supposed to be made at a time when the head-fold has commenced, but the tail-fold has not yet appeared. A, epiblast ; B, mesoblast ; C, hypoblast ; FSo, fold of the somatopleure ; Sp, and FSp, fold of the splanchnopleure; Am, commencing (head) fold of the amnion ; NC, neural canal, closed in front, but still open behind ; Ch, noto- chord, in front uncleft mesoblast in the base of the cranium ; D, the commencing foregut, or alimentary canal ; lit, heart; pp, pleuro-peritoneal cavity. The rudimental heart in the form now described, exists in the chick at the thirty-sixth hour of incubation, and already, while still consisting of formative cells not differing greatly from those composing the other parts of the mesoblast, begins to exhibit motions of alternating systole and diastole, by slow contractions which begin behind and pass forward to the anterior extremity of the tube ; and a small quantity of imper- fectly formed blood is propelled through the cavity. The elongation which the tubular heart now undergoes causes it to lose the symmetrical form ; and its middle part now becomes detached from the lower side of the alimentary canal, and projects downwards (or forwards in the body) with an inclination to the right side of the embryo. The heart is now found to be surrounded on the ventral aspect by a median cavity, which is a part of the pleuro-peritoneal space inter- vening between the wall of the heart as splanchno-pleure, and the somato-pleure forming the thoracic wall. This cavity becomes the peri- cardial sac. As the development of the tubular heart progresses, the bend