640 THE EAR. VESSELS AND NERVES OP THE TYMPANUM. The arteries of the tympanum, though very small, are numerous, and are derived from branches of the external, and from the internal carotid. The fore part of the cavity is supplied chiefly by the tympanic branch of the in- ternal maxillary, which enters by the fissure of Glaser. The back part of the cavity including the mastoid cells, receives its arteries from the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular artery, which is conducted to the tympanum by the aqueduct of Fallopius. These two arteries form by their anastomosis a vascular circle round the margin of the membrana tympani. The smaller arteries of the tympanum are, the -petrosal branch of the middle meningeal, which enters through the hiatus Fallopii; branches through the bone from the internal carotid artery, furnished from that vessel whilst in the carotid canal; and occasionally a twig along the Eustachian tube from the ascending pharyngeal artery. The veins of the tympanum empty their contents through the middle menin- geal and pharyngeal veins, and through a plexus near the articulation of the lower jaw, into the internal jugular vein. Herves.—The tympanum contains numerous nerves ; for, besides those which supply the parts of the middle ear itself, there are several which serve merely to connect nerves of different origin. The lining membrane of the tympanum is supplied by filaments from the tympanic plexus, which occupies the shallow grooves on the inner wall of the cavity, particularly on the surface of the promontory. The tympanic plexus (fig. 451) is formed by the communications between, 1st, the tympanic branch (nerve of Jacobson) from the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal ; 2nd, a filament from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic ; 3rd, a branch which joins the great super- ficial petrosal nerve ; 4th and lastly, the small superficial petrosal nerve, from the otic ganglion. Numerous ganglion cells are present both in the uniting cords and also at the points of junction of the plexus. Fig. 451. Fig. 451.—View of the Tvmpanic Plexus op Nerves (after Hirschfeld and Le- veille). 6, splieno-palatine ganglion ; 7, Vidian nerve ; 8, great superficial petrosal nei*ve ; 9, carotid branch of tlie Vidian nerve ; 10, part of the sixth nerve connected by twigs with the sympathetic ; 11, superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic ; 12, carotid branch ; 13, facial nerve ; 14, glosso- pharyngeal nerve ; 15, nerve of Jacobson ; 16, its twig to the sympathetic ; 17, fila- ment to the fenestra rotunda ; 18, filament to the Eustachian tube ; 19, filament to the fenestra ovalis ; 20, union of external deep petrosal nerve with the lesser super- ficial petrosal; 21, internal deep petrosal twig uniting with the great superficial petrosal. The nerve of Jacobson (fig. 451,15) enters the tympanum by a small foramen near its floor, which forms the upper end of a short canal in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, beginning at the base of the skull between the carotid foramen and the jugular fossa. The nerve from the carotid plexus is above and in front of this, and passes through the bone directly from the carotid canal. The branch to the great superficial petrosal nerve (fig. 451, 21) is lodged in a canal which opens on the inner wall of the tympanum in front of the fenestra