CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF NERVE. 159 whilst it may contain fibres sent by the sympathetic to the spinal nerves or to the spinal cord, must necessarily contain all those which proceed from the cord to the sympathetic, and that, on the other hand, the peripheral division must contain the fibres immediately proceeding- from the sympathetic and distributed peri- pherally with the spinal nerve. It seems on the whole reasonable to conclude that nerve-fibres take their rise in the ganglia both of the cerebro-spinal and sympathetic nerves, and are in both kinds of nerves mixed with fibres of cerebral or spinal origin; that the ganglia are nervous centres which may pro- bably receive through afferent fibres impressions of which we are uncon- scious and reflect these impressional stimuli upon efferent or motor fibres: that perhaps, even, certain motorial stimuli emanate from them; the movements excited by or through the ganglia being always invo- luntary, and affecting chiefly the muscular parts of the viscera, the sanguiferous, and perhaps the absorbent vessels; and that, in fine, the chief purpose served in the animal economy by the ganglia and the gan- glionic nerve fibres, whether existing in acknowledged branches of the sympathetic, or contained in other nerves, is to govern the involuntary, and, for the most part,imperceptible movements of the vascular system, as well as the secretory and nutritive processes, in so far at least as these are not dependent on the brain and spinal cord. CHEMICAL COMPOSITION. The information we possess respecting the chemical composition of nervous matter is for the most part founded on analyses of portions of the brain and spinal cord; but the substance contained in the nerves, which is continuous with that of the brain and cord, and similar in physical characters, appears also, as far as it has been examined, to be of the same general chemical constitution. No very careful comparative analysis has yet been made of the grey and white matter, to say nothing* of the different structural elements of the nervous substance; and indeed it must be remembered, that, in portions of brain subjected to chemical examination, capillary blood-vessels, connective and perhaps other accessory tissues, as well as interstitial fluid, are mixed up in greater or less quantity with the true nervous matter, and must so far affect the result. Like most of the other tissues of the body the nervous substance contains a large proportion of water (from three-fourths to four-fifths of its weight). Of the residue which remains after the removal of this by evaporation or other means the larger part consists of a phosphur- reted fat, which may be obtained crystallized, and in this condition was termed by 0. Liebreich proiagon. The crystalline substance, however, is in reality a mixture of two other substances—lecithin and murm (Hoppe-Seyler)—and doubtless includes the fatty acids which were enumerated by Fremy and others : it appears mainly to compose the medullary sheath of the nerves. Lecithin was first obtained from yelk of egg (by Gobley). It con- tains nearly 4 per cent, of phosphorus, and has a very complex constitu- tion. Neurin, sometimes termed cliolin, is found also in the bile. It possesses basic properties, and is, moreover, said to be one of the pro- ducts of decomposition of lecithin. A substance named Cerebrin is also described as being frequently