SPECIAL CHARACTER OF THE PERMANENT TEETH. 303 Fi/r. 202. adapted for cutting or dividing the food. Their crowns are chisel- shaped (c), and have a sharp horizontal cutting edge, which by con- tinued use is bevelled off behind in the upper teeth, but in the lower ones is worn down in front, where it comes into contact with the over-lapping edges of the upper teeth. Before being sub- jected to wear, the horizontal edge of each incisor is marked by three small prominent points, separated by two slight notches (fig*. 202, d). The anterior sur- face of the crown is slightly convex, and the posterior con- cave. The fang is long, single, conical, and compressed at the sides, where it sometimes though rarely presents a slight longitu- dinal furrow (as in c). The lower incisor teeth are placed vertically in the jaw, but the corresponding upper teeth are directed obliquely forwards. The upper incisors are, on the whole, larger than the lower ones. Of those in the upper jaw the central incisors are the larger; but in the lower jaw, the central incisors are the smaller, and are, indeed, the smallest of all the incisor teeth. The canine teeth, (fig. 203), placed one Fig. 202.—Incisor Teeth op the Upper and Lower Jaws. a, front view of the upper and lower middle incisors ; b, front view of the upper and lower lateral incisors ; c, lateral view of the upper and lower middle incisors, showing the chisel shape of the crown ; a groove is seen marking slightly the fang of the lower tooth; d, the tipper and lower middle incisor teeth before they have been worn, showing the three points on the cutting edge. four in number, are on each side, above and below, next to the lateral incisors. They are larger and stronger than the incisor teeth. The crown is thick and conical, convex in front and hollowed behind, and may be compared to that of a large incisor tooth the angles of which have been removed, so as to leave a single central point or cusp, whence the name cuspidate applied to these teeth. The point always becomes worn down by use. The fang of the canine teeth is single, conical, and compressed at the sides : it is longer than the fangs of any of the other teeth, and is so thick as to cause a corresponding prominence of the alveolar arch : on the sides it is marked by a groove, an indication, as it were, of the cleft or division which appears in the teeth next behind. The upper canines, popularly called the eye-teeth, are larger than the lower, and in consequence of this, as well as of the greater width of the upper range of incisors, they are thrown a little farther outwards than the lower ones. In the dog-tribe, and in the carnivora generally, these teeth acquire a great size, and are fitted for seizing and killing prey, and for gnawing and tearing it when taken as food. The bicuspids, also called premolars, are four in each jaw ; they are shorter and smaller than the canines, next to which they are