300 THE MOUTH. uniform rapidity, for it grows especially during the seventh, eighth, and ninth months of intra-uterine existence. After birth, the thymus, as already stated, continues to grow until near the end of the second year. According to the observations of Haugstedt and Simon, it appears for a short time after birth to increase in weight not merely absolutely, but even faster than the rest of the system, and during the next period only to keep pace with the increase of the body. After the second year it ceases to grow, and becomes gradually converted by the eighth or twelfth year into a fatty mass, the corpuscles disappearing or becoming developed into the cells of adipose tissue. At puberty the thymus is generally reduced to a mere vestige which has entirely lost its original structure, and consists of brownish tissue occupying the upper part of the anterior mediastinum. Occasionally it is still found in good condi- tion at the twentieth year ; but generally only traces of it remain at that time, and these are rarely discoverable beyond the twenty-fifth or thirtieth year. The thymus gland presents no difference in the two sexes, and exists, according to Simon, in all animals breathing by lungs. It appears in all to become even- tually transformed into a mass of fat. OEGANS OF DIGESTION. The digestive apparatus consists mainly of the alimentary canal, to- gether with various glands of which it receives the secretions. The alimentary canal commences at the mouth and terminates at the anus. Its average length is about thirty feet,—about five or six times the length of the body. The part situated in the head and thorax consists of the organs of mastication, insalivation, and deglutition, and comprises the mouthy with the teeth, and salivary glands, the pharynx, and the oesophagus or gullet. The part contained in the abdomen and pelvis consists of the stomach and the small and large intestine. The glands which are most intimately connected with digestion are very numerous small glan- dular organs situated in the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal, and the larger glands, such as the salivary glands, pancreas and liver, whose ducts open on its inner surface. THE MOUTH. The mouth is included between the lips and the throat. Bounded by the lips, cheeks, tongue, and the hard and soft palate, it communicates behind with the pharynx through an opening called the fauces (isthmus faucium). It is lined throughout by a mucous membrane, which is of a pink rosy hue during life, but pale grey after death, and which pre- sents peculiarities of surface and structure to be noticed hereafter. The lips and cheeks are composed externally of skin, and internally of mucous membrane, together with muscles, vessels, and nerves fully described in other parts of this work, some areolar tissue, fat, and numerous small glands. The free border of the lips is protected by a dry mucous membrane, which becomes continuous with the skin, is covered with numerous minute papillse, and is highly sensitive. In some of these papilla? nerve-end-bulbs, approaching in character to tactile corpuscles, are found (see fig. 101 A, p. 148), in others coiled nerve-fibres (Kolliker). On the inner surface of each lip, the mucous membrane forms a fold in the middle line, connecting the lip with the gums of the corresponding jaw. These are the frama or frmiula of the lips : that of the upper lip is the larger.