UTERO GESTATION. 710 which, contains the fluid, is sufficiently obvious in many animals, as, for example, in the sheep or pig. But in the human subject, assuming that the vascular elements of the chorion are derived from the allantois as in animals r which there is no reason to doubt, it has been found difficult to determine the exact manner in which they first pass into the villi, in consequence of the very early time and extreme rapidity of the development of the allantois. But notwithstanding the observations previously mentioned of a nonvascular pediculated vesicle in relation with the allantois, passing from the umbilicus of the embryo into the space between the amnion and chorion ; yet, in the great majority of instances, so rapid is the expansion of the membrane, that even in ova of from three to four weeks old it has been found impossible to trace more than the connection of the pedicle of the allantois through the urachus with the genito-urinary sinus ; and in all the cases which have been observed, already the umbilical vessels are found detached from the deeper mem- brane, and passing widely over the whole interior of the chorion to penetrate everywhere into its villi. We are led thus to suppose that by the early and rapid expansion of the outer layer, or by some other mode of development of its fibrous and vascular elements, the blood-vessels of the human allantois have been brought into combination with the cellular layer of the chorion, and have pene- trated everywhere into its villi, into the whole of which blood-vessels and fibrous elements may at first be traced. According to this view it is to be understood that while the vascular layer of the allantois may thus become widely diffused, the vesicular or deeper layer may have only a comparatively restricted range of development. UTEROGESTATION : PLACENTATION. Incapsulation of the Ovum in the Decidua.—The further history of the chorion may be best given along with that of the structures by which the ovum is fixed in the uterus, and organic union established between it and the maternal system. This union is effected by the close inter- penetration of the vascular villi covering the surface of the chorion with a soft and spongy layer of substance, which is the product of a rapid enlargement or a sort of hypertrophy of the lining membrane of the uterus. To the latter substance the names of decidua and caduca are given, from the circumstance that it is separated from the uterus at birth along with the foetus and its membranes. Not only is the ovum from an early period completely imbedded in a covering of decidua, but there takes place at a somewhat later period of uteroges- tation, in a limited area of one side, a greater enlargement of the vascular chorionic villi, and in close combination with, and surround- ing these villi, a corresponding increased development of the decidual substance, by which there is- produced the large discoid mass of complex structure, named the placenta (or uterine cake), through which the nourishment of the foetus and the aeration of its blood are mainly carried on during the latter three-fourths of the period of uterogestation. This placenta continues to increase in size with the foetus and its membranes, and as pregnancy advances, considerable changes take place in the relations of some of these parts, for the fuller comprehen- sion of which it will be necessary to state the successive steps by which the ovum becomes fixed in the uterine decidua, or incapsidated, and the manner in which the development of the chorion, decidua, and placenta proceeds. Earliest Observed Human Ova.—In two distinct cases of young