STRUCTURE OF THE LOBULES. 387 The lobules of the liver have, throughout its substance, in general the polyhedral form of irregularly compressed spheroids ; but on the surface they are flattened and angular. They are all compactly ar- Fig. 274. Pig. 274.—Section of a Portion of Liver passing Longitudinally through a considerable Hepatic Vein, from the Pig (after Kieman). About 5 Diameters. h, hepatic venous trunk, against which, the sides of the lobules are applied ; h, h, 7i, three sublobular hepatic veins, on which the bases of the lobules rest, and through the coats of which they are seen as polygonal figures ; i, mouth of the intralobular veins, opening into the sublobular veins ; i', intralobular veins shown passing up the centre of some divided lobules ; c, c, walls of the hepatic venous canal, with the polygonal bases of the lobules. ranged round the sides of branches of the hepatic veins (fig. 274), each lobule resting by a smooth surface or base, upon the vein, and being connected with it by a small venous trunklet, which begins in the centre of the lobule, and passes out from the middle of its base to end in the larger subjacent vessel. The small veins proceeding from the centre of the lobules are named the intralobular or central veins («"), and those on which the lobules rest, the sublobular veins (h). If one of these sublobular veins be opened (as in the figure), the bases of the lobules may be seen through the coats of the vein, which are here very thin, presenting a tesselated appearance, each little polygonal space repre- senting the base of a lobule, and having in its centre a small spot, which is the mouth of the intralobular vein (i). Each lobule consists of a mass of cells penetrated from the circum- ference to the centre by a close network of blood capillaries, as well as by the minute capillary commencements of the bile-ducts, with the intervention of little other tissue. For the sake of clearness, the disposition of the vessels of the liver may be considered first.