n BONE. nervous filaments as entering with the arteries of the bone to the spongy and compact tissue. As far, however, as can be judged from observations on man and experiments on the lower animals, the bones, as well as their investing periosteum, are scarcely if at all sensible in the healthy condition, although they are painfully so when inflamed. Some hold that the same is true of the marrow, or rather the medullary mem- brane ; others, among- whom are Duvemey and Bichat, affirm, on the contrary, that the medullary tissue is sensible. They state that, on sawing through the bone of a living animal, and irritating the medullary membrane by passing a probe up the cavity, or by injecting an acrid fluid, very unequivocal signs of pain will be manifested. Beclard, who affirms the same fact, points out a circum- stance which may account for the result occasionally turning out differently,— namely, that when the bone happens to be sawn through above the entrance of the medullary artery, the nerves going along with that vessel are divided, and the marrow consequently rendered insensible, as happens with any other sensible part when its nerves are cut. FORMATION AND GROWTH OP BONE. The foundation of the skeleton is laid at a very early period; for, among the parts that appear soonest in the embryo, we distinguish the rudiments of the vertebrae and base of the skull, which afterwards form the great median column to which the other parts of the bony fabric are appended. But it is by their outward form and situation only, that the parts representing the future bones are then to be recog- nised ; for at that early period they do not differ materially in substance from the other structures of the embryo, being, like these, made up of granular corpuscles or elementary cells, united together by a soft amor- phous matter. Very soon, however, they become cartilaginous, and ossification in due time beginning in the cartilage and continuing to spread from one or from several points, the bone is at length completed. But, while it is true with respect to the bones generally that their ossification commences in cartilage, it is not so in every instance. The tabular bones forming the roof of the skull may be adduced as a decided example to the contrary ; in these the ossification goes on in a membranous tissue quite different in its nature from cartilage; * and even in the long bones, in which ossification undoubtedly commences and to a certain extent proceeds in cartilage, it will be afterwards shown that there is much less of the increment of the bone really owing to that mode of ossification than was at one time generally believed. It is necessary, therefore, to distinguish two species or modes of ossifica- tion, which for the sake of brevity may be called the intramembranous and the intracartilaginous. Ossification in membrane.—The tabular bones of the cranium, as already said, afford an example of this mode of ossification. The base of the skull in the embryo is cartilaginous ; but in the roof, that is to say, the part comprehending the parietal, the upper and greater part of the frontal, and a certain portion of the occipital bones, we find (except where they happen to be commencing muscular fibres) only the * This fact was pointed out and insisted on by Nesbitt, who distinguishes the two different modes of ossification, and so far his views are quite correct.—See his Human Osteogeny. Lond. 1736.