754 DEVELOPMENT OF THE NEKVOUS SYSTEM. of very simple modifications of the primitive medullary tube, it is mainly by an increased thickening of the medullary wall in some of the parts,, and the relative thinning, or even the removal of the substance in others, that the changes accompanying the formation of the cerebral masses are effected, while as a consequence of these and other modifi- cations of form, the several parts of the internal canity or ventricles of the brain acquire the different degrees of expansion and contraction, or the comparatively closed or open condition which they exhibit in after life. Thus the cerebral hemispheres, and corpora striata are the main masses formed by the lateral thickening and expansion of the medullary walls of the procerebrum, while the corpus callosum and fornix are? formed later by a deeper median development in connection with these parts : the thalami optici are the most solid parts of the lower and lateral region of the second rudiment, while in the upper wall the pineal gland, and in the lower the infundibulum with the hypophysis cerebri, are added : the corpora quadrigemina are thickenings of the upper wall of the third rudiment, while the crura cerebri arise by increased deposit in its lower part; the cerebellum is a large deposit in the upper wall of the fourth rudiment, while the pons Varolii is a thickening of its lower wall; and the parts composing the medulla oblongata are principally formed by increased deposit in the lower and lateral wall of the fifth rudiment. Thus, also, the lateral ventricles are two lateral expansions of the- forepart of the original ventricular cavity which follow the dilatation of the vesicles of the right and left cerebral hemispheres, and communi- cate with the central or third ventricle by the common foramen of Monro. The central or third ventricle, originally the foremost part of the medullary hollow, is narrowed on the sides by the increased develop- ment of the thalami optici, while inferiorly it is prolonged and projects downwards as infundibulum into the pituitary fossa ; and above the wall of this ventricle comes to be opened up by the thinning away of its medullary substance, excepting at the place where it is crossed by the pineal gland. The continuation backwards of the original ventri- cular hollow, greatly narrowed by the ultimate thickening of the sub- stance of the corpora quadrigemina and crura cerebri, forms the aque- Fig. 555. Fig. 555.—Vertical Section of the. Brain of a Human Embryo of fourteen weeks, Magnified three Diameters (from Reichert). c, cerebral hemisphere ; cc, carpus callosum be- beghming to pass back, /, foramen of Monro ; p, membrane over the third ventricle and the pineal gland ; tit, thalamus opticus ; 3, third ventricle ; I, olfactory bulb ; cq, corpora quadrigemina, mesen- cephalon : cr, crura cerebri, and above them the aqueduct of Sylvius still wide ; c', cerebellum, and below it the fourth ventricle ; pv, Pons Varolii ; m, medulla oblongata. duct of Sylvius, or the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum, and is succeeded by the more expanded cavity of the fourth ventricle, lying between the cerebellum and the lower wall. The upper wall of the latter cavity undergoes great thinning, like that of the third ventricle, so as to be reduced in the part before the cerebellum to the valve of Vieussens,