778 DEVELOPMENT OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. The large intestine is at first less in calibre than the small. In the early embryo there is at first no csecum. This part of the bowel gradually grows out from the rest, and in the first instance forms a tube of uniform calibre, without any appearance of the vermiform appendix : subsequently the lower part of the tube ceases to grow in the same proportion, and becomes the appendix, whilst the upper portion con- tinues to be developed with the rest of the intestine. The caecum now appears as a protrusion a little below the apex of the bend in the primi- tive intestinal tube, and, together with the commencing colon, and the coil of small intestine, is at first lodged in the wide part of the um- bilical cord which is next the body of the embryo. The ileo-caecal valve appears at the commencement of the third month. When the coils of intestine and caecum have retired from the umbilicus into the abdomen, the colon is at first entirely to the left of the con- volutions of the small intestines, but subsequently the first part of the large intestine, together with the meso-colon, crosses over the upper part of the small intestine, at the junction of the duodenum and jejunum. The caecum and transverse colon are then found just below the liver ; finally, the caecum descends to the right iliac fossa, and at the fourth or fifth month the parts are in the same position as in the adult. At first, villous processes or folds of various lengths are formed throughout the whole canal. After a time these disappear in the stomach and large intestine, but remain persistent in the intermediate portions of the tube. According to Meckel, the villous processes are formed from larger folds, which become serrated at the edge, and divided into separate villi. The formation of the hinder part of the gut is complicated with the development of the allantois, which arises as a projection or out- growth of the hypoblast and mesoblast from the lower wall of its terminal portion. This part rapidly buds out in the pieuro-peritoneal space, having from a very early period a rich network of the branches of the umbilical vessels in its outer layer. The anal or cloacal portion remains behind the allantoid pedicle, and by the fifth day in the chick the whole of the tissues which close the terminal fold thin rapidly away, and become perforated so as to form the primitive anal, or rather the cloacal opening. The separation of the permanent anus from the uro- genital orifice is the result of a later process of development. The mode of development of the alimentary canal explains, in some measure, the complicated folds of the peritoneum. The stomach being originally more nearly in the line of the alimentary canal and mesial in position, the small omentum aad gastro-phrenic ligament are originally parts of a mesial fold with the free edge directed for- wards, which afterwards forms the anterior boundary of the foramen of Winslow. Thus the anterior wall of the sac of the omentum, as far as the great curvature of the stomach, may be considered as formed by the right side of a mesial fold, while the peritoneum in front of the stomach belongs to the left side of the same, and a sac of the omentum is a natural consequence of the version and disproportionate growth of the tube between the duodenum and the cardiac orifice of the stomach. It is obvious that the view of the omental sac, according to which its posterior layers are held to return to the duodenum and posterior wall of the body before proceeding to form the transverse meso-colon (p. 484) is more consistent with the phenomena of development now described,