194 LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. inside of a mould in which it had been cast. This space is both a receptacle and a channel of passage for the lymph that goes through the Fig. 130. Fig. 130.—Section op a Mesenteric Gland of the Ox (magnified 12 diameters). The section includes a portion of the cortical part, A, in its whole depth, and a smaller portion of the adjoining medullary part, B ; c, c, outer coat or capsule sending partitions into the cortical part to form alveoli, and trabecule, t, t, which are seen mostly cut across; d, d, the glandular substance forming nodules in the cortical part, A, and reticulating cords in the medullary part, B ; I, I, lymph-sinus or lymph-channel, left white (after His). gland ; it is the lymph-sinus (His), or the lymph-channel. It is traversed by retiform connective tissue (fig. 131 c, c), in which the nuclei of the spindle-shaped or ramified cells are mostly apparent, and is filled with fluid lymph, containing many lymph-corpuscles, which may be washed out from sections of the gland with a hair pencil, so as to show the sinus, while the firmer gland-pulp, which the sinus surrounds, keeps its place. The latter, the proper glandular substance, is also pervaded and supported by retiform tissue, mostly non-nucleated (fig. 131, a), com- municating with that of the surrounding lymph-sinus, but marked off from it by somewhat closer reticulation at their mutual boundary, not so close, however, as to prevent fluids, or even solid corpuscles, from passing from the one to the other. This glandular pulp is made up of densely packed lymph-corpuscles, occupying the interstices of its sup- porting retiform tissue, and is traversed by an abundant network of capillary blood-vessels (d, d), which runs throughout the proper gland- ular pulp, both cortical and medullary, but does not pass into the surrounding lymph-sinus. The stellate cells of the retiform tissue of the lymph-sinus often contain a considerable number of pigment granules. Arteries enter and veins leave the gland at the hilus, sur- rounded, in some glands, as already said, with a dense inclosure of connective tissue. The arterial branches go in part directly to the glandular substance, but partly run along the trabecular. The former end in the glandular capillary network above-mentioned, from which