55S THE CEREBRUM. 2. The fibres of the tegmentum, having entered the thalamus, pass on in two ways—no part of them, however, joining1 the radiating- peduncular fibres. a. One set pass upwards through the thalamus and corpus striatum, above which they then turn inwards, and, joining with those of the opposite side, form the transverse fibres of the corpus callosum. The corpus callosum is there- fore regarded as a commissure of the cerebral peduncles only—none of its cross fibres spreading- into the convolutions, as is generally believed. h. The second set of fibres of the tegmentum, corresponding with the fasciculi teretes and part the posterior pyramids, run forwards near the middle line, along the under side of the third ventricle and corpus striatum, through the grey matter in front of the pons, to the anterior perforated space. The remaining part of the posterior pyramid forms the taenia semicircularis, which, passing clown in front of the anterior pillar of the fornix, also reaches the perforated space. From this space more fibres are reflected upwards on the sides of the corpus striatum to join the corpus callosum. 3. As dependencies of the posterior peduncular fibres, and connected with them at the borders of the anterior perforated space, are :— a. Several sets of longitudinal arched fibres, which embrace, in a series of rings, the radiating peduncular system. These are—the deep fibres of the taenia semi- circularis—a somewhat similar band beneath the outer part of the corpus striatum —the half of the fornix with the corpus fimbriatum—the longitudinal fibres placed on the upper and under surface of the corpus callosum, and those of the septum lucidum; and, lastly, two remarkable systems of longitudinal fibres—one constituting the entire white substance of the gyrus fornicatus (from end to end), also of its accessory convolutions, and of the inner half of the marginal convo- lution of the longitudinal fissure; and the other, forming the white substance of the convolutions of the island of Reil, and the adjoining half of the convolution •of the Sylvian fissure. None of the parts just named receive fibres from the radiating peduncular set. 1>. In connection with this system is a thin stratum of white fibres, found upon the internal surf ace of the ventricles, and prolonged through the transverse fissure into the reticulated white substance covering the lower end of the gyrus fornicatus; whence it extends, as an exceedingly thin layer of medullary matter, all over the cortical substance of the hemisphere. e. The anterior commissure does not reach the convolutions, but radiates upon the outer sides of the corpora striata and thalami. The Grey Matter of the cerebrum may be considered in three categories, according as it is placed (a) on the convoluted surface, (b) at the base, and (c) in the interior of the cerebrum. (A.) on the convoluted SURFACE the grey matter forms a continuous layer divided into two and in some regions into three strata, by interposed thin layers of paler substance. In examining a section from without in- wards, we meet with—1. A thin coating of white matter situated on the surface, which on a section appears as a faint white line, bounding the grey surface externally (fig. 390, a). This superficial white layer is not equally thick over all parts of the cortical substance, but becomes thicker as it approaches the borders .of the convoluted surface; it is accordingly less conspicuous on the lateral convex aspect of the hemispheres, and more so on the convolutions situated in the longitudinal fissure which approach the white surface of the corpus callosum, and on those of the under surface of the brain. It is especially well marked on the temporo- sphenoidal lobe, near the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle, where the convoluted surface is bounded by the posterior pillar of the fornix, and it has been there described under the name of the reticulated white sub- stance. 2. Immediately beneath the white layer just described, is found a comparatively thick layer of grey or reddish grey matter, the colour of which, as indeed of the grey substance generally, is deeper or lighter