487 STRUCTURE OF THE MAMMA. having adipose tissue penetrating between them. Each of these lobes is provided with an excretory duct, and is subdivided into smaller lobes, and these again into smaller and smaller lobules, which are flattened or depressed, and are united by areolar tissue, blood-vessels, and ducts. The substance of the lobules is of a pale reddish cream-colour, especially as contrasted with the adjacent fat, and is rather firm. It is composed principally of the vesicular commencements of the lacti- ferous ducts, which appear like clusters of small rounded vesicles, having a diameter from ten to thirty times as great as that of the capillary vessels by which they are surrounded. These vesicles open into the smallest branched ducts, which, uniting together to form others of larger size, finally end in a single excretory canal corresponding Fig. 341. Fig. 341.—Dissection of the lower half of the Female Mamma during the period of Lactation (from Luschka). § a, a, a, undissected part of the mamma ; 1, the mammilla ; 2, areola ; 3, sub- cutaneous masses of fat; 4, reticular loculi of the connective tissue which support the glandular substance and contain the fatty masses ; 5, three lactiferous ducts passing towards the mammilla where they open ; 6, one of the sinus lactei or reservoirs ; 7, some of the glandular lobules which have been unravelled ; 7', others massed together. to one of the chief subdivisions of the gland. The canals formed thus are named the galactophorous ducts, and are from fifteen to twenty in number ; they converge towards the areola, beneath which they become considerably dilated, especially during lactation, so as to form ampuTkz or sinuses two or even three lines wide, which serve as small temporary reservoirs for the milk. At the base of the nipple all these ducts, again reduced in size, are assembled together, those in the centre being the largest, and then proceed, side by side, surrounded by areolar tissue and vessels, and without communicating with each other, to the summit of the mammilla, where they open by separate orifices ; these orifices are seated in little depressions, and are smaller than the ducts