690 GENERAL PHENOMENA OF EMBRYONIC DEVELOPMENT. embryonic area may be given, From this area, as from a centre, the changes of development in some measure emanate or spread towards the periphery. In birds the central area is from the first distinguished from the surrounding part by greater transparency and thinness of the blastoderm, and thus (as already described) arises the distinction of the transparent and opaque areas. In mammals, on the other hand, the germinal part of the blastoderm is at first entirely opaque, forming the embryonic disc of Coste, BischofP, and others ; and it is by a subsequent change that a part of this disc clears up or becomes thin and transparent, and that an opaque area is formed in the peripheral part. In both birds and mammals the embryonic area, from being simply round at first, becomes soon somewhat pyriform, and subsequently oval or con- tracted in the centre, like the body of a violin. Fig. 500. c Fig. 500.—First appearance op the Primitive Trace and Medullary Canal in the Ovum op the Dog (from Bischoft). a, b, and c, represent the natural size of the ova of which the several germinal arese- are represented in A, B, and C. In A the germinal area is pyriform, and the primitive trace occupies two-thirds of the narrow hinder end. In B the trace is elongated and on the two sides are the raised medullary plates, mp, with the primitive groove between. In C the distinction between transparent area, at, and opaque area, ao, is marked by the outline. It is in the hinder narrower part of this embryonic area, when it has assumed the pyriform shape, that the earliest trace of the embryo can be discerned. This forms the well known primitive streak and groove of authors, but it appears from the observations of Dursy and Balfour in the chiek, and of Hensen in the rabbit, that the primitive trace and groove, which are the first indications of embryonic formation, are only transitory and evanescent, and that they are succeeded by the medullary groove and dorsal plates, which commence beyond the cephalic end of the primitive trace, and grow backwards towards the caudal extremity, so as gradually to thrust out as it were at the end the shrivelled remains of the primitive trace. The anterior extremity of this medullary groove becomes afterwards the cephalic, and the posterior extremity or that towards the primitive trace becomes the caudal part of the cranio- vertebral axis of the embryo.