THE (ESOPHAGUS. 343 and passes outwards to the petrous portion of the temporal. It is strengthened in the middle line by a strong band descending between the recti antici muscles from a part of the basilar process of the occipital bone (which often presents a marked tubercle). The pharynx is usually described as directly attached superiorly to the basilar process of the occipital bone ; it is certain, however, from dissections in both young and old subjects, that the recti capitis antici muscles come quite forward to the anterior extremity of the basilar process; that the posterior wall of the pharynx at its upper end forms a cul-de-sac on each side opposite the tip of the petrous bone, and lies in a curve, with its convexity forwards, in front of the recti muscles ; and that the only connection of the pharynx with the occipital bone is by means of the mesial band, which has just been described, and which forms a cranio-pharyngeal ligament (Cleland). The tubercle from which this band principally springs is sometimes named tuber•ctdum p?iaryngeum. Behind, the pharynx is loosely connected by areolar tissue to the prevertebral fascia covering the bodies of the cervical vertebrae and the muscles which rest upon them. At the sides it has similar connections with the styloid process and its muscles, and with the large vessels and nerves of the neck. In front, it is attached in succession to the sides of the posterior nares, the mouth and the larynx. Thus, com- mencing above by a tendinous structure only, at the petrous portion of the temporal bone and the Eustachian tube, the pharynx is con- nected by means of muscle and fibrous membrane, first, with the internal pterygoid plate, then with the pterygo-maxillary ligament, and next wTith the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw; below this, it is attached to the sides of the tongue, to the hyoid bone, and stylo- hyoid ligament; and, still lower down, to the thyroid and cricoid cartilages. Structure.—The muscles of the pharynx are the superior, middle and inferior constrictors, the stylo-pharyngeus, and the palato-pharyn- geus. They are already described. The mucous membrane is continuous at the several apertures with that of the adjacent cavities. It varies somewhat in its character in different parts. Its upper portion is thick where it adheres to the base of the skull, but much thinner near the entrance of the Eustachian tubes and the posterior nares: in this situation numerous racemose mucous glands are found collected in a layer beneath the mucous mem- brane ; lymphoid follicles also exist throughout the whole of the pharynx. A collection of these, forming a glandular mass similar to that forming the tonsils, stretches across the back of the pharyngeal cavity between the orifices of the two Eustachian tubes (Kolliker). In the part opposite the fauces, the mucous membrane exactly resembles that of the mouth. Lower down it becomes paler, and at the back of the larynx it forms several longitudinal folds. According to Henle, the epithelium upon the upper portion of the pharynx, as low down as a horizontal line level with the floor of the nares, is columnar and ciliated; but, below that point, it is squamous and destitute of cilia. THE (ESOPHAGUS. The aiso})liagus or gullet, the passage leading from the pharynx to the stomach, commences at the cricoid cartilage opposite the lower border of the fifth cervical vertebra (sixth, Braune), and descending along the front of the spine, passes through the diaphragm opposite the