432 THE PENIS. The under surface of the united cavernous bodies presents a longi- tudinal groove, in which is lodged the corpus spongiosum, containing Fig- 311. Fig. 311.—Root op the Penis attached to the Rami op the Pubes and Ischium (from Kobelt). § a, a, accelerator urina? muscle covering the bulb of the spongy body of the urethra, which presents at e, posteriorly, a median notch ; b, b, anterior slips of the muscle or bulbo-cavernosi ; c, c, crura of the penis, presenting an oval dilatation or bulb of the corpus cavernosum ; d, d, erectores penis muscles ; /, corpus spon- giosum urethras. the greatest part of the canal of the urethra. The upper or an- terior surface is also marked with a slight median groove in which the dorsal vein of the penis is situated, and near the root is at- tached to the pubes by the sus- pensory ligament. Structure.—The median sep- tum between the two corpora cavernosa is thick and complete near the root of the penis ; but farther forward it becomes thin- ner, and only imperfectly separates their two cavities, for it presents, particularly towards the anterior extremity, numerous clefts, extending from the dorsal to the urethral edge, and admitting of a free communi- Fig. 312.—Transverse Section op the Penis in the distended state (altered from Henle). The outer line indicates the integument surrounding the deeper parts ; the erectile tissue of the corpora cavernosa and the septum pectiniforme are shown in section; u, placed on the section of the spongy body, below the urethra ; v, the single dorsal vein ; a, the dorsal artery, and n, the nerve, of one side. cation between the erectile tissue of the two sides. From the direction of these slits, the intermediate white portions of the septum resemble somewhat the teeth of a comb, and hence have received the name of septum pectiniforme. The external fibrous investment of the cavernous structure is white and dense, from half a line to a line thick, and very strong and elastic. It is composed for the most part of longitudinal bundles of shining white fibres, with numerous well-developed elastic fibres, enclosing the two corpora cavernosa in a common covering ; and internal to this, each compartment is surrounded by a layer of circular fibres, which enter into the formation of the septum. From the interior of the fibrous envelope, and from the sides of the septum, numerous lamellae, bands, and cords, composed of fibrous elastic