418 THE URETERS. of the cervix uteri and upper part of the vagina before reaching the bladder. Having reached the base of the bladder, about two inches apart from one another, the ureters enter its coats, and running obliquely through them for about three-quarters of an inch, open at length upon the inner surface by two narrow and oblique slit-like openings, which are situated, in the male, about an inch and a half behind the prostate gland, and about the same distance from each other. This oblique passage of the ureter through the vesical walls, while allowing the urine to flow into the bladder, has the effect of preventing its reflux. Structure.—The walls of the ureter are pinkish or bluish white in colour. They consist of an external fibrous coat, a middle coat of plain muscular tissue, and a mucous lining. According to Huschke and Obersteiner the muscular coat possesses two layers of longitudinal fibres and a middle circular layer : Henle finds only an inner longitudinal and an outer cir- cular layer ; while Kolliker, who ad- mits the inner longitudinal and the cir- cular as the principal layers, describes longitudinal fibres external to the cir- cular layer which are absent at the upper part of the tube. The mvcous membrane, thin and smooth, presents a few longitudinal folds when the ureter is laid open. It is prolonged above to the papilla? of the kidney, and below becomes continuous with the lining membrane of the bladder. The epithelium (fig. 303) is of a peculiar character, like that of the bladder. It is stratified, consisting of at least three layers of cells, in the uppermost of which the cells are somewhat cubical, with de- pressions on their under surface, which fit upon the rounded ends of a second layer of pear-shaped cells ; then follow one or more layers of rounded or oval cells, with processes extending down to the mucous membrane. Vessels and nerves.—The ureter is supplied with blood from small branches of the renal, the- spermatic, the internal iliac, and the inferior vesical arteries. The veins end in various neighbouring vessels. The nerves come from the inferior mesenteric, spermatic, and hypogastric plexuses. They form a plexus in the outer coat, containing a few ganglion-cells. Varieties.—Sometimes there is no funnel-shaped expansion of the ureter at its upper end into a pelvis, but the calices unite into two or more narrow tubes, which afterwards coalesce to form the ureter. Occasionally, the separation of these two tubes continues lower down than usual, and even reaches as low as the bladder, in which case the ureter is double. In rare cases, a triple ureter has been met with. In instances of long-continued obstruction to the passage of the urine, the ureters occasionally become enormously dilated, and their opening into the bladder becomes direct, so as to lose its valvular action. Fig. 303.—Epithelium fuom the Pelvis of the Human Kidxey (Kolliker). 350 Diameters. A, different kinds of epithelial cells separated; B, the same in situ.