MEMBRANES OF BRAIN AND CORD. 570 In leaving the skull, the dura mater is intimately attached to the margin of the foramen magnum ; but within the vertebral canal it forms a loose sheath around the cord (theca), and is not adherent to the bones, which have an independent periosteum. Towards the lower end of the canal, a few fibrous slips proceed from the outer surface of the dura mater to be fixed to the vertebras. The space intervening between the wall of the canal and the dura mater is occupied by loose fat, by watery areolar tissue, and by a plexus of spinal veins. Fig. 394. Fig. 394.—The Cranium opened to show the Falx of the Cerebrum, and Tentorium op the Cerebellum. (Allen Thomson.) § a, right side of the falx cerebri ; a', its anterior narrow part attached to the crista galli ; b, tentorium cerehelli of the right side, united to the base of the falx cerebri from 2 to 3, in the line of the straight sinns, and attached to the superior border of the petrous bone between 3 and 3' ; b', aperture between the right and left divisions of the tentorium for the isthmus cerebri; 1, 1, the superior longitudinal sinus ; 2, 2, the inferior ; 3, 3, the lateral sinus ; 3, 3', the superior petrosal sinus ; 3', is close to the anterior clinoid process. Opposite each intervertebral foramen the dura-matral theca presents two openings, placed side by side, which give passage to the two roots of the corresponding spinal nerve. It is continued as a tubular pro- longation on the nerve, and is lost in its sheath. Besides this, it is connected with the circumference of the foramen by areolar tissue. The fibrous* tissue of the dura mater, especially within the skull, is divisible into two distinct layers, and at various places these layers separate from each other and leave intervening channels, called sinuses. These sinuses, which have been elsewhere described, are canals for venous blood, and are lined with a continuation of the internal mem- brane of the veins. The dura mater also sends inwards into the cavity of the skull three rstrong membranous processes, or partitions, formed by duplication of its inner layer. Of these, one descends vertically in the median plane, and