MUSCLES OF THE LARYNX. 289 The crico-thyroid muscle (fig. 193,10), is a short thick triangular muscle, seen on the front of the larynx. Its origin from the cricoid cartilage, extends from the median line a considerable way backwards, and its fibres passing upwards and outwards, diverging slightly, are Fig. 193. Fig. 194. Fig. 193.—Lateral View op the Cartilages of the Larynx with the Crigo-Thyroid Muscle (after Willis). 8, thyroid cartilage ; 9, cricoid ; 10, crico-tliyroid muscle ; 11, crico-thyroid mem- brane ; 12, upper rings of the trachea. Fig. 194.—View op the Larynx and Part of the Trachea from behind, with the Muscles dissected. h, the body of the hyoid bone ; e, epiglottis; t, the posterior borders of the thyroid cartilage ; c, the median ridge of the cricoid ; a, arytenoid muscle ; s, placed on one of the oblique fasciculi ; b, left posterior crico-arytenoid muscle ; r, ends of the incom- plete cartilaginous rings of the trachea ; I, fibrous membrane crossing the back of the trachea ; n, muscular fibres exposed in a part. inserted into the inferior border of the thyroid cartilage, and into the anterior border of its lower cornu. The lower portion of the muscle, the fibres of which, nearly horizontal, are inserted into the lower cornu, is usually distinct from the rest. Some of the superficial fibres are almost always continuous with the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. The muscles of the two sides separate from one another in the middle line in front, leaving an interval which is triangular with the base upwards. The crico-thyroid membrane is here uncovered. The posterior crico-arytenoid muscle (fig. 194, V), situated be- hind, arises from the broad depression on the corresponding half of the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage, and its fibres, converging upwards and outwards, are inserted into the outer angle of the base of the arytenoid cartilage, behind the attachment of the lateral crico- arytenoid muscle. The upper fibres are short and almost horizontal;