132 NERVOUS TISSUE. aside their medullary sheath and dark borders, and are prolonged into pale fibres, often minutely dividing, which seem to represent the axis- cylinder deprived of surrounding white substance, and either naked or covered with a prolongation of the primitive sheath. But, apart from these pale continuations of white fibres, there are nerve-fibres which exhibit the non-medullated character throughout their whole length. These are the pale grey fibres first pointed out by Remak, and commonly designated by his name, which are found, with or without associated white fibres, chiefly in the sympathetic but also in other nerves. The branches of the olfactory nerve of man and mammalia consist wholly of these pale fibres. They measure from g-^o-oth to g oWth of an inch in diameter, appear flattened, translucent, homogeneous, or very faintly granular, and sometimes finely striated longitudinally. At short distances they bear oblong nuclei, which belong to a sheath. In structure these fibres are essentially similar to the axis-cylinder of the medullated fibre, being composed of a bundle of exquisitely fine fibrils with a certain amount of intervening substance. The nucleated sheath corresponds to the primitive sheath of the medullated fibre. Pale fibres are also met with (in the sympathetic nerve especially) which appear as fine threads with fusiform enlargements. These enlarge- ments are granular in substance, and possibly of the nature of nuclei, but placed in the continuity of the fibre, and not merely attached to a sheath. Nerve-cells.—These, as already mentioned, constitute the second kind of structural elements proper to the nervous system. They are found in the grey matter of the cerebro-spinal centre and ganglions, constituting a principal part of the last-mentioned bodies, and thence often named ganglionic corpuscles or ganglion-cells; they exist also in some of the nerves of special sense at their peripheral expansions, and, here and there, in the course of certain other nerves. The nerve-cells Fig. 86. Fig. 87. Fig. 86.—Ganglionic Nerve-Cells, magnified (from Valentin). The cell-processes are broken off. n. nucleus. Fig. 87.—Nerve-Cells from the Cortical Grey Matter of the Cerebellum. Magnified 260 diameters (Kolliker). may have a spheroidal, oval, or pyriform shape (fig. 86); and such for the most part is their form in the ganglia ; but many, and especially