THE DUODENUM. 369 SPECIAL CHARACTERS AND CONNECTIONS OP THE SEVERAL. PARTS OF THE SMALL INTESTINE. Duodenum.—This is the shortest and widest part of the small intes- tine. In length it measures 10 or 12 inches, or about the breadth of twelve fingers ; hence its name. It varies in diameter between an inch and a half and two inches. In its course it describes a single large curve somewhat resembling a horseshoe, the convexity of which is turned towards the right, whilst the concavity embraces the head of the pancreas. Fig. 266. —View of the Duodenum from before (slightly altered from Lusclika). 4 12, the twelfth dorsal vertebra and rib ; 1, 3, 4, 5, transverse processes of the first, third, fourth, and fifth left lumbar vertebrae ; 2, that of the second on the right side ; a, a, the abdominal aorta above the coeliac axis and also near the bifurcation ; m, superior mesenteric artery ; v, v, the vena cava above the renal veins and near the bifurcation ; p, placed on the first part of the duodenum, points to the pyloric orifice seen from the side next the stomach, of which a small part is left con- nected with the intestine ; d, on the descend- ing or second part of the duodenum, indicates the termination of the common bile-duct and the pancreatic duct ; d', the third or oblique part of the duodenum ; j, the commencement of the jejunum. Fig. 266. It has no mesentery, and is covered only partially by the peritoneum. Its muscular coat is comparatively thick, and its mucous membrane towards the pylorus is the seat of the glands of Brunner, already described. The common bile-duct and the pancreatic duct open into this part of the intestinal canal. Three portions of the duodenum are described by anatomists. The first, or superior portion, between two and three inches long, extends from the pylorus upwards, backwards, and to the right, as far as beneath the neck of the gall-bladder, where it bends suddenly down- wards. The first portion of the duodenum is for the most part free, and invested by peritoneum like the stomach. Above, and in front of it, are the liver and gall-bladder, and it is commonly found stained by the exudation of bile from the latter a few hours after death. Behind it is the biliary duct, with the blood-vessels passing up to the liver. The second, or descending portion, commencing at the bend below the neck of the gall-bladder passes downwards as low as the second or third lumbar vertebra, where the bowel turns across to the left to form the third portion. This part of the duodenum is invested by the perito- neum on its anterior surface only,—the posterior surface being con- nected to the right kidney and the vertebral column by areolar tissue. In front is the transverse colon and mesocolon, the upper layer of which is continuous with the peritoneal covering of the duodenum. To the left is the head of the pancreas (see fig. 282), which adapts itself to B b 2