38 THE LYMPH AND CHYLE. good only while digestion is going on ; for at other times the lacteals contain a clear fluid, not to be distinguished from lymph. The lacteals enter the commencement of the thoracic duct, and the chyle, mingling with the lymph derived from the lower part of the body, is conveyed along that canal into the blood. Both lacteals and lymphatics, in pro- ceeding to their destination, pass into and out of certain small, solid, and vascular bodies, named lymphatic glands, which have a special structure and internal arrangement, as will be afterwards described ; so that both the chyle and lymph are sent through these glands before being mixed with the blood. Thus much having been explained to render intelligible what follows, we may now consider the lymph and the chyle, which, as will be seen, are intimately related to the blood. The lymph may be procured free from admixture of chyle, and in quantity sufficient for examination, from the larger lymphatic vessels of the horse or ass. It may also be obtained by opening the thoracic duct of an animal that has fasted for some time before being killed. It is a thin fluid, transparent and colourless, or occasionally of a pale yellow hue ; its taste is saline, its smell faint and scarcely perceptible, and its reaction alkaline. Sometimes the lymph has a decided red tint, of greater or less depth, which becomes brighter on exposure to the air. This redness is due to the presence of coloured corpuscles, like those of the blood : and it has been sometimes supposed, that such corpuscles exist naturally in the lymph, in greater or less quantity ; but they are more probably introduced into the lymphatic vessels accidentally. It can, in fact, be shown, that when an incision is made into a part, the blood very readily enters the lymphatics which are laid open, and passes along into larger trunks ; and in this way blood is conveyed into the thoracic duct, or any other large vessel, exposed as usual by incision immediately after the animal is killed. Indeed, mere rough handling of some organs, such as the liver and spleen, will rupture the fine vessels and cause the contents of the issuing lymphatics speedily to become red from admixture of blood. The lymph, when examined with the microscope, is seen to consist of a clear liquid, with corpuscles floating in it. These "lymph-corpus- cles," or lymph-globules, agree entirely in their characters with the pale corpuscles of the blood, which have been already described (page 23). It is alleged that some of the lymph corpuscles have a yellowish tint. Occasionally, smaller particles are found in the lymph; also, but more rarely, a few oil globules of various sizes, as well as red blood-corpuscles, the presence of which has just been referred to. The liquid part (lymph-plasma) bears a strong resemblance in its physical and chemical constitution to the plasma of the blood ; and accordingly, lymph fresh-drawn from the vessels coagulates after a few minutes' exposure, and separates after a time into clot and serum. This change is owing to the combination of the constituents of the fibrin contained in the lymph-plasma, and in this process most of the cor- puscles are entangled in the coagulum. The serum, like the corre- sponding part of the blood, consists of water, albumin, extractive matters, fatty matters in very sparing quantity and salts. Sugar exists in small quantity in the lymph, and urea, in the proportion of from 0-01 to 0*02 per cent.; leucin has also been found, at least in the lymphatic glands.