STRUCTURE AND FORMATION OF THE PLACENTA. 721 longed from the external decidua serotina between the lobes. (For an excellent account of the evidence in favour of the foregoing views, supported by original observations, see Professor Turner's observations on the " Structure of the Human Placenta," in Proceed. Roy. Soc. of Edin., May, 1872, and in Journ. of Anat., vol. vii., p. 120.) Farther Consideration of the Structure of the Placenta.—Two doubtful points respecting the structure of the placenta still require consideration, viz.. 1st, the extent to which uterine tissue is included in or penetrates into, or remains as a constituent of the maternal part; and 2nd, the relation of the interpenetration of the foetal villi and the uterine decidua to the glandular or other structures of the uterus. In regard to the first of these points, the views of anatomists still differ greatly; for, on the one hand, some hold that there is no vestige of uterine tissue left in connection with the maternal blood-spaces, at all events in the deeper two-thirds of the thickness of the placenta, and that consequently the maternal blood circu- lating in the placenta is in direct contact with the epithelial covering of the foetal villi; while others are inclined to regard that epithelial covering, or some part of the structure which appears to belong to the foetal villi, as really containing some of the elements of the decidua. Goodsir, indeed, described a double cellular covering of the placental villi, regarding the external layer as of uterine, and the internal as of foetal origin. But later anatomists have not succeeded in confirming these observations, and it does not appear certain that there is more than one obvious layer of cells over the surface of the foetal villi. If, therefore, we assume the existence of a layer of uterine cells in the fully formed placenta, we are reduced to the necessity of supposing that it has either replaced that of the chorionic villi, or has become closely incorporated with it (Kolliker). The observation of the gradual penetration of the decidua by the villi in the earlier stages of placental formation, the possibility of separating the foetal and maternal structures from each other during a certain time, and the undoubted presence both of decidual tissue and of uterine blood-vessels possessed of walls of their own in the commencement,—all supply convincing proof that uterine elements of structure have originally existed in the placenta, and have contri- buted to its formation along with those derived from the foetus ; but the con- dition of the uterine elements in the more advanced stages of placental growth, if they really then exist, still requires further investigation. The actual enlargement of the uterine capillaries of the decidua into the form of vascular spaces has been traced by Virchow (Archiv, vol. iii. p. 150), and Priestley has observed the capillary form of the maternal vessels surrounding the villi in a product of abortion of the 8th week (Lectures on the Development of the Gravid Uterus, 1860, p. 62). Some anatomists, indeed, as Schroder Van der Kolk, affirm that they have been able to detect the remains of a vascular wall in connection with the blood-spaces of some parts of the placenta (Waarnemingen over het Maaksel van de Menschelijke Placenta : Amsterdam, 1861), so that it may with reason be surmised that the change which takes place in the structure of the parts forming the human placenta, in the course of the fourth month, is mainly of the nature of a rapid thinning and absorption of the elements of the decidual tissue and vascular walls. The view that the placenta originally consists of uterine as well as foetal ele- ments combined receives the fullest confirmation from the study of the compara- tive anatomy of the various forms of simple placental structures in animals, as, in the diffuse placenta of the pachydermata, solipeds, cetacea and some other animals, and in the cott/ledonous placenta of most ruminants; in both of which only the foetal part of the placental structure undergoes separation from the uterus at birth,—constituting the non-deciduate form of placentation ; and in the various forms of more complete union of the foetal and maternal elements, which occur in the zonal placenta of the carnivora, and the discoid of the rodentia, in which more or less of the maternal structure derived from decidual formation comes away with the foetal product at birth. But in all forms of placentation of 3 a 2