55G THE CEREBRUM. a. The superior peduncles of the cerebellum (processus ad cerebrum), which are continued up beneath the corpora quadrigemina, and form part of the tegmentum. Some of these fibres are believed by Meynert to be connected with the cells of the corpus striatum. b. The bundle of fibres on each side, named the fillet (lemniscus) (i, fig. 387). This, which is originally derived from the anterior column of the cord, proceeds from the olivary fasciculus of the medulla oblon- gata, as previously described. Reinforced, by fibres from the corpus dentatum of the olivary body, it ascends through the back part of the pons, still increasing in size. Appearing at the side of the cerebral peduncle, above the upper border of the pons, it divides into two portions, of which one crosses over the superior peduncle of the cerebellum to the corpora quadrigemina, meeting its fellow of the opposite side, while the other is continued upwards with the fibres of the tegmentum. c. Fibres from the middle peduncles of the cerebellum are believed to turn upwards in the pons and join those of the crusta. (Meynert, Broadbent.) d. The crusta also contains fibres which pass upwards from the grey nuclei in the floor of the fourth ventricle. e. Other fibres accessory to the peduncles take their rise in the grey matter of the corpora quadrigemina (constituting their brachia), and proceed on, the anterior to the thalami optici and surface of the inner corpora geniculata; the posterior to the inner corpora geniculata and thence to the crura cerebri. /. Lastly, fibres of another set, also joining the peduncles, are de- rived from the corpora geniculata. 2. The transverse commissural or connecting fibres of the cere- brum, include the following sets. a. The cross fibres of the corpus callosum pass laterally into the substance of,' the hemispheres, some being directed upwards, whilst others spread outwards on the roof of the lateral ventricles, forming there what is named the tapetum. Intersecting the peduncular ra- diating fibres, they spread out into the hemispheres, reaching every- where the grey matter of the convolutions. In the middle of the white centre of the hemisphere the ascending fibres preponderate, but gradually disappear towards the corpus callosum, while, on the other hand, towards the convolutions all the fibres assume an ascending direction, and the decussation disappears. It is doubtful whether any of the ascending fibres of the corona radiata enter the corpus callosum.. b. The fibres of the anterior commissure^ exceedingly fine, pass laterally into the corpora striata, and bending backwards, extend a long way into the middle of the hemisphere, and are distributed to the temporo- sphenoidal lobes (fig. 388 x ). c. The fibres of the posterior commissure run through the optic thalami, and are soon lost in the substance of the hemispheres outside these bodies. 3. The longitudinal or collateral system of fibres includes those of the fornix, taenia semicircularis, and striae longitudinales of the corpus callosum, already sufficiently described ; and likewise the following. a. Fibres of the gyrus fornicatus; fillet of the corpus callosum (Mayo). —These fibres constitute the white substance of the gyrus fornicatus, and take a longitudinal course immediately above the transverse fibres of the corpus callosum (fig. 389, a a'). In front they bend downwards