THE RETINA. 605 these nerves are seen lying on the surface of the choroid, into which they send branches, and in which they form between and amongst the blood-vessels a fine plexus of pale fibres rich in ganglion-cells, the Fig. 415. Fig. 416. Fig. 415.—Lateral View op the Ciliary Nerves (Arnold). Diagrammatic. a, optic nerve ; b, back part of the sclerotic ; c, ciliary muscle ; d, iris ; e, outer surface of the choroid coat; 1, five of the ciliary nerves passing along the sheath of the optic nerve, piercing the sclerotic posteriorly, and thence passing forward on the choroid membrane to the ciliary muscle and iris. The nerves are represented too large. Fig. 416.— Distribution of Nerves in the Iris (Kolliker). 50 Diameters. The preparation was from the eye of an albino rabbit; a, smaller branches of the ciliary nerves advancing from the choroid ; b, loops of union between them at the margin of the iris ; c, arches of union in the iris ; c', finer network in the inner part; e, sphincter pupillse muscle. groups of cells being often applied to the walls of the vessels. Within the ciliary muscle the nerves also subdivide minutely, forming here another plexus, which contains a number of medullated fibres and the cells of which are smaller. A few recurrent branches appear to pass back from it into the choroid coat, but the greater number pass on to the iris (fig. 416, a, a). In the iris the nerves follow the course of the blood-vessels, dividing into branches, which communicate with one another as far as the pupil, forming a close plexus of fine non-medul- lated fibres. Their ultimate termination is not ascertained. RETINA OR NERVOUS TUNIC. The retina is a delicate almost pulpy membrane, which contains the terminal part of the optic nerve. It lies within the choroid coat, and rests on the hyaloid membrane of the vitreous humour. It extends forwards nearly to the outer edge of the ciliary processes of the choroid, where it ends in a finely indented border—ora serrata. From this border there is continued onwards a thin layer of transparent, nucleated cells of an elongated or columnar form, constituting the pars ciliaris refincc, which reaches as far as the tips of the ciliary processes, and there dis- appears. The thickness of the retina diminishes from behind forwards, varying from J^th of an inch to ■g-foth of an inch. In the fresh eye it is translucent and of a light pink colour; but after death it soon becomes opaque, and this change is most marked under the action of water, alcohol, and other fluids. Its outer surface is covered with a layer of hexagonal pigment-cells which, as the study of the develop- ment of the parts shows, must be regarded as belonging to the retina and not to the choroid, to which it has usually been ascribed. More-