340 THE SALIVARY GLANDS. The salivary alveoli are bounded externally by a basement membrane,, which, however, appears in some cases to be incomplete, owing to the flattened cells which compose it being branched and stellate instead of epithelioid. Moreover these cells send processes inwards which form a sustentacula^ network amongst the salivary cells.* A delicate intra-alveolar reticulum is described by various observers, enclosing- in its meshes the alveolar cells. It is at present uncertain whether the appear- ance is to be referred to the sustentacular network of cell-processes above mentioned, or to the network of intercellular passages shown in fig. 239, or to an independent cause. In sections of the submaxillary gland there is to be seen here and there in the alveoli a peculiar half-moon-shaped granular mass, staining deeply with carmine, and lying between the salivary-cells and the enclosing basement membrane (fig. 238, c). This body, which was first noticed by G-ianuzzi, and has been regarded as of considerable importance, we are inclined to look upon, with Pfliiger, as most probably due to a post-mortem change consequent on the presence of mucus within the more central cells—these becoming swollen by imbibition, and compressing the marginal cells, which contain no mucus, against the basement membrane. In accordance with this view it may be stated that the semilunar body is not found in those animals (rabbits) in which the salivary-cells contain no mucus, nor in the glands of other animals (dogs) the cells of which have been caused to discharge their contained mucus by irritation of the nerves proceeding to the gland (Heidenhain). The smallest ducts of the gland, those into which the alveoli open, are composed only of a basement membrane and a simple layer of flattened epithelium. After a short course the character of the epithelium changes rather abruptly, the cells becoming large and columnar, smallest towards the lumen of the tube, and each containing* a roundish nucleus near the centre (fig. 238, a). The part of the cell nearest the lumen of the duct is homogeneous or granular in character r whereas the part nearest the basement membrane appears finely striated longitudinally. In the ducts of the parotid gland this striated appear- ance is said to be absent. Pfliiger states that the striation is due to the presence of excessively fine varicose fibrils, and that these are directly continuous with those forming the axis-cylinders- of nerves, which he describes as penetrating the basement membrane. The free ends of the cells, which project into the lumen, present a mosaic appearance when seen from the surface. The larger ducts acquire a coating of fibrous Fig. 239. an(j elastic tissue outside the basement membrane, and, except in those of the sublingual gland, a few plain muscular fibre-cells are also to be found : the columnar epithelium becomes at the same time ^ gradually shorter and shorter, until in the main ducts it is cubical or even tesselated. Fig. 239.—An Alveolus of a Compound Racemose Gland, INJECTED FROM THE EXCRETORY DUCT. HlGHLY MAGNIFIED. Hardly anything but the dark injecting fluid is shown ; the- alveolar cells and nuclei are only faintly indicated ; those of the duct are not represented at all. The injection is seen filling the central cavity of the alveolus, and passing from this in fine- channels (represented by black reticulating lines), between and around the cells (after Saviotti). According to the observations of Pfliiger and Ewald, the central cavities of the * Boll, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. v.