roots of the nerves. ORIGIN OF NERVES. TIONS of the Principal 5G6 wards too far) ; VII b, the The first or olfactory nerve, or tract, is attached to the under surface of the frontal lobe, in front of the anterior perforated space, by three roots, named external, middle, and internal. The external or long root passes outwards as a band of white fibres, along the anterior margin of the perforated space, towards the posterior border of the fissure of Sylvius, where it disappears. Its fibres have been traced by different observers to the island of Eeil, the optic thalamus (Valentin), and to a nucleus in the substance of the temporo- sphenoidal lobe, in front of the anterior extremity of the hippocampus (Rolando, Luys, Foville). The middle or grey root is of pyramidal shape, and consists of grey matter on the surface continuous with the adjacent grey substance of the anterior perforated space. Within it are white fibres, which have been said to go to the corpus striatum, or to join the fibres of the inner root. Fig. 393. —View from BELOW OP THE CONNEC- Nerves with the Brain (Allen Thomson). The full description of this figure will be found at pa*ge 534. The following references apply to the I', the right olfactory tract cut short and lying in its groove ; II, the left optic nerve in front of the commissure, which is concealed by the pituitary body (I) ; II'. The left tract is seen passing back into e, the external, and i, the internal corpus geni- culatum ; III, the left oculo-motor nerve ; IV, the fourth or trochlear nerve ; V, the greater root of the fifth nerve ; +, the lesser or motor root; on the right side this + is placed on the Grasserian ganglion; VI, the sixth nerve ; VII a, the facial (the origin of which is shown as extending down- auditory nerve ; VIII, the pneumo-gastric nerve ; VIII a, the glossopharyn- geal ; VIII b, the spinal accessory nerve ; IX, the hypoglossal nerve ; C I, the first cervical nerve. With this fig. 385 may be compared. The inner root, not always distinct, is composed of white fibres from the inner and posterior part of the frontal lobe. They are said to be Fig. 393.