THE KIDNEYS. 404 Fig. 286. The external or cortical substance (a) is situated immediately within the fibrous capsule, and forms the superficial part of the organ through- out its whole extent to the depth of about two lines, and moreover sends- prolongations inwards (septula renum, or column® Bertini) between the py- ramids as far as the sinus and bases of the papillae. It is of a nearly uni- form light crimson brown appearance, and is soft and easily lacerated in di- rections vertical to the surface. The medullary portion of the kidney is more dense than the cortical, and is distinctly striated, owing to its con- sisting of small diverging uriniferous tubes, and to its blood-vessels being arranged in a similar manner. There are generally more than twelve py- ramids, but their number is incon- stant, varying from eight to eighteen. Towards the papillae the pyramids are of a lighter colour than the cor- tical substance, but at their base they are usually purplish and darker. Excretory Apparatus. — On squeezing a fresh kidney which has been split open, a little urine will be seen to drain from the papilla3 by fine orifices on their surface. The secretion is carried away and con- veyed into the bladder by the ureter. This long tube on being traced up to the kidney is seen to be somewhat enlarged, and then to expand, as it enters the fissure, into a large funnel- Fig. 286.—Plan of a Longitudinal Section through the Pelyis and Substance op the Right Kidney. One-hale the natural size. a, the cortical substance ; h, b, broad part of two of the pyramids of Mal- pighi ; c, c, the divisions of the pelvis named calices, or infundibula, laid open ; c', one of these unopened ; d, d, summit of the pyramids or papillae projecting into calices ; e, c, section of the narrow- part of two pyramids near the calices; jp, pelvis or enlarged portion of the ureter within the kidney ; u, the ureter ; s, the sinus ; h, the hilus. shaped dilatation named the pelvis, This, within the sinus, divides usually into three, but sometimes only two primary tubular divisions, and these at length end in a larger number of short, truncated but comparatively wide branches named calices or infundibula, which receive the papillae into their wide mouths and are attached around the bases of those prominences, from which, of course, they catch the issuing urine. A single calix often surrounds two, sometimes even three papillae, which are in that case united together ; hence, the calices are in general not so numerous as the papillae. The spaces between the calices are occupied by a considerable amount of fat, imbedded in which are seen the main branches of the renal vessels. Like the rest of the ureter, the pelvis and greater part of the calices consist of three coats, viz., a strong external fibro-areolar and elastic tunic, which becomes continuous around the bases of the papillae with that part of the proper coat of the kidney which is continued into the sinus ; secondly, a thin internal mucous coat, which, or at least its epithelium, is reflected over the summit of each papilla ; and thirdly,