379 THE RECTUM. but both layers become darker and redder towards the termination of the bowel. The mucous membrane of the rectum is thicker, redder, and more vascular than that of the colon; and it moves more freely upon the mus- cular coat;—in this respect resembling the lining membrane of the oesophagus. It presents numerous folds of different sizes, and running in various directions, nearly all of which are effaced by the distension of the bowel. Near the anus these folds are principally longitudinal, and seem to depend on the contraction of the sphincter muscles outside the loosely connected mucous membrane. The larger of these folds were named by Morgagni the columns of the rectum (columns recti). These columns contain longitudinal muscular fibres (apparently part of the muscularis mucosas), which terminate both superiorly and inferiorly in elastic tissue (Treitz). Higher up in the intestine, the chief folds are transverse or oblique. Three prominent folds, larger than the rest, being half an inch or more in depth, and having an oblique direction in the interior of the rectum, have been pointed out specially by Houston. One of these projects backwards from the upper and fore part of the rectum, opposite the prostate gland ; another is placed higher up, at the side of the bowel; and the third still higher. From the position and projection of these folds, they may more or less impede the introduction of instruments (Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. v.). Vessels and Nerves of the Rectum.—The arteries of the rectum spring- from three sources, viz., the superior hemorrhoidal branches from the inferior mesenteric : the middle hemorrhoidal branches from the internal iliac directly or indirectly ; and, lastly, the external or inferior hemorrhoidal branch from the pudic artery. The arrangement of the vessels is not the same throughout the rectum. Over the greater part the arteries penetrate the muscular coat at short intervals, supplying its layers as they pass through, and, at once dividing into small branches in the submucosa, form a network by their inter-communication. Towards the lower end, for four or five inches, the arrangement is different. Here the vessels, having penetrated the muscular coat at different heights, assume a longitudinal direction, passing in parallel lines towards the end of the bowel. In their progress downwards they communicate with one another at intervals, and they are very freely connected near the orifice, where all the arteries join by transverse branches of considerable size. (Quain, Diseases of the Rectum.) The veins are very numerous, and form a complex interlacement resembling that of the arteries just described, and named the hemorrhoidal plexus. After following a longitudinal course upwards similar to that of the arteries which they accompany, they end partly in the internal iliac vein by branches which accompany the middle hemorrhoidal artery, and partly in the inferior mesenteric vein. Hence, the blood from the rectum is returned in part into the vena cava, and in part into the portal system. The lymphatics enter some glands placed in the hollow of the sacrum, or those of the lumbar series. The nerves are very numerous, and are derived from both the cerebro-spinal and the sympathetic systems. The former consist of branches derived from the sacral plexus : and the latter, of offsets from the inferior mesenteric and hypo- gastric plexuses. THE ANUS AND ITS MUSCLES. The anus, or lowTer opening of the alimentary canal, is a dilatable orifice, surrounded internally by the mucous membrane, and externally by the skin, which two structures here become continuous with and pass into each other. The skin around the borders of the anus, which