THE EYE. 583 ORGANS OF THE SENSES. In this place will be described the organs of sight, hearing, and smell—the higher organs of special sense. The description of the organ of touch is given with the skin, and that of the organ of taste with the tongue. THE EYE. The organ of vision, strictly speaking, consists only of the ball or globe of the eye ; but connected with the eyeball externally are muscles, nerves, and blood-vessels, elsewhere described, as well as other parts specially destined for its protection, and known as the appendages of the eye (tutamina oculi), of which an account will first be given. THE EYELIDS AND CONJUNCTIVA. The eyelids (palpebral) are moveable portions of integument, strength- ened toward their margins by a thin lamina of dense fibrous tissue. A mucous membrane lines their inner surface, and is reflected thence in the form of a pellucid covering on the surface of the eyeball. This is named the conjunctival membrane or conjunctiva. The upper lid is larger and more moveable than the lower, all the transparent part of the globe being covered by it when the eye is closed ; it is chiefly by the elevation of this lid that the eye is opened, the movement being effected by a muscle (levator palpebrte) devoted exclu- sively to this purpose. At the outer and inner angles (eanthi) of the eye the eyelids are united. The interval between the angles—fissura palpebrarum—varies in length in different persons, and, according to its extent, gives the appearance of a larger or a smaller eye, the size of the globe being nearly the same. The greater part of the edge of each eyelid is flattened, but towards the inner canthus it is rounded off for a short space, at the same time that it somewhat changes its direction; where the two differently formed parts join, there exists on each lid a slight conical elevation—papilla lachrymalis—the apex of which is pierced by the aperture or punctum of the corresponding lachrymal canalicule. In the greater part of their extent the lids are applied to the surface of the eyeball; but at the inner canthus, opposite the puncta lachry- malia, there intervenes a vertical fold of conjunctiva, the plica semilu- naris, which rests on the eyeball; whilst, occupying the recess of the angle at the border of this fold, is a spongy-looking reddish elevation, formed by a group of sebaceous glands which open into the follicles of very fine hairs. It is named the caruncula lachrymalis. The plica semilunaris is the rudiment of the third eyelid (membrana nictitans) found in many animals. It contains a small amount of plain muscular tissue (H. Miiller). Structure of the lids.—The skin covering the eyelids is thin and delicate, and covered with excessively fine, downy hairs ; at the line of the eyelashes it joins the conjunctival mucous membrane which lines the inner surface of the lids. The cutis vera is remarkable for contain- ing ramified pigment cells. Beneath the skin, and between it and the conjunctiva, the following structures are successively met with, viz.: