13 MULTIPLICATION OF CELLS. at one time dispersed through the whole cell and its branches, but at another time they gather into a heap in the central part, leaving the rest of the branched cell vacant, but without alteration of its figure. In the former case the skin is of a dusky hue ; in the latter, pale. Like the movements of the protoplasm, the aggregation of the pigment molecules can be excited through the nerves, both mechanically and electrically. The fact above mentioned, that these movements of cells may be excited by stimulation of the nerves, is especially worthy of note, in as much as it proves that operations effected in and by cells are more or less under the governance of the nervous system. Moreover, the well known influence of mental states over the secretions, and the effects resulting from experimental stimulation of the nerves of secreting glands, although doubtless due in part to changes in the blood-vessels, seem to show that this subjection to the nervous system extends even to the chemical and physical operations which take place in secreting cells. A curious and interesting observation in proof of this is adduced by Kolliker. He found that the light of the firefly, lanwpyris, is emitted from cells in which albuminoid matter is decomposed with production of urate of ammonia, and that the emission of light could be brought on or rendered more vivid by electrical and other stimuli operating through the nerves. The well-known tremulous movement which so often affects minute particles of matter, is not unfrequently observed in the molecular contents of cells ; but this phenomenon depends simply upon physical conditions, and is of a totally different character from the motions of the protoplasm above referred to. Multiplication of Cells by Division.—The amoeboid movements of the protoplasm are directly concerned in the process of subdivision of a cell. This is more particularly to be observed in the division of a free cell—a white blood-corpuscle, for example—in which the process, as described by Klein and others, is, briefly, as follows (fig. 7):—One Fig. 7. Pig. 7.—Stages in the Division of a Colourless Corpuscle op Newt's Blood (after Klein). of the processes of an amoeboid corpuscle, the nucleus of which has previously undergone division, remains unretracted, and into this one of the nuclei from the body of the cell may pass. The protruded part then becomes more and more withdrawn from the rest of the cell, and, finally, by the rupture of the connecting neck of protoplasm, may become entirely detached, breaking away as an independent corpuscle. But the process is commonly of a more simple character, as is the case, for instance, with the process of cleavage, already mentioned in treating of the production of embryonic cells. The actual process of division has now been observed in the ova of many of the lower animals. It is preceded by slow heaving movements of the proto- plasm ; a furrow then appears upon the surface, soon to disappear