403 STRUCTURE OF THE KIDNEYS. muscle ; and, lastly, on the psoas muscle. The external border, convex in its general outline, is directed somewhat backwards towards the wall of the abdomen. The internal border, concave and deeply excavated towards the middle, is directed a little downwards and forwards. It presents a longitudinal fissure bounded by an anterior and posterior lip, and named the hilus of the kidney, at which the vessels, the excre- tory duct, and the nerves enter or pass out. In this hilus, the renal vein lies in front, the artery and its branches next, and the expanded excretory duct or ureter behind and towards the lower part. The upper end of the kidney, which is larger than the lower, is thick and rounded, and supports the suprarenal capsule, which descends a little way upon its anterior surface. This end of the kidney reaches, on the left side, to about the upper border of the eleventh rib, and on the right, half a rib's breadth lower. It is moreover directed slightly in- wards, so that the upper ends of the two kidneys are nearer to each other than the lower ends, which are smaller and somewhat flattened, diverge slightly from the spine, and reach nearly as low as the crest of the ilium. It may here be remarked that, by placing the larger end of the kidney upwards and its flatter surface backwards, or by noticing the relation of the parts in the hilus, the side of the body to which the organ belongs may be determined. Varieties.—The kidneys present varieties in form, position, absolute and rela- tive size, and.number. Thus, they are sometimes found longer and narrower, and sometimes shorter and more rounded than usual. Occasionally one kidney is very small, whilst the other is proportionately enlarged. The kidneys may, •one or both, be situated lower down than usual, even in the pelvis. Instances are now and then met with in which the two kidneys are joined by then lower ends across the front of the great blood-vessels and vertebral column. The conjunct organ has usually the form of a semicircle, the concavity of which is directed upwards—hence the appellation of the horseshoe kidney. Sometimes two united kidneys are situated on one or other side of the vertebral column, in the lumbar region, or, but much more rarely, in the cavity of the pelvis. In other very rare cases three glandular masses have been found, the super- numerary organ being placed either in front or on one side of the vertebral •column, or in the pelvic cavity. Obvious Structure.—The kidney is surrounded by a proper fibrous coat, which forms a thin, smooth, but firm investment, closely covering the organ. It consists of dense fibro-areolar tissue, together with nu- merous fine elastic fibres, and can easily be detached from the substance of the gland, to which it adheres by minute processes of connective tissue and vessels. On splitting open the kidney by a longitudinal section, from its outer to its inner border, the fissure named the hilus (fig. 286, li, li) is found to extend some distance into the interior of the organ, forming a cavity called the sinus of the kidney (s). This is enclosed on all sides ■except at the hilus by the solid substance of the organ ; and is lined by an inward prolongation of the fibrous coat. The solid part consists of a cortical and a medullary substance ; the latter being arranged in separate conical masses named " pyramids of Malpighi," with their broad bases {b, b) directed towards the surface, and their points towards the sinus, where they form prominent papilla. The pyramids are imbedded in the cortical substance, which separates them from each other, and encloses them everywhere except at the papillae, which emerge from it and project into the sinus.