THE PANCREAS. 394 In the duplicative of peritoneum forming the left lateral ligament of the liver, and also in the two fibrous bands which sometimes bridge over the fossa for the vena cava and the fissure of the umbilical vein, there have been found biliary ducts of considerable size which are not surrounded with lobules. These aberrant ducts as they are called, were described by Ferrein and afterwards by Kiernan ; they anastomose together in form of a network, and are accompanied by branches of the vena portge, hepatic artery, and hepatic vein. Structure of the Gall-Madder.—Besides the peritoneal investment and the mucous lining, the gall-bladder possesses an intermediate mus- cular and connective tissue coat, of considerable strength. This con- sists mainly of bands of dense shining white fibres, which interlace in all directions. Intermingled with these are plain muscular fibres, which have principally a longitudinal direction, but some run transversely. This coat forms the framework of the organ, and supports the larger blood-vessels and lymphatics. The nerves form a gangliated plexus in it ; partly also immediately beneath the serous coat (L. Gerlach). The mucous membrane, which is generally strongly tinged with bile, is elevated upon its inner surface into very numerous small ridges, which, uniting together into meshes, leave between them depressions of different sizes and of various polygonal forms. This gives the interior of the gall-bladder an alveolar aspect, which is similar to what is seen on a smaller scale in the vesiculse seminales. These alveolar intervals become smaller towards the fundus and neck of the gall- bladder ; and at the bottom of the larger ones, other minute depres- sions, which may be seen with a simple lens, lead into numerous mucous recesses. The whole of the mucous membrane is covered by columnar epithelium, and it secretes an abundance of viscid mucus. At the places where the neck of the gall-bladder curves on itself there are strong folds of its mucous and areolar coats projecting into the interior. In the cystic duct, the mucous membrane is elevated internally in a similar manner into a series of crescentic folds, which are arranged in an oblique direction, and succeed closely to each other, so as to present very much the appearance of a continuous spiral valve. "When dis- tended, the outer surface of the duct appears to be indented in the situation of these folds, and dilated or swollen in the intervals, so as to present an irregularly sacculated or twisted appearance. In the structure of its wall, the cystic duct resembles the gall-bladder. THE PANCREAS. The pancreas (fig. 282, li i) is a long, narrow, flattened gland of a reddish cream colour, larger at one end than at the other, and lying across the posterior wall of the abdomen, behind the stomach, and opposite the first lumbar vertebra. Its larger end, the head, turned to the right, is embraced by the curvature of the duodenum, whilst its left or narrow extremity, the tail, reaches to a somewhat higher level, and is in contact with the spleen. The pancreas varies considerably, in different cases, in its size and weight. It is usually from 6 to 8 inches long, about 1-| inch in average breadth, and from half an inch to an inch in thickness, being thicker at its head and along its upper border than elsewhere. The weight of the gland, according to Krause and