803 CHANGES AT BIRTH. limbs. The larger portion of the blood, however, which passes into the descend- ing aorta, is sent out of the body to the placenta. This duty is principally per- formed by the right ventricle, which after birth is charged with an office some- what analogous, in having to propel the blood through the lungs. But the passage of the blood through the vessels of the umbilical cord and placenta is longer and subject to greater resistance than that of the pulmonary circulation, and the right ventricle of the foetus, although probably aided by the left in the placental circulation, also takes a large share in the systemic through the lower half of the body ; and this, perhaps, may be the reason why the wall of the right equals in thickness that of the left ventricle in the foetus. Sabatier was the first to call attention particularly to the action of the Eusta- chian valve in separating the currents of blood entering the right auricle by the superior and inferior vena? cava?. (Traite d'Anat., vol. ii., p. 224.) This sepa- ration, as well as that occurring between the currents passing through the aortic arch and the ductus arteriosus into the descending aorta, were illustrated experi- mentally by John Reid. (See art. " Heart," in Cyclop, of Anat. and Physiol., and Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, 1835.) A striking confirmation of the extent to which the last mentioned division of the two currents of the foetal blood may take place, without disturbance of the circulation up to the time of birth, is afforded by the examples of malformation in which a complete obliteration has existed in the aortic trunk immediately before the place of the union of the ductus arteriosus with the posterior part of the aortic arch. CHANGES IN TEE CIRCULATION AT BIRTH. The changes which occur in the organs of circulation and respiration at birth, and lead to the establishment of their permanent condition, are more immediately determined by the inflation of the lungs with air in the first respiration, the consequent rapid dilatation of the pulmonary blood-vessels with a greater quantity of blood, and the interruption to the passage of blood through the placental circulation. These changes are speedily accompanied by shrinking and obliteration of the ductus arteriosus, in the space between the division of the right and left pul- monary arteries and its junction with the aorta, and of the umbilical arteries from the hypogastric trunk to the place of their issue from the body by the umbilical cord ;—by the cessation of the passage of blood through the foramen ovale, and somewhat later by the closure of that foramen, and by the obliteration of the umbilical vein as far as its entrance into the liver, and of the ductus venosus within that organ. The process of obliteration of the arteries appears to depend at first mainly on the contraction of the coats, but this is very soon followed by a considerable thickening of their substance, reducing rapidly their internal passage to a minute tube, and leading in a short time to final closure, even although the vessel may not present externally any con- siderable diminution of its diameter. It commences at once, and is per- ceptible after^ a few respirations have occurred. It makes rapid pro- gress upon the first and second days, and by the third or fourth days the passage through the umbilical arteries is usually completely inter- rupted. The ductus arteriosus is rarely found open after the eighth or tenth day, and by three weeks it has in almost all instances become completely impervious. The process of closure in the veins is slower, there not being the same thickening or contraction of their coats ; but they remain empty of blood and collapsed, and by the sixth or seventh day, are generally closed.