144 NERVOUS TISSUE. Three modes of connection of cells with fibres are described. 1. From a cell, which may have several branched outrunners, one stout unbranched process is continued into a nerve-fibre, at first naked, and probably re- presenting- only the axis-cylinder, then acquiring a medullary sheath and dark borders, and finally a membranous tube or primitive sheath (figs. 89, 90, p. 134). 2. From one or more finely divided branches of a cell, or of more than one cell, equally fine fibrils are prolonged, which coalesce into a pale fibre, having the characters of an axis-cylinder, which then, as in the former case, may in its progress become a dark-bor- dered medullated fibre. 3. The extreme ramifications of a cell or cells, become connected, as in the last case, with fibrils, which join into a nerve-fibre ; but the connection takes place by the intervention of small bipolar cells, which are by one pole continuous with the branches of the larger cell or cells, and by the other with fine fibrils which join into a pale fibre, or into an axis-cylinder of a dark-bordered fibre. Gerlach, and after him Waldeyer and others, have described this last mode of connection, as seen by them in the cerebellum. The statement also derives support from the observations of Lockhart Clarke, on the structure of the olfactory bulb. Along with this indirect connection through small intervening cells, Gerlach supposes that a process or pro- cesses of the large cells pass directly into nerve-fibres ; and should such direct connection take place by the prolongation of an unbranched cell- process into a nerve-fibre, the arrangement would be analogous to that in the ganglia: the simple origin, representing that of the straight fibre from the ganglion-cell, whilst the ramified origin, with the inter- vening small cells, might be compared to that of the superficial or spiral fibre, with its interposed nuclei. The primitive fibrils may, as already stated, be frequently observed to pass through the nerve-cells from one process into another. Wherever this is found it seems reasonable to regard the cells rather as interpolations in the course of the nerves than as actually giving origin to them ; this is more especially the case in those instances in which a comparatively small, nucleated swelling on a peripheral fibre represents a nerve-cell. The fibres of origin of a nerve, whether deeply implanted or not, on quitting the surface of the brain or spinal cord to form the apparent origin or free part of the root, are in most cases collected into funiculi, which are each invested with a sheath of neurilemma. This investment is generally regarded as a prolongation of the pia mater, and in fact its continuity with that membrane may be seen very plainly at the roots of several of the nerves, especially those of the cervical and dorsal nerves within the vertebral canal, for in that situation the neurilemma, like the pia mater itself, is much stronger than in the cranium. The funiculi, approaching each other if originally scattered, advance towards the foramen of the skull or spine which gives issue to the nerve, and pass through the dura mater, either in one bundle and by a single aperture, or in two or more fasciculi, for which there are two or more openings in the membrane. The nerve-roots in their course run beneath the arach- noid membrane, and do not perforate it on issuing from the cranio- vertebral cavity ; for the loose or visceral layer of the arachnoid is pro- longed on the nerve and loosely surrounds it as far as the aperture of egress in the dura mater, where, quitting the nerve, it is reflected upon the inner surface of the latter membrane, and becomes continuous with the