243 6, those of the left auricle ; 7, 7', inno- THE HEART. the serous layer of the pericardium is here reflected from the one to the other. In the remainder of its extent the organ is entirely free within the sac of the pericardium. The convex anterior surface looks somewhat upwards as well as forwards towards the sternum and costal cartilages : from these it is partly separated by the pleurae. The lungs also advance over it to some extent, and encroach still farther during Fig. 165.—View of the Heart and Fig. 165. Great Vessels from before (R. Quain). of the anterior and posterior sur- j§jl|j faces, the right or lower border, lUi called margo acutus, is compara- tively thin, and is longer than the upper or left border, which is more rounded and is named margo oUusus. A deep transverse groove, the auriculo-ventricular furroiv, inter- rupted in front by the root of the pulmonary artery, divides the heart into the auricular and the ventricular portions; and on the ven- tricular portion two longitudinal furrows, situated one on the anterior, the other on the posterior surface, mark its division into a right and left chamber. They extend from the base of the ventricular portion, and are continuous one with the other a little to the right of the apex, which thus appears to be formed entirely by the wall of the left ventricle. The anterior longitudinal furrow (fig. 165 + + ) is nearer to the left border, whilst the posterior furrow approaches nearer to the right border of the heart, the right ventricle forming more of the anterior, and the left more of the posterior surface of the organ. In the transverse and longitudinal furrows run the coronary or cardiac * This uncovered part may be marked off on the surface of the chest by two lines drawn from the apex-point to the middle line of the sternum, one horizontal, the other •extending obliquely upwards to between the fourth cartilages. The pulmonary artery has been cut short close to its origin in order to show the first part of the aorta. 1, right ventricle; 2, left ventricle ; 3, root of the pulmonary artery ; 4, 4', arch of the aorta ; 4", the descending thoracic aorta ; 5, the appen- dix and anterior part of the right auricle ; minate veins joining to form the vena cava superior ; 8, inferior vena cava below the diaphragm ; 9, one of the large hepatic veins ; +, placed in the right auriculo- ventricular groove, points to the right or posterior coronary artery ; +, +, placed in the anterior interventricular groove, indicate the left or anterior coronary artery. inspiration, so as in that condi- tion to leave only a triangular part, not more than two square inches in extent, uncovered.* The posterior or under surface is flattened, and rests on the dia- phragm. Of the two borders or margins formed by the meeting One-third the Natural Size.