482 THE PERITONEUM. it covers the remains of the urachus in the median line, and the closed umbilical artery on either side, which as it passes from the os pubis to the abdominal wall raises the peritoneum into a well-marked fold, sepa- rating two shallow pits named internal and external inguinal pouches (more fully described with the special anatomy of the groin). In the female the peritoneum passes from the rectum to the upper part of the vagina, and over the posterior and anterior surfaces of the uterus, whence it goes to the bladder. The recto-vaginal pouch, like the recto-vesical, is bounded above by its semilunar folds, and the uterine peritoneum forms at the sides the broad ligaments of the uterus, along the upper border of which the Fallopian tubes receive from it a serous covering ; but at their fimbriated openings the peritoneum is continuous with the mucous membrane lining the tubes. The peritoneum, on being traced to the upper part of the abdomen, is found to line the vault of the diaphragm, adhering moderately to the muscular and firmly to the tendinous part, and continuing down behind as far as the hinder border of the liver and the oesophageal opening. It then passes forward on the liver, forming the falciform, coronary, and lateral ligaments of that organ, already specially described. Turning round the anterior border it passes back on the under surface, but after covering the lobulus quadratus, and arriving at the transverse fissure, it meets with a peritoneal layer from behind, and in association with it, stretches from the liver to the stomach, to form the lesser omentum, as will be presently explained. To the right of this part it invests the gall-bladder, more or less completely, and the under surface of the right lobe, gives a complete covering to the adjacent part of the duodenum, and passes to the upper end of the right kidney, forming here a slight fold, named hepato-renal ligament. It then covers the hepatic flextfre of the colon, and reaches the right colon, on which it has been already traced. To the left of the trans- verse and the longitudinal fissure the peritoneum invests the whole of the left lobe, and stretches out as the long left lateral ligament above and beyond the oesophageal opening. It then passes down over that opening and covers the front and left side of the gullet, spreads over the left end of the stomach, where it passes off to invest the spleen, forming a duplicature named the gastro-splenic ligament, or gastro-splenic omentum, for it is connected below with the great omentum, and often reckoned as a part of it. When the membrane passes from the diaphragm to the oesophagus it forms a small duplica- ture in the angle between them, named the gastro-phrenic ligament; it extends also as a stout and well-marked fold (the costo- or phreno- colic ligament) from the diaphragm opposite the tenth and eleventh ribs to the splenic flexure of the colon, then passes over the splenic flexure, and reaches the left kidney and descending colon, where it has been already described. Omenta.—The arrangement of the remaining part of the peritoneum —that between the stomach, liver, and transverse colon—is somewhat complex, in consequence of the membrane forming in this situation a second and smaller sac, which communicates towards the right with the general cavity by a narrow throat, named the foramen of Winsloiv. This passage, which readily admits a finger, is situate behind the bundle of hepatic vessels which stretches between the liver and commencing duo-