Fig. 568.—Blood-vessels of the Cap- Fig. 568. CORNEA AND VITREOUS HUMOUR. 767 Cornea.—There is at first no aqueous chamber in the eye, and even after the solution of continuity which gives rise to this space has oc- curred, the cavity is not dilated with fluid, till near the time of birth. Even then it is very shallow and the lens is placed very near to the cornea. The formation of the cornea is due to a differentiation of the tissue in the layer of mesoblast which is introduced from the neigh- bouring wall of the head, between the primitive lens-follicle and the corneous epiblast, the cavity of the aqueous humour arising by the separation of the corneous part from a layer of the mesoblastic tissue lying within it. The latter gives rise to the anterior part of the vascular capsulo-pupillary membrane, while a still deeper lamina closely embracing the lens, remaining non-vascular, is converted into the lens capsule. Along with the latter is also formed the suspensory ligament of the lens. Vitreous humour.—The enlargement of the space for the vitreous humour progressing, the cells of the mesoblast which form its foundation "become stellated and very sparse from the effusion of a large quantity of fluid, and the hyaloid membrane surrounding this structure takes its origin from the same mesoblastic elements. Choroid and other membranes.—The mesoblastic substance which surrounds the ocular vesicle externally is the source of a number of SULO-PtJPILLARY MEMBRANE OF A New-born Kitten, magnified (from Kolliker). The drawing is taken from a prepara- tion injected by Tiersch, and shows in the central part the convergence of the net-work of vessels in the pupillary membrane- important parts. Among these may be mentioned first the choroid membrane, the cellular (membrana fusca), fibrous, and vascular layers of which are de- veloped out of the deeper divi- sion of the mesoblastic sub- stance, and to the same source may be traced in a later stage of development the ciliary processes, ciliary muscle and iris ; while the .zonula ciliaris may be regarded as a part of the deeper mesoblastic tissue connected with the formation of the hyaloid membrane and membrana capsulo-pupillaris. The folds of the ciliary processes gradually in- creasing, encroach upon the space outside the margin of the lens and indent the zonula ciliaris and canal of Petit. The sclerotic coat is due to a process of differentiation occurring in the outer layer of the enveloping mesoblastic tissue, which occurs considerably later than those which bring the choroid and the cornea into existence, but there is from the first continuity between the corneal tissue and that of the sclerotic coat. The capsulo-pupillary membrane, already referred to, may be looked upon •as at first a complete fibro-vascular investment of the lens, which owes its origin. VOL. II, 3 d