THE PAROVARIUM. 479 Valentin (Miiller's Archiv., 1838, p. 526), and since maintained as the result of careful observation by Pfliiger (1863), that the ova are at first formed in groups within tubes, which thus constitute an original and characteristic feature in the structure of the ovary. By the elaborate researches of Waldeyer (Eierstock und Ei, Leipzig, 1870, and in Strieker's Handbuch, p. 568,) it was ascertained that the ovigerms or primordial ova derive their origin from the superficial layer of cells or germ epithelium, covering the mass of blastema which lies to the inside of the Wolffian body, and which constitutes the common germinal matrix of the ovary and testicle. According to Waldeyer's observations, while the ovigerms themselves come from the superficial epithelium, and thus exist from an early period of foetal life, the Graafian follicles owe their origin to an outgrowth of the subjacent vascular connective tissue which constitutes the ovarian stroma. Brush-like processes of this tissue growing out from the surface, involve in their meshes the enlarged epithelial cells which form the commencing ova, and at the same time enclose groups of other less developed epithelial cells, which come to be arranged round the larger ovigerms, and thus constitute the commencement of the cells of the membrana granulosa. According to Waldeyer's view, therefore, both the pri- mordial ova and the cells of the membrana granulosa spring from the germ- epithelium of the reproductive blastema, while the wall of the Graafian follicle is a production of the vascular connective tissue of the stroma. A somewhat different view has been presented by Kolliker. as the result of- observations made on the foetus of several animals (Sitz. der Phys. Med. Gesellsch. in Wurtzburg, May, 1874) ; for while he agrees with Waldeyer in referring the first origin of the ova to the germ epithelium, he is inclined to consider the membrana granulosa as proceeding from other cellular elements, existing in con- nection with the ovarian stroma. These cellular elements, he conceives, are contained in a set of medullary cords or canals extending upwards into the ovary from its attached border, and they furnish the cellular coverings to the primor- dial ova by spreading outwards upon them, and enclosing them, first in groups, and later each one singly. He regards these cords as the same which have been described as the epoophoron or remains of the Wolffian body in the ovary. These different views appear to be in some measure reconciled, and new light thrown upon the subject, by the independent observations of James Foulis, made in the human foetus, and in calves and kittens, and which, from observation of the specimens, the writer can in most points confirm (" Development of Ova and Structureof the Ovary," &c.,by Dr. James Foulis, in Proceed, of Roy. Soc. of Edin., April, 1875). By these researches the origin of the ovigerms or primordial ova from the superficial germ epithelium is fully confirmed, and the stroma of the ovary is shown to be produced by a direct growth from the subjacent tissue situated on the median side of the Wolffian body. The nucleus of each epithelial corpuscle becomes the germinal vesicle of the primordial ovum : a nucleolus soon appears within (the macula), and a clear homogeneous protoplasm collecting round the vesicle, forms the commencement of the yolk. The enclosure of the primordial ova in a Graafian follicle takes place by the outgrowth of processes of the connective tissue of the stroma, so that the former, being surrounded by these processes, become more and more embedded in the substance of the ovary. At the same time, however, the germ-epithelium corpuscles increase in number by proliferation, and extending themselves inwards are in their turn enclosed singly or in clusters by the processes of the stroma. But what is most important and novel in these observations is this, that Dr. Foulis has traced the formation of the cells of the membrana granulosa to the nuclei of the fibro- nuclear tissue constituting the stroma, which gradually insinuate themselves round each primordial ovum, along with the processes of the vascular tissue of the stroma which afterwards forms the wall of the follicle. The connective- tissue nuclei which first surround each ovigerm are comparatively few in number; but they soon increase by cell multiplication, and form the complete membrana granulosa by which the follicle is lined. On the subject of the ovum, in addition to the works previously quoted, the following may be mentioned :—Martin Barry's Researches on Embryology, hi VOL. II. I I