035 THE TYMPANUM. the upper part of the pharynx. From the tympanum it is directed forwards and inwards, with a slight inclination downwards ; its entire length is about an inch and a half. The osseous division of the Eustachian tube, already described in the Osteology, is placed at the angle of junction of the petrous portion of the temporal bone with the squamous portion. The anterior part of the tube is formed of a tri- angular piece of cartilage, the edges of which are slightly curled round towards each other, leaving an interval at the under side, in which the canal is completed by dense but pliable fibrous membrane. The tube is trumpet-shaped, being narrow, behind, and gradually expanding until it becomes wide in front ; the anterior part is compressed from side to side, and is fixed to the inner pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone. The anterior opening is oval in form, and is placed obliquely at the side and upper part of the pharynx, into which its prominent margin projects behind the lower meatus of the nose, and above the level of the hard palate. Through this aperture the mucous membrane of the pharynx is continuous with that which lines the tympanum, and under certain conditions air passes into and out of that cavity. SMALL BONES OP THE EAR. Three small bones (ossicula auditus) are contained in the upper part of the tympanum: of these, the outermost {ynalleus) is attached to the mem- brana tympani ; the innermost (stapes) is fixed in the fenestra ovalis; and the third {incus) placed between the other two, is connected to both by articu- lar surfaces. The malleus and incus are in direction nearly vertical, the stapes horizontal. They form together an angular and jointed connecting rod be- tween the membrana tympani and the membrane which closes the fenestra ovalis. The malleus or hammer bone (fig. 448, a), consists of a central thicker portion, with processes of different lengths. At the upper end of the bone is a rounded head (capitulum) (fig. 448, A, 1), which presents in- ternally and posteriorly an ir- regularly oval surface covered with cartilage, for articulation with the incus. Below the head is a constricted neck (cervix); and beneath this another slight enlargement of the bone, to which the processes are at- tached. The handle (manubrium) of the malleus (fig. 448, a, 2) is a tapering and slightly twisted process, compressed from before back- Fig. 448.—Bones of the Tympanum of the Right Side (from Arnold). Twice the Natural Size. A, malleus ; 1, its head ; 2, the handle ; 3, long or slender process ; 4, short process. B, incus ; 1, its body; 2, the long process with the orbicular process ; 3, short or posterior process ; 4, articular surface receiving the head of the malleus. C, stapes ; 1, head ; 2, posterior cms ; 3, anterior crus ; 4, base. C*, base of the stapes. D, the three bones in their natural connection as seen from the out- side ; a, malleus ; b, incus ; c, stapes.