527 EXTERNAL SURFACE. The superior, or first frontal convolution (s. fr. c), at the margin of the great longitudinal fissure, commonly commences superficially at the upper end of the ascending frontal convolution, and extends to the anterior extremity of the hemisphere, where, tapering, it passes over to the orbital surface. The inner aspect of this convolution appears on the median surface of the hemisphere. The middle or second frontal convolution (m. fr. c.) arises deeply or super- ficially from the ascending frontal below the last, and runs thence to the anterior extremity of the hemisphere. It is usually broad, and often much subdivided. The inferior or third frontal convolution (i. fr. c.) forms the lower and outer portion of the frontal lobe. It arises superficially, or sometimes deeply, from the lower extremity of the ascending convolution, just above the bifurcation of the fissure of Sylvius, arches round the ascend- ing limb of that fissure, and extends to the anterior extremity of the hemisphere. Fissures of the frontal surface.—The transverse frontal fissure, " prse- central sulcus," lies in front of the ascending frontal convolution, and parallel to the fissure of Rolando. Its extent depends on the mode of origin of the superior, middle, and inferior frontal convolutions from the ascending frontal. When these arise superficially the fissure is interrupted, and may be inconspicuous; when the inferior frontal con- volution arises deeply, this fissure is continuous with the fissure of Sylvius, of which it has, in consequence, been regarded as the ascending limb. Two anteroposterior fissures, the superior and inferior frontal sepa- rate the corresponding convolutions from the middle frontal: they are often very irregular, being bridged over by secondary convolutions. Orbital Surface (fig. 375) presents two fissures; the olfactory sulcus, straight, parallel with the great longitudinal fissure, and lodging the olfactory bulbs. The orbital sulcus, irregular, often triradiate, lying in the centre of the lobule. Convolutions.—Between the olfactory sulcus and the longitudinal fissure is the straight convolution, continuous, at its anterior extremity, with the superior frontal. Three convolutions are sometimes described as lying around the orbital sulcus, and named according to their position, the inner, the anterior, and the outer or posterior orbital convolutions. The Parietal Lobe (fig. 370) lies behind the frontal and in front of the occipital lobe. Below it is the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. It is bounded in front by the fissure of Rolando, behind by the parieto- occipital fissure, and by an arbitrary continuation of the line of that fissure to the outer boundary. Internally it is bounded by the great longitudinal fissure, and externally by the posterior limb of the fissure of Sylvius as far as this preserves its horizontal direction, and then by a line continuing that direction to the posterior boundary. Fissure. The intra-parietal fissure (fig. 370, int.par. f.) arches through the parietal lobe, commencing in its anterior inferior angle, where it is sometimes, though rarely, continuous with the fissure of Sylvius. It ascends at first parallel to the fissure of Rolando, and then turns back- wards horizontally to the back of the lobe, extending nearly to the termi- nation of the external portion of the parietooccipital fissure, past which VOL. II. M M