REPRODUCTIVE AND URINARY ORGANS. as to take the form of an elongated duct known as the ductus viiello- intestinalis (see figs. 510 and 512). As the parts constituting the face are at first entirely absent, there is necessarily no cavity corresponding to the mouth, but as the struc- tures which give rise to the jaws and face come to be developed below the cranium, the buccal and nasal cavities are generally deepened by the increasing projection of these parts, and the mouth at last communi- cates with the forepart of the primitive alimentary canal by an opening formed into it at the fauces. The mouth, therefore, derives its lining from the epiblast andfforms no part of the original hypoblastic inflection which gives rise to the pharyngeal cavity. The posterior opening of the alimentary canal is formed at a con- siderably later period than that of the fauces. When first produced by the solution of continuity in the posterior reflection of the blastodermic- layers, it represents in mammals as well as in birds a cloaca, or part of the primitive intestine common to the alimentary canal and the genito- urinary passages. Reproductive and urinary organs.—As completing the present short notice of the development of the rudiments of the principal organs of the embryo, there may, lastly, be mentioned the temporary organs named the Wolffian bodies, with their ducts and associated parts, which are the precursors of, and are very constantly and intimately associated with, the first origin and subsequent evolu- tion of the reproductive and urinary organs. These bodies, when fully formed, constitute a pair of symmetrical organs which occupy nearly the whole extent of the abdominal cavity, and consist mainly of short transverse tubes presenting a glomerular vascular structure very similar to that which exists in the glandular structure of the permanent kidneys. They have thus been named the primordial kidneys (see fig. 513, W, p. 702). The Wolffian bodies arise mainly in connection with the central portion of the mesoblast, and as the permanent kidneys and their ducts, the testicles and ovaries, and the respective male and female passages are in their origin all intimately connected with the Wolffian bodies, we may look upon the urinary organs and the internal reproductive organs as equally products of the middle layer. The external sexual Fig. 511.—Human Embryo of about Fig. 511. pour weeks (from Kolliker after A. 0 JL_4 a Thomson), f /, the anterior limb rising as a semi- circular plate from the lateral ridge. (The figure is elsewhere described). organs are integumental in their origin, and may be considered as arising in the epiblast and mesoblast jointly. The Limbs.—The limbs do not commence till after the rudi- ments of all the organs already referred to have made their appearance. They are to be regarded as out-growths from the lateral part of the trunk, and take their origin by a sort of budding out or extension of the elements composing the