Fig. 616.—View from before of Fig. 616. DEVELOPMENT OF THE EPIDIDYMIS AND VAS DEFERENS. 82a dymis receives an explanation from that circumstance. As to the coni vasculosi in the upper part of the epididymis, it has been customary to regard them as produced by a transformation of the tubes and duct in the upper part of the Wolffian body, according to the views most fully given by Kobelt; but, accord- ing to the more recent observations of Banks, the origin of the coni vasculosi is most probably due to a process of development occurring in a new structure or mass of blastema which had been previously observed by Cleland, and which is formed in connection with the upper end of the Wolffian body, and close to the Miillerian duct. Within this blastema Cleland showed that the tubes of the efferent seminal vessels and the coni vasculosi, together with the tube which connects them, are formed anew, while the tubes of the lower primordial-kidney part of the Wolffian body are undergoing an atrophic degeneration. This has been confirmed by the detailed observations of Banks, who has further shown the continuity of their uniting tube with the Wolffian excretory duct. According to this view, the caput epididymis must be regarded, not simply as a conversion of the upper part of the Wolffian body, but rather as a new forma- tion, or superinduced development of tubes in blastema connected with it. The coni vasculosi, so formed, become connected with the body of the testicle by means of a short straight cord, which is afterwards subdivided into the vasa efferentia. The peritoneal elevation descending from the testis towards the lower extremity of the Wolffian body, is the upper part of the plica gubernatrix, and becomes shortened as the testicle descends to meet the lower end of the epidi- dymis; the peritoneal elevation. which passes down into the scrotum, and is continuous with the other, is the more important part of the plica gubernatrix, connected with the gubernaculum testis. The spermatic artery is originally a branch of one of those which go to the Wolffian body, and ascend from the surface of the Wolffian body to the upper part of the testis, along the ligaments connecting them ; but, as the testis descends, the artery lies entirely above it, and the secreting substance of the Wolffian body remains adherent to it; and hence it is that the organ of G-iraldes, which consists of persistent Wolffian tubules, is found in a position superior to the epididymis. (For a fuller account of this subject the reader is referred to Banks " On the Wolffian Bodies," Edin 1864.) the Adult Testis and Epididy- mis (from Farre, after Kobelt). a, a, convoluted tubes in the head of the epididymis developed from tbe upper part of the Wolffian body ; b and /, hydatids in the head of the epididymis ; c, coni vasculosi ; cl, vasa aberrantia ; h, remains of the duct of Muller with i, the hydatid of Morgagni at its upper end ; I, body of the testis. The Descent of the Testicles. —The testicles, which are origin- ally situated in the abdominal cavity, pass down into the scrotum before birth. The testicle enters the internal inguinal ring in the seventh month of foetal life : by the end of the eighth month it has usually descended into the scrotum, and, a little time before birth, the narrow neck of the peritoneal pouch, by which it previously communicated with the general peritoneal cavity, becomes closed, and the pro- cess of peritoneum, now entirely shut off from the abdominal cavity, remains as an independent serous sac. The peritoneal pouch, or processus vaginalis, which passes down into the scrotum, precedes the testis by some time in its descent, and into its posterior part there projects a considerable columnar elevation