VARIETIES OF CONNECTIVE TISSUE. 69 albumin, but not gelatin. In the general course of development of the tissue, fibres, both white and elastic, are formed in the soft matrix, and finally this substance in a great measure disappears. But in certain cases the course is different. The cells may disappear, only the jelly remaining, as in the vitreous humour of the eye; or the corpuscles may branch out and join together in form of a network in the jelly, with the nuclei persisting at the spots whence the threads diverge. The areolar tissue surrounding and imbedding the vessels in the umbilical cord consists of fusiform and ramified corpuscles associated with white fibrillar bundles and elastic fibres, along with much of the soft matrix, which is persistent at the time of birth and is known as the jelly of Wharton. 2. Hetiform* connective tissue; Reticular tissue, and Cytogenous tissue (Kolliker); Adenoid tissue (His). In this case the matrix dis- appears : neither white nor elastic fibres are developed, but the ramified corpuscles unite together into a reticular or fine trabecular struc- ture (fig. 41) ; either re- taining their nuclei as at a, or losing them and then forming a fine net- work of simple fibres without nuclei as at b. That in both forms the tissue is constructed of ramified corpuscles is shown by its withstand- ing boiling in water, whilst it readily dis- solves in hot alkaline solutions. This form of connective tissue enters into the construction of adenoid tissue? from the meshes of which the lymph- certam organs and tex- corpuscles have been washed out, except at c, where tures, where it Serves as they are left (after His, slightly altered). a supporting framework to their peculiar elements and their nourishing blood-vessels, and thus becomes a " sustentacular" tissue (Stiitzgeivebe, Germ.). In this way it forms a trabecular network within the lymphatic glands, containing the lymph-corpuscles in its meshes (as at c). So also it is found in the solitary and agminated glands of the intestine, the tongue, and tonsils ; in the thymus gland ; in the spleen; and in the tissue of the intestinal mucous membrane at certain parts ; in all which situations the meshes contain corpuscles of similar external character with those in the lymphatic glands. But, although thus related to glands and thence named " adenoid " tissue, it exists also as a sustaining structure in the brain and spinal cord, where, with finer branches and closer meshes, it forms an extremely delicate framework supporting ^the proper nervous substance, and has been called the reticulum (Kolliker). * We use the term " retiform," not because it signifies more or less than " reticular," but because the latter term is not unfrequently applied to areolar tissue. Fig. 41. Fig. 41.—Thin Section from the Cortical Part of a Lymphatic Gland, magnified. A network of fine trabecule formed by retiform or