RELATIONS OF THE DECIDUA. 715 from an inch to an inch and a half, and the uterus has nearly doubled the size which it presents in the unimpregnated state, the swelling formed by the ovum and decidua projects strongly like a tumour within the uterine cavity. The membrane of the other parts of the uterus has also undergone progressive increase in its thickness by decidual hyper- trophy, so that, having become, as it were, too wide for the capacity of the cavity, it is thrown into a number of grooves enclosing irregular folds and mammillary projections, but still exhibiting throughout the peculiar features of the mucous lining membrane. On the side of the ovum which is towards the uterine wall, there is also a layer of decidua, in which the villi of the chorion are imbedded. At this place, from the sixth to the eighth week, these villi begin to be more thickly set and of larger size, and to undergo a more complex ramifica- tion than on the other sides; and as at the same time there is a correspond- ing increase in the decidual substance, these villi become more and more closely involved in it, and there is thus established the commencement of that more intimate combination of foetal villi and decidual substance, which by its progressive development in the two or three following- weeks, gives rise to the formation of the placenta. By the changes now described there has become apparent the dis- tinction of the three portions of decidua usually recognised by authors, viz., decidua vera, decidua reflexa, and decidua serotina. The first of these is that portion of the altered membrane which lines the general cavity of the uterus in every part except that occupied by the attach- ment of the ovum ; the decidua reflexa is that which covers the ovum as it projects into the uterine cavity, and which is continuous with the decidua vera at the base of the swelling. The name of decidua serotina has been somewhat variously employed by authors ; but may, in the meantime, be most suitably applied to the whole of the decidual substance intervening between the ovum and the uterus, and which may include, therefore, both that which is concerned in the formation of the placenta, and the distinct layer of decidual sub- stance which at a later period is found covering the uterine surface of the placenta. The cavity of the decidua, which intervenes between the decidua vera and decidua reflexa, and which subsists during the first half of the period of pregnancy, is obviously the same as the original uterine cavity, and, so long as it remains open, naturally communicates with the Fallopian tubes at the upper angles, and the canal of the cervix at the lower. In the last three months of pregnancy, however, this cavity is completely obliterated by the union of the decidua vera and reflexa into one layer over the whole of their extent, so that when afterwards much extended and reduced to a comparatively thin and irregular stratum of substance, they are at birth thrown off as one membrane along with the other envelopes of the foetus. As the human ovum has never been observed in the progress of its incapsulation, the exact manner in which this occurs is still involved in doubt. From the various observations, however, already referred to on early ova which have undergone recent incapsulation, and the know- ledge of what occurs in animals, it may be conjectured, as first suggested by Sharpey (Baly's transl. of "Midler's Physiology," 1842, p. 1580) that the minute ovum when it arrives in the uterus may be sunk or imbedded in the soft or spongy substance of the mucous membrane, and