233 DUCTLESS GLANDS. discharged when the purposes of the economy so demand. The reser- voir of the urine receives the whole of the secreted fluid ; in the gall- bladder, on the other hand, only a part of the bile is collected. The vesiculae seminales afford another example of these laterally appended reservoirs. The ducts are constructed of a basement-membrane and lining of epithelium, and in their smaller divisions there is nothing more; but in the larger branches and trunks a fibro-vascular layer is added, as in the ordinary mucous membrane, with which many of them are continuous, and with which they all agree in nature. A more or less firm outer coat, composed of connective tissue, comes in many cases, to surround the mucous lining, and between the two, or, at any rate, outside the mucous coat, there is in some ducts a deposit of non- striated muscular tissue. The epithelium is usually composed of spheroidal or polyhedral cells at the commencement of the ducts, and is columnar in the rest of their length, though sometimes flattened or scaly, as in the mammary gland. DUCTLESS OR VASCULAR GLANDS. There are certain bodies which have received the name of glands on account of their resemblance in general appearance and structure to the ordinary secreting organs. They differ, however, from the latter in the fact of their possessing no ducts for the discharge of secretion ; so that their elaborated products must be conveyed into the blood by lymphatic or sanguiferous vessels, with both of which they are for the most part abundantly provided. The bodies in question have been termed " ductless " for this obvious anatomical reason : and £< vascular," on certain physiological or theoretic grounds, as they are supposed to effect some change in the blood which is transmitted through them. To this class belong the following bodies:—the spleen, the thyroid body, thymus gland, suprarenal capsules, pituitary body, the solitary closed follicles of the intestines, the Peyerian glands, the follicular glands at the root of the tongue, and also the lymphatic glands. The purposes fulfilled by certain of the organs enumerated are still involved in great obscurity, but the majority have apparently the same fundamental constitution. They are essentially made up of corpuscles having the character of lymph- or pale blood-corpuscles, included and supported by retiform connective tissue, traversed throughout by san- guiferous capillaries, and provided with numerous and large lymphatic vessels : their constituent substance, in fact, agrees in structure with what has already been described as lymphoid tissue. This is in some cases formed into small rounded bodies or pellets, which may be either closely grouped together to form the lobules of a gland-like organ (thymus) or distributed in other tissues (follicular glands of mucous membrane, Malpighian corpuscles of the spleen) : in other cases the lymphoid substance is in large masses, which may take on a more or less reticular arrangement, with lymph-sinuses occupying the inter- stices of the network (lymphatic glands). Some of the organs in question, for example, the thyroid gland, differ altogether from the rest, except in the absence of ducts. The account of these and of the specialities of the "lymphoid" organs is reserved for the part of this work devoted to special anatomy.