THE TRACHEA. 263 Capacity of the auricles and ventricles.—To determine with precision the absolute and relative capacities of the four cavities of the heart, as they exist during- life, is impossible ; and their capacity is so much influenced by their different states of distension, and also by the different degrees of contraction of their muscular walls at the moment of death, that no constant numerical relation, in this respect can be looked for between them. Hence the most opposite state- ments prevail, especially with regard to the size of the ventricular cavities. The auricles are generally stated to be rather less capacious than the ven- tricles. The right auricle is also said to be larger than the left, in the proportion of 5 to 4. (Cruveilhier.) The right ventricle is asserted by some to be larger than the left; by others (Lower, Sabatier, Andral) the two are stated to have an equal capacity ; Cruveil- hier, judging from the effect of injections, has found the left to be the larger of the two. In the ordinary modes of death, the right ventricle is always found more capacious than the left, which is probably owing to its being distended with blood, in consequence of the cessation of the circulation through the lungs : the left ventricle, on the other hand, is found nearly empty, and thus becomes more fully contracted. There are reasons for believing, however, that during life scarcely any difference of capacity exists between the cavities. Size of the ventrictilar opening's.—The right auriculo-ventricular opening, and the orifice of the pulmonary artery, are both found to be somewhat larger after death than the corresponding- openings on the left side of the heart. Then cir- cumference is thus stated by Bouillaud. (Traite des Malad. du Coeur, torn. i. p. 52. Paris, 1835.) Auriculo-ventricular orifices Left Arterial orifices . . . . {^(Pulmonary) Inches and Lines. Max. Med. Min. 4 0 3 10 3 9 3 10 3 6 3 3 2 10 2 7 2 C» 2 8 2 8 2 4 According to observations by Peacock, the average dimensions are somewhat higher :— Auriculo-ventricular orifices (Right, ) Left.. Arterial orifices { Right (Pulmonary) Lett (Aortic) Males. Females. 4 6 4 0 3 7 3 10 3 4 3 3 3 0 2 10 ORGANS OF RESPIRATION. Besides the heart, the thorax contains the principal organs of respira- tion, viz., the kings and a part of the trachea. The larynx, which is affixed to the upper end of the windpipe, and is not only the entrance for air into the respiratory organs from the pharynx, but also the organ of voice, will be described after the lungs. THE TRACHEA AND BRONCHI. The trachea or windpipe (fig. 180, tr.), the common air-passage of both lungs, is an open tube which commences above at the larynx, and divides below into two smaller tubes, right and left bronchi, one for each lung. The trachea is placed in the median plane of the body, and extends from the lower border of the cricoid cartilage of the larynx (c), on a level with the 5th cervical vertebra in the neck (6th, Braime) to a place opposite the 3rd dorsal vertebra in the thorax, where it is crossed in front by the arch of the aorta, and at or immediately below that point