THE SMALL INTESTINE. 360 thirds of the distance round the interior of the tube, and they follow closely one upon another along the intestine. The largest are about 2J inches long and J of an inch wide at the middle or broadest part. Large and small ones are often found to alternate with each other. Some of them are bifurcated at one end, and others terminate abruptly, appearing as if suddenly cut off. Each consists of a fold of the mucous membrane, that is, of two layers placed back to back, united together by the sub- mucous areolar tissue. They contain no part of the circular or of the longitudinal muscular coats. Being extensions of the mucous membrane, they serve to increase the absorbent surface to which the food is exposed, and are said to contribute to delay its passage along the intestine. There are no valvule conniventes quite at the commencement of the duodenum ; a short distance from the pylorus they begin to appear ; beyond the point at which the bile and pancreatic juice are poured into the duodenum they are very large, regularly crescentic in form and placed so near to each other that the intervals between them are not greater than the breadth of one of the valves ; they continue thus through the rest of the duodenum and along the upper half of the jejunum; below that point they begin to get smaller and farther apart; and finally, towards the middle of the ileum, having gradually become more and more irregular and indistinct, sometimes even acquiring a very oblique direction, they altogether disappear. The villi, peculiar to the small intestine, and. giving to its internal surface the velvety or villous appearance already spoken of, are small processes of the mucous membrane, which are closely set on every part of the inner surface of the small intestine, over the valvular conniventes, as well as between them. They are best displayed by placing a piece of intestine, well cleansed from its mucus, under water, mid examining it with a simple lens. The villi are, as a rule, conical and flattened in form (figs. 255, 257): some are more cylindrical (fig. 256), sometimes with an enlarged or clubbed extremity. Occasionally two or three are connected together at their base. Their length varies from Jth to Jrd of a line, or even more; and the broad flattened kinds are about Jth or -Jth of a line wide, and ^th or -J^th of a line thick. They are largest and most numerous in the duo- denum and jejunum, and become gradually shorter, smaller, and fewer in number in the ileum. In the upper part of the small intestine Kranse estimated their number at from 50 to 90 in a square line, and in the lower part at from 40 to 70 in the same space: he calculates their total number to be at least four millions. In structure a villus consists of a prolongation of the proper mucous membrane, and is, like that, covered by epithelium and encloses a net- work of blood-vessels, one or more lacteal vessels, and a few plain muscular fibre-cells, these being all supported and held together by retiform or lymphoid tissue, which at the surface under the epithelium is condensed into a basement membrane upon which the epithelial cells are set. Nerves have not yet been demonstrated in the villi, although they are probably not wanting. Each villus receives, as a rule, one small arterial twig, which runs up the centre to near the middle of the villus, where it begins to break up into a number of capillaries. These form near the surface, beneath the epithelium and limiting membrane, a fine capillary network, from which the blood is returned for the most