THE UTERUS. Nerves.—The distribution of the nerves has been previously described. They are derived from the inferior hypogastric plexuses, the spermatic plexuses, and. the third and fourth sacral nerves. They consist of both medullated and plain fibres ; they are in greatest number in the neck, where they run into the papillae of the mucous membrane. In animals small ganglia have been observed in the submucous tissue con- nected with the plain fibres. According to Frankenhauser, the dark bordered fibres run into the muscles, dividing into plain fibres before they form bulbs, and are at last traceable into the nuclei of the muscular cell-fibres (Chrobak, in Strieker's Handbuch, and Frankenhauser, Die Nerven der Gebaermutter, &c, Jena, 1867). The nerves, especially the dark bordered fibres increase con- siderably during pregnancy. Periodic structural changes in the Uterus.—The changes which accom- pany menstruation and gestation may be shortly indicated here. According to the observations of J. Williams, already quoted, which confirm and greatly extend those of previous inquirers, it appears that at each successive recurrence of menstruation a complete removal of the glandular part of the mucous membrane takes place by a process of softening and molecular disintegra- tion which commences, along with the menstrual discharge, close to the cervix, or at the os internum, and advances progressively towards the fundus during the remaining days of the flow of blood. Previous to this periodic change, in addi- tion to greatly increased general vascularity of the parts, the mucous membrane becomes very much thicker, attaining a diameter of a fifth or even a quarter of an inch, and the utricular glands are proportionally enlarged. The process of disintegration reaches as far as the inner muscular fibres which run between the deepest parts of the glands ; and as the smaller blood-vessels are similarly affected, the hemorrhage is the direct result of their destruction and open condition. The process of restoration of the uterine membrane and its glands, which is effected in the interval, and which begins even before the cessation of the' menstrual flow, proceeds in the same order from the lower end upwards to the fundus of the cavity, and consists in a very rapid proliferation of the cells and nuclei which occupy the interstices of the inner muscular fibres, and among which are probably embedded the deepest parts of the utricular glands. The lining membrane of the cervix does not participate in the changes now referred to. In gestation more extensive alterations ensue, which necessarily affect the size, shape, and position of the uterus, the thickness and amount of substance in its- walls, the dimensions and form of its cavity, and the character of its cervix and of its os externum and os internum. Its weight increases from about one ounce to a pound and a half or even three pounds. Its colour becomes darker, its tissue less dense, its muscular bundles more evident, and the fibres more devel- oped. A very great increase takes place in the muscular tissue, and this increase is the result not only of the enlargement of already existing elements, the fibre- cells becoming enlarged to the extent of from seven to eleven times in length, and from two to five times in breadth (Kolliker), but also of new formation. The increase in length and thickness is general; the new formation occurs mainly in the innermost layers, and continues until the sixth month of pregnancy, when it ceases. The round ligaments become enlarged, and their muscular structure more marked; the broad ligaments are encroached upon by the intrusion of the growing uterus between their layers. The mucous membrane and the glands of the body of the uterus undergo an enlargement very similar to that which precedes menstruation, and they subsequently become the seat of peculiar changes, which lead to the formation of the decidual membrane, to be more particularly stated under Development; whilst the membrane of the cervix loses its columns and rugae. The blood-vessels and lymphatics are greatly en- larged, and it is observed that the arteries become exceedingly tortuous as they ramify upon the organ. The nerves, as stated above, undergo also considerable enlargement. After parturition, the uterus gradually but rapidly diminishes till it regains the