697 VASCULAR SYSTEM. While the heart or propelling organ is being formed within the body of the embryo, the greater number of the primitive blood-vessels are developed in the peripheral part of the blastoderm in the vascular and transparent areas, and comparatively few arise in the embryo ; these last consisting at first only of the two vessels, the primitive double aorta, which carry the blood from the heart to the arteries distributed in the peripheral area, and the corresponding venous trunks which return the blood from the area to the centre of the circulation. These primitive vessels become afterwards the omphalo-mesenteric arteries and veins of the yolk-sac. Fig. 509. Pig. 509.—Diagrammatic Outlines of the Heart and Primitive Vessels op the Embbto Chick as seen from below and enlarged. a, soon after the first establishment of the circulation ; b, c, at a somewhat later period ; 1, 1, the veins returning from the vascular area ; 2, 3, 4, the heart, now in the form of a notched tube ; 5, 5, (upper) the two primitive aortic arches ; 5, 5, (lower) the primitive double aorta ; A, the single or united aorta ; 5', 5', the continuation of the double aortse beyond the origin of the large omphalo-mesenteric arteries, 6, 6. The first rudiment of the heart consists of an elongated tubular contractile chamber hollowed out of a mass of mesoblastic cells in front of the reflection of the cephalic fold into the flat part of the blasto- derm. This tube is divided into two at its anterior and posterior extremities, and perhaps it is originally entirely double. Posteriorly the heart-chamber receives the nascent blood from the entering venous channel on each side, and anteriorly it opens into two arterial vessels, which passing one on each side of the primitive pharyngeal cavity, and turning backwards below the protovertebral plates, form the two primitive aortse before mentioned, from each of which by a sudden bend outwards, as observed in birds, the omphalo-mesenteric arteries pass off into the vascular area. There is, however, some difference in the number and form of these arteries in birds and mammals, but in all of them the first circulation begins in a similar vascular area, and among the earliest veins formed is a circular or terminal sinus