INTRINSIC MUSCLES OF TONGUE. 331 •superjacent epithelium. Here and there the mucous membrane exhibits recesses or crypts (fig. 232), either simple or surrounded by smaller ones which open into them. The walls of these recesses are generally studded with lymphoid no- dules ; and they receive many of the ducts of the mucous glands. B. — Muscular Sub- stance.—The substance of the tongue is chiefly com- posed of muscular fibres running in different but de- terminate directions. Many belong to muscles which enter at its base and under surface, and attach it to other parts: these are called the extrinsic muscles of the tongue, and are elsewhere described. Others which constitute the intrinsic or proper muscles, and are placed entirely within the substance of the organ, will be here more particularly noticed. They are as follows :— The lingualis snperficialis (noto-glossus, Zaglas), consisting mainly of longitudinal fibres, is placed on the upper surface of the tongue, immediately beneath the mucous membrane, and is traceable from the apex of the organ backwards to the hyoid bone (figs. 233, 234, I s). The individual fibres do not run the whole of this distance, but are attached at intervals to the sub-mucous and glandular tissues. The entire layer becomes thinner towards the base of the tongue, near which it is overlapped at the sides by a thin plane of oblique or nearly transverse fibres derived from the palato-glossus and hyo-glossus muscles. Accordiug to Zaglas, the fibres of this muscle are directed forwards and outwards. The lingualis inferior (lingualis muscle of Douglas, Albinus, and others) consists of a rounded muscular band, extending along the under surface of the tongue from base to apex, and lying outside the genio- hyo-glossus between that muscle and the hyo-glossus (fig. 234, li). Pos- teriorly, some of its fibres are lost in the substance of the tongue, and others reach the hyoid bone. In front, having first been joined, at the anterior border of the hyo-glossus muscle, by fibres from the stylo- glossus, it is prolonged beneath the border of the tongue as far as its point. The transverse muscular fibres of the tongue (figs. 233, 234, t r) form together with the intermixed fat a considerable part of its sub- stance. They are found in the interval between the upper and lower longitudinal muscles, and they are interwoven extensively with the other muscular fibres. Passing outwards from the median plane, where they take origin from a fibrous septum, they reach the dorsum and borders of the tongue. In proceeding outwards, they separate, and the superior Fig. 232. Fig. 232.—Section of a Lymphoid Crypt from the Root of the Tongue. 30 Diameters. (Kolliker). a, epithelial lining; b, papillae of the mucous membrane ; c, outer part of the crypt, formed of connective tissue ; d, outlet, and e, cavity of the crypt ; g, surrounding follicles.