185 ORIGIN OF LYMPHATICS. phatic trunks. In certain structures, such as the skin, the plexuses consist of several strata, becoming finer as they approach the surface, in respect both of the calibre of the vessels and the closeness of their reticulation, as is shown in figure 125. But even the most superficial and finest network is composed of vessels which are larger than the sanguiferous capillaries. The short anastomosing branches of these plexuses are often of very unequal size, even in the same stratum, some m being dilated and almost saccular, whilst others immediately communicating with these are narrow, so that the network may assume a varicose character (see fig. 124). In some situations the plexuses have much the appearance of strata of intercommunicating cavities, and a characteristic example of this appearance is afforded by the intestine of the turtle after its lymphatics have been injected with mer- cury ; these vessels are then seen to emerge from what has all the appearance of a dense stratum of small rounded saccules filled with mercury and lying beneath the surface of the mucous coat. This appearance, however, is produced by the short distended branches of a very close lymphatic network. Here and there vessels are seen joining the plexuses of origin which arise in the tissue by a blind and often irregular extremity. A long- known and well-marked example of such a mode of commencement is to be found in the lacteals of the intestinal villi, which, although they form networks in the larger and broader villi, arise in others by a single vessel beginning with a blind or closed extremity at the free end of the villus, whence it sinks down to join the general plexus of the intestinal membrane. Lacunar.—In the lacunar mode of origin of the lymphatics, which was shown to exist in the testis by Ludwig and Tomsa, and has since been described in some other glandular organs, the lymphatic vessels proceed from irregular or shapeless spaces in the internal parts ; the spaces, that is, which intervene between the several structures of which the organ is composed. Thus, in a gland, they are the spaces which lie between or surround the blood-vessels, secreting tubes or saccules, partitioning or inclosing membranes, and the like. Though shapeless, or at least of no regular form, these anfractuous cavities are limited and defined by a layer of flattened epithelioid cells, agreeing in character with those of the lymphatic vessels. It may be presumed that their opposite sides are in apposition or in near proximity, as in serous mem- branes, for the lymph deposited in these recesses is not suffered to accumulate, but is drained off by the lymphatic vessels which lead out of them. Indeed, as will be pointed out further on, the serous cavities them- selves may in a certain sense be looked upon as large lymph lacunas, for it has been shown that in various parts they communicate directly with lymphatics by means of definite apertures. In some of the lower animals the lacunar condition of lymphatics has been Fig. 125. Fig. 125.—Lymphatic Vessels op the Skin of the Breast injected (after Breschet). a, superficial, and b, deeper plexus ; c, a lymphatic vessel, which proceeded to the axil- lary glands.