THE TYMPANUM. G33 by skin and mucous membrane. It is here that apertures are liable to become formed in the membrane as a consequence of inflammation. The membrane is supplied with, blood-vessels, but they are chiefly con- fined to the skin and mucous membrane covering- the surfaces ; a few are, however, found in the proper fibrous membrane, and form a communication between the two systems above named. Those of the skin are mostly sup- plied by a small artery which passes from above parallel to and along the handle of the malleus. The nerves for the most part accompany the blood-vessels, supplying them and then passing to form a subepithelial plexus both in the cutis and in the mucosa. Lymphatic vessels are, according- to Kessel, tolerably abundant in all three layers. The inner wall of the tympanum, which separates it from the internal ear, is very uneven, presenting several elevations and foramina. Near its upper part is an ovoid, or nearly kidney-shaped opening—-fenestra ovalis (fig. 446, 2), which leads into the cavity of the vestibule. This opening, the long diameter of which is from before backwards, with a slight inclination downwards in front, is occupied in the recent state by the base of the stapes, and the annular ligament connected with that plate of bone. Above the fenestra oralis, and between it and the roof of the tympanum, a ridge indicates the position of the aque- duct of Fallopius, as it passes backwards, containing the portio dura of the seventh nerve. Below is a larger and more rounded elevation, caused by the projection outwards of the first turn of the cochlea, and named the promontory, or tuber cochleae (fig. 446, 4) ; it is marked by grooves, in which lie the nerves of the tympanic plexus. Fig. 446. Fig. 446.—Inner Wall op the Osseous Tympanum as exposed by a Longitudinal Section op the Petrous and Mastoid Bone (from Gordon). 1, opening of the tympanum into the mastoid cells; 2, fenestra ovalis ; 3, fenestra rotunda ; 4, promontory ; 5, aqueduct of Fallopius, or canal of the facial nerve; 6, junction of the canal for the chorda tympani with the aqueduct ; 7, processus cochleari- formis ; 8, groove'above it for the tensor tympani muscle; 9, Eustachian tube; 10, anterior orifice of the carotid canal. Below and behind the promontory, and somewhat hidden by it, is a slightly oval aperture named fenestra rotunda, which lies within a funnel-shaped depression (fig. 446, 3). In the macerated and dried bone the fenestra rotunda opens into the scala tympani of the cochlea ; but, in the recent state, it is closed by a thin membrane.