x x 2 EMBEYOLOGY.— THE OVUM. G7a EMBRYOLOGY; OK, DEVELOPMENT OF THE FCETUS AND ITS OEGANS. It is proposed to bring together in the present Section a short state- ment of the manner in which the parts of the body originate in the embryo, and acquire by development in the course of foetal life their complete form and structure. The collected facts bearing upon this subject constitute the department of anatomy known as Embryology, Embryological or Foetal Anatomy, or Foetal development,—a knowledge of which is not only most interesting in itself, but is also of great importance for the elucidation of adult human anatomy and the whole science of Organic Morphology. Although much attention has been given to the structure of the human foetus at different periods of its growth, yet the materials are still wanting for a detailed history of its early development; accord- ingly it is necessary for further elucidation to have recourse to the information obtained by studying the process in animals. But this, illustration from analogy is fully warranted by the general conformity in the plan of development which has been ascertained to prevail among the higher vertebrate animals, and by the agreement with this- plan of the more important phenomena which it has been possible to observe in the human species. In what follows, therefore, while the- main object will be to state the more important facts which have been ascertained as to the development of the human ovum and embryo, the history of the phenomena as they occur in birds and mammals will also be referred to in so far as it tends to throw light on human, embryology. 1. THE OVUM : ITS MATURATION, FECUNDATION AND SEGMENTA- TION: FORMATION OF THE BLASTODERM. The mature ovarian ovum.—The unfecundated ovarian ovum which is approaching maturity, and is about to be discharged from the Graafian follicle and pass into the Fallopian tube, is composed of the following parts, viz. :—1. The firm, almost homogeneous external vitelline membrane, which is termed zona pellucida in mammals ; 2. The yollo substance or ■ vitellus, a mass of soft or semifluid protoplasmic matter, involving numerous granules and oil globules, and containing embedded in it, near the surface ; 3. The germinal vesicle, consisting of a spheroidal delicate enclosing membrane with protoplasmic fluid and fine granules within, and containing in its earlier states if not to the last; 4. The germinal spot or macula. The ovarian ovum, therefore, may be regarded as a complete organised cell, in which the yolk forms the protoplasmic contents, the germinal vesicle the nucleus, and the macula the nucleolus. Distinction of the germ.—In the ovum of the mammal the whole yolk-substance is so uniformly of the same appearance and structure throughout that, but for the presence of the germinal vesicle, little dis- tinction can be perceived between one part and another ; and, further,