THE EYE. 592 THE CORNEA. The cornea (cornea pellucida), the transparent fore part of the external coat, admits light into the interior of the eyeball. It is nearly circular in shape, but is occasionally wider in the transverse direction, and its arc extends to about one-sixth of the circumference of the whole globe. Having a curvature of a smaller radius than the sclerotic, it projects forwards beyond the general surface of curvature of that mem- brane : the degree of its curve varies, however, in different persons, and at different periods of life in the same person, being more prominent in youth than in advanced age. Its thickness is in general nearly the same throughout, viz., from ¥V to -fa of an inch, excepting towards the outer margin where it becomes somewhat thinner. The posterior con- cave surface exceeds slightly in extent the anterior or convex, in conse- quence of the latter being encroached on by the superficial part of the sclerotic ; the cornea being overlapped by the sclerotic (to which it is joined by continuity of tissue) like a watch glass by the edge of the groove into which it is received (see fig. 399). STRUCTURE OF THE CORNEA. The cornea may be described as consisting of three parts—a stratified epithelium in front (fig. 400, 1), continuous with the epithelium of the conjunctiva ; a middle part, substantia propria, or cornea proper (3), continuous with the sclerotic, composed of modified connective tissue ; and a homogeneous elastic lamella (4), bounding it behind, and itself covered with a simple layer of epithelium-like cells (5). Epithelium of the Cornea.—The epithelium covering the front of the cornea is of the stratified kind. The lowermost cells are columnar, with a flattened base, where they rest on the substantia propria, and a rounded apex, upon which a cell of the next layer commonly fits. To the base of each is attached a broad, flattened, strongly refracting pro- cess, which projects under one of the neighbouring cells. Above these columnar cells are several layers of more rounded cells, some of which (the fingered cells of Cleland) have projections from their under surface, which pass between the cells below. The uppermost of these rounded or polygonal cells present well-marked ribs and furrows, similar to those described in the cuticle ; while, quite superficially, are three or four strata of flattened scaly epithelium cells, which retain their nuclei. Indications of division of the cells are observed both amongst the columnar set and amongst the more rounded ones above them (Cleland). The proper substance of the cornea is composed, as before said, of a modified form of connective tissue, all the constituents of which have very nearly the same index of refraction, so that in the perfectly fresh condition it is difficult, even with the best lenses, to make out any structure at all. After death, however, and with the assistance of reagents, it may be ascertained to consist of alternating lamellae of fibrous tissue (about sixty in number, Bowman), the planes of which are parallel to the surfaces of the cornea. The fibres of which the lamellae are composed are nearly straight, have a definite direction in each layer; and cross one another at right angles in the alternate layers (fig. 400,1), d). It must, however, be understood that the latter are not individually distinct, but give off frequent offsets to the layers above