154 NERVOUS TISSUE. single fibrils, forming closer reticulations, and constituting the intra- muscular plexus, which is disposed amongst the muscular fasciculi and fibre-cells. Klebs states that in a single instance only he was able to trace an apparent connection of a nerve with a fibre-cell. According to Julius Arnold, on the other hand, excessively fine straight fibrils come olf at right angles from the nerves between the cells, to be connected with the nucleoli of the muscular fibre-cells, through the substance of which they are said to pass. B. In voluntary muscle.—The nerves of voluntary muscles terminate for the most part in special expansions, to which the term motorial end-plates has been applied. As mentioned in the account of the muscular tissue, the nerves in the voluntary muscle form plexuses, of which the branches grow finer and the meshes closer as they advance further into the tissue. The individual fibres, while still associated in small bundles, undergo divi- sion, and at length single dark-bordered fibres pass olf to the muscular fibres. These nerve-fibres on approaching or reaching a muscular fibre often divide still further. The branches retain their medullary sheath until they reach the sarcolemma, when it abruptly terminates, while the primitive sheath becomes continuous with the sarcolemma (fig. 105, s). The axis-cylinder as it passes into the fibre forms a clear flattened expansion \p, p.) which lies immediately under the sarcolemma, and, according to Kiihne, is always more or less cleft into lobes or branches. Around and beneath this expansion is a layer of granular matter, with large, clear nuclei imbedded in it, each having one or more bright Fig. 105. Fig. 105.—Nerve-Ending in Muscular Fibre op a Lizard. (Lacerta viridis.) a, encl-plate seen edgeways ; b, from the surface, s, s, Sarcolemma ; p, p, expansion of axis-cylinder. In b the expansion of the axis-cylinder appears as a clear network branching from the divisions of the medullated fibre. Highly magnified (from Kiihne). nucleoli. The sarcolemma over the seat of the end-plate, and the plate itself, are slightly raised above the general surface, so that the whole structure has been designated by Kiihne as the nerve-eminence (Nerven- htigel). It would appear that a muscular fibre, when short, has but one