511 PONS VAROLII. to the outside and in front of the vagal nucleus, which gives origin to the fibres of the glossopharyngeal nerve. The post-pyramidal and restiform ganglia have by this time become blended, and constitute the lower part of the inner nucleus of the auditory nerve (fig. 357, E viii'). • At the point of the calamus scriptorius the prominence on each side of the median furrow indicates the position of the lower part of the vagal nucleus. A little higher up these vagal eminences diverge, and between them the hypoglossal nuclei come to the surface. A depression on each side of the vagal eminence separates it from that of the inner au- ditory nucleus. Beneath this groove, just below the striae medullares, lies the nucleus of the glossopharyngeal nerve. The hypoglossal nuclei cease near the striae medullares, but the eminence beneath which they lie blends with that of the vagal nucleus and is continued upwards as the " eminentia teres." Beneath it, above the striae medullares, lies the common nucleus of the sixth and facial nerves. (See p. 513.) THE PONS VAROLII. The pons Varolii or tuoer annulare (mesocephalon of Chaussier), forms an eminence of transverse fibres above and in front of the medulla oblongata, below and behind the crura cerebri, and between the lateral hemispheres of the cerebellum. (Fig. 361.) Its margins are arched ; the superior much more so than the inferior, and at the sides its trans- verse fibres are much more gathered together, forming, at the place where it passes into the cerebellum, a narrower bundle, which is named the middle crus of the cereoellum. In the middle line the pons presents a shallow groove in which the basilar artery lies, and it is perforated by small branches of the artery. The superficial fibres are transverse in their general direction, but while the middle fibres pass directly across, the lower set ascend slightly, and the superior fibres, which are the most curved, descend obliquely to reach the crus cerebelli on each side ; and some of the latter cross obliquely the middle and lower fibres, so as to conceal them at the sides. Internal Structure.—The pons consists of the longitudinal or peduncular fibres prolonged upwards from the medulla oblongata, of its own transverse or commissural fibres, through which the longitu- dinal fibres pass, and of a large intermixture of grey matter. When the superficial transverse fibres are removed, the prolonged fibres of the anterior pyramids come into view ; these, as they ascend through the pons, are separated into smaller bundles, intersected by other trans- verse white fibres, which, with those upon the surface, are all continued into the middle peduncle of the cerebellum (see fig. 358). Opposite the lower part of the pons, behind the fibres from the ante- rior pyramids, is another set of transverse fibres, which have a very uniform course (fig. 359, ). They constitute the trajjeziam, so called because in most of the lower animals, in which the lower fibres of the pons are not developed and the anterior pyramids are small, these transverse fibres partially appear on the surface in an area of a some- what four-sided shape. Externally they curve round, and many are con- nected with, a collection of grey matter above them, called the superior olivary body, and then course outwards, across the fibres of the facial VOL. II. L L