790 DEVELOPMENT OE THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. take place. This consists in the projection inwards of a lateral fold of the wall on the two sides, affecting, however, only the inner and middle coats, and not perceptible externally; so as to divide the cavity of the bulb into two channels, which may be described as respectively anterior and posterior, but which from the spiral direction taken by the folds are somewhat twisted on each other, so that the channel which at the ventricular end is placed anteriorly becomes connected with the right ventricle and forms the pulmonary stem, and that which is placed posteriorly becomes connected with the left ventricle and forms the commencement of the aorta. In the distant portion of the bulb, how- ever, the pulmonary channel is situated to the left and posteriorly, and the aortic channel is to the right and most forwards, and at this end these channels are respectively connected with different aortic arches, giving rise to the permanent pulmonic and systemic vessels in the manner afterwards described. It is further to be noted that the partition of the bulb begins at the remote extremity, and progresses towards the ventricles. There is a time, therefore, during which the ventricular septum, and the septum of the bulb, advancing towards each other, are incomplete and disunited ; and from the difference in their direction it is obvious that there must Fig. 589. Fig. 590. Fig. 589.—View op the Front and Right Side op the Fstal Heart, at four months, the right Auricle being laid open (from Kilian). a, the right auriculo-ventricular opening ; b, a probe passed up the vena cava inferior and through the fossa ovalis and foramen ovale into the left auricle ; c, vena cava inferior ; e, Eustachian valve ; v, valve of the foramen ovale ; s', vena cava superior. Fig. 590.—View op the Posterior and left surface of the Heart of a Fcetus op four months, the left Auricle being opened (from Kilian). a, left auriculo-ventricular orifice ; c, inferior vena cava, through which a probe b, is passed from below, and thence by the foramen ovale into the left auricle; e, left auricular appendage laid open ; o, valve of the foramen ovale seen to be attached to the left side of the annulus ovalis of the septum.