485 THE PERITONEUM. cohere, and it becomes impervious in its lower part. Fat, moreover, accumulates between its lamina? ; long slender branches also pass down into it from the gastro-epiploic vessels. The part of the membrane just described, which is attached to the great curvature of the stomach and transverse colon, which is con- nected also with the gastro-splenic ligament (or omentum), is usually named the great or gastro-colic omentum. This may reach the hepatic flexure, and pass a certain way down on the right colon, and this part has been distinguished by Haller and others as the omentum colicum. The great omentum (proper) usually reaches lower down at its left border, and it is said that omental inguinal hernias are more common on the left side. The description now given of the relation of the omentum to the meso-colon agrees with the appearances most frequently seen in the adult subject, and with the account usually given in English works of Anatomy; the exterior (here also posterior) layer of the great omentum being described as separating from the layer within, belonging to the omental sac, when it reaches the transverse colon so as to pass behind or below that viscus, and as proceeding from thence backwards to the abdominal wall as the posterior or lower layer of the transverse meso- colon. It was, however, long ago pointed out by Haller, and the view has been confirmed by the observations of J. F. Meckel, J. Miiller, Hansen, and Huschke, that in the foetus, and occasionally in the child, or even in the adult, the two ascending layers of the omentum, though adherent to the transverse colon, may be separated from it and from the trans- verse meso-colon, so as to demonstrate that the transverse meso-colon is really a distinct duplicature of peritoneum. This view has been adopted by Holden and Luschka in their more recent works, and has been verified by Allen Thomson. Figures 340 A, and B, show diagram- matically the difference of the two views. It appears, therefore, that a portion of peritoneum, which in the foetus passes above the transverse colon to the back of the abdomen, and is thence reflected forwards as the upper layer of the meso-colon, disappears in the adult ; the peri- toneal layers between which it was interposed having cohered to form the trans- verse meso-colon. It is conceivable that the foetal duplicature may be obliterated by absorption of its substance as the adhesion goes on between the layers, between which it is placed ; or, more probably perhaps, it may be drawn or pushed forward from its place in the progress of visceral development, and thus effaced.