INTERNAL STRUCTURE. 563 medullated nerve-fibres, arranged in interlacing bundles, which give origin to the filaments that pass from the bulb to the nose. The grey substance which lies between this layer and the lower medullated layer contains numerous large granules and small angular and branching- nerve-cells. The granules are most abundant in the upper portion, where they are arranged in flat groups ; the nerve-cells exist chiefly in the lower part, contiguous to the gelatinous nerve-fibres, which pro- bably arise from them. The grey matter of the anterior perforated spot is continuous above with that of the corpus striatum and lenticular nucleus. Thus also continuity is established between the grey matter of the surface and that of the interior of the brain. (C.) grey matter of tee interior.—This may be examined in the series of its deposits from behind forwards. In the crura cerebri, the grey matter is collected into a dark mass, the locus niger, which lies between the crust and the tegmentum, and is also diffused among the fasciculi of the tegmentum ; it extends through the whole width of the crus, and from the anterior edge of the pons to the corpora albicantia, and is continuous behind with the grey matter of the pons and medulla oblongata. It consists of nerve-cells, of various form, about y^g-th of an inch average diameter, somewhat smaller than those of the locus cceruleus, and containing much dark pigment. In the upper part of each tegmentum is a round reddish grey centre, the nucleus of the tegmentum, the red centre of Stilling, the superior olive of Luys, lying near the side of the third ventricle. It is due to a deposit of finely granular substance, containing branching pigmented nerve-cells. Corpora quadrigemina.—In the centre of each grey matter is also found, which is more abundant, although the cells are smaller, in the posterior than in the anterior. In the former, the cells do not exceed o-^o^.th of an inch diameter, but in the latter they are fewer, larger, and more distinctly branched. The grey matter of the corpora quadri- gemina is continuous in front with that of the optic thalamus, and behind with that of the pons, and, by means of the nucleus of the roof of the fourth ventricle, with the dentate nuclei of the cerebellum. Corpora geniculata.—Grey matter occurs in both. The inner con- tains numerous small nerve-cells similar to those of the corpora quadri- gemina, mingled with fibres which pass through it from the same source. Among them are also nuclei lying in clear spherical spaces. The outer is densely filled with large yellow branching and fusiform cells, and among them pass the fibres of the outer portion of the optic tract, gathered in four or six laniinas, which alternate with thicker layers of the cellular substance. The optic thalamus consists of grey matter which is mingled very uniformly with the interlacing fibres of which it is in great measure composed. The cells, most abundant in the anterior tubercle, are large, stellate, and pigmented, about ^th of an inch in diameter. A large proportion of them are fusiform, with two processes, and there :are fewer small cells in the thalamus than in the other ganglia. The middle or grey commissure, connecting the two thalami, consists of small cells, densely massed together, and containing yellow pigment. The corpus striatum contains much grey matter, arranged in two chief masses. One of them, the intraventricular, is seen in the lateral