THE ANIMAL CELL. 8 (figs. 2. and 3): it would however lead us too far to enter into a description of them here. Fig- 2. Fig. 3. Fig. 2.—Textures seen in a Longitudinal Section of the Leaf-Stalk of a Flowering Plant. 1, 2, Polyhedral cells (from mutual pressure). 3, 4, 5, Elongated tubular and prismatic cells. 6, Pitted tissue. 7, Spiral vessels. Fig. 3.—Stellate Vegetable Cells. THE ANIMAL. CELL. Turning now our attention to the animal embryo, we find that it also is entirely made up of cells (fig. 4), rather smaller it is true than those composing the embryo plant, but, like them, consisting of a granular protoplasmic substance (b) enclosing a nucleus (c); this in its turn containing one or more nucleoli. And here, at the outset, we encounter a fundamental difference between the cells com- posing the animal and those composing the vegetable embryo. In the former there is no membranous investment or cell-wall. In con- sequence of this absence of a restraining en- velope the streaming movements of the proto- plasm, which are observable in every cell, whether animal or vegetable, at an early stage of its existence, and in some remain persistent through- out life, are capable, as will hereafter be more fully explained, of effecting changes both in the form and also in the position of the animal cell.* Before proceeding to inquire into the changes which may occur in * The existence of animal cells destitute of envelope, although more insisted on of late years, has been all along recognised in the study of cell-development, and was expressly pointed out by Schwanri himself (Microscopische Untersuchungen, &c, p. 209). It has appeared to some that another name should be used to designate bodies which thus exist in a naked non-vesicular form. Briicke proposed to call them " elementary organisms,'' a term too cumbrous for use. As the first "shaped " products of organisation which appear in the development of all but the lowest organised beings, they might be named "proto- plasts," or, as that name has been already used in a widely different sense—" mono- plasts," but after all, seeing the universal currency of the term "cell," it is probably most convenient and best to adhere to it, with the understanding that in many cases it is used in a conventional sense. Fig. 4. Fig. 4. — Three Cells from early Embryo of the Cat. Highly magnified. J), protoplasm ; c, nu- cleus with nucleolus. The lowermost cell has two nuclei.