152 NERVOUS TISSUE. capsules, the innermost, of course, advancing farthest. Others suppose that the capsules are all successively perforated by a conical channel ■which gives passage to the nerve with its neurilemma, but at the same time has its own proper wall, round which, on the outside, the capsules are attached. We must, however, adhere to Pacini's view, having in silvered preparations observed the layers of epithelioid cells lining the capsules to be directly continuous with those of the neurilemma. The nerve-fibre is single, as it runs along the peduncle, unless when the latter supports two corpuscles ; it retains its dark double contour until it reaches the central cavity, where, diminished in size, and freed from its perineurium, it becomes somewhat flattened, and presents the appearance either of a pale, finely granular, and very faintly outlined band or stripe, little narrower than the previous part of the fibre, or of a darker and more sharply defined narrow line; differing thus in appear- ance according as its flat side or its edge is turned towards the eye. The pale aspect which the fibre presents in the centre of the corpuscle has with some probability been ascribed to its losing the white sub- stance or medullary sheath on entering the cavity. Henle and Kolliker, however, think that it is more likely the result merely of a diminution in size, together with a certain degree of flattening. It sometimes happens that the fibre regains its original magnitude and double con- tour for a short space, and changes again before it terminates ; this is especially liable to occur while it passes through a sharp flexure in a crooked central cavity. The fibre ends by a sort of knob at the further extremity of the median cavity, which is often itself somewhat dilated. The knob, often finely granular, appears to be an expansion of the axis-cylinder, and is sometimes of considerable size. It may present an irregular shape with processes branching outwards from the sides, and in such cases has been taken to represent a nerve-cell; but the characteristic nucleus of the latter is absent. The ultimate destination of the processes is unknown. The axis-cylinder presents the usual longitudinal fibrillation as it passes through the core, and the fibrils become somewhat spread out as they pass into the terminal expansion. In many cases the fibre, before terminating, divides into two branches, as represented in figure 103, b. : a division into three has been observed, but this is very rare. In case of division of the fibre, the cavity is- generally, but not invariably, divided in a corresponding measure, and the inner capsules present a figure in keeping with it. It i& worthy of remark, that the nerve-fibre in its course along the cavity runs almost exactly in the axis of the channel, and it maintains this position even when passing through the abrupt flexures of an irregu- larly shaped cavity. It sometimes happens that a fibre passes quite through one corpuscle and terminates in a second, resuming its original size and dark outline while passing from the one to the other ; and it is said that a nerve-fibre may go through two Pacinian bodies without terminating in either, returning again to the parent nerve in form of a loop (Pappenheim). Other varieties occur, for an account of which the reader is referred to the several authorities already mentioned. A little artery enters the Pacinian bodies along with the nerve, and soon divides into capillary branches, which run up between the capsules. They then form loops, and return by a similar route into a vein corresponding to the artery: a single capillary usually accompanies the nerve as far as the central