THE EYE. 614 of the margin of the inner segment. The outer segments of the cones taper gradually to a blunt point and do not appear to exhibit the superficial groovings, but the transverse markings are somewhat more evident than in the rods (fig. 424), although they do not so readily break up into the separate disks as in the latter. This has been accounted for by supposing the existence of an excessively delicate membrane covering the whole of the outer segment of the cones. In the inner segments, the proportion which the fibrillated part bears to the homogeneous basal part differs in the rods and cones. In the rods the fibrils usually occupy only the outer third of the inner seg- ment (fig. 422), ceasing abruptly at its junction with the middle third; in the cones, on the other hand, they occupy about the outer two-thirds of the segment, only the part nearest the membrana limitans remaining free from fibrils. The fibrils in question are for the most part straight and parallel, and strongly refracting. Sometimes, in the cones, instead of this outer part of the inner segment appearing fibrillated, it appears homogeneous, but is nevertheless well marked off from the inner part by its strong refractivity. This condition of a part of the inner segment of the cones is much better marked in most of the lower vertebrata, where it is met with as a distinct strongly refracting body, situated in the middle or outer part of the segment, and is known from its shape as the " ellipsoid." Moreovei, in these animals, the fibrils are absent from the inner segments of the rods also, a peculiar, strongly refracting " lenticular" body being met with at their outer part, corresponding to the ellipsoid of the cones. Further, in birds, reptiles, and amphibia, there is found in the extreme outer part of the inner segment of each cone a minute globular body, apparently of a fatty nature, which in some is clear and colourless, but in many cones is brightly-coloured of a tint varying in different cones from red to green—red and yellow being the most common. Blue and violet are not met with, but by the action of iodine the colours of all become changed to blue. Sometimes the whole inner segment is found to be slightly tinted of the same colour as the " oil-globule." In all vertebrates below mammals, double- or twin- cones are here and there met with, which resemble two cones joined near their base, but separate and distinct towards their apex. Numerous other differences and peculiarities are found in animals : thus in birds the cones are more nume- rous than the rods; in many reptiles only cones are met with ; while in some fishes (sharks and rays), in most nocturnal mammals, and in the owl, the cones are either altogether absent or are but few and rudimentary. Fig. 425. Fig. 425.—Pigmented Epithelium op the Human Retina (Max Scliultze.) Highly Magnified. a, cells seen from the outer surface with clear lines of intercellular substance between ; b, two cells seen in profile with fine offsets extending inwards ; c, a cell still in connec- into with the outer ends of the rods.