STRUCTURE OF THE RETINA. 609 end of the cell, which is frequently imbedded in the granular substance of the succeeding layer, one or more much thicker processes extend out- wards for a variable distance into that stratum, and after branching dichotomously once or twice become lost in its substance. The number of nerve cells and consequently the thickness of the ganglionic layer in the different regions of the retina varies exceedingly. Over the greater part of the retina they form a single stratum, but in the neighbourhood of the yellow spot they are placed two or three deep. At the spot itself (fig. 426, 2) they are very thickly set (from eight to ten deep); the cells are also much smaller here, and are bipolar. Towards the ora serrata, on the other hand, there is but a single stratum, and that frequently incomplete. 3. Inner molecular layer.—Next in order to the ganglionic layer comes a comparatively thick stratum of a granular-looking substance, which in the perfectly fresh condition presents, under high powers of the microscope, the appearance of a pale, homogeneous matrix with numerous minute clear globules or granules, imbedded in it. The fibres of Midler pass through the substance composing this layer without being directly connected with it ; the offsets of the ganglion-cells can also be traced into it for a greater or less distance ; and, finally, the fine, varicose central processes of the nuclear bodies of the layer next to be described, can be followed a short distance into the layer in question (fig. 422), passing in the direction of the ganglionic and nervous layers. Flattened cells, similar to those noticed in the nerve-fibre and ganglionic layers, are also said to occur in the inner molecular layer, especially on its surfaces (Golgi and Manfredi). The exact nature of the substance composing- this layer is still a matter of doubt. By Max Schultze it was described as a reticulating- mass with numerous fine intercommunicating meshes, supported in which was supposed to be a fine network formed by ramifications of the ganglion-cell processes, which become lost to view in this layer. Schultze further described it as being of the same nature as and intimately connected with the system of Mullerian fibres. Schwalbe, however, has shown that these pass through the inner molecular layer sometimes with a smooth contour and always without giving off lateral offsets to it; and, moreover, that they are of a different chemical nature from the substance of the molecular layer. 4. Inner nuclear layer.—This is mainly composed of several strata of characteristic transparent nucleus-like bodies, which are frequently known collectively as the " inner granules," but are nevertheless of three or four distinct kinds. Those of one kind, few in number, are connected with the fibres of Muller as these pass through the layer, and will most conveniently be described with those fibres. Those of the second kind (fig. 422, 4), by far the most numerous, are prolonged at either end into a delicate fibre, and contain each a clear, round or oval nucleus, with a distinct nucleolus. These last (the nucleus and nucleolus) resemble very closely the analogous structures found in ganglion-cells, and indeed the bodies in question are commonly regarded as bipolar nerve-cells, but with the protoplasm of the cell very small in amount, devoid of granules, and principally collected at either end of the cell. Of the cell processes or fibres which proceed from these ends, the inner one, or that extending into the inner molecular layer towards the gan- glionic and nerve-fibre layers, is finer than the other, is always unbranched, and commonly exhibits minute varicosities similar to those on the ultimate It B 2