VAEIETIES OF EPITHELIUM. 43 received the name of " epithelium ;" # and under the latter appellation, a coating of the same kind exists on nearly all free surfaces of the body. It is true that in many situations the epithelium cannot be actually raised from the adjacent surface as a coherent membrane, still its existence as a continuous coating can be demonstrated ; and, al- though in different parts it presents important differences, its several varieties are connected by certain common characters. The existence of a cuticular covering composed of cells has in one form or other been demonstrated in the following situations : viz., 1. On the surface of the skin. 2. On mucous membranes; a class of membranes to be afterwards described, which line those internal cavities and passages of the body that open exteriorly, viz., the alimentary canal, the lachrymal, nasal, tympanic, respiratory, urinary, and genital passages ; as well as the various glandular recesses and ducts of glands, which open into these passages or upon the surface of the skin. 3. On the inner or free surface of serous membranes, which line the walls of closed cavities in the head, chest, abdomen, and other parts. 4. On the inner surface of the heart, blood-vessels and lymphatics.f Structure in general.—This tissue has no vessels, although nerves have been demonstrated in it in various situations ; apart from these, however, it possesses a decidedly organised structure. Wherever it may exist, it is formed essentially of nucleated cells united together by cohesive matter, often in too small quantity to be apparent. The cells, where consisting of more than one layer, in whatever way they may be produced, make their appearance first in the deepest part of the structure, where they receive material for growTth from the blood-vessels of the subjacent tissue ; then, usually undergoing considerable changes in size, figure, and consistency, they gradually rise to the surface, where, as shown at least in various important examples, they are thrown off and succeeded by others from beneath. In many situations the cells form several layers, in which they may be seen in different stages of progress, from their first appearance to their final desquamation. The layer or layers thus formed take the shape of the surface to which they are applied, following accurately all its eminences, depressions and inequalities. Epithelium when destroyed or cast off, is, for the most part, very readily regenerated. Varieties.—In accordance with the varied purposes which the epi- thelium is destined to fulfil, the cells of which it is composed come to differ in different situations, in figure and size, in their position in respect of each other, their degree of mutual cohesion, and in the nature of the matter they contain, as well as in the vital endowments which they manifest ; and, founded on these modifications of its con- * The term " epithelia," which has passed into " epithelium," was introduced by Ruysch to designate the cuticular covering on the red part of the lips. The word "epidermis" he considered inappropriate, as the subjacent surface is not skin {derma); but, as it is beset with papillte, he named the covering layer " epi-thelia," from eiri and 077A17, a nipple or papilla. The use of the term has, by a not unusual license, been ex- tended so as to signify the same kind of coating when it spreads over non-papillary surfaces. The word "endothelium," recently applied by some German writers to dis- tinguish what has heretofore been spoken of as the epithelium lining the serous mem- branes, and the inner surface of blood-vessels and lymphatics, appears to me a needless innovation, and, considering the literal meaning of the word, not a happy one.—W. S. f The flattened cells which are enumerated under 3 arid 4, and which have a close affinity with the cells of the connective tissue to be afterwards described, may be con- veniently distinguished by the term ' • epithelioid."