DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEXTURES. 6 Mechanical irritation, as scratching with a sharp point, or slightly pinching with the forceps, electricity obtained from a piece of copper and a piece of zinc, or from a larger apparatus if necessary, and the sudden application of cold, are the stimuli most commonly applied. 3. Vis Wervosa.—The stimulus which excites contraction may be applied either directly to the muscle, or to the nerves entering it, which then communicate the effect to the muscular fibre, and it is in the latter mode that the voluntary or other mental stimuli are transmitted to muscles from the brain. Moreover, a muscle may be excited to con- tract by irritation of a nerve not directly connected with it. The stimulus, in this case, is first conducted by the nerve irritated, to the- brain or spinal cord ; it is then, without participation of the will, and even without consciousness, transferred to another nerve, by which it is conveyed to the muscle, and thus at length excites muscular contrac- tion. The property of nerves by which they convey stimuli to muscles, whether directly, as in the case of muscular nerves, or circuitously, as in the case last instanced, is named the " vis nervosa." 4. Sensibility.—We become conscious of impressions made on various parts of the body, both external and internal, by the faculty of sensation ; and the parts or textures, impressions on which are felt, are said to be sensible, or to possess the vital property of " sensibility." This property manifests itself in very different degrees in different parts ; from the hairs and nails, which indeed are absolutely insensible^ to the skin of the points of the fingers, the exquisite sensibility of which is well known. But sensibility is a property which really depends, on the brain and nerves, and the different tissues owe what sensibility they possess to the sentient nerves which are distributed to them. Hence it is lost in parts severed from the body, and it may be imme- diately extinguished in a part, by dividing or tying the nerves so as to cut off its connection with the brain. It thus appears that the nerves serve to conduct impressions to the brain, which give rise to sensation, and also to convey stimuli to the muscles, which excite motion : and it is probable that, in both these cases, the conductive property exercised by the nervous cords may be the same ; the difference of effect depending on this, that in the one case the impression is carried upwards to the sensorial part of the brain, and in the other downwards to an irritable tissue, which it causes to contract; the stimulus in the latter case either having origin- ated in the brain, as in the instance of voluntary motion, or having been first conducted upwards, by an afferent nerve, to the part of the cerebro-spinal centre devoted to excitation, and then transferred to an efferent or muscular nerve, along which it travels to the muscle. If this view be correct, the power by which the nerves conduct sensorial impressions and the before-mentioned " vis nervosa" are one and the same vital property ; the difference of the effects resulting from its exercise, and, consequently, the difference in function of sensorial and motorial nerves, being due partly to the different nature of the stimuli applied, but especially to a difference in the susceptibility and mode of reaction of the organs, to which the stimuli are conveyed. DEVELOPMENT OP THE TEXTURES. The tissues of organised bodies, however diversified they may ultimately become, show a wonderful uniformity in their primordial condition. The results of modern researches have shown that the