RELATION OP PARTS OF HEART TO WALL OF THORAX. 253 and left). From the anterior arises the right coronary artery; from the left posterior the left coronary artery : these vessels being for the supply of blood to the substance of the heart. The capacity of the sinuses of Valsalva is greater, and the tendinous tissue in the valves is more strongly marked at the mouth of the aorta than at the commencement of the pulmonary artery. During the contraction of the ventricle the valves lie at first against the sides of the artery, and allow the blood to flow freely past them ; but when the column of fluid in the artery is partially thrown back by the elasticity of the coats of that vessel, the sigmoid valves are floated back by the refluent blood, and completely close the arterial orifice. When the valves are thus closed, the whole free border and the thin lunated parts are closely applied to each other, and are held together, as well as exempted from strain, by the opposite and equal pressure of the blood on either side, so that the greater the pressure the more accurate must be the closure. The force of the reflux is sus- tained by the stouter and more tendinous part of the valve. The part of the ventricle adjoining the root of the aorta forms a small compartment, the il aortic vestibule " of Sibson, the walls of which are fibrous, or, in some parts, fibro-cartilaginous, so that it remains uncollapsed, and allows space for the bulging flaps of the aortic valve to descend during diastole, besides allowing for the closure of the mitral valve during extreme contraction of the ventricle. POSITION OF THE PARTS OP THE HEART WITH RELATION TO THE WALL OP THE THORAX. The following statements are derived mainly from the observations of Luschka and Allen Thomson: they have been carefully compared with, and, where necessary, modified from those of other observers.* Nearly two-thirds of the bulk of the heart lie to the left of the middle line (fig. 174). The upper edge of the auricles corresponds with a line extending across the sternum from the second right into the first left intercostal space. The right auricle (3') extends laterally from about an inch beyond the right border of the sternum to the middle of the left half of that bone, and vertically from the middle of the second right cartilage to the lower border of the fourth. The point of the right auri- cular appendage is exactly behind the middle line on a level with the upper border of the third costal cartilages (3). The left auricle extends vertically from the level of the second left intercostal space to the upper border of the fourth left cartilage ; and in breadth corresponds to the body of the eighth dorsal vertebra and the head of the adjoining rib. The apex of the left auricular appendage (4) is in the lower part of the second intercostal space or behind the third costal cartilage, about an inch and a quarter from the left of the sternum. * Luschka, Die Brustorgane, 1857; and Anatomie des Menschen, &c, 1863 ; Walshe, Diseases of the Heart and Great Vessels ; Sibson, On the Normal and Abnormal Situation and Structure of the Viscera of the Chest, in Trans, of the Provinc. Med. and Surg. Assoc., vol. xii., year 1842, and in his Work on Medical Anatomy, also article on the Position and Form of the Heart, in Reynolds' System of Medicine, vol. iv. ; Allen Thomson, Notice of the case of E. Groux, &c, with Observations on the Position and Actions of the Heart, in Glasgow Med. Journ., April, 1858 ; Pirogoff, Anatomia Topographica ; Braune, Topographisch-Anatomischer Atlas ; Le Gendre, Anatomie Chirurgicale Homo- lographique. The three last-mentioned publications give the results obtained by means of sections of the chest at different levels, made whilst frozen.