THE OSSEOUS LABYRINTH. G43 canal is shorter than either of the other two : its ampulla is at the outer end, above the fenestra ovalis. Fig. 454. » Fig. 455. Fig. 454.—Views op a Cast op the Interior op the Labyrinth (from Henle). f Such casts may easily be made in fusible metal, and give a very correct view of the form of the different parts of the labyrinthic cavity. A, view of the left labyrinth from the outer side ; B, the right labyrinth from the inner side ; 0, the left labyrinth from above ; s, the superior, p, the posterior, and e, the external semicircular canals ; a, their several ampullae ; r e, fovea hemi-elliptica of the vestibule ; r s, fovea hemispherica ; a v, aqueduct of the vestibule ; / o, fenestra ovalis ; / r, fenestra rotunda ; c, the coiled tube of the cochlea ; c', the first part of tube towards the base with the tractus forami- nosus spiralis. The cochlea (fig. 452, 6) is the most anterior division of the internal ear. When cleared of the surrounding less dense bony substance in which it lies imbedded, it presents the form of a blunt cone, the base of which is turned towards the internal auditory meatus, whilst the apex is directed outwards, with an inclination forwards and downwards, and is close to the canal for the tensor tympani muscle. It measures about a quarter of an inch in length, and the same in breadth at the base. The osseous cochlea consists of a gradually tapering spiral tube, the inner wall of which is formed by a central column, or modiolus (fig. 456, 1), around which it winds. It is partially divided along its whole extent by a spiral lamina (2), projecting into it from the mo- diolus. From this osseous spiral lamina membran- ous structures are in-the recent condition stretched across to the outer wall of the tube, and thus com- pletely separate two passages or scalce, one on each side of the spiral lamina, which communicate one with the other only by a small opening, named helicotrema, placed at the apex of the cochlea. That the cochlea is justly to be considered as an elongated tube, coiled spirally on the modiolus, is illustrated by the simple pouch-like form of the rudimentary cochlea of birds (fig. 455) as well as by the history of its development. The spiral osseous canal is about an inch and a half long, and about the tenth of an inch in diameter in its widest part (at the com- mencement). From this point the canal makes two turns and a half around the central pillar (from left to right in the right ear, and in the opposite direction in the left ear), and ends by an arched and closed extremity called the cupola, which forms the summit of the cochlea. Fig. 455. — Osseous Labyrinth op the Barn Owl (Strix Flammea) (from Breschet). f 1, semicircular canals ; 2, vestibule ; 3, cochlea in the form of a short straight tube.