LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 190 cubical cells, and the larger flattened epithelioid cells of the serous membrane are arranged in a somewhat radiated manner in the neighbourhood of the orifice. When the lymphatic is superficial, it may communicate directly with the surface of the membrane ; in other cases a short straight canal, lined with cells similar to those bounding the orifice, leads from the vessel to the surface. A curious fact has been pointed out by the same observer, viz., that in female frogs and toads the cells lining these short lymphatic canals are furnished writh vibratile cilia. Termination.—The absorbent system discharges its contents into the veins at two points, namely, at the junction of the subclavian and internal jugular veins of the left side by the thoracic duct, and at the corresponding part of the veins of the right side by the right lymphatic trunk. The openings, as already remarked, are guarded by valves. It sometimes happens that the thoracic duct divides, near its termination, into two or three short branches, which open separately, but near each other ; more rarely, a branch opens into the vena azygos—indeed the main vessel has been seen terminating in that vein. Again it is not uncommon for larger branches, which usually join the thoracic duct, to open independently in the vicinity of the main termination ; and this is more apt to happen with the branches which usually unite to form the right lymphatic trunk. By such variations the terminations in the great veins are multiplied, but still they are confined in man to the region of the neck ; in birds, reptiles, and fish, on the other hand, communications take place between the lymphatics of the pelvis, posterior extremities and tail, and the sciatic or other considerable veins of the abdomen or pelvis. The alleged terminations of lymphatics in various veins of the abdomen, de- scribed by Lippi as occurring in man and mammalia, have not been met with by those who have since been most engaged in the prosecution of this department of anatomical research, and accordingly his observations have generally been either rejected as erroneous, or held to refer to deviations from the normal condition. Nuhn, of Heidelberg, affirms the regular existence of these abdo- minal terminations, and refers to three instances which he met with himself. In two of these the lymphatics opened into the renal veins, and in the other into the vena cava.* Lymphatic hearts.—Muller and Panizza, nearly about the same time, but in- dependently of each other, discovered that the lymphatic system of reptiles is furnished, at its principal terminations in the venous system, with pulsatile muscular sacs, which serve to discharge the lymph into the veins. These organs, which are named lymph-hearts, have now been found in all the different orders of reptiles. In frogs and toads two pahs have been discovered, a posterior pair, situated in the sciatic region, which pour their lymph into a branch of the sciatic or of some other neighbouring vein, and an anterior more deeply-seated pair, placed over the transverse process of the third vertebra, and opening into a branch of the jugular vein. The parietes of these sacs are thin and trans- parent, but contain muscular tissue, which here and there appears obscurely striated, decussating in different layers, as in the blood-heart. In their pulsations they are quite independent of the latter organ, and are not even synchronous with each other. In salamanders, lizards, serpents, tortoises, and turtles, only a posterior pair have been discovered, which, however, agree in all essential points with those of the frog. In the goose, and in other species of birds belonging to different orders, Panizza discovered a pair of lymph-sacs opening into the sacral veins, and Stannius has since found that these sacs have striated muscular * Midler's Archiv, 1848, p. 173.