XEEVES. 162 sheath in the same way as the connective tissue-cells become filled with fat in the development of the adipose tissue. At all events, in young nerves the segments are shorter, and there is a layer of homogeneous or finely granular protoplasmic substance outside the medullary sheath, between it and the primitive sheath : as the nerves increase in size this layer, being more and more encroached upon by fatty substance, eventu- ally almost or entirely disappears, except in the immediate neighbour- hood of the nuclei. In the brain and spinal cord at an early period flattened cells are found surrounding the medullated fibres (Ranvier) ; subsequently they disappear or become incorporated with the inter- stitial tissue of those organs, without having produced either a primitive sheath or constrictions on the fibres. The fact that the nerve segments of the peripheral nerves are consi- derably shorter in the young animal points to the existence of an inter- stitial as well as a terminal growth of nerve-fibres. Another mode of formation of nerves has been described by Beale and subsequently by Hensen, who state that a fibre may be produced by the lengthening out of a connecting process between two cells, the one of which remains in the central organ as a nerve-cell, whilst the other becomes a peripheral terminal organ. For the details of the description and for other observations on the development of the nerves, the reader is referred to the original memoir.* He-union and regeneration of nerves.—The divided ends of a nerve that has been cut across readily reunite, and in process of time true nerve-fibres are formed in the cicatrix, and restore the continuity of the nervous structure. The conducting property of the nerve, as regards both motion and sensation, is even- tually re-established through the reunited part. But, immediately after the sec- tion, a process of degeneration begins in the peripheral or severed portion of the nerve. The nuclei become multiplied, and the protoplasm about them largely increased in amount, the segments taking on to some extent their embryonic condition. At the same time the medulla of the white fibres degenerates into a granular mass consisting of fatty molecules, and is then totally removed, and eventually the axial fibre also disappears. The degeneration above referred to does not affect, at least to any great extent, the part of the nerve remaining in connection with the nervous centre, which seems to exert an influence in maintaining the nutrition of the nerve.f The ganglia, as well as the brain and spinal cord, were shown by Waller to be centres of this influence. He found that, in the central and undegenerated portion of a divided spinal nerve, while the fibres belonging to the anterior root owe their integrity to their connection with the spinal cord, those of the posterior root are similarly dependent on the ganglion ; and that, if the posterior root be cut between the ganglion and the spinal cord, not only will the fibres which belong to it in the trunk of the nerve beyond the ganglion remain unchanged, but also those above the ganglion, in the portion of the root left in connection with it; whereas the segment of the same root which remains connected with the cord but severed from the ganglion degenerates. Section of the sympathetic nerve in the neck is followed by degeneration of the cephalic segment as high as the superior cervical ganglion, but no farther. In regeneration the new fibres grow afresh from the axial fibres of the central end of the divided nerve-trunk (often more than one from each) ; and, pene- trating into the peripheral end of the trunk, grow along this as the axis-cylinders of the new nerves, becoming after a time surrounded with medullary substance. Beale, Phil. Trans., 1863. + In the neighbourhood of the divided central end, the nuclei of the primitive sheath multiply, and the white substance appears to break up into fat droplets, but the axis-cylinder remains unaltered. (Ranvier, Compt. Rend. lxxv. p. 1831.)