811 Fig. 607. Fig. 607.—Development of the Ex- ORIGIN OF THE EXTERNAL ORGANS. lida. The tubes of the kidneys in the lower vertebrata are therefore named segmental tubes, and their common duct (Wolffian), the seg- mental duct. In the amniota, however, the same correspondence between vertebrate segments and Wolffian body tubes no longer exists. The External Organs.—The existence in the embryo at first of a single outlet or cloaca, for the urogenital passages and the alimentary canal in common, has already been referred to. This condition of the ternal Sexual Organs in the Male and Female from the Indifferent Type (from Ecker). A, the external sexual organs in an embryo of about nine weeks, in which external sexual distinction is not yet es- tablished, and the cloaca still exists ; B, the same in an embryo somewhat more advanced, and in which, without marked sexual distinction, the anus is now sepa- rated from the urogenital aperture ; C, the same in an embryo of about ten weeks, showing the female type ; D, the same in a male embryo somewhat more ad- vanced. Throughout the figures the following indications are employed ; pc, common blastema of penis or clitoris ; to the right of these letters in A, the umbilical cord ; p, penis ; c, clitoris ; cl, cloaca ; ug, urogenital opening ; a, anus ; I s, cutaneous elevation which becomes labium or scrotum ; I, labium; s, scrotum ; cor caudal or coccygeal elevation. parts connected with the surface continues even beyond the time when the sexual distinction has begun to become manifest in the deeper organs, as up to the seventh day in the chick and the end of the eighth week in the human foetus. Previous to this time the cloaca presents itself in the form of a wide cavity, into the middle of which the intestine descends on the dorsal aspect. The pedicle of the allantois opens by a deep groove or recess anteriorly or on the ventral aspect, and on each side there is a widening, into which, in succession from the ventral to the dorsal aspect, open the Miillerian and Wolffian ducts and the ureters. The external opening has the form of a vertical slit wider above and below, and is situated in a raised portion of the common integument, from which all the other parts retire more and more within the cavity of the pelvis as it gradually deepens. The first change which takes place in the rudiments of the external organs, and which is common to all embryoes, and therefore to both sexes, consists in the advance from the sides and behind of the parti- tion which separates the intestinal portion from the rest, thus throw- ing the urogenital ducts into connection with a wide ventral part of the lower aperture, urogenital sinus, while the intestine is left in com- munication with the narrower dorsal section. The anus, strictly so called, now appears as the opening of the alimentary canal, and in front of it the urogenital aperture forms a narrow vertical slit wider behind than before, and leading into the urogenital sinus. In front of the last-named aperture there now rises a well-marked prominence of the integument, the rudiment of the still indifferent