269 THE LUNGS. expanding into a dome-like aponeurosis or fascia, which covers or strengthens the pleural cul-de-sac, and is attached to the whole of the inner edge of the first rib. The right pleura is generally stated to reach higher in the neck than the left ; but, in twenty observations recorded by Hutchinson, the right lung was higher in ten cases, and the left in eight, whilst in two the height was equal on the two sides. Anteriorly the pleural sacs of opposite sides come nearly or altogether into contact behind the second piece of the sternum, and continue so for some distance ; but opposite the lower end of the sternum the right pleura passes beyond the middle line or remains close to it, while the left recedes to a variable distance. Inferiorly the pleurae do not pass quite down to the attachments of the diaphragm, but leave a portion of its circumference in contact with the costal parietes. Owing to the height of the diaphragm on the right side (corresponding with the greater convexity of the liver), the right pleural sac is shorter than the left; it is at the same time wider. In the axillary line, the right pleura extends down to the lower edge of the ninth rib, while the left pleura reaches to the lower edge of the tenth (Luschka). Structure.—The pleura possesses the usual characters of serous membranes. The costal part is the thickest, and may be easily raised from the ribs and intercostal spaces. It is strengthened here by a layer of subserous areolar tissue of considerable thickness. On the pericardium and diaphragm the pleura is thinner and more firmly adherent; but it is thinnest and least easily detached upon the surface of the lungs. A difference is also noticeable in the character of the superficial epithelioid layer, for while on the pleura costalis this consists of the ordinary flattened cells, on the pleura pul- monalis the cells, at least in some animals, are less distinctly flattened and more granular and polyhedral (Klein). Lymphatic vessels are abundant in and beneath the pleura as in other serous membranes, and they communicate in many parts, by means of stomata, with the cavity of the membrane. In the pleura costalis they are only found over the intercostal spaces ; not over the ribs (Dybkowsky). THE LUNGS. Form.—Each lung is irregularly pyramidal or conical, with the base downwards, and one side (the inner) much flattened. The broad, concave base is of a semilunar form, and rests upon the arch of the diaphragm. It is bounded by a thin margin, which is received in the angle between the ribs and the diaphragm, and reaches much lower down behind and at the outer side than in front. The apex is blunt, and, as already mentioned, reaches into the root of the neck, above the first rib, where it is separated from the first portion of the subclavian artery by the pleural membrane. The outer surface, which moves upon the thoracic parietes, is smooth, convex, and of great extent, corresponding with the arches of the ribs and costal cartilages. The inner surface is slightly con- cave, and in part adapted to the convex pericardium. The posterior border is rounded, and is received into the deep groove formed by the ribs at the side of the vertebral column ; measured from above downwards, it is the longest part of the lung. The anterior border is thin and overlaps the pericardium, forming a sharp edge, which, opposite the middle of the sternum, is separated during inspiration from the corresponding margin of the opposite lung only by the two thin layers of the mediastinal