STRUCTURE OF THE DENTINE. 307 Fig. 207. Fig. 207.—Sections of an Incisor and Molar Tooth. The longitudinal sections show the whole of the pulp-cavity in the incisor and molar teeth, its extension upwards within the crown, and its prolongation downwards into the fangs with the small aperture at the point of each ; these and the cross section show the relation of the dentine and enamel. vascular, and sensitive substance, called the dental pulp. This pulp con- sists of jelly-like connective tissue containing fine filaments of the white variety, nucleated cells, blood-vessels and nerves. The cells are partly disseminated in the soft mass and partly form a stratum at the surface of the pulp, where they are elongated, somewhat like the cells of columnar •epithelium (see fig. 220, c, p. 318). On extraction of the pulp from the cavity of the tooth, this layer usually remains adherent to the hard tissue, and has been named the membrana ■ebons. The oblong cells composing it (odontoblasts) send processes into tubules in the dentine, to be after- wards noticed, of which more than one may come from the same cell ; lateral offsets, according to Waldeyer, proceed to join adjacent cells,' and radical processes connect the super- ficial cells with others lying deeper in the pulp. The arteries and nerves, which are derived from the internal maxillary and fifth pair respectively, enter by the aperture at the point of each fang. The vessels form a capillary network beneath the superficial cells ; the nerves, as described by Boll in the rabbit's incisor, end in fine non-medullated fibres which are distributed abundantly at the surface of the pulp and run up between the superficial cells. Some appear to take the direction of those cell-processes which enter the hard tissue, but they have not with certainty been traced into the dentinal tubules. Hard tissues of the teeth.—The hard part of a tooth is composed of three distinct substances,—viz., the proper dental substance, ivory or dentine, the enamel, and the cement or crusta petrosa. The dentine constitutes by far the larger portion ; the enamel is found only upon the exposed part or crown; and the cement covers with a thin layer the surface of the implanted portion or fang. The dentine (Owen,) forming the principal mass or foundation of the body and root of a tooth, gives to both of these parts their general form, and immediately encloses the central cavity. It resem- bles very compact bone in its general aspect and chemical relations, but is not identical with it in structure, or in the exact proportions of its earthy and animal constituents. According to the analyses of Berzelius and Bibra, the dentine of human teeth is composed of 28 parts per cent, of animal, and 72 of earthy matter. The former is resolvable into gelatin by boiling. The composition of the latter, according to Bibra, is as follows, viz., phosphate of lime 66'7 per cent., carbonate of lime 3*3, phosphate of magnesia and other salts, including a trace of fluoride of calcium, 1*8. Berzelius found 5*3 carbonate of lime. The dentine is penetrated throughout by fine tubes, which being nearly parallel give it a striated aspect (fig. 201). When a thin section is viewed under the microsco ^e by transmitted light, the solid sub-