THE SPLEEN. 398 TOGO. In intermittent and some other fevers the spleen is much enlarged, reaching below the ribs, and often weighing as much as 18 or 20 lbs. In enlargement and solidification it has been known to weigh upwards of 40 lbs ; and it has been found reduced by atrophy to the weight of two drachms. Small detached roundish nodules are occasionally found in the neighbourhood of the spleen, similar to it in substance. These are commonly named accessory or supplementary spleens (splenculi; lienculi). One or two most commonly occur, but a greater number, and even up to twenty-three, have been met with. They are small rounded masses, varying from the size of a pea to that of a walnut. They are usually situated near the lower end of the spleen, either in the gastro-splenic omentum, or in the great omentum. These separate splenculi in the human subject bring to mind the multiple condition of the spleen in some animals; as does also the deeper notching of the anterior margin of the organ which sometimes occurs in man. STRUCTURE OF THE SPLEEN. The spleen has two membranous investments—a serous coat derived from the peritoneum, and a special albuginous fibro-elastic tunic. The substance of the organ, which is very soft and easily lacerated, is of a dark reddish-brown colour, but acquires a bright red hue on exposure to the air. Sometimes, however, the substance of the spleen is paler, and has a greyish aspect. It also varies in density, being occasionally rather solid, though friable. The substance of the organ consists of a reticular framework of whitish elastic bands or trabecular, of a large proportion of blood-vessels, and of a peculiar intervening pulpy sub- stance, besides nerves and lymphatic vessels. The serous coat is thin, smooth, and firmly adherent to the elastic tunic beneath. It closely invests the surface of the organ, except at the places of its reflection to the stomach and diaphragm, and at the hilus. The tunica propria (284, a), much thicker and stronger than the serous coat, is whitish in colour and highly elastic. It is continuous with the trabecular structure within. Along the hilus this coat is reflected into the interior of the spleen, in the form of large trabecular, supported and enclosed by which run the blood-vessels and nerves; so that these are, as it were, ensheathed by prolongations of the fibrous coat. These sheaths ramify with the vessels which they include, as far as their finer subdivisions, and are connected with the numerous trabecular processes which pass into the interior from the whole inner surface of the fibrous coat. The arrangement of the sheaths and trabecules may be easily displayed in the spleen of the ox by pressing and washing out the pulp from a section ; and then they are seen to form a close reticulation through the substance. Thus, the proper coat, the sheaths of the vessels, and the trabecules, all of a highly elastic nature, constitute a distensible framework, which contains in its inter- stices or areolae the vessels and the red pulpy substance of the spleen. These fibrous structures are composed of interlaced bundles of areolar tissue containing a large amount of fine elastic tissue. In addition to these elements, in the spleen of the pig, the clog, and the cat, and to a smaller extent in that of the ox and sheep, there is found an abundant admixture of plain muscular fibre-cells, resembling those of the middle coat of arteries. A scanty admixture of similar fibres occurs also in the trabecules and fibrous coat of the human spleen (Meissner, W. Mliller). The elasticity of the fibrous coat and trabecular, together