VILLI OF THE CHORION. ruptured with the slightest force, and there is thus caused great difficulty in the examination of the ovum. After a few days the external covering of the ovum, which was previously smooth on its surface, becomes covered with slight pro- jections, which gradually rise in the form of simple villi, and these, according to Bischoff, have at first the same homogeneous structure as the zona originally pre- sented. But according to Kolliker it may be doubted whether these villi are at first entirely homogeneous, and, at all events, he has ascertained that in a very early stage of their formation in the human ovum, as in the ovum of from fifteen to eighteen days, described by Coste, and which Kolliker had an opportunity of examining microscopically, the simple villi consist of hollow tubular processes, which are entirely composed of nucleated cells, similar to those of the upper layer of the blastoderm. It is, therefore, most probable that according to the view first suggested by Reichert, the villous chorion of the mammal's ovum is a product of the development of the blastoderm, and is formed in fact by the extension of its outer layer, now termed epiblast. Fig. 517.—Front and Side Views op an Early Human Ovum Four Times the natural size (from Reichert)- This ovum, is supposed to be of thirteen days after impregnation. The surface bare of villi is that next the wall of the uterus, showing at e, the opacity produced by the thickened embryonic disc. The villi covered chiefly the marginal parts of the surface. Villi of the Chorion.—A large part of the external surface of the ovum is in the earlier stages beset with villi, and these villi acquire vascularity by the extension into them of the blood-vessels of the allan- toid membrane from within. In subsequent stages, however, the form and extent of the development of the villi are subject to great variety in different animals, according to the peculiar form which is assumed in each tribe by the organic connection established in uterogestation between the uterus and the ovum. In the human species the villi appear to become vascular at a very early period, as ascertained by Kolliker in an ovum of between three and four weeks, in which he found that, while a delicate loop of blood- vessels penetrated into each of the villi, the internal part of the villus, which, as before stated, was previously a hollow cellular tube, was now filled with a fibrous connective tissue bearing the simple blood-vessels, and of a structure precisely similar to that of the outer layer of the allantois. It is therefore extremely probable that the primitive zona of homogeneous structure, after being thinned out to great tenuity by the continued expansion of the ovum, disappears entirely, and is replaced by a cellular membranous structure derived from the upper layer of the blastoderm, while the deeper fibro-vascular part proceeds from the outer layer of the allantois; and from this it necessarily follows that the chorion is no original component of the ovum, but an acquired or newly-formed structure developed from a union of epiblastic and mesoblastic elements. Endochorion or Vascular layer of the Allantois.—The separation of the outer vascular layer of the allantois from the deeper layer (hypoblast) Fig. 517. mm. . Jgf - , 'Ht IIP ■ ; Ite / ill