334 THE PALATE. membrane and the bone ; and, like the rest of the mouth, it is covered with a squamous stratified epithelium. In the rabbit fine nervous fibrils have been traced forming1 a plexus in the epithelium (Elin). The soft palate (velum pendulum palati) is formed of a doubling of mucous membrane inclosing muscular fibres and numerous glands. It constitutes an incomplete and moveable partition between the mouth and the pharynx, continued from the posterior border of the hard palate, Fig. 235.—Antero-Posterior Vertical Section through the Head a little to the left of the Middle Line, showing the relations op the Nasal and Buccal Cavities, the Pharynx, Larynx, &c. a, nasal septum, and below it the section of the hard palate ; ~b, the tongue ; c, soft palate ; d, the lips ; u, the uvula ; r, anterior pillar of the fauces ; i, posterior pillar ; t, the tonsil placed between the pillars ; upper part of the pharynx ; h, body of the hyoid bone ; k, thyroid cartilage ; n, cricoid cartilage ; v, on the upper vocal cords above the glottis ; s, epiglottis ; 1, posterior opening of the nares ; 3, behind the isthmus faucium ; 4, opposite the superior opening of the larynx ; 5, passage into the oesophagus ; 6, opening of the right Eustachian tube. obliquely downwards and backwards (fig. 235, c). Its form and its infe- rior connections, bounding the isthmus of [the fauces, have been already described, together with the muscles which enter into its composition. The anterior or under surface of the velum, which is visible in the mouth, is concave. The mucous membrane, continuous with that of the hard palate, is thinner and darker : it is covered with a similar epithelium. The median ridge or raphe, which is continued backwards from the hard palate to the base of the uvula, indicates the original separation of the velum into two lateral halves. The posterior surface of the soft palate, slightly convex or arched, is continuous above with the floor of the posterior nares. It is slightly elevated along the middle line, opposite to the uvula. The greater Fig. 235.