756 DEVELOPMENT OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. The three constituent parts of the medulla oblongata beg-in to be distinguished about the third month ; first the rest/form bodies, which are connected with the commencing cerebellum, and afterwards the anterior pyramids and olives. The anterior pyramids become prominent on the surface and distinctly defined in the fifth month ; and by this time also their decussation is evident. The olivary fasciculi are early distinguishable, but the proper olivary body, or tubercle, does not appear till about the sixth month. The fasciolce cinerece of the fourth ventricle can be seen at the fourth or fifth month, but the white stria: not until after birth. Cerebellum.—In the human embryo the cerebellum exists at the end of the second month, as a delicate medullary lamina, forming an arch behind the corpora quadrigemina across the widely open primitive medullary tube. According to Bischoff, the cerebellum does not commence, as was previously supposed, by two lateral plates which grow up and meet each other in the middle line ; but a continuous deposit of nervous substance takes place across this part Fig. 556*. Fig. 556.—Brain and Spinal Cord exposed prom behind in a Fcetus op three months (from Kolliker). Jt, the hemispheres ; m, the mesencephalic vesicle or corpora quadrigemina, c, the cerebellum ; below this are the medulla oblongata, m o, and fourth ventricle, with remains of the mem- brana obturatoria. The spinal cord, s, extends to the lower end of the sacral canal and presents the brachial and crural enlargements. of the medullary tube, and closes it in at once. This layer of nervous matter, which is soon connected with the corpora restiformia, or inferior peduncles, increases gradu- ally up to the fourth month, at which time there may be seen on its under surface the commencing corpus dentatum. In the fifth month a division into five lobes has taken place ; at the sixth, these lobes send out folia, which are at first simple, but afterwards become subdivided. Moreover, the hemispheres of the cerebellum are now relatively larger than its median portion, or worm. In the seventh month the organ is more complete, and the flocculus and posterior velum, with the other parts of the inferior vermiform process, are now distinguishable, except the amygdalce, which are later in their appearance. Of the peduncles of the cerebellum, the inferior pair (corpora restiformia) are the first seen—viz., about the third month ; the middle peduncles are perceptible in the fourth month ; and at the fifth, the superior peduncles and the Vieussenian valve. The pons Varolii is formed, as it were, by the fibres from the hemispheres of the cerebellum embracing the pyramidal and olivary fasciculi of the medulla oblongata. According to Baer, the bend which takes place at this part of the encephalon thrusts down a mass of nervous substance before any fibres can be seen ; and in this substance transverse fibres, continuous with those of the cerebellum, are afterwards developed. From its relation to the cerebellar hemi- spheres the pons keeps pace with them in its growth ; and, in conformity with this relation, its transverse fibres are few, or entirely wanting, in those animals in which there is a corresponding deficiency or absence of the lateral parts of the cerebellum. Parts connected with, the Mesencephalon.—The corpora quadrigemina are formed in the upper part of the middle cephalic vesicle ; the hollow in the interior of which communicates with those of the first and third vesicles. The corpora quadrigemina, in the early condition of the human embryo, are of great proportionate volume, in harmony with what is seen in the lower vertebrata ; but subsequently they do not grow so fast as the anterior parts of the ence- phalon, and are therefore soon overlaid by the cerebral hemispheres, which