668 THE NOSE. into those cavities ; but the spheno-palatine foramen is covered over by the Schneiderian membrane, so that no such opening- exists in the recent nasai fossa. In the middle meatus, the aperture of the infundibulum is nearly hidden by an overhanging fold of membrane ; it leads directly into the anterior ethmoidal cells, and through them into the frontal sinus. Below and behind this, the passage into the antrum of Highmore is surrounded by a circular fold of the pituitary membrane (sometimes prominent and even slightly valvular), which leaves a circular aperture much smaller than the foramen in the bony meatus. In the lower meatus the inferior orifice of the nasal duct is defended by one or two folds of membrane ; and when there are two, the folds are often adapted so accurately together as to prevent even air from passing back from the cavity of the nose to the lachrymal sac. In the roof the apertures in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone are closed by the membrane, but the openings into the sphenoidal sinuses receive a pro- longation from it. In the floor the incisor foramen is in the recent state generally closed. Some- times, however, a narrow funnel-shaped tube of the mucous membrane descends for a short distance into the canal, but is closed before it reaches the roof of the palate. Vesalius, Stenson, and Santorini, believed that this tube of membrane opened generally into the roof of the mouth by a small aperture close behind the interval between the central incisor teeth. Haller, Scarpa, and more recently, Jacobson, find that in man it is usually closed, and often difficult of detection. (See Cuvier's Report on a paper by Jacobson, " Annales du Museum d'Hist. Naturelle ; " Paris, 1811 ; vol. xviii. p. 412.) MUCOUS MEMBRANE. The pituitary or Sclmeiclerian membrane, which lines the cavities of the nose, is a highly vascular mucous membrane, inseparably united, Fig. 483. ft') Fig. 483.—Outer Wall op the Left Nasal Fossa, covered by the Pituitary Membrane (Arnold), -f 1, frontal bone ; 2, left nasal bone ; 3, superior maxillary ; 4, body of the sphenoid with the sphenoidal sinus ; 5, projection of the membrane covering the upper spongy- bone ; 6, that of the middle ; 7, that of the lower ; the upper, middle, and lower meatuses are seen below the corresponding spongy bones ; 8, opening of the Eustachian tube ; 9, depression of the lining membrane of the nose in the anterior palatine canal.