DEVELOPMENT OF THE CRANIUM. 731 mities into a strip of cartilage on each side, and thus the matrix of the sternum is at first cleft in two behind the pre-sternal portion. Sub- sequent fusion of these two lateral strips unites them into one; and the transverse division of the bone only appears from the result of ossification in successive distinct centres. This fact possesses an interest in con- nection with the tendency of the meso-sternum and xiphi-sternum to divide and to produce various degrees of the malformation termed fissura sterni. In the lumbar region there is reason also to look upon part of the transverse processes as representing costal elements, but it is only in cases of abnormal formation that they are found distinct from the rest of the vertebra. (See the Descriptive Anatomy, Vol. L, p. 22.) The sacrum is peculiar in presenting, thrust in and compressed be- tween its strictly vertebral elements and the iliac bone with which it is united, several bony pieces which may be regarded as interposed ribs. The ossification of two of these occurs as early as the fifth or sixth month of foetal life. 2. THE HEAD. The head of the embryo consists at first, as already stated, of the cranial part alone, the face, nose, and mouth being absent. Below the cranium, and extending as far forward as the point of junction of the anterior with the middle encephalic vesicle, is situated the pharyngeal portion of the primitive alimentary canal, closed in anteriorly by the inflection of the blastodermic layers. It is at this place that subse- quently the opening of the alimentary canal to the exterior takes place in what constitutes ultimately the isthmus of the fauces ; and in front of this the buccal cavity, not yet existing, is afterwards formed. In the progressive development of the head the principal changes by which its fundamental parts come into shape may be enumerated shortly as follows, viz., First, increase of deposit and textural differentiation of the mesoblastic substance for the formation of the cranial walls in their basilar, lateral, and upper portions ; second, the interpolation of the sense-capsules as connected with the formation of the rudiments of the nose, eye, and ear; third, the development of the cerebral hemispheres and other parts of the brain from the three primary encephalic vesicles ; fourth, the occurrence of the several cranial inflections ; and fifth, the new formation of outgrowths for the development of the parts of the face. 1. The Cranium.—The basal portion of the cranium consists primarily of two fundamental parts. Of these the posterior is dis- tinguished by the presence of the prolongation of the notochord within it as far forward as the part of the skull which afterwards becomes the pituitary fossa. This portion, which may be named occipito-sphenoid, is originally formed by the undivided investing mass of Rathke, which surrounds the anterior extremity of the notochord, and contains the matrix of the future basi-occipital and basi-sphenoid cartilages. By its later extension to the sides, it forms the matrix of the exoccipitals and the periotic mass of cartilage which surrounds the primary auditory vesicles. The main part extends forward below the posterior and middle primary encephalic vesicles, ending at the pituitary fossa. The anterior portion of the basis cranii may be called spheno-ethmoid, as containing the matrix of the pre-sphenoid, and the ethmoid