107 MUSCULAR TISSUE. intra-uterine life ; others assign a considerably earlier period ; but owing to the uncertainty that prevails as to the age of early embryos, the dates of commencing ossification in the earliest bones cannot be given with precision. In regard to the number and arrangement of the osseous centres, the following general facts may be stated :—1. In the long bones there is one centre of ossifi- cation in the middle, and the ends are for the most part ossified from separate centres ; whilst a layer of cartilage remains interposed until the bone has nearly attained its full length. By this means the bone is indurated in the parts where strength is most required, whilst its longitudinal growth is facilitated. 2. The larger foramina and cavities of the skeleton are for the most part formed by the junction of two, but more generally of three or more ossific centres around the aperture or included space. The vertebral rings, the acetabulum, the occipital foramen, and the cranium itself, are illustrations of this. It is easy to conceive that in this way the ready and equable enlargement of such cavities and apertures is provided for. 3. Bones of a complex figure, like the vertebras, have usually many centres of ossification ; but the converse is not always true. 4. We can frequently connect the number of ossific centres with the principle of uniformity of type on which the skeleton of vertebrated animals is constructed. Thus the typical form of the sternum seems to be that of a series of distinct bones, one placed between each pair of ribs in front, as the vertebras are behind, and this is its permanent condition in many quadrupeds. In man it conforms to the general type in its mode of formation, in so far as it is ossified from several centres, and for some time consists of several pieces ; but, to suit the fabric of the human thorax, these at last coalesce one with another, and are reduced in number to three. Regeneration of Bone.—In the reunion of fractured bones, osseous matter is formed between and around the broken ends, connecting them firmly together : and when a portion of bone dies, as happens in necrosis, a growth of new bone very generally takes place to a greater or less extent, and the dead part is thrown off. The several steps of the process of restoration in these instances are so fully described in works on Surgical Pathology, that it is unnecessary to add to the length of this chapter by introducing an account of them here. Nevertheless it may be well to refer briefly to the importance of the periosteum in the process of repair, a point that was urged by Duhamel and Troja, and more recently by Syme and Oilier.* It is well known that if a portion of periosteum be stripped off, the subjacent bone will be liable to die and ex- foliate ; conversely, if a large part or the whole of a bone be removed and the periosteum at the same time be left intact, the bone will, in a great measure, be regenerated. These and many other facts connected with the subject of osseous regeneration have been very fully illustrated by the experiments of Oilier, who has shown, amongst other things, that osseous formation will even occur in connection with portions of periosteum which have been stripped away from the bone itself and intertwined amongst the muscles of the part, or even with portions that have been entirely removed from a bone and transplanted to a soft tissue—as, for instance, underneath the skin. MUSCULAR TISSUE. The muscular tissue is that by means of which the active movements of the body are produced. It consists of fine fibres, which are for the most part collected into distinct organs called muscles, and in this form it is familiarly known as the flesh of animals. These fibres are also disposed round the sides of cavities and between the coats of hollow viscera, forming strata of greater or less thickness. The muscular fibres are endowed with contractility, a remarkable and characteristic property, by virtue of which they shrink or contract more or less rapidly under the influence of certain causes which are capable of * Syme, Trans. R. S. Ed. 1840. Oilier, Traite de la Regeneration des Os. Paris, 1867.