540 THE CEREBRUM. ties, and are lined by a delicate epitheliated structure, the ependyma mntriculorum, which, at certain parts in the adult, and probably throughout its whole extent in the foetus, is provided with cilia. In the natural state the walls of the ventricles are moistened internally with a serous fluid, which sometimes exists in considerable quantity, even in a healthy brain. It was formerly a subject of dispute whether the lining of the ventricles consisted of epithelium only, or also of a membrane. It is now recognised that a peculiar form of connective tissue is found throughout the substance of the brain, similar to that which has been described in the spinal cord, and like it called neuroglia. A layer of this substance, unmixed with nerve- tissues, but in direct continuity with the interstitial web, and not a distinct mem- brane, supports the epithelium. The form of the epithelial cells appears to vary in different parts : these cells being, according to Kolliker. of the fiat pavement kind in the third ventricle, and more spherical in the lateral ventricles ; and, according to G-erlach, cylin- drical in the aqueductus Sylvii. 'From the central part or body of each lateral ventricle the cavity is extended forwards, backwards, and downwards, thus forming an anterior, a posterior, and a middle or descending cornu (fig. 371). Fig. 379.—The Lateral Ventricles opened Br a Horizontal Section, and the Middle Cornu exposed on the right SIDE. \ a, h, anterior and pos- terior parts of the great longitudinal fissure ; c, section of the anterior part of the corpus callosum ; d, posterior part of the same ; e, the left choroid plexus ; /, the fornix ; g, the an- terior ; h, the posterior, and q, the descending cornu of the lateral ven- tricle ; I; I; corpora striata ; I, I, optic tha- lami ; n, n, right and left hippocampus minor ; o, posterior pillar of the for- nix ; v, the corpus fimbri- atum into which it passes ; (/, cornu ammonis or pes hippocampi ; h, the medul- lary substance of the cere- bral hemisphere ; r, part of the cortical substance showing alternate grey and white matter ; s, s, taenia semicircularis ; y, eminentia collateralis. The tody of each lateral ventricle is roofed by the corpus callosum, and is separated from its fellow by a vertical partition, the septum lucidum (fig. 378, 2), which descends from the corpus callosum to the fornix. In the floor of the ventricle there is seen behind one half