303 THE TEETH. stance, or matrix, is transparent and apparently homogeneous, while the tubes, being (in a dried specimen) filled with air, are dark : but when seen with reflected light on a dark ground the latter appear white ; in these respects they resemble lacunae and canaliculi of bone. The dentinal tubules open at their inner ends into the pulp-cavity, which presents very numerous minute orifices over the whole surface. Thence they pass in a radiated manner through every part of the ivory towards its periphery. In the upper part of the crown they have a vertical direction; but towards the sides, and in the neck and root,, they become gradually oblique, then horizontal, and are finally even inclined downwards towards the point of the fang. The tubules describe in their course two or three gentle curves {primary curvatures, fig- 201), and each is besides -Section of Fang, Paral- lel to the Dentinal Tubules (Human Canine). Magnified 300 diameters. (Waldeyer). 1, cement, with large bone-lacuuce and indications of lamella ; 2, granular layer of Purldnje (interglobular spaces) ; 3, dentinal tubules. also become very fine, terminate twisted throughout its whole length into numerous fine spiral turns, which follow more closely one upon another ; these are the secondary curvatures (fig. 208). In form a tubule may accordingly be likened to the thread of a corkscrew, stretched so that the turns are drawn far apart, and their breadth proportionally diminished (Welcker). The tubes are only slightly di- vergent as they pass towards the sur- face ; and, as they divide several times dichotomously, and at first with- out being much diminished in size, they continue to occupy the sub- stance of the dentine at almost equal distances, and their nearly parallel primary curvatures produce, by the manner in which they reflect the light, an appearance of concentric undulations in the dentine, which may be well seen with a low magni- fying power (Schreger's lines). The average diameter of the tubules at their inner and larger ends is ^sVoth of an inch, and the distance between adjacent tubules is commonly about two or three times their width. From their sides numerous immeasur- ably fine branches are given off,, which penetrate the hard inter tubu- lar substance, where they either anas- tomose or terminate blindly. These lateral ramuscules are said to be more abundant in the fang. Near the peri- phery of the ivory they are very numerous, and, together with the main tubules themselves, which there, by rapid division and subdivision, imperceptibly by free ends, or by join-