110 MUSCULAR TISSUE. but by the latter arrangement the extent of motion is greater, for the points of attachment are moved through a longer space. Fibres ; their figure and measurement.—In shape the fibres are cylindrical, or prismatic, and in the latter case often with rounded surfaces and angles. Their size is tolerably uniform, although fibres occur here and there in a muscle which differ greatly in size from the prevailing standard. Bowman gave the average diameter in the male at 3-§~2 and in the female at TiT of an inch. According to later mea- surements by Kolliker in different regions of the body, the prevailing- size of the fibres in the muscles of the trunk and limbs is from -^-g- to 4-io of an inch, but is less in those of the head, especially in the facial muscles, in which he found the diameter to range from down to Cross stripes.—When viewed by transmitted light with a suffi- ciently high power of in all cases, a fine dark dotted line (first noticed by Busk and Huxley) passing along the middle of the light stripe, and dividing it into two (fig. 66, a). About eight or nine dark and as many light stripes may be counted in the length of ^Vo of an inJ*> which would give about T?iQ0 inch as the breadth of each. But whilst this may be assigned as their usual breadth, they are in different parts found to be much narrower, so that not unfrequently they are double the above number in an equal space. This closer approximation may generally be noticed in Fig. 66. the microscope, the fibres, which are then clear and pellucid in aspect, appear marked with fine parallel stripes or bands pass- ing across them di- rectly or somewhat obliquely with great regularity (figs. 65 and 60, a), and this not only at the surface but, as may be seen by altering the focus of the mi- croscope, throughout its substance also. The stripes are com- monly said to be dark, with light in- tervals ; but it is more correct to speak of both light and dark stripes which alter- nately cross the fibre. The dark and light stripes are nearly of equal breadth, and there also may be seen, very generally but not Fig. 66.—A, Portion of a medium-sized Human Mus- cular Fibre, magnified nearly 800 Diameters. B, Separated bundles of Fibrils, equally magnified. a, a, larger, and b, b, smaller collections ; c, still smaller; d, d, the smallest which could be detached.