127 STRUCTURE OF MEDULLATED NERVE-FIBRES. bounded on each side by a well-defined, simple and usually gently sinuous outline. Their size differs considerably even in the same nerve, but much more in different parts of the nervous system ; some being as small as the T2^o"otn anc^ others upwards of the T5-Voth of an inch in diameter; moreover, the same fibre may change its size in different parts of its course, and it is generally smaller at its central and peri- pheral ends. Very speedily after death, and especially on exposure to the action of water, these seemingly homogeneous fibres become altered: and it is when so altered that they are commonly subjected to examina- tion, as represented in fig. 81, A. In particular instances, and in Fig. 81. A. B. C. Fig. 81.—A. White or Medullated Nerve-Fibres, showing the sinuous outline and double contours (after Bidder and Volkmann). b. Diagram to show the parts of a meduliated fibre, viz. 1, 1, primitive sheath. 2, 2, white substance or medullary sheath. 3, axis or 'primitive band. c. Diagram intended to represent the appearances occasionally seen in the tubular fibres. 1, 1, membrane of the tube seen at parts where the white substance has separated from it. 2, a part where the white substance is interrupted. 3, axis projecting beyond the broken end of the tube. 4, part of the contents of the tube escaped. favourable circumstances, it may be discovered that the fibre is com- posed of a fine membranous tube, inclosing a peculiar soft substance, and that this contained substance itself is distinguishable into a central part placed like a sort of axis in the middle of the tube, and a peripheral por- tion surrounding the axis, and occupying the space between it and the tubular inclosing membrane. In the annexed ideal plan (fig. 81, b), the membranous tube or primitive sheath, is marked 1,1: the central part, marked 3, was named cylinder-axis by Purkinje, who considered it to be identical with the structure previously described by Kemak under the name of the primitive band (fibra primitiva); the matter surround- ing it, marked 2, 2, is supposed to be the chief cause of the whiteness of