substance of a convolution Fig. 390. Fig. 390.—Section of 559 INTERNAL STRUCTURE. according as its very numerous vessels contain much or little blood. Then follow, 3. Another thin whitish layer; and 4. A thin grey the Cortical Sub- stance of a Cerebral Convolution (from Remak). In A, the parts are nearly of the natural size. To the right of the figure, a and e are two white, and b and/ two grey strata ; to the left of the figure, an addi- tional white layer, e, di- vides the first grey into two, b and d. In B, a small part of the cortical is represented, magnified to show more clearly the relative position of the strata ; a, superficial white layer ; b, reddish grey layer ; c, inter- mediate white layer ; d, inner part of the outer grey layer ; e, thin white layer ; /, inner grey layer ; g, radiating white fibres from the medullary substance of the convolution passing into the layers of the cortical substance. stratum. This last lies next to the central white matter of the hemisphere, In some convolutions, especially in the occipital region, a paler layer (%. 390, B) divides the outer grey layer into two (b and d). This cortical grey substance of the convolutions contains cells and fibres embedded in a matrix. In this matrix most observers (Ehrenberg, Henle, Boll) have found only a granular structure, while others (as Max Schultze) believe that it consists of a network of fibres. It contains nuclei, and is probably of the nature of connective tissue (neuroglia), similar to that which supports the elements in other parts of the nerve centres (p. 136), and later researches have traced in it a similar cor- puscular structure. The cells are of various forms and sizes,—spherical, angular, fusiform, pyramidal, stellate,—many of them with numerous processes. Some of these branching cells are irregular in form and position, others are more regularly pyramidal in shape, and have the apex of the pyramid turned towards the surface of the convolution. The average size of the larger pyramidal cells is T-yVotn °f an incn iR diameter at the base, and each contains a rounded nucleus having an average diameter of -^soo^1 of an inch. They commonly contain a little yellowish pigment. The process from the apex may be traced for some distance towards the sur- face of the convolution, and is then lost. The mode of its termination is unknown. Several fine branching processes pass from the angles at the base of these cells and run outwards or towards the medullary centre. Some of these divide and ramify, the branches forming a network of fine anastomosing fibres, while others have been traced inwards undi- vided, and are supposed to be continuous with the axis-cylinder of a nerve fibre. The undivided axis-cylinder process, according to some observers, arises from the centre of the base of the cell, as in some other parts of the nervous system. The processes of these cells, as well as the body of the cell itself, are said to possess a distinct longi- vol. ir. o o