DEVELOPMENT OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 794 obliterated. Each of the first four branchial arches occupies a place in the substance of the pharyngeal or visceral plates, and in front of one of the pharyngeal clefts. The first or anterior is therefore situated in the inferior maxillary plate, and in front of the tympano-Eustachian, or first pharyngeal cleft ; and the fifth arterial arch is placed behind the fourth pharyngeal cleft, and in the substance of the neck, in which there is no distinct bar or plate in the higher animals, but which is the seat of a developed branchial bar in some aquatic animals. The vessels forming the arterial arches are given off on each side in succession from two short canals, into which the primitive arterial bulb divides immediately in front of the place where it joins the neck. These may be named the lower (ventral) or anterior aortic roots ; and similarly, when they have passed round the wall of the pharynx, the branchial arches unite in succession into a vessel on each side, thus forming the upper (dorsal) or posterior aortic roots. On the third and fourth days in the chick, and from the fourth to the sixth week in the human embryo, there are still three complete pairs of arterial arches passing round the pharynx, and connected both before and behind with the anterior and posterior aortic roots previously mentioned. The transformations of these arches were in part traced by Von Baer and various other observers, but the fuller knowledge of their changes is due to the later researches of Eathke (Mem. of Fig. 593. Fig. 593.—Diagram op the Aortic or Branchial Vascular Arches op the Mammal, with their transformations giving rise to the permanent arterial Vessels (according to Rathke, slightly altered). A, P, primitive arterial stem or aortic bulb, now divided into A, the ascending part of the aortic arch, and P, the pul- monary ; a, the right; a', the left aortic root ; A', the descending aorta. On the right side, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, indicate the five branchial primitive arterial arches ; on the left side, I, II, III, IV, the four branchial clefts, which, for the sake of clearness, have been omitted on the right side. It will be observed, that while the fourth and fifth pairs of arches rise from the part of the aortic bulb or stem, which is at first un- divided, the first, second, and third pairs are branches above c, of a secondary stem on each side. The permanent systemic vessels are represented in deep shade, the pulmonary arteries lighter ; the parts of the primitive arches, which have only a temporary existence, are drawn in outline only, c, placed between the permanent com- mon carotid arteries; ce, the external carotid ai*teries ; ci, ci', the right and left internal carotid arteries ; s, the right subclavian rising from the right aortic root beyond the fifth arch ; v, the right vertebral from the same opposite the fourth arch ; v', s', the left vertebral and subclavian arteries rising together from the left or permanent aortic root opposite the fourth arch ; P, the pulmonary arteries rising together from the left fifth arch ; d, the outer or back part of the left fifth arfeh, forming the ductus arteriosus ; pn, pn', the right and left pneumogastric nerves, descending in front of the aortic arches, with their recurrent branches represented diagrammatically as passing behind, with a view to illustrate the relations of these nerves respectively to the right subclavian artery (4) and the arch of the aorta and ductus arteriosus (d).