THE CHORION. 707 membrane, which acquires more or less of a composite villous structure, becomes vascular throughout the whole or a part of its extent, and which, by its farther development, comes to form the principal means on the side of the ovum of establishing an organic connection between the embryo and the uterus. While the name of prochorion, or primitive chorion, might without impropriety be given to the altered and expanded zona pellucida as the sole early covering of the ovum in mammals, the term, chorion is most suitably reserved for the newly formed membrane here referred to. By some authors, indeed, the name of chorion has been applied to the external covering- of the ovum of all animals without regard to its source or its relations to other parts. Thus by some the vitelline membrane has been regarded as a chorion when it appeared that no other membrane existed external to it; and by others the name has been given to such adventitious parts as the albumen, shell, or shell membrane of the ovipara : but such a use of the term chorion is liable to create confusion, and it seems more expedient that it should be restricted to the peculiar external covering of the mammiferous ovum, which, as will be shown hereafter, is not an original constituent of the ovum like the vitelline membrane, but a structure of new formation in the course of development. Fig. 515. —View of the Chorion of the Human Ovum of about Four or Five Weeks, opened (from Kolliker after Allen Thomson). Natural size. This figure gives a general view of the villous structure of the chorion previous to the formation of a placenta, and shows the large space which frequently intervenes at an early period between the amnion and chorion. At a very early period in the majority of mam- mals, and especially in the human species, the chorion acquires numerous villous processes over the whole or a part of its outer surface. These soon undergo a great development, and constitute a peculiar feature in the human ovum, whence the membrane has been known in human embryology as the chorionfrondomm, or shaggy chorion. The blood-vessels borne by the developed villi of the chorion, and named umbilical in human anatomy, are originally derived from those of the alhmtoid membrane, and are the seat of an extended circulation of the foetal blood in a system of outgoing arteries and returning veins with their intervening widely diffused capillary vessels. It is by this system of vas- cular chorionic villi being brought into contact or close proximity with the blood-vessels of the uterus, that the essential conditions of uterogestation, as regards the continued supply of nourishment to the foetus and the aeration of its blood, are secured in the whole class of mammiferous animals. There is, however, very great difference among these animals in the extent and form of the development of the villous structure of the chorion now referred to, as well as of the concomitant changes which occur in the uterus itself, by which a more or less intimate organic union is established between the maternal parent and the offspring. The history of these differences belongs to the account of the structure and formation of the placenta, which will be given hereafter. At this place it will be sufficient to state that, while in some animals, as the pachy- dermata and cetacea, the connection between the ovum and uterus