816 DEVELOPMENT OF THE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS. The Ovary.—Considered as a glandular organ the ovary differs from other glands by the absence from it of excretory ducts, and by the Fig. 610. Fig. 610.—Internal Organs op a Female Human Fcetus op 3| inches long. Magnified (from Waldeyer). o, the ovary full of primordial ova ; e, tubes of the upper part of the Wolffian body forming the epoophoron (parovarium of Kobelt) ; W, the lower part of the Wolffian body forming the paroophoron of His and Waldeyer ;W', the Wolffian duct; M, the Mullerian duct; m, its upper fimbriated opening. separation of its conducting passages from the glandular or productive part m of its structure. Like the testicle it begins to manifest its peculiar charac- \ teristics by the seventh or eighth week, when the germ-epithelium has attained j:\ considerable thickness, and forms a decided prominence on the mesial side of the Wolffian body. The farther de- velopment of the glandular part of the organ consists mainly in the formation of ovigerms and ova, and the implantation of these in Graafian follicles by a peculiar combination or intermixture of the superficial germinal cells with the deeper blastema which forms the stroma of the or^an. In a former part of this volume, under Ovary, p. 478, the development of the primordial ova from a certain number of the cells of the germ-epithelium and their enclosure in Graafian follicles by the growing stroma of the ovary have been described according to the most recent observations of Waldeyer, Kolliker and J. Foulis. The publication of the very careful researches of the last observer enables us to add some important details to the previous description. Figure 611, copied from some of Foulis's plates (Trans. Roy. Soc, Edin., 1875) ■will best show what from these observations appears to be the most probable view of the mode of development of ova in the human ovary. At e, fig. 611, B, is seen a portion of the germ-epithelium, and at e', one of the cells undergoing enlargement and conversion into an ovigerm or primordial ovum. Of this the outer protoplasm becomes the yolk, and the nucleus the germinal vesicle with its nucleolus or macula. At o, a single ovigerm, and at o', clusters of ovigerms in various stages of development have sunk into the ovarian stroma, and are being- surrounded collectively and individually by the growth of the connective tissue of the ovarian stroma advancing from below. Some of the ovigerms in the clusters are more advanced than the rest, and in these, as also in the isolated ovigerm represented in C, a covering of altered connective tissue corpuscles is seen to be forming round the yolk protoplasm. This is the origin of the cells of the tunica granulosa, which Foulis has shown are not produced, as Waldeyer believed, from germ-epithelial cells, but from the interstitial connective tissue of the deeper ovariari stroma. In A, o, o, the cell fibres of the stroma (n, n,) are seen surrounding several individual ova, so as to furnish the first elements of the wall of the Graafian follicles enveloping the ova, and covering imme- diately the granular cells. In D, representing an ovum somewhat farther advanced, the enlarged yolk-protoplasm and the germinal vesicle are shown entire, with a fragment of the granular cell covering and fibro-cellular wall of the Graafian follicle ; but the zona pellucida is not yet perceptible.