GLAXDS OF THE SMALL INTESTINE. 363 tides, and the central lacteal becomes filled with them. According to our own observations, the amoeboid lymph-corpuscles contained in the meshes of the retiform tissue, and which also extend amongst the columnar epithelium cells of the surface, become filled with fat globules during digestion : and we think it probable that these cells may serve as carriers of fatty matters into the lacteal, just as the white blood- corpuscles are known to convey minute solid particles out of the blood vessels and into the lymphatics. Other authorities are of opinion that the fat is conveyed into the lacteal through the branched cells of the retiform tissue. With, reference to the presence of fat in the epithelium-cells of the intestine, it must be borne in mind that, as pointed out by Virchow, the columnar epithe- lium of other parts, the bile-ducts and gall-bladder, for example, also becomes filled with fatty particles during digestion (although at a somewhat later stage) ; and in these cases the fat cannot have entered the cells by a process of direct absorption, but must have been elaborated and deposited within the cells them- selves, probably serving for their nutrition. The muscular tissue within the villus was discovered by Briicke: it consists of a thin stratum of plain fibre-cells disposed longitudinally around the lacteal; on being stimulated in animals, they produce an obvious retraction of the villus. This muscular tissue is a prolongation from the muscularis mucosas: the fibre- cells at the sides and towards the end of the villus pass from the lacteal to be attached to the basement membrane ; usually their attachment to this is forked, a connective tissue corpuscle filling up the interval (Watney).* Two kinds of small secreting glands open on the inner surface of the intestine, viz., the crypts of Lieberkuhn, and Brunner's glands, the last being peculiar to the duodenum. In addition to these, numerous lymphoid nodules are found, which are either scattered and isolated (solitary glands) or collected into patches (Peyer's glands). The crypts of Lieberkuhn, the smallest but most numerous of these glandular structures, are found in every part of the small intestine., opening between the villi (fig. 257, g). They consist of minute tubes, closed at their attached extremity, and placed more or less perpendi- cularly to the surface, upon which they open. They appear to be analogous to the tubuli of the stomach, but are not so thickly set, and are hardly ever divided. Similar tubules also occur throughout the whole mucous membrane of the large intestine. The crypts of Lieber- kuhn vary in length from the g^tji to the y^th of a line, and their diameter is about -J^th of a line. The walls of the tubes are thin, formed of the basement membrane, lined with a columnar epithelium (fig. 259), which, as elsewhere, possesses the thickened border. Brunner's glands are small rounded compound glands, first pointed out by Brunner, which exist in the duodenum, where they are most numerous at the upper end, in general occupying thickly a space ex- tending a little way from the pylorus. A few of thorn are said also to be found quite at the commencement of the jejunum. They are im- bedded in the submucous coat, and may be exposed by dissecting off the muscular coat from the outside of the intestine. In structure they resemble the small glands which are found in various parts of the lining membrane of the mouth and elsewhere, each consisting of a * Proceedings of the Royal Society, No. 152, 1874, and Centralblatt, f. d. ined. Wiss. 48, 1874, where also will be found other facts having reference to the structure of the villi and the absorption of fat.