THE SMALL INTESTINE. 370 the shape of the intestine on that side, and, according to Verson, some of the longitudinal muscular fibres of the gut are intercalated amongst the contiguous lobules of the gland. The common bile-duct descends behind the left border of this part of the duodenum, and, together with the pancreatic duct, which accompanies it for a short distance, per- forates the coats of the intestine obliquely near the lower part of its left or concave border. In the interior of this part of the intestine the valvulse conniventes appear numerously; and a downwardly projecting, papillary eminence of the mucous membrane is found immediately below one of these, about four inches below the pylorus, on the inner and back part of the intestine, at the apex of which is seen the common orifice of the biliary and pancreatic ducts. The third, transverse or oblique portion (d')} somewhat the longest and narrowest, beginning on the right of the third lumbar vertebra, crosses in front of the second obliquely from right to left. It makes its appearance below the transverse mesocolon, and, continuing to ascend for an inch or more, ends in the jejunum (j) at the left side of the vertebral column, immediately behind the root of the transverse mesocolon, and the commencement of the mesentery, and has the vena cava inferior and the aorta behind it, while in front of it the superior mesenteric vessels (m) pass from beneath the pancreas to enter the mesentery. At its termination the duodenum forms an abrupt angle with the commence- ment of the jejunum. This is due to its being- maintained, at that point, in its position, by a strong fibrous band descending from the left crus of the dia- phragm and the tissue around the cceliac axis. According to Treitz, muscular fibres come from both these sources to this part of the duodenum. In subjects in which the intestines are large and dilated, the curve of the duodenum may descend to the level of the iliac crest, but, owing to the support given by the band alluded to, its terminal extremity maintains a uniform position. Jejunum and Ileum.—The jejunum, originally so called from its having been supposed to be empty after death, follows the duodenum,, and includes the upper two-fifths of the remainder of the small intes- tine, while the succeeding three-fifths constitute the Hewn, so named from its numerous coils or convolutions. Both the jejunum and the ileum are attached and supported by an extensive fold of peritoneum termed the mesentery. The mesentery of the small intestine, although greatly frilled out in front to correspond in length with the jejunum and ileum to which it affords support, is attached posteriorly by a very short border which extends from the level of attachment of the trans- verse colon immediately to the left of the middle line, directly down to the right iliac fossa, where the ileum falls into the csecum. At its widest part the length of the mesentery is from four to six inches between its vertebral and its intestinal border. Between the two layers of peritoneum of which it consists are placed, besides some fat, numerous branches of the superior mesenteric artery and vein, together with nerves, lacteal vessels, and mesenteric glands. The convolutions of the jejunum are situated in part of the umbilical and left iliac regions of the abdomen; while the ileum occupies part of the umbilical and right iliac regions, together with the hypogastric, and descends into the pelvis, from which its lower end, supported by the mesentery, which is here very short, ascends obliquely to the right and somewhat back- wards, over the corresponding psoas muscle, and ends in the right iliac fossa, by opening into the inner side of the commencement of the