vein ; 10, 11, 12, right pul- 244 THE HEART. Fig. 166.—View of the Heart Fig. 166. arteries and veins with lymphatic vessels and nerves, imbedded in fatty tissue. CAVITIES OF THE HEART. The heart, as before remarked, contains four chambers or compart- ments, a right and a left auricle and a right and a left ventricle. and Great Vessels erom behind (R. Quain). 1, posterior surface of the right ventricle ; 2, the same of the left; 3, the right pul- monary artery near the division of the primary trunk ; 3', branches of the right pulmonary artery passing into the root of the right lung ; 3", the same of the left; 4', arch of the aorta ; 4", descending thoracic aorta; 5, right auricle ; 6, is placed on the division between the right and left auricles ; 7, superior vena cava ; 7', left vena innominata ; 8, trunk of the inferior vena cava; 9, right large hepatic monary veins ; 13, 14, left pulmonary veins ; +, +, pos- terior branches of the right and left coronary arteries. The right auricle (fig. 165, 5) is best brought into view on turning the heart somewhat to the left side ; it is then seen to occupy the right and anterior portion of the base of the organ. When thus viewed the auricle appears of a quadrangular form, the superior and inferior vena3 cavse (fig. 167, 1, 2), occupying respectively the upper and lower posterior angles, while a tongue-shaped portion, the auricular appendix or auricle proper,* is seen to project from the anterior and upper angle and to turn to the left over the root of the aorta. The main part of the auricle, that into which the great veins directly pour their blood, is commonly named sinus venosus or atrium, to distinguish it from the auricular appendix. When opened, the interior of the right auricle presents a smooth and even surface, except in the appendix which is ridged vertically with closely set reticulated muscular bands, and upon the anterior wall of the sinus, where similar bundles are seen extending, but here running parallel with one another, like the teeth of a comb, and thence termed musculi pectinati. The posterior wall corresponds with the partition between the two auricles (septum auricularum). Near its lower part and just above and to the left of the orifice of the inferior vena cava is an oval depression, the fovea or fossa ovalis (fig. 167, 3'), the remains of the foramen ovale (vestigium foraminis ovalis), which is an open passage in the foetal heart from the right to the left auricle. The fossa ovalis is bounded above and at the sides by a prominent border, deficient below, the annulus * So termed from its resemblance to the external ear of some animals.