213 STRUCTURE OF THE CORIUM. detached, appearing then like threads proceeding from its under surface. When a portion of the cuticle is destroyed by a blister, or otherwise, it is readily regenerated. Chemical composition.—The cuticle consists principally of a substance peculiar to the epithelial and horny tissues, and named keratin. This horny matter is insoluble in water at ordinary temperatures, and also in alcohol. It is soluble in the caustic alkalies. In composition, it is analogous to the albuminoid principles, but with a somewhat larger proportion of oxgyen ; like these, it contains sulphur. Besides keratin, the epidermis yields, on analysis, a small amount of fat, with salts, and traces of the oxides of iron and manganese. The tissue of the cuticle readily imbibes water, by which it is rendered soft, thick, and opaque, but it speedily dries again, and recovers its usual characters. Development and growth of Epidermis.— In the earliest condition of the embryo there is a special layer of cells, derived from the primitive embryonic cells, set aside for the production of the epidermis ; and it is quite conceivable, and by some histologists considered most probable, that the subsequent generations of epidermic and epithelial cells by which the tissue is throughout life maintained, are derived by unbroken descent from the original embryonic stratum. At the same time, the reproduction of epidermis in cicatrices after wide and deep de- struction of the subjacent skin, implies some other source of new cells; unless indeed it be supposed that the new cuticle grows exclusively from the old at the circumference of the sore. Setting aside this supposition, we might conceive the new cells to come from the connective tissue corpuscles, or at least, from migratory cells of the granulating surface of the new-growing skin ; and such a mode of reproduc- tion of epidermis has been described as actually observed ; moreover, it may be questioned whether, in certain situations, this may not be the regular process by which the growth of epithelium is maintained : the readiness, however, with which a previously obstinate ulcer will often become covered with epidermis if one or two small portions of that tissue are transplanted to its surface from some ether part, would indicate, on the other hand, that the presence of some epithelial cells at least is necessary to set up the growth. When the lowermost cells are elongated and vertical, it is difficult to conceive that they rise up as such, and take then place in the upper strata ; for the cells next above them are spheroidal in shape and may be smaller in size. It seems more likely that they divide into or produce the smaller cells. It might be supposed that an oblong vertical cell, by division of its nucleus and separation of the upper portion of the cell-body, produces a new and smaller cell, which rises up, while the parent cell maintains its place, and lengthens out again for a repetition of the process. CORIUM. The true skin, cutis vera, derma, or corium, is a sentient and vascular texture. It is covered and defended, as already explained by the non-vascular cuticle, and is attached to the parts beneath by a layer of areolar tissue, named " subcutaneous," which, excepting in a few parts, contains fat, and has therefore been called also the " panni- culus adiposus " (fig. 155, d). The connection is in many parts loose and movable, in others close and firm, as on the palmar surface of the hand and the sole of the foot, where the skin is fixed to the subjacent fascia by numerous stout fibrous bands, the space between being filled with a firm padding of fat. In some regions of the body the skin is moved by striated muscular fibres, which may be unconnected to fixed parts, as in the case of the orbicular muscle of the mouth, or may be attached beneath to bones or fasciae, like the other cutaneous muscles of the face and neck, and the short palmar muscle of the hand. Structure.—The corium is made up of an exceedingly strong and