210 THE MUCOUS MEMBRANES of small solid bodies, often of a flattened lenticular form, but varying much both in shape and size, and placed at different depths below the mucous membrane on which their ducts open. The glands of Brunner, which form a dense layer in the commencing part of the duodenum, are of this kind. 3. Solitary and agminated glands, conglobate glands (Henle), follicular glands (Kolliker), lymphoid glands.—Found in various parts of the alimentary mucous membrane. They may be single {solitary glands), or in patches {agminated glands), and commonly extend down into the submucous tissue. They are small rounded bodies con- sisting of fine retiform tissue, supporting radiating blood-capillaries, with lymph-corpuscles in the meshes, and communicating with similar tissue (lymphoid tissue) diffused in the adjacent part of the membrane. Several of these follicles are sometimes placed round a recess of the mucous membrane which opens on the surface, and which may be simple, as in certain glands at the root of the tongue and in the pharynx, or complex and multilocular, as in the tonsils. These lymphoid follicles, although designated as glands, pour out no secretion on a surface. They are to be regarded as dependencies of the lymphatic system, and as probably concerned in the production of lymph corpuscles. At all events, the lymphatics are extremely abundant in their immediate neighbourhood, and in some places form a kind of sinus closely surrounding the follicle. The mucous membranes are supplied with nerves, and endowed with sensibility ; but the proportion of nerves which they receive, as well as the degree of sensibility which they possess, differs very greatly in different parts. The mode of distribution and termination of these nerves will be dealt with in describing the special anatomy of the parts where they occur. Secretion.—Mucus is a more or less viscid, transparent, or slightly turbid fluid, of variable consistency. It is somewhat heavier than water, though expectorated mucus is generally prevented from sinking in that liquid by entangled air- bubbles. Examined with the microscope, it is found to consist of a fluid, con- taining solid particles of various kinds, viz., 1. Epithelium particles detached by desquamation ; 2. Corpuscles resembling the pale corpuscles of the blood; 3. Granules and molecules occasionally. The visci- Fig. 139*. dity of mucus depends on the liquid part, which contains a peculiar substance, named by the chemists mucin. This ingredient is precipitated and the mucus rendered turbid by the addition of water or a weak acid, but it may be partly redis- solved in an excess of water, and completely so in a strong acid. This mucin is soluble in alkalies, and its acid solutions are not precipitated by ferrocyanide of potassium. Little can, of course, be expected from a chemical analysis of a hetero- geneous and inseparable mixture of solid particles with a liquid solution, such as we find in mucus. Fig. 139*.—Goblet-Cells from which is, moreover, subject to differences of Trachea of Rabbit. Highly quality according to the part of the mucous Magnified (Klein). membrane whence it is derived. Examined thus, however, nasal mucus has been found to yield, besides water and mucin, alcohol-extract with alkaline lactates, water-extract with traces of albumin and a phosphate, chlorides of sodium and potassium,