THE EAE. C62 to be described in connection with the organ of Corti. It arises, as before stated, on the limbns, not far from the line of origin of Reissner's membrane, but the extent to which it covers the limbns, varies in different animals. It overlies the projecting teeth at the edge of the limbns, and also the epithelium between : all this part of the mem- brane is thin and delicate, imperceptibly shading off towards the inner edge of attachment. As the membrane projects over the crest of the limbus, it swells out below into a pad-like projection which, as before stated, covers in and partly fills up the spiral groove, and rests below upon the rods of Corti and contiguous structures. Towards its external edge the membrane again thins out, and over-lies the outer hair-cell region as a delicate film presenting a somewhat reticular appearance, as if impressed by or moulded on the subjacent structures. The thickened part of the membrane is distinctly fibrous in appearance (the fibrillation extending from within, out), and after immersion in weak solutions of chromic acid, or bichromate of potash, it appears to possess considerable toughness and elasticity. Waldeyer states, however, that in the perfectly fresh condition it is soft and pulpy, and he considers that it may serve as a damper to prevent any too violent vibrations of the fluid which is in immediate contact with the hair-cells. It must be remembered that from its position the hairlets borne by the latter must necessarily be in contact with the under surface of this membrane. About its origin nothing certain is known, but it appears to be formed as a cuticular deposit or secretion from the epithelial cells, upon which, even at a comparatively early stage of development, it may be seen to lie. "Vessels and nerves of the cochlea.—The cochlear branches of the internal auditory artery, twelve or fourteen in number, arising at the bottom of the internal auditory meatus, traverse the many small canals in the modiolus and bony lamina spiralis, and form in the latter a capillary plexus that joins at intervals the vas spirale, previously mentioned. From this plexus offsets are distributed in the form of a fine network on the periosteum, but the vessels do not anastomose across the membrana basilaris. The veins of the cochlea issue from the grooves of the cochlear axis and, joining the veins of the vestibule and semicircular canals at the base of the modiolus, pour their contents into the superior petrosal sinus. The cochlear branch of the auditory nerve is shorter, flatter, and broader than any of the other nerves of the internal ear, and perforates the bone by groups of minute foramina at the bottom of the internal meatus, below the opening of the Fallopian aqueduct. These groups are arranged in a shallow spiral furrow (tractus spiralis foraminulentus) in the centre of the base of the cochlea ; and they lead into small bony canals, which follow first the direction of the axis of the cochlea, through the modiolus, and then radiate outwards, between the plates of the bony lamina spiralis. In the centre of the spiral tract is a larger foramen which leads to the canalis centralis modioli. Through this foramen and canal the filaments for the last half-turn of the lamina spiralis are conducted; whilst the first two turns are supplied by filaments which occupy the smaller foramina and bent canals. In the bone, the nerves have dark outlines, and near the root of the spiral lamina they pass outwards through a spirally wound ganglionic cord, the so-called ganglion spirale, situated in the special bony canal, canalis