562 THE CEREBRUM. campi. There the large pyramidal cells are few in number, and the- broad layer in which they occur consequently changes its characters, being split up by layers containing few corpuscles. In the Sylvian fissure the fusiform cells are more abundant than elsewhere, and from their number in the claustrum (p. 564) this layer has been termed by Meynert the " claustral formation." The cornu ammonis is formed almost exclusively of the large pyramidal corpuscles, and the layer in which these corpuscles occur has, in like manner, been termed the " formation of the cornu ammonis." Fig. 392. Fig. 392.—Minute Structure of the Cerebral Substance (from Kolliker), magnified 220 Diameters. A, cells and structural elements from the inner part of the cortical substance of the cerebral convolutions ; a, larger cells, chiefly from the middle grey layer, showing a variable number of radiating processes; b, smaller cells from the more superficial grey layer, in part belonging to connective tissue ; c, a nerve-fibre with its axis-filament partly exposed. B, finest nerve-fibres from the superficial white layer of the cortical substance of a convolution, some showing the varicose condition. (B.) grey matter at the bases.—The grey matter of the lamina cinerea, tuber cinereum, and posterior perforated spot, appears both in the base of the brain and in the floor of the third ventricle. These collections present many large stellate nerve-cells containing yellowish pigment. From the tuber cinereum a few fibres pass to the optic nerves. The lamina cinerea is connected externally with the grey matter of the anterior perforated spot, and from that point a continuity of grey matter can be traced to the swelling of the olfactory bulb. Olfactory tract and "bulb.—The tuber olfactorium (or grey root) contains pyramidal nerve-cells, similar to those of the convolutions, but more densely arranged. The olfactory tract, or " nerve," consists, in its upper half, of grey matter, containing large granules, nuclei, and small cells, and traversed by a few fibres, continuous with those of the middle root. The other fibres occupy the lower half of the nerve. Olfactory lulb.—The upper portion is occupied by medullated fibres, prolonged from the nerve and separated into superficial and deep laminse, by granular substance, the granules being large and arranged in several layers. On the under surface of the bulb is a layer of non-