STRUCTURE. 89 Midler's explanation; at the same time it is equally certain that uncalcified fibres, though numerous at particular spots, are by no means so frequent as might be inferred from Muller's account of them, and that the perforating fibres may be said to be generally calcified. Finally, these fibres seem to have no physiological significance : they may be regarded as merely a modification of the mechanical structure of the tissue. In a thin transverse section of hard bone, the concentric lines, or rather bands which represent the cut edges of the lamellas, generally present, with transmitted light, a dark granular-looking, and a light, transparent, and usually narrower zone. Under a high power of the microscope the former appears thickly dotted over with fine dark points. In a decalcified section the dark part shows a multitude of short bright lines running radially across it, with dark angular particles between them. The lines are probably caused by pores and fine clefts passing through the lamella ; the appearance of dark particles seems to be pro- duced by the cut ends of the reticulating fibres of which the lamellae are made up. A longitudinal section of a cylindrical bone carried across the lamellas pre- sents a corresponding appearance, for as the fibres run more or less obliquely to the axis of the bone, they present cut ends in a longitudinal section also. It thus appears that the animal basis of bone is made np of lamella) composed of fine reticular fibres ; but interposed among these lamellae, layers are here and there met with of a different character, viz.:— 1. Strata of amorphous or granular aspect, in which the lacunas are very con- spicuous and regularly arranged, and sometimes appearing as if surrounded by faintly defined areolae. These generally incomplete layers are often bounded by a scalloped border, as if made up of confluent round or oval bodies ; this is indi- cated also by the occasional occurrence of oval or flattened spheroidal bodies singly or in small groups near the border of these layers, each with a cavity in the centre. In fact, if the round bodies shown in figure 53 had a central cavity, they would very well represent the objects here referred to. In some parts the granular substance is obscurely fibrous, and transitions may be observed to the well-marked reticular laminas. The layers described appear principally to occur near the surface of the compact tissue, and at the circumference of many of the systems of concentric Haversian lamellas. 2. Irregular layers of rounded bodies, apparently solid and without central cavity or mark, well represented in figure 53, which is after a drawing from nature by Dr. A. Thomson. These layers are met with chiefly near the surface of the shaft of long bones, lying among the circumferential laminas, and apparently forming only part of a circuit. They can occasionally be recognised in a trans- verse section as short curvilinear bands of peculiar aspect, broader in the middle and thinning away at the ends, appearing here and there between the cut edges of two ordinary circumferential laminas. The appearances described under 1 and 2, and especially the last, as represented in fig. 53, may be accounted for by the explanation offered by Professor C. Loven, of Stockholm, on seeing the figure and specimens ; viz., that the sur- face covered apparently with globular bodies, single or in botryoidal groups, is really a cast in relief from a contiguous surface of bone that has been excavated by absorption. It is known that in the growth of a bone absorption occurs at various parts, and is often followed by fresh ossific deposition ; as, for example, in the excavation and subsequent filling up of the Haversian spaces. The absorption in such cases is a healthy process, but the absorbed surface is, as in absorption from disease, eroded or scooped out into sinuous hollows, the larger of which are again carved on the inside into smaller rounded pits (foveolas). New osseous matter deposited on such a surface fills up its hollows, and, when the new layer is detached, it exhibits a raised impression corresponding with them.* * Two observations which I have had occasion to make favour this explanation. A cross section of a (large) serpent's rib shows an outer and an inner series of concentric lamella? surrounding the medullary canal, and the inner trenches on the outer by a festooned