705 THE ALLANTOIS. in the periphery of the ovum, yet in its origin it differs from the other membranes now under consideration in its close connection with one of the internal organs of the embryo. As already stated, this membrane does not exist as a fcetal structure in fishes or amphibia. In reptiles, birds and mammals, it is formed in connection with the hinder part of the primitive intestine, is the bearer of an extended capillary distribution of the umbilical or hypogastric vessels, and in combination with them performs important functions connected with the nutrition of the foetus and the aeration of the foetal blood. The recent observations of His and of Dobrynin have shown that it springs from splanchnopleure elements of the mesoblast and hypoblast,, below and in front of the caudal extremity of the embryo close to the place of division of the mesoblast into its somatopleural and splanchnopleural laminae. The former of these is reflected in the caudal fold of the amnion already described; the latter buds out from the end of the primitive intestine into the pleuro-peritoneal space, and receives within it an evolution or outfolded process of the hypoblastic lining of the alimentary canal. It is placed at first rather behind the part which later becomes the cloaca, the orifice of which is still closed : but very soon it is doubled forwards upon the cloaca, so as to lie below it, and when this orifice is afterwards opened it forms the common outlet of the intestine and the allantois (fig. 510, and fig. 512, 3 and 4). The blood-vessels, which are developed with great rapidity in the outer layer of the allantois, are formed in connection with those which become the two umbilical arteries and the corresponding umbilical veins, which last, however, do not run entirely in the same course as the arteries, but join the omphalo-mesenteric and pass towards the liver; one of the original veins very frequently becoming obliterated, as occurs in the human subject. The capillary network spread over the sur- face of the allantois appears almost as soon as the first prominence of the membrane begins to bud out from the wall of the primitive intestine, and the vessels appear at first to be in direct connection with the terminations of the two primitive aortaa ; but subsequently, when the two aortaa coalesce, the umbilical arteries appear as branches of the iliac arteries (see the Development of the Vascular System). The allantois in expanding takes the shape of apediculated flask-like vesicle, extends into the pleuro-peritoneal space, and is filled with fluid like the other membranes of the ovum. It is usually directed towards the right side of the embryo, or the opposite from that on which the yolk-sac is laid. In its subsequent great expansion in the egg of birds the allantois spreads out in a flattened form over the whole internal surface of the membrane of the shell, thus coming to occupy more and more of the space previously held by the albumen, the rapid liquefaction and disappearance of which are coincident with the greatest expansion of the allantois and other membranes. The allantois, though greatly flattened out in its most advanced state,, still consists of an outer and an inner wall, separated by the fluid, and both bearing the finely ramified blood-vessels, which, however, are most richly distributed on the outer division ; and in these last it is easy to see, on opening an egg during incubation from the eighth day onwards, the marked difference of colour of the blood in the outgoing and returning vessels from the action of the surrounding air on the^blood which has passed through the capillaries. z z 2