THE CEREBRUM. 554 rated by a network of delicate connective tissue, consisting of cells possessing distinct nuclei and delicate processes, which unite to form incomplete laminae. The general direction which the fibres follow is best seen in a brain that has been hardened by immersion in alcohol, although it is true that in an ordinary dissection of such hardened masses with the scalpel, we do not then trace the single fibres, but only the smaller bundles and lamellse which they form by their aggregation. It must also be admitted that where they intimately decussate, the tearing of fibres across is liable to be mistaken for the separation of sets of fibres one from the other ; it is necessary to correct such errors by the examination of sections under the microscope. The microscopic examination of the cerebrum, however, is as yet still less complete than that of the spinal marrow and medulla oblongata. By the dissection of artificially prepared brains, aided in part by microscopic observation, the following general facts have been ascertained. The fibres of the cerebrum, though exceedingly complicated in their arrangement, and forming many different groups, may be referred to three principal systems, according to the general course which they take, viz. :—1. Ascending or peduncular fibres, which pass from the medulla oblongata to the hemispheres, and constitute the peduncles of the cere- brum. These fibres increase in number as they ascend through the pons, and still further in passing through the optic thalami and striated bodies, beyond which they spread in all directions into the hemispheres. 2. Transverse or commissural fibres, which connect the two hemispheres together. 3. Longitudinal or collateral fibres, which, keeping on the same side of the middle line, connect more or less distant parts of the same hemisphere. 1. The Peduncular fibres, in each hemisphere, consist of a main body and of certain accessory bundles of fibres. .surface of the same, and below it the cavity of the fifth ventricle ; e, left anterior pillar of the fornix ; y, decussation of the radiating fibres with the crossing fibres of the corpus callosum. Fig. 387. Fig. 387.—Posterior View op the Peduncles op the Cerebrum and Cerebel- lum (after Arnold). ^ The lower and fore part of the cerebral hemispheres is preserved, the cerebellum is completely detached from its peduncles, and on the right side the corpora quadrigemina and thalamus opticus have been dissected, a, fasciculus teres of the left side ; b, fibres of the tegmentum ascending through the right thalamus ; c, left corpora quadrigemina ; d, lateral column of the cord ; e, restif orm body ; /, superior peduncles of the cerebellum ; g, fibres of the crust ; i, the fillets ; Jc, h, corpora striata ; 1, the left thalamus ; m, m, sections of the middle peduncles of the cerebellum ; n, section of the left inferior peduncle ; p, left posterior pyramid ; q, section of the corpus callosum ; s, under