003 STEUCTURE OF THE IRIS. ing near to its inner margin ; and at the ciliary margin also they arch round and take a somewhat circular direction. In the substance of the iris anteriorly and throughout its thickness are variously-shaped ramified pigment cells like those in the choroid. The pigment contained in them is yellow, or of lighter or darker shades of brown, according to the colour of the eye. At the posterior surface is a covering of dark pigment, the uvea of authors ; this is continuous with the (retinal) pigmentary layer lining the choroid and the ciliary processes, and here consists of several strata of small roundish cells , filled with dark pigment. The colour of the iris depends on the pig- ment ; in the different shades of blue eye it arises from the black pigment of the posterior surface appearing more or less through the texture, which is only slightly coloured or is colourless; but in the black, brown, and grey eye, the colour is due to the pigment scattered through the iris substance. Pupillary membrane (membrana pupillaris).—In foetal life a delicate trans- parent membrane thus named closes the pupil, and completes the curtain of the iris. The pupillary membrane contains minute vessels, continuous with those of the iris and of the capsule of the crystalline lens ; they are arranged in loops, which converge towards each other, but do not quite meet at the centre of the pupil (fig. 412). At about the seventh or eighth month of foetal life these vessels gradually disappear ; and, in proportion as the vascularity diminishes, the mem- 0 brane itself is absorbed from near the centre towards the circumference. At the period of birth, often a few shreds, sometimes a larger portion, and occasionally the whole membrane is found persistent. Vessels and nerves of the iris.—The long ciliary arteries, two in number, pierce the sclerotic a little before, and one on each side of, the optic nerve. Having gained the interval between the sclerotic and choroid coats, they extend hori- zontally forwards (fig. 407, 2) through the loose connective tissue to the ciliary muscle. In this course they lie nearly in the horizontal plane of the axis of the eyeball, the outer vessel being however a little above, and the inner one a little below the level of that line. A short space behind the fixed margin of the iris each vessel (fig. 414, 1, 1) divides into an upper and a lower branch, and these, anasto- mosing with the corresponding vessels on the opposite • side and with the anterior ciliary, form a vascular ring (circulus major) in the ciliary muscle. From this circle smaller branches arise to supply the muscle; whilst others (fig. 414, 5) converge towards the pupil, and there, freelv communicating by transverse offsets from one to another, form a second circle of anastomosis (circulus minor), from which capillaries are con- tinued inwardly and end in small veins. Fig. 412. Fig. 412.—Pupillary Membrane of New- born Kitten, Injected (Kolliker, from a preparation by Thiersch). Magnified.