THE LARGE INTESTINE. 372 canal, consists of external longitudinal and internal circular fibres. The longitudinal fibres, although found in a certain amount all round the intestine, are, in the ceecum and colon, principally collected into three remarkable flat longitudinal bands (fig. 267, Ion; fig. 270). These bands, sometimes called the ligaments of the colon, are about half an inch wide, and half a line thick; they commence upon the extremity of the ca3cnm, at the attachment of the vermiform appendix, and may be traced along the whole length of the colon as far as the commence- ment of the rectum, where they spread out, so as to surround that part of Fig. 267.—Outline Sketch of a Sec- tion op the Ascending Colon (Allen Thomson). f s, the serous or peritoneal covering; s', s', reflection of this at the attached border forming a short wide mesentery, between the folds of which the blood- vessels are seen passing to the colon ; a, one of the appendices epiploica; hanging from the inner border ; I m, indicates at the free border one of the three bands formed by the thickening of the longi- tudinal muscular coat; the dotted line continued from the. margins of these bands represents the remainder of the longitudinal muscular coat, and the thick line within it, marked c m, represents the circular muscular layer ; m, the mu- cous membrane at the flattened part ; r, the crescentic bands or indentations which divide the sacculi. the intestinal tube with a uniform layer of longitudinal muscular fibres. One of these bands, named the posterior, is placed along the attached border of the intestine; another runs along its anterior border, and, in the transverse colon, corresponds with the attachment of the great omentum; whilst the third band (lateral) is found on the inner border of the ascending and descending colon, and on the under border of the transverse colon. It is along the course of this third band that the appendices epiploicas are most of them attached (fig. 267, a). Mea- sured from end to end, these three bands are shorter than the inter- vening parts of the tube ; and the latter are thus thrown into the sacculi already mentioned : accordingly, when the bands are removed by dissection, the sacculi are entirely effaced, and the colon, elongating considerably, assumes the cylindrical form. The transverse constric- tions seen on the exterior of the intestine, between the sacculi, appear on the inside as sharp ridges separating the cells, and are composed of all the coats. In the vermiform appendix the longitudinal muscular fibres form a uniform layer. The circular muscular fibres form only a thin layer over the general surface of the caecum and colon, but are accumulated in larger numbers between the sacculi. In the rectum, especially towards its lower part, the circular fibres form a very thick and powerful muscular layer. The submucous or areolar coat resembles in all respects that of the small intestine. Fig. 267.