772 DEVELOPMENT OF THE ORGANS OF SENSE. inner forms the external walls of the membranons labyrinth, while the intervening layer swells up into gelatinous tissue, the meshes of which become wider and wider, till at last the space is left which ultimately contains the perilymph. The cochlea appears at first as a prolongation downwards from the auditory vesicle, but afterwards becomes tilted forwards. This pro- longation of the auditory vesicle is the rudimentary canalis mem- branacea. Close to it is placed the cochlear nerve, with a gangliform extremity. The canal becomes elongated in a spiral direction, and the ganglion, which is elongated with it, becomes the ganglion spirale. Between the canal and the cartilaginous wall which afterwards sur- rounds it a large amount of connective tissue intervenes, and in this tissue the cavities of the scala vestibuli and scala tympani gradually appear at a later period, precisely as does the space for the perilymph, in the vestibule. The modiolus and spiral lamina, according to Kol- liker, are ossified without intervention of cartilage. Within the canalis membranacea Kolliker finds in the embryo a continuous epithelial lining, thin on the membrane of Eeissner and on the outer wall, but forming a thick elevation in the position of the rods of Corti, and a larger elevation more internally, filling up the sulcus spiralis. On the surface of this latter elevation he has observed a transparent body, the membrane of Corti. The auditory nerve is said to be developed, separately from both, the brain and the labyrinth, in the intermediate mesoblastic wall of the head; the canal termed meatus auditorius internus being left in the bones round it and the facial nerve. The auditory nerve becomes secondarily connected with the medulla oblongata in a manner not yet ascertained, and its fibres are extended into relation with the delicate terminal structures formed in the membranous labyrinth. Middle and External Cavities of the Ear.—It has been already explained that the external meatus, the tympanic cavity, and the Eustachian tube, are formed in the posterior or upper part of the first postoral visceral cleft, which remains permanently open as the tympano-eustachian passage, except at the place where it is interrupted by the formation of the membrana tympani; and also that the malleus is formed in the first visceral plate from the proximal part of Meckel's cartilage, and the incus, stapes, and stapedius muscle and the styloid process probably in the second plate. It is pointed out by Kolliker that during the whole period of foetal life the tympanic cavity is occupied by connective tissue, in which the ossicles are imbedded; and that only after respiration has been established this tissue recedes before an expansion of the mucous membrane. The pinna is gradually developed on the posterior margin of the first visceral cleft. It is deserving of notice that congenital malformation of the external ear, with occlusion of the meatus and greater or less imperfection of the tympanic apparatus, are observed in connection with abnormal development of the deeper parts of the first and second visceral plates and the intermediate cleft; while cases have been observed of the persistence in the neck of the adult of one or more of the branchial clefts situated behind the first. (Allen Thomson, Proceed. Roy. Soc. of Edin. 1844, and Edin. Journ. of Med. Sc. 1847.) DEVELOPMENT OP THE NOSE. The organ of smelling, as was first pointed out by Y. Baer, owes its origin, like the primary auditory vesicle and the crystalline lens of the eye, to a depression of the integument, or what may be more precisely designated as epiblast. This depression, the primary olfactory groove, is at first encircled by a uniform wall, and is unconnected with the