THE YITEEOUS BODY. 619 THE VITREOUS BODY. The vitreous body, the largest of the transparent parts through which the light passes to reach the retina, occupies the centre of the eyeball. It is quite pellucid in aspect, and of a soft gelatinous consistence. Sub- globular in form, it fills about four-fifths of the ball, and serves as a support for the delicate retina, but it may be readily separated from the latter, except behind, at the entrance of the optic nerve, where the connection is closer, the retinal vessels having here entered it in foetal life. At the fore part it is hollowed out for the reception of the lens and its capsule, to which its substance is closely adherent. The surface of the vitreous humour is covered everywhere except in front by a thin glassy membrane, named hyaloid, which lies between it and the retina. No vessels enter the vitreous humour in the adult, and its nutrition must, therefore, be dependent on the surrounding vascular structures, viz., the retina and the ciliary processes. Although in the fresh state apparently structureless, or at least pre- senting under the microscope but faint traces of structural elements— the so-called corpuscles of the vitreous humour to which we shall im- mediately recur,—yet in preparations hardened in weak chromic acid, or acted upon in certain other ways, it is possible to make out a more or less distinct lamellation of the vitreous body, especially its peripheral part, that, namely, nearest the retina, which part in the human eye has a somewhat firmer con- sistence than the more central portion. From the appearances (fig. 429) which have been obtained with such modes of preparation it has been con- jectured by various observers that at least in this part the vitreous substance is divided into enclosed, flattened compart- ments by a number of exces- sively delicate membranes ar- ranged concentrically and there- fore parallel to the surface, but the existence of such membranous partitions has not been con- clusively demonstrated. That, however, the vitreous substance does in some way consist of a firmer material—whether or not in the shape of continuous membranes—enclosing in its meshes the more fluid portion, is shown by the fact that if either the whole or a piece of the vitreous humour be thrown upon a filter, a small proportion always remains upon the latter ; although by far the larger part drains away, and may be collected as a clear watery fluid. In addition to the above-mentioned concentric striation, a radial marking has also been observed in sections of the human vitreous OF THE Chromic Fig. 429.—Horizontal Section Horse's Eye, hardened in Acid (after Hannover). The vitreous humour appears concentric- ally and meridionally striated throughout its whole depth.