653 THE MEMBRANOUS LABYRINTH. spiral lamina in front of the floor of the vestibule. Near to this blind extremity the canalis membranacens receives a small canal, lined with epithelium, canalis reunicns (Hensen), which is continued from the saccule of the vestibule like the neck of a flask, and enters the canal of the cochlea abruptly nearly at a right angle (fig. 468, or). The cavity of the canalis membranaceus is thus rendered continuous with that of the saccule. It is the structures which are found upon the floor of this spirally- wound triangular canal of the cochlea that claim more particular attention, for it is to them that the branches of the cochlear nerve are distributed, and upon them the function of the cochlea as a part of the auditory apparatus appears more especially de- pendent. The floor itself of the coch- lear canal is formed of a narrow portion of the spiral lamina external to the membrane of Reissner, and of the basilar membrane. In the macerated specimen this part of the lamina thins off gradually to a fine edge like the blade of a knife, but in the recent condition (fig. 467, lis) it retains its thickness for some distance (or even exhibits a slight increase), and then ab- ruptly terminates with a border which in section is C-shaped with the lower limb of the C much more prolonged and taper- ing than the upper. This lower limb is in fact the section of the end of the osseous lamina, together with a thin mem- branous layer which covers it, and which is directly prolonged into the basilar membrane. This membrane, as well as the whole thickened upper part of the edge of the spiral lamina, not being ossified, disappears in the process of maceration. The thickened part (fig. 467, Us), with its somewhat overhanging, crest-like end (fig. 469, Or), is known as the limbus of the spiral lamina, and the groove which it overhangs, and which in section is represented by the bay of the C, is known as the spiral groove (fig. 467, ss, fig. 469, S. sp. i). The tissue of which the limbus is composed seems to be a form of connective tissue ; but it differs in different parts. Towards the under and inner part there are in particular numerous corpuscles, and the texture is distinctly fibrous, but above there are few or no corpuscles, and the tissue is more homogeneous ; although a faint fibrillation in a radial direction, i.e., from within outwards, may still be traced in it. This faintly fibrillated tissue is prolonged, as just intimated, beyond Fig. 468. Fig. 468.—The Left Labyrinth of a Child at Birth, partially opened on its outer side to show the commencement of the Membranous Canal of the Cochlea (slightly altered after Keichert). f The external or horizontal canal has been removed ; c s, superior canal ; c p, posterior canal; a s, membranous ampulla and tube of the superior canal cut short ; a h, that of the external or horizontal canal ; h, undilated end of the horizontal canal in front of the common opening of the superior and posterior canals ; p s, united superior and posterior canals ; u, utriculus ; s, sacculus ; c c, vestibular part or commencement of the membranous canal of the cochlea ; c r, canalis reuniens connecting it with the sacculus ; c, cochlea.