VASCULAR SYSTEM. 1G3 BliOOD-VESSELS. The blood, from which the solid textures immediately derive material for their nourishment, is conveyed through the body by branched tubes named blood-vessels. It is driven along these channels by the action •of the heart, which is a hollow muscular organ placed in the centre of the sanguiferous system. One set of vessels, named arteries, conduct the blood out from the heart and distribute it to the different regions ■of the body, whilst other vessels named veins bring it back to the heart again. From the extreme branches of the arteries the blood gets into the commencing branches of the veins or revehent vessels, by passing through a set of very fine tubes which connect the two, and which, though not abruptly or very definitely marked off from either, are generally spoken of as an intermediate set of vessels, and by reason of their smallness are called the capillary {i.e., hair-like) vessels, or, simply, the capillaries. The conical hollow muscular heart is divided internally into four cavities, two placed at its base, and named auricles, and two occupying the body and apex, named ventricles. The auricles are destined to re- ceive the returning blood from the great veins, which accordingly open into them, and to pass it on into the ventricles ; whilst it is the office of the latter to propel the blood through the body. The ventricles have therefore much thicker and stronger sides than the auricles, and the great arterial trunks lead off from them. Each auricle opens into the ventricle of the same side, but the right auricle and ventricle are entirely shut off from those of the left side by an impervious partition placed lengthwise in the heart. The blood is sent out by the left ventricle into the main artery of the body, named the aorta, and passes through the numerous subordinate arteries, which are branches of that great trunk, to the different parts of the system; then, traversing the capillaries, it enters the veins, and is returned by two great venous trunks, named the superior and inferior venae cavaa, to the right auricle. In passing from the arteries to the veins the blood changes in colour from red to dark, and is otherwise altered in quality ; in this condition it is unfit to be again immediately circulated through the body. On returning, therefore, to the right side of the heart, the blood, now dark and venous, must re-acquire the florid hue and other though less obvious qualities of arterial blood before it is permitted to resume its course. For this purpose, being discharged by the right auricle into the right ventricle, it is driven, by the contraction of that ventricle, along the pulmonary artery and its branches to the lungs, where, passing through the capillary vessels of these organs, it is exposed to the influence of the air, and undergoes the requisite change ; and, having now become florid again, it enters the commenc- ing branches of the pulmonary veins, which, ending by four trunks in the left auricle, convey it into that cavity, whence it is immediately dis- charged into the left ventricle to be sent again along the aorta and through the system as before. The blood may thus be considered as setting out from any given point of the sanguiferous system and returning to the same place again after performing a circuit, and this motion is what is properly termed M 2