I, 32 THE BLOOD. Leucin and Tyrosin, which exist in almost all secretions and excre- tions, probably are present in minute quantity in the blood; but as yet they have only been detected in it in disease of the liver. Sugar has been found in the blood of dogs, oxen, and cats, also in that of diseased and healthy persons. The quantity is very small. The form of sugar is that known as glucose or grape sugar. Colouring and Odoriferous Matters.—The yellowish colour and peculiar faint odour which serum possesses are probably dependent upon the presence of certain definite principles. No one has, however, as yet succeeded in isolating them. The odour of the blood is said to be of peculiar character in each species of animal, and to be heightened by the addition of sulphuric acid. Schmidt found, however, that the blood of only three animals yielded an odour distinctive of the species. Salts.—1. Having soda and potash as bases, combined with lactic, carbonic, phosphoric, sulphuric, and fatty acids. Also chlorides of sodium and potassium, the former in large proportion. Schmidt has pointed out that the potash-salts exist almost exclusively in the blood- corpuscles and the soda salts principally in the serum. In the cor- puscles there are principally chloride of potassium and phosphate of potash : in the serum, chloride of sodium and phosphate of soda. The following table (giving the mean of eight experiments) exhibits the relative quantities of potassium and sodium, and of phosphoric acid and chlorine, in the blood-corpuscles and plasma. 100 parts of Inorganic Matters. Blood-C K. vimscles. m. Pla K. sma. Na. Blood-C P05. ovpusclcs. CI. Pla POs. sma. CI. 40-89 9*71 5-19 37-7-1 17-64 21-00 6-08 40-68 The table shows that the chlorides are, relatively to the phosphates, in much larger quantity in the plasma than in the blood-corpuscles ; and that the phos- phates are, relatively to the chlorides, in much larger proportion in the blood- corpuscles than in the plasma. 2. Lactate of ammonia. 3. Salts with earthy bases, viz., lime and magnesia, with phosphoric, carbonic, and sulphuric acids. The earthy salts are for the most part associated with the albumin, but partly with the crassamentum. As they are obtained by calcination, it has been sus- pected that the phosphoric and sulphuric acids may be. in part formed by oxida- tion of the phosjjhorus and sulphur of the organic compounds. Nasse found in 1000 parts of blood 4 to 7 of alkaline, and 0-53 of earthy salts. The ashes of blood yield, according to Jarisch, 8'34 per cent, of oxide of iron, or about "0948 parts in 100 of blood. Mean Composition of Blood.—The following approximative state- ment of the mean composition of venous blood (horse) is furnished by Hoppe-Seyler :— In 1000 parts of blood- Corpuscles 326-2 Plasma 670-S