529 EXTERNAL SURFACE. fissure, and passes into the angular gyrus above the extremity of the fissure of Sylvius, except in the rare instances in which the Sylvian fissure is prolonged into the intra-parietal sulcus. Fig. 372.—Upper Sur- face of the Brain showing the convo- LUTIONS (from R. Wagner). 4 This view was taken from the brain of a famous mathematician, Professor C. F. Grauss, who died in 1854, aged 78. It is selected as an example of a well- formed brain of the average size with fully developed convolutions. a, superior or first frontal convolution ; a', second or middle frontal; a", third or inferior frontal ; A, A, ascend- . ing frontal convolution ; B, B, ascending parietal •convolution ; b, supe- rior parietal lobule ; b", inferior parietal lobule ; c, first or upper temporo- sphenoidal convolution ; d, first or upper occipi- tal convolution ; d', second or middle ; d", third or lower ; I, I, the superior longitudinal fis- sure ; r, the fissure of Rolando ; p, the external parietooccipital fissure (which appears, in consequence position of the brain, nearer than it really is to the posterior extremity). of the The angular gyms (ang. c.) is bounded in front by the terminal ascending- portion of the fissure of Sylvius, above by the intra-parietal sulcus, below it is continuous with the superior (and sometimes with the middle) temporo-sphenoidal convolution, and behind with the occipital lobe by means of one or two (second and third) annectant convolutions. The Occipital Lobe (fig. 370) lies behind the parietal, and forms the posterior extremity of the hemisphere. Below, it is continuous with the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. It occupies the superior fossa of the occipital bone, and rests on the tentorium. Its limits are to a consider- able extent artificial. In front it is bounded by the external parieto- occipital fissure, and by a line continuing the direction of the fissure across the annectant convolutions to meet the inferior boundary of the parietal lobe, and thence continued to the lower edge of this surface at the anterior edge of the tentorium. Its convolutions, complex and ill-defined, are commonly described as three in number, superior, middle, and inferior. They are continuous with the convolutions of the parietal and temporo-sphenoidal lobes by the four annectant or connecting convolutions, of which the first, passing round the extremity, or in rare cases deeply across the bottom, of the external