THE SPINAL MARROW. 7-iT Fig. 545.—Embryo of the Dog more advanced, seen from above (after Bischoff). The medullary canal is now closed in ; c, the anterior encephalic vesicle ; o, the primi- tive optic vesicle in communication with the anterior encephalic ; aw, the primitive auditory vesicle opposite the third encephalic vesicle ; am, the cephalic fold of the amnion enclosing the anterior third of the embryo ; ov, the omphalo-mesenteric vein entering the heart posteriorly ; pv, the proto-vertebral divisions, now become numerous. nervous centre is formed more immediately from the thickened medul- lary plates of the involuted epiblast, the ridges of which, rising from the surface of the blastoderm, become united dorsally along the middle line into a hollow medullary tube of a cylindrical form. This tube becomes dilated at its anterior or cephalic extremity, and this dilated portion becomes divided by two partial constrictions into the three primary cerebral or encephalic vesicles, which, as representing funda- mental portions of the brain, have been termed the fore-brain, mid-brain and hind-brain. The spinal portion retains its more uniform cylindrical shape, excepting towards the caudal extremity, where it is longer of Fig. 546. Fig. 546.—Transverse Sec- tion THROUGH THE Em- bryo of the chick, and Blastoderm at the end of the First Day. Mag- nified from 90 to 100 times (from Kolliker). li, epiblast; dd, hypoblast ; sp, mesoblast ; Pv, medullary groove ; m, medullary plates ; ch, choixk dorsalis ; uivp, proto-vertebral plate ; uwh, commencement of division of mesoblast^ into its upper and lower lamina?; between Rf and h the dorsal lamina? or ridges which by their approximation close in the medullary canal. closing, and forms for a time a flat open rhomboidal dilatation. The continuous cavity enclosed within the primitive medullary tube is the same with that which, variously modified, afterwards constitutes the central ventricles of the brain and canal of the spinal cord. The formative cells composing the medullary substance are at first spherical, but they afterwards become elongated and spindle-shaped, and increase rapidly by multiplication. They represent at first the Fig. 547. Fig. 547.—Transverse Section of the Embryo Chick on the Second Day. Mag- nified from 90 to 100 times (from Kolliker). The explanation of the letters is in part the same as in the foregoing figure, mr, iho medullary tube now closed along the dorsal line and covered in by continuous epiblast; nwh, hollow of the proto-vertebral mass; mp, mesoblast external to the protovertebrse dividing into hpl, somatopleure, and df, splanchnopleure; ao, one of the primitive aortas ; ung, intermediate mass connected with the origin of the Wolffian body.