338 THE SALIVARY GLANDS. a thin process of the glandular substance, round the posterior border of the mylo-hyoid muscle (mh), and then runs forwards and inwards above that muscle, between it and the hyo-glossus and genio-hyo- glossus, and beneath the sublingual gland, to reach the side of the fraenum linguse. Here it terminates, close to the duct of the opposite side, by a narrow orifice, which opens at the summit of a soft papilla (d) seen beneath the tongue. The obvious structure of this gland is like that of the parotid; but its lobes are larger, its surrounding areolar web is finer, and its attachments are not so firm. Moreover, its duct has much thinner coats than the parotid duct. The blood-vessels of the submaxillary gland are branches of the facial and lingual arteries and veins. The nerves include those derived from the sub- maxillary ganglion, and through this, doubtless, from the chorda tympani, as well as branches from the mylo-hyoid division of the inferior dental nerve, and the sympathetic. THE SUBLINGUAL GLAND. The sublingual gland (fig. 237), the smallest of the salivary glands, is of a narrow oblong shape and weighs scarcely one drachm. It is Fig. 237. Fig. 237.—View op the Right Sub- maxillary and Sublingual Glands from the Inside (Allen Thomson). A part of the right side of the jaw, divided from the left at the symphysis, remains ; the tongue and its muscles have been removed ; but the mucous membrane of the right side is retained and is drawn upwards so as to expose the sublingual glands ; s m, the larger- superficial part of the submaxillary gland ; /, the facial artery passing through it ; s m', deep portion prolonged' on the inner side of the mylo-hyoid muscle m h; s I, is placed below the anterior large part of the sublingual gland, with the duct of Bartholin partly shown; s I', placed above the hinder small end of the gland, indicates one or two of the ducts perforating the mucous membrane ; d, the papilla, at which the duct of Wharton opens in front behind the incisor teeth ; d', the commencement of the duct j h, the hyoid bone ; n, the gustatory nerve. situated along the floor of the mouth, where it forms a ridge between the tongue and the gums of the lower jaw, covered only by the mucous membrane. It reaches from the fraenum linguae, in front, where it is in contact with the gland of the opposite side, obliquely backwards and outwards for rather more than an inch and a half. On its inner side it rests on the genio-hyo-glossus; beneath, it is supported by the mylo- hyoid muscle (mh), which is interposed between it and the main part of the submaxillary gland; but it is here in close contact with the Whartonian duct, with the accompanying deep portion of the last-named gland, and also with the lingual branch of the fifth pair of nerves. The lobules of the sublingual gland are not so closely united together as those of the other salivary glands, and the ducts from many of them open separately into the mouth, along the ridge which indicates the position of the gland. These ducts, named ducts of Rivinus, are from eight to twenty in number. Some of them open into the duct of