CARTILAGE. 72 CART IL AGE. This is the well-known substance commonly called "gristle." The following are its more obvious characters. When in mass, it is opaque and of a pearly or bluish white colour, in some varieties yellow ; but in thin slices it is translucent. Although it can be easily cut with a sharp knife, it is nevertheless of very firm consistence, but at the same time highly elastic, so that it readily yields to pressure or torsion, and immediately recovers its original shape when the constraining force is withdrawn. By reason of these mechanical properties, it is rather extensively used in the construction of the body. Its specific gravity is 1-15. In the early embryo the skeleton is, in great part, cartilaginous ; but the cartilage forming its different pieces, which have the outward form of the future bones, in due time undergoes ossification or gives place to bone, in the greater part of its extent at least, and hence this variety of cartilage is named " temporary." Of the permanent cartilages a great many are in immediate con- nection with bone, and may be still said to form part of the skeleton. The chief of these are the articular and the costal cartilages ; the former cover the ends or surfaces of bones in the joints, and afford these harder parts a thick springy coating, which breaks the force of concussion and gives ease to their motions; the costal or rib-cartilages form a considerable part of the solid framework of the thorax, and impart elasticity to its walls. Other permanent cartilages enter into the formation of the external ear, the nose, the eyelids, the Eustachian tube, the larynx, and the windpipe. They strengthen the substance of these parts without undue rigidity ; maintaining their shape, keeping open the passages through them where such exist, and giving attach- ment to moving muscles and connecting ligaments. Cartilages, except those of the joints, are covered externally with a fibrous membrane named the perichondrium. When a very thin slice of cartilage is examined with the microscope, it is seen to consist of nucleated cells, also named cartilage-corpuscles, disseminated in a solid mass or matrix. (Fig. 42.) The matrix is sometimes transparent, and to all appearance homo- geneous ; sometimes dim and very faintly granular, like ground glass: both these conditions occur in hyaline cartilage, which may be regarded as the most typical form of the tissue. Two varieties exist in which the matrix is pervaded to a greater or less extent by fibres. In the one named elastic or yellotu cartilage, the fibres are similar to those of elastic tissue ; in the other, named fibro-cartilaye, they are of the white kind as in ordinary ligament. HYALINE CARTILAGE. In hyaline cartilage the matrix, as just stated, is uniform and, in the normal state, free from fibres. The cells consist of a rounded, oval, or bluntly angular cell-body of translucent, but sometimes finely gran- ular-looking substance (fig. 42, h), with a round nucleus (n), which is either clear or of a coarsely granular appearance, and one or more nucleoli. The cell-body lies in a cavity of the matrix, which, in its natural condition, it entirely fills. This cavity is bounded and inclosed