676 THE OVUM AND BLASTODERM. oviduct, and it is now ascertained that the spermatozoa not only adhere in numbers to the external surface of the ovum, but actually penetrate through the zona, so as to come in contact with and possibly also com- bine with the substance of the yolk (see figs. 491, 492, and 493). We are, however, entirely ignorant of the nature of the operation of the spermatozoa upon the substance of the germ. The shrivelled remains of these particles are seen for days adherent to the ova, and even in the substance of the germ, and though doubtless they at last disappear, it has not been determined whether this is by combination of their sub- stance with that of the germ or in what other way the mutual or reciprocal action of the male and female generative elements may take place. The fact remains as one of the most remarkable in the whole range of biological phenomena, that by the contact of an inappreciable amount of the male product with the germinal material of the ovum, the latter passes from an apparently inert condition into one of genetic activity, Fig. 491. Fig. 491.—Ovum of the Rabbit from the Fallopian Tube, twelve hours after Im- pregnation (from. Bischoff). 2f° A few granular cells adhere to the outer surface of the zona, in which and in the zona itself sper- matozoa are seen ; a, zona; b, two hyaline globules within the cavity left by the shrinking of the yolk. the ultimate result of which is the ac- complishment of a series of the most com- plicated phenomena of organic formation and growth, giving rise to a new being, which, while it may be of either sex, repeats in all respects the characters of the species, and may inherit in a greater or less degree the minutest peculiarities, whether structural or functional, of either or of both its parents. There are two changes following impregnation which have been observed in the mammal's ovum, and which are deserving of notice, though their import is not yet known. One of these changes consists in a certain contraction or diminu- tion in the size, and an increase in the apparent compactness or firmness of the mass of the yolk, so that a larger space than before, filled with clear fluid, comes to intervene between the yolk and the surrounding zona. The other change referred to is the appearance in this space of one, or most frequently two, and occasionally of three, clear or hyaline spherules, which are easily dis- tinguished from the surrounding fluid by their peculiar highly refracting out- line (Quatrefages, Ed. Van Beneden, Bischoff). These spherules are of variable size, but generally their diameter is from one-tenth to one-fifteenth of that of the mammal's ovum. (fig. 491, b, and 492, A). They are perfectly hyaline and homogeneous and do not appear to possess any external envelope. They remain visible for some days during the early phases of yolk-segmentation, about to be described, and hence by some they have been named segmentation globules. Their source and destination, however, are entirely unknown. Segmentation of the yolk or germ.—After the disappearance of the germinal vesicle the germinal part of the yolk constitutes for a time a non-nucleated mass of protoplasm ; and if then subjected to the influence of fecundation it undergoes the change of segmentation, which results in the conversion of the germ or germinal part of the yolk into