FARTHER DEVELOPMENT OF THE EXTERNAL ORGANS. S25 into the urogenital sinus. Within the vestibule, which is the shortened but widened remains of the urogenital sinus, the urethral orifice is seen, the urethra itself undergoing considerable elongation. In the male, on the contrary, the penis continues to enlarge, and the margins of the groove along its under surface gradually unite from the primitive urethral orifice behind, as far forwards as the glans, so as to complete the long canal of the male urethra, which is therefore a prolongation of the urogenital sinus. This is accomplished about the fifteenth week. When this union remains incomplete, the abnormal condition named hypospadias is produced. In the meantime the prepuce is formed, and, moreover, the lateral cutaneous folds also unite from behind forwards, along the middle line or raphe, and thus complete the scrotum, into which the testicles descend in the course of the eighth month of foetal life. The corpora cavernosa, which are at first separate, become united in their distal portions in both sexes; but the corpus spongiosum urethras which is also originally divided in all embryoes, and in the female remains so in the greater part of its extent, becomes enlarged in the male in the glans penis, and its two parts united mesially both above and below the urethra, so as to enclose the whole of that tube from the bulb forwards to the glans. TYPE OP DEVELOPMENT AND ABNORMAL FORMS OP THE GENITAL ORGANS. The type of development of the genital organs may be stated to differ in the several parts of the system in the two sexes as follows, viz. :— 1st. It is single and homological in the external organs. 2nd. It is double and heterological in the middle organs or passages. 3rd. It is partially double and heterological in the productive organs. Accordingly the congenital malformations of the reproductive organs admit of being distributed under the following divisions :— 1st. Abnormal forms attributable to deficient, redundant, or abnormal modes of development of one or more of the external organs in either sex, producing an approach to the form of the other sex. 2nd. Forms referrible to deficient, redundant, or abnormal modes of develop- ment of one or other of the two sets of sexual passages, viz., of the Wolffian or Miillerian ducts, so as to lead to the greater or less predominance of sexual characters in a part or the whole of these passages inconsistent with those pre- vailing in other parts of the system, or to the coexistence of both sets of pas- sages in whole or in part. 3rd. Extremely rare forms referrible to the possible coexistence of the produc- tive parts of testicles and ovaries in the same individual, usually combined with more or less of the foregoing kinds of malformation. Upon the subject of these malformations the reader may consult the learned and able article Hermaphroditism by Sir James Y. Simpson in the Cyclop, of Anat. and Physiol. Upon the subject of malformations in general the following works are recom- mended, viz. :— Isid. Geoff. St. Hilaire, Hist. Gen. et Partic. des Anomalies de l'Organisa- tion, &c, 3 torn. Paris, 1832—6 ; Cruveilhier, Anat. Pathol., &c, Paris, 1830—42. Otto, Sexcentorum Monstrorum desc Anat. Vratisl., 1841 ; Th. L. W. Bischoff, Uber Missbildungen, &c, in R. Wagner's Handworterbuch der Physiol., 1813 ; Wm. Vrolik, Tab. ad illustr. Embryol. Horn, et Mammal, tarn Natur. quam Abnor- mem, Amstel., 1819, and the article " Teratology " by the same author in Todd's Cyclop, of Anat. and Physiol.; Aug. Forster, Die Missbildungen des Menschen, &c, Jena, 1861 ; as also the systematic works of Rokitanski and others on Patho- logical Anatomy. The following tabular scheme of the Corresponding Parts of the genito-urinary organs in the two sexes, and of their relation to the Formative Rudiments of the common embryonic type, may be useful in