602 THE EYE. the pupil, near which they join in a series of irregular elevations ; and, internal to these, other finer lines pass to the pupil. The posterior surface is covered with dark pigment, prolonged from the pigmentary layer of the retina ; and, this being removed, there is seen at the margin of the pupil a narrow circular band of fibres (sphincter muscle of the pupil), with which the converging lines are blended. The pupil is nearly circular in form, and is placed a little to the inner side of the centre of the iris. It varies in size according to the contraction or relaxation of the muscular fibres, this variation ranging from J^th to 4rd of an inch, and regulating the quantity of light admitted to the eyeball. STRUCTURE OF THE IRIS. Fibrous and muscular tissues form the framework of the iris, and pigment cells are scattered through the texture. It contains also numerous vessels and nerves. In front and behind is placed a distinct layer of pigmented cells. The delicate epithelioid layer of the membrane of Descemet (fig. 403,2) is continued from the margin of the cornea over the front of the iris ; its cells are smaller and more granular than those which cover the membrane of Descemet, but are otherwise similar. The stroma consists of cells and fibres of connective tissue, the latter directed radially towards the pupil, and circularly at the circumfer- ence ; these, interweaving with one another, form a web which is more open in the substance of the iris than near the surfaces. The muscular tissue is of the non-striated kind, and is disposed as a ring (sphincter) around the pupil, and as rays (dilatator) from the centre to the circum- ference. The sphincter (fig. 411, a) is.,the flat narrow band on the posterior surface of the iris, close to the pupil, and is about J-gth of an inch wide. At the edge of the pupil the fibres are close together, but at the periphe- ral border they are separated, and form less complete rings. The dilatator (b, b), less apparent than the sphincter, begins at the ciliary or outer margin of the iris, and its fibres, collected into bundles, or forming a continuous membrane, situated near the posterior surface, converge towards the pupil, and form a network by their intercom- munications. At the pupil they blend with the sphincter, some reach- Fig. 411. Fig. 411.—A SMALL PART OP THE IRIS, SHOWING the Muscular Structure (from Kolliker). 350 Diameters. The specimen is from an albino-rabbit, and has been treated with acetic acid : a, the sphincter muscle at the margin of the pupil ; h, fasciculi of the dilatator muscle ; c, connective tissue with nuclei of cells rendered evident by the acid.