169 STRUCTURE OF ARTERIES. amount, or one may predominate, the other diminishing or even disappearing altogether. Middle coat (fig. 107, c). This consists of plain muscular tissue, in fine bundles, disposed circularly round the vessel, and consequently tearing off in a circular direction, although the individual bundles do not form complete rings. The considerable thickness of the walls of the larger arteries is due chiefly to this coat; and in the smaller ones, it is said to be thicker in comparison with the calibre of the vessel. In the largest vessels and in some small ones it is made up of many layers; and elastic films either finely reticular, or quite similar to the fenestrated membrane of the inner coat, are often found between the layers. The middle coat is of a tawny or reddish yellow colour, not unlike that of the elastic tissue, but, when quite fresh, it has a softer and more translucent aspect. Its more internal part is often described as redder than the rest, but the deeper tint is probably due to staining by the blood after death. This coat consists mainly of muscular fibre cells (fig. 112 and fig. 113), Fig. 112. Fig. 113. Fig. 112.—Muscular Fibre-cells from Human Arteries. Magnified 350 Diameters. 1. From the popliteal artery ; a, natural; h, treated with acetic acid. 2. From a small branch of the posterior tibial (from Kdlliker). Fig. 113.—Muscular Fibre-cells from Superior Thyroid Artery (Man). 340 Diameters. seldom more than from to of an inch long and frequently presenting a very irregular shape with jagged extremities (fig. 113). Their nuclei are markedly rod shaped and are often slightly curved. Cells are occasionally met with, especially in the larger arteries, which appear to present transitions to the forked cells of which the muscular substance of the heart is composed. Fine elastic fibres are also com- monly to be found in this coat mixed with the muscular bundles, and traversing the layers in form of elastic networks, which in the larger arteries pass into the elastic laminae already mentioned. The elastic fibres are accompanied by white fibres of areolar tissue in