THE CEKEBEO-SPIXAL AXIS. 439 THE CEREBROSPINAL AXIS. Under this head it is intended to describe the Central Organs of the Nervous System, both as regards their general conformation and their minute structure. The central ganglia of the sympathetic system have been described along with the sympathetic nerves. The cerebrospinal axis is contained partly within the cavity of the cranium, and partly within the vertebral canal; it is divided by anato- mists into the brain or encephalon, and the enlarged upper mass placed within the cranium, and the spinal cord contained within the vertebral canal. It is symmetrical in . its form and structure throughout, con- sisting of a right and a left half, separated to a certain extent by longitudinal fissures, and presenting, in their plane of union, various portions of white and grey nervous substance which cross from one side to the other, and form the commissures of the brain and spinal cord. Enclosed within the skull and the vertebral canal, the cerebro-spinal axis is protected by the bony walls of those two cavities ; it is also surrounded by three membranes, which afford it additional protection and support, and are subservient to its nutrition. These envelopes, which will be described hereafter, are, 1st, a dense fibrous membrane named the dura mater, which is placed most superficially ; 2nd, a serous membrane called the arachnoid; and, 3rd, a highly vascular mem- brane named the pia mater, which is next to, and closely invests the surface of the brain and cord. A.—SPINAL CORD. EXTERNAL FORM. The spinal cord, or spinal marrow (medulla spinalis), is that part of the cerebro-spinal axis which is situated within the vertebral canal. It extends from the margin of the foramen magnum of the occipital bone to about the lower part of the body of the first lumbar vertebra. Above, it is continued into the medulla oblongata ; below, it ends in a slender filament, the filum terminate or central ligament of the spinal cord (fig. 344 b'). Invested closely by a proper membrane (the pia mater), the cord is enclosed within a sheath (theca) considerably longer and larger than itself, formed by the dura mater, and separated from the walls of the canal by numerous venous plexuses, and much loose areolar tissue (fig. 345). Between the dura-matral sheath and the pia mater is another membrane (the arachnoid), and between the latter and the pia mater is a fluid called the cerebro-spinal fluid. Within this space the cord is kept in position by proper ligaments, which fix it at different points to its sheath, and by the roots of the spinal nerves,—an anterior and a posterior root belonging to each,—which pass across the space from the surface of the cord towards the intervertebral foramina. From