SUBCRANIAL AND FACIAL STRUCTURES. 730 of the pterygopalatine wall of the nose and mouth, and the superior maxillary bone. The nasal pits or primary nasal depres- sions, which extend themselves afterwards into the nasal fossse, and remain permanently open to the exterior, are formed by a depres- sion of the surface of the epiblast in the anterior prolongation of the head as constituted by the ends of the trabecular, and the harder structures of the septum and walls of the nasal cavities, as well as the turbinated structures on which the olfactory nerves are distributed, are all derived from the anterior parts of these trabecular ;—a mesial union giving rise to the nasal septum, while lateral parts circling round the nasal pits, form the alar enclosures of these depressions (see figs. 537 and 538). The second preoral subcranial plates have received the name pterygo- palatine from the nature of their deeper connection with the bar in which the pterygoid and palate-bones are afterwards formed. These enclose the posterior nasal apertures, and advancing from the two sides, at last meet each other in the palate, and in front meet the pre-maxil- lary process to complete the palate and upper jaw. But these are only the deeper parts of the structure out of which the upper jaw is formed, there being on the surface of the head, and behind the depression of the eye on each side, a bulging process known as the superior maxillary process, in which the upper jaw and malar bone are formed, and which has externally the appearance of bending round the angle of the mouth in continuity with the mandibular or inferior maxillary. The formation of the superficial parts of the face, as seen from before, may be described as follows, viz.:—In the middle, there descends in what now forms the region of the forehead, a mesial portion, the fronto-nasal plate, which forms the integument of the nose, as far as the inside of the nostrils, and the columella of the nose, together with the mesial part or lunula of the upper lip, that is, all the part lying inside the depression of the nostrils. On the outside of these depressions, a short lappet surrounds the orifice of the nostrils, as wings forming the external nasal processes. It is towards the outside of these last plates that the ocular depression is situated, that depression being thus interposed between the lateral or external nasal plate, and the maxillary plate, and forming the fissure which has been called the ocular fissure, but which afterwards becomes more strictly the lachrymal in its anterior part (see figs. 536 and 539). The great buccal aperture now passes across the face, having the middle and external nasal with the superior maxillary plates above and in front, and the inferior maxillary plates below and behind. It will be remembered, however, that the cavity of the mouth is thrown forward by the outward development of the subcranial plates, which deepen more and more the buccal cavity as they grow outwards from the primitive cranium. The postoral pairs of pharyngeal visceral plates are four in number; the first being that already mentioned as following immediately behind the mouth, and forming the mandibular or inferior maxillary. At an early period of fcetal life in the human foetus, and in that of all vertebrates, plates of this description are found, but in the lower vertebrates a greater number exists than in the higher. The number of four pairs belongs to man in common with all the non-branchiate vertebrates. Behind each of these plates there are formed from within,