STRUCTURE OF THE TRACHEA. 267 of the latter, and encroach also for a short distance upon their inner surface. Outside the transverse fibres are a few fasciculi having a longi- tudinal direction. These are said to arise by minute tendons of elastic tissue, in part from the inner surface of the end of the tracheal rings, and in part from the external fibrous membrane. Situated in the submucous tissue immediately beneath the mucous membrane are numerous longitudinal fibres of elastic tissue. They are found all round the tube, but are much more abundant along the posterior membranous part, where they are principally collected into distinct longitudinal bundles, which produce visible elevations or ■flutings of the mucous membrane. These bundles are particularly strong and numerous opposite the bifurcation of the trachea. The elastic fibres serve to restore the windpipe to its ordinary size after it has been stretched. A quantity of adipose tissue is often found in the submucous areolar tissue. The trachea is provided with numerous small mucous glands. The largest are situated at the back part of the tube, either close upon the outer surface of the fibrous layer, or occupying little recesses formed between its meshes. They are compound glands, and their cavities are lined by a columnar or cubical epithelium : their excretory ducts pass through the muscular layer and the mucous membrane, on the surface of which multitudes of minute orifices are perceptible. Similar but smaller glands are found between the cartilaginous rings, upon and within the fibrous membrane, and still smaller ones close beneath the mucous membrane. The mucous membrane is smooth and of a pale pinkish white colour in health, although when congested or inflamed, it becomes in- tensely purple or crimson. It contains a considerable amount of lymphoid tissue, the reticulum of which is condensed immediately underneath the epithelium into a well-marked basement membrane, com- posed of flattened cells which send processes up amongst the epithelium cells. In the deeper parts of the mucous membrane a large number of fine elastic fibres are found. The epithelium consists of more than one layer of cells. The most superficial (fig. 24, p. 47), are columnar and cili- ated, and send processes, which are often branched, downwards into the subjacent tissue, to join, it is said, with processes from connective tissue corpuscles. The cilia serve to drive the mucous secretion upwards towards •the larynx. Between the smaller or attached ends of these ciliated cells, are found elongated, often spindle-shaped cells, which commonly are prolonged at one end towards the surface, whilst the other end, which is not unfrequently forked, reaches to the subjacent membrane. One or more layers of smaller, more irregularly-shaped cells occupy the deeper part of the epithelium : amongst the epithelial cells a few leucocytes are also found. The cells generally contain mucus, and lience are readily converted into goblets (see p. 211). Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the trachea are principally derived from the inferior thyroid. The larger branches run for some distance longitudinally, and then form a superficial plexus with rounded meshes. The veins enter the adjacent plexuses of the thyroid veins. A rich plexus of lymphatics may readily be injected in the mucous membrane and submucous tissue, but the lymphoid follicles, so common