276 THE LUNGS. but it varies from Tioth to ^th of an inch; they are larger on the- surface than in the interior, and largest towards the thin edges of the organ: they are also said to be very large at the apex of the lung. Their dimensions go on increasing from birth to old age, and they are larger in men than in women. In the infant the diameter is usually under ^^th of an inch. The small bronchial tube, as already stated, entering a lobule divides and subdivides a variable number of times, according to the size of the lobule ; its divisions, losing their cylindrical form, and being converted into irregular lobular passages, are beset, at first sparingly, but after- wards closely and on all sides, with numerous little recesses or dilata- tions, and ultimately terminate near the surface of the lobule in a group of similar recesses. These small recesses, whether seated along the course or at the extremity of an air pas- sage, are the air-cells, or alveoli; and each group of alveoli, with the compara- tively large passage between them, con- stitutes an ultimate lobule, or infundin bulum, so called from the manner in which it dilates towards its extremity. The arrangement of these finest air- passages and air-cells closely resem- bles, though on a smaller scale, the reticulated structure of the tortoise's lung, in which large open passages lead in all directions to clusters of wide alveoli, separated from each! other by intervening septa of various depths. At the point where the small bron- chial tubes lose their cylindrical cha- racter,, and become covered on all sides with the cells, their structural elements also undergo a change. The muscular layer disappears or almost so, the longi- tudinal elastic bundles are broken up into an interlacement of areolar and elastic tissue, which surrounds the com- mencements of the infandibula, and the columnar ciliated epithelium gives place to a stratum of cubical non- ciliated cells. The walls of the alveoli, which mainly consist of an indistinctly fibrillated connective tissue with corpuscles scattered here and there, are supported and strengthened by scattered and coiled elastic fibres, especially numerous near their orifices, in addition to which, according to Moleschott and others, there is likewise an inter- mixture of muscular fibre-cells. The air-cells are lined by a delicate layer of tesselated epithelium, which is most easily demonstrated in the young subject (fig. 185) but is present also in the adult: here, however, the cells are less regular both in size and shape. Their outlines may best be brought into view by treating the tissue with nitrate of silver": their nuclei are for the most part round, and are thus distinguishable from the more oval nuclei of the connective tissue and walls of the blood-vessels. A number of granular rounded amoeboid cells are usually Fig. 184. — Semidiagrammatic he- presentation of Two Infundibu- la, from near the surface of the Lung of a New-Born Child (from Kolliker). 25 Diameters. a, exterior of the two lobuli or infundibula ; b, pulmonary vesicles or alveoli on these and on c, the smallest bronchial ramifications.