54 CONNECTIVE TISSUE. of the areolar tissue has been named the " penetrating," " constituent,"' or " parenchymal." It thus appears that the areolar is one of the most general and most extensively distributed of the tissues. It is, moreover, continuous throughout the body, and from one region it may be traced without interruption into any other, however distant; a fact not without interest in practical medicine, seeing that in this way dropsical waters, air, blood, and urine, effused into the areolar tissues, and even the matter of suppuration, when not confined in an abscess, may spread far from the spot where they were first introduced or deposited. On stretching out a portion of areolar tissue by drawing gently asunder the parts between which it lies, it presents an appearance to the naked eye of a multitude of fine, soft, and somewhat elastic threads, quite trans- parent and colourless, like spun glass ; these are intermixed with fine transparent films, or delicate membranous laminae, and both threads and laminae cross one another irregularly and in all imaginable directions leaving open interstices or areolae between them. These meshes are, of course, more apparent when the tissue is thus stretched out; it is plain also that they are not closed cells, as the term " cellular tissue " might seem to imply, but merely interspaces, which open freely into one another : many of them are occupied by the fat, which, however, does not lie loose in the areolar spaces, but is enclosed in its own vesicles. A small quantity of colourless transparent fluid is also present in the areolar tissue, but, in health, not more than is sufficient to moisten it. This fluid is generally said to be of the nature of serum ; but it is not improbable that, unless when unduly increased in quantity or altered in nature by disease, it may resemble more the liquor sanguinis, as is the case with the fluid of most of the serous membranes. On comparing the areolar tissue of different parts, it is observed in some to be more loose and open in texture, in others more dense and close, according as free movement or firm connection between parts is to be provided for. In some situations, too, the laminae are more numerous ; in others the filamentous structure predominates, or even prevails exclusively ; but it does not seem necessary to designate these varieties by particular names, as is sometimes done. Fibres.—When examined under the microscope, the areolar tissue is seen to be principally made up of exceedingly fine, transparent, and apparently homogeneous filaments, from about -5-0^00th to %5-5-ooth of an inch in thickness, or even less (fig. 28). These are seldom single, being mostly united by means of a small and usually imperceptible quantity of a homogeneous connecting substance into bundles and filamentous laminae of various sizes, which to the naked eye, appear as simple threads and films. Though the bundles may intersect in every direction, the filaments of the same bundle run nearly parallel to each other, and no one filament is ever seen to divide into branches or to unite with another. The associated filaments take an alternate bending or waving course as they proceed along the bundle, but still maintain their general parallelism. This wavy aspect, which is very characteristic of these filaments, disappears on stretching the bundle, but returns again when it is relaxed. The filaments just described, though transparent when seen with transmitted light under the microscope, appear white when col- lected in considerable quantity and seen with reflected light; and they