BOXE. 80 moveably together, serve also as levers for executing the movements of the body. While substantially consisting of hard matter, bones in the living body are covered with periosteum and filled with marrow; they are also pervaded by vessels for their nutrition. Physical Properties of Bone.—Bone has a white 'colour, with a pink and slightly bluish tint in the living body. Its hardness is well known, but it also possesses a certain degree of toughness and elasticity; the last property is peculiarly well marked in the ribs. Its specific gravity is from 1*87 to 1*97. Chemical Composition.—Bone consists of an earthy and an animal part, intimately combined together; the former gives hardness and rigidity, the latter tenacity, to the osseous tissue. The earthy part may be obtained separate by calcination. When bones are burned in an open fire, they first become quite black, like a piece of burnt wood, from the charring of their animal matter; but if the fire be continued with free access of air, this matter is entirely consumed, and they are reduced to a white, brittle, chalk-like sub- stance, still preserving their original shape, but with the loss of about a third of their weight. The earthy constituent, therefore, amounts to about two-thirds of the weight of the bone. It consists principally of phosphate of lime, with about a fifth part of carbonate of lime, and much smaller proportions of fluoride of calcium, chloride of sodium, and magnesian salts. The animal constituent may be freed from the earthy, by steeping a bone in diluted hydrochloric acid. By this process the salts of lime are dissolved out, and a tough flexible substance remains, which, like the earthy part, retains the perfect figure of the original bone in its minutest details ; so that the two are evidently combined in the most intimate manner. The animal part is often named the cartilage of bone, but improperly, for it differs entirely from cartilage in structure, as well as in physical properties and chemical nature. It is much softer and much more flexible, and by boiling it is almost wholly resolved into gelatin. It may accordingly be extracted from bones, in form of a jelly, by boiling them for a considerable time, especially under high pressure. The earthy or saline matter of bone, as already stated, constitutes about two- thirds or 66*7 per cent., and the animal part one-third, or 33-3 per cent.; but from observations made on animals, it appears that the proportion of the several con- stituents may differ somewhat in different individuals of the same species under apparently similar conditions. The proportion of earthy matter appears to- increase for some time after birth, and is considerably greater in adults than in infants ; but, from the varying conditions of individuals as to health and nutri- tion in after life, there is as yet no thoroughly comparable series of experiments to determine whether any constant difference exists in old age. Moreover, it is not clearly established that the differences observed depend on the composition of the proper osseous substance ; for the larger proportion of animal matter in infancy may be due to the greater vascularity of infantile bones and the difficulty of thoroughly removing the vessels from their pores. The spongy osseous tissue, carefully freed from fat and adhering membranous matter, has been found to contain rather less earth than the compact substance ; and, in accordance with this result, differences, although on the whole insignificant, have been found in different bones of the skeleton, apparently depending on the relative amount of their compact and spongy tissue. (Rees, Von Bibra, Alphonse Milne-Edwards.) Here again it remains to be shown that the result is not due to differences in the