FORMATION OF LYMPH-CORPUSCLES. 39 Human lymph has been obtained fresh from the living* body in several instances, from lymphatic vessels, opened by wounds or other causes. It has been found to agree in all material points with the lymph of quadrupeds. The chyle of man and mammiferous animals is an opaque, white fluid, like milk, with a faint odour and saltish taste, slightly alkaline or altogether neutral in its reaction. It has often a decided red tint, especially when taken from the thoracic duct. This colour, which is heightened by exposure to air, is doubtless generally due to the presence of blood-corpuscles, and may be explained in the same way as the occasional red colour of lymph. Like blood and lymph, both of which fluids it greatly resembles in constitution, the chyle consists of a liquid holding small parti- cles in suspension. These particles are, 1. Corpuscles, precisely like the lymph and pale blood-corpuscles already described. 2. Molecules, of almost immeasurably minute but remarkably uniform size. These abound in the fluid, and form an opaque white molecular matter diffused in it, which was named by Gulliver the molecular oase of the chyle. The addition of ether instantly dissolves this matter, and renders the chyle nearly, but not quite, transparent; whence it may be inferred that the molecules are minute particles of fatty matter, and no doubt the chief cause of the opacity and whiteness of the chyle. According to the late H. Miiller, they are each coated with a fine film of albuminoid matter. They exhibit the usual tremulous movement com- mon to the molecules of many other substances. 3. Oil-glooules; these are of various sizes, but much larger than the molecules above de- scribed, and are often found in the chyle in considerable numbers. 4, Minute spherules (Gulliver), from to q-^oo °f an mcn i11 diameter; probably of an albuminous nature, and distinguished from the fatty molecules by their varying magnitude and their insolubility in ether. The plasma, or liquid part of the chyle, contains fibrin, so that chyle coagulates on being drawn from the vessels, and nearly all the corpuscles, with part of the molecular base, are involved in the clot. The serum which remains resembles in composition the serum of lymph ; the most notable difference between them being the larger pro- portion of fatty matter contained in the chyle-serum. The following- analyses of lymph, and chyle exhibit the proportions of the different ingredients ; but it must be explained that the amount of the corpuscles cannot be separately given, the greater part of them being included in the clot and reckoned as fibrin. No. 1 is the mean of two analyses, by Gubler and Quevenne, of human lymph taken during life from the lymphatics of the thigh ; No. 2 the mean of three analyses by Gmelin of lymph from the thoracic duct of horses after privation of food; No. 3, by 0. Rees, of chyle from the lacteals of an ass, after passing the mesenteric glands. I. II. III. Water . 937-32 939-70 902-37 Fibrin 0-595 10-60 3-70 Albumin . 42-775 38-83 35-16 Fat . 6-51 a little 36-01 Extractive matter Salts. 5-05 ) 7-75 ] 10-87 22-76 1.00U- 1000- 1000-