008 THE EYE. Fig. 420. The following are the designations of the layers, from within out- wards :— 1. The layer of nerve-fibres (nerve-layer). 2. The layer of nerve-cells (ganglionic layer). 3. The inner molecular layer. 4. The inner nuclear layer. 5. The outer molecular layer (internuclear). 6. The outer nuclear layer. 7. The layer of rods and cones (columnar layer, Jacob's membrane). 8. The layer of hexagonal pigment cells (pigmentary layer). In addition to these eight strata two excessively delicate membranes are described—the one, mcmbrana Umitans interna, bounding the retina on its inner surface, next to the hyaloid membrane of the vitreous humour ; the other, membrdna Umitans externa, lying between the outer nuclear layer and the layer of rods and cones; but, as will be afterwards explained, these so-called " membranes " are merely the boundary lines of the sustentacular tissue of the retina. The accompanying figure, from Max Schultze, represents (somewhat diagrammatically) the general arrangement and structure of the layers. 1. Layer of nerve-fibres. — The optic nerve (fig. 418, bb) passes at the porus opticus directly through the thick- ness of the retina to reach its inner surface, on which it spreads out in form of a membrane (fig. 420) towards the ora serrata. Its fibres, which are destitute of a primitive sheath and vary much in size, lose their medullary sheath on reaching the retina, consisting there of axis-cylinder only (Bowman). They are collected into small bundles, which, compressed laterally, intercommunicate and form a delicate web with narrow elongated meshes. At the yellow spot this layer is wanting (fig. 420, b), else- where it forms a continuous stratum, gradually diminishing in thickness in front, interrupted only by the enlarged ends of the fibres of Muller to be after- wards described (p. 615). The nerve- bundles, as well as the cells of the next layer, are partially covered and sup- ported by flattened connective tissue corpuscles. 2. Ganglionic layer.—Immediately external to the nerve-fibre layer is a stratum of nerve-cells (figs. 419, 422, 2), of a spheroidal or pyriform figure, and having in the fresh condition a pellucid aspect. Each cell has a single un- branched process extending obliquely from its rounded inner extremity amongst the fibres of the preceding layer, with one of which it is no doubt continuous. From the opposite ■ ■■■■■ Fig. 420.—Part of the Layer of L, Nerve-Fibres on the Inner Surface of the Retina (K61- |" liker). Slightly Magnified. a, collicnlus opticus; h, yellow spot ; c, d, bundles of nerve fibres passing round this ; e, e, bundles radiating in all directions from the point of entrance of the nerve.