S8 BONE. or slantingly through a board (fig. 52, c); -whilst the lamellse at other parts present obvious apertures of eonsiderable size, through which perforating fibres had passed (as at a). These perforating fibres exist very generally in the bones of vertebrata. The late Henry Mtiller, of Wiirzburg, has supplied many details respecting their arrangement in man and mammalia* Kolliker considers them to be connected with the periosteum, and this, no doubt, is the case with some of them—some of those, for example, which penetrate the external table of the cranial bones ; but in cross sections of cylindrical bones they often appear to spring, with their broad ends, from the deeper laniellee, and taper outwards into fine points, which do not reach the periosteum ; although without doubt they must, like the bony layers in which they occur, have been formed by subperiosteal ossification. They are rarely found, and when present are smaller, in the concentric systems of Haversian lamella?; in this case they must of course have been formed from the osteoblastic tissue (similar in nature to that under the periosteum) which occupied the medullary spaces and produced the concentric lamina?. Perforating fibres exist abundantly in the cvusta petrosa of the teeth. Fig. 52. Fig. 52.—Lamella torn off from a Decalcified Human Parietal Bone at SOME DEPTH FROM THE SURFACE. a, a lamella, showing reticular fibres ; b, b, darker part, where several lamellse are superposed; c, c, perforating fibres. Apertures through which perforating fibres had passed, are seen especially in the lower part, a, a, of the figure. Magnitude as seen under a power of 200, but not drawn to a scale (from a drawing by Allen Thomson). The perforating fibres, or rather bundles of fibres, for the most part agree in character with the white fibrous tissue, but some, according to H. Midler, are of the nature of elastic tissue. H. Mtiller has shown that in some parts the fibres escape calcification, and thus, as they shrink in drying, leave tubes or channels in the dry bone, generally leading from the surface inwardly. In this way he explains the nature and mode of production of the " tubes " described by Tomes and De Morgan as penetrating the bone in certain situations, and conjectured by them to be modified lacunos.t There can be no doubt of the correctness of * Wurzburger Naturw. Zeitschr., vol. i., p. 290. f Phil. Trans. 1853, p. 116.