638 THE EAR. The tensor tympani (musculus interims mallei) (fig. 449, 7), is the largest of these muscles. It consists of a tapering fleshy part, about half an inch in length, and a slender tendon. The muscular fibres arise from the cartilaginous end of the Eustachian tube and the adjoining surface of the sphenoid bone, and from the sides of the upper compart- ment of the Eustachian orifice. In this canal the muscle is conducted nearly horizontally backwards to the cavity of the tympanum. Imme- diately in front of the fenestra ovalis the tendon of the muscle bends at nearly a right angle over the end of the processus cochleariformis as round a pulley, and, contained in a fibrous sheath, passes outwards, to be inserted into the inner part of the handle of the malleus, close to its root. The laxator tympani (laxator tympani major, Sommerring) is generally believed to be distinctly muscular, but being partly concealed by a band of fibrous tissue, doubts are still entertained by some observers as to whether the structure known under this name is of a muscular or ligamentous nature. Arising from the spinous process of the sphenoid bone, and slightly from the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube, it is directed backwards, passes through the Glaserian fissure, and is inserted into the neck of the malleus, just above the root of the pro- cessus gracilis. The laxator tynvpani minor of Sommerring (posterior ligament of the malleus, Lincke) is made up of reddish fibres, which are fixed at one end to the upper and back part of the external auditory meatus, pass forwards and inwards between the middle and inner layers of the membrana tympani, and are inserted into the outer border of the handle of the malleus, and the short process near it (Som- merring, Icones Organi Auditus Humani, 1801). The stapedius is a very distinct muscle, but is hid within the bone, being lodged in the descending part of the aqueductus Fallopii and in the hollow of the pyramid. The tendon issues from the aperture at the apex of that little elevation, and passing forwards, surrounded by a fibrous sheath, is inserted into the neck of the stapes posteriorly, close to the articulation of that bone with the lenticular process of the incus. A very slender spine of bone has been found occasionally in the tendon of the stapedius in man : and a similar piece of bone, though of a rounder shape, exists constantly in the horse, the ox, and other animals. This circumstance is the more interesting in connection with the fact that cartilage occupies the position of the stapedius before the muscle is developed. Fig. 450.—Outline op the Three Small Bones of the Left Ear as seen from before. Twice the natural size. This figure is designed to illustrate the effect of the action of the tensor and laxator muscles of the tym- panic membrane in connection with their relation to the axis of rotation of the malleus. «, a', the malleus, b, the incus seen behind it; c, the stapes ; m, m', the inner part of the meatus externus closed by the tym- panic membrane ; g, processus gracilis ; the line t, in- dicates the direction and position of the tendon of the tensor tympani pulling the lower part of the malleus inwards, the line I, that of the laxator tympani pulling inwards the upper half of the malleus so as to force the handle outwards. Actions.—The malleus and incus move together round an axis extending back- wards from the attachment of the processus gracilis of the malleus in the Grlase- Fig. 450.