NERVOUS TISSUE. 140 In the spinal ganglia of man the cells commonly appear to possess but a single process, which runs peripherally ; on the other hand, multipolar cells are occa- sionally found. The latter, according to Max Schultze, are also to be met with in the sympathetic ganglia (see fig. 93). OIF THE CEEEBRO-SPINAL NERVES. Construction. — These nerves are formed of the nerve-fibres already described, collected together and bound up in sheaths of connective tissue. A larger or smaller number of fibres inclosed in a tubular sheath form a slender round cord of no determinate size, usually named a funiculus; if a nerve be very small it may consist of but one such cord, but in larger nerves several funiculi are united together into one or more bundles, which, being wrapped up in a common membranous covering, constitute the nerve (fig. 97). Accordingly, in dissecting a nerve, we first come to an outward covering, formed of connective tissue, often so strong and dense that it might well be called fibrous. From this common sheath we trace larninge passing inwards between the larger' and smaller bundles of funiculi, and finally between the funiculi themselves, connecting them together as well as con- ducting and supporting the fine blood-vessels which are distributed to the nerve. But, besides the interposed areolar tissue which connects these smallest cords, each funiculus has a special sheath of its own, as will be im- mediately noticed. The common sheath and its subdivisions consist^ of connective tissue, presenting the usual white and yellow constituent fibres of that texture, the latter being present in considerable proportion : frequently also a little fat is to be found. The special sheaths of the funiculi, on the other hand, appear to be formed essentially of a fine trans- parent membrane, which may without difficulty be stripped off, in form of a tube, from the little bundle of nerve-fibres of which the funiculus consists. When examined with a high power of the micro- scope, this membrane presents the aspect of a thin transparent film, which in some parts appears to be quite simple and homogeneous, but is more generally marked with extremely fine reticulated fibres. Cor- puscles resembling elongated cell-nuclei may be seen upon it when acetic acid is applied, and by treatment with nitrate of silver it may be shown that the film above mentioned is not in reality simple, but is made up of two, three, or more excessively delicate lamellae, on the surface of which an epithelioid layer of extremely fine flattened cells, to which the nuclei above mentioned belong, may occasionally be observed. The fine reticulated fibres seen on the lamellas are probably of an elastic nature; in some parts they appear merely as a series of granules, as if incompletely developed (seep. 71). Moreover, small plates of elastic substance are here and there met with in the lamellaa which also appear granulated near their edges (Ranvier). Fig. 97. Fig. 97.—Portion of the trunk of a Nerve CONSISTING OF MANY SMALLER CORDS OR FUNICULI WRAPPED UP IN A COMMON SHEATH. a, the nerve ; b, a single funiculus drawn out from the rest (frcm Sir C. Bell).