129 STRUCTURE OF MEDULLATED FIBRES. ance, from the absence of the comparatively tough membranous sheath. Although the name of axis- cylinder would seem to imply that it has actually a cylindrical figure, yet this is by no means certain ; and whether naturally cylindrical or not, it certainly often appears more or less flattened when subjected to examination. In the fresh state, and. under high powers of the microscope, the axis-cylinder fre- quently presents an appearance of longitudinal striation, indicating a fibrillar structure (see fig. 89, p. 134) ; indeed both at the origin and termination of a nerve it may commonly be seen to separate into excessively fine filaments or fibrils. These, the "primitive fibrilla of Max Schultze, are regarded, with the axis-cylinder, which they mainly compose, as the essential part of the nerve : at all events, it frequently happens that these form the only por- tion of the nerve that remains at the peripheral extremity. Minute varicosities are commonly found on them (fig. 89, t), probably the result of post- mortem change. These are not to be confounded with the varicosities to be immediately mentioned as being frequently met with in the medullary sheath. Cross sections of the spinal cord, or of any nerve trunk, which have been stained with carmine and subsequently mounted in balsam or dammar varnish, exhibit the sections of the axis-cylinders as deeply stained dots in or near the centre of the medullated fibres. Nodes of Ranvier.—It has been shown by Ranvier,* that there constantly occur in peripheral medullated nerve-fibres breaks in the continuity of the white substance, which succeed one another at regular intervals along the course of the nerves ; and give the fibres the appearance of being con- stricted at these places. The breaks or nodes, as they may conveniently be termed, divide the fibre into a series of segments of nearly equal length. The segmentation is readily made apparent by the action of a solution of osmic acid, which leaves the nodes (fig. 82, r, r) almost colourless, while the medullary sheath, or white substance of Schwann, becomes stained of an inky black colour. In such preparations also the primitive sheath of the fibre often becomes visible, and within this, between it and the white substance, a clear oval nucleus (c), with a Fig. 82.—Portions of two Nerve-Fibres Stained with Osmic Acid. 425 Diameters. r, r. Nodes of Ranvier, with axis-cylinder passing across, a, Primitive sheath of the nerve, c, Opposite the middle of the segment indicates the nucleus and protoplasm lying between the primitive sheath, and the medullary sheath here stained black. In a the nodes are wider, and the intersegmental substance more apparent than in b. (From a drawing by Mr. J. E. Neale). * Comptes Rendus, 1871 ; and Arch, de Physiologie, 1872.