742 DEVELOPMENT OF THE LIMBS. In the higher animals the pneumo-gastric nerve shows no close relation to the clefts, but in branchiate vertebrates it is continued past the gills, and sends forked branches to the gill arches in front and behind each of the clefts. 3. ORIGIN AND FORMATION OF THE LIMBS. The close connection of the limb-arches with certain vertebral seg- ments of the trunk has been previously referred to in the morpholo- gical remarks, given under the description of the bones and muscles in the first volume ; and although the vertebral homology of the parts of the limb proper is not so apparent, at least in the proximal seg- ments, yet in the quinquifid division of the more remote parts, in the preaxial and postaxial arrangement of these divisions, and in their relation to the nerves and some other circumstances, we can scarcely fail to perceive some very near relationship between the structure of the limb as a whole, and a certain number of the vertebral segments of the trunk. Fig. 541.—Human Embryo of about four weeks (from Kolliker, after A. Thomson), f /, the anterior limb rising as a semi- circular plate from the lateral ridge. (The figure is elsewhere described.) The limbs do not exist from the earliest time of the forma- tion of the cranio-vertebral part of the trunk, but only begin to be formed when the development of the axial part of the body has made some advance, as in the first half of the fourth day of incubation in the chick, and at the commencement of the fourth week in the human embryo. They first make their appearance as two pairs of buds from the side of the vertebral part of the trunk, in the form of flattish lateral elevations with curved free margins projecting from the exterior of the body, outside the thickened ridge (sometimes called the Wolffian ridge) where the division of the mesoblast into somatopleure and splanchnopleure take place, and near the outer margins of the muscular plates. The anterior pair of limbs appears earlier than the posterior, and for a long- time is always more advanced in the development of its parts. The place of formation of the anterior and posterior limbs does not vary to any great extent throughout the vertebrate animals,—and this fact may be looked upon as one of the most marked features of vertebrate organisation. The thickened plate which forms the commencing limb, by its in- creased growth, projects still more from the side, so as to take the form of a flattened lappet with a semicircular free margin ; presenting then two surfaces which may be named dorsal and ventral with refer- ence to their correspondence to the like surfaces of the trunk, constituting respectively the primitive extensor and flexor surfaces of the limb ; while the anterior margin of the semicircular lappet corresponds to the preaxial and the posterior margin to the postaxial borders of the future limbs. Fig. 541.