NUTRITION OF THE TEXTURES. 15 frequently the case with the corpuscles of connective tissue, and as is seen in the process of development of blood-vessels and nerves. Intercellular substance.—Of the matter which lies between cells —-the intercellular substance—and its relation to them, it may be observed that sometimes it is in very small quantity, and seems merely to cement the cells together, as in epithelium ; at other times it is more abundant, and forms a sort of matrix, or ground substance, in which the cells are embedded, as in cartilage. It is homogeneous, translucent, and firm in most cartilages, and pervaded by fibres in yellow cartilage. In connective tissue it consists of fibres, with soft interstitial matter, which is scanty in the denser varieties, but abundant in the lax tissue of the umbilical cord ; in bone the intercellular sub- stance is calcified and mostly fibrous. As to the production of the intercellular substance, there can be little doubt that in cartilage it is derived from the cells. Formed as capsules round the cells by excre- tion from their surface, or by conversion of their proper substance, and being blended into a uniform mass, it accumulates while the cells multiply, and while fresh material is supplied to them from the blood, which they convert into chondrinous substance. The source of the intercellular substance is not, in every instance, so apparent, but it may be presumed that the cells have some influence in its nutrition and maintenance. From what has been said it will be obvious that cells play an important part in the growth of textures, and probably in nutrition. The former pro- cess is usually accompanied by a great multiplication of cells, the peculiar constituent of which—the protoplasm—seems to be specially endowed with the faculty of propagation by division, and of increase by appropriating and con- verting new matter. It is conceivable that in this way it may serve for the extension of growing tissue and the development of structural elements from the crude materials of growth. Again, in the nutrition of a mass of tissue the crude material may undergo preparation by the cells that lie in the interstices of the structure. The existence of this protoplasmic germinative substance is very general, perhaps indeed universal, in the animal and vegetable kingdoms. But whilst in the great majority of organic beings it assumes the form of a nucleated cell (protoplast, or monoplast), as the first condition of their organised structure, in simpler modes of life and organisation it is not subject to the same limitation of form and mass. In the mycetozoa (myxorrvycetes), a curious tribe, heretofore mostly reckoned among the fungi, but standing as it were on the debateable ground between the animal and vegetable kingdoms, the protoplasm is extended into reticular masses, or irregularly anastomosing trains (jjlasmodia), spread over the surface of bark and other bodies to which it parasitically clings ; whilst in vibrios and some other infusorial animalcules of the simplest kind, it appears as fine molecular particles ; but it is most probably derived from parents in all instances, however minute and apparently insignificant these may be. The intercellular or ground substance, possesses hi a high degree the property of combining with and reducing the salts of silver when previously impregnated with them and exposed to the light. This method of staining, which was intro- duced by His and von Recklinghausen, has furnished us with a ready means of determining the position and form of delicate cellular elements in a tissue, since these, remaining unstained by the reagent, stand out white upon the dark ground : or in the case of an epithelioid tissue, appear as white polygonal areas bounded by fine dark lines (compare figs. 108 and 109, pp. 166, 167).