208 MUCOUS MEMBRANES. of both is very different in different parts. In some situations, as in the gullet, windpipe, bladder, and vagina, the filamentous connective tissue is abundant, and extends throughout the whole thickness of the fibro- vascular layer, forming a continuous and tolerably compact web, and rendering the mucous membrane of those parts comparatively stout and tough. In the stomach and intestines, on the other hand, where the membrane is more complex, and at the same time weaker in structure, the elastic fibres are wanting and the white connective tissue is in small proportion ; its principal bundles follow and support the blood-vessels, deserting, however, their finer and finest branches which lie next the basement-membrane ; and accordingly there exists, for some depth below this membrane, a stratum of the corium in which very few if any filaments of the common areolar tissue are seen. In this stratum of the gastro-enteric mucous membrane, the tubular glands with their lining epithelium are set, and between and around them the numerous sanguiferous capillaries and lymphatic vessels are distributed ; but the substance of the membrane in which these parts lie is constructed of retiform connective tissue, which is formed of ramified and reticularly connected corpuscles, with or without nuclei persistent at the points whence the branches divaricate ; and in the meshes of this tissue is contained a profusion of granular corpuscles, like those in the lymphatic* glands. This structure (fig. 137 and 138 d), which prevails in the mucous membrane of the stomach and intestines, both large and small, as well as in some other parts, is named lymphoid tissue from its resemblance to the interior tissue of the lymphatic glands, and of other bodies belonging to or supposed to belong to the lym- phatic system, and especially those known as the solitary and agminated glands of the alimentary mucous mem- brane. The tissue forming the last- named bodies, indeed, is often con- tinuous with the lymphoid tissue in their vicinity. The deepest layer of the mucous membrane is formed usually by non- striated muscular tissue, and is named muscularis mucosa. This lies next to the submucous tissue, and consists of bundles running in many parts both longitudinally and circularly, in others in one of these directions only. Pro- longations from it pass up between the glands to be distributed in the villi. PapillsB and villi.—The free sur- face of the mucous membranes is in some parts plain, but in others is beset with little eminences named papillae and villi. The papillce are best seen on the tongue ; they are small pro- cesses of the corium, mostly of a conical or cylindrical figure, containing blood-vessels and nerves, and covered with epithelium. Some are small Fig. 138. Fig. 138.—Lymphoid or Retiform Tissue op the Intestinal Mucous Membrane of the Sheep (from Frey). Magnified 400 Diameters. Cross section of a small fragment of the mucous membrane, including one entire crypt of Lieberkulm and parts of several others : a, cavity of the tubular glands or crypts ; b, one of the lining epithelial cells ; c, the lymphoid or reti- form spaces, of which some are empty, and others occupied by lymph-cells as at d.