J 52 CONNECTIVE TISSUE. doubted, that in both the coloured and white races, the colouring matter of the skin is the same in its essential nature as that of the choroid. In Albino individuals, both negro and European, in whom the black matter of the choroid is wanting, the cuticle and the hair are colourless also. In some situations the pigment is met with in enlarged and irregularly branched corpuscles which belong to the connective tissue. Such rami- fied cells are very common in many animals. In the human body cells of this description are found in the dark tissue on the outer surface of the choroid coat, lamina fusca (fig. 27, a a), and on the pia mater covering the upper part of the spinal cord. The condition of the pigment in the hairs will be afterwards noticed. When the cuticle of the negro is removed by means of a blister, it is renewed again of its original dark hue ; but if the skin be destroyed to any considerable depth, as by a severe burn, the resulting scar remains long white, though it at length acquires a dark colour. Pig. 27.—Ramified Cells, from the tissue of the Choroid Coat of the Eye ; magnified 350 diameters (Kolliker). a, cells with pigment; b, colourless fusiform cells. Composition.—Examined chemically, the black matter is found to be in- soluble in cold and hot water, alcohol, ether, fixed and volatile oils, acetic and diluted mineral acids. The pigment of the bullock's eye, when purified by boiling in alcohol and ether, was found by Scherer to consist of 58*672 carbon, 5*962 hydrogen, 13*768 nitrogen, and 21*598 oxygen ; its proportion of carbon is thus rery large. Preceding chemists had obtained from its ashes oxide of iron, chloride of sodium, lime, and phosphate of lime. Uses.—In the eye the black matter seems obviously intended to absorb re- dundant light, and accordingly its absence in Albinos is attended with a difficulty of bearing a light of considerable brightness. Its uses in other situations are not so apparent. The pigment of the cuticle, it has been supposed, may screen the subjacent cutis from the pungency of the sun's rays, but in many animals the pigment is not only employed to variegate the surface of the body, but attaches itself to deep-seated parts. Thus, in the frog the branches and twigs of the blood-vessels are speckled over with it, and in many fish it imparts a black colour to the peritoneum and other internal membranes. CONNECTIVE TISSUE. This substance consists of fibres of two kinds, more or less amorphous matter, and peculiar corpuscles. By means of its fibres it serves in the animal body as a bond of connection of different parts; also as a covering or investment to different organs, not only protecting them outwardly, but, in many cases entering into their structure and con- necting and supporting their component parts. The corpuscles, on the other hand, are destined for other than mechanical purposes; they appear to be essentially concerned in the nutrition and reparation of tissues. Three principal modifications or varieties of connective tissue have long been recognised, consisting of the same structural elements, but in widely different proportions, and thereby exhibiting a difference in their grosser or more obvious characters and physical properties. They are