VOL. II. K SPECIAL ANATOMY OF THE VISCERA. THE THORACIC VISCERA. The greater part of the thorax is occupied by the lungs, each of which is invested by a serous membrane, the pleura. The heart, enclosed by a membranous covering, the pericardium, is situate between the lungs in the middle of a space bounded laterally by the right and left pleurae, and known as the mediastinal space, the septum formed by the union of the two pleurae being termed the mediastinum. The term anterior mediastinum is given to the part of this septum in front of the heart and pericardium, and posterior mediastinum to the part behind, while that portion which encloses the pericardium is sometimes distinguished as the middle mediastinum. The anterior mediastinum (fig. 163, 2), which is of no great depth, is situate in front of the pericardium, between it and the sternum. At its superior part the two layers of pleurae separate some- what to enclose the vestiges of the thymus gland; behind the second piece of the sternum they are in contact, but below this the left pleura recedes from its fellow towards the left side, leaving an angular space of some breadth. The triangularis sterni muscle bounds this space in front. The posterior mediastinum, stretching from the pericardium to the bodies of the vertebrae, encloses between its layers the lower part of the windpipe and gullet (fig. 163 m) the thoracic duct (d), the descending- aorta (a), the azygos vein (v.a), and the pneumogastric nerves (p.n)9 together with some lymphatic glands. THE PERICARDIUM. This membranous sac, in which the heart is contained, is of a some- what conical shape, its base resting on the diaphragm, whilst the upper narrower part surrounds the great vessels as far as their first divi- sions. It consists of two layers, one external and fibrous, the other internal and serous. The fibrous layer is a dense, unyielding membrane, consisting of fibres which interlace in every direction. At the base of the pericar- dium this fibrous layer is attached to the upper surface of the dia- phragm (fig. 164 d), partly to the central tendon, partly to the adjoining muscular surface, especially on the left side. Over a small space near the median line the fibrous structures are continuous, and the connection very firm; elsewhere the attachment is more lax, and is effected mainly by areolar tissue. Above, where the pericardium embraces the large blood-vessels, the fibrous layer is continued for some.