60 7 THE NASAL FOSSiE This cartilage is the persistent anterior extremity of the primordial cranium. In young subjects it is prolonged back to the body of the pre-sphenoid bone ; and in many adults an irregular thin band remains between the vomer and the central plate of the ethmoid. NASAL FOSSiE. The nasal fossaa, and the various openings into them, with the pos- terior nares, have been previously described as they exist in the skeleton, and the greater part of that description is also applicable generally to the nose in a recent state ; but it is proper to mention certain dif- ferences in the form and dimension of parts, which depend on the arrangement of the lining membrane, viz.— Throughout the whole of the nasal fossae it is to be observed that— Firstly, owing to the thickness of the membrane in question, (which not only lines the walls of the fossas, but covers the spongy bones on both sides,) the nasal cavity is much narrower in the recent state. Secondly, in consequence of the prolongations of membrane on their free margins, the turbinate bones, and more particularly the lower pair, appear in the recent state to be both more prominent, and longer in the direction, from before backwards, than in the dried skull. Thirdly, by the arrangement of the mucous membrane around and over the orifices which open into the nasal fossas, some of the foramina in the bones are. narrowed, and others completely closed. Fig. 482. Fig. 482.—Transverse Vertical Section of the Nasal Fossae seen from behind (Arnold). | 1, part of the frontal bone ; 2, crista galli ; 3, perpendicular plate of the ethmoid ; between 4 and 4, the ethmoid cells ; 5, right middle spongy bone ; 6, left lower spongy bone ; 7, vomer ; 8, malar bone; 9, maxillary sinus; 10, its opening into the middle meatus. In the individual parts of the nasal fossas the following particulars are to be noticed. In the upper meatus, the small orifice which leads into the posterior ethmoidal cells is lined by a prolongation of the thin mucous membrane which continues