441 THE SCROTUM. wall. It extends from the deep to the superficial abdominal ring, and is about an inch and a half in length. In the upper part of this course, the cord has placed behind it the fascia transversalis, and is covered in front by the lower fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles ; lower down it lies in front of the conjoined tendon of these muscles, the fibres of which have arched inwards over it, and its cre- masteric covering is in contact anteriorly with the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle. The inguinal canal is therefore said to be bounded posteriorly by the fascia transversalis above and the conjoined tendon below, and anteriorly by fibres of the transversalis and internal oblique muscles above, and the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle below ; while its floor is formed by the curving backwards of Poupart's ligament, and its roof by the apposition of the layers of the abdominal wall and the arched fibres of the internal oblique muscle. As it enters the inguinal canal, the cord receives a covering from the infundibuliform fascia, a thin layer continuous with the fascia transversalis, and prolonged down from the margin of the deep abdo- minal ring ; within the canal it receives a covering from the cremaster muscle and its layer of fascia; and as it emerges from the canal there is added, superficially to this, the intercolumnar fascia prolonged from the margin of the superficial abdominal ring. The scrotum.—The scrotum forms a purse-like investment for the testes and part of the spermatic cords. Its condition is liable to some variations according to the state of the health and other cir- cumstances : thus it is short and corrugated in robust persons and under the effects of cold, but becomes loose and pendulous in persons of weak constitution, and under the relaxing influence of heat. A superficial division into two lateral halves is marked by a slight median ridge, named the raphe, extending forwards to the under side of the penis, and backwards along the perinaeum to the margin of the anus. The coverings of the cord and testis in the scrotum may be enume- rated from without inwards as follows, viz., the sic in, superficial fascia and dartos tissue, the intercolumnar fascia, the cremaster muscle and fascia, and the infundibuliform fascia, which is united to the cord by a layer of loose areolar tissue ; lastly, the special serous membrane of the testicle, named the tunica vaginalis, which forms a close sac, of which one part lines the scrotum and the other closely envelopes the testicle. 1. The skin of the scrotum is very thin, and is of a darker colour than elsewhere; it is generally thrown into ruga? or folds, which are more or less distinct according to the circumstances already mentioned. It is furnished with sebaceous follicles, the secretion from which has a peculiar odour, and it is covered over with thinly scattered crisp and flattened hairs, the bulbs of which may be seen or felt through the skin when the scrotum is stretched. The superficial blood-vessels are also readily distinguished through this thin integument. 2. Immediately beneath "the skin of the scrotum there is found a thin layer of a peculiar loose reddish-brown tissue, endowed with con- tractility, and named the dartos tunic. This subcutaneous layer is continuous with the superficial fascia of the groin, perineum, and inner side of the thighs, but assumes a different structure, and is entirely free from fat. The dartoid tissue is more abundant on the fore part