196 SEROUS MEMBRANES. over the trabecule ; covering these, like the walls of the commencing lymph-lacunaa elsewhere, with a layer of flattened cells. It is not unreasonable to presume that, in the proper glandular substance, there is a continual production of lymph-corpuscles, most probably by fissiparous multi- plication, which pass into the lymph-sinus, and that fresh corpuscles are thus added to the lymph as it passes through a gland ; and this view is supported by the fact, that the corpuscles are found to be more abundant in the lymph or chyle after it has passed through the glands. It has been alleged, moreover, that the lymph, after passing the glands, is richer in fibrin, and therefore coagulates more firmly. In any case, it is plain that the numerous blood-capillaries distri- buted in a gland must bring- the blood into near relation with the elements of the lymph ; and the latter fluid, as it must move very slowly through the rela- tively wide space within the gland, is thus placed in a most favourable condition for some not improbable interchange of material with the blood. SEROUS MEMBRANES. The serous membranes are so named from the apparent nature of the fluid with which their surface is moistened. They line cavities of the body which have no outlet, and the chief examples of them are, the peritoneum, the largest of all, lining the cavity of the abdomen ; the two pleurae and pericardium in the chest; the arachnoid membrane in the cranium and vertebral canal; and the tunica vaginalis surrounding each of the testicles within the scrotum. Form and arrangement.—In all these cases the serous membrane has the form of a closed sac, one part of which is applied to the walls of the cavity which it lines, the parietal portion ; whilst the other is re- flected over the surface of the organ or organs contained in the cavity, and is therefore named the reflected or visceral portion of the membrane. Hence the viscera in such cavities are not contained within the sac of the serous membrane, but are really placed behind or outside of it; merely pushing inwards, as it were, the part of the membrane which immediately covers them, some organs receiving in this way a complete, and others but a partial and sometimes very scanty investment. In passing from one part to another, the membrane frequently forms folds which in general receive the appellation of ligaments, as, for example, the folds of peritoneum passing between the liver and the parietes of the abdomen, but which are sometimes designated by special names, as in the instances of the mesentery, meso-colon, and omentum. The peritoneum, in the female sex, is an exception to the rule that serous membranes are perfectly closed sacs, inasmuch as it has two openings by which the Fallopian tubes communicate with its cavity. A serous membrane sometimes lines a fibrous membrane, as where the arachnoid lines the dura mater, or where the serous layer of the peri- cardium adheres to its outer or fibrous part. Such a combination is often named a ftbro-serous membrane. The inner surface of a serous membrane is free, smooth, and polished; and, as would occur with an empty bladder, the inner surface of one part of the sac is applied to the corresponding surface of some other part; a small quantity of fluid, usually not more than merely moistens the contiguous surfaces, being interposed. The parts situated in a cavity lined by serous membrane can thus glide easily against its