736 DEVELOPMENT OF THE HEAD. elaborate investigation of the whole subject (Jenaische Zeitschr., vol. vi., 1871), who traced most carefully the nervous and diverticular elements in their develop- ment, and their union with mesoblastic elements in the formation of the gland. Goette next ascertained that the diverticulum from below is connected with the buccal cavity and epiblast, and not with the pharynx and hypoblast, as was pre- viously supposed (Archiv fur Mikroscop. Anat., vol. ix., p. 397). The observa- tions of Mihalkovics on Mammals complete the history of this point in develop- ment, and will be mainly employed in the following description. The formation of this body may be shortly described as consisting in the meet- ing and combination of two outgrowths from very different fundamental parts ; one cerebral or medullary from above, and the other corneous or epiblastic (glandu- lar), from below, in a recess of the cranial basis which afterwards becomes the pituitary fossa (fig. 535, B, tf,inj). The cerebral outgrowth, the posterior of the two parts, takes place by the formation of a pointed projection downwards of a portion of the lower medullary wall of the vesicle of the third ventricle, and its firm adhesion to the base of the cranium. This is the commencement of the infundibulum. Meanwhile, a little in front of the same place, there is projected upwards from below a part of the basilar surface of the cranium, so as to form a deep recess lined by the corneous layer from the back and upper part of the future mouth. This recess is the commencement of the hypophysis or pituitary body in its glandular portion, which is not, as has been supposed, a recess from the pharynx, seeing that it is in front of the opening which is afterwards formed for the fauces. The depressed and sharpened out anterior part of the notochord is directed downwards and forwards, while the sac of the hypophysis is carried upwards and backwards, and, according to Mihalkovics, the attenuated end of the chorda soon disappears from between the infundibulum and the hypophysis, previous to the occurrence of the intimate union which follows between these two bodies. The anterior extremity of the chorda, therefore, is lost in the floor of the pituitary fossa, and the swollen or dilated portion of the chorda which succeeds, and which comes then to form the apparent termination, occupies the interval between the basi-occipital and the basi-sphenoidal cartilages. The chorda traced back from this point, presents another swelling at the junction of the basi-occipital cartilage with that of the odontoid process, into which last it passes. The third swelling of the chorda lies between the odontoid cartilage, and that of the body of the axis vertebra. Fig. 536.—Cranium and Face of the Human Embryo seen from before (from Ecker). A, from an embryo of about three weeks : 1, anterior cerebral vesicles and cerebral hemispheres; 2, interbrain ; 3, middle or fronto-nasal process ; 4, superior maxillary- plate ; 5, the eye ; 6, inferior maxillary or mandibular plate (first postoral) ; 7, second plate; 8, third ; 9, fourth, and behind each of these four plates their respective pharyn- geal clefts. B, from an embryo of five weeks : 1, 2, 3, and 5, the same as in A ; 4, the external nasal or lateral frontal pro- cess ; 6, the superior maxillary plate ; 7, the mandibular ; x , the tongue ; 8, the first pharyngeal cleft, which becomes the meatus auditorius externus. The base of the skull, therefore, consists of two parts, one the posterior, in which the chorda is imbedded, and corresponding to the future basi-occipital and basi-sphenoidal parts, the other in front of this, into which the chorda does not penetrate, the spheno-ethmoidal, and which, according to the researches of Parker and Gegenbaur, is of a later formation, and is more immediately related to the development of the face.