FIBEOTJS TISSUE. 65 from this into the interstice between each two contiguous bundles : this arrangement will be evident on study of the transverse section (fig. 38). On the flat surface of the cells lines are commonly seen running in a longitudinal direction (fig. 37): these are not to be regarded as due either to creases in the cells, or to the presence of an " elastic stripe " as conceived by Boll, but are merely the optical sections of such lamellar extensions as are directed either towards or away from the observer.* At their edges the lamellae gradually fade off as they pass between the tendon-bundles : the latter are not completely enclosed by the cells, as was at first supposed by Ranvier, to whom the merit of the dis- covery of these flattened cellular elements belongs, f Treatment with nitrate of silver solu- tion brings into view corresponding spaces (fig. 39), which commonly appear somewhat larger than the cells them- selves, with which, however, in general form and arrangement they in the main coincide. Fig. 39. Fig. 39.—Cell Spaces of Tendon op Mouse's Tail, brought into view by treatment with Nitrate op Silver. 175 diameters. The fibrous and areolar tissues thus agreeing in their ultimate structure, it is not to be wondered at that sometimes the limits between the two should be but ill-defined, and that the one should pass by inconspicuous gradations into the other. Instances of such a transition may be seen in many of the fascia?: these at certain parts consist of dense areolar tissue, but on being traced farther are seen gradually to take on the fibrous character ; and fasciae, which in one body consist of areolar tissue, may be decidedly fibrous in another. In chemical constitution also the fibrous tissue is similar to the areolar. It contains about two-thirds of its weight of water; it becomes transparent and hard, when dried, but readily imbibes water * From an article received since the above was in type, it would appear that Eanvier has also, from a further study of the subject, arrived at a similar conclusion (Arch, de Phys. No. 2, 1874). f Arch, de Physiologie, 1869. VOL. II. F Fig. 38. Fig. 38.—Transverse Section of Tendon op Mouse's Tail stained avith Logwood. 175 diameters. The flattened processes of the tendon-cells (which are stained deeply by logwood) appear in sec- tion as lines, frequently coming off at right angles from the body of the cell. The bundles of fibres are not represented ; they are very irregular, and but incompletely separated by the cell-processes.