222 THE SKIN. Fig. 149. transparent homogeneous membrane, marked transversely on its inner surface with some raised lines, and not reaching so high as the mouth of the follicle ; it corresponds with the membrana propria or basement membrane of analogous structures, and, like that, probably consists of flattened cells. Between the two is a layer extending from the bottom •of the follicle as high as the entrance of the sebaceous glands, com- posed of an indistinctly fibrous matrix, tearing transversely, and of transversely disposed connective tissue corpuscles, with oblong nuclei, {fig. 149, c). This layer, which seems to be a form of connective tissue, receives capillary blood-vessels. The epidermic coat (fig. 149, 2) of the follicle adheres closely to the root of the hair, and commonly separates, in great part, from the follicle and abides by the hair when the latter is pulled out; hence it is some- times named the " root-sheath." It consists of an outer, softer, and more opaque stratum (fig. 148, c, c ; 149, e), next to the dermic coat of the follicle, and an internal more transparent layer (fig. 148, h, b ; 149, /g) next to the hair. The former, named also the outer root-sheath, and by much the thicker of the two, corre- sponds with the mucous or Malpighian layer of the epidermis in general, and contains soft growing cells, including pigment granules in the coloured races, which at the lower part form a much thinner stratum and pass continuously into those of the hair-knob ; the internal layer or inner root-sheath, represents the super- ficial or horny layer of the epidermis ac- cording to some authorities ; but others maintain that it is not continuous with that part of the skin, but ceases abruptly a little below the orifices of the sebaceous ducts. Lining the root-sheath internally is a layer of imbricated downwardly pro- jecting scales, the cuticle of the root-sheath (fig. 149, h), which is applied to the cortical scaly cuticle of the hair proper, to whose upwardly directed scales it fits like a mould. Its scales, as well as those of the hair-cuticle, pass, at the bottom of the fol- licle, into the round cells of the hair-knob. The inner root-sheath itself consists of two layers, which towards the bottom of the fol- licle become blended into one (fig. 149,/#). The innermost (that next the cuticula) is known as Huxley's layer; it consists of flattened polygonal nucleated cells, two or even three deep. The outermost is com- posed of oblong, somewhat flattened cells without nuclei, in which fissures and holes are liable to occur from accidental laceration, so as to give it the aspect of a perforated or fenestrated membrane. At the lower part both layers pass into a single layer of large polygonal nucleated cells without open- ings between them. Fig. 149. — Section of Hair Follicle (Biesiadecki). 1, Dermic coat of follicle ; 2, epidermic coat or root-sheath ; a, Outer layer of dermic coat, with blood-vessels, b, 5, cut across ; c, middle layer ; d, inner or hyaline layer ; e, outer root-sheath ; /, g, inner root-sheath ; h, cuticle of root-sheath ; I, hair.