CONTRACTILITY OF ARTERIES. 171 contractile movements. The nerves come chiefly from the sympathetic, but also from the cerebro-spinal system. They form plexuses round the larger arteries, and run along the smaller branches in form of fine bundles of fibres, which here and there twist round the vessel, and single nerve-fibres have been seen closely accompanying minute arteries. The fine branches destined for the artery penetrate to the middle coat, in which they are chiefly distributed. They lay aside their medullary sheath and form a plexus of pale fibres, the finest of which are without nuclei. Minute ganglia have been described by Beale and others as connected with the arteries, or even in the case of the larger ones, situated in the external coat. From these, fine nerves proceed to be distributed, chiefly in the form of plexuses, to the muscular tissue of the middle coat. Contractility. Besides the merely mechanical property of elasticity, arteries are endowed in a greater or less degree with vital contractility, by means of which they can narrow their calibre. This vital contractility, which has its seat in the plain muscular tissue of the middle coat, does not cause rapid con- tractions following in rhythmic succession like those of the heart; * its opera- tion is, on the contrary, slow, and the contraction produced is of long endurance. Its effect, or its tendency, is to contract the area of the arterial tube, and to offer a certain amount of resistance to the distending force of the blood ; and as the contracting vessel will shrink the more, the less the amount of fluid con- tained in it, the vital contractility would thus seem to adjust the capacity of the arterial system to the quantity and force of the blood passing through it, bracing up the vessels, as it were, and maintaining them in a constant state of tension. In producing this effect, it co-operates with the elasticity of the arterial tubes, but it can be shown that after that property has reached its limit of operation the vital contraction can go further in narrowing the artery. The vital or mus- cular contractility of the arteries, then, counteracts the distending force of the heart and seems to be in constant operation. Hence it is often named" tonicity," and so far justly; but at the same time, like the contractility of other muscular structures, it can, by the application of various stimuli, be artificially excited to more vivid action than is displayed in this natural tonic or balanced state ; and, on the other hand, it sometimes relaxes more than the habitual degree, and then the vessels, yielding to the distending force of the heart, become unusually dilated. Such a remission in their contractile force (taking place rather suddenly) is doubt- less the cause of the turgescence of the small vessels of the skin which occurs in blushing ; and the arteries of erectile organs are probably affected in the same manner, so as to permit an augmented flow of blood into the veins or venous cavities when erection begins. The vital contractility of small-sized arteries is easily demonstrated in the transparent parts of cold-blooded animals. If the point of a needle be two or three times drawn quickly across one of the little arteries in the web of a frog's foot placed under the microscope, the vessel will be seen slowly to contract, and the stream of blood passing through it becomes smaller and smaller, and, by a repetition of the process, may be made almost entirely to disappear. After per- sisting in this contracted state for some minutes, the vessel will gradually dilate again to its original size. The same effect may be produced by the application of ice-cold water, and also by electricity, especially the interrupted electric current. Moreover, if one of the small arteries in the mesentery of a frog or of a small warm-blooded animal, such as a mouse (Poiseuille), be compressed so as to take off the distending force of the blood from the part beyond the point where the pressure is applied, that part will diminish in calibre, at first no doubt from its * Arteries may, however, exhibit slow rhythmic contractions : this is especially marked in some of the lower animals, e. g. the rabbit, in the arteries of the ear of which it may readily be observed. It is probably dependent on the presence of minute ganglia in con- nection with the vessels.