Fig. 178.—View of the Fibbes op Fig. 178. 260 THE HEAET. may eventually be traced at one end to the tendinous structures at the base of the heart, and at the other to one of the papillary muscles of the left ventricle. The peculiar spiral concentration of the fibres of the heart at the apex is known as the vorteso or whorl, and is produced, as already described, by the twisting or interlocking- of the fibres in the interior as they pass to be con- tinuous with those on the exterior. It has been thought that a similar continuity was the rule at the base of the heart also, and that few if any of the bundles are attached to the tendinous rings. But although it is true that some bundles may turn round at the auriculo-ventricular openings, this is by no means general, and most of the muscular fasciculi must be described as being attached to the fibrous and fibro-cartilaginous structures at the base, either directly or through the medium of the chordae tendineae and segments of the valves. the Sheep's Heart, dissected at the Apex to show the "vortex " (Pettigrew). a, a, fibres entering the apex posteriorly at b ; c, c, fibres entering the apex anteriorly at d. In the middle of the thickness of the ventricular wall the fibres are, as before said, annular and trans- verse (fig. 179, 4, 4'): but, as Ludwig showed, they pass by the most gradual transition into the diagonal ones nearer the surfaces, so that any separation into layers which may be effected (with the exception of the superficial stratum previously described) must be looked upon as in a great degree artificial. Even by those anatomists who contend for the existence of definite strata their number has been very differently stated. Wolff * conceived that five layers might be made out. Pettigrew f has described as many as seven in the wall of each ven- tricle, of which the fourth occupies the middle of the thickness of the ven- tricular wall ; the third is continuous above and below with the fifth ; the second with the sixth ; and the first, or most external, with the seventh, or most internal ; the outer layers turning in at the whorl and at the margins of the auriculo-ventri- cular openings respectively, but without being attached to the tendinous struc- tures at all. It will be observed that Pettigrew's description differs materially from that given in the text, which, although agreeing in many points with the observations of Ludwig, Winckler, and Sibson,J is mainly founded on an entirely fresh inves- tigation of the subject, undertaken with the co-operation of Mr. F. J. Davies, of University College. Interstitial structures.—The interstices between the closely reti- culating muscular fibres are filled by connective tissue, with numerous blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves. The muscular substance is supplied with blood by the coronary arteries, the origin and course of which, as well as of the coronary vein, are elsewhere described. The smaller branches penetrate into every part of the muscular substance. The lymphatics (which are found in great number beneath both the pericardium and endocardium), are also, according to Schweigger-Seidel, * C. F. Wolff, De ordine Fibrarura Musculariurn Cordis ; Act. Acad. Petropol. 1780 —1792. f Phil. Trans. 1864. J Ludwig, in Zeitschrift fur rationelle Medizin, 1849 ; and Midler's Archiv. Winckler, in Archiv fiir Anatomie und Physiologie, 1865. Sibson, Medical Anatomy, 1869.