OSSIFICATION IN CARTILAGE. 07 bone itself, but must not be confounded with fibres which may pre-exist in the membranous tissue in which the bone is growing. The granular corpuscles or cells everywhere cover, in a dense layer, the osteogenic substance, and lie in its meshes; most probably they yield or excrete that substance ; hence the name " osteoblasts" has been assigned to them. But some of the granular cells are involved in the ossifying matrix, and eventually inclosed in lacume. Single cells may accordingly be seen partially sunk in the recent osteogenic deposit, which then gradu- ally grows over them and buries them in its substance ; and the cavity in which the corpuscle is thus enclosed becomes a lacuna. With regard to the formation of the canaliculi, some observers state that, when- such a corpuscle is as yet but half sunk in the growing substance, processes may be seen passing from the imbedded side into fine clefts of the matrix, which close in around them and become the canaliculi; and that as the inclosure of the corpuscle is completed, canaliculi are in like manner formed in the rest of its circumference. It is also supposed that the canaliculi are afterwards extended by absorption, so as to anastomose with those of neighbouring lacunas. As the bone extends in circumference, it also increases in thickness ; the vacuities between the bony spicula become narrowed or disappear, and at a more advanced period the tabular bones of the cranium are tolerably compact towards the centre, although their edges are still formed of slender radiating processes. At this time also numerous furrows are grooved on the surface of the bone in a similar radiating manner, and towards the centre these are continued into complete tubes or canals in the older and denser part, which run in the same direction. The canals, as well as the grooves, which become converted into canals, contain blood-vessels supported by processes of the investing membrane, and are lined with osteoblasts, which deposit concentric layers of bone inside these channels; and, when thus surrounded with concentric laminae, these tubular cavities are in fact Haversian canals. It may here be observed that in earlier stages, such as that shown in fig. 51, vessels may be seen in the soft tissue, some twice or three times the size of a blood-capillary, others considerably more, but all with only a homogeneous coat with cells upon it here and there, and without a muscular layer. Ossification in cartilage.—It has already been stated that, in by far the greater number of bones, the primitive soft cellular matter of which they originally consist is very quickly succeeded by cartilage, in which the ossification begins. One of the long bones taken from a very small embryo, just before ossification has commenced in it, is observed to be distinctly cartilaginous. In the tibia of a sheep, for example, at a time when the whole embryo is not more than an inch and a quarter in length, we can plainly see that the substance consists of cartilage- cells imbedded in a pellucid matrix. These cells, which can scarcely be said to be collected into groups, are much larger in the middle part of the shaft where ossification afterwards commences, and there also they are mostly placed with their long diameter across the direction of the bone : towards the ends they are much smaller and closer together, and the cartilage there is less transparent. As it enlarges, the cartilage acquires firmer consistence ; it represents in figure the future bone, though of course much smaller in size, and it is surrounded with a VOL. II. h