PERIPHERAL DISTRIBUTION OF NERVES. 145 parietal or adherent layer of the arachnoid. The nerve, on escaping from the skull or spine, acquires its external, stout, fibrous sheath, which connects all its funiculi into a firm cord, and then, too, the nerve appears much thicker than before its exit. The dura mater accom- panies the nerves through the bony foramina, and becomes continuous with their external sheath and (at the cranial foramina) with the peri- cranium ; but the sheath does not long retain the densely fibrous character of the membrane with which it is thus connected at its com- mencement. The arrangement of the membranes on the roots of certain of the cranial nerves requires to be specially noticed. The numerous fasciculi of the olfactory nerve pass through their foramina almost immediately after springing from the olfactory bulb, and then also receive their neurilemma. The bulb itself, and the intracranial part of the nerve, which are to be regarded as being really a prolongation or lobe of the brain, are invested externally by the pia mater, but are not fasciculated. The arachnoid membrane passes over the furrow of the brain in which this part of the nerve lies, without affording it a special investment. The optic nerve becomes subdivided internally into longitudinal fasciculi by neurilemma a little way in front of the commissure : on passing through the optic foramen it receives a sheath of dura mater, which accompanies it as far as the eyeball. The acoustic nerve becomes fasciculated, receives its neurilemma, and acquires a firm structure on entering the meatus auditorius internus in the temporal bone, towards the bottom of which it presents one or more small gan- glionic swellings containing the characteristic cells. Up to this point it is destitute of neurilemma, and is of soft consistence, whence the name " portio mollis" applied to it. The larger root of the fifth pair acquires its neurilemma and its fasciculated character sooner at its circumference than in the centre, so that, in the round bunch of cords of which it consists, those placed more outwardly are longer than those within, and, when all are pulled away, the non-fascicular part of the nerve remains in form of a small conical eminence of comparatively soft nervous ■substance. Most of the nerves have ganglia connected with their roots. Thus, the spinal nerves have each a ganglion on the posterior of the two roots by which they arise ; and in like manner several of the cranial, viz., the fifth, seventh, glossopharyngeal, and pneumo-gastric, are furnished at their roots, or at least within a short distance of their origin, with ganglia which involve a greater or less number of their fibres, as de- scribed elsewhere in the special anatomy of these nerves. Termination, oe Peripheral Distribution, of Nerves.—It may be stated, generally, and apart from what may apply to special modes of termination, that, in approaching their final distribution, the fibres of nerves, medullated and non^medullated, commonly divide into branches (fig. 98); and the former, either before or after division, generally lose their medullary sheath, and consequently their dark borders, and take on the characters of pale fibres. The axis-cylinder participates in the division, and it might be said that the white fibres are represented in their further progress by the axis-cylinder and its ramifications ; still, the primitive sheath or membranous tube continues some way along these pale branches after the medullary sheath has ceased, but may finally too desert them. By repeated division the fibres become smaller and smaller; but whilst some of the resulting small fibres may be simple, many are really bundles of exquisitely fine pale fibrils, straight, VOL. II. L