NERVES OF THE CORNEA. 507 vessel, 5, leading from it; 6, other vessels ; 7, bundles of fibres of the sclerotic running equatorially, cut across ; 8, larger ones in the substance of the sclerotic ; 9, fine bundles cut across, at limit of cornea ; 10, point of origin of meridional bundles of ciliary muscle ; 11, blood-vessels in sclerotic and conjunctiva, cut across ; 12, section of one of the ciliary arteries. Vessels and nerves.—In a state of health the cornea is not provided with blood-vessels, except at the circumference, where they form very fine capillary loops and accompany the nerves. Neither are any lymphatic vessels discoverable, unless the channels in which the nerves run, and which are lined with flattened cells and in connection with the cell spaces, are to be taken as representing them. The nerves, on the other hand, are very numerous. Derived from the ciliary nerves, they enter the fore part of the sclerotic, and are from forty to forty-five in number (Waldeyer). Continued into the fibrous part of the cornea, they retain their dark outline for ^th to y^th of an inch, and then, becoming transparent, ramify and form a plexus through the laminated structure. From this primary plexus other nerves proceed to form a much finer and closer plexus—but of which the cords yet consist of several nerve-fibrils— at the surface of the cornea, immediately beneath the epithelium, and from this secondary or subepithelial plexus excessively fine, varicose, ultimate fibrils (fig. 404, ~b) pass among the epithelium cells, and form here a terminal network, the intra-epithelial plexus, which extends almost to the free surface (fig. 404, c, c). Fig. 404. Fig. 404.—Intra-epithelial Plexus of Cornea op Rabbit, stained by Chloride op Gold. Oblique view. 300 Diameters (Klein). a, part of subepithelial plexus ; b, b, tufts of fine varicose fibrils ; c, network of these amongst, d, the deeper epithelial cells. In addition to the nerves which are destined for the epithelium, others, for the proper substance of the cornea, come off from the primary plexuses, and, after uniting into one or more secondary plexuses, the cords of which are still composite, eventually form, in and among the laminae, a terminal network of ultimate fibrils, the meshes of which are much more open than those of the intra-epithelial network. An actual connection of the nerves with the corpuscles of the cornea has never been satisfactorily shown.