THE WOLFFIAN BODIES. 307 system as a whole has its foundation in the mesoblastic layer. In birds and mammals the duct, which is first formed, appears in its commence- ment as a solid cord in the upper part of a group of cells, projecting below the epiblast, in the interval between the protovertebral mass and Fig. 603.—Kidneys, Wolffian Bodies, Wolffian Fig. 603. AND MlTLLERIAN DUCTS OF A FcETAL BlRD. Magnified (after J. Miiller). a, kidney ; I, tubular part of Wolffian body ; c, the ovary ; d, suprarenal body ; e, ureter ; /, Wolf- fian duct; g, duct of Miiller. the united somatopleure and splanchno- pleure of the mesoblast, and thence called the intermediate cell mass (fig. 600, ung). This cord becomes hollow, and gradually changes its place by sinking downwards in the cellular mass in which it is imbedded, towards the pleuro-peritoneal cavity, while the tubular and glomerular structures of the Wolffian body are developed as diverti- cula from the duct in connection with the neighbouring cellular blastema. The intermediate cell-mass now forms a considerable projection to the outside of the mesentery, which occupies a median position (figs. 602 and 604), and the epithelium on its surface exhibits a considerable thickening in two places, first, along the inner side, where it becomes columnar, and forms an opaque whitish ridge, the germ epithe- lium, the seat of after formation of the primitive ovigerms ; and second, along the outer side in a line inside the seat of the Wolffian duct, where, by a process of grooved involution, there is gradually formed the duct named Miillerian, after its discoverer, Johannes Miiller. It is now fully ascertained that both the Wolffian and Miillerian ducts are constantly present in all embryoes of birds and mammals, whatever the sex they may be destined afterwards to assume ; but the respective ducts have a different sexual destination, for the duct of Miiller becomes converted into the oviduct of the female, while in the male the Wolffian duct forms the vas deferens, or main seminal duct of the testicle ; and while vestiges of the duct of Miiller are perceptible in the developed male, remains of the Wolffian duct are almost always present in the female in a manner afterwards to be described. The permanent kidneys of birds and mammals take their origin in connection with the Wolffian duct and formative substance deposited near the Wolffian bodies. Their first rudiments consist in a diver- ticulum from the upper or dorsal aspect of the Wolffian duct near its posterior extremity, which constitutes the commencement of the ureter; and from this the tubular and glandular parts of the kidney are formed by extension into the neighbouring mass of blastema at a period somewhat later than that of the development of the Wolffian body itself. The researches of Waldeyer and others have shown that the produc- tive glands of the generative organs in the two sexes, ovary and testis, arise from nearly the same part of the intermediate cell mass, but in