313 FORMATION OF THE TEETH. bone, run abundantly through the cement. In chemical composition it resembles bone, and contains 30 per cent, of animal matter. The cement is, according to some, extremely sensitive at the neck of the tooth, if it be exposed by retraction of the gum. This is probably due to the nerves of its periosteal covering. By its connection with the surrounding membranous structures it contributes to fix the tooth in the socket. It is the seat of the bony growths or exostoses sometimes found upon the teeth. FORMATION OF THE TEETH. A tooth is formed on the same fundamental type of development as a hair. In the latter case a process grows down from the Malpighian layer of the epidermis into the subjacent cutaneous corium, in which a depression is simultaneously produced for its reception. A papilla, soon becoming vascular, rises up from the bottom of the depression into the cellular mass, and the primitive tissue forming the wall of the recess is converted into the coats of a follicle. In the formation of a tooth there is in like manner a downgrowth from the Malpighian layer of the oral epithelium (which corresponds with the epidermis and is derived from the same embryonic layer). The cellular process is received into a recess of the subjacent mucous membrane. In this also a vascular papilla grows up from the bottom, and the simple wall of the cavity is differ- entiated into a vascular sac or follicle. The first recognized steps in the development of the teeth take place as early as the seventh week of intra-uterine life. At this time the oral epithelium becomes thickened along the border of the jaws, and its Malpighian layer grows down into a corresponding groove, which is formed to receive it in the soft embryonic tissue of which the jaw then consists. The groove, although filled and covered in by the epithelium, is still faintly indicated by a shallow superficial furrow. This down- growth of epithelium, which is named the " enamel-germ,;' forms the foundation of the special structures or organs which generate the enamel in the several teeth, and for the sake of distinction may be termed the common enamel-germ. The groove, as well as the changes subsequently occurring in it, was observed by F. Arnold and by Goodsir, who named it the " primitive dental groove," but neither of these observers appears to have noticed the contained epithelium (or at least to have recognized its importance), probably in conse- quence of its soft and friable substance having been accidentally wiped away. The common enamel-germ, simultaneously with the groove, next increases in depth, and, at the same time, its deeper portion inclines outwards, forming an angle with its more superficial part. It also swells out below, so that a transverse vertical section of it is club or flask- shaped. An increased development then takes place at particular points, corresponding in situation with the ten milk-teeth ; and the common enamel-germ thus becomes parted in its deeper portion, or extended by further growth, into as many distinct aggregations of cells, or special enamel-germs,—one for each tooth—of a club or flask-shapey connected by a narrowed neck with what remains of the common epithelial ingrowth (fig. 214, A, /). These tooth-germs, as they may now be called, are lodged each in its own recess, which at this time is merely a pit in the soft embryonic tissue, without the membranous