71 DEVELOPMENT OF CONNECTIVE TISSUE subsequently become fibrillated. The cell-processes, however, do not, it is believed, ever form single fibrils, but always smaller or larger bundles; in this there is a marked difference between the development of the white connective tissue and that of the elastic fibres, as will immediately be seen. The bundles of white fibres probably become en- larged by a further fibrillation of the part of the cells in contact with them, the cells at the same time themselves increasing in size and probably also in number. The above description of the development of the white connective tissue, which is principally founded upon the results of actual observation on the mammalian embryo and young animal, is substantially the same as that given by most recent observers who have investigated the subject,* and in many respects accords with the original description of Schwann. It is right, however, to state that a very different view is held by several distinguished authorities, according to whom the cells themselves have no direct share in the formation of the fibrils, which are believed to be developed as an independent deposit in the muco-albuminous matter which lies between the cells. "With regard to the formation of the elastic fibres, little is positively known, but it would appear that they also are formed from cells, probably of a different nature from those which generate the white con- nective tissue. The fibres appear to be formed of the processes of the cells which grow out and branch, becoming connected with processes from other cells. The conversion into elastic substance seems to occur first at the extremities of the processes and to proceed towards the body of the cell: it would appear probable that it is the surface layer of a fibre that is first changed, for elastic fibres (presumably not fully developed) are here and there met with which appear to present a tubular structure; for a precipitate may under some circumstances be produced in their interior. What becomes of the body of the cell is not very clear : however, it would seem that in some instances, at least, the connection of the elastic fibres with cell processes is retained even in the fully-developed tissue (Thin) : in the pure elastic ligaments, on the other hand, the cells are stated to disappear. The first appearance of the elastic fibres is described by Ranvier and others as occurring in the form of rows of granules or globules which subsequently run together. Such a mode of formation would explain the appearance of an in- distinct transverse striation which has sometimes been described in those fibres. As in the case of the white connective tissue, it has been held by many authorities that the elastic fibres are also formed by a deposit (although of a different nature) in the muco-albuminous fluid between the cells. In the formation of the special varieties of connective tissue, no fibres are developed, but either the cells disappear altogether, their place being occupied by muco-albuminous matter, as in the jelly-like connective tissue ; or this matter is developed in but very small amount, in which case the cells may either become flattened out, remaining co- herent at their edges, as in the homogeneous membranes, or, some of them becoming branched, and, intercommunicating by their processes, may form a reticulum within the meshes of which other cells are more or less closely packed, as in the retiform or adenoid tissue. * Max Schultze : Briicke (Obersteiner, and Kusnetzoff, Wiener Sitzb. lvi.); Strieker {Breslauer, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. v.) : Boll, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. vii.