420 THE URINARY BLADDER. and the vagina in the female ; and its smaller end, or summit, resting" against the lower part of the anterior wall of the abdomen. Imme- diately in front of the base is the thickened portion named the cervix, or neclc, which bounds the outlet of the bladder, and connects it below with the urethra. The long axis of the distended bladder is inclined obliquely upwards and forwards from the base to the summit, in a line directed from the coccyx to a point between the pubes and the umbilicus. In being gradually distended, the bladder curves slightly forwards, so that it becomes more convex behind than in front, and its upper end is by degrees turned more and more towards the front of the abdomen. Lastly, the bladder, when filled, appears slightly compressed from before backwards, so that its diameter in that direction is less than from side to side. In its ordinary state, the longest diameter in the male is from base to summit; but in the female its breadth is often greater than its height. The average capacity of the bladder is often stated to be greater in the female than in the male ; and, no doubt, instances of very large female bladders are not unfrequent, but these have pro- bably been the result of unusual distension : in the natural condition, according to Luschka and Henle, the female bladder is decidedly smaller than that of the male. Connections.—While freely movable in all other directions upon surrounding parts, the bladder is fixed below to the walls of the pelvis by the neck, and by fibrous bands given off from the recto-vesical fascia, named the true ligaments of the bladder. It is supported, moreover, by strong areolar connections with the rectum or vagina, according to the sex, in a slighter degree by the two ureters, the obliterated hypogastric arteries and the urachus, by numerous blood- vessels, and, lastly, by a partial covering of the peritoneum, which, in being reflected from this organ in different directions, forms duplica- tures, named the false ligaments of the bladder. The anterior surface is entirely destitute of peritoneum, and is in apposition with the triangular ligament of the urethra, the subpubic ligament, the symphysis and body of the pubes, and, if the organ be full, the lower part of the anterior wall of the abdomen. It is con- nected to these parts by loose areolar tissue, and to the back of the pubes by two strong bands of the vesical fascia, named the anterior true ligaments. This surface of the bladder may be punctured above the pubes without wounding the peritoneum. The posterior surface is entirely free, and covered everywhere by the peritoneum, which in the male is prolonged also for a short distance upon the base of the bladder. In the male, this surface is in contact with the rectum, and in the female with the uterus, some convolutions of the small intestine descending between it and those parts, unless the bladder be very full. Beneath the peritoneum, in the male, a part of the vas deferens is found on each side of the lower por- tion of this surface. The summit (sometimes named the superior fundus) is connected to the anterior abdominal wall , by a tapering median cord, named the urachus, which is composed of fibro-areolar tissue, mixed at its base with some muscular fibres which are prolonged upon it from the bladder. This cord, becoming narrower as it ascends, passes upwards from the apex of the bladder between the linea alba and the peritoneum, to reach