DEVELOPMENT OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 758 The two optic tJicdami, formed from the posterior and outer part of the anterior vesicle, consist at first of a single hollow sac of nervous matter, the cavity of which communicates on each side in front with the anterior of the commencing Fig. 559. Fig. 559.—Semidiagrammatic Views of the Inner Surface of the Right Cerebral Hemisphere of the Foetal Brain at various stages of development (from Schmidt). 1, 2, and 3, are from foetuses of the respective ages of eight, ten, and sixteen weeks ; 4, from a foetus of six months, a, lamina terminalis or part of the first primary vesicle which adheres to the sella turcica ; b, section of the cerebral peduncle as it passes into the thalamus and corpus striatum ; the arched line which surrounds this bounds the great cerebral fissure ; c, anterior part of the fornix and the septum lucidum ; d, inner part of the arch of the cerebrum, afterwards the hippocampus major and posterior part of the fornix; e, corpus callosum very short in 3, elongated backwards in 4 ; in 4, /, the superior marginal convolution; /', fronto-parietal fissure ; g, gyrus fornicatus ; p', the internal vertical fissure descending to meet the fissure of the hippocampus ; I, olfactory bulb ; F, P, 0, T, frontal, parietal, occipital and temporal lobes. cerebral hemispheres, and behind with that of the middle cephalic vesicle (corpora quadrigemina). Soon, however, by increased deposit taking place in A Fig. 560. B Fig. 560. —The Surface of the F<etal Brain at Six Months (from R. Wagner). This figure is intended to show the commencement of the formation of the principal fissures and convolutions. A, from above ; B, from the left side. F, frontal lobe ; P, parietal ; 0, occipital ; T, temporal ; a, a, a, slight appearance of the several frontal convolutions ; s, the Sylvian fissure ; s', its anterior division ; within it, C, the central lobe or convolutions of the island ; r, fissure of Rolando ; p, the vertical fissure (external part).