INTERNAL PAETS. 541 of the fornix, which is a thin layer of white brain-substance, broad behind and narrow in front (fig. 378, 0) : external and anterior to this is the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle (fig. 378, 10), a red vascular fringe, forming the border of the velum interpositum, a fold of pia mater extending inwards, on which the fornix rests : external and anterior to the choroid plexus is the anterior and outward part of the optic thalamus, appearing from beneath it (fig. 379,1); outside and in front of the thalamus is the corpus striatum; and between these two bodies is a narrow flat band, the taenia semicircular is. The anterior cornu (fig. 379, g) is the blind anterior extremity of the ventricle, projecting a little way into the white substance of the frontal lobe. It is covered by the corpus callosum, and turns forwards and outwards round the anterior free extremity of the corpus striatum, descending as it proceeds, and bounded behind by that bod}', and in front by the reflected part of the corpus callosum. The middle or descending cornu turns round the back part of the optic thalamus, which appears in its cavity and forms its anterior boundary, while its remaining boundaries are formed by the hemisphere. At its commencement it is directed backwards and outwards ; then, passing downwards with a sweep, it curves forwards, and at its extremity has a marked inclination inwards. The principal object seen upon the floor of the cornu is the hippocampus major (pes hippocampi or cornu ammonis), a large white eminence extending the whole length of the cornu (figs. 379, 381, G, 6'). The hippocampus major becomes enlarged Fig. 380.—A Deep "View of the Lateral Ventricles and their cornua with the Velum Interpositum. \ The fornix lias been divided near its anterior pillars and turned back, c, the anterior part of the corpus callosum divided ; c, the lyra on the lower surface of the corpus callosum and fornix ; /, ante- rior pillars of the fornix divided (these are represented of too large a size); g, anterior, and h, posterior cornu of the lateral ventricle; 7c, h, corpora striata ; q, hippocampus major in the lower part of the middle cornu ; r, r, thalami optici ; s, s, tenia se- micircularis ; t, t, choroid plexus ; v, velum interpositum ; x, x, posterior pillars of the fornix ; y, eminentia collate- xalis. towards its anterior and lower extremity, and is indented or notched on its edge, so as to present some resemblance to the paw of an animal, whence it has been called the pes hippocampi. The white fibres of its surface form only a thin