STRUCTURE OF THE STOMACH. 350 phatics of the stomach pass within these duplicatures of the membrane, and reach the organ along its two curvatures. Its anterior and posterior surfaces are free, smooth, and covered with peritoneum. The anterior surface, which is directed upwards as well as forwards, is in contact above with the diaphragm and the under surface of the liver, and lower down with the abdominal parietes opposite the epigastric region, which is hence named the pit of the stomach. The posterior surface is turned downwards and backwards, and rests upon the transverse meso-colon, behind which are the panereas and great vessels of the abdomen. At its cardiac orifice it is continuous with the gullet, and is there fixed by a reflection of peritoneum to the oesophageal opening in the diaphragm. The pyloric extremity, situated lower down, nearer to the surface, and having greater freedom of motion, is continuous with the duodenum, is covered by the concave surface of the liver, and in some cases touches the neck of the gall-bladder. When the stomach is distended, its position and direction are changed. The great curvature is elevated and at the same time car- ried forwards, whilst the anterior surface is turned upwards, and the posterior surface downwards. STRUCTURE. The stomach has four coats, named, in order from without inwards, the serous, muscular, areolar or submucous, and mucous coats (fig. 245). Taking all the coats together, they are thinner than those of the oeso- phagus, but rather thicker than those of the intestines generally. They are thickest at the pyloric end, and thinnest in the great cul-de-sac. Fig. 245. —Diagrammatic View in Perspective of a Portion op the Coats of the Stomach and [Duodenum, including the Pylorus (Allen Thomson). g, the inner surface of the gastric mucous- membrane ; g', section of the mucous membrane with the pyloric gastric glands ; v, the villous sur- face of the mucous membrane of the duodenum : section of the same with the intestinal glands or crypts of Lieberkuhn; p p, the ridge of the pyloric ring, with a section of its component parts ; m i, deep or circular layer of muscular fibres : these are seen in the section to form the pyloric sphincter ; m e, external or longitudinal layer of muscular fibres ; s, the serous covering. The external or serous coat (s), derived from the peritoneum, is a thin, smooth, transparent, and elastic membrane which closely covers the entire viscus, excepting along its two curvatures. Along the line of these curvatures the attachment is looser, leaving an interval occu- pied by the larger blood-vessels. The second or muscular coat, is composed of plain muscular tissue, forming three sets of fibres, disposed in layers, and named, from their direction, the longitudinal, the circular, and the oblique fibres. The first or outermost layer consists of the longitudinal fibres (fig. 245, me, fig. 246, a), which are in direct continuity with those of the oesophagus. They spread out in a radiating manner from the cardiac orifice, and are found in greatest abundance along the curvatures, espe- Fig. 245.