532 THE CEREBRUM. extremity of the corpus callosum, and courses first forwards, then up- wards, and then backwards, parallel with the edge of the longitudinal fissure, and finally turns upwards to end at this edge just behind the- position of the upper extremity of the fissure of Rolando. It separates, the marginal convolution from the convolution of the corpus cailosum,. hence its name. Convolutions.—The marginal convolution commences in front of the anterior perforated spot, and extends along the edge of the longitudinal fissure as far as the termination of the calloso-marginal fissure at the upper margin of this surface. Over this margin it is continuous with the superior frontal convolution, and its continuation (straight convo- lution) on the orbital surface. It is commonly broken up by secondary fissures, one of which often runs parallel to part of the calloso-marginal fissure. A secondary convolution not uncommonly connects it with the next gyrus. The convolution of the corpus callosum, gyrus fornicatus (g. forn., fig. 373), commences near the anterior perforated spot, and, turning round the anterior extremity of the corpus callosum runs backwards along its upper surface, and then, bending down behind its posterior extremity,, takes the name of the uncinate convolution. On its outer side is the calloso-marginal fissure as far as the latter extends. The quadrate lobule (precuneus), is a four-sided area lying between the internal part of the parieto-occipital fissure behind, and the termi- nation of the calloso-marginal fissure in front. It is variously sub- divided into small gyri, of which the highest is continuous with the superior parietal lobule, and the lowest forms part of the gyrus forni- catus. The cuneate lobule (occipital lobule) is a wedge-shaped area lying between the internal parieto-occipital and the calcarine fissures. Occipitotemporal region.—The convolutions of the lower part of the occipital lobe and the inner temporo-sphenoidal convolutions are continuous, and may be considered together as three in number. The superior occipito-temporal convolution {uncinate or hippocampal convolution) extends from near the posterior extremity of the hemisphere to the anterior portion of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, lying at first beneath the calcarine fissure, and then beneath the dentate fissure. Its anterior extremity is rounded into a hook called by Yicq-d'Azyr the "crotchet;" hence its name. Beneath the posterior extremity of the corpus callosum this convolution is joined by the gyrus fornicatus, in front of the calcarine fissure. The inferior occipito-temporal convolution has a similar extent and parallel course, reaching through the occipital and temporo-sphenoidal lobes of wdiich it forms the lower margin. A middle occipito-temporal convolution may be sometimes distinguished between the two just described. The dentate or hippocampal fissure commences within the posterior extremity of the gyrus fornicatus, which separates it from the calcarine fissure. Thence it extends downwards and forwards, ending below in the notch of the uncinate convolution. Its floor is formed by grey matter, called the fascia dentata (see p. 548). This fissure corresponds, to the elevation of the hippocampus major within the lateral ventricle. The collateral fissure lies below the uncinate gyrus and parallel to the calcarine and dentate fissures. It extends beneath the floor of the