MATURATION OF THE OVUM—FECUNDATION. 675 germinal vesicle,—a phenomenon which occurs in all vertebrates, and in a large proportion of, but probably not all invertebrate animals. This change is independent of fecundation. The details of the process have not been traced in mammals, but from various observations in birds and batrachia, and more especially from the recent minute researches of Oellacher in fishes, it follows that the disappearance of the vesicle really depends on its extrusion from the substance of the yolk in which it was imbedded, and is attended with the bursting or breaking down of its delicate outer membrane ; so that when the vesicle is thrust out on the surface of the yolk, and opened out, its fluid contents must be effused in the space intervening between the vitelline membrane and the surface of the yolk. The actual expulsion of the vesicle in the trout's ovum is attributed by Oellacher to the contractions of the yolk protoplasm, and the expulsion of the vesicle in this animal takes place previous to the rupture of its membrane and dispersion of its contents. (Archiv. f. Mikroscop. Anat. vol. viii. p. 24.) Fig. 490.—Mature Ovarian Ovum of the Fig. 490. Guinea-pig (from Bischoff.) 3?-° The zona pellucida is hidden by the adherent ~"\ ^-{-zr\j' o cells of the membrana granulosa, which have as- \, - ' X 0 sumed a pediculatcd form next its surface. The finely granular yolk substance fills the cavity of the zona. The germinal vesicle has disappeared. The time at which the disappearance takes place seems to be subject to some variation. Most frequently it is close upon the time of the escape of the ovum from the Graafian follicle ; but sometimes it is several hours later, and " ~ - V* in other instances it seems to occur "u previously ; and, indeed, in many cases preparatory changes in the position, form, and consistence of the vesicle have been observed while the ovum was still within the ovary. As the mammiferous ovum leaves the ovary it has still adhering to its outer surface one or two layers of the cells belonging to that part of the tunica granulosa with which it was surrounded in the Graafian follicle. These cells assume towards the period of maturation more or less of a pediculated form (see fig. 490), but after one or two days they gradually fall away from the surface of the zona, and leave that mem- brane free in the Fallopian tube. Fecundation.—Should the ovum not be fecundated it is carried down through the female passages by the ciliary action of the lining membrane, and is lost by absorption or removal. But if seminal matter is present in the tubes, and the ovum is subjected to its influence within a due time, so that fecundation is effected, there immediately follows the commencement of a series of changes in the yolk protoplasm, which result in the formation in a determinate situation of a stratum of organised cells constituting the laminar germ named the blastoderm, which is the seat of all subsequent processes of development in the ovum. The encounter of the ovum with the seminal filaments or sperma- tozoa generally takes place in the upper part of the Fallopian tube or