BLOOD-VESSELS. 170 small quantity, the proportion of which increases with the size of the artery. It is important further to note that the muscular tissue oi the middle coat is more pure in the smaller arteries, and that the admixture of other tissues increases in the larger-sized vessels; in these, moreover, the muscular cells are smaller. Accordingly, the vital contractility of the arteries, which depends on their middle coat, is very little marked in those of large size, but becomes much more conspicuous in the smaller branches. External coat. {Tunica aclvenUtia of the German writers) (fig. 107, d). This is composed maiuly of fine and closely-felted bundles of white connective tissue, together with a variable amount of longitudinally disposed elastic tissue between the bundles (in the fig. this is seen cut across). This is much more abundant towards the inner part, next the muscular coat, and is frequently described as constituting here a distinct elastic layer: it is most marked in arteries of medium calibre, becoming thinner, and at length gradually disappearing in those of small size. In large and middle-sized arteries the bundles of white connective tissue chiefly run diagonally or obliquely round the vessel, and their interlacement becomes much more open and lax towards the surface of the artery, where they connect the vessel with its sheath or with other surrounding parts. Longitudinally arranged contractile fibre-cells have been described by various observers in the external coat of some of the larger arteries, and they are said to be occasionally present amongst the circularly disposed fibres of the middle coat, and even in the sub- epithelial layer of the internal. The white tissue is usually of great proportionate thickness in the smaller arteries. Some arteries have much thinner coats than the rest, in proportion to their calibre. This is strikingly the case with those contained within the cavity of the cranium, and in the vertebral canal; the difference depends on the external and middle coats, which in the vessels referred to are thinner than elsewhere. Vessels and "Nerves of Arteries.—The coats of arteries receive small vessels, both arterial and venous, named vasa vasorwn, which serve for their nutrition. The little nutrient arteries do not pass imme- diately from the cavity of the main vessel into its coats, but are derived from branches which arise from the artery (or sometimes from a neigh- bouring artery), at some distance from the point where they are ultimately distributed, and divide into smaller branches within the sheath, and upon the surface of the vessel, before entering its coats. They form a network in the tissue of the external coat, from which a few penetrate into the middle coat, and follow the circular course of its fibres; none have been discovered in the internal coat, unless the observations of Jasche and Arnold are to be trusted, who affirm that they have seen vessels in that situation. Minute venules return the blood from these nutrient arteries, which, however, they do not closely accompany, and discharge it into the vein or pair of veins which usually run alongside the artery. Lymphatics are present in the outer coat. Arteries are generally accompanied by larger or smaller nerves ; and when, in the operation of tying an artery, these happen to be included along with it in the ligature, great pain is experienced, but the vessel itself, when in a healthy condition, is insensible. Nerves are, neverthe- less, distributed to the coats of arteries, probably for governing their