70 CONNECTIVE TISSUE. 3. A third variety of connective tissue is commonly met with in the form of delicate membranes and was formerly supposed to be quite homogeneous in structure. These membranes have, however, in almost every case, been shown to be made up of flattened cells, in close apposition, and more or less fused together by their edges, which can, however, be brought to view by staining with nitrate of silver. Examples of such are to be found in the walls of the capillaries, the hyaloid membrane of the eye and the membrance propria lying under the epithelium of mucous membranes at certain parts, in gland ducts and the like. It must be noted, however, that some homogeneous membranes, as for example, the posterior elastic lamina of the cornea, are of a different nature. DEVELOPMENT OF THE CONNECTIVE TISSUE. Those parts of the early embryo in which connective tissue is subse- quently to be developed, are at first composed entirely of closely agglomerated embryonic cells, to all appearance similar to those of which the remainder of the body is constituted (see p. 8). The first change of importance that occurs is the development of blood-vessels from some of these cells in the manner that has already been partly explained (p. 41), and will be further treated of when those vessels have come under consideration. Soon after the development of these primitive blood-vessels the embryonic cells become more separated, but retain for the most part a connection with one another by interjoining processes ; and the interstices between the cells are now found to be filled with a clear fluid, as to which it is uncertain whether it is pro- duced by the cells themselves, or derived directly by transudation from the blood-vessels, as Boll is inclined to believe : it is to be noted, how- ever, that besides albumin this fluid contains mucin, which is commonly a product of cells and is not demonstrable in thet liquor sanguinis. This muco-albuminous fluid subsequently acquires a firmer consistence and eventually remains as the ground substance, which in the adult tissue, although widely diffused, is nevertheless, relatively to the fibres, in very small amount. A difference is noticeable in the relations of the cells according as areolar or fibrous tissue is to become developed, they being in the former case connected together both laterally and at their ends, in the latter at their ends merely ; rows- or chains of cells being thus produced. Before long a delicate striation appears within the cells, in the case of the fibrous tissues in a longitudinal direction only, in that of the areolar obliquely and transversely as well: this striation (which afterwards passes into fibrillation) may be traced through the connecting processes from one cell into another. In this manner each bundle of fibrils is produced from a series of connected cells by the conversion of the whole or of a part only of their protoplasm into collogenous sub- stance : in the latter case the remainder of the cell becomes flattened out and persists on the surface of the bundle as a connective-tissue corpuscle or tendon-cell, as the case may be. In the areolar tissue many of the smaller bundles or threads are formed from processes which grow out from the corpuscles into the surrounding ground-sub- stance, and, interlacing and intertwining with processes from other cells,.