THE BLASTODERM. 681 mentioned topic it may be remarked that certain heaving and rotatory motions which have been observed by several embryologists immediately before and dur- ing the occurrence of the cleavage, indicate the play of contractile and it may be of other forces within the protoplasm ; and these forces have been supposed to have some relation to the nucleus. Recent observations by Flemming in the ovum of Anodonta, of Oellacher in that of the trout, and of Goette in the toad, seem to show that there is some structural condition related to the process of division which may have a connection with its occurrence ; for in the eggs of these animals the space within the domain of each segment sphere about to be formed is occupied by fine filaments radiating from the centre towards the ■circumference, and preceding the formation of the clear nuclear space within. It is probable that the hyaline globules may be the result of the first yolk contraction. Secondary Segmentation.—The segmenting process previously described may be called primary, for it is not yet ascertained in how far the whole of the blastoderm, considered as the organised substratum for the development of the new being, owes its origin directly to the first process of germ segmentation, or to what extent a later process of an analogous kind may contribute to the formation of some of its deeper elements. The most recent observations, such as those of Oellacher and Goette on the egg of the bird, of Ray Lankester on the ova of Cephalopoda, and of Balfour on that of sharks, would tend to support the view that in meroblastic ova at least, the process of segmentation, considered as one of conversion of the yolk into blastodermic elements, is not completed in the first series of such divisions, but continues to take place in a modified form for some time afterwards, thus extending the blastoderm over the surface of the yolk more and more by the addition of newly acquired elements. These elements appear to be formed from new centres of cell organisation external to the limits of the germinal part of the ovum, by what may be called a process of free cell formation, and to contribute mainly to the production of the deeper part of the blastoderm. (Ray Lankester in Ann. & Mag. of Nat. Hist., 1873, p. 81, and F. M. Balfour in Journ. of Microscop. Science, July, 1873 and 1871 ; Goette in Archiv. fur Mikroskop. Anat., vol. x., 1874.) Partial segmentation in unfecundated ova.—It is proper further to state that although the process of segmentation as now described is the necessary preliminary to the formation of the blastoderm and is only complete in ova which have been perfectly fecundated, yet an imperfect or partial kind of segmentation has been found also to occur in unfecundated ova. This has now been observed in a variety of animals, such as mollusca, fishes, batrachia, and also in the mammiferous ovum (see Bischoff, Ann. d. Sc. Nat. 1814, and Miiller's Archiv. 1847; Leuckart, article "Zeugung'Mn Wagner's Handworterbuch der Physiol., 1852). Oellacher has recently investigated these phenomena with care in. the egg of the fowl, from which it appears certain that some degree of segmentation of the germ does occur in unfecundated ova, but that it is of an irregular and incomplete kind as compared with that which follows impregnation, that it never goes on to the formation of a complete cellular blastoderm, and that although some of the earlier stages of segmentation are gone through and the germ is to some extent divided into segment areas, yet these are afterwards broken up by vacuoles and other unnatural processes of development, and no true blastodermic layer of cells is formed (fig. 495, c). Enough, however, has been seen to show that some formative power resides in the germinal part of the yolk independently of the concurrence of the male element. It is not improbable that this segmentation in unfecundated ova may occur to a greater extent in the lower than in the higher animals. 2. THE BLASTODERM ; ITS STRUCTURE AND RELATION TO THE DEVELOPMENT OP THE EMBRYO. Position and extent.—It has already been stated that in the bird's egg the result of segmentation is the conversion of the germinal disc into an organised cellular blastoderm, which, from the time of its first