510 MEDULLA OBLONGATA. enlarged. Between the central canal (c) and the bottom of the anterior median fissure are the decussating fibres. A little higher (fig. 357, B) the caput cornu has increased in size and is connected with the neck only by a network. The central grey substance is encroached upon by the fibres from the lateral columns which course forwards and inwards to the decussation (p) and separate the anterior cornua from the rest of the grey substance. The substance of the posterior pyramid becomes filled with cells and fibres which are connected with the posterior cornu near its origin. This constitutes the post-pyramidal nucleus or gang- lion (ppn). A little further out, on each side, a projection backwards from the cervex cornu into the restiform body constitutes the rudiment of the restiform nucleus (r n). Still higher up the medulla (fig. 357, C) these masses of grey matter have increased in size, so that on a level with the lower part of the olivary bodies, that which was the caput cornu posterioris approaches the surface, behind the restiform body, and becomes known as the grey tubercle of Rolando (tr C, D and E). Still higher up, the post-pyramidal and restiform ganglia coalesce, and both they and the grey tubercle become connected with the nuclei of origin of certain nerves. The olivary nuclei which appear on the outer side of the anterior pyramids are unconnected with the system of grey matter prolonged from the spinal cord. The anterior pyramids are free from grey matter in their interior, and are separated from the rest of the medulla by strong septa of connective tissue, and from one another by a raphe, which extends back to the grey matter surrounding the central canal, and which contains mesial horizontal fibres, named septal. Nerve nuclei.—A continuous series of collections of grey matter, which extends from beneath the corpora quadrigemina, downwards along the floor of the fourth ventricle and the centre of the medulla oblongata as far as the decussation of the pyramids, constitutes the nuclei of origin of the cranial nerves from the third to the hypoglossal. Those nuclei con- tained in the medulla oblongata proper give origin to the hypoglossal, the spinal accessory, the vagus, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerves. Just above the decussation the narrowed central grey matter which sur- rounds the canal contains numerous very large multipolar cells, arranged in definite groups in front and behind the canal, and symmetrical on the two sides. Those in front of the canal (fig. 257, D xn') give origin to the fibres of the Injpoglossal nerve, which may be seen extend- ing from them through the olivary body to emerge at its inner side. Erom the cells behind the canal (xi'), the upper roots of the spinal accessory nerve arise and pass out through the lateral column (xi). At the point of the calamus scriptorius this nucleus becomes divided into twro parts as the central canal of the cord opens into the fourth ven- tricle, and it increases in size at the expense of the adjacent part of the posterior pyramid. Its cells then give origin to the fibres of the pneumogastric or vagus nerve and constitute the vagal nucleus. Higher up (E and F) the hypoglossal nucleus comes to the surface, and dividing, pushes apart the two halves of the vagal nucleus, which have increased in size, partly at the expense of the adjacent post-pyramidal nucleus. Their cells frequently contain brown pigment and lie in a dense net- work of fine nerve-fibres. Still higher the hypoglossal nuclei become smaller, the vagal nuclei also lessen in size, and a group of cells appears