THE THYROID BODY. 296 Commonly this process lies somewhat to the left ; occasionally it is thicker above than below, or is completely detached, or is split into two parts : sometimes it appears to consist of fibrous tissue only. In many cases muscular fasciculi, most frequently derived from the thyro-hyoid muscle, but occasionally independent, descend from the usually two inches or upwards in length, an inch and a quarter in breadth, and three-quarters of an inch in thickness at its largest part, which is below its middle : the right lobe is usually a few lines longer and wider than the left. The isthmus measures nearly half an inch in breadth, and from a quarter to three-quarters of an inch in depth. The tueight of the thyroid body varies ordinarily from one to two ounces. It is always larger in females than in males, and appears in many of the former to undergo a periodical increase about the time of menstruation. It commonly varies a good deal in size, and occasion- ally undergoes enormous enlargement, constituting the disease called goitre, or bronchocele. Its colour is usually of a dusky brownish red, but sometimes of a yellowish hue. The function of the thyroid body is unknown. Structure.—The texture of this organ is firm, and to the naked eye appears coarsely granular. It is' invested by a thin transparent layer of dense areolar tissue, which connects it with the adjacent parts, sur- rounds and supports the vessels as they enter it and imperfectly separates its substance into small masses of irregular form and size. This interstitial areolar tissue is free from fat, and contains elastic fibres. When the organ is cut into, a yellow glairy fluid escapes from the cut surface. Its substance is composed of multitudes of closed vesicles, which are surrounded by capillary vessels, and are held together in groups or imperfect lobules by areolar tissue. The size of the vesicles varies from ^^th of an inch to that of a millet-seed, so as to be visible to the naked eye,—varying, however, in different individuals, more than in the same thyroid body. They are spherical, ovoid, or flattened, and Fig. 199. Fig. 199.—Magnified View of several Vesicles from the Thyroid Gland of a Child (from Kolliker). a, connective tissue between the vesicles ; b, capsnle of the vesicles ; c, their epithelial lining. hyoid bone to the thyroid gland or its pyramidal process. They are known as the levator glandulce, tliyroidece (fig. 198, It). It sometimes, though rarely, happens that the isthmus is altogether wanting, the lateral lobes being then connected by areolar or fibrous tissue only : this is the natural condition in some animals. Each lateral lode measures