ABSOEPTION OF BONE. 105 silver or platinum put round the wing bone of a growing pigeon, becomes covered with new bone from without, and the original bone included within it gets thinner, or, according to Duhamel, who first made the experiment, is entirely removed, so that the ring comes to lie within the enlarged medullary canal. Madder given to an animal along- with its food tinges those parts in which deposition of new bone is taking place. The earth of bone appears to act as a sort of mordant, uniting with and fixing the colouring matter ; and, as in this way the new osseous growth can be readily distinguished from the old, advantage was taken of the fact by Duhamel, and afterwards by Hunter, in their inquiries as to the manner in which bones increase in size. By their experiments it was shown that when madder is given to a young pig for some weeks, the external part of its bones is deeply reddened, proving that the new osseous matter is laid on at the surface of that previously formed. Again, it was found that, when the madder was discontinued for some time before the animal was killed, an exterior white stratum (the last formed) appeared above the red one, whilst the internal white part, which was situated within the red, and had been formed before any madder was given, had become much thinner ; showing that absorption takes place from within. In this last modification of the experi- ment also, as noted by Hunter, a transverse red mark is observed near the ends of the bone, beyond which they are white ; the red part indicating the growth in length during the use of the madder, and the white beyond, that which has taken place subsequently,—thus showing that the increase in length is caused by the addition of new matter to the extremities. But other changes take place in the bone. The spaces in the cancellated structure, as well as the medullary canal, become enlarged by absorption; whilst in other parts the tissue be- comes more compact by farther deposit on the inner surface of the vascular cavities. The sides of the shaft in particular acquire greater solidity by the narrowing of the Haversian canals, within which the osteoblasts continue to deposit fresh layers of bone ; and madder administered while this process is going on, colours the interior and recently-formed laminas, so that in a cross section the Haver- sian apertures appear surrounded with a red ring. Flourens,* and more recently, Kolliker, have repeated and varied these experi- ments, and have represented the results in beautiful delineations. Kolliker has, in addition, carefully investigated the microscopic appearances observed in the process of absorption of bone. From the results of his researches (which were in part anticipated by those of Loven),f it would seem that the process is essentially dependent on the presence of large multi-nucleated cells, by him termed " osto- clasts" (the myeloplaques of Bobin), which excavate, in the part which is undergoing absorption, small shallow pits (forcolce) in which also they lie. These pits were first noticed by Howship : they seem to occur wherever absorption is proceeding, and it is to them that the festooned appearance of the Haversian spaces is due. The ostoclasts (fig. 63) vary in size, but are always many times larger than a blood-corpuscle : in shape they are almost always flat- tened, with either an even or an irregular outline. Their substance is granular, and they each contain from two to ten clear round nuclei, but this number may be considerably exceeded. The ostoclasts frequently present on the side by which they are in contact with the bone a thickened striated border (fig. 63, a), somewhat similar to the well-known thickened base of the columnar epithelium cells of the intestine. With respect to the origin and destiny of the ostoclasts, they are regarded by Kolliker both as in the first instance' derived from and as eventuaUy breaking up into osteoblasts. Wegner,J on the other hand, observed that the addition of new bone was much greater at the upper end. Humphry has found that in the femur the elongation is greater at the lower, and in the humerus at the upper end of the shaft (Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xliv.). * Recherches sur le Developpement des Os et des Dents. Paris, 1842. t Loc. cit., 1863. 5 Virch. Archiv. lvi. 1873.