FASCICULI. 109 nerves in their ramifications between these parts. The relation of these different subdivisions of a muscle to each other, as well as the shape of the fasciculi and fibres, is well shown by a transverse section (figs. 64 and 65). Fig. 64. Fig. 65. Fig. 64. — A, Small Portion op Muscle, natural size ; B, the same magnified 5 Diameters, consisting op larger and smaller Fasciculi, seen in a Transverse Section. Fig. 65.—A few Muscular Fibres, being part op a small Fasciculus, magnified, SHOWING THE TRANSVERSE STRI^l. a, end view of b, 6, fibres ; c, a fibre split into fibrils. Fasciculi.—The fasciculi are of a prismatic figure, and their sections have therefore an angular outline. The number of fibres of which .they consist varies, so that they differ in thickness, and a large fasciculus may be divisible into two or three orders of successively smaller bundles, but of no regularly diminishing magnitude. Some muscles have large, others only small fasciculi; and the coarse or fine texture of a muscle, as recognized by the dissector, depends on this circumstance. The length of the fasciculi is not always proportioned to the length of the muscle, but depends on the arrangement of the tendons to which their extremities are attached. When the tendons are limited to the ends of a long muscle, as in the sartorius, the fasciculi, having to pass from one extremity to the other, are of great length ; but a long muscle may be made up of a series of short fasciculi attached obliquely to one or both sides of a tendon, which advances some way upon the surface or into the midst of the fleshy part, as in the instances of th'e rectus muscle of the thigh, and the tibialis posticus. Muscles of the kind last referred to are named " penniform," from their resemblance to the plume of a feather, and other modifications of the arrangement, which can be readily conceived, are named "semi-penniform" and "com- pound penniform." Many short fasciculi connected thus to a long tendon, produce by their combined operation a more powerful effect than a few fasciculi running nearly the whole length of the muscle;