MEDIAN SURFACE. 531 spot. Its anterior convolution is continuous at the bottom of the limiting sulcus with the adjacent posterior orbital: its posterior con- volution joins the temporo-sphenoiclal lobe. Externally it is separated by a deep sulcus from the contiguous convolutions of the operculum, i. e., the extremity of the ascending parietal, ascending frontal, and inferior frontal convolution. The island of Reil covers the extra- ventricular nucleus of the corpus striatum. It appears earlier than any other division of the cerebrum, both in the foetus and in the animal series. The Internal or Median and Tentorial Surface (fig. 373), as already said, does not present the same division into lobes as does the external surface. Fissures.—The internal part of the parieto-occipital fissure is con- tinuous, at the margin of the longitudinal fissure, with the external por- tion. Thence it extends downwards and forwards, presenting a slight- curve with the convexity forwards, and blends with the calcarine fissure. The calcarine fissure commences at the posterior extremity of the hemisphere, usually in a bifurcated manner, and extends forwards to terminate beneath the posterior extremity of the corpus callosum. It is joined by the parieto-occipital fissure. The caMoso-marginal fissure (c mf) commences beneath the anterior Fig. 374. Fig. 374.—Right half of the Rrain divided by a Vertical Anteroposterior ^Section (from various sources and from nature). (Allen Thomson.) -}2 po, parieto-occipital fissure ; cc, posterior extremity of calcarine fissure ; ], 1, marginal convolution; 2, 2, gyrus fornicatus ; 3, 3, 3, secondary convolutions passing between this and the preceding; 3a, quadrate lobule ; 36, cuneate lobule ; 4, the fifth ventricle, and above it the divided corpus callosum ; 5, the third ventricle (see fig. 384); 5', pituitary body ; 6, corpora quadrigemina and peneal gland ; +, the fourth ventricle ; 7, pons Varolii ; 8, medulla oblongata ; 9, cerebellum i, the olfactory bulb ; II, the zight optic nerve, the commissure cut through ; nr, right third nerve.