STRUCTURE OF UTERINE WALLS. the peritoneum. The fibres of the subperitoneal layer arc much mixed with areolar tissue, especially about the middle of the anterior and posterior surfaces of the uterus, in which situation many of the super- ficial fibres appear to have as it were a median attachment from which they diverge. The fibres of the intermediate layer, which is compara- tively thin, begin chiefly on the back of the uterus, and stretch over ihe fundus and towards the sides, running somewhat irregularly between the blood-vessels. The inner layer, which is much the thickest of the three, consists of bands of fibres which are disposed with comparative regularity in its upper part, being arranged there in numerous con- centric rings round the openings of the two Fallopian tubes, the widest circles of the two series meeting from opposite sides in the middle of the uterus. In the lower part of the body, and in the cervix the internal fibres run more transversely, crossing each other at narrow angles in the most various directions. They form the so-called sphinc- ters of the os internum and os externum. At the neck, however, there are also longitudinal fibres within the strong transverse fibres of the layer now described. (Helie, Rech. sur la dispos. des fibres musculaires de l'uterus, Paris, 1869.) The long spindle-shaped cells of the uterine muscular tissue are very ■closely united together by cement substance, forming bundles which .are again connected by areolar tissue. The fibre-cells possess distinct oval nuclei; they are about yj^th of an inch in length in the unim- pregnated uterus, but attain sometimes the length of -fo th of an inch in the gravid condition. Mucous Membrane.—The mucous membrane lining the cavity of the body of the uterus differs greatly from that of the interior of the cervix, a marked line of distinction separating the two parts at the isthmus. The membrane of the cervix is much firmer than that of the body. Between the rugae of the so-called arbor vitae there are numerous folli- cular glands, which are lined with cubical epithelium, contain a clear alcaline fluid, and open by minute orifices on the surface. In the lower half of the cervix the mucous membrane is beset with vascular papilla). The epithelium of the cervix as a whole is cylindrical and ciliated : towards the os externum this passes into transitional and flat epithe- lium. Besides the follicular glands now mentioned, there are also the so-called ovula Nobothi, a set of clear or yellowish vesicles of variable •size, but visible to the naked eye, embedded in the folds of the mem- brane, and extending down to the os externum. These may arise from closed and distended follicles ; but their exact nature is still doubtful. During pregnancy the mucous glauds of the cervix secrete a consider- able quantity of tenaceous mucus, which effectually closes the passage downwards from the uterine cavity. The mucous membrane of the triangular cavity of the body is smooth, and in the unimpregnated state entirely devoid of ridges, and is of a peculiar soft or delicate spongy consistence, and of a dull, reddish colour. With a magnifying lens of an inch focus its surface is seen to be covered with a great many closely set small spots, in which may be detected the orifices of the utricular glands. This mucous membrane appears to be without any supporting connective tissue, and its thick- ness is made up mainly of its proper glands, between which is a some- what confused mass of small nuclei, cells of various form and size, H II 2