TEE TYMPANUM. 631 presents a narrow groove, which extends round the sides and floor of the meatus, but is deficient above ; into this the margin of the membrana tympani is inserted. The skin of the meatus is continuous with that covering the pinna, but is very thin, especially in the osseous part, and becomes gradually thinner towards the bottom of the passage. In the osseous part it adheres very closely to the periosteum, and at the bottom of the tube is stretched over the surface of the membrana tympani, forming the outer layer of that structure. After maceration in water, or when decompo- sition has advanced, the epidermic lining of the passage may be separated and drawn out entire, and then it appears as a small tube closed at one end somewhat like the finger of a glove. Towards the outer part the skin possesses fine hairs and sebaceous glands ; and in the thick subdermic tissue over the cartilage are many small oval glands of a brownish yellow colour, agreeing in form and structure with the sweat glands, but larger. The cerumen or ear-wax is secreted by these glands, glandulcv ceruminosce, and their numerous openings may be seen to perforate the skin of the meatus. These accessory parts are absent over the bony part of the tube. Vessels and nerves.—The external auditory meatus is supplied with arteries from the posterior auricular, internal maxillary and temporal arteries ; and with nerves chiefly from the temporo-auricular branch of the fifth nerve. The prin- cipal branches of the arteries course along- the upper and back wall of the canal. The nerves break up into numerous branches on reaching the osseous part. State in the infant.—The auditory passage is in a very rudimentary state in the infant, for the osseous part begins to grow out of the temporal bone only at the period of birth, and thus the internal and middle parts of the ear are brought much closer to the surface than in the adult. THE MIDDLE EAR OR TYMPANUM. The tympanum or drum, the middle chamber of the ear, is a narrow irregular cavity in the substance of the temporal bone, placed between the inner end of the external auditory canal and the labyrinth. It receives the atmospheric air from the pharynx through the Eustachian tube, and contains a chain of small bones, by means of which the vibra- tions communicated from without to the membrana tympani are in part conveyed across the cavity to the sentient part of the internal ear, and by which also pressure is maintained on the contents of the internal ear, varying in amount according to the tension of the membrana tympani. The tympanum contains certain minute muscles and ligaments, which belong to the bones referred to, as well as nerves, some of which end within the cavity, whilst others merely pass through it to other parts. A roof and floor, an outer and inner wall, and an anterior and posterior boundary are commonly described. The roof of the tympanum is formed by a thin plate of bone, which may be easily broken through so as to obtain a view of the tympanic cavity from above; it is situated on the upper surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, near the angle of union with the squa- mous portion, from which in its development it is derived. The floor is narrow, in consequence of the outer and inner boundaries being inclined towards each other. The outer wall is formed, to a small extent, by bone, but mainly by