THE UTERUS. 4G6 fibres in different stages of development, together with a consider- able quantity of intervening granular substance, and some plain mus- cular fibres derived from the inner muscular layer of the uterine wall. Uterine glands.—In the dog, as first shown by Sharpey (Miiller's Physiol., by Baly, 1842, p. 1574), and in various other animals, there are two forms of the uterine glands ; but in the human species it appears that there is only one form, viz., that of more or less convoluted and generally simple tubes. They are also, however, sometimes a little branched. Their form is generally that of equal cylinders throughout the length of the tube, with a slight dilatation in many towards the deep or closed extremities (E. H. Weber, Zusatze zur Lehre vom Baue, &c, der Geschlechtsorgane, 1846). Being set perpendicularly to the surface, and slightly convoluted, they are necessarily somewhat longer than the thickness of the membrane. Towards the fundus, the outer parts of the glands lie somewhat more obliquely. Each gland is composed of a delicate basement membrane, with em- bedded nuclei, and this is lined with prismatic nucleated epithelial cells, placed with their broader bases and nuclei towards the outer wall, and their narrow ends towards the lumen of the tube. (G-. Lott, in Rollett's Untersuch: II., Leipzig, 1871, and Chrobak, in Strieker's Handbuch, &c.; John Williams, M.D., The Struct, of the Mucous Memb. of the Uterus, 1875. See also Henle's Handb. der system. Anatomic, vol. ii.) Fig. 331. A * Fig. 331, A.—Section of the Glandular Structure op the Human Uterus at the commencement op Pregnancy (from E. H. Weber), f a, part of the cavity of the uterus showing the orifices of the glands ; d, a number of the tubular glands, some of which are simple, others slightly convoluted and divided at the extremities. Fig. 331, B.—Small Portion op the Uterine Mucous Membrane after Recent Impregnation, seen from the inner surface (from Sharpey). \2 The specimen is represented as viewed upon a dark ground, and shows the orifices of the uterine glands, in most of which, as at 1, the epithelium remains, and in some, as at 2, it has been lost. In a number of animals the glandular epithelium is ciliated, a fact which was observed by Allen Thomson in the uterine glands of the sow in 1846, but was first published by Ley dig in 1852, after an observa- tion by Nylander. (Miiller's Archiv., 1852, p. 375.) Many observers failed to detect this ciliated structure in the human uterine glands : but its existence was asserted by C. F. Fried hinder in 1870, and more recently it has been fully ascertained by J. Williams, who also observed