Fig. 175.—Anterior view of Fig. 175. THE HEART. 256 of the valves, strengthened on the sides next the septum by the processes from the fibro-cartilage. The rings of the arterial orifices give attachment below to some of the muscular fasciculi of the ventricle, whilst above they present an uneven edge with three deep semilunar notches, to which the middle coat of the artery and the flaps of the valve are firmly attached. The fibres of the middle coat of the artery, here comparatively thin, are not arranged annularly, as in other parts of the vessel, but converge to the intervals between the sinuses of Valsalva, to be attached to the fibrous rings. The tendinous rings of the aortic and left auricular orifices are con- fluent, so that when the fibrous tissue is destroyed by boiling the two apertures run into one. Heart of a Young Subject dissected after boiling, to show the Superficial Mus- cular Fibres, two-thirds THE NATURAL SIZE. (Allen Thomson). This figure is planned after one of Luschka's, but its details were chiefly taken from an original preparation. The aorta, b', and pulmonary artery, a', have been cut short close to the semilunar valves, so as to show the anterior fibres of the auricles, a, super- ficial layer of the fibres of the right ventricle ; b, that of the left ; e, c, anterior interventricu- lar groove, from which the coron- ary vessels have been removed, d, right auricle ; d', its appendix, both showing chiefly perpendicular fibres ; c, upper part of the left auricle ; between e, and the transverse fibres which behind the aorta pass across both auricles ; e', appendix of left auricle ; /, su- perior vena cava, around which, near the auricle, circular fibres are seen ; y, r/, right and left pulmonary veins with circular bands of fibres surrounding them. Muscular tissue.—The microscopical characters of the muscular tissue of the heart have been already considered (p. 119). It remains, however, to notice the general course and arrangement of the fasciculi (or " fibres," as they are ordinarily termed), in the auricles and ventricles respectively, for the muscular bundles of the two are not continuous, being only connected by the fibrous tissue around the auriculo-ventricular orifices : in conformity with this it is seen that after boiling the heart the auricles may be easily separated from the ventricles. Fibres of the auricles.—These consist of a superficial set, common to both cavities, and of deeper fibres proper to each. The superficial, common or transverse fibres run transversely over both venous sinuses, near the base, and are most numerous on the anterior surface ;