SIZE AND WEIGHT OF BRAIN. 577 Inferior frontal convolution, the posterior extremity of the middle frontal, and the greater part of the ascending- frontal convolutions are supplied by the middle cerebral. The orbital surface is supplied, outside the orbital sulcus, by the middle cerebral: within that sulcus (including the olfactory bulb) by the anterior cerebral. Parietal lobe.—All the convolutions of the parietal lobe are supplied by the middle cerebral artery. The occipital lobe is supplied by the posterior cerebral artery. Temporo-spJienoidal lobe.—The superior, and upper part of the middle temporo- sphenoidal convolutions are supplied by the middle cerebral artery. The lower portion of the lobe by the posterior cerebral. Inner surface.—The whole anterior and upper portion, as far back as the parietooccipital fissure, is supplied by the anterior cerebral artery ; the cuneate lobule and the occipitotemporal region by the posterior cerebral. The grey substance at the base of the cerebrum is supplied by small twigs from the adjacent vessels of the circle of Willis, or the commencing cerebral vessels. Central parts—corpus striatum.—Both nucleus caudatus and nucleus lenticu- laris are supplied almost exclusively by the middle cerebral artery. The anterior part of the caudate nucleus only being supplied by the anterior cerebral. The optic thalamus is supplied by the posterior cerebral artery, except its inner and outer portion, which is supplied by the middle cerebral. The corpora quadrigemina. and corpora geniculata are both supplied by the posterior cerebral artery. For further details on the subject the reader is referred to Vol. I., p. 378, and to a series of articles by M. Buret in the Archives de Physiologie for 1873 and 1871. SIZE AND WEIGHT OF THE EN CEP HAL ON". In the following table, illustrating the average weight of the adult male and female brain, the results obtained by Sims, Clendinning, Tiedemann, and J. Reid have been brought together in such a form as to exhibit in groups the most commonly prevailing weight ; the numbers being also simplified by the omission of fractions. (Sims, " Medico-Chirurg. Trans." vol. xix., pp. 353—7 : Clendinning, " Medico-Chirurg. Trans.," vol. xxi., pp. 59—68; Tiedemann, "Das Him des Negers," Heidelberg, 1837, pp. 6, 7 ; Reid, " London and Edinburgh Monthly Journal of Medical Science," April, 1843, p. 298, &c.) According to Table A, the maximum weight of the adult male brain, in a series of 278 cases, was 65 oz., and the minimum weight 3-1 oz. In a series of 191 cases, the maximum weight of the adult female brain was 56 oz., and the minimum 31 oz.; the difference between the extreme weights in the male subject being no less than 31 oz., and in the female 25 oz. By grouping the cases toge- ther in the manner indicated by brackets, it is shown that in a very large pro- portion the weight of the male brain ranges between 46 oz. and 53 oz., and that of the female brain between 41 oz. and 47 oz. The prevailing weights of the adult male and female brain may therefore be said to range between those terms; and, by taking the mean, an average weight is deduced of 49^ oz. for the male, a,nd of 44 oz. for the female brain,—results which correspond closely with the statements generally received. Although many female brains exceed in weight particular male brains, the general fact is sufficiently shown, that the adult male encephalon is heavier than that of the female,—the average difference being from 5 to 6 oz. This general superiority in absolute weight of the male over the female brain has been ascer- tained to exist at every period of life. In new-bom infants the brain was found by Tiedemann to weigh on an average from 14| oz. to 15f oz. in the male, and from 10 oz. to 13^ oz. in the female :—a fact of considerable interest in practical midwifery, for it has been shown that difficult labours occur in by far the largest number in the birth of male children. (Simpson, London and Edinburgh. Monthly Journal of Medical Science, 1845.) p p 2