743 DEVELOPMENT OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. grey substance, or the nerve-cells and non-medullated fibres. The cylindrical cells which, from the first, line the whole canal, remain per- manently in the part of it which forms the central canal of the spinal marrow, and frequently present the ciliated structure. THE SPINAL MARROW. The internal grey substance of the spinal marrow is first formed; the white substance is produced later on the exterior. The sides acquire considerable increased thickness, while the dorsal and ventral parts remain comparatively thin, so that the cavity assumes the appear- ance in section of a slit, which becomes gradually narrower as the lateral thickening increases ; and at last the opposite surfaces uniting in the middle divide the primary central canal into an anterior or lower and posterior or upper part (see figs. 547 and 548). The lower of these divisions becomes the permanent central canal, the upper or dorsal is afterwards so far obliterated that it is filled with a septum of connective tissue belonging to the pia mater, and becomes the posterior fissure of the cord (in human anatomy). (Lockhart Clarke, Phil. Trans. 1862.) In birds and mammals there is no distinction to be seen at first be- tween the outer or corneous layer of the involuted epiblast and the cells which by their increase more immediately constitute the medullary plates. In batrachia, however, the dark colour of the corneous layer shows it to be distinct from the more strictly nervous layers. In osseous fishes there is no medullary groove or canal at first, but an involution of a solid column of cells, which is subsequently hollowed out for the formation of a ventricular cavity. The masses of grey matter first formed in the spinal marrow corre- spond chiefly to the anterior columns; these are succeeded by lateral masses or columns, and somewhat later by small posterior columns. There are at first no commissures except by the passage of the deepest Fig. 548.—Transverse Section op the Cervical Part of the Spinal Cord op a Human Embryo of Six Weeks (from Kolliker). sf This and the following figure are only sketched, the white matter and a part of the grey not being shaded in. c, central canal ; e, its epithelial lining, at e (inferiorly), the part which becomes the anterior commissure ; at e (superiorly), the original place of closure of the canal ; a, the white substance of the anterior columns, beginning to be separated from the grey matter of the interior, and extending round into the lateral column, where it is crossed by the line from g, which points to the grey substance ; p, posterior column ; ar, anterior roots ; pr, posterior roots. layer of cells across the middle line, but the fibres from the roots of the nerves when formed are traceable into the grey substance of their respective anterior and posterior columns. The white substance is formed external to or on the surface of the deeper grey substance; but it is not yet determined whether it is