417 THE URETERS. in Cyclop, of Anat. and Phys.; G-. Harley, in the Lancet, June, 1858 ; Duckworth, in St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Reports, 1865 ; Moers, in Virchow's Archiv, 1864, vol. xxix. p. 336 ; J. Arnold, Virchow's Archiv, 1866, vol. xxxv. p. 64 ; v. Brunn, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. viii.; Eberth., Strieker's Handbook ; Leydig, Kolliker, Luschka, and Henle, in their Handbooks. Function.—Nothing is known positively with regard to the function of the suprarenal capsules. The opinion which has met with most acceptance among physiologists is that these bodies belong to the class of blood-vascular glands, and exert some influence upon the elaboration or disintegration of nutritive material. Bergmann, however, who was the first to point out the richness of their nervous supply, suggested that they were parts of the sympathetic nervous system, and in this opinion he has been followed by Leydig and Luschka ; while Xolliker states that, upon anatomical grounds, he is inclined to consider the cortical and medullary portions as functionally different; the former belonging to the group of vascular or ductless glands, the latter appearing to be an appa- ratus appertaining to the nervous system. Brown-Sequard found that injuries to the spinal cord in its dorsal region produced congestion and subsequent hyper- trophy of the suprarenal bodies. Addison has shown that a bronzed tint of skin, together with progressive emaciation and loss of strength, is to be found in con- junction with various forms of disease more or less involving and altering the structure of these bodies. THE URETERS. The ureters are two tubes which conduct the urine from the kidneys into the bladder. The dilated commencement of each, situated in the pelvis of the kidney and into which the calices pour their con- tents, has already been described. Towards the lower part of the hilus of the kidney the pelvis becomes gradually contracted, and opposite the lower end of the gland, assuming the cylindrical form, receives the name of ureter. These tubes extend downwards to the posterior and under part or base of the bladder, into which they open, after passing obliquely through its coats. The ureters measure from fourteen to sixteen inches in length ; their ordinary width is about that of a goose-quill. They are frequently, however, dilated at intervals, especially near the lower end. The narrowest part of the tube, excepting its orifice, is that contained in the walls of the bladder. Each ureter passes, at first, obliquely downwards and inwards, to enter the cavity of the true pelvis, and then curves forwards and inwards, to reach the side and base of the bladder. In its whole course, it lies close behind the peritoneum, and is connected to neighbouring parts by loose areolar tissue. Superiorly, it rests upon the psoas muscle, and is crossed, very obliquely from within outwards, below the middle of the psoas, by the spermatic vessels, which descend in front of it. The right ureter is close to the inferior vena cava. Lower down, the ureter passes either over the common or the external iliac vessels, behind the termination of the ileum on the right side and the sigmoid flexure of the colon on the left. Descending into the pelvis, it enters the fold of peritoneum forming the corresponding posterior false liga- ment of the bladder, and, reaching the side of the bladder near the base (u. fig. 304), runs downwards and forwards in contact with it, below the obliterated hypogastric artery, and is crossed upon its inner side, in the male, by the vas deferens (i), which passes down between the ureter and the bladder. In the female, the ureters run along the sides E E 2