£26 DEVELOPMENT OE THE EEPEO DUCT EVE OEGANS. fixing attention on the more important points of the foregoing descrip- tion, and indicating more clearly the homologies of the parts :— Female Permanent. Common Embryonal. Male Permanent. I. — COMMON BLASTEMA OF REPRODUCTIVE GLANDS. Ovary. Body of Testicle. Furnishes the. ovigerms and re- 1. Germ-epithelium covering .. Disappears, and is replaced by mains on the surface. serous covering of tunica vaginalis. Forms stroma of the ovary and 2. Deeper blastema Forms glandular seminal tubes the Graafian follicles. of the testis. II.- WOLFFIAN Transverse tubes of epoophoron or organ of Rosenmuller (Parovarium). Paroophoron (Wald.) Round ligament of the uterus BODIES. lomeru- 1. Upper tubular non lar part. 2. Lower glomerular part (pri- mordial kidneys). 3. Ligament of the Wolffian body. Vasa efferentia and coni vas- culosi of the epididymis. Paradidymis (Wald.), organ of Giraldes, and vasa aberrantia. Gubernaculum testis. III.-WOLFFIAN DUCTS. Tube of the Epoophoron 1. Upper and middle parts Convoluted tube of the epididy- mis. Ducts of Gaertner, in cow and pig 2. Lower part Vas deferens and vesicuhc .■niinales. IV.—MULLERIAN DUCTS. Fimbriated abdominal opening 1. Upper extremity Hydatid of IVTorgagni. and terminal and occasional hydatids Fallopian tubes 2. Middle part Occasional tubular prolonga- tions of uterus masculinus. Vagina and uterus 3. Lower single or median part Uterus masculinus (vesicula prostatica). V.—GENITAL CORD AND SINUS UROGENITALIS. Tissue uniting female urethra and 1. Substance surrounding geni- Prostate gland. Muscular and vagina. tal cord. glandular tissue. Female urethra 2. Upper part of cavity or Upper part of prostatic portion urinary pedicle. of the urethra. Ostium vaginse. Hymen 3. Confluence of urinary and Verumontanum. genital parts. Vestibule 4. Lower part Lower part of prostatic por- tion and membranous part of urethra. Glands of Bartholin 5. Common blastema Cowper's Glands. Crura and corpus clitoridis Glans clitoridis and vascular bulbs separate) Preputium clitoridis Integumental folds of nymphse (separate). Labia majora (separate) Perineum of female, with raphe . rI.—EXTERNAL ORGANS. 1.—Vascular parts. a. Corpora cavernosa b. Corpora spongiosa 2. Integumental parts. a. On genital eminence b. Lips of genital furrow c. Genital ridges (lateral) d. Transverse interanogenital band. Crura and corpus penis. Glans penis anil spongy body of urethra (united). Preputium penis. Integument and raphe below penis. Scrotum and raphe" (united). Perineum of male behind scrotum, with raphe.