Deferentia (from Haller). Fig. 322.—Dissection of the Fig. 322. 452 THE TESTICLES AND THEIR DUCTS. the vasa deferentia thus interposed, they occupy the two diverging sides of the triangular portion of the base of the bladder, which lies upon the rectum, and is bounded behind by the line of reflexion of the recto- vesical fold of the peritoneum. The seminal vesicles themselves also rest upon the rectum, but are separated from it by a layer of the recto- vesical fascia, which attaches them to the base of the bladder. Base of the Bladder and Prostate Gland, showing the Vesicul.e Seminales and Vasa a', lower surface of the bladder at the place of reflection of the peritoneum ; b, the part above covered by the peritoneum ; i, left vas deferens, ending in e, the ejaculatory duct ; s, left vesicula seminalis joining the same duct ; s, s, the right vas deferens and right vesicula semi- nalis, which has been unravelled ; 2>, under side of the prostate gland ; m, part of the urethra ; u, u, the ureters, the right one turned aside. The sacculated appear- ance of the vesiculse semi- nales is owing to their peculiar formation. Each consists of a tube some- what coiled and repeatedly doubled on itself, and firmly held in that condition by a dense fibrous tissue. When unrolled, this tube is found to be from four to six inches long, and about the width of a quill. Its posterior extremity is closed, so that it forms a long cul-de-sac ; but there are generally, if not always, several longer or shorter branches or diverticula connected with it, which also end by closed extremities. The anterior extremity of the tube of the vesicula, becomes straight and narrowed, and ends opposite the base of the prostate by uniting on its inner side, at an acute angle, with the narrow termination of the corresponding vas deferens to form a single canal, which is the common seminal or ejacula- tory duct. in structure, the vesiculaa seminales resemble very closely the adjoin- ing sacculated portions of the vasa deferentia. Besides an external fibro-areolar investment, connected with the recto-vesical fascia, they have a proper coat, which is firm, dense, and somewhat elastic, and con- sists of rigid white fibres and of others of a deep yellowish-brown hue. The muscular layer of the walls is thin compared to that of the vas deferens ; but a considerable amount of plain muscular tissue is found covering the posterior surface and extending transversely between the two vesiculas. There are also longitudinal muscular fibres traced from those of the bladder. (Ellis and Henle.) The mucous membrane is pale, or has a light yellowish-brown colour, given to it apparently by the tubular glands which beset it in the same manner as in the ampulla