388 THE LIVER. Blood-vessels.—The hepatic veins commence in the centre of each lobule by the convergence of its capillaries into a single independent Fig. 275.—Longitudinal Section of a Portal Canal, containing a Portal Vein, Hepatic Artery, and Hepatic Duct, prom the Pig (after Kier- nan). About 5 diameters. p, branch of vena portse, situated in a portal canal, formed amongst the he- patic lobules of the liver ; p, p, larger branches of portal vein, giving off smaller ones (i, i), named interlobular veins ; there are also seen within the large portal vein numerous orifices of interlobular veins arising directly from it ; a, hepatic artery ; d, biliary duct ; at c, c, the venous wall has been par- tially removed. intralobular vein (figs. 276, h; 277, 2 ; and 278, l), as already stated. These minute intralobu- lar veins open at once into the sides of the adjacent sublobular veins (fig. 277, l), which are of various sizes, and join together. Uniting into larger and larger vessels, they end at length in hepatic venous trunks, which receive no intralobular veins. Lastly, these venous trunks, converging towards the posterior border of the liver, and receiving in their course other sub lobular veins, terminate in the vena cava inferior, as already described. In this course the hepatic veins and their successive ramifications are unaccompanied by any other vessel. Their coats are thin ; the sub- lobular branches adhere immediately to the lobules, and even the larger trunks have but a very slight areolar investment connecting them to the substance of the liver. Hence the divided ends of these veins are seen upon a section of the liver as simple open orifices, the thin wall of the vein being surrounded closely by the solid substance of the gland. The portal vein and hepatic artery, which, accompanied by the emerg- ing Uliary ducts, enter the liver at the transverse fissure, have a totally different course, arrangement, and distribution, from the hepatic vein. Within the liver the branches of these three vessels lie together in certain canals, called portal canals, which are tubular passages formed in the substance of the gland, commencing at the transverse fissure, and branching upwards and outwards from that part in all directions. Each portal canal (even the smallest) contains one principal branch of the vena portse, of the hepatic artery, and of the biliary duct (fig. 275); the whole being invested within the larger portal canals by the capsule of Glisson. The portal vein subdivides into branches which ramify letween the lobules, anastomosing freely around them, and are named interlobular or peripheric veins. From these, still finer vessels pass into the lobules at their circumference (fig. 278, 3), and end in the capillary network from which the intralobular or central (hepatic) veins take origin. p da d a