THE EAR. 634 The membrane closing the fenestra rotunda—the secondary membrane of the tympanum (Scarpa)—is rather concave towards the tympanic cavity, and is composed of three strata like the membrana tympani; the middle layer being fibrous, and the outer and inner derived from the membranes lining the cavities between which it is interposed, viz., the tympanum and the cochlea. The posterior wall of the tympanum presents at its upper part one larger (fig. 446, 1), and several smaller openings, which lead into irre- gular cavities, the mastoid cells, in the substance of the mastoid process of the temporal bone. These cells communicate, for the most part, freely with one another, and are lined by a thin mucous membrane continuous with that of the tympanum. Behind the fenestra ovalis, and directed upwards, is a small conical eminence, called the pyramid, or eminentia papillaris (fig. 447, 12). Its apex is pierced by a foramen, through which the tendon of the stapedius muscle emerges from a canal which turns downwards in the posterior wall of the tympanum, and joins obliquely the descending part of the aqueduct of Fallopius. The anterior extremity of the tympanum is narrowed by the gradual descent of the roof, and is continued into the Eustachian orifice (fig. 447). Of the two compartments of this orifice, the lower, lined with mucous membrane, forms the commencement of the Eustachian tube ; the upper, about half an inch long, lodges the tensor tympani muscle, and opens into the tympanum immediately in front of the fenestra ovalis, surrounded by the expanded and everted end of the cochleariform process (fig. 446, 7), which separates it from the lower compartment. Fig. 447. Fig. 447.—Anteroposterior Section op the Temporal Bone, showing the Inner Wall op the Tympanum, with the Eustachian Tube and Small Bones in the Recent State (from Arnold). 1, styloid process ; 2, mastoid process ; 3, tlie upper part of the petrous bone ; 4, pharyngeal end of the Eustachian tube ; 5, its cartilage ; 6, its mucous surface ; 7, carotid canal ; 8, fenestra rotunda; 9, malleus ; 10, incus ; 11, stapes ; 12, pyramid and stapedius muscle ; above 9, and behind 10, the suspensory ligament of the malleus and the posterior ligament of the incus are also seen. The Eustachian tube is a canal, formed partly of bone, partly of car- tilage and membrane, which leads from the cavity of the tympanum to