THE HEART. 246 often cribriform or perforated with holes, is an important structure in the foetal heart, and serves the purpose of directing the stream of blood from the inferior cava through the foramen ovale into the left auricle. The other openings into the right auricle are 1,—the auriculo-ventricular aperture, situate in front of the inferior vena cava and occupying the anterior and under part of the cavity: it is oval in form and large, admitting three fingers easily ; 2, the orifice of the large coronary vein of the heart (fig. 167, 3"), situated between the inferior cava and the auriculo-ventricular opening : this is guarded by a semicircular valve, sometimes double, which, although previously figured by Eustachius, is often named valve of Thebesius ; 3, openings of one or two lesser cardiac veins from the surface of the right ventricle ; and 4, the fora- mina of Thebesius, a number of small pits variously situated, some of which are merely recesses closed at the bottom, whilst others are the mouths of small veins (vence minima cordis). Fig. 168. Fig. 168.—View op the Adult Heart, from BEHIND, TO SHOW THE CORONARY VEINS (Allen Thomson). One-third the Natural Size. a, placed on the back of the right auricle, points to the Eustachian valve seen Avithin the opening of the inferior vena cava ; b, left auricle ; c, right ventricle ; d, left ventricle ; e, vena cava superior ; /, arch of the aorta ; 1, coronary sinus ; 2, great coronary vein turn- ing round the heart in the auriculo-ventricular groove ; 3, 4, posterior branches ; 5, one of the small right cardiac veins passing directly into the right auricle ; 6, the vestige of the left superior vena cava proceeding over the left auricle downwards to join the coronary sinus. The coronary vein (fig. 168, 1) is con- siderably dilated before it enters the auricle, and this dilated portion, which is imbedded in the posterior wall of the left auricle, is termed the " coronary sinus." At the junc- tion of the coronary vein with the dilated portion there is a valve con- sisting of one or two segments. Other small veins likewise enter the coronary sinus, each of them protected by a valve. One of these small veins, the "oblique vein" of Marshall (fig. 168, 6), takes a straight course from the vestigial fold before mentioned, over the back of the left auricle, to open into the coronary sinus. This vein has no valve over its orifice : it, together with the coronary sinus, is to be looked upon as the remnant of the original left superior cava of the embryo (vide antea, p. 242). The right or anterior ventricle (fig. 165,1) occupies the chief part of the anterior surface of the heart, the right border, and a smaller portion of the posterior surface. It extends nearly, but not quite, to the apex. The upper and left angle is prolonged in a conical form to the commencement of the pulmonary artery: this part of the ventricle is named conus arteriosus, or infundibulum. The muscular wall of this ventricle is thickest at the base, and becomes thinner towards the apex. When the cavity is laid open (fig. 167) the septum of the heart is seen to bulge into it, so that the cross section is crescentic in form (fig. 169). At the base of the ventricle are two