659 THE ORGAN OF CORTI. ment of the feet, continuously into that of the basilar membrane, to which they are thus intimately connected (fig. 470). Occupying most of the head of the outer rod is an oval part free from fibres, and staining with carmine more readily than the rest : this appears to represent the nucleus of an epithelial cell from which the rod was originally developed. A similar, but smaller nucleus is sometimes, but not always, to be seen in the head of the inner rod, at a place cor- responding with the part that represents the root of the coronoid process ; and the substance of the rod presents in its neighbourhood ta somewhat granular protoplasmic appearance, as if there were here the remains of an original epithelial cell (fig. 474). Bat there is another trace of cell-formation always to be found in connection with both inner and outer rods, in shape of a little mass of protoplasm, enclosing a rounded nucleus, which occurs near the base of the rod and fills up the angle which it makes with the plane of the basilar membrane (fig. 471). Sometimes these masses of protoplasm extend along the last-named membrane until they come into contact, and then the floor of the arch of Oorti is covered by them. As before mentioned, the inner rods are more numerous than the outer,* they are moreover more closely set so as to touch one another along their whole length, whereas the outer rods are only in contact laterally by their heads ; finally the outer rods are in all parts longer than the inner, and in the upper turns of the cochlea considerably so (Winiwarter, Urban Pritchard). How the two sets of rods are jointed together at their heads is not very clear ; it is certain that but very little movement can be permitted, if any ; for the basilar membrane to which they are securely fixed below is stiff and seemingly inelastic, and the heads of adjacent rods are in close juxtaposition laterally. It is not improbable that the service which the rods and the other cuticular structures here serve, is to keep the parts which more im- mediately minister to the sense of hearing in a state of sufficient tension to be readily acted on by vibrations. Hair-cells.—The inner hair-cells are closely applied against the inner side (that turned towards the limbus) of two or three of the corresponding rods, the cells being considerably larger in diameter than the rods. They are very like somewhat short, columnar epithelium, and are prolonged below into a process, or it may be more than one, which, according to Waldeyer, is directly connected to one of the nerve fibres which turn up through the lamina spiralis just below these cells. Under them, and extending also below the gradually decreasing columnar epithelium, is an ill-characterised layer of protoplasmic cells with large round nuclei, amongst which fine nerve-fibres are said to run in a radial direction. _ Uniting the upper ends of the columnar cells internal to the rods, is a considerable amount of intercellular cuticular tissue, and this also forms around the top of each inner hair-cell a sort of ring, which is connected with slight projections on the flattened heads of the inner rods, and appears to represent the lamina reticularis here. The outer hair-cells are peculiar in shape. They are cylindrical at the upper end, where they fit into the rings of the lamina reticu- laris and bear the hairlets, but lower down are ribbon-shaped, being- flattened from within out, so that, when seen in profile, they look * According to Waldeyer there are altogether in the human cochlea about 6000 of the inner rods and 4500 of the outer ones.