GG1 THE ORGAN OF CORTI. Fig. 475. more shortened and acquire a more vertical direction, gradually passing into the simple, short columnar or cubical epithelium on the outer part of the basilar membrane. Between all these cells, as with those internal to the inner hair-cells, is a marked amount of cuticular deposit which is continuous with the outer end of the lamina reticularis (fig. 473,7;), and may be looked upon as prolonging this. Moreover, attached here and there to the phalanges of the lamina, processes or threads of cuticular substance may often be seen hanging downwards between the hair-cells (fig. 470 and fig. 474, c). These probably belong to certain cells which lie below the hair-cells and in proximity to or resting upon the basilar membrane. But the exact character of the cells in this situation and their relation to the hair-cells, have hitherto baffled observation. In the guinea- pig these underlying cells appear grouped, for the most part, into an irregular protoplasmic mass in which the rounded ends of the hair- cells lie embedded, and from which curved, stiff-looking processes pass in different direc- tions forming a sort of supporting framework. The successive series of outer hair-cells are not in contact with one another (although the cells of each series are so, laterally), but there is a distinct interval between them filled, ap- parently, only by endolymph, which also occu- pies the meshes of the sustentacular frame- work just mentioned. The whole region has the appearance of being kept in a state of tension by means of \ stiff cuticular structures, which serve to unite and at the same time to keep apart, the reticular lamina above, and the basilar membrane below. Fig. 475.—Four outer Hair-cells in Connec- tion, with their Basi- lar Processes. From the Guinea-pig. High- ly magnified. The cells belong to the same series and are viewed flat. It, one or two hair- lets which have remain- ed attached ; b, bulged lower end of cell; p, ba- silar process, protoplasmic above but becoming cuti- cular below and slightly expanded at the extremity f, which is broken away from the basilar mem- brane. Considerable differences occur in the compactness with which the elements in the outer hair-cell region are arranged both in different animals and in different parts of the cochlea of the same animal. It is in the upper turns of the cochlea that the arrangement which has just been described obtains, and it may be best seen in the cochlea of the guinea- pig, which, indeed, for various reasons offers better facilities for observation both on this and other points, than that of any other animal wre have examined. One or two peculiarities are observable in the guinea-pig's cochlea, but they do not materially complicate the observation. For instance, the outer hair-cell region is developed into an arching projection, the external part of the arch being formed by large flattened cells, and passing abruptly into the low-lying cubical epithelium of the outer part of the basilar membrane. This arched pro- jection is best seen in the upper turns; and it may further be noticed, that in the uppermost turn the flattened epithelial cells above-mentioned, possess the highly-interesting peculiarity of containing large fat droplets so as to cause them almost to appear like young fat-cells : the meaning of this development of fat is entirely unknown. The tectorial membrane is the last special structure which remains