THE PROSTATE GLAND. 427 said to be chiefly distributed to the upper part of the bladder, whilst the spinal nerves may be traced more directly to its neck and base. According- to Kisseleer, the nerves form a network immediately under the epithelium, from which filaments pass amongst the epithelium cells. Gangliated plexuses of nerves accompany the blood-vessels, and send branches both to these and to the muscular coat of the bladder (F. Darwin). THE URETHRA. The-,urethra is a membranous tube directed in the median line first vertically and then from behind forwards, beneath the arch of the pubes, in which situation it opens in the female iuto the vulva, while in the male it is enclosed in the corpus spongiosum, and prolonged beneath the corpora cavernosa penis. In the female, it serves simply as the excretory passage for the urine; in the male, it conducts also the seminal fluid. The detailed anatomy of the male and female urethra will be given with that of the organs of generation of the respective sexes. EEPEODUCTIYE OBGANS. I. IN THE MALE SEX. Under this head are included—1, the testes or reproductive glands, with their excretory apparatus, and their integumental and other cover- ings in the scrotum; and, 2, the uro-genital canal or urethra, together with certain accessory parts, such as the prostate and Cowper's glands. The second group of these organs, being most nearly related to those which have gone before, will be first described. They are all closely connected with the urethra, which in the male is at once the outlet for the urine from the bladder and the products of secre- tion from the sexual glands. This canal, extending from the neck of the bladder to the extremity of the penis, is surrounded in. its first part by the prostate gland, and there receives the excretory ducts of the testicles and vesiculas seminales ; its second part passes through the triangular ligament of the perineum ; the canal is then surrounded by the bulb and cylindrical part of the spongy body as it passes along the perineum and penis, and lastly it goes through the glans of that organ. THE PROSTATE GLAND. The prostate gland is a firm, glandular, and muscular body, some- what resembling a chestnut in shape and size, which adjoins the neck of the bladder, and encloses the first part of the urethra : it is placed in the pelvic cavity, on the inner aspect of the subpubic fascia, and rests posteriorly upon the rectum. Its form may be compared to that of a short cone flattened anteriorly, with its base in contact with the bladder, and cut obliquely, so that its posterior or rectal surface is larger than its anterior or pubic surface. It usually measures about an inch and a half across at its widest part, an inch and a quarter from its base to its apex, and nearly an inch in depth or thickness. Its ordi- nary weight is about six drachms. The anterior or pubic surface of the prostate is flattened and marked