VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE ^STOMACH. 355 (Hauptzellen) of the gland. The columnar epithelium 'cells of the mouths of the glands, as well as of the general surface, contain and secrete mucus, and are hence very readily transformed into goblet-cells after death. In some animals, the dog, for •example, it is found that the pyloric part possesses only the so-called mucous glands; the cardiac part only peptic, the two kinds passing, however, gradu- ally the one into the other. In the human subject, however, the two kinds of glands are less distinctly separated. Between and at the base of the glands the mucous membrane consists of a delicate connective tissue with retiform or lymphoid tissue in small amount. The stomachs of young persons, to all appearance healthy, sometimes present a mammillated aspect, due to little elevations of the surface, which are produced by local accumulations of lymphoid tissue, and some- what resemble the solitary follicles of the intestine in appearance. The lymphoid accumulations in question are, however, situated amongst the glands near the surface of the stomach, and do not extend into the sub- mucous tissue ; moreover they are not distinctly cir- cumscribed, but fade off into the surrounding retiform tissue. A thin layer of plain mus- cular tissue (muscularis mu- cosa?) bounds the mucous Fig. 249. Pi Dog's 249.—Gastric Glands from the Stomach, Highly Magnified. P. Portions of a "Peptic" Gland. 1, neck of the gland ; 2, fundus ; 3, transverse section ; p, peptic cells (Belegzellen) ; h, central cells (Hauptzellen) ; c, ends of columnar cells (after Heidenhain). M. A Pyloric or Mucous Gland. m, mouth; n, neck ; tr, a deep portion cut transversely (after Ebstein). membrane externally, sepa rating it from the submucous tissue (fig. 247, b). It commonly con- sists of more than one stratum (an outer longitudinal and an inner circular), and is better marked in some animals than in man. Off- sets pass from it between the the mucous membrane. Vessels and Nerves.—The stomach is a highly vascular organ. Its arterial branches, derived from all three divisions of the cceliac axis, reach the stomach between the folds of the peritoneum, and form, by anastomosing together, two principal arterial arches, which are placed along its two curvatures. After glands towards the surface of