BRANCHING AND CONJUNCTION OF NERVES. 141 The tissue here described as investing each funiculus and enclosing its proper fibres is named the neurilemma.''' It is covered quite exter- nally by a layer of large thin flattened cells, the outlines of which are brought into view by the silver treatment (as in fig. 83). The funiculi of a nerve are not all of one size, but all are sufficiently large to be readily seen with the naked eye, and easily dissected out from each other. In a nerve so dissected into its component funiculi, it is seen that these do not run along the nerve as parallel insulated cords, but join together obliquely at short distances as they proceed in their course, the cords resulting from such union dividing in their further progress to form junctions again with collateral cords ; so that in fact the funiculi composing a single nervous trunk have an arrange- ment with respect to each other similar to that which we shall presently find to hold in a plexus formed by the branches of different nerves. It must be distinctly understood, however, that in these communications the proper nerve-fibres do not join together or coalesce. They pass off from one nervous cord to enter another, with whose fibres they become intermixed, and part of them thus intermixed may again pass off to a third funiculus, or go through a series of funiculi and undergo still further intermixture; but throughout all these successive associations (until near the termination of the nerve) the fibres remain, as far as known, individually distinct, like the threads in a rope. The fibres of the cerebro-spinal nerves are chiefly, in some cases per- haps exclusively, of the white or medullated kind, but in most instances there are also grey fibres in greater or less number. Moreover, fila- ments of extreme tenuity, like the white filaments of connective tissue, occur, mixed up with well-characterised nerve-fibres within the sheaths of the funiculi. Lying alongside each other, the fibres of a funiculus form a little skein or bundle, which runs in a waving or serpentine manner within its sheath; and the alternate lights and shadows caused by the successive bendings being seen through the sheath, give rise to the appearance of alternate light and dark cross stripes on the funiculi, or even on larger cords consisting of several funiculi. On stretching the nerve, the fibres are straightened and the striped appearance is lost. Vessels.—The blood-vessels of a nerve, supported by the sheath, divide into very fine capillaries. These, which are numerous, run parallel with the fibres, many of them within the funicular sheaths, but are connected at intervals by short transverse branches, so as in fact to form a network with long narrow meshes. Lymphatics are found in the uniting connective tissue or perineurium. Little is known of their mode of commencement, but it is probable that, as in other parts, they take origin in the connective tissue. Spaces which appear to be lymphatic are met with between the layers of the neurilemma. Branching and conjunction of Nerves.—Nerves in their pro- gress very commonly divide into branches, and the branches of different nerves not unfrequently join with each other. As regards the arrange- * Some recent writers believing that the primitive sheath of the nerve-fibre cor- responds to the sarcolemma of muscle, have proposed to designate it as the neurilemma, and to use the term perineurium for the coarser sheathing of the nerves and nervous cords, to which the term neurilemma has been usually applied. The use of the term perineurium is unobjectionable, and may sometimes be convenient, but the proposed new and restricted application of the term neurilemma would lead to ambiguity, and is of doubtful propriety. The general external covering of the nervous trunks has been named "cellular sheath " (vagina cellulosa).