553 INTERNAL STRUCTURE. elongated vertically in front. A thick layer of grey substance occupies its floor, beneath which, on each side, is the common nucleus of the third and fourth nerves. INTERNAL STRUCTURE OF THE CEREBRUM. The cerebrum, like the rest of the encephalon, is composed of white and grey substance, the white pervading nearly the whole of its extent, though more exclusively composing its deeper parts ; the grey forming a covering of some thickness over the whole surface of the convolutions, and in certain of the deeper parts either collected into distinct masses or scattered among the bundles of nerve fibres, such as the corpora striata, thalami optici, corpora quadrigemina, and crura cerebri. To the grey substance, the names of cineritious and cortical have been applied ; to the white that of medullary. The White Matter of the encephalon consists of tubular fibres, varying in size in different parts, but in general still smaller than those of the cord, their average diameter being the T^o^ of an inch. Non-medullated fibres are seen only in the neighbourhood of the grey matter in the basal ganglia and cortex. The fibres of the white substance present no divisions. They are arranged in bundles sepa- Fig. 38G.—Sketch of a Dissection showing the connection of the Columns of the Medulla Oblongata with the Cerebrum and Cerebellum (from Mayo). 4 In the lower part of the figure the medulla oblongata is entire where it is prolonged downwards into the spinal cord ; a, the anterior pyramid ; a', its continuation upwards into the pons Varolii (m) ; c, olivary body ; c', olivary fasciculus ; behind c', the fasciculi teretes are represented ; d, the white laininse in part of the cerebellum ; /, superior peduncle of the cerebellum ; g, anterior part or crust of the cerebral peduncle ; h, part of the fibres radiating from the peduncle into the right cerebral hemisphere, of which a considerable extent is shown containing parts of the frontal, parietal, and occipital lobes ; h, y, y, part of the corona radiata ; U (in front), central fibres of the convolutions ; i, fillet ; I, back of the thalamus opticus ; m, pons Varolii ; n, inferior peduncle of the pins cerebelli; o, section of the pes hippocampi ; r, tegmentum ; y, y, show the white fibres issuing from the corpus striatum.