378 THE LARGE INTESTINE. the other at the lower end of the bowel, forming a shorter turn in the opposite direction. Unlike the rest of the large intestine, the rectum is not sacculated, but is smooth and cylindrical; and it has no separate longitudinal bands upon it. It is about eight inches in length, and at its upper end is rather narrower than the sigmoid flexure, but becomes dilated into a large ampulla or reservoir immediately above the anus. The upper part of the rectum, covered by peritoneum, is in contact in front with the back of the bladder (or uterus in the female), unless some convolutions of the small intestine happen to descend between them. The ureter and branches of the internal iliac artery are in contact with it on the left side. It is attached behind to the sacrum by a duplicature of peritoneum named the meso-rectum. Lower down the peritoneum covers the intestine in front and at the sides, and at last in front only; still lower, it quits the intestine altogether, and is re- flected forwards to ascend in the male upon the back of the bladder, in the female on the back of the upper part of the vagina and the uterus. In passing from the rectum to the bladder, the peritoneum forms a cul- de-sac, the recto-vesical pouch, which extends downwards between the intestine and the bladder to within an inch or more from the base of the prostate, and is bounded above at each side by a lunated fold of the serous membrane, of which the left is almost always the larger (pos- terior ligaments of the bladder). Below the point where the peritoneum ceases to cover it, the rectum is connected to surrounding parts by areolar tissue, which is mostly loaded with fat. In this way it is attached behind to the front of the sacrum and the coccyx, and at the sides to the coccygei and levatores ani muscles. In front, it is in immediate connection with a trian- gular portion of the base of the bladder (fig. 272, v); on each side of this, with the vesiculae seminales ; and farther forwards, with the under surface of the prostate (p). Below the prostate, where the rectum turns downwards to reach the anus, it becomes invested by the fibres of the internal sphincter, and embraced by the levatores ani muscles, by which, as well as by the triangular ligament of the urethra, it is sup- ported. Lastly, at its termination it is surrounded by the external sphincter ani muscle. In the female, the lower portion of the rectum is firmly connected with the back of the vagina. For convenience of description the rectum is sometimes divided arbitrarily into three parts : the first or uppermost, about 3 4 inches long-, extending- to the centre of the 3rd sacral vertebra.: the middle part (3 inches) from this point to the tip of the coccyx ; whilst the lowermost, about an inch and a half long, curves back to the anus. Structure of the rectum.—The rectum differs in some respects from the rest of the large intestine, in the structure of both its muscular and its mucous coats. The muscular coat is very thick: the external or longitudinal fibres form a uniform layer around it, and cease near the lower end of the intestine; the internal or circular fibres, on the contrary, become more numerous in that situation, where they form what is named the internal sphincter muscle. The longitudinal fibres are paler than the circular