END-BULBS. 147 branching and inter junction of the fibrils above described as resulting from the division of the pale fibres or of the axis-cylinder of the white fibres. The meshes of the net may be at first wider, and the threads, or bundles of threads, larger, but from these, finer filaments forming closer reticulations proceed, and then sometimes the nuclei become less frequent, or disappear. Such networks are found in the skin, in various parts of the mucous membranes, in the cornea, and in various other parts : they will be most conveniently considered in the description of the organs to which they belong. B. Sensory terminal organs. Three varieties of these are now recognised, viz., end-bulbs, tactile-corpuscles, and Pacinian bodies. These have so far a common structure, that in all of them there is an inward part or core (InnenJcolben, Germ.) of soft, translucent substance ; an outer membranous capsule with pertaining corpuscles; and, finally, one or sometimes more nerve-fibres, pale and without dark contours, which pass into the core and apparently end with a free, usually somewhat swollen, or knobbed extremity. Thus agreeing in their internal and probably essential structure, the terminal organs differ chiefly, or at least most obviously, in their capsule, which, simple in the end-bulbs, becomes highly complicated in the Pacinian bodies ; and therefore in the further account of them it will be convenient to begin with the former, although the Pacinian bodies have been much longer known. End-bulbs.—Noticed incidentally by Kolliker, but first investigated and recognised as distinct organs by W. Krause, who named them Endlcolben. Their figure in man and apes is usually spheroidal (fig. 99), but oblong in some quadrupeds. They measure about a-jjoth of an inch in diameter, but may exceed this in length with a less breadth, when of an oval shape. They have a simple outer capsule of connective tissue, bearing nuclei, and within this a core of clear soft matter, in which specks resembling fat-granules become visible after exposure to a solution of soda. To an end-bulb there proceeds usually one, but some- times two, or even three dark-bordered nerve- fibres ; and sometimes an originally single fibre divides into two or three immediately before entering the corpuscle; or several branches of one fibre may each run into a separate end-bulb. The fibre or fibres pass into the core, lose their dark borders, and appear to end, when their ends can be traced, in a bulbous extremity or knob. The nerve- fibre, when about to enter the corpuscle, is often much coiled, and this may be the case too with its pale continuation within, which contributes greatly to obscure its actual termination. End-bulbs have been hitherto found in the conjunctiva over the sclerotic coat of the eye, and in the mucous membrane on the floor of the mouth, the lips, soft palate, and tongue, being in these last-mentioned situations lodged in papillae, l 2 Fig. 99. Fig. 99.—Three Nerve- end-bulbs prom the Human Conjunctiva, treated with acetic acid, magnified 300 diameters. 1. With two nerve-fibres forming coils within. 2. With one nerve-fibre and fat-gra- nules in the eore. 3. Of an oval figure ; termination of nerve distinct. Nuclei on the capsules of 1 and 2 (from Kolliker, after a drawing by Hidden).