G30 THE EAR. Vessels and nerves of the pinna.—The posterior auricular artery, a branch from the external carotid, is distributed chiefly on the posterior or inner surface, but sends small branches round and through the cartilage to ramify on the outer surface of the pinna. Besides this artery, the auricle receives others—the ante- rior auricular from the temporal in front, and a small artery from the occipital behind. The veins correspond much in their course with the arteries. They join the temporal vein, and their blood is returned therefore through the external jugular. The great auricular nerve, from the cervical plexus, supplies the greater part of the back of the auricle, and sends small filaments with the posterior auricular artery to the outer surface of the lobule and the part of the ear above it. The posterior auricular nerve derived from the facial, after communicating with the auricular oranch of the pneumocjastric, ramifies on the back of the ear and sup- plies the retrahent muscle. The upper muscles of the auricle receive their supply from the temporal hunches of the same nerve. The auriculotemporal branch of the third division of the fifth nerve gives filaments chiefly to the outer and ante- rior surface of the pinna. THE EXTEBNAL AUDITORY CANAL. The external auditory canal, meatus auditorius cxtemus (fig. 440), extends from the bottom of the concha (2) to the membrane of the tympanum (2'), and serves to convey the vibrations of sound to the middle chamber of the ear. The canal is about one inch and a quarter in length. In its inward course it is inclined somewhat forwards (fig. 444); and it presents likewise a distinct vertical curve (fig. 440), being directed at first somewhat up- wards, and afterwards turning over a convexity of the osseous part of its floor, and dipping downwards to its termina- tion,—a change of direction which must be borne in mind by the surgeon in in- troducing specula into the ear. The calibre of the passage is smallest about the middle. The outer opening is largest from above downwards, but the inner end of the tube is slightly widest in the transverse direction. At the inner ex- tremity the tube is terminated by the membrana tympani, which is placed obliquely, with the inferior margin in- clined towards the mesial plane; and thus, as shown in fig. 440, the floor of the meatus is longer than its roof. The meatus is composed of a tube partly cartilaginous and partly osseous, and is lined by a prolongation of the skin of the pinna. The cartilaginous part occupies some- what less than half the length of the passage. It is formed by the deep part of the cartilage of the pinna, already described. The osseous portion is a little longer and rather narrower than the cartilaginous part. At its inner end it Fig. 444. Fig. 444.—View of the Lower Half of the Auricle and Meatus in the Left Ear divided by a Horizontal Section (after Sommerring). 1 and 2, cut surfaces of the bony- part of the meatus ; 3, cut surface of the cartilage of the pinna; 4, external meatus with the openings of nume- rous ceruminous glands indicated ; 5, lobule ; 6, membrane of the tympanum ; 7, dura mater lining of the skull.