STRUCTURE OF THE PINtfA. 620 Fig. 442. Fig. 443. Fig. 442.—Cartilage op the assist in attaching it to the side of the head. The anterior ligament, broad and strong, extends from the process of the helix to the root of the zygoma. The posterior ligament fixes the back of the auricle (opposite the concha) to the outer surface of the mastoid process of the temporal bone. A few fibres attach the tragus also to the root of the zygoma. Ligamentous fibres are likewise placed across the fissures and intervals left in the cartilage. Of the muscles of the pinna, those which are attached by one end to the side of the head, and move the pinna as a whole, have been already described (vol. i.): there remain to be examined several smaller mus- cles, composed of thin layers of pale-looking fibres, which extend from one part of the pinna to another, and may be named the special muscles of the organ. Six such small muscles are distinguished ; four being placed on the outer and two on the inner or deep surface of the pinna. The smaller muscle of the helix (fig. 442, 1) is a small bundle of ob- lique fibres, lying over, and firmly attached to, that portion of the helix which springs from the bottom of the concha. The greater muscle of the helix (fig. 442, 2) lies vertically along the anterior margin of the pinna. By its lower end it is attached to the process of the helix ; and above, its fibres terminate opposite the point at which the ridge of the helix turns backwards. The muscle of the tragus (fig. 442, 3) is a flat bundle of short fibres covering the outer surface of the tragus: its direction is nearly vertical. The muscle of the antitragus (fig. 442, 4) is placed obliquely over the antitragus and behind the lower part of the antihelix. It is fixed at Pinna exposed, with the Muscles on its Outer Sur- face. 1, mu sculus helicis minor; 2, m. helicis major ; 3, tra- giens ; 4, antitragiens. Fig. 443.—Inner Surface op the Cartilage op the Pinna with the Small Muscles attached. 5, transversns anricnlre muscle ; 6, obliqnns anricnla? muscle. one end to the antitragus, from which point its fibres ascend to be inserted into the tail-like extremity of the helix, above and behind the lobule. The transverse muscle (fig. 443, 5) lies on the inner or cranial surface of the pinna, and consists of radiating fibres which extend from the back of the concha to the prominence which corresponds with the groove of the helix. The oblique muscle (Tod) (fig. 443, 6) consists of a few fibres stretching from the back of the concha to the convexity directly above it, across the back of the inferior branch of the antihelix, and near the fibres of the transverse muscle.