NERVOUS TISSUE. 126 tbeless, with that organ in their elementary structure, and to a certain extent also in their relation to the nervous fibres with which they are connected ; and this correspondence becomes even more apparent in the nervous system of the lower members of the animal series. The nerves are divided into the cerebrospinal, and the sympathetic or ganglionic nerves. The former are distributed principally to the skin, the organs of the senses, and other parts endowed with manifest sensi- bility, and to muscles placed more or less under the control of the will. They are attached in pairs to the cerebro-spinal axis, and like the parts which they supply are, with few exceptions, remarkably symmetrical on the two sides of the body. The sympathetic or ganglionic nerves, on the other hand, are destined chiefly for the viscera and blood-vessels, of which the motions are involuntary, and the natural sensibility is obtuse. They differ also from the cerebro-spinal nerves in having generally a greyish or reddish colour, in their less symmetrical arrangement, and especially in the circumstance that the ganglia connected with them are much more numerous and more generally distributed. Branches of communication pass from the spinal and several of the cerebral nerves at a short distance from their roots, to join the sympathetic, and in these communications the two systems of nerves mutually give and receive nervous fibres ; so that parts supplied by the sympathetic may be also in nervous connection with the cerebro-spinal centre. The nervous system is made up of a substance proper and peculiar to it, with inclosing membranes, nutrient blood-vessels and supporting connective tissue. The nervous substance has been long distinguished into two kinds, obviously differing from each other in colour, and there- fore named the white, and the grey or cineritious. STRUCTURAL ELEMENTS. When subjected to the microscope, the nervous substance is seen to consist of two different structural elements, viz., fibres and cells. The fibres are found universally in the nervous cords, and they also consti- tute the greater part of the nervous centres : the cells on the other hand are confined in a great measure to the cerebro-spinal centre and the ganglia, and do not exist generally in the nerves properly so called, although they have been found at the terminations of some of the nerves of special sense, and also interposed here and there among the fibres of particular nerves ; they are contained in the grey portion of the brain, spinal cord, and ganglia, which grey substance is in fact made up of these cells intermixed in many parts with fibres, and with a variable quantity of supporting connective substance. The fibres are of two kinds : 1, the white, medullated, tubular, or dark bordered, and 2, the grey, pale, or non-medullated. The former are by far the most abundant; the latter are found principally in the sympa- thetic nerve, but exist also in the cerebro-spinal nerves. The White or Medullated Fibres (fig. 81). —These form the white part of the brain, spinal cord, and nerves. When collected in considerable numbers and seen with reflected light, the mass which they form is white and opaque. Viewed singly, or few together, under the microscope, with transmitted light, they are transparent; and if quite fresh from a newly killed animal, and unchanged by cold or exposure, they appear as if entirely homogeneous in substance, and are