412 THE KIDNEYS. of a dog from the aorta after the renal arteries had been tied. Within the glomerulus the afferent artery fig. 297, (af) breaks up into con- voluted capillary branches, which are gathered together again to form the efferent vessel (ef). The efferent vessel is so far comparable with the vena porta? of the liver that it breaks up again into capillaries, which form a close honeycomb network surounding the convoluted tubules (fig. 295, e'), and a less copious network with elongated meshes round the straight tubes of the cortical substance. Within the medullary Fig. 298. — Longitu- dinal Section of a Part of the medul- lary Substance and the adjacent Cor- tical Substance of the Kidney, show- ing THE BLOOD-VES- SELS injected (from Southey). The figure is design- ed principally to show the origin of the vasa recta. A A, ascending arteries divided longi- tudinally ; A a, trans- verse section of anasto- motic arch ; C V, cor- tical veins ; m, glome- ruli ; R R, arterae rectse; MY, R medullary veins. substance are found numbers of straight vessels, vasa recta, which lie between the ur- iniferous tubes, and, at the bases of the Malpighian pyramids, are ar- ranged in bundles extending inwards from between the pyramids of Ferrein. These vessels partly break up into capillaries, from which returning veins arise, and partly form loops similar to those of the looped tubules of Henle. The vasa recta take origin partly from the vasa efferentia from the innermost glomeruli (fig. 296, ar'; fig. 297, partly from the renal arteries without intervention of the glomeruli <fig. 296, ar). Small veins, arising by numerous venous radicles from the capillary network of the kidney, are seen near the surface of the gland, and collect the blood from the capillary plexus around the convoluted tubules which mainly compose this part. These vessels, some of which have a stellate arrangement (stclhilce, Verheyen, fig. 296, vs), are joined by numerous branches from the fibrous coat of the kidney, and, passing through the cortical substance, end in larger veins, which again unite into arches around the bases of the pyramids of Malpighi. The arches receive the interlobular veins (fig. 296, vi) which accompany the inter-