SEROUS MEMBRANES. 198 be brought into view by treatment with nitrate of silver. The lines of junction of the cells which are thus made evident, may be straight and even, but are most commonly slightly jagged or sinuous. Here and there between the cells apertures are to be seen, which are of two* kinds. The smaller of these, which are also the more numerous, are occupied by processes which are sent up to the surface of the mem- brane from deeper lying cells (pseudostomata, fig. 132) : the larger, on the other hand, the stomata, are true apertures, which are surrounded by a ring of small cubical cells (fig. 127 s, s', page 189), and open into a subjacent lymphatic vessel, either directly or by the medium of a short canal lined with similar cells, as already mentioned in treating of lymphatics. The surface cells of the serous membrane are not everywhere uniform in size (see figs. 127 and 132), but patches are here and there met with in which they are smaller and more granular in appearance. It is not unfrequent also to find evidences of prolifera- tion, especially in the neighbourhood of the stomata and pseudostomata., cells being met with containing two or even many nuclei (Klein). The substance of the membrane underneath the epithelioid layer is composed of a connective tissue ground substance in which are a variable amount of fibres, both white and elastic ; the former, when there are two or more strata, take a different direction in the different planes ; the latter unite into a network, and, in many serous mem- branes, as remarked by Henle, are principally collected into a reticular layer near the surface. The ground substance contains the blood- vessels and lymphatics of the membrane, as well as a large number of flattened connective tissue corpuscles with their corresponding cell- spaces (fig. 133), which are often collected into epithelioid patches. In parts of the membrane in which these corpuscles are more thinly scattered, they possess branching processes, some of which intercom- municate with those of neighbouring cells, whilst others, as before said, pass up to the surface of the membrane (pseudostomata), and others again, become connected to the walls of the lymphatics and blood- vessels (see fig. 126, p. 187). Blood-vessels ending in a capillary network with comparatively wide meshes pervade the subserous tissue and the tissue of the serous membrane. The lymphatics of the serous membranes are exceedingly abundant. Their relation both to the cell-spaces of the tissue and to the surface of the membrane, as well as their general arrangement, has been already noticed (pp. 186—191). They are sometimes met with ensheath- ing the blood-vessels. Nodules occur here and there in the substance of the serous mem- branes which consist of a close network of branched connective tissue- cells amongst which are a number of lymphoid cells or leucocytes, similar to the pale corpuscles of the blood. These nodules, the larger of which have a rich supply of blood-vessels, are developed in connection with the lymphatics, being formed either around those vessels, or actually within them, in which case the cells forming the walls of the lymphatic vessel exhibit processes which project into the interior and join with the enclosed retiform tissue. The cells of this tissue are in fact developed by a proliferation of the flattened cells of the lymphatic, which is of course considerably enlarged at these spots. These lymphatic nodules (peri and endo-lymphangial nodules of Klein)