292 THE LARYNX. their fibres are partly attached to the upper and outer part of the opposite cartilage, partly pass forwards in the aryteno-epiglotticlean fold, and partly join the fibres of the thyro-arytenoid muscle. A few "fibres associated with the anterior and upper part of the thyro-arytenoid muscle have been described as a thyro-epiglottidcan muscle. Actions of the intrinsic muscles of the larynx.—The crico-thyroid muscles produce the rotation forwards and downwards of the thyroid cartilage on the cricoid, which is permitted by the crico-thyroid articulations (fig. 197). In this Fig. 197. Fig. 197.—Outline of the Right Hale of the Cartilages of the Larynx as seen from the inside, with the thyro- ARYTENOID Ligament, to illustrate the Action of the Crico-Thyroid Muscle (Allen Thomson). t, cut surface of the thyroid cartilage in the middle anteriorly ; c, c, the same of the cricoid cartilage before and behind ; a, the inner surface of the right arytenoid carti- lage ; a', its anterior process ; s, the right cartilage of Santorini ; c r, the thyro-ary- tenoid ligament ; the position of the lower cornu of the thyroid cartilage on the out- side of the cricoid is indicated by a dotted outline, and r indicates the point or axis of rotation of the one cartilage on the other ; c t h, indicates a line in the principal direc- tion of action of the crico-thyroid muscle ; c a p, the same of the posterior crico- arytenoid muscle ; the clotted line, of which i! indicates a part, represents the position into which the thyroid cartilage is moved by the action of the crico-thyroid muscle ; if the arytenoid cartilages are fixed by muscles acting in the direction of cap, the vocal cords will be elongated and rendered tense by contraction of the crico- thyroid muscles, as indicated by c v'. movement the arytenoid cartilages, being attached to the cricoid cartilage at a level considerably above the axis of rotation, have their distance from the fore- part of the thyroid cartilage increased, and, in this way, the crico-thyroid muscles increase the tension of the vocal cords. The thyro-arytenoid, muscles are, in their lower parts, the opponents of the crico-thyroid, raising the fore part of the thyroid cartilage and decreasing the tension of the vocal cords ; the upper parts of these muscles, being attached higher up on the arytenoid cartilages, depress them. The lateral crico-arytenoid muscles, by pulling forwards the outer angles of the arytenoid cartilages, approximate the vocal cords to the middle line. The posterior crico-arytenoid muscles pull backwards the outer angles of the arytenoid cartilages, and thus draw asunder the posterior extremities of the vocal cords, and dilate the glottis to its greatest extent ; they are likewise the elevators of the arytenoid cartilages. The arytenoid muscle draws the arytenoid cartilages together, and, from the structure of the crico-arytenoid joints, this approximation when complete is necessarily accompanied with depression. The aryteno-epiglottidean muscles at once depress and approximate the arytenoid cartilages, which they include in their embrace, and draw down the epiglottis, so as to contract the whole superior aperture of the larynx