762 DEVELOPMENT OF THE ORGANS OF SEXSE. connecting them with the spinal nerves; while the great sympathetic itself consisted at first of a chain of rounded masses representing the ganglia, connected together, but so closely set that scarcely any inter- vening nervous cord was at first perceptible. He also observed the separate formation in the mesentery of birds of the large visceral nerve which he discovered in these animals. The gangliated cord of the sympathetic has been described and figured by Kolliker in the human foetus of eight or ten lines long. The peripheral sympathetic nerves are also formed at a very early period, and are perceptible in a foetus of three months. In the hinder part of the abdomen their origin appears to be intimately connected in some way with the formation of the suprarenal bodies. DEVELOPMENT OP THE EYE. The embryonic structures forming the eyeball and its contents may be considered as proceeding from three sources, viz., 1st, by evolution or expansion from the medullary wall of the first encephalic vesicle (thalamencephalon), giving rise to the retina, in its nervous and pig- mental structure and optic nerve; 2nd, by.in volution or depression and development of a part of the cuticular epiblast, forming the foundation of the lens and the epithelium of the conjunctiva; and 3rd, by the intrusion of mesoblastic elements between and around the other parts, so as to furnish the materials out of which are formed the general coverings of the eyeball, cornea and sclerotic, the fibrous and vascular choroid, the ciliary apparatus and iris, the capsule of the lens and the capsulo-pupillary membrane, the vitreous humour, and all the fibrous and vascular parts of the organ. The very early formation of the primary optic vesicles by the expan- sion of the lower and anterior parts of the wall of the anterior primary encephalic vesicle has already been described, and the manner in which each of these vesicles forms a hollow pediculated chamber communi- cating by its stalk with the general ventricular cavity of the primitive brain. The first important change which the primary optic vesicles undergo is connected with the depression of the rudimentary lens from Fig. 562. Fig. 562.—Section of the Head through the Primitive Optic Capsule of one side in an Embryo-Calf of 9 mm. long, magnified (from Julius Arnold). To the right is seen the optic capsule with its contracted pedicle and its outer wall depressed by the thickening of the corneous layer which forms the commencement of the forma- tion of the lens. The optic stalk is in communication with the thalamencephalon. Mesoblast is seen between the optic capsule and the lens rudiment. without, and consists in a doubling back or in- wards of the medullary wall of each vesicle, so as to form a depression or cup at its lower and anterior part, into which the commencing lens in part sinks. This depression has been called the secondary optic vesicle, or the optic cup (Foster and Balfour). From a very early period the outer fold of this cup under- goes a much greater thickening by the rapid development of its