10 SUBSTANCE COMPOSING- THE CELL. The formation of cells by segmentation may be traced with comparative ease in the ova of many invertebrata. The accompanying figure (fig. 6) represents the several stages of the process in small species of the ascaris worm. A, b, and c are from the Ascaris nigrovenosa, as observed by Kolliker. He found that, after the germinal vesicle had disappeared, a new nucleus with nucleolus was formed in its place : the segmentation then goes on as in the mammalian ovum, but the nuclei are visible from the first. In many animals the segmentation process affects only a part of the contents, of the ovum. Fig. 6.—Division of the Yelk op Ascaris. a, b, c (from Kolliker), ovum of Ascaris nigrovenosa ; d and e, that of Ascaris acuminata (from Bagge). The Protoplasm of tlie Cell. — The substance of which the embryonic cells, and all others which display similar vital contractility, chiefly consist, is in reality clear and hyaline, but commonly contains minute particles imbedded in the clear substance, which give it a granular appearance (fig. 4, V). It is semi-fluid and viscid in con- sistence, and in chemical constitution closely agrees with the albumi- noid bodies, consisting, in fact, principally of a substance allied to myosin, the chief constituent of muscular tissue ; but in many animal cells it doubtless also includes other organic principles, especially fat, and glycogenous or amyloid matter. Protoplasm is characterised by properties which have been aptly termed " vital," since upon their presence the life of the organism seems to depend. Chief among these properties are those of assimilation and of irritability: indeed, it is probable that the vital properties of the textures above enumerated depend, in great measure or wholly, upon the protoplasm which they contain. The Nucleus of the Cell.—The nucleus (fig. 4, c) is a round or ovoid, clear, and apparently vesicular body, commonly situate near the centre of the cell, and containing one or two strongly refracting granules—the nucleoli—which are probably of a fatty nature. From the affinity which, in common with protoplasm, it possesses for certain colouring matters, the nucleus has been supposed by some eminent histologists (and notably by Beale, who has applied the term " germinal matter " to both) to be identical in nature with that substance. Its behaviour, however, with many reagents is altogether different; and in general it may be said that it offers greater resistance to their action than the substance which surrounds it. The fact that in the division of cells the segmentation of the nucleus appears to precede that of the protoplasm, has been held to be a strong argument in favour of the possession by the nucleus of a considerable amount of vital activity, but it is impossible to say whether this process may not be effected by means of the surrounding proto- plasm. At all events there are, it is believed, no recent observations which would tend to show the manifestation by the nucleus of any vital phenomena, unless when associated with protoplasm, whereas the converse fact is well established. Fig. 6.