FARTHER DEVELOPMENT OF THE ENCEPHALON. 759 their interior behind, below, and at the sides, the thalami become solid, and at the same time a cleft or fissure appears between them above, and penetrates down to the internal cavity, which continues open at the back part opposite the entrance of the Sylvian aqueduct. This cleft or fissure is the third ventricle. Behind, the two thalami continue united by the posterior commissure, which is distinguishable about the end of the third month, and also by the 'peduncles of the pineal gland. The soft commissure probably exists from an early period, although it could not be detected by Tiedemann until the ninth month. At an early period the optic tracts may be recognised as hollow prolongations from the outer part of the wall of the thalami while they are still vesicular. At the fourth month these tracts are distinctly formed. They subsequently are pro- longed backwards into connection with the corpora quadrigemina. Prosencephalon.—Each hemisphere-vesicle becomes divisible into two parts : one of these is the part which from the interior appears as the corpus striatum, and from the exterior as the island of Reil, or central lobe ; the other forms the expanded or covering portion of the hemisphere, and is designated by Reichert the mantle. The aperture existing at the constricted neck of the hemisphere- vesicle, Schmidt and Reichert have recognised as the foramen of Monro. The corpora striata, it will be observed, have a different origin from the optic thalami; for, while the latter are formed by thickening of the circumferential wall of a part of the first cerebral vesicle, and thus correspond in then origin with all the parts of the encephalon behind them, which are likewise derived from portions of the cerebro-spinal tube, the corpora striata appear as thicken- ings of the floor of the hemisphere-vesicles, which are lateral off-shoots from the original cerebro-spinal tube. On this account, Reichert considers the brain primarily divisible into the stem, which comprises the whole encephalon forwards to the tamia semicircularis, and the hemisphere-vesicles, which include the corpora striata and hemispheres. Fig. 561.—View of the Inner Fig. 561. Surface of the Right Half of the f(etal brain of about six months (from Reichert). F, frontal lobe ; P, parietal ; 0, occipital ; T, temporal ; I, olfactory bulb ; II, right optic nerve ; f p, fronto-parietal fis- sure ; p, vertical fissure ; p', internal vertical fissure ; h, hip- pocampal fissure; g, gyrus formi- catus ; c, c, corpus callosum : s, septum lucidum ; /, placed between the middle commissure and the foramen of Monro ; v, in the upper part of the third ventricle immediately be- low the velum interpositum and fornix ; v', in the back part of the third ventricle below the pineal gland, and pointing by a line to the aqueduct of Sylvius ; v",in the lower part of the third ventricle above the infundibulum ; r, recessus pinealis passing backwards from the tela choroidea ; p v,pons Varolii ; Ce, cerebellum. The cerebral hemispheres enlarging, and having their walls increased in thickness, form, during the fourth month (Tiedemann), two smooth shell-like lamellae, which include the cavities afterwards named the lateral ventricles, and the parts contained within them. Following out the subsequent changes affect- ing the exterior of the cerebral hemispheres, it is found that about the fourth month the first traces of some of the convolutions appear, the intermediate sulci commencing only as very slight depressions on the hitherto smooth surface. Though the hemispheres continue to grow quickly upwards and backwards, the convolutions at first become distinct by comparatively slow degrees ; but towards