THE OVARIES. 471 round constricted orifice, ostium aMominale, placed at the bottom of a sort of fissure leading from that fringe which is attached to the ovary. It is by this orifice that an ovum is received at the time of its liberation from the ovary, and is thence conveyed along the tube, which narrows very much towards its uterine extremity, and opens into the womb by a minute orifice, admitting only a fine bristle, and named ostium uteri- num. The canal becomes gradually larger towards its abdominal orifice, where it is again somewhat contracted : hence the term isthmus, given by Henle to the uterine half, and ampulla to the outer half of the Fallopian tube. A second smaller fimbriated opening not unfre- quently occurs at a short distance from the main one. Beneath the external or peritoneal coat the walls of the tube contain, besides areolar tissue, plain muscular fibres like those of the uterus, arranged in an external longitudinal and an internal circular layer. The mucous membrane lining the tubes is thrown into longitudinal plicae, which are broad and numerous in the wider part of the tube, and in the narrower part are broken up into very numerous arborescent processes: it is continuous, on the one hand, with the lining membrane of the uterus, and at the other end of the tube with the peritoneum ; presenting an example of the direct continuity of a mucous and serous membrane, and making the peritoneal cavity in the female an exception to the ordinary rule of serous cavities, i. e., of being perfectly closed. The epithelium in the interior of the Fallopian tube is, like that of the uterus, columnar and ciliated ; the inner surface of the fimbriae is also provided with cilia, and Henle has even detected ciliated epithelium on their outer or serous surface, but it here soon passes into the scaly epithelium of the peritoneal membrane. The mechanism by which the minute ovum, when it escapes from the ovary, is carried into the cavity of the uterus is not yet fully understood. Neither the vascular tur- gescence nor the muscular contractions, which may no doubt accompany the passage, appear to be the immediate agents, and it seems more probably due, in greatest part, if not entirely, to the ciliary movement which proceeds in a direction downwards in the tube from the fimbri- ated extremity. It does not appear that there are glands, as was at one time supposed, in the mucous membrane lining the Fallopian tubes. THE OVARIES. The ovaries (ovaria, testes muliebres), the productive organs corre- sponding more immediately to the bodies of the testicles of the male, are two somewhat flattened oval bodies, which are placed one on each side, with their long diameter nearly horizontally across the pelvis. They lie at the back of the broad ligament of the uterus, and are en- veloped by its posterior membranous layer. The weight of each ovary is from sixty to a hundred grains, and they usually measure about one inch and a half in length, three quarters of an inch in width, and nearly half an inch in thickness; but their size is variable, both according to the period of life and their state of greater or less functional activity. Each ovary is free on its two sides, also along its posterior border, which has a convex outline ; but it is attached to the broad ligament by its anterior border, which is straighter than the other, and along the line of its attachment it exhibits a deep groove or hilus by which the vessels and nerves enter. Its inner end is generally narrower than the outer, and