530 THE CEREBRUM. parieto occipital fissure, connects the superior occipital convolution with the superior parietal lobule, the second unites the middle occipital and angular convolution, the third often connects the same convolutions, and also with them the middle temporo-sphenoidal, and the fourth connects the inferior occipital with the middle or inferior temporo-sphenoidal convolution. Fissures.—The three occipital convolutions are separated by two- fissures, the superior and inferior occipital, of which the superior is often continuous with the intra-parietal. Its lower part may have a more or less vertical direction, and has then been termed the transverse- occipital. The Temporo-sphenoidal lobe (fig. 370, &c.) is bounded in front and above by the commencement and posterior limb of the fissure of Sylvius. Behind, it is continuous with the occipital lobe. Three nearly parallel convolutions can usually be distinguished; a superior bounding below the posterior limb of the Sylvian fissure, and con- tinuous behind with the angular convolution, a middle continuous with the angular gyrus, or middle occipital convolution, by the fourth annec- tant gyrus and an inferior continuous with the inferior occipital. These- convolutions are separated by two fissures, of which the superior, from its relation to the Sylvian fissure has been termed the parallel fissure. The inferior is commonly interrupted by a secondary gyrus connecting the middle and inferior convolutions. The Central Lobe, or Island of Beil (figs. 371, 10, 12 ; fig. 376, c), lies deeply within the fissure of Sylvius, being rarely visible except when the lips of that fissure are separated. It is a triangular eminence forming a sort of Delta between the two divisions of that fissure, and consists of about six short, straight convolutions (gyri operti) which Tadiate outwards from a point just external to the anterior perforated. Fig. 373. Fig. 373.—Convolutions op the Median and Tentorial Surfaces of Right Hemi- sphere. From a simply Convoluted European Brain. About \ Marg. c, marginal convolution; g. forn., gyrus fornicatus or convolution of the corpus callosum ; unc. c, uncinate convolution ; i. oc.-temp, c, inferior occipitotemporal convolution; d. c., dentate convolution ; /. Ro., depression corresponding to the upper extremity of the fissure of Rolando ; par.-oc. /., parieto-occipital fissure ; calc. /., cal- carine fissure; coll. /., collateral fissure ; d. /., dentate fissure ; t. h. tsenia hippocampL