526 CEREBRUM. across the lateral convex surface of the hemisphere. It commences above, behind the vertex, near the great longitudinal fissure, and passes downwards and forwards to end close behind, but above, the bifurcation of the fissure of Sylvius, into the posterior limb of which it has been seen, though very rarely, to open. Its position and direction are such that the fissures of the two sides, seen from above, form a V-shaped line, open in front. It is rarely interrupted in its course, and is very uniform in man and most of the primates. It appears early in development, about the fifth month. This fissure separates the frontal from the parietal lobe, and its position on the surface of the hemisphere varies with the degree of development of the frontal lobe. The parallel convolutions which it separates are named respectively the ascending or transverse frontal and ascending parietal convolutions. The Parietooccipital fissure, or perpendicular fissure (fig. 370, par. oc.f.), is best marked on the median surface of the hemisphere, where it appears as a deep cleft extending downwards and a little forwards from the margin of this surface to near the posterior extremity of the corpus callosum. On the convex surface it is continued transversely outwards for a variable distance, generally about an inch, as the external parieto- occipital fissure. This fissure is taken as the division between the parietal and occipital lobe. The size of its external portion depends (inversely) on the size of the convolution which curves round its outer extremity and connects the parietal with the occipital lobe. In conse- quence of the development in man of this and similar connecting convolutions, this fissure is much less marked in the human brain than in that of the higher apes. It appears about the fourth or fifth month. Outer Surface of the Hemispheres.—Lobes.—These are deter- mined chiefly by fissures on the outer, which are for the most part absent on the median surface. It is convenient therefore to consider them in relation to the outer surface only, and subsequently to describe the median surface as a whole. The Frontal Lobe (fig. 370) is the anterior portion of the brain in front of the fissure of Sylvius at the base, and of the fissure of Rolando on the outer side. On the median surface there is no corre- snonding demarcation. The inferior surface of the frontal lobe, which is in contact with the orbital plate, is called the orbital surface; the upper arched aspect is the frontal surface. frontal surface.—The convolutions are four in number, three antero- posterior, one above the other, and one transverse behind them. The ascending or transverse frontal convolution (asc. fr. c.) is placed in front of the fissure of Rolando, which it thus bounds. Below, it com- mences just above and behind the bifurcation of the fissure of Sylvius, and thence courses upwards and backwards to the margin of the great longitudinal fissure. Commonly above, and almost invariably below, it is connected with the convolution (ascending parietal) behind the fissure of Rolando, and thus that fissure is isolated. The portion of the frontal surface anterior to this convolution is occupied by complex convolutions running more or less in an antero- posterior direction, and usually to be distinguished into three, an upper,' middle, and lower. These may or may not arise superficially from the ascending frontal convolution ; they are usually in their course con- nected one with another by secondary convolutions.