543 INTERNAL PARTS. The hippocampus minor is not peculiar to the human brain, but has been found hi the brains of quadrumana. In the human subject the posterior cornu varies greatly in size, and the hippocampus minor is still more variable in its development, being- sometimes scarcely to be recognised, and at others propor- tionally large. It is usually most developed where the posterior cornu is longest; but the length of the posterior cornu, and prominence of the hippocampus minor, are by no means in proportion to the dimensions of the hemisphere, but rather seem to be associated with thinness of both the medullary and the cortical •substance. The septum lucidum (fig. 378) is a thin translucent partition, placed between the two lateral ventricles. It extends vertically between the corpus callosum above, and the anterior part of the fornix below ; and, as the latter sinks clown in front away from the corpus callosum, the septum is deep before and narrow behind, in form somewhat resem- bling an obovate leaf. Anteriorly it lies in the hollow of the bend of the corpus callosum, in front of the fornix. The septum lucidum is double, being composed of two distinct laminae, having an interval between them, which contains fluid and is lined by an epitheliated membrane. This is the fifth ventricle, ventricle of the septum, or Sylvian ventricle. Each of the laminae of the septum which form the sides of the fifth ventricle, consists of a layer of white substance on the middle, and a layer of grey matter upon each surface. In the human embryo, and also in some animals, the cavity of this ventricle communicates with that of the third ventricle in front and below ; but in the adult human brain it forms a separate and insulated cavity. Tarin described a small fissure in it between the pillars of the fornix; but this is unusual. In disease it is sometimes distended with fluid. The fornix (fig. 379,/) is an arched band of white longitudinal fibres, which appears partly in the floor of both lateral ventricles. It consists of two lateral halves, which are separated from each other in front and behind, but between those points are joined together in the mesial plane. The two parts in front form the anterior pillars of the fornix ; the middle conjoined part is named the body; and the hind parts, which are again separated from each other, form the posterior pillars. The tody of the fornix is triangular in shape, being broad and flattened behind, where it is connected with the under surface of the corpus callosum, and narrower in front as it clips down to leave that body,—the space between them being filled up by the septum lucidum. Its lateral edges are in contact with the choroid plexuses, and its under surface rests upon the velum interpositum. The space beneath the velum interpositum, and between the two optic thalami, forms the third ventricle, to be afterwards described. The anterior crura or pillars of the fornix (fig. 383, e), cylindrical in form, descend, slightly apart from each other, through a quantity of grey matter on the sides of the third ventricle, between the corpora striata. Curving backwards as they descend, they reach the corpora albicantia. There each cms turns upon itself, making a twisted loop which forms the white portion of the corpus albicans of its own side, and ascends to enter the substance of the optic thalamus. These crura are con- nected with the peduncles of the pineal gland, and with the taenia -semicircularis, as will be afterwards described. VOL. II. N N