DEVELOPMENT OF THE TJllO-GENITAL ORGANS. 810 with the Wolffian bodies, consist in reality of two sets of tubular organs, of which one corresponds to the Wolffian bodies of the embryoes •of the amniota, while the other tubular body, already referred to as being of later formation and as connected with the main Wolffian duct, corresponds to the permanent kidneys of the higher animals. Balfour Fig. 606. Fig. 606. — Diagram of the Primitive Urogenital Or- gans in the Embryo previous to Sexual Distinction. The parts are shown chiefly in profile, but the Miillerian and Wolffian ducts are seen from the front. 3, ureter ; 4, urinary bladder ; 5, urachus ; ot, the ma*ss of blastema from which ovary or testicle is afterwards formed ; W, left Wolffian body ; x, part at the apex from which the coni vasculosi are after- wards developed; to, w, right and left Wolffian ducts ; m, m, right and left Miillerian ducts uniting together and with the Wolffian ducts in g c, the genital cord ; ug, sinus urogenitalis ; i, lower part of the intestine ; c I, common opening of the intestine and urogenital sinus ; cp, eleva- tion which becomes clitoris or penis ; Is, ridge from which the labia majora or scrotum are formed. lias also ascertained (Jour, of Anat. and Physiol., vol. x., 1875) that in the selachians both the ducts are found which exist in the amniota, viz., both the Wolffian and the Miillerian ducts, but that they arise in a somewhat different manner from that by which they are produced in birds and mammals, inasmuch as in the selachians the duct of Miiller arises by the formation of a septal partition which divides the original duct through a considerable part of its length into two canals : one of these, the Miillerian duct, is in communication with the pleuro-perito- neal cavity in front, and opens into the cloaca behind as a separate tube ; the other corresponding with the Wolffian, besides being the excretory duct of the primordial kidneys, becomes the vas deferens of the testicle. In the selachians, therefore, the permanent kidneys con- sist of two parts, of which one, the anterior, is homologous with the temporary kidneys or Wolffian bodies, while the other, or posterior part, corresponds with the permanent kidneys of birds and mammals. Balfour and Semper have made further the interesting discovery that the transverse tubes of the two parts of the primordial kidney of the lower animals correspond in number and position with the vertebral segments of the region of the embryo in which they are situated,—a fact of great interest in vertebrate morphology, and, according to the authors, leading also to important views of the morphological corre- spondence of the organs in question with similar organs in the anne-