VESSELS AND NERVES OF BONE. 93 in the compact substance. These are both arterial and venous, but according to Todd and Bowman, the two kinds of vessels occupy distinct passages ; and the veins, which are the larger, are said to present, at irregular intervals, pouch-like dilatations. Arteries, of larger size but fewer in number, proceed to the cancellated texture. In the long bones numerous apertures may be seen at the ends, near the articular surfaces ; some of these give passage to the arteries referred to, but the greater number, as well as the larger of them, are for the veins of the cancellated texture, which run separately from the arteries. Lastly, a considerable artery goes to the marrow in the central part of the bone; in the long bones this medullary artery, often, but impro- perly, called " the nutritious artery," passes into the medullary canal, near the middle of the shaft, by a hole running obliquely through the compact substance. The vessel, which is accompanied by one or two veins, then sends branches upwards and downwards to the marrow and medullary membrane in the central cavity and the adjoining Haversian canals ; from these branches capillaries pass radially towards the peri- phery. The comparatively narrow arterial capillaries pass suddenly into the wide venous ones, so that the current of blood must be considerably retarded both in these and in the large thin-walled veins. The blood con- tained in these is said to possess a large number of pale corpuscles, as well as transitions from these to the red. The ramifications of the me- dullary artery anastomose with the arteries of the compact and cancel- lated structure; indeed, there is a free communication between the finest branches of all the vessels which proceed to the bone, and there is no strictly defined limit between the parts supplied by each. In the thigh- bone there are two medullary arteries entering at different points. The veins of the cancellated texture are peculiar and deserve special notice. They are large and numerous, and run separately from the arteries. Their arrangement is best known in the bones of the skull, where, being lodged in the diploe or spongy texture between the outer and inner compact tables, they have received the name of the diploic veins. They run in canals formed in the cancellated structure, the sides of which are constructed of a thin lamella of bone, perforated here and there for the admission of branches from the adjoining' cancelli. The veins, being thus inclosed and supported by the hard structure, have exceedingly thin coats. They issue from the bone by special apertures of large size. A similar arrangement is seen in the bodies of the vertebrae, from whence the veins come out by large openings on the posterior surface. The lympliatics of the bones are but little known ; still, there is evidence of their existence, for, independently of the authority of Mas- cagni (who, however, does not state that he injected the vessels which he took for the lymphatics of bone), we have the testimony of Cruikshank, who injected lymphatics coming out of the body of one of the dorsal vertebrae, in the substance of which he also saw them ramifying/-' The lymphatics in the periosteum have been already noticed (p. 91). Fine nerves have been seen passing into the medullary canal of some of the long bones along with the artery, and following its ramifications, but their ultimate distribution is doubtful; and Kulliker describes fine * Anatomy of the Absorbing Vessels, 1790, p. 198.