CONCLUSION AS TO THE PLACENTA. 723 lie differs therefore from Sharpey in regarding- the crypts as of new formation and independent of the glands. He is thus led to the general conclusion that in no kinds of placenta do the uterine glands form an essential part Of the placental structure, and that the uterine crypts which receive the foetal processes are essentially interglandular in their origin. Nevertheless Turner recognises the existence in all placentas of uterine structural elements of a cellular nature, which he regards as descendants of the epithelial or subepithelial tissue of the uterine mucous membrane, and to which he attributes, as others have done, glandular functions in the preparation of the matter which' is absorbed as nourishment by the blood-vessels of the foetal villi. Further observations will be required to determine in how far these views admit of application to the structure of the fully formed human placenta. (See also Turner's Memoir on the Placentation of Seals. Trans. Eoy. Soc. of Edinburgh. Vol. xxvii., 1875.) With respect also to the relation of the uterine glands to the penetration of the decidua by the villi in the formation of the human placenta, further observations are still required. As previously stated, anatomists have failed to trace the villi into the dilated parts of the enlarged glands, and Kolliker after a careful examination of the whole subject, comes to the conclusion (Lectures, p. 162) that the villi in becoming involved in the decidua have no permanent connection with the glands. He affirms indeed that the glands soon shrink over the whole extent of the decidua, beginning to do so as early as in the second month of pregnancy, and have in great measure disappeared before the chorionic villi are fully connected with the uterine membrane. Reichert, however, in his recent description of an early human ovum affirms that commencing villi actually enter the mouths of uterine glands, and he has given a diagrammatic representation of the pro- longation of the tubes of the uterine glands through the decidua to the surface of the membrane, and the small marginal villi of the ovum as actually within terminal portions of the glands, the cavities of which have undergone some degree of ramification. Further observations will, however, be necessary for the confirmation of a statement so much at variance with the results of most other observers. General conclusion.—In recapitulation of the preceding description it may be stated that the human placenta is an organ which is formed by the combination of two different structural elements ; of which one is derived from the foetus or its membranes, and the other from the uterus. The foetal part consists of the developed vascular villi of the chorion, continues to grow and extend itself with the foetus during the whole of uterogestation, and is the seat of a complete circulation of the foetal blood through the capillary ramifications of the umbilical arteries, veins, and capillaries. The uterine element of the placenta originates in a part of the decidua, which is produced by increased growth and transformation of the lining membrane of the uterus and its blood-vessels. With the hypertrophied structure so produced the villi of ttfe foetal chorion at first interpenetrate, so that in the earlier stages of placental formation the uterine and foetal elements are for a time separable, and may still be distinguished from each other, at the period even when they have become more intimately united. But in the progress of development the uterine elements are so much modified, and finally so completely attenuated or removed, that they almost entirely disappear ; and as along with them the walls of the blood-vessels are either thinned out to the last degree, or are entirely absorbed, there remain only the vascular spaces through which the maternal blood flows. A doubt, however, may still exist as to whether these spaces are, or are not, entirely deprived of any uterine enclosure. The maternal blood is introduced into these spaces directly by the small coiled uterine arteries, without capillary intervention, and after