GANGLION-CELLS. 137 nerves; but they are generally reckoned as belonging to the sympathetic system. The ganglia differ widely from each other in figure and size : those which have been longest known to anatomists are most of them large and conspicuous objects; but by the researches of Eemak and others, it has been shown that there are numerous small, or what might be almost termed microscopic ganglia, disposed along the branches of nerves distributed to the tongue, the heart, the blood-vessels, the lungs, and some other viscera ; also connected with fine plexuses of nerves between the coats of the intestines. Ganglia are invested externally with a thin, but firm and closely adherent envelope, continuous with the fibrous sheath of the nerves, and composed of connective tissue : this outward covering sends pro- cesses inwards through the interior mass, dividing it, as it were into lobules, and supporting the numerous fine vessels which pervade it. A section carried through a gan- glion, in the direction of the nervous cords connected with it, discloses to the naked eye merely a collection of reddish-grey matter traversed by the white fibres of the nerves. The nervous cords on entering lay aside their investing sheath and spread out into smaller bundles, between which the grey gan- glionic substance is inter- posed ; and their fibres are gathered up again into cords, furnished with sheaths, on issuing from the ganglion. The microscope shows that this grey substance consists of nerve-cells and fibres with supporting connective tissue. The nerve-cells have mostly a round, oval, or pyriform figure. They are enclosed in capsules formed of a trans- parent membrane with nuclei (fig. 93,1), 94, 95): these cap- sules are apparently continu Fig. 93. Fig. 93.—Multi-Polar Ganglion Cells from: Sympathetic of Man (Max Schultze). Mag- nified. a, freed from capsule ; b, enclosed within cap- sule. The processes of both are broken off a short distance from the cell. ous with the primitive sheaths of the nerves (M. Schultze). Of the relation between the nerve-fibres in a ganglion and the ganglion-cells, it may be stated that many fibres pass through without being connected with the cells, but that every nerve-cell is connected with a fibre or with fibres. According to Beale, each cell is connected with, at least, two fibres, which, on reaching the nervous bundle in which they are distributed, - run in opposite directions (fig. 94). One of the fibres is straight, usually of tolerable size, and connected with the cell at one spot like a stalk—in pyriform cells at the small end. The other, usually smaller, begins or is attached at some distance