THE URINARY BLADDER. 419 THE URUSTAHY BLADDER. The urinary Madder (vesica urinaria) is a hollow membranous and muscular receptacle, which receives the urine poured into it through the ureters, retains it for a longer or shorter period, and finally expels it through the urethra. During infancy it is pyriform, and lies chiefly in the abdomen, but in the adult it is situated in the pelvic cavity behind the pubes, and in the male, in front of the rectum ; in the female, it is separated from the rectum by the uterus and vagina. Fig. 304. Fig. 304.—Lateral View of the Viscera of the Male Pelvis (R. Quain). \ The left os ilium lias been disarticulated from tlie sacrum, the spinous process of the ischium cut through, and the pubes divided to the left of the symphysis ; a, the bladder; b, V, the rectum ; c, membranous part of the urethra ; d, section of the left crus or corpus cavernosum ; e, bulb of the spongy body of the urethra ; /, Cowper's gland ; g, section of the body of the pubes ; h, sphincter ani muscle ; i, part of the left vas deferens ; m, articular surface of the sacrum ; n, divided spine of the ischium ; o, coccyx ; p, prostate gland ; r, r, peritoneum; /, recto-vesical pouch; u, left ureter; v, left vesica la seminalis. The size and shape of the bladder, its position in the abdomino-pelvic cavity, and its relations to surrounding parts, vary greatly, according to its state of distension or collapse. When empty, the bladder lies deeply in the pelvis, and in a vertical antero-posterior section pre- sents a triangular appearance, being flattened before and behind, having its base turned downwards and backwards, whilst its apex reaches up behind the symphysis pubis. The surfaces named anterior and pos- terior have thus a considerable inclination. When moderately full, it is still contained within the pelvic cavity, and has a rounded form (fig. 304, a), but when completely distended, it rises above the brim of the pelvis, and becomes egg-shaped; its larger end, which is called the base or inferior fundus, being directed towards the rectum in the male