98 BONE. Fig. 56. fibrous membrane or perichondrium, the future periosteum. Vessels ramify in this membrane, but none are seen in the cartilage until ossi- fication is about to begin. In a long bone the ossification commences in the middle and proceeds toward the ends, which remain long cartilaginous, as represented in fig. 56. At length separate points of ossification appear in them, and form epiphyses, which at last are joined to the body of the bone. The newly formed osseous tissue is red and ob- viously vascular, and blood-vessels extend a little way beyond it into the adjoining part of the carti- lage. In a long bone these precursory vessels are seen at either end of the ossified portion of the shaft, forming a red zone in that part of the carti- lage into which the ossification is advancing. The vessels are lodged in excavations or branching canals in the cartilage, (fig. 56, a) which also contains granular corpuscles (osteoblasts). Other vascular canals enter the cartilage from its outer surface, and conduct vessels into it directly from the peri- chondrium ; at least, this may be seen when the ossification approaches near to the ends of the bones. Baly observed that in a transverse section of the ossifying cartilage, its cells appear arranged in radiating lines round the sections of the vascular canals; * and it may also be here remarked that in many of these radiating groups the cells successively diminish in size towards the centre, that is, as they approach the canal. The canals which enter from the surface of the cartilage are probably formed by processes from the vascular subperichondrial tissue, which, excavating the canals by absorption, thus extend themselves through the mass of cartilage ; and as the perichondrium affords material for the growth of the cartilage at the surface, so these vascular processes probably yield matter for the multiplication of the cells in the interior of the mass. The canals which pass into the carti- lage from the ossified part are. in like manner, most pro- bably formed by processes of the subperiosteal tissue which pierce the bone and extend through the medullary cavities within it to the cartilage, into which they penetrate for a short way beyond the advancing limit of ossification. Fig. 56.—Humerus op a Fcetus, Na- tural size. The upper half is divided longitudin- ally, a, cartilage, b, bone, which termin- ates towards the car- tilage by a slightly convex surface. To examine the process more minutely, let an ossifying bone be divided lengthwise, as in fig. 56, and then from the surface of the sec- tion (as at a, ~b) take off a thin slice of cartilage, including a very little of the ossified part, and examine it with the microscope. Such a view, seen with a low power, is shown in fig. 57. The cartilage at a distance from the surface of the ossified part has its cells uniformly disseminated in the matrix, (as at a, where it appears in the figure as if granular,) but at and near to the limit where the ossification is encroaching upon it, the cells are gathered into rows or oblong groups, between which the transparent matrix appears in form of clear longitudinal lines (often obscurely striated) obliquely intersecting each other (b). Turning now * Miiller's Physiology, plate L, fig. 16.