THE STOMACH. 356 ramifying between the several coats and supplying them with blood (especially giving off numerous capillaries to the muscular coat) and after dividing into very small vessels in the submucous areolar tunic, the ultimate arterial branches (fig. 250, a) enter the mucous membrane, and ramifying freely, pass to its surface between the tubuli; here they form a plexus (d) of fine capillaries uj)on the walls of the tubules ; and from this plexus larger vessels pass into a coarser capillary network around the mouths of the glands and upon the hexagonal borders of the alveoli. The veins, fewer in number than the arteries, arise from the latter network, and take an almost straight course (c, o) through the mucous membrane between the glands. After piercing1 the muscularis mucosa? and forming a wide venous plexus in the submucous tissue, they return the residual blood into the splenic and superior mes- enteric veins, and also directly into the vena porta?. By the breaking up of the arteries into capillaries on the walls of the glands, these are furnished with pure blood for the elaboration of then* secretion : while it is the blood from which that secretion has been drawn which passes on to the capillaries of the free surface, and has added to it whatever materials may be taken into the circulation from the contents of the stomach. The lymphatics are very numerous. As shown by Loven * they arise in the mucous membrane (fig. 251) by a dense network of vessels, situate between and amongst the gland-tubuli, which, as well as the blood-vessels, hi many parts they enclose in sinus-like dilatations. Near the sur- face of the membrane they form loops or possess dilated extremities ; in all cases they appear to be less superficial than the blood-capillaries. At the deeper part of the mucous membrane they pass into a plexus of fine vessels (V), immediately underlying the tubular glands ; piercing then the muscularis mucosas (a), they form a coarser deeply-situated network (<?) in the submucous coat; the vessels proceeding from this network pierce the muscular coats, then follow the direction of the blood- vessels beneath the peritoneal investment, and traverse lymphatic glands found along the two curvatures of the stomach. The nerves, which are large, consist of the terminal branches of the two pneumo-gastric nerves, belonging to the cerebro-spinal system, and of offsets from the sympathetic system, derived from the solar plexus. The left pneumo-gastric nerve descends on the front, and the right upon the back of the stomach. Numerous small ganglia have been found by Eemak and others on both the pneumo-gastric and sympathetic twigs. The nerves form gangliated plexuses both between the layers of the muscular coat and in the submucous coat. Their ultimate ending has not been traced. The pylorus.—While there is no special apparatus at the cardiac orifice of the stomach for closing the passage from the oesophagus, the opening at the pyloric end, leading from the stomach into the duodenum, is provided with a sphincter muscle. On looking into the * Om lymfvagarna i magsackens slenihinna. Nord. Med. Arkiv, 1873. See also H. Watney, in Centr. f. d. Med. Wiss. 48, 1874. Pig. 250. — Plan of Blood- vessels of Stomach (from Brinton). a, small arteries passing up from submucosa to break up into the fine capillary network, d, be- tween the glands ; b, coarser capillary network around the mouths of the glands ; c, c, veins passing vertically downwards from the superficial network to join into larger trunks ; e, in the sxib- mucosa. (The arteries in the submucous coat do not anastomose so freely as here represented.)