552 THE CEREBRUM, brum, are attached to and embrace the under side of the corresponding- peduncles, and may be traced back to the thalami. Each tract is some- what cylindrical towards the optic commissure, where it is connected with a deposit of grey matter adjacent to the tuber cinereum. It be- comes flattened and broader as it approaches the thalamus, and makes a bend as it turns round the peduncle to reach the back part of that body. Near this bend, which is named the 7mee (genu), and to the outer side of the corpora quadrigemina, are placed two small oblong and flattened eminences connected with the posterior extremity of the optic tract. They are small masses of grey matter about the size and shape of coffee-beans, placed one on the outer and one on the inner side of the genu of the optic tract, and hence they are named respectively corpus geniculatum externum and internum. They send fibres into the optic tract and also into the thalamus of the same side. Other fibres go directly from the optic tract to the thalamus, passing between the outer corpus geniculatum and the cms cerebri, and others to the anterior corpora quadrigemina. The fibres of the optic tract are therefore derived from three sources, viz., the thalamus, the corpora quadrigemina, and the corpora geniculata. Beneath the tract as it passes over the eras is a band of fibres pass- ing in the same direction, called the " collar of the cms." They are connected behind with the optic thalamus, and in front with the tuber cinereum and inner part of the corpus striatum. The processus a cerebello ad cerebrum, superior peduncles of the cerebellum, are two large white cords extending downwards and somewhat outwards from the corpora quadrigemina to the fore part of the cerebellum, and connecting the latter with the cerebrum. They rest upon the crura cerebri, to which they are united, and between them is the valve of Vieussens. Some of their fibres decussate beneath the corpora quadrigemina. The valve of Vieussens (velum medullare anterius), (fig. 383) stretched between the processus a cerebello ad cerebrum, is a thin layer of nervous matter, which lies over the passage from the third to the fourth ventricle, and, lower down, covers in a part of the fourth ventricle itself. It is narrow in front, where it is connected with the quadrigeminal bodies, and broader behind, where it is continuous with the median portion of the cerebellum. The valve is composed of white substance, superficial in its upper portion, but concealed in its lower half by a few transverse ridges of grey matter, which appear as if prolonged from the grey lamellas of the cerebellum with which the valve is there continuous. Within it is some grey substance, which constitutes the nucleus of the roof of the fourth ventricle of Stilling, and is supposed to connect the two dentate nuclei. From between the posterior quadrigeminal tubercles a slight median ridge, named frenulum, descends a little way upon the valve; and on the sides of this the commencing fibres of the fourth pair of nerves pass transversely outwards. The back part of the valve is overlapped and concealed by the superior vermiform process of the cerebellum. Aqueduct of Sylvius.—Beneath the corpora quadrigemina a nar- row canal connects the third ventricle in front with the fourth ventricle behind. It varies in shape in different parts, being T-shaped behind,