4 GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS ON THE TEXTURES. into two classes—the crystalloid and the colloid—which differ in several important characters. Crystalloid bodies, of which water, most salts and acids, and sugar, may be taken as examples, have a disposition to assume a crystalline state ; then- solutions are usually sapid, diffluent, and free from viscosity ; they readily diffuse in liquids, and pass through moist organic membranes or artificial septa of organic matter, such as parchment-paper. Colloids, on the other hand, are characterised by low diffusibility and great indisposition to permeate organic septa, so that when they are associated with crystalloids, the latter may be easily separated by diffusion through a septum into another fluid ; i.e., by " dialysis." Colloids are, moreover, generally tasteless ; they have little or no tendency to crystallize, and their solution, when concentrated, is always, in a certain degree, viscous or gummy. Among the colloids may be reckoned hydrated silicic acid, and various hydrated metallic peroxides, also albumin, gelatin, starch, gum, and vegetable and animal extractive matters. Several substances may exist either in the colloid or the crystalloid condition. In point of chemical activity the crystalloid appears to be the more energetic, and the colloidal the more inert form of matter ; but the colloids possess an activity of their own, arising out of then: physical properties, and especially their penetrability, by which they become a medium for liquid diffusion, like water itself. Another characteristic is their tendency to change ; the solution of hydrated silicic acid, for instance, cannot be preserved ; after a time it congeals. In this respect a liquid colloid might be compared to liquid water at a temperature below freezing, or to a supersaturated saline solution. This dominant tendency of the particles of a colloid to cohere r aggregate, and contract, is obvious in the gradual thickening of the liquid and its conversion into a jelly ; and in the jelly itself the contraction still proceeds, causing separation of water, and division into a clot and serum. Their permea- bility to fluids, their ready capability of physical changes, and their comparative chemical inertness, are properties by which colloid bodies seem fitted to form organised structures, and to take part in the processes of the living economy. Graham further found that silicic acid may combine both in a dissolved and in a gelatinous state with a variety of very different fluids without tmdergoing alteration ; and presuming that the organic colloids are invested with similar wide powers of combination, he remarks that the capacity of a mass of gelatinous silicic acid to assume alcohol, or even olein, without disintegration or alteration of form, and to yield it up again in favour of some other substituted fluid, may perhaps afford a clue to the penetration of the colloid matter of animal membrane by fatty and other bodies insoluble in water; and moreover, that the existence of fluid compounds of silicic acid of a like nature, suggests the possibility of the formation of a compound of colloid albumen with olein, soluble also and capable of circulating with the blood.* The important relation which this chemical doctrine bears to the constitu- tion and organic processes of the animal body, has appeared to justify the introduction of the present notice of it; for further information the reader is referred to the sources already cited. VITAL PROPERTIES OP THE TEXTURES. Of the phenomena exhibited by living bodies, there are some which,, in the present state of knowledge, cannot be referred to the operation of any of the forces which manifest themselves in inorganic nature; they are therefore ascribed to certain powers, endowments, or properties, which so far as known, are peculiar to living bodies, and are accord- ingly named " vital properties." These vital properties are called into play by various stimuli, external and internal, physical, chemical, and mental; and the assemblage of actions thence resulting has been designated by the term " life." The words " life " and " vitality " are * On the Properties of Silicic Acid and other Analogous Colloidal Substances,—Pro- ceedings of the Royal Society, June 16th, 1864.