575 GLANDULiE PACCHIONI. fifth, the facial, and accessorius nerves ; and they have likewise been followed by Luschka. Cerebro-spinal fluid.—This is a very limpid serous fluid, which occupies the subarachnoid space. When collected immediately after death, its quantity was found by Magendie in the human subject to vary from two drachms to two ounces. It is slightly alkaline, and con- sists, according to an analysis by Lassaigne, of 08*5 parts of water, the remaining 1*5 per cent, being solid matter, animal and saline. In experiments made on the dog, it was found by Magendie to be repro- duced in thirty-six hours, after it had been drawn off by puncturing the membranes at the lower part of the cord. When pressure is made upon the brain, the quantity of fluid in the spinal subarachnoid space is increased, and conversely, it may be forced from the spinal cavity upwards into the cranium. Ligamentum denticulatum.—This is a narrow fibrous band which runs along each side of the spinal cord in the subarachnoid space, between the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves, commencing above at the foramen magnum, and reaching down to the lower pointed end of the cord (fig. 395, 12, and fig. 345). By its inner edge this band is connected with the pia mater of the cord, while its outer margin is widely denticulated ; its denticulations are attached by their points to the inner surface of the dura mater, and thus serve to support the cord along the sides, and to maintain it in the middle of the cavity. The first or highest denticulation is fixed opposite the margin of the foramen magnum, between the vertebral artery and the hypoglossal nerve; the others follow in order, alternating with the successive pairs of spinal nerves. In all, there are about twenty-two of these points of insertion. The denticulations in the lower cervical region are very long, and ascend slightly to their attachments. At the lower end, the ligamentum denticulatum may be regarded as continued into the terminal filament of the spinal cord, which thus connects it to the dura mater at the lower end of the sheath. The free edge, in the intervals between the denticulations, is slightly thickened, and, in the body, is closely applied to the inner surface of the arachnoid, with which it is often directly connected by fine trabecular The denticulations do not perforate the arachnoid but receive from it funnel-shaped sheaths, which accompany them to the inner surface of the dura mater. (Axel Key and Retzius, Max Schultze's Archiv. 1873). Structure.—It consists of white fibrous tissue, mixed with many ex- ceedingly fine elastic fibres which are seen on applying acetic acid. Several layers of fine connective tissue trabecules may be traced : they are surrounded by sheaths, which are composed of delicate nucleated cells, and here and there expand into membranes. It is continuous on the one hand with the fibrous tissue of the pia mater, and on the other with that of the dura mater. Glandulse Pacchioni.—Upon the external surface of the dura mater, in the vicinity of the longitudinal sinus, are seen numerous small pulpy looking elevations, generally collected into clusters, named glands of Pacchioni. The inner surface of the calvarium is marked by little pits, which receive these prominences. Similar excrescences are seen on the internal surface of the dura mater, and upon the pia mater on each side of the longitudinal sinus, and also projecting into the interior of that sinus. Occasionally they are found also in other situations. VOL. II. p P