MALE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS. 430 hollow on each side of the colliculus seminalis. (Adams, Cyclop, of Anat. vol. iv., p. 147.) Vessels and Nerves.—The prostate is supplied by branches of the vesical, hemorrhoidal, and puclic arteries. Its veins form a plexus embedded in the fibrous covering round the sides and base of the gland, which is highly developed in old subjects. These veins communicate in front with the dorsal vein of the penis, and behind with branches of the internal iliac vein. According to Adams, the lymphatics, like the veins, are seen ramifying between the two layers of the fibrous capsule. The nerves, which are derived from the hypogastric plexus, consist of both medullated and non-medullated fibres, and are interspersed with single or small heaps of ganglionic cells. Pacinian bodies have also been observed on the superficial nerves. (Klein in Strieker's Hand- buch.) Prostatic fluid.—This is mixed with the seminal fluid during emission ; as obtained from the human prostate soon after death, it has a milky aspect, which is ascribed by Adams to the admixture of a large number of epithelial cells, and he thinks it probable that, as discharged during life, it is more transparent. According to the same observer, the prostatic fluid has an acid reaction, and presents, under the microscope, numerous molecules, epithelial particles both squamous and columnar, and granular nuclei about inch in diameter. As age advances, when this gland is disposed to become enlarged, its ducts often contain small round concretions of laminated appearance, and varying from a small size up to that of a millet seed; they sometimes contain carbonate of lime, but are principally composed of animal matter, which in some of them appears to be entirely amylaceous, in others albuminous, and more frequently is of a mixed character. (Virchow's Cellular Pathology, by Chance, p. 369.) THE PENIS. The penis, which supports the greater part of the urethra in the male, is composed principally of an erectile tissue, arranged in three long somewhat cylindrical masses, which are enclosed in fibrous sheaths, and are united together so as to form a three-sided prism which receives a covering from the general integument. Of these masses, two, named corpora cavernosa penis, placed side by side, form the principal part of the organ, whilst the other, situated beneath the two preceding, sur- rounds the canal of the urethra, and is named corpus cavemosum urethral or corpus spongiosum. The penis is attached at its root to the symphysis of the pubes, and to the pubic arch ; in front it ends in an enlargement named the glans, which is structurally similar to and continuous with the corpus spongi- osum. The intermediate portion or body of the penis, owing to the manner in which its three component parts are united together, has three somewhat flattened sides and three rounded borders : the upper and anterior side is named the dorsum. The glans penis, which is slightly compressed above and below, presents at its extremity a vertical fissure forming the external orifice of the urethra; its base, which is wider than the body of the penis, is hollowed out to receive the narrowing extremities of the corpora cavernosa; its border is rounded and projecting, and is named the corona glandis, behind which is a constriction of the penis named the cervix. The median fold of integument attaching the glans below the urethral orifice to the inferior border of the penis is named the fmnum of the prepuce.