ORIGIN OF NERVES. cause a prominence on the surface. At the point of the calamus scrip- torius the nuclei are in contact at the middle line, but a little higher up are separated by the hypoglossal nuclei. The spinal accessory nerve arises by a long series of roots, the upper of which are attached to the side of the medulla, below those of the pneumogastric, while the remainder arise from the cervical portion of the spinal cord, as low down as the sixth or seventh pair of nerves. The upper roots pass inwards to a nucleus which lies on each side at the back of, and close to, the central canal, and is continuous, above, with the nucleus of the pneumogastric nerve. The lower roots pass through the lateral columns of the cord to the grey substance and curve forwards into the anterior cornu. The hypoglossal nerve arises by a series of fine roots attached to the furrow between the anterior pyramid and the olivary body. They pass backwards, through the inner part of the olivary body, to reach their nucleus, a long column of nerve cells, the lower part of which lies in front of the central canal on each side, and, higher up, comes forward to form a prominence on the floor of the fourth ventricle, close to the middle line. THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN AND SPINAL CORD. The cerebro-spinal axis is protected by three membranes, named also meninges. They are :—1. An external fibrous membrane, named the dura mater, which closely lines the interior of the skull, and forms a loose sheath in the spinal canal; 2. An internal areolo-vascular tunic, the ])m mater, which accurately covers the brain and spinal cord ; and 3. An intermediate membrane, the arachnoid, which lies over the pia mater, the two being in some places in close connection, in others separated by a considerable space. THE DURA MATER. _ The dura mater is a very strong dense inelastic fibrous tunic of con- siderable thickness. Its inner surface, turned towards the brain and spinal cord, is smooth and lined with epithelium, which has been generally regarded as constituting a parietal reflection of the arachnoid membrane. The space between the dura mater and arachnoid, formerly in like manner regarded as the sac of the arachnoid, has been conve- niently termed the subdural space. The outer surface of the dura mater is connected with the surrounding parts, in a somewhat different manner in the cranium and in the spinal canal. In the cranium it adheres to the inner surface of the bones, and forms their internal periosteum. The connection between the two depends, in a great measure, on blood-vessels and small fibrous pro- cesses, which pass from one to the other ; and the dura mater, when detached and allowed, to float in water, presents a flocculent appearance on its outer surface, in consequence of the torn parts projecting from it. The adhesion between the membrane and the bone is more intimate opposite the sutures, and also at the base of the skull, which is uneven, and perforated by numerous foramina, through which the dura mater is prolonged to the outer surface, being there continuous with the peri- cranium. The fibrous tissue of the dura mater becomes blended with the areolar sheath of the nerves at the foramina which give exit to them.