BLOOD-VESSELS. 166 the velocity, by increasing the extent of surface over which the blood moves, and consequently the amount of impediment from friction; still it does not satisfactorily appear why such an end should be provided for in the several cases in which arteries are known to follow a tortuous course. The same remark applies to the peculiar arrange- ment of vessels named a " rete mirabile," where an artery suddenly divides into small anastomosing branches, which in many cases unite again to reconstruct and continue the trunk. Of such retia mirabilia there are many examples in the lower animals, but, as already remarked, the purpose which they serve is not apparent. The best known instance is that named the rete mirabile of Galen, which is formed by the intra- cranial part of the internal carotid artery of the sheep and several other quadrupeds. Physical Properties.—Arteries possess considerable strength and a very high degree of elasticity, being extensible and retractile both in their length and their width. When cut across, they present, although empty, an open orifice ; the veins, on the other hand, collapse, unless when prevented by connection with surrounding rigid parts. Structure.—In most parts of the body the arteries are inclosed in a sheath formed of connective tissue, and their outer coat is connected to the sheath by filaments of the same tissue, but so loosely that, when the vessel is cut across, its ends readily shrink some way within the sheath. The sheath may inclose other parts along with the artery, as in the case of that enveloping the carotid artery, which also includes the internal jugular vein and pneumo-gastric nerve. Some arteries want sheaths, as those for example which are situated within the cavity of the cranium. Independently of this sheath, arteries (except those of minute size whose structure will be afterwards described with that of the capillaries) Fig. 107. Fig. 107.—Transverse Vertical Section of Posterior Tibial Artery (Man). 75 Diameters. a, Epithelioid and Subepithelial layers of inner coat ; b, elastic layer of inner coat, appearing as a bright line in section ; c, muscular layer (middle coat) ; d, outer coat, con- sisting of connective tissue bundles, which become more loosely arranged toward the exterior. In the interstices (seen as white spaces) of the bundles are some connective tissue nuclei, and, especially near the muscular coat, a number of fine elastic fibres cut across.