601 THE IRIS. retina, where its meshes become larger, and join those of the ciliary processes. On the inner surface of the tunica Ruyschiana is a structureless or finely fibrillated transparent membrane, the membrane of Brack, which lies next to the pigmentary layer of the retina, and anteriorly, in the region of the ciliary processes, presents on its inner surface numerous microscopic reticulating folds. The ciliary processes have the same structure as the rest of the choroid; but the capillary plexus of the vessels is less fine and has meshes with chiefly a longitudinal direction ; and the ramified cells, fewer in number, are devoid of pigment towards the free extremities of the folds. The Hood-vessels of the ciliary processes (fig. 413, cl) are very numerous, and are derived from the anterior ciliary, and from those of the fore part of the choroidal membrane. Several small arterial branches enter the outer part of each ciliary process, at first running parallel to each other and communicating sparingly. As they enter the prominent folded portion, the vessels become tortuous, subdivide minutely, and inosculate frequently by cross branches. Finally they form short arches or loops, and turn backwards to pour their contents into the radicles of the veins. On the free border of the fold, one artery, larger than the rest, extends the whole length of each ciliary process, and communicates through intervening vessels with a long venous trunk which runs a similar course on the attached surface. Ciliary muscle.—At the anterior part of the choroid, between it and the sclerotic, is a zone of plain muscular tissue, the ciliary muscle of Bowman. It arises (fig. 403, 10) by a thin tendon from the forepart of the sclerotic close to the cornea, and between the canal of Schlemm and the spaces of Fontana, and its fibres, spreading out, are directed backwards (fig. 403, k), to be inserted into the choroid opposite to the ciliary processes, and partly further back, the fibres passing equatorially and intercrossing so as to form peculiar stellate figures. A small portion (the outermost) is sometimes inserted into the sclerotic (fig. 403, M). These antero-posterior, or meridional and radiating fibres, pass at the side next the iris into a ring of fibres (l), which have a circular course around the insertion of the iris. This set forms the circular ciliary muscle of H. Miiller. •This circular muscle is much developed in hypermetropic eyes, but is atrophied, or may even, it is said, be absent in myopic (Iwanoff). The ciliary muscle, at least its circular part, was formerly described as the ciliary ligament. THE IRIS. The iris is the contractile and coloured membrane which is seen behind the transparent cornea, and gives the tint to the eye. In its centre it is perforated by an aperture—the pupil. By its circumferential border, which is nearly circular, the iris is connected with the choroid, the cornea, and the ciliary muscles : the free inner edge is the boundary of the pupil, and is constantly altering its dimensions during life. The iris measures £ an inch across, and, in a state of rest, about i-th of an inch from the circumference to the pupil. Its surfaces look forwards and backwards. The anterior, variously coloured in different eyes, is marked by waved lines converging towards