64$ THE MEMBRANOUS LABYRINTH. the interior of the canal Fig. 463. The tunica propria is a clear, glassy, membranous structure continuous around the whole tube, although thinning off very much opposite the part where the membranous canal is in contact with the bone (fig. 462, 5). Externally it is not very distinctly marked off from the fibrous coat: internally it presents not a smooth surface but a number of papilliform eminences (fig. 462, 3, 6), which project into ' except at the thinnest part. According to Riidinger, these eminences are found almost constantly in the adult. The epithelial lining is continuous, both over and between the papilliform projec- tions. In the human semicircular canals the cells are of the same nature and form throughout, but in many of the lower animals—birds and fish—a part takes on somewhat of a columnar character, while in one species of fish, (Salmo hucho), as described by Budinger, a tract of cells along the whole length of each canal be- comes remarkably developed into two rows of heaped-up, rounded cell-bodies, from each of which a long filament extends to the wall of the canal in a direction trans- verse to the axis. The meaning of these modifications of structure is unknown. No nerves have hitherto been seen proceeding to the parts in question ; but they apparently represent the much more developed peculiarly modified epithelium which, as we shall immediately see, is found in the ampullae and in the saccule and utricle opposite the parts where the corresponding branches of the auditory nerve enter, and which receives the ultimate termina- tions of those nerves. The ampullae, as well as the saccule and utricle, agree generally in structure with the semicircular canals : at the part, however, where they are connected to the osseous wall the fibrous outer layer forms a loose-meshed tissue, and the tunica propria is very much thickened, and in the am- pullae causes a rounded transverse projec- tion into the cavity of each, the septum transversum, or crista acustica, before men- tioned. Over this projection, and also to a certain extent in its neighbourhood, the epithelium is of an elongated columnar form (fig. 463, c), and is surmounted by long and fine cilium-like processes (auditory hairs (h) ), which are, however, not spontaneously vibratile, but project stiffly into the endo- lymph. These hairlets are said to belong not to the columnar epithelium cells themselves, but to spindle-shaped cells (sp), which lie between Fig. 463.—Diagram of the Auditory Epithelium and the Mode op Termination of the Nerves of the AMPULL^:(afterM. Schultze). c, columnar epithelium ; sp, spindle-shaped cells, each sup- porting an auditory hair, It; b, basal supporting cells ; n, two nerve fibres passing through the tunica propria to join the plexus in the epithelium ; I, limit of tunica propria.