RELATIONS OF THE PANCREAS. 395 Clendenning, is usually from 2j oz. to 3 \ oz.; but Meckel has noted it as high as 6 oz., and Soemmerring as low as 1^ oz. The anterior surface of the pancreas is covered with the posterior wall of the sac of the omentum, and is concealed by the stomach, which Fig. 282. Eig. 282.—View of the Pancreas and surrounding Organs. l-5th. In this figure, which is altered from Tiedemann, the liver and stomach are turned upwards to show the duodenum, the pancreas, and the spleen : I, the under surface of the liver ; rj, gall-bladder; /, the common bile duct, formed by the union of the cystic duct from the gall-bladder, and the hepatic duct coming from the liver ; o, the cardiac end of the stomach, where the oesophagus enters ; s, under surface of the stomach ; p, pyloric end of the stomach ; d, duodenum ; h, head of the pancreas ; t, tail, and i, body of that gland ; the substance of the pancreas is removed in front, to show the pancreatic duct (e) and its branches; r, the spleen ; v, the hilus, at which the blood-vessels enter ; c, c, crura of the diaphragm ; n, superior mesenteric artery ; a, aorta. glides upon it. The posterior surface is attached by areolar tissue to the vena cava, the aorta, the superior mesenteric artery and vein, the commencement of the vena portae, and the pillars of the diaphragm (<?, c), all of which parts, besides many lymphatic vessels and glands, are inter- posed between it and the upper lumbar vertebrae: to the left of the vertebral column it is attached similarly to the left suprarenal capsule and kidney and to the renal vessels. Of the large vessels situated behind the pancreas, the superior mesenteric artery (n) and vein are embraced by the substance of the gland, the lower extremity of the head curving somewhat behind them/"" so as sometimes to enclose these vessels in a complete canal, through which they pass downwards and forwards, and then emerge from beneath the lower border of the pancreas, between it and the termination of the duodenum. The cceliac axis is above the pancreas ; and in a groove along the upper border of the gland are placed the splenic artery and vein, the vein pursuing a straight, and the artery a tortuous course, and both supplying numerous branches to the pancreas, the narrow extremity of which is thus attached to the inner surface of the spleen (r). The head of the pancreas, embraced by * This part of the gland is sometimes marked off from the rest, and is then named the lesser pancreas.