BLOOD-VESSELS. 182 &c), varying in size from minute specks to spheroids of the diameter of a blood-corpuscle, or more. At some parts the tissue is completely studded with these cells, each containing a number of such spheroids, and forming, as it were, " nests " of blood-corpuscles or minute " blood- islands." After a time the cells, previously rounded, become elongated and pointed at their ends, sending out processes also to unite with neighbouring cells. At the same Fig. 123. time the vacuoles in their interior become enlarged, and coalesce to form a cavity within the cell, in which the reddish globules, which are now becoming disk-shaped, are found. Finally the cavity extends through the cell processes into those of neighbouring cells and into those sent out from pre- existing capillaries (c). Young capillaries do not exhibit the well-known silver lines when treated with that reagent, for the differentiation of the hollowed cells and cell-processes into flat- tened cellular elements is usually a subsequent process. The mode of extension of the vascular system in growing parts, as well as in pathological new formations, is quite similar to that here described, except that blood-corpuscles are not as a rule previously developed within the cells which are to form the blood-vessels.* In the tail of batrachian larvas the process has long- been studied and is represented in the adjoining figure (fig. 123) by Kolliker, in which the processes of a stellate cell are seen to meet and join with similar pointed processes which shoot out from the sides of neighbouring capillary vessels, and in this manner the new vessels are adopted into the existing system. The junctions of the cells with each other or with capillary vessels are, at first, of great tenuity, and contrast strongly with the central and wider parts of the cells ; they appear then to be solid, but they afterwards become pervious and gradually widen, blood begins to pass through them, and the capillary network acquires a tolerably uniform calibre. The original vascular network may become closer by the forma- Fig. 123.—Capillary Blood-Vessels op the Tail of a very Young Frog Larva, magnified 350 Diameters (after Kol- liker). a, capillaries permeable to blood; &, granules, attached to the walls of the and concealing nuclei; c, hollow prolongation of a capillary, ending in a point ; d, a branched cell, containing a nucleus and granules, and communicating by three branches with prolongations of capillaries already formed ; e, blood-corpuscles. * A formation of bloocl-corpuscles~and vessels from cartilage-cells has been^ described by Heitzmanrj as occurring in ossifying cartilage.