108 MUSCULAR TISSUE. exciting or calling into play the property in question, and which are therefore named stimuli. A large class of muscles, comprehending those of locomotion, respiration, expression, and some others, are excited by the stimulus of the will, or volition, acting on them through the nerves ; these are therefore named " voluntary muscles," although some of them habitually, and all occasionally, act also in obedience to other stimuli. There are other muscles or muscular fibres which are entirely withdrawn from the control of the will, such as those of the heart and intestinal canal, and these are accordingly named " involun- tary." These two classes of muscles differ not only in the mode in which they are excited to act, but also to a certain extent in their anatomical characters; and on this account we shall consider the structure of each class separately. OF THE STRUCTURE OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLES. The voluntary muscular fibres are for the most part gathered into distinct masses or muscles of various sizes and shapes, but most generally of an oblong form, and furnished with tendons at each extremity, by which they are fixed to the bones. The two attached extremities of a muscle are named, in anatomical descriptions, its origin and insertion;—the former term being usually applied to the attachment which is considered to be most fixed, although the rule cannot be always applied strictly. The fleshy part is named the belly, which in some cases is interrupted in the middle or divided into two by a tendon, and then the muscle is said to be biventral or digastric; on the other hand it may be cleft at one end into two or three portions, in which case it is named bicipital or tricipital. The muscular fibres are collected into packets or bundles, of greater or less thickness, named fasciculi or lacerti (fig. 64), and the fibres themselves are commonly described as consisting of much finer threads, visible by the aid of the microscope, which are termed muscular fila- ments, fibrillfe, or fibrils (fig. 65, c). The fibrils run parallel with each other in the fibres, and the fibres are parallel in the fasciculi; and the fasciculi extend continuously from one terminal tendon to the other, unless in those instances, like the rectus muscle of the abdomen and the digastric of the inferior maxilla, in which the fleshy part is interrupted by interposed tendinous tissue. The fasciculi also very generally run parallel, and, although in many instances they converge towards their tendinous attachment with various degrees of inclination, yet in the voluntary muscles they do not interlace with one another. Sheath.—An outward investment or sheath of areolar tissue (some- times named perimysium) surrounds the entire muscle, and sends par- titions inwards between the fasciculi; furnishing to each of them a special sheath. The areolar tissue extends also between the fibres, but does not afford to each a continuous investment, and therefore cannot be said to form sheaths for them. Every fibre, it is true, has a tubular sheath; but this, as will be afterwards explained, is not derived from the areolar tissue. The tissue of the sheath is composed of elastic (yellow) as well as of white fibres; but the elastic element is found principally in its investing (as distinguished from its penetrating) portion. The chief uses of the areolar tissue are to connect the fibres and fasciculi together, and to conduct and support the blood-vessels and