21 CORPUSCLES treated, when viewed in mass by transmitted light, is seen to have lost its opaque appearance and. to have acquired a transparent laky tint. Such lake-coloured blood may also be produced by various other means, such as the action of heat (60° C), the alternate freezing and thawing of a portion of blood, and the passage of electric shocks : the change in colour and translucency obviously depends upon the fact that the corpuscles, when deprived of their coloured part, interfere less with the transmission of light than before : such blood is often exceedingly prone to yield crystals of haemoglobin (to be afterwards described). The action of tannin is peculiar from the fact that under certain conditions the coloured part, instead of being diffused in the fluid, becomes collected into a minute, highly refracting, globular mass which remains attached to the exterior of the stroma (W. Roberts).* The corpuscles alter their shape on the slightest pressure, as is beautifully seen while they move within the vessels ; they are also elastic, for they readily recover their original form again. It must be remarked that the blood-corpuscles when viewed singly appear very faintly coloured, and it is only when collected in considerable quantity that they produce a strong deep red. The human-blood corpuscles, as well as those of the lower animals, often present deviations from the natural shape, which are most probably due to causes acting after the blood has been drawn from the vessels, but in some instances depend upon abnormal conditions previously existing in the blood. Thus, it is not unusual for many of them to appear indented or jagged at the margin, when exposed under the microscope, (fig. 10, c, c) and the number of corpuscles so altered often appears to increase during the time of observation. This is, perhaps, the most common change ; it occurs whenever the density of the plasma is increased by the addition of a neutral salt, and is one of the first effects of the passage of an electric shock. The corpuscles may become distorted in various other ways, and corrugated on the surface ; not unfrequently one of their concave sides is bent out, and they acquire a cup-like figure. Gulliver made the curious discovery Fig- II. that the corpuscles of the Mexican deer and some allied species present very singular forms, doubtless in consequence of exposure ; the figures they assume are various, but most of them become lengthened and pointed at the ends, and then often slightly bent, not unlike caraway-seeds. The red disks, when blood is drawn from the vessels, sink in the plasma; they have a singular tendency to run Fig< 1l_Eed Corpuscles al- together, and to cohere by their broad sur- lected into Rolls (af ter Heale). faces, so as to form by their aggregation cylindrical columns, like piles or rouleaus of money, and the rolls or piles themselves join together into an irregular network (figs. 10 and 11). Generally the corpuscles separate on a slight impulse, and they * Proceedings of the Royal Society, vol. xii. p. 481. For some interesting observa- tions by Dr. W. Addison, F.R.S., on the curious effects produced on red blood-corpuscles by immersion in sherry-wine, see Proceedings of the Royal Society, Dec. 8, 1859.