THE EAE. €58 Corti. The central part of this apparatus is formed by two sets of stiff, rod-like bodies—the inner and outer rods of Corti (figs. 470,471)— which stand by one end, the foot, uwn the basilar membrane, the outer series [e.r.), at some little distance from the inner (i.r.), and thence are inclined towards each other—the outer series inwards and the inner series outwards—so as to meet by their upper ends or heads, which are thus in contact. In this way each pair of rods forms a sort of arch with slanting sides (fig. 471), and since both inner and outer rods are, respectively, in lateral juxtaposition, the double series of inclined columns forms a tunnel (fig. 470) along the whole extent of the basilar membrane, which in the natural condition is filled with endolymph. On the inner side of the inner rods is a row of epithelial cells—inner hair-cells—which are surmounted by a brush of fine, short, stiff hairlets, and external to the outer rods are three or four successive rows of similar but more elongated cells—outer hair-cells—which are inclined in a direction more or less parallel with that of the corresponding series of rods. The hairlets of these outer hair-cells project through rings (fig. 470, m, n, o), which surround the tops of the cells, and which are bounded by minute, fiddle-shaped cuticular structures—the so-called phalanges—connected both to one another and to the heads of the outer rods. A reticular lamina (fig. 470, l.r.) is thus formed which covers this part of the organ of Corti, like a wire net. On either side of the two sets of hair-cells the epithelium, becoming gradually shorter, passes continuously into the simple layer of cubical cells which is found both in the spiral groove and also covering the outermost part of the basilar membrane. The whole organ is, in addition to the reticular lamina, covered by a comparatively thick, fibrillated, and, to all appearance, highly elastic membrane—the tectorial membrane (fig. 469, M.t.)—which is attached by one edge to the upper surface of the limbus, falls over the crest of the latter and rests by the other edge and by the adjoining part of its- under surface on the rods of Corti and the hair-cells, converting in this way the spiral groove into a canal. It will be necessary to describe more minutely these several parts of the organ of Corti. Rods of Corti.—The inner and outer rods of Corti differ considerably from one another in size and shape, although agreeing, for the most part, as regards the details of their structure. Each inner rod may be- best compared in shape to a human ulna, the upper end of the rod being- pretty accurately represented by the head of that bone, the olecranon and coronoid processes, as well as the concave articular surface between,, being readily recognisable. The outer rods, on the other hand, some- what resemble in shape a swan's head and neck ; the rounded part, which represents the back of the head, fitting into, and being connected with, the concave surface on the head of the corresponding inner rod (or rather of two or three inner rods, for the latter are smaller and more numerous than the outer ones), while the part which represents the bill projects outwards and becomes connected with the phalanges of the lamina reticularis, aiding to form the first series of rings for the hair-cells. Both inner and outer rods are more slender about the middle of their length and expand again below, so as to rest upon the basilar membrane by a somewhat widened foot. Both are distinctly striated throughout their length (fig. 474), and the striation or fibrillation, as is particularly well seen in the outer rods, passes, at the point of attach-