THE TESTICLE. 448 Fig. 320.—Ducts of the Testicle injected with Mercury Fig. 320. not free, but are embedded in a sort of protoplasmic trabecular net- work within which they are formed. This was first stated by Sertoli, in 1864, and more recently a detailed description of such a delicate trabecular structure has been given by Merkel, whose views are sup- ported by several other observers. (Merkel, in Du Bois-Reymond's Archiv, 1869 and 1871, andLaValette St. George, in Schultze's Archiv, vol. i.) On the other hand it is asserted as the result of renewed ob- servations that the alleged framework is the product of artificial pro- cesses. (Mihalkovics, in Ludvvig's Arbeiten, 1874.) It seems most probable, therefore, that the seminal or spermatic cells are produced as in other tubular glands by development from the layer of cells lying originally on the inside of the basement membrane of the tubes. (Kul- liker's Handbuch, 1867, p. 526.) The intervals between the glandular tubes are occupied by blood- vessels, lymphatics and nerves, embedded iu a peculiar tissue of a rather undefined character, but presenting a large quantity of the nuclear and molecular elements, so that Henle compares it to the cortical substance of the brain, or the contents of ganglionic cells. In this substance there are large interstitial spaces lined with flat nuclear epithelium, in which Ludwig and Tomsa have shown that the lym- phatics of the testicle commence. (Wien. Sitzungsbericht, vol. xliv. p. 221, 1862.) The vasa recta pursue a comparatively straight course ; they are upwards of twenty in number, and are from -tfoth to Tyth of an inch in diameter. They pass upwards and backwards through the fibrous tissue, as already stated, and end in a close network of tubes, named by Haller the rete vasculosum testis, which lies in the substance of the corpus Highmori, along the back part of the testicle, but in front of the pri- mary subdivisions of the spermatic blood-vessels before these enter the gland. The tubes composing the rete have very thin walls. According to Kolliker, indeed, they have none proper to them, but are mere channels in (from Haller). a, body of the testicle ; h, tubuli in the interior of the gland ; c, rete vasculosum ; d, vasa efferentia terminating in the coni vasculosi; e, f, g, convoluted canal of the epididymis ; h, vas deferens ascending from the globus minor of the epididymis. the fibrous stroma, lined with squamous epithelium. According to Henle the epithelium of the tubes in the rete testis already begins to assume the columnar character which it possesses in the after parts of the ducts. They conduct the secretion to the upper end of the testis, where they open into the vasa efferentia. The vasa efferentia are from twelve to fifteen, or sometimes twenty in number ; they perforate the tunica albuginea beneath the globus major of the epididymis, of which they may be said to form a part, and in the convoluted canal of which they ultimately terminate. On emerging from the testis, these vasa efferentia are straight, but, becoming more and more convoluted as they proceed towards the