CEREBELLUM. 516 Superiorly, the median portion or upper vermiform process, though slightly elevated, is not marked off from the hemispheres, so that the general surface of the organ, which is here inclined and flattened on each side, is uninterrupted. Below, the hemispheres are convex, and are separated by a deep fossa, named the vallecula, which is continuous with the notch behind, and in which the inferior vermiform process (fig. 361, 2, 2 ; fig. 362, cpu) lies concealed in a great measure by the surrounding parts. Into this hollow the medulla oblongata is received in front, and the falx cerebelli behind. The peduncles are named superior, middle, and inferior, and connect the hemispheres of the cerebellum with the brain, spinal cord, and with each other. The superior peduncles (fig. 358, 5), crura ad cerebrum or processus ad testes, together with the valve of Vieussens, a lamina stretched between them, connect the cerebellum with the cerebrum. The inferior peduncles (fig. 358, 3), crura ad medullam, are the upper extremities of the restiform bodies. The middle peduncles (fig. 361, 8), or crura ad pontem, much the largest, are the lateral extremities of the transverse fibres of the pons Varolii. They connect together the two halves of the cerebellum inferiorly. All these peduncles pass into the interior of the cerebellum at its fore part. Folia.—The cerebellum, at the surface, and for some depth, consists, of numerous nearly parallel laminae or folia, which are composed of grey Fig. 361. Fig. 361.—Inferior Surface of the Cerebellum with the Pons Varolii and Medulla Oblongata (from Sappey after Hirschfeld and Leveille'). § 1, placed in the notch between the cerebellar hemispheres, is below the inferior vermiform process ; 2, 2, median depression or vallecula ; 3, 3, 3, the biventral, slender, and posterior inferior lobules of the hemisphere ; 4, the amygdala ; 5, flocculus or sub- peduncular lobule ; 6, pons Varolii ; 7, its median groove ; 8, middle peduncle of the cerebellum ; 9, medulla oblongata ; 10, 11, anterior part of the great horizontal fissure ; 12, 13, smaller and greater roots of the fifth pair of nerves ; 14, sixth pair ; 15, facial nerve ; 16, pars intermedia ; 17, auditory nerve ; 18, glosso-pharyngeal ; 19, pneumo- gastric ; 20, spinal accessory ; 21, hypoglossal nerve.