284 THE LARYNX. lage there is occasionally found a small synovial bursa. The thyro- hyoid membrane is thick where subcutaneous towards the middle line, but at the sides becomes thin and loose, and is covered by the thyro- hyoid muscles. Behind, is the epiglottis with the mucous membrane of the base of the tongue, separated, however, by adipose tissue and mucous glands. This ligament is perforated by the superior laryngeal artery and nerve of each side. The lateral thyrohyoid ligaments, placed at the posterior limits of the thyro-hyoid membrane, are two rounded yellowish cords, which pass up from the superior cornua of the thyroid cartilage, to the extremities of the great cornua of the hyoid bone. They are distinctly elastic, and frequently enclose a small obiong cartilaginous nodule, which has been named cartilago triticea: some- times this nodule is bony. The thyroid and cricoid cartilages are connected together by a mem- branous ligament and synovial articulations. The crico-thyroid membrane is divisible into a mesial and two lateral portions. The mesial portion, broad below and narrow above, is a strong triangular yellowish ligament, consisting chiefly of elastic tissue, and is attached to the contiguous borders of the two cartilages. Its anterior surface is convex, is partly covered by the crico-thyroid muscles, and is crossed horizontally by a small anastomotic arterial arch, formed by the junc- tion of the crico-thyroid branches of the right and left superior thyroid arteries. The lateral portions are fixed on each side along the inner edge of the upper border of the cricoid close under the mucous mem- brane : they become much thinner above, where they are attached in front to the middle of the angle between the alee of the thyroid cartilage, and behind to the anterior projection of the base of the ary- tenoid cartilages : the upper edges are free between those attachments and form the inferior thyro-arytenoid ligaments or true vocal cords. The crico-thyroid joints, between the inferior cornua of the thy- roid cartilage and the sides of the cricoid, are two small but distinct articulations, having each a ligamentous capsule and a synovial mem- brane. The prominent oval articular surfaces of the cricoid cartilage are directed upwards and outwards, while those of the thyroid cartilage, which are slightly concave, look in the opposite direction. The cap- sular fibres form a stout band behind the joint. The movement allowed is of a rotatory description, the thyroid cartilage revolving on its inferior cornua, and the axis of rotation passing transversely through the two joints. The superior thyro-arytenoid ligaments consist of a few slight fibrous fasciculi, contained within the folds of mucous membrane form- ing the false vocal cords hereafter to be described, and are fixed in front to the angle between the alas of the thyroid cartilage, some- what above its middle, and close to the attachment of the epiglottis : behind, they are connected to the tubercles on the rough anterior surface of the arytenoid cartilages. They are continuous above with scattered fibrous bundles contained in the aryteno-epiglottidean folds. The crico-arytenoid joints are surrounded by a series of thin capsular fibres, which, together with a loose synovial membrane, serve to connect the convex elliptical articular surfaces on the upper border of the cricoid cartilage with the concave articular depressions on the bases of the arytenoid cartilages. There is, moreover, a strong posterior