STRUCTURE OF THE SCLEROTIC. 591 pupil ; 12, the crystalline lens, within its capsule ; 13, the vitreous humour ; a, a, «, parts of a dotted line in the axis of the eye ; b, b, b, b, a line in the transverse diameter. It will be observed that from the pupil being placed nearer the inner side the axis of the eyeball, a, a, does not pass exactly through the centre of the pupil, and that this line falls a little to the inner side of the fovea centralis. The following letters indicate the centres of the curvatures of the different surfaces, assuming them to be nearly spherical, viz. : c a, of the anterior surface of the cornea ; c p, posterior surface ; I a, anterior surface of the lens; Ip, posterior surface ; s c p, posterior surface of the sclerotic ; r «, anterior surface of the retina. In connection with this figure the following average dimensions of the parts of the adult eye in fractions of an English inch may be stated:— Tranverse diameter of the eyeball . . . . . . 1* Vertical diameter (Krause) 0*96 Antero-posterior diameter ........ 0*96 Diameter of the optic nerve with its sheath . . . . . 016 Diameter of the nervous part at its passage through the choroid membrane . . . . . . . . . . 0"09 Greatest thickness of the sclerotic, choroid, and retina together. . 0*08 Greatest thickness of the sclerotic posteriorly .... 0"05 Smallest thickness at the sides and in front . . . . . 0*025 Greatest thickness of the cornea 0*055 Distance from the middle of the posterior surface of the cornea to the front of the lens 0*07 Antero-posterior diameter of the lens ...... 0*19 Transverse ditto 0*35 Greatest thickness of the ciliary muscle and ciliary processes together .' 0*06 Greatest thickness of the ciliary muscle . . . . . . 0*035 Thickness of the iris 0*015 Length of the radius of curvature of the anterior surface of the cornea (regarding it approximately as spherical) . . . . 0'305 Radius of the posterior surface ....... 0*275 Radius of curvature of the anterior surface of the lens . . . 0*38 Radius of the posterior surface 0*21 Approximate length of the radius of curvature of the outer surface in the posterior half of the retina . 0*185 Approximate radius of curvature of the external surface of the posterior part of the sclerotic coat ...... 0*5 Distance of the middle of the posterior surface of the lens from the middle of the retina ......... 0*575 Distance between the centre of the spot of entrance of the optic nerve and the middle of the fovea centralis retinas . . . 0*11 Diameter of the base of the cornea ....... 0*48 Diameter of the base of the iris transversely ..... 0*15 Diameter of the base of the iris vertically 0*13 Diameter of the pupil 0*11 _ Structure.—The sclerotic coat is formed of connective tissue, and yields gelatine on boiling. Its fibres are combined with fine elastic tissue, and amongst them lie numerous connective tissue corpuscles lodged in cell spaces, but not by any means so regularly arranged as in the cornea. Some of the cells are pigmented. The bundles are dis- posed in layers both longitudinally and transversely, the longitudinal arrangement being most marked at the surfaces. These layers com- municate at intervals so as not to be separable for any distance. A few blood-vessels permeate the fibrous texture in the form of a net- work of capillaries with very wide meshes. In the neighbourhood of the cornea a zone of greater vascularity exists, which has been already noticed in the description of the sclerotic conjunctiva. VOL. II. O o