THE PROSTATE GLAND. 429 side, from the symphysis pubis and anterior ligament of the bladder, and embrace the sides of the prostate. This part of each levator ani is occasionally separated from the rest of the muscle by areolar tissue, and has been named levator prostata. The base of the gland is of considerable thickness, and is notched in the middle : its apex is turned towards the triangular ligament. As already stated, the prostate en- closes the first part of the urethra. The canal runs nearer to the anterior than to the posterior surface of the gland, so that in general it is about three lines distant from the former and four or five from the latter ; Tmt it frequently varies greatly in this respect. The prostatic portion of the urethra is about an inch and a quarter long, and is dilated in the middle ; it contains the colliculus seminalis and the openings of the seminal and prostatic ducts, as will be afterwards more particu- larly described. The common or ejaculatory seminal ducts, which pass forwards from the vesicuke seminales, also traverse the lower part of the prostate, enclosed in a special hollow part of the gland, and open into the urethra; and in the middle, close in front of these, is the prostatic utricle. This gland is usually described as consisting of three lobes, two of which, placed laterally, and meeting behind in the posterior notch, and continuous in front of the urethra, are of equal size ; the third, or middle lobe, is a smaller pyriform or three-sided mass, intimately connected with the other two, and fitted in between them and the neck of the bladder and adjacent part of the urethra. When prominent it corresponds to the elevation in the urinary bladder called uvula. The separation between the lobes of the prostate, which is little marked in the natural state, becomes often much more apparent in disease. Structure.—The prostate gland is covered externally by a dense fibrous coat, which is continuous with the recto-vesical fascia, and with the posterior layer of the triangular ligament. Adams describes the fibrous capsule as divisible into two layers, between which the pro- static plexus of veins is enclosed. The glandular substance is asso- ciated with a large quantity of plain muscular tissue, which forms the principal part of the stroma of the organ. This muscular tissue forms an external layer below the fibrous capsule, and extends every- where through the glandular substance : there is also a strong layer of circular fibres continuous posteriorly with the sphincter vesicas, and in front with the thin layer surrounding the membranous part of the urethra. The part of the prostate in front of the urethra is almost entirely muscular, and in the hinder part the muscular sub- stance is in greatest quantity near the bladder. The glandular sub- stance is spongy and yielding ; its colour is reddish grey, or sometimes of a browmish hue. It consists of numerous small saccules, or terminal vesicles, opening into elongated tubes, which unite into a smaller number of excretory ducts. The epithelium is columnar both in the vesicular terminations and in the canals. In the upper part of the gland the acini are small and hemispherical ; in the middle and lower parts the tubes are longer and convoluted at their ends. The capillary blood-vessels spread out as in other similar glands on the ducts and clusters of vesicles, and the different glandular elements are united by areolar tissue, and supported by processes of the deep layer of the fibrous capsule and muscular stroma. The ducts open by from twelve to twenty or more orifices upon the floor of the urethra, chiefly in the