240 THE PERICARDIUM. distance along them in the form of tubular prolongations, which become gradually lost upon their external coats. The superior vena cava, the four pulmonary veins, the aorta, and the right and left divisions of the pulmonary artery, in all eight vessels, receive investments of this kind. Fig. 163. Fig. 163.—Transverse Section op the Chest op a Fcetus, illustrating the relative position op the Heart and Lungs and the Inflections op the Pericardium and Pleura (Allen Thomson after Luschka). The sketch represents the upper surface of the lower section ; the division is carried nearly in a horizontal plane on a level with the interval in front between the fifth and sixth ribs, s, the sternum ; c, the body of the seventh dorsal vertebra ; h, the right, and h', the left ventricle ; ce, the oesophagus ; p n, the left pneumogastric nerve ; near these letters respectively, the root of the right and left lungs ; the right pneumogastric nerve is behind the oesophagus ; a, the aorta ; v a, the vena azygos ; d, thoracic duct ; 1, the cardiac pericardium ; 2, in the anterior mediastinal space, the parietal pericar- dium ; 2', the cavity of the pericardium ; 3, the pulmonary pleurae passing over the surface, and reflected at the roots of the lungs ; 3', their cavity, and on the right side, the reflection at the mediastinum to the surface of the pericardium ; 4, the parietal or costal pleurae; c, c, the walls of the chest inclosing the ribs, pectoral muscles, &c. The serous layer not only lines the fibrous layer of the pericardium, but, like other serous membranes, is reflected on the surface of the viscus which it invests. It has, therefore, a visceral and a parietal portion. The parietal portion adheres 'firmly to the fibrous mem- brane, and becomes continuous with the visceral portion upon the arch of the aorta and other great vessels, about 2 or 2J inches from the base of the heart. In passing round the aorta and pulmonary artery, it encloses those vessels in a common short tubular sheath