STRUCTURAL CHANGES OF THE UTERUS. 409 size and structure of the unimpregnated condition. During this change the en- larged muscular fibres undergo fatty degeneration and become subsequently absorbed, while a new set of minute fibre-cells are developed. After the first pregnancy, however, the organ never regains its original virgin character. In those who have had children its weight usually remains from two to three ounces ; its cavity is larger; the os externum is wider and more rounded, and its margins often puckered or fissured; the arteries continue much more tortuous, and its muscular fibres and layers remain more defined than in the virgin. Fig. 332. Fig. 332.—Outlines of Moulds op the Uterine Cavity in different states (after F. Guyon). Natural size. A, in a virgin of 17 years of age ; B, in a woman of 42 years who had not borne children ; C, in a woman of 35 years who had borne children ; b, cavity of the body ; c, that of the cervix ; i, the isthmus or os internum ; o, os externum ; t, passage of_the upper angle into the Fallopian tube. Changes from Age.—In the infant, the neck of the uterus is larger than the body; the fundus is not distinguished either by breadth or convexity of outline, and the cavity is remarkably narrow, and tapers out from the middle on both sides so as to present an approach to the two-horned form prevalent in animals. These parts afterwards enlarge gradually, until, at puberty, the pyriform figure of the womb is fully established. The arbor vitas is very distinct, and indeed at first reaches upward to the highest part of the cavity. The shape of the cavity of the body varies also in after life; but it remains comparatively narrow up to the age of puberty, and retains the same form to a great degree in all women who have borne no children. It is chiefly, therefore, in those who have been pregnant that its form is widely triangular. (Fel. Guyon, Cavite de l'Uterus, &c. Journ. de la Physiol, vol. ii. p. 186.) From the gradual effects of more advanced age alone, independent of impreg- nation, the uterus shrinks, and becomes paler in colour, and harder in texture; its triangular form is lost; the body and neck become less distinguishable from each other; the orifices also become less characteristic. For further details with regard to the structure of the uterus and its changes, the reader is referred to the article by Farre on " Uterus and its Appendages" in Cyclop, of Anat. and Phys.