291 MUSCLES OF THE LARYNX. brane, and is inserted into the anterior projection on the base of the arytenoid cartilage and to the surface adjacent, close to the insertion of the lateral crico-arytenoid. The upper thin portion of the thyro-arytenoid muscle is inserted higher up on the anterior surface and outer border of the arytenoid cartilage. The lower portion of the muscle contributes to the support of the true vocal cord lying parallel with it; into the outer surface of the ligament some of its fibres are inserted. The upper thin portion, external to the lower, lies upon the laryngeal pouch and ventricle, close beneath the mucous membrane : indeed the entire muscle may be exposed from the interior of the larynx, by raising the mucous mem- brane of the sinus and vocal cord. Fibres from this muscle pass round the border of the arytenoid cartilage, and become continuous with some of the oblique fibres of the arytenoid muscle, to be presently described. Santorini described three thyro" arytenoid muscles, an inferior and a middle, which are constant, and a superior, which is sometimes present. The fibres of the superior fasciculus (fig. 195, d'), when present, arise nearest to the notch of the thyroid cartilage, and are attached to the upper part of the base of the arytenoid cartilage. This is named by Soemmerring the small thyro- arytenoid, whilst the two other portions of the muscle constitute the great thyro-arytenoid of that author. Arytenoid and aryteno - epiglottidean muscles.—When the mucous membrane is removed from the back of the arytenoid cartilages, a thick band of trans- verse fibres constituting the aryte- noid muscle is laid bare (fig. 194, a), and on the surface of this are seen two slender decussating ob- lique bundles (s), formerly de- scribed as portions of the arytenoid muscle (arytamoideus obliquus), but now more generally con- sidered as parts of the aryteno- epiglottidean muscles, with which they are more closely associated both in the disposition of their fibres and in their action. The arytenoid muscle passes straight across, and its fibres are attached to the whole extent of the con- cave surface on the back of each arytenoid cartilage. The aryteno- epiglottidean muscles (fig. 196 b) Fig. 196. Fig. 196.—View of the Interior of the Left Half of the Larynx (after Hilton.) a, left arytenoid cartilage ; e, c, divided surfaces of the cricoid cartilage ; t, thyroid cartilage ; e, epiglottis ; v, left ventricle of the larynx ; r, left inferior or true vocal cord ; s, placed on the inner wall of the laryngeal pouch ; b, aryteno-epiglot- tidean muscle ; /, interior of the trachea. arisins; near the inferior and outer angles of the arytenoid cartilages, decussate one with the other, and