MUSCULAE FIBRES OF HAIR-FOLLICLES. 223 The soft, bulbous enlargement of the root of the hair is attached by its base to the bottom of the follicle, and at the circumference of this attached part it is continuous with the epidermic lining. At the bottom of the follicle it, in fact, takes the place of the epidermis, of which it is a growth or extension, and this part of the follicle is the true matrix of the hair, being, in reality, a part of the corium {though sunk below the general surface), which supplies material for Fig. 150. Fig. 151. Fig. 150.—Section op the Skin op the Head, with two Hair Follicles, slightly Magnified (Kolliker). a, epidermis ; b, corium ; c, muscles of the hair-follicles. Fig. 151.—Hair Rudiment from an Embryo op Six Weeks, magnified 350 Diameters (Kolliker). a, horny, and b, mucous or Malpighian layer of cuticle ; limitary membrane ; m, cells, some of which are assuming an oblong figure, which chiefly form the future hair. the production of the hair. From the bottom of this follicle rises a small vascular papilla, usually of a conical form, which fits into a corresponding excavation of the hair-knob ; in the large tactile hairs on the snout of the seal and some other animals it is very conspicuous. As the follicle, in short, is a recess of the corium, so the hair-papilla is a cutaneous papilla rising up in the bottom of it. The papilla is sometimes of an ovoid shape, and attached to the bottom of the follicle by a narrow base, or a sort of pedicle (fig. 147, i). Nervous branches enter the hair-follicles, but their final distribution is obscure. In the tactile hairs of animals, they are described as passing upwards over the outer root-sheath, losing their white substance and forming a close plexus with vertical meshes and numerous nuclei; finally terminating in an annular expansion, which encircles the hair just below the orifices of the sebaceous glands, and is in immediate connection with the hyaline layer of the follicle. In the larger tactile hairs the bulb is surrounded by cavernous tissue, which lies between the outer and middle layers of the dermic coat.* Slender bundles of plain muscular tissue are connected witli the hair- follicles (fig. 150). They arise from the most superficial part of the corium, and pass down obliquely to be inserted into the outside of the follicle below the sebaceous glands. They are placed on the side to which the hair slopes, so that their action in elevating the hair is evident. Some anatomists have also described a layer of circularly dis- posed muscular cells as applied immediately to the outside of the follicle. * See papers by Leydig, Stieda, Schobl, and others.