4C7 BLOOD-VESSELS OF THE UTERUS. the active ciliary motion. The epithelium of the general surface of the mucous membrane of the uterus is columnar and ciliated throughout. Ligamen ts of the uterus.—Where the peritoneum is reflected from the uterus to the bladder in front, and to the rectum behind, it forms, in each position, two semilunar folds, named respectively, the vesico-uterine, and the recto-uterine folds, or sometimes the anterior and the posterior ligaments of the uterus. The oroad ligaments (ligamenta lata) are formed on each side by a fold or double layer of the peritoneum, which is directed laterally out- wards from the anterior and posterior surfaces of the uterus, to be con- nected with the sides of the pelvic cavity. Between the two layers of the serous membrane are placed, first, superiorly, the Fallopian tube, which runs along the upper margin of the broad ligament; secondly, the round ligament, which is a little farther down in front ; thirdly, on the posterior surface, the ovary and its ligament, which lie in a special extension of the ligamentum latum ; and, lastly, throughout the greater part of the broad ligament, blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves, with spreading fibres from the superficial muscular layer of the uterus. The ligament of the ovary is merely a dense fibro-areolar cord, containing some uterine muscular fibres, and measuring about an inch and a half in length, which extends from the inner end of the ovary to the upper angle of the uterus, which it joins immediately behind and below the point of attachment of the Fallopian tube; it causes an elevation of the posterior layer of the serous membrane, and, together with the ovary itself, forms the lower limit of a triangular portion of the broad ligament, which has been named the ala vesper tilionis or bat's wing. The round ligaments are two flat, cord-like bundles of fibres, about four or five inches in length, attached to the upper angles of the uterus, one on either side (ligamentum teres uteri), immediately in front of the Fallopian tube. From this point each ligament proceeds upwards, outwards, and forwards, to gain the internal inguinal ring, and after having passed, like the spermatic cord in the male, through the inguinal canal, reaches the fore part of the pubic symphysis, where its fibres expand and become united with the substance of the mons Veneris. Besides areolar tissue and vessels, the round ligaments con- tain plain muscular fibres, which are prolonged into them from the outer muscular layer of the uterine wall. Each ligament also receives a covering from the peritoneum, which, in the young subject, projects under the form of a tubular process for some distance into the inguinal canal : this, which resembles the processus vaginalis originally existing in the same situation in the male, is named the canal of Nuck ; it is generally obliterated in the adult, but is sometimes found even in advanced life. Blood-vessels.—The arteries of the uterus are four in number, viz., the right and left ovarian (which correspond to the spermatic of the male) and the two uterine. Their origin, as well as the mode in which they reach the uterus and ovaries, has been already described. They are remarkable for their frequent anastomoses, and also for their singularly tortuous course ; within the substance of the uterus they seem to be placed in little channels or canals. The veins correspond with the arteries ; they are very large, and form the uterine plexuses, and their thin walls are in immediate contact with the uterine tissue. The course of the lymphatics has been previously described ; they are very large and abundant in the gravid uterus.