EXCRETORY APPARATUS OF THE LIVER. 385 The hepatic duct, formed by the union of a right and left branch, which issue from the bottom of the transverse fissure and unite at a very obtuse angle, descends to the right, within the gastro-hepatic omentum, in front of the vena portae, and with the hepatic artery to its left. Its diameter is about two lines, and its length nearly two inches. At its lower end it meets with the cystic duct, descending from the gall-bladder ; and the two ducts uniting together at an acute angle, form the common bile-duct. The gall-bladder (fig. 273, 20) is a pear-shaped membranous sac, 3 or 4 inches long, about an inch and a half across its widest part, and capable of containing from 8 to 12 fluid-drachms. It is lodged obliquely in a fossa on the under surface of the right lobe, with its large end or fundus (21), which projects beyond the anterior border of the liver, directed downwards, forwards, and to the right, whilst its neclc (22), is inclined in the opposite direction. The gall-bladder is attached above to the liver by areolar tissue and vessels, along the fossa formed between the quadrate lobe and the remainder of the right lobe. Below, it is free and covered by the peritoneum, which is here reflected from the liver, so as to support the gall-bladder. Sometimes, however, the peritoneum completely surrounds the latter, which is then suspended at a little distance from the under surface of the liver. The fundus, which is free, projecting, and always covered with peritoneum, touches the abdominal parietes immediately beneath the margin of the thorax, opposite the tip of the tenth costal cartilage. Below, the gall-bladder rests on the commencement of the transverse colon ; and, farther back, is in contact with the duodenum, and sometimes with the pyloric extremity of the stomach. The neclc, gradually narrowing, forms two curves upon itself like the letter S, and then, becoming much con- stricted, and changing its general direction altogether, it bends down- wards and terminates in the cystic duct. The gall-bladder is supplied with blood by the cystic branch of the right division of the hepatic artery, along which vessel it also receives nerves from the coeliac plexus. The cystic veins empty themselves into the vena portas. The cystic duct is about an inch and a half in length. It runs downwards and to the left, and unites with the hepatic duct to form the common bile-duct. The common bile-duct, ductus communis choledochus, the largest of the ducts, being from two to three lines in width, and nearly three inches in length, conveys the bile from the liver and the gall-bladder into the duodenum. It passes downwards and backwards, continuing the course of the hepatic duct, between the layers of the gastro-hepatic omentum, in front of the vena portas, and to the right of the hepatic artery. Passing behind the first part of the duodenum it reaches the descending portion and continues downwards on the inner and posterior aspect of that part of the intestine, covered by or included in the head of the pancreas, and, for a short distance, in contact with the right side of the pancreatic duct. Together with that duct, it then perforates the muscular wall of the intestine, and, after running obliquely for three quarters of an inch between its coats, and forming an elevation beneath the mucous membrane, it becomes somewhat constricted, and opens by a common orifice with the pancreatic duct on the inner surface of the duodenum, near the junction of the second and third portions of