476 THE OVARIES. peculiar opaque granular and prismatic cells in several layers, forming the membrana or tunica granulosa of authors. In the earliest stages of formation, before the follicle has expanded, this layer of cells lies close to the ovum, but as the follicles enlarge there comes to be formed within the granular layer a space of variable size filled with clear fluid, which holds a quantity of albumen in solution, so as to be coagulableby heat and chemical re-agents. The ovum is now found to be embedded in a thickened portion of this cellular layer, the cumulus or discus pro- ligerus of Von Baer, so as to be placed near the inner surface on one side of the follicle. The position of the ovum within the follicle appears to be subject to some variation. It was formerly described as being always on the side next the surface of the ovary ; but according to more recent observations it is as frequently situated on the deeper side of the follicle. The cells of the tunica granulosa and discus proligerus are without distinct external walls ; they possess a considerable quantity of protoplasm of an opaque or granular aspect, and are provided with oval nuclei. Near the inner surface of the follicle, and on the outer surface of the ovum, they assume a more elongated prismatic or pedi- culated form than in other parts of the membrane. The ovarian ovum.—Each Graafian follicle usually contains only a single ovum, but occasionally, though seldom, two ova, and very rarely three, have been observed in the same follicle. The ovum, first dis- covered by Von Baer in 1827, is a spherical body of about t\q of an inch in diameter, and of an opaque yellowish white colour. When fully formed it consists essentially of the following parts, viz.: 1st., a firm transparent external vesicular membrane termed zona pellucida, or vitelline membrane; 2nd., a mass of granular protoplasm filling the vesicle and constituting the yelk, yolk or vitellus, in which a number of oil globules of variable size are suspended; 3rd, embedded in the yolk protoplasm, and situated on one side near the surface, a small clear vesicle of about -j^of an inch in diameter, filled with a finely granular fluid, the germinal vesicle ; and 4th, within this vesicle a dark granular spot, of about 3-~o of an inch in diameter, the macula germinativa. Fig. 337. Fig. 337.—Ovum of the Sow removed from the Graafian Follicle, with its cellular covering (from M. Barry). 1, germinal spot ; 2, germinal vesicle ; 3, yolk ; 4, zone pellucida or external covering of the ovum ; 5, part of the tunica granulosa or proligerous disc ; 6, some adherent cells. The whole ovum was compared by Schwann to an organic cell, and this view is still in general maintained ; the zona representing the cell wall, the yolk the protoplasmic cell contents, or their product, the germinal vesicle the nucleus, and the macula the nucleolus. The part of the ovum which is first formed is the germinal vesicle, or nucleus, which, at so early a period as the tenth or eleventh week of foetal life, has been observed to take its origin from one of the cells of the epithelial covering or germinal epithelium of the incipient ovary, by its undergoing enlargement and becoming embedded in the ovarian substance. The inclosing ovarian stroma thus constitutes the first form of a Graafian follicle, and follicle and germ may be considered