49 CILIARY MOTION. water. The undulating movement may be beautifully seen on the gills of a mussel. The undulations, with some exceptions, seem always to travel in the same direction on the same parts. The impulsion, also, which the cilia communicate to the fluids or other matters in contact with them, maintains a constant direction ; unless in certain of the infusoria, in which the motion is often variable and arbitrary in direc- tion, and has even been supposed to be voluntary. Thus in the wind- pipe of mammalia, the mucus is conveyed upwards towards the larynx, and, if a portion of the membrane be detached, matters will still be conveyed along the surface of the separated fragment in the same direction relatively to that surface, as before its separation. The persistence of the ciliary motion for some time after death, and the regularity with which it goes on in parts separated from the rest of the body, sufficiently prove that, with the possible exceptions alluded to, it is not under the influence of the will of the animal nor dependent for its production on the nervous centres, and it does not appear to be influenced in any way by stimulation or sudden destruction of these centres. The time which it continues after death or separation differs in different kinds of animals, and is also materially influenced by tem- perature and by the nature of the fluid in contact with the surface. In warm-blooded animals the period varies from two or three hours to two days, or even more ; being longer in summer than in the cold of winter. In frogs the motion may continue four or five days after the destruction of the brain ; and it has been seen in the gullet of the tortoise fifteen days after decapitation, continuing seven days after the muscles had ceased to be irritable. With the view of throwing further light on the nature of this remarkable kind of motion, experiments have been made to ascertain the effect produced on it by different physical, chemical, and medicinal agents ; but, so far as these experiments have gone, it would seem that, with the exception of moderate heat and cold, alkaline solutions, chlo- roform vapour, and perhaps some other narcotics, these agents affect the action of the cilia only in so far as they act destructively on their tissue. The effect of change of temperature is different in warm and in cold-blooded animals. In the former the motion is stopped by a cold of 43° F., whereas in the frog and river-mussel it goes on unimpaired at 32° F. E. H. Weber made the interesting observation that, in ciliated epithelium particles detached from the human nasal membrane, the motion which has become languid or quiescent from the cold may be revived by warmth, such as that of the breath, and this several times in succession. A moderately elevated temperature, say 100° F., does not affect the motion in cold-blooded animals ; but, of course, a heat considerably higher than this and such as to alter the tissue, would put an end to it in all cases. Electric shocks, unless they cause abrasion of the ciliated surface (which is sometimes the case), produce no visible effect; and the same is true of galvanic currents. Fresh water arrests the motion in marine mollusca and in other salt-water animals ; but it evidently acts by destroying both the form and substance of the cilia, which in these cases are adapted to a different medium. Most of the common acid and saline solutions, when concentrated, arrest the action of the cilia instantaneously in all animals ; but dilution delays this effect, and when carried farther, prevents it altogether ; and hence it is, probably, due to a chemical alteration of the tissue. Virchow has observed that a solution of either potash or soda will revive the movement of cilia after it has ceased. Nar- cotic substances, such as hydrocyanic acid, salts of morphia and strychnia, opium and belladonna, are said by Purkinje and Valentin to have no effect, though the VOL. II. E