50 CILIA. first-named agent has certainly appeared to us to arrest the motion in the river- mussel. In confirmation of an observation of Lister * we find that exposure for a few moments to the vapour of chloroform arrests ciliary action, and that the motion revives again if the application of the vapour is discontinued. Bile stops the action of the cilia, while blood prolongs it in vertebrated animals; but the blood or serum of the vertebrata has quite an opposite effect on the cilia of invertebrate animals, arresting then motion almost instantaneously. Whatever views may be entertained concerning the nature and source of the power by which the cilia act, it must be borne in mind that each ciliated cell is individually endowed with the faculty of producing motion, and that it possesses in itself whatever organic apparatus and whatever physical or vital property may be necessary for that end ; for single epithelium cells are seen to exhibit the phenomenon long after they have been completely insulated. It seems not unreasonable to consider the ciliary motion as a manifestation of that property on which the more conspicuous motions of animals are known to depend, namely, vital contractility; and this view has at least the advantage of referring the phenomenon to the operation of a vital property already recognised as a source of moving power in the animal body. But, assuming this view to be sound, so far as regards the nature of the motile property brought into play, it affords no explanation of the cause by which the contractility is excited and the cilia maintained in constant action. It is true that nothing resembling a muscular apparatus in the ordinary sense of the term, has been shown to be connected with the cilia, nor is it necessary to suppose the existence of any such; for it must be remembered that, while the organic substance on which vital contractility depends is probably uniformly the same in composition, it does not everywhere assume the same form and texture. The anatomical characters of human voluntary muscle differ widely from those of most involuntary muscular structures, and still more from the contractile tissues of some of the lowest invertebrate animals, although the movements must in all these cases be referred to the same principle. The heart of the embryo beats while yet but a mass of cells, united, to all appearance, by amorphous matter, in which no fibres are seen ; yet no one would doubt that its motions depend then on the same property as at a later period, when its structure is fully developed. In its persistence after systemic death and in parts separated from the rest of the body, the ciliary motion agrees with the motion of certain muscular organs, as the heart, for example ; and the agreement extends even to the regular or rhythmic character of the motion in these circumstances. It is true, the one endures much longer than the other; but the difference appears to be one only of degree, for similar differences are known to prevail among muscles themselves. No one, for instance, doubts that the auricle of the heart is mus- cular, because it beats longer after death than the ventricle ; nor, because a frog's heart, continues to act a much longer time than a quadruped's, is it inferred that its motion depends on a power of a different nature. And the view here taken of the nature of the ciliary motion derives strength from the consideration that the phenomenon lasts longest in cold-blooded animals, in which vital contractility also is of longest endurance. In the effects of heat and cold, as far as observed, there is also an agreement between the movement of cilia and that of muscular parts; while, on the other hand, it must be allowed that electricity does not appear to excite their activity. The effects of narcotics afford little room for inference, seeing that our knowledge of then local action on muscular irritability is by no means exact; but in one instance, at least, an agent, chloroform vapour, which stops the action of the freshly excised heart of a frog, arrests also * Phil. Trans. 1858, p. 690, where will be found other valuable observations on the effect of external agents on ciliary action.