249 THE LEFT VENTRICLE. lunated depression may be observed (1'), comparable to a mark made by the finger-nail on a soft surface. This is the vestige of the foramen ovale, as it appears on the left side. The depression is limited by a slight crescentic ridge, the concavity of which is turned upwards, and which is in fact the border of the now adherent membranous valve, which during foetal life is applied to the left side of the then open foramen ovale. The line of adhesion may vary so as to leave more or less of a pocket-like recess. Pig. 170.—The Left Auricle Fig. 170. and Ventricle opened and a part op the wall re- moved so as to show their Interior (Allen Thom- son). One-half the natur- al size. The commencement of the pulmonary artery has been cut away, so as to show the aorta : the opening into the left ven- tricle has been carried a short distance into the aorta between two of the semilunar flaps ; part of the auricle with its appendix has been removed. 1, the two right pulmonary veins cut short ; 1', placed within the cavity of the auricle on the left side of the septum and on the part which forms the remains of the valve of the foramen ovale, of which the crescentic border is seen ; 2', a narrow portion of the wall of the auricle and ventricle preserved around the auriculo-ventricular orifice ; 3, the left part, 3', the right part, towards the septum, of the cut surface of the wall of the ventricle, seen to become very much thinner towards 3", at the apex ; 4, a small part of the wall of the left ventricle which has been preserved with the principal anterior or left papillary muscle attached to it ; 5, 5, the large posterior or ?" right papillary muscles ; 5', the left side of the septum ventriculorum ; 6, the right or aortic segment, and 6', the left or parietal segment of the mitral valve ; 7, placed in the interior of the aorta near its com- mencement and above its valve ; 7', the exterior of the great aortic sinus ; 8, the upper part of the conus arteriosus with the root of the pulmonary artery and its semilunar valves ; 8', the separated portion of the pulmonary artery remaining attached to the aorta by 9, the cord of the ductus arteriosus ; 10, the arteries rising from the summit of the aortic arch. The left or posterior ventricle occupies the left border of the heart, but only about a third of its extent appears on the anterior sur- face, the rest being seen behind. It is longer and narrower than the right ventricle, and the cross section of its cavity is oval, not crescentic, the septum on this side being concave (fig. 1G9). Its walls, which, excepting