FARTHER DEVELOPMENT OF THE URINARY ORGANS. 813 the hilus become straighter, and thus form the medullary substance. The tubuli. as shown by Valentin, are absolutely, as well as relatively, wider in the early stages of formation of the kidney. The Malpighian corpuscles have been seen by Rathke in a sheep's embryo, the kidneys of which measured only two and a half lines in length. Kolliker observed the kidneys already formed in the human embryo of between six and seven weeks, the ureter being hollow, and communicating with dilated cavities within the rest of the blastema. At eight weeks they had assumed their characteristic reniform shape, and about the tenth week they are distinctly lobulated. The separate lobules, generally about fifteen in number, gradually coalesce in the manner already described ; but at birth, indications of the original lobulated condition of the kidney are still visible on the surface, and the entire organ is more globular in its general figure than in the adult. The kidneys are then also situated lower down than in after-life. In the advanced foetus and in the new-born infant, the kidneys are relatively larger than in the adult, the weight of both glands, compared with that of the body, being, according to Meckel, about one to eighty at birth. The Suprarenal Bodies.—These organs have their origin in a mass of blastema, placed in front of and between the kidneys and the Wolffian bodies. They appear to originate in a single mass, and afterwards to become divided. Kolliker has also observed them in close connection with the substance in which the large sympathetic plexus of the abdomen is produced, but it is not ascertained that they have a common origin. In the human embryo the suprarenal bodies are at the seventh or eighth week larger than the kidneys, and quite conceal them, but after that time their relative size diminishes, so that at about the tenth or twelfth week they are smaller than the kidneys. At six months, according to Meckel, the proportion of the supra- renal bodies to the kidneys is as 2 to 5 ; at birth the proportion between them is 1 to 3, whilst in the adult it is about 1 to 22. They diminish much in aged per- sons, and are sometimes scarcely to be recognised. The Urinary Bladder and Urachus.—It has elsewhere been stated that in the human embryo the vesicular part of the allantois extending beyond the umbilicus is closed at a very early period. Its pedicle, how- ever, remains in communication with the urogenital sinus, and receives the ureters from the developing kidneys. The lower part of the pedicle undergoes a gradual dilatation to form the urinary bladder, while at the connection of this part with the urogenital sinus a constriction occurs in the part which gives rise to the urethra. This in the female opens at once into the original urogenital sinus, but in the male the passage is continued onwards through the penis by the median union of the parts below that organ. The part of the allantois situated above or in front of the bladder within the abdomen remains very much narrowed as the urachus, a tapering process of the upper extremity of the bladder into which at first the internal cavity is prolonged, but which later consists only of the muscular and fibrous coats. This process may for a time be traced for a short distance within the umbilical cord, but at an early period all vestiges of its farther prolongation disappear. Genital Cord.—In both sexes, as was first fully shown by Tiersch and Leuckart in 1852, the two Wolffian ducts become united by sur- rounding substances into one cord behind the lower part of the urinary bladder; but retaining internally their separate passages until they reach the sinus urogenitalis. With this cord the Miillerian ducts are incorporated posteriorly, so that at one time there are four passages through the whole of the genital cord. The Miillerian ducts next coalesce into one at some little distance from their lower ends, and this fusion, progressing upwards and downwards for a considerable space, a