321 DEVELOPMENT OF THE PERMANENT TEETH. glands (dental glands), and were supposed by him to secrete the tartar of the teeth. Meckel thought they were small abscesses, because no aperture could be detected in them. In a foetus of six months, they were found by Sharpey to be small round pearl-like bodies, in form of small spherical capsules of various sizes, filled with epithelium. They are probably the prominences, or sprouts of the outer epithelial layer of the enamel organ, already referred to. Development of the permanent Teeth.—The preceding description of the structure of the dental sacs and pulps and of the mode of formation of the several parts of a tooth, applies to the permanent as well as to the milk-teeth. The origin and progressive development of the sacs and pulps of the permanent teeth have still to be considered. Ten permanent teeth in each jaw succeed the milk-teeth, and six are superadded further back in the jaw. It will be convenient to treat first of the ten anterior teeth or teeth of succession. The sacs and pulps of these teeth have their foundations laid before birth, behind those of the milk set. Reverting to the follicular stage of the temporary teeth, which is completed about the fourteenth week, it will be remembered that behind each milk-follicle there is formed a small recess (fig. 214, C,fp), which is filled with epithelium derived from the common enamel-germ, and this forms the germ of the corresponding permanent tooth. As already stated, these recesses escape the general adhesion of the sides of the dental groove, so that when the latter closes they are converted into so many cavities, enclosing epithelium, which were called by Goodsir, " cavities of reserve." They are ten in number in each jaw, and are formed successively from before back- wards. These cavities soon elongate and recede into the substance of Fig. 222. !■ II. III. IV. V. Pig. 222.—Sketches showing the Relations op the Temporary and Permanent Dental Sacs and Teeth (after Blake, with some additions). The lower parts of the first three figures, which are somewhat enlarged, represent sections of the lower jaw through the alveolus of a temporary incisor tooth : a, indicates the sac of the permanent tooth ; c, its pedicle ; b, the sac of the milk tooth or the milk tooth itself ; a', b', indicate the bony recesses in which the permanent and temporary teeth are lodged, and c', the canal by which that of the former leads to the surface of the bone behind the alveolus of the temporary tooth. The fourth and fifth figures, which are nearly of the natural size, show the same relations in a more advancsd stage, in IV., previous to the change of teeth, in V., when the milk-tooth has fallen out and the per- manent tooth begins to rise in the jaw ; c, the orifice of the bony canal leading to the place of the permanent tooth. Y 2