THE BLOOD. 36 death, blood remains longer fluid in the small veins than in the heart and great vessels ; and even in these the coagulation is usually slow. Agitation of exposed blood accelerates coagulation by increasing its ex- posure to foreign contact. 4. Water, in a proportion not exceeding twice the bulk of the blood, hastens coagulation ; a larger quantity retards it. Blood also coagu- lates more speedily when the serum is of low specific gravity, indicative of much water in proportion to the saline ingredients. 5. Almost every substance that has been tried, except the caustic alkalies, when added to the blood in minute proportion, hastens its coagulation ; although many of the same substances, when mixed with it in somewhat larger quantity, have an opposite effect. The salts of the alkalies and earths, added in the proportion of two or three per cent, and upwards, retard, and, when above a certain quantit}r, suspend or prevent coagulation ; but, though the process be thus suspended, it speedily ensues on diluting the mixture with water. Caustic potash and soda permanently destroy the coagulability of the blood. Acids delay or prevent coagulation. 6. Certain states of the system.—Faintness occasioned by loss of blood favours coagulation ; states of excitement are said to have, though not invariably, the opposite effect. Impeded aeration of the blood in disease, or in suffocative modes of death, makes it slow to coagulate ; probably from retention of carbonic acid. In cold-blooded animals, with slow circulation and low respiration, the blood coagulates less rapidly than in the warm-blooded ; and, among the latter, the tendency of the blood to coagulate is strongest in birds, which have the greatest amount of respiration, and highest temperature. 7. Coagulation commences earlier, and is sooner completed, in arterial than in venous blood. Nasse states that women's blood begins to coagulate sooner than that of the male sex. In general, when blood coagulates quickly, the clot is more bulky and less firm, and the serum is less effectually expressed from it; so that causes which affect the rapidity of coagulation, will also occasion differences in the proportion of the moist clot to the exuded serum. There is no sufficient evidence of evolution of heat or of disengage- ment of carbonic acid from blood during its coagulation, which some have supposed to occur. Theory of Coagulation.—Although it is certain that the coagulation of the hlood consists in solidification of fibrin, and although it seems tolerably well established that this is the result of the combination of two primarily separate animal principles, it is by no means clearly understood how such combination and solidification do not naturally take place within the living body, and how the several conditions already mentioned as influencing the process operate in promoting or opposing coagulation. According to one view, which is fundamentally the same as that entertained by John Hunter and some other British physiologists, and which has been advo- cated by Brucke * the blood has a natural tendency to coagulate ; or, if we may use the language suggested by later researches, the para-globulin and fibrinogen naturally tend to combine ; within the body this tendency is held in check by some inhibitory or restraining influence exercised by the coats of the vessels and the living tissues in contact with the blood ; but when blood is withdrawn from its natural receptacles, or if these lose their vitality, its intrinsic disposition to coagu- late being no longer opposed, is allowed to prevail. At the same time it is not * British and Foreign Medico-Chirurgical Review, vol. xix. 1857.