587 THE LACHRYMAL CANALS. THE LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. The parts which constitute the lachrymal apparatus are the follow- ing, viz. :—The gland by which the tears are secreted, situated at the upper and outer side of the orbit, together with its excretory ducts ; the two canals into which the fluid is received near the inner angle ; and the sac with the nasal duct continued from it, through which the tears pass into the inferior meatus of the nose. The lachrymal gland, an oblong flattened body, about the size of a small almond, is placed in the upper and outer part of the orbit, a little behind the anterior margin. The upper surface of the gland, convex, is lodged in a slight depression in the orbital plate of the frontal bone, to the periosteum of which it adheres by fibrous bands ; the lower sur- face is adapted to the convexity of the eyeball, and is in contact with the upper and the outer recti muscles. The. fore part of the gland, separated from the rest by a thin layer of fascia, and sometimes described as a distinct gland {glandula lachrymalis inferior, Rosenmiiller), is closely adherent to the back of the upper eyelid, and is covered on the ocular surface merely by the conjunctiva ; its lobules are small and separate? with minute ducts, some opening separately, others joining the ducts from the principal gland, which are also very small. The number from both divisions of the gland seldom exceeds twelve or fourteen. After running obliquely under the mucous membrane, and separating at the same time from each other, they open in a row at the fornix conjunc- tivas, by separate orifices, at its upper outer part. In minute structure the lachrymal gland re- sembles the salivary glands. Lachrymal canals.—On the margin of each lid, near the inner angle, and in front of the fold of membrane called plica semilunaris, is a small elevation (papilla lachrymalis), as already mentioned. Each papilla is perfo- rated by a minute aperture, punc- tum lachrymale; and at these apertures commence two narrow canals, canalkuli (fig. 398, 1, 1), which convey the tears from the eye to the lachrymal sac. The upper canal is rather the smaller and longer of the two: it first ascends from the punctum ; then makes a sudden bend, and is directed inwards and downwards to join the lachrymal sac. The lower canal descends from the cor- responding punctum, and then takes a nearly horizontal course inwards. Both canals are dilated where bent. In some cases they unite near the end ; more commonly they open separately, but close together, into the sac. Fig. 398. Fig. 398.—Front of the Left Eyelids, with the Lachrymal Canals and Nasal Duct exposed. 1, 1, upper and lower lachrymal canals, showing towards the eyelids the narrow bent portions and the puncta lachrymalia ; 2, lachrymal sac ; 3, the lower part of the nasal duct; 4, plica semilunaris ; 5, caruncula lachrymalis.