117 VESSELS AND NERVES OF MUSCLE. penetrating the smallest fasciculi, they end in capillary vessels, which run between the fibres. The vessels are supported in their progress by the subdivisions of the sheath of the muscle, to which also they supply capillaries. The capillaries destined for the proper tissue of the muscle are extremely small; they form among the fibres a fine net- work, with narrow oblong meshes (fig. 75), which are stretched out in the direction of the fibres : in other words, they consist of longitudinal and transverse vessels, the former running parallel with the muscular fibres, and lying in the angu- lar intervals between them, —the latter, which are much shorter, crossing between the longitudinal ones, and pass- Hr n xt ° ^ "I +V> f ^S- ' —Capillary Vessels of Muscle, mg over or under tUe inter- from an Injection by Lieberkuhn, seen vening fibres. with a low magnifying power. None of the capillary vessels enter the sarcolemma or proper sheath of the fibre, and the nutritious fluid which they convey must therefore reach the finer elements of the muscle by imbibition. Moreover, as the capillaries do not penetrate the fibres, but lie between them, their number in a given space, or their degree of closeness, will in some measure be regulated by the number and consequently by the size of the fibres ; and accordingly in the muscles of different animals it is found that, when the fibres are small, the vessels are numerous and form a close network, and vice versa: in other words, the smaller the fibres, the greater is the quantity of blood supplied to the same bulk of muscle. In conformity with this, we see that in birds and mammalia, in which the process of nutrition is active, and where the rapid change requires a copious supply of material, the muscular fibres are much smaller and the vessels more numerous than in cold-blooded animals, in which the opposite conditions prevail. Lymphatics.—Of lymphatic vessels in the muscular tissue nothing certain is known. The rich supply of these vessels in the sheaths or muscles and of their tendons would seem, as pointed out by Ludwig and Schweigger-Seidel, to serve the purpose of collecting and convey- ing away the lymph from those organs, but how the fluid reaches the lymphatic vessels of the sheath is not certainly known: probably by the medium of the intercommunicating cell-spaces of the connective tissue which, as before remarked, penetrates between the fasciculi and fibres of the muscle. Nerves.—The nerves of a voluntary muscle are of considerable size. Their branches pass between the fasciculi, and repeatedly unite with each other in form of a plexus, which is for the most part confined to a small part of the length of the muscle, or muscular division in which it lies. From one or more of such primary plexuses, nervous twigs proceed, and form finer plexuses composed of slender bundles, each con- taining not more than two or three dark-bordered nerve-fibres, whence single fibres pass off between the muscular fibres and divide into branches which are finally distributed to the tissue. The mode of final distribution will be described with the general anatomy of the nerves.