696 GENERAL PHENOMENA OF EMBRYONIC DEVELOPMENT. epiblast, and other ocular structures proceed from the mesoblast. In the ear the labyrinth originates by involution of its cavity from the epiblast in the neighbourhood of the third encephalic vesicle, and the auditory nerve growing out from the medullary wall of the third FiS- 507- Fig. 507.—Section of the Com- JL jg (i mencing Eye op an Embryo IN THREE STAGES. A. Commencement of the for- mation of the lens by depression of a part of C, the corneous layer ; pr, the primitive ocular vesicle now doubled back on itself by the depression of the commencing lens. B. The lens depression enclosed and the lens beginning to be formed in the inner side, the optic vessel more folded back. C. A third stage in which the secondary optic vesicle, v, begins to be formed. encephalic vesicle, is subsequently extended into the ear vesicle ; while the middle and outer ear cavities are developed from mesoblastic ele- ments in connection with the first and second post-oral subcranial plates and the intervening pharyngeal cleft. In the nose likewise the open cavity afterwards occupied by the distributed extremities of the olfactory nerves originates by depression or involution from the epiblast in front of the first encephalic vesicle of the cranium. Vascular system.—The next important series of changes by which the foundations of the great organic systems are laid consists in the formation of the rudiments of the heart, blood-vessels and blood, and in the establishment of the first circulation. The several parts of the sanguiferous system all originate in the deeper or splanchnopleural division of the mesoblast, but once formed in this section of the blastoderm the blood-vessels very soon extend into all other parts which are vascular. Fig. 508. A B as soon as the blastodermic cells first simple tubular form of the org; Fig. 508.—Outlines of the anterior HALF OF THE EMBRYO CHICK VIEWED FROM BELOW, SHOWING THE HEART IN ITS EARLIER STAGES OF FORMATION (after Remak). 2f A, Embryo of about 28 to 30 hours ; B, of about 36 to 40 hours ; a, anterior cerebral vesicle ; b, proto-vertebral seg- ments ; c, cephalic fold ; 1, 1, primi- tive omphalo-inesenteric veins entering the heart posteriorly ; 2, their union n the auricle of the heart ; 3, the middle part of the tube corresponding to the ventricle ; 4 (in B) the arterial bulb. The formation of the heart, blood-vessels and blood is nearly simultaneous, and the rhythmic contractions of the heart begin have arranged themselves in the