434 THE PENIS. muscular fibres, and in many of them small blood-vessels and nerves occupy the interior. The intertrabecular spaces thus form a labyrinth of intercommuni- cating venous areolae divided by the trabecular tissue, and opening freely from one corpus cavernosum to the other through the septum, especially in front. The blood is carried away from these spaces by two sets of veins, the one joining the prostatic plexus and pudendal veins below ; the others passing into the dorsal vein superiorly. Of these last some issue from between the corpus cavernosum and the spongy body of the urethra, encircling the penis nearly at right angles, while others pass more directly into the dorsal vein from the upper surface. The principal arteries of the corpora cavernosa are the cavernous branches of the pudic arteries (profundse penis), of the right and left sides ; but the dorsal artery of the penis also sends small twigs through the fibrous sheath of the corpora cavernosa, along the upper surface, especially in the fore part of the penis. Within the cavernous tissue, the numerous branches of arteries are supported by the trabecular, in the middle of which they run, and terminate in two modes ; some of them subdividing into branches of capillary minuteness which open into the intertrabecular spaces; while others form tendril-like twigs which project into the spaces, and end in peculiar curling dilated extremities to which attention was first called by J. Miiller, who named them heli- cine arteries, and regarded them as a special structure belonging to the erectile tissue. The extremity of each curled dilatation would appear Fig. 315.—Helicine Arteries with their sheaths, &c. (from Henle). Magnified with a low* power. A and B, from the corpus cavernosum penis ; D, from the corpus spongiosum urethrse ; C, transverse section of one of the helicine arteries ; in this and the other figures the smaller lateral pro- longations of the arterial vessels into the sheath are shown ; * *, fasciculi of con- nective tissue passing off from the sum- mit of two of the sheaths. to be bound down by a small fibrous band, which according to Henle is usually solid, but is said by Kolliker to contain a capillary continuation of the blood-vessel. The helicine ar- teries are most abundant in the posterior part of the corpora cavernosa, and are found in the corresponding part of the corpus spongiosum also; but they have not been seen in the glans penis. Various views have been taken by different anatomists of the nature of these tufted vascular processes. The very full researches of Langer appear to show that they are nothing Fig. 315.