DEVELOPMENT OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 752 form of this region of the head has already been adverted to, and need not be repeated here. H^'As regards the earliest phenomena of development in the brain itself, there are three changes which mainly tend to modify its form in the most marked degree, viz., 1st, the development from the anterior vesicle on each side of the primitive ocular vesicle; 2nd, the expansion from another part, somewhat later, of the vesicles of the cerebral hemis- pheres; and 3rd, the formation in the forepart of the posterior encephalic vesicle of a new cerebral rudiment corresponding to the cerebellum. Fig. 553.—Sketches of the Primitive Parts of the Human Brain (from Kolliker). 1, 2, and 3 are from the human embryo of about seven weeks. 1, view of the whole embryo from behind, the brain and spinal cord exposed ; 2, the posterior, and 3, the lateral view of the brain removed from the body; h, the cerebral hemisphere (prosen- cephalon) ; i, the thalamencephalon ; i', the infundibulum at the lower part of the same ; vi, the middle primary vesicle (mesen- cephalon) ; c, the cerebellum (epencephalon) ; m o, the medulla oblongata. Figure 3 shows also the several curves which take place in the development of the parts from the primi- tive medullary tube. In 4, a lateral view is given of the brain of a human embryo of three months : the enlargement of the cerebral hemisphere has covered in the optic thalami, leaving the tubercula quadrigemina, m, apparent. The formation of the primitive ocular vesicles, by an evolution of the lateral wall of the primitive medullary tube, gives to the first vesicle and the adjacent part of the 'head a much greater lateral width ; but the cranial wall, though pushed out by the enlarging ocular vesicles, does not follow closely the inflection of their surfaces. As the subse- quent contraction of the stalk of the ocular vesicles progresses, these vesicles are thrown more backwards and downwards by the change next to be described. This is the evolution or expansion of the wall of the anterior ence- phalic vesicle into the two cerebral hemispheres, which takes place in front and at each side, so that the vesicles of the right and left hemis- pheres are from the first separate and distinct. As these vesicles become dilated, the cranial wall undergoes a corresponding expansion in the forepart of the head, and the vesicle of the thalamencephalon, which was at first the foremost part of the embryo-head, is thrown downwards and backwards into a deeper position. The middle encephalic vesicle, increasing greatly in size, takes the most prominent part of the head superiorly, both from its own greater relative magnitude, and from the sudden bend which the head now takes below this vesicle in the great cranial curvature. The formation of the cerebellum begins by a thickening in the upper and lateral walls of the part of the posterior primitive vesicle which is next to the midbrain, and is accompanied by a deep inflection of the medullary tube between it and the remaining part of the vesicle which forms the medulla oblongata.