396 THE PANCREAS. the inner curved border of the duodenum, is attached more particularly to the descending and transverse portion of that intestine, encroach- ing slightly on both the anterior and posterior surface. The ductus communis choledochus passes down behind the head of the pancreas, and is generally received into a groove or canal in its substance. Structure.—The pancreas belongs to the class of compound race- mose glands. In its general characters, and also in its intimate structure it closely resembles the salivary glands, to the description of the minute structure of which the reader is referred (p. 339). It is somewhat looser and softer in its texture than those organs, the lobes and lobules being less compactly arranged. The alveolar cells differ from those of the submaxillary gland in not containing mucus, resembling in this respect the cells of the parotid : moreover, the columnar cells of the ducts appear to be devoid of the striated base seen in those of the submaxillary, and the ducts themselves have an irregular, angular shape : but in all essential points of structure, and in the distribution of the vessels and nerves, the two glands, as far as is known, entirely agree. The principal excretory duct (fig. 282, e), called the pancreatic duct or canal of Wirsung (by whom it was discovered in the human subject in 1642), runs through the entire length of the gland, from left to right, buried completely in its substance, and placed rather nearer its lower than its upper border. Commencing by the union of the small ducts derived from the groups of lobules composing the tail of the pancreas, and receiving in succession at various angles, and from all sides, the ducts from the body of the gland, the canal of Wirsung in- creases in size as it advances towards the head of the pancreas, where, amongst other large branches, it is usually joined by one derived from that portion of the gland called the lesser pancreas. Carving slightly downwards, the pancreatic duct then comes into contact with the left side of the ductus communis choledochus, which it accompanies to the back part of the descending portion of the duodenum. Here the two ducts, placed side by side, pass very obliquely through the muscular and areolar coats of the intestine, and terminate, as already described, on its internal mucous surface, by a common orifice, situated at the junction of the descending and horizontal portions of the duo- denum, between three and four inches below the pylorus. The pan- creatic duct, with its branches, is readily distinguished from the glandu- lar substance, by the very white appearance of its thin fibrous walls. Its widest part, near the duodenum, is from 1 line to 1J line in diameter, or nearly the size of an ordinary quill; but it may be easily distended beyond that size. It is lined by a remarkably thin and smooth mucous membrane, which near the termination of the duct occasionally presents a few scattered recesses. Varieties.—Sometimes the duct is double up to its point of entrance into the duodenum ; and a still further deviation from the ordinary condition is not unfrequently observed, in which there is a supplementary duct, derived from the lesser pancreas or some part of the head of the gland, opening into the duodenum by a distinct orifice, at a distance of an inch or more from the termination of the principal duct. It sometimes occurs that the pancreatic duct and the common bile duct open separately into the duodenum. Vessels and Nerves.—Like the salivary glands, the pancreas receives its blood-vessels at numerous points. Its arteries are derived from the splenic and from the superior and inferior pancreatico-duodenal branches of the hepatic and