■193 EXTERNAL FORM. of its membranes, the spinal cord is seen to be marked by longi- tudinal fissures. Of these, two, which are the most obvious, run along Fig. 346.—Lower Part op the Spinal Cord with the Cauda Equina and Sheath, seen from be- hind (Allen Thomson). J The sheath has been opened from behind and stretched towards the sides ; on the left side all the roots of the nerves are entire ; on the right side both roots of the first and second lumbar nerves are entire, while the rest have been divided close to the place of their passage through the sheath. • The bones of the coccyx are sketched in their natural relative position to show the place of the filum terminale and the lowest nerves. a, placed on the posterior median fissure at the middle of the lumbar enlargement of the cord ; b, b, the terminal filament, drawn slightly aside by a hook at its middle, and descending within the dura-matral sheath ; b', b', its prolongation beyond the sheath and upon the back of the coccygeal bones ; c, the dura-matral sheath ; d, double foramina for the separate passage of the anterior and posterior roots of each of the nerves ; e, pointed ends of several pro- cesses of the ligamentum denticulatum ; Dx, and Dxu, the tenth and twelfth dorsal nerves ; Li, and Lv, the first and fifth lumbar nerves ; Si, and Sv, the first and fifth sacral nerves ; Ci, the coccygeal nerve. Fig. 346. the middle line, one in front and the other behind, and are named the anterior and pos- terior median fissures. The anterior median fissure (fig. 347, 1) is more distinct than the posterior, and pene- trates 'about one-third of the thickness of the cord, its depth increasing towards the lower end. It contaius a fold of the pia mater, and also many blood-vessels, which are thus conducted to the centre of the cord. At the bottom of this fissure is seen the transverse connecting portion of white sub- stance named the anterior white commissure. The posterior median fissure (fig. 347, 2) is less marked in the greater part of its extent than the anterior, but becomes more evident towards the upper part of the cord. Its posi- tion is marked, especially in the lumbar en- largement and in the cervical region, by a superficial furrow. It is not an actual fissure, for, although the lateral halves of the posterior part of the cord are quite separate, there is no distinct inflection of the pia mater be- tween them, but merely a septum of connec- tive tissue and blood-vessels which passes in nearly to the centre of the cord, as far as the posterior grey commissure. Besides these two median fissures, two lateral furrows or fissures have