THE CEREBRUM. 542 layer, and beneath them is cineritious matter continuous with that of the surface of the hemisphere. Along the inner edge of this eminence is seen a narrow white band, named corpus fimbriatum or tamia hippocampi (fig. 381, 6), which is prolonged from the fornix ; to the inner side of the taenia is a part of the choroid plexus, and next to that the back of Fig. 381, A.—Lower and Back Part of the Cerebrum of the Left Side, showing the Posterior and Descending Cornua of the Lateral Ventricle opened (altered from Hirschfeld and Leveille). ^ 1, Apex of temporo-sphenoidal lobe ; V, un- cinate convolution ; 2, cut surface of the cere- bral hemisphere ; 3, point of the posterior cornu of the lateral ventricle ; 3', eminentia collateralis ; 4, cut surface of the lower and back part of the corpus cailosum divided near the middle ; 4', placed on the extension of the corpus cailosum into the cerebral hemisphere, points by a line to the hippocampus minor in the posterior cornu ; 5, cut edge of the posterior pillar of the fornix passing down at 5', into the hippocampus major and corpus fimbriatum ; 6, placed on the hipj)ocampus major points to the continuation of the corpus fimbriatum or taenia hippocampi; 6', lower part of hippo- campus major ; 7, fascia dentata on the inside of the white substance of the taenia. Fig. 381, B.—Section of the Right Hippo- campus Major to show the arrangement of the Grey and White Substance (from Mayo). a, white layer on the surface of the hippo- campus ; b, grey substance which is involuted from the surface of the neighbouring convolution ; c, fascia dentata ; d, uncinate convolution ; be- tween c and d dentate fissure ; e, (placed on the eminentia collateralis) cavity of the lateral ventricle. the optic thalamus. This cornu differs from the others in respect that it is not a mere cul-de-sac, but, by the separation of the membranes, can be made to communicate in its whole length with the surface of the brain by the fissure through which the choroid plexus enters. The posterior cornu projects backwards into the substance of the posterior lobe. At its extremity it is pointed, and directed inwards. On its inner side is a curved and pointed longitudinal eminence, named hippocampus minor, ergot, or calcar avis; and at the junction of the posterior with the descending cornu, between the hippocampus major and minor, is a smooth eminence, named eminentia collateralis, or pes accessorius, which may extend some way down the descending cornu behind the great hippocampus. The hippocampus minor is only the convex side of the fold of cortical substance which forms the calcarine sulcus, and in like manner the eminentia collateralis corresponds with the posterior branch of the fissure of Sylvius. Fig. 381.