FAT. 61 but forms no special envelope to the smaller clusters ; and although fine fasciculi and filaments of that tissue pass irregularly over and through the clusters, yet it is probable that the vesicles are held together in these groups mainly by the fine network of capillary vessels distributed to them. In the marrow the connective tissue is very scanty ; indeed, the fat-cells in some parts of the bones are said to be altogether unaccompanied by connective filaments. The adipose tissue is copiously supplied with "blood-vessels. The larger branches of these pass into the fat-lumps, where they run between the lobules and subdivide, till at length a little artery and vein are sent to each small lobule, dividing into a network of capillary vessels, which not only surrounds the cluster externally, but passes through between the vesicles in all directions, supporting and connecting them. The lymphatics of the fat are in close relation to the blood-vessels, accompanying and occasionally completely enclosing them, as they enter the lobule. No nerves have been seen to terminate in this tissue, although nerves destined for other textures may pass through it. Accordingly it has been observed that, unless when such traversing nervous twigs happen to be encountered, a puncturing instrument may be carried through the adipose tissue without occasioning pain. Uses and Amount.—As to the uses of the fatty tissue, it may be observed, in the first place, that it serves the merely mechanical purpose of a light, soft, and elastic packing material to fill vacuities in the body. Being thus deposited between and around different organs, it affords them support, facilitates motion, and protects them from the injurious effects of pressure. In this way, too, it gives to the exterior of the body its smooth, rounded contour. Further, being a bad conductor of heat, the subcutaneous fat must so far serve as a means of retaining the warmth of the body, especially in warm-blooded creatures exposed to great external cold, as the whale and other cetaceous animals, in which it forms a very thick stratum. But the most important use of the fat is in the process of nutrition. Com- posed chiefly of carbon and hydrogen, it is absorbed into the blood and consumed in respiration, combining with oxygen to form carbonic acid and water, and thus contributing with other hydrocarbonous matters to maintain the heat of the body ; and it is supposed that when the digestive process introduces into the system more carbon and hydrogen than is required for immediate consumption, the excess of those elements is stored up in the form of fat, to become available for use when the expenditure exceeds the immediate supply. According to this view, active muscular exercise, which increases the respiration, tends to prevent the accumulation of fat by increasing the consumption of the hydrocarbonous matter introduced into the body. Again, when the direct supply of calorific matter for respiration is diminished or cut off by withholding food, or by interruption of the digestive process, nature has recourse to that which has been reserved in the form of fat; and in the wasting of the body caused by starvation, the fat is the part first consumed. The use of the fat in nutrition is well illustrated by what occurs in the hedge- hog and some other hybernating animals. In these the function of alimentation is suspended during their winter sleep ; and though their respiration is reduced to the lowest amount compatible with life, and their temperature falls, there is yet a considerable amount of hydrocarbonous material provided in the shape of fat, before their hybernation commences, to be slowly consumed during that period, or perhaps to afford an immediate supply on their respiration becoming again active in spring. It has been estimated that the mean quantity of fat in the human subject is about one-twentieth of the weight of the body, but from what has been said, it is plain that the amount must be subject to great fluctuation. The proportion