THE HEART. 252 fibrocartilaginous thickening, the nodulus or corpus AranUi (fig. 173,b,3). Other tendinous fibres, arising from the attached border, run in the valve towards the nodule ; occupying its whole extent, except two narrow Fig. 173.—Views of parts op the Semilunar and Mitral Valves, as seen from within the Ventricle (Allen Thom- son). A, portion of the pulmonary artery and wall of the right ven- tricle with one entire segment and two half segments of the valve ; a, half the sinus of Valsalva of the left anterior segment; b, the same of the posterior segment; c, the entire right anterior sinus (see fig. 172, I, in which the lettering is the same as in the present figure) ; d, d', inner surface of the ventricle; 1, the attachment of the extremities of the segments to the inner wall of the artery; 2, the middle of the attached border of the segments ; 3, the middle of the free border (corpus Arantii). B, portion of the aorta and wall of the left ventricle with one entire segment and two half segments of the aortic valve, and the right or anterior segment of the mitral valve ; a, half the left posterior segment and sinus of Valsalva ; b, the left anterior ; c, the right posterior sinus of Valsalva and segment entire ; in a, and b, the apertures of the coronary arteries are seen ; d, d', the inner surface of the wall of the ventricle ; 1, 2, and 3, as before ; e, e', the base of the anterior segment of the mitral valve ; /, its apex; between e, and e', and /, the attachment of the branched chordae tendinesa to the margin and outer surface of the valve segment ; g, the poste- rior or right principal musculus papillaris ; h, the anterior or left principal musculus papillaris : the cut chorda? tendinese are those which belong to the posterior segment and the small or inter- mediate segments. lunated portions, one on each side, adjoining the free margin of the valve. These parts, which are named lunula (fig. 173, B), are therefore thinner than the rest. There is also a strengthening fibrous cord surrounding the attached border of each valve. The wall both of the aorta and pulmonary artery is bulged out opposite each semilunar flap : these bulgings are known as the sinuses of Valsalva. In the aorta these are situated one anteriorly and two posteriorly (right