THE EAR, 648 of the sacculns. The nerves of the ampullae enter the flattened or least prominent side of the ampullae, where they each form a forked swelling (4, 5, fig. 460), which corresponds with the transverse septum already described, in the interior of the dilatation. No nerves have been found extending to any other parts of the semicircular canals. Structure.—Three layers can be distinguished in .the membranous walls of the semicircular canals, an outer fibrous stratum, an inner epithelial lining, and between the two a homogeneous tunica propria. These layers are not of equal thickness throughout, for at those parts where the walls are in contact with and supported by the bone (fig. 461, 6), or rather its periosteal lining, namely, along the side which is turned towards the convexity of the semicircle, they are thinner than at the rest of the circumference, where they lie free and are bathed by the perilymph. The difference in thickness affects the fibrous layer and the tunica propria only, for the epithelium forms throughout a lining of simple flattened cells. Fig. 462. Fig. 462.—Section of Membranous Semicircular Canal, much Magnified (Riidinger). 1, outer fibrous layer ; 2, tunica propria ; 3, 6, papilliform projections with epithelial covering ; 5, fixed side of the canal, with very thin tunica propria without papilla?; 7, fibrous bands passing to periosteum. The fibrous layer (fig. 462, l), which contains some irregular pigment- cells, is apparently composed of ordinary fibrous tissue, similar to that of the periosteum, with which it becomes continuous at the parts where the two structures are in contact. It is especially developed at the ends of the oval section, whence well-marked bands of fibrous tissue pass to the periosteum (fig. 462, V). From here, also, the more delicate bands of fibrous tissue above described commonly arise, which traverse the perilymph to become connected with the periosteum of the opposite wall of the canal (fig. 461, 2). Both along these bands and also more directly from the contiguous periosteum, numerous small blood-vessels pass into the fibrous layer and there break up into a coarse capillary network, the branches of which do not, in man, pass into the tunica propria.