176 BLOOD-YESSELS. larger ones like the veins ; but the diameter of the tubes, as well as the shape and size of the reticular meshes which they form, differs in different textures. Their prevalent size in the human body may, speaking generally, be stated at from ^'-J^ to °f an iucn> as measured when naturally filled with blood. But they are said to be in some parts considerably smaller, and in others larger than this standard: thus, Weber has measured injected capillaries in the brain, which he found to be not wider than ttVo °f an inch, and Henle has observed some still smaller,—in both cases apparently smaller than the natural diameter of the blood-corpuscles. The capillaries, however, when deprived of blood, probably shrink in calibre immediately after death; and this consideration, together with the fact that their distension by artificial injection may exceed or fall short of what is natural, should make us hesitate on such evidence to admit the existence of vessels incapable of receiving the red particles of the blood. The diameter of the capillaries of the marrow, or of the medullary membrane, is stated as high as y^Vq of an inch. In other parts, their size varies between these extremes : it is small in the lungs, small also in muscle ; larger in the skin and mucous mem- branes. The extreme branches of the arteries and the commencing veins in certain parts of the synovial membranes are connected by capillary loops, which are considerably dilated at their point of flexure. There are differences also in the size or width of the meshes of the capillary network in different parts, and consequently in the number of vessels distributed in a given space, and the amount of blood supplied to the tissue. The network is very close in the lungs and in the choroid coat of the eye, close also in muscle, in the skin, and in most mucous Fig. 116. Fig- 117. Fig. 116.—Injected Capillary Vessels op Muscle, seen with a low magnifying power. Fig. 117.—Network of Capillary Vessels of the Air-Cells of the Horse's Lung, magnified. a, a, capillaries proceeding from i, I, terminal branches of the pulmonary artery (after Frey). membranes, in glands and secreting structures, and in the grey part