BELATION OF SYMPATHETIC TO CEREBRO-SPINAL NERVES. 157 in the first instance to other ganglia of greater or less size (sometimes named prevertebral) situated in the thorax, abdomen, and pelvis, and usually collected into groups or coalescing into larger ganglionic masses near the roots of the great arteries of the viscera. 4. Numerous plex- uses of nerves, sent off from these visceral or prae-vertebral ganglia to the viscera, usually creeping along the branches of arteries, and con- taining in various parts little ganglia disseminated among them. Some of these plexuses also receive contributions from spinal or cerebral nerves, by means of branches which immediately proceed to them without previously joining the main series of ganglia. Structure of the sympathetic nerve-trunks. — The nervous cords of the sympathetic consist of white fibres, and of pale or grey fibres, mixed with a greater or less amount of filamentous connective tissue, and inclosed in a common external fibro-areolar sheath. The white fibres differ greatly from each other in thickness. A few are of large size, ranging from ¥qVo *° tsVo °f an ulcn : but most of them are much smaller, measuring from about -^Vo ^° tjoo °f an incn *n diameter, and, though having a well-defined sharp outline, for the most part fail to present the distinct double contour seen in the larger and more typical examples of the medullated fibre. The pale, non- medullated fibres, have the characters of Remak's grey fibres, already described, and often look as if made up of exquisitely fine fibrils ; there are also pale fibres of much less thickness, which, at short dis- tances, are interrupted by, or might be said to swell out into, fusi- form, nuclei. The fibres are in the large trunks collected into bundles or funiculi, the proper sheath of which, or neurilemma, agrees in structure with that met with in the cerebro-spinal nerves {vide cmtea, p. 140). The more grey-looking branches or bundles of the sympathetic consist of a large number of the pale fibres mixed with a few of the medullated kind ; the whiter cords, on the other hand, contain a pro- portionally large amount of medullated fibres, and fewer of the grey; and in some parts of the nerve grey fasciculi and white fasciculi, re- spectively constituted as above described, run alongside of each other in the same cords for a considerable space without mixing. This arrange- ment may be seen in some of the branches of communication with the spinal nerves, in the trunk or cord which connects together the principal chain of ganglia, and in the primary branches proceeding from thence to the viscera. In the last-mentioned case the different fasciculi get more mixed as they advance, but generally it is only after the white fasciculi have passed through one or more ganglia that they become thoroughly blended with the grey; and then, too, the nervous cords receive a large accession of grey fibres (apparently derived from the ganglia), which are mixed up with the rest, and take off more and more from their whiteness. Relation of the sympathetic to the cerebro-spinal nerves.—On this impor- tant question two very different opinions have long existed, in one modification or another, amongst anatomists. 1. According to one, which is of old date, but which has been revived and ably advocated by Valentin, the sympathetic set of nerves is a mere dependency, offset, or embranchment of the cerebro-spinal system of nerves, containing no fibres but such as centre in the brain and cord, although it is held that these fibres are modified in their motor and sensory properties in passing through the ganglia in their way to and from the viscera and involun- tary organs. 2. According to the other view, the sympathetic nerve (commonly