651 THE MEMBRANOUS LABYRINTH. further investigation being necessary to inquire into the relative accu- racy of the two views. The spindle- or fibre-cells and the auditory hairs were first described by Max Schultze * and bring to mind the so-called olfactory cells of the nasal mucous membrane, to be presently described, and the gustatory cells which are met with in the special organs of taste. Moreover, as we shall immediately see, cells bearing similar stiffly projecting hairs are met with also in the cochlea; and in all these places it is thought probable that there is a direct connection between the hair-bearing cells and the nerves of special sense, although owing to the extremely delicate nature of the parts and the difficulty of manipulation, such connection has, perhaps, never yet been undoubtedly observed. The minute structure of the parts just described has been chiefly worked out in the comparatively large membranous labyrinth of fishes, but is no doubt more or less similar in all vertebrata. The foregoing description, although referring more particularly to the characters of the epithelium and mode of nerve distribution in the crista acusticae of the ampullae, is equally applicable to the maculae acusticae of the saccule and utricle. The nerves which are supplied to the maculae seem, however, to spread out more and to be less markedly limited in their distribution than those which go to the ampullae (see fig. 460). Both saccule and utricle contain in their cavity and lying in contact with the nerve-epithelium a little mass of otoliths, which, how- ever, do not float free in the fluid, but appear enclosed in a delicate cuticular investment. Otoliths are also found scattered here and there in the ampullae and semicircular canals. Their use is not sufficiently known. Cochlea.—The membranous cochlea resembles the membranous Fig. 465.—Left Cochlea of a Child some Weeks Old (Reichert). f The drawing was taken from a specimen which had been preserved in alcohol, and was afterwards dried ; a section is made so as to show the lamina spiralis, scala?, and cochlear canal in each of the three coils : the membranous spiral lamina is preserved, but the appearances connected with the organ of Corti, &c, have been lost from drying. / r, fenestra rotunda with its membrane ; s t, scala tympani; s v, scala vestibuli ; I s, lamina spiralis ; h, hamulus ; c c, canalis cochlea? ; d, opening of the aqueductus cochlea?. Fig. 466.—Vertical Section op the Cochlea op a Fcetal Calf (Kolliker). § In this specimen the external wall was ossified, but the modiolus and spiral lamina were still cartilaginous ; the section shows in each part of the cochlear tube the two scala? with the intermediate canalis cochlea? and lamina spiralis. Fig. 465. Fig. 466. * Muller's Archiv, 1858.