HYALINE CARTILAGE. mistaken. (See fig. 44.) Near the margin of these cartilages a layer of fine filamentous tissue is prolonged a certain way over their surface from the synovial membrane, and the cartilage-cells in the neighbour- hood of this acquire processes and present transitions to the connective- tissue corpuscles of that membrane (fig. 45.) The matrix of articular cartilage rarely, or perhaps never, becomes pervaded by fibres like those so often seen in rib cartilage, nor is it prone to ossify. In the costal cartilages, the corpuscles or cells, which are of large size are also collected in groups. Near the exterior of the cartilage they are flattened, and lie parallel with the surface, forming a superficial stratum from ^^th to ^ih of an inch thick. As to those situated more inwardly, we can sometimes observe, in a transverse slice, that they form oblong groups disposed in lines radiating to the circumference ; but this arrangement is not constant, and they often appear quite irre- gular. The cells, with the exception of those lying upon the surface, commonly contain larger or smaller drops of oil; and the nucleus, being generally undiscoverable, is concealed by the fat or may itself have undergone a fatty metamorphosis. The matrix is tolerably clear, except where fibres have been developed in it, in which parts it is opaque and yellowish. Such fibrous patches are very frequent; the fibres are fine, straight, and parallel, appearing transparent when few together; they appear to withstand the action of acetic acid. It is not uncommon to find the rib-cartilages extensively ossified. The description given of the microscopic characters of the costal cartilages will apply with little variation to the ensiform cartilage of the sternum, to the cartilages of the larynx and windpipe, except the epiglottis and cornicula laryngis, and to the cartilages of the nose. With the exception of the last, these resemble the rib-cartilages also in their tendency to ossify. The characters of the temporary cartilages, which are hyaline, will be noticed in the account of the formation of bone. Vessels and nerves.—In the healthy state, no blood-vessels pene- trate the articular cartilages. Whatever nutrient fluid they require seems to be derived from the vessels of adjoining textures, especially the bone, and to be conveyed through the tissue by imbibition. To- wards the circumference of the cartilage, however, underneath the synovial membrane, the synovial vessels form a narrow vascular border round it, which has been named the circulus articuli vasculosus. When the tissue exists in thicker masses, as in the cartilages of the ribs, canals are here and there excavated in its substance, along which vessels are conducted to supply nourishment to the parts too distant to receive it from the vessels of the perichondrium. But these canals are few and wide apart, and the vessels do not pass beyond them to ramify in the intermediate mass, which is accordingly quite extravascular. It must be further remembered respecting these vascular canals, that many of them lead to spots where the cartilage is undergoing ossification, and convey vessels to supply the bony deposits. No nerves have been traced into any of the cartilages, and they are known to be destitute of sensibility. Composition.—Ordinary permanent hyaline cartilage contains about three fifths of its weight of water, and becomes transparent by drying. By boiling it in water for fifteen or twenty hours, it is resolved into chondrin. This is a sub- stance said to gelatinise on cooling, although it may be doubted whether the