PRIMITIVE FORM OF THE BRAIN. 751 any other parts ; so that the head of the embryo consists at first of no more than the wider part of the medullary tube and the simple enclosing wall. Fig. 551. a. b c D Fig. 551.—Four Views op the Brain of an Embryo-kitten in the Stage op First Division into the Five Cerebral Rudiments, magnified Three Diameters (from Reichert). A, from above ; B, from the side ; C, vertical section showing the interior ; D, from below. 1, Cerebral hemisphere, prosencephalon; 2, thalamencephalon■; 3, mesencephalon,- still single ; 4, cerebellum, epencephalon ; 5, myelencephalon, medulla oblongata ; o, optic nerves ; V, fifth pair ; VIII, eighth pair or glossopharyngeal and pneumogastric ; i, infundibulum ; v, v', general ventricular cavity, opening at v, into the lateral ventricle by the foramen of Monro. In the base of this wall, it will be remembered that the notochord extends forward beneath the posterior and middle of the vesicles, and occupies, therefore, the part of the cranium corresponding to the occi- pito-sphenoidal basis, while the trabecule cranii, developed forwards Fig. 552.—Vertical Sections of Embryonic Brains in two Stages op Transition prom the Rudimentary Condition, Magnified three Diameters (from Reichert). A, Brain of the embryo pig in commencing state of transition. 1, Right cerebral hemi- sphere ; 2, thalamencephalon and position of the pineal gland ; 3, midbrain, with a large cavity ; /, foramen of Monro ; i, infundibulum; 4, cerebellum ; 5, medulla oblongata. B, Brain of the embryo of the cat more advanced, c, Cerebral hemisphere passing back- wards so as to cover the other parts in succes- sion ; I, olfactory bulb ; II, optic nerve ; th, thalamus opticus ; /, foramen of Monro ; cc, cor- pus callosum ; p, pineal gland ; i, infundibulum ; cq, corpora quadrigemina, not yet divided ; 3, third ventricle ; cr, crura cerebri, the aque- duct of Sylvius, now reduced in width ; c', cere- bellum ; 4, fourth ventricle ; pv, Pons Varolii; m, medulla oblongata. from below the anterior vesicle, are prolonged in the anterior or spheno- ethmoidal part. The latter cerebral rudiment, therefore, which corre- sponds to the thalami optici and third ventricle, and which may with Huxley be conveniently called thalamencephalon, is at first the foremost part of the brain, and the region of the pituitary fossa lying below it is the foremost part of the cranial basis. The manner in which the deve- lopment of the trabecules and other elements of the face modifies the vol. il 3 c Fig. 552.