782 DEVELOPMENT OF THE ABDOMINAL GLANDS. liver, with respect to the exact share of the hypoplastic and mesoblastic elements in the formation of the glandular cells. The main duct and its branches undoubtedly owe their origin to diverticula proceeding from the intestinal hypoblast, and the epithelial lining of the ducts is doubt- less derived from that source. By those who consider that the glan- dular cells also arise from the hypoblast, solid processes of that layer are described as stretching into the mass of mesoblast. Into these the diverticular cavities subsequently extend in more than one main divi- sion. The blood-vessels and the connective tissue of the gland are undoubtedly due to the mesoblastic elements, and these are very soon combined with the parts proceeding from hypoblast. The Spleen.—This organ appears soon after the pancreas as a thickening of the mesogastrium, and is therefore entirely mesoblastic in its origin. (Peremeschko, Vienna Acad., 1867, and W. Midler in Strieker's Histol.) The gradual formation of the trabecular structure from one set of cells and of the blood-vessels and cellular elements of the organ from the blastemic substance has been traced. The pulp is formed in connection with the veins, and the arteries are formed along with the Malpighian corpuscles. The spleen is closely related to the pancreas in its origin, but it is later of being formed and contains no hypoblastic elements. In the human foetus of about twelve weeks its shape can be recognised, but the Malpighian bodies are not visible till the middle of foetal life. Lymphatic Glands.—The development of the mesenteric lymphatic glands has been observed by Sertoli in mammals. (Vienna Acad., 1866.) The blastema from which they are produced is imbedded in the mesentery, and is therefore entirely mesoblastic. The gradual differentiation of the blastema gives rise in succession to the lymph spaces, the trabecular and the lymph cells, and the distinction follows between inferent and efferent lymphatic vessels. The development of lymphatic vessels has been described in the General Anatomy, p. 191. The Thymus and Thyroid Glands.—The development of these bodies has been described in an earlier part of this volume, pp. 297 and 299. The thymus gland proceeds entirely from mesoblastic tissue ; but, according to the researches of W. Miiller (Jenaisch. Zeitsch., 1871), it would appear that the thyroid body arises at first as a diver- ticulum from the pharynx, and it therefore contains some hypoblastic elements. DEVELOPMENT OP THE LUNGS AND TRACHEA. The lungs first appear as two small protrusions upon the front of the oesophageal portion of the alimentary canal, completely hid by the rudimentary heart and liver. These primitive protrusions or tubercles are visible in the chick on the third day of incubation, and in the embryoes of mammalia and of man at a corresponding stage of advance- ment. Their internal cavities communicate with the oesophagus, and- are lined by a prolongation of the hypoblast. At a later period they •are connected with the oesophagus by means of a long pedicle, which ultimately forms the trachea, whilst the bronchia and air-cells are developed by the progressive ramification of the internal cavity in the form of CEecal tubes, after the manner of the ducts of glands. The diverticulum of hypoblast is surrounded by a mass of meso- blastic cells, so that the pulmonary parenchyma, like that of the glands,