775 PRIMARY FORM OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. sages communicating with it, is at first extremely thin and simple, and is composed of flat cells; but as soon as this layer comes to form a part of the inflected alimentary tube, its character is completely altered, its cells become cylindrical, and it attains a great proportional thickness,, which it preserves for a considerable time. Fig. 576.—Early form of the Alimentary Canal (from Kolliker after Bischoff). In A a front view, and in B an anteropos- terior section are repre- sented. a, fonr pharyngeal or visceral plates; b, the pharynx ; c, c, the com- mencing kings ; d, the stomach ; /, /, the di- verticula connected with the formation of the liver; g, the yolk-sac into which the middle intestinal groove opens ; h, the posterior part of the in- testine. The outer surface of the inflected hypoblast of the alimentary tube is. more or less in contact with the splanchno-pleure division of the mesoblast. In the head no marked separation of the splanchnopleure and somato- pleure divisions of the mesoblast takes place, but the elements of the former- are no doubt combined with the hypoblast in the walls of the pharynx, and the formation of the tympano-eustachian and following pharyngeal clefts is therefore due to the perforation of both epiblastic and hypo- plastic layers with intervening mesoblastic tissue, just as occurs in the formation of the opening of the fauces. But in the thorax and abdomen, the primitive alimentary canal is brought into relation with the pleuro-peritoneal cavity, and receives in various parts a serous investment from the lining membrane which becomes developed in that space. In the thorax the right and left cavities remain distinct as the two pleurae, while a central portion is separated for the forma- tion of the pericardium, and thus the gullet, as well as the lungs, is brought into relation with the pleurae, and receives partial covering from them. The formation of the diaphragm, which does not at first exist, and which grows down from the vertebral column as a partition between the thorax and abdomen, leads to the ultimate separation of the peritoneum from the pleurae. Some examples of diaphragmatic hernia may be considered as arising from the persistence of the original connection between the two cavities. In the abdomen, also, the right and left peritoneal cavities are at first distinct, but when the intestine assumes a tubular form, the right and left cavities are thrown into one across the middle plane of the body. As the development of the alimentary canal proceeds, the middle open part shortens, more and more of it being converted into the tubular intestine, and at last, as before explained, there remains only