THE NOSE. 664 onwards with a plexiform arrangement, at first in more or less distinct but anastomosing cords (fig. 477, b, 3), contained in distinct canals in the bony lamina, but afterwards spreading out into an almost continuous stratum of intermingling fibres, to be again gathered up, near the edge of the osseous lamina, into conical bundles which turn abruptly upwards, and passing through the elongated apertures previously de- scribed, in the membranous stratum covering the bone, enter amongst the epithelial structures which form the organ of Corti, in the region of the inner hair-cells. Little is known positively with regard to the actual mode of ending of the nerves amongst these structures. As they pass through the apertures in the membrane, they lose their medullary sheath and dark borders, and are continued as simple axis-cylinders. Their farther course is still a matter of doubt. Some of them are stated by Wal- deyer to pass directly into the lower ends of the inner hair-cells, and others to pass outwards between the rods of Corti, stretching across the tunnel which these enclose, eventually ending in the outer hair-cells, but these statements, although not improbable, yet require confirmation. It is possible that the real termination of the nerves is to be found not in the hair-cells themselves but in the subjacent irregular protoplasmic cells, which both in the character of their nucleus, and in other par- ticulars are not very unlike nerve-cells. The following numbers show the average dimensions of various parts of the human cochlea. They are copied from Waldeyer (article " Cochlea " in Strieker's Handbook), and represent the size in micromillimeters.* Cochlear canal, breadth, 1st turn ...... 800 „ „ „ 2nd turn 700 ,, ,, , extreme height ...... 500 Eeissner's membrane, breadth, 1st turn . . . . . 900 „ „ „ 2nd turn . . . .700 Limbus laminse spiralis, breadth, 1st turn . . . . 300 2nd turn . . . 200—250 Eods of Corti, space between attachment of feet . 66—70 ,, ,, height of arch . . . . . . . 12 ,, „ length of inner rods ..... 50 „ ,, length of outer rods ..... 60—66 Hair-cells, length of inner . . . . . . .18 „ ., length of outer, with basilar process . . . 48 ,, ,, length of hairlets . . .. . . 4 Membrana tectoria, extreme breadth .... 200—230 ,, „ extreme thickness . . . . .50 THE NOSE. The nose is the special organ of the sense of smell. It has also other functions to fulfil ;—for, communicating freely with the cavities of the mouth and lungs, it is concerned in respiration, voice, and taste ; and by means of muscles on its exterior, which are closely connected with the muscles of the face, it assists more or less in expression. This organ consists of, first, the anterior prominent part, composed of bone and cartilages, with muscles already described, which slightly move the cartilages, and two orifices, anterior nares, opening down- * A microraillirneter is the i^gth part of a millimeter, or the ^orM1- Part °^ an inc^) and is generally represented by the Greek letter fi.