228 THE SKIN. muscular fibre-cells arranged longitudinally. In the larger glands, more- over, the duct is rarely simple, being more usually parted, by repeated dichotomous division Fig. 157. into several branches, which before ending give off short ceecal processes ; in rare cases the branches anastomose. On carefully detaching the cuticle from the true skin, after its connection has been loosened by putrefaction, it usually happens that the cuticular linings of the sweat-ducts get separated from their interior to a certain depth, and are drawn out in form of short threads attached to the under surface of the epidermis. The coils of the gland-tube 'are loosely held together by con- nective tissue (fig. 157), which may form a sort of capsule round the body of the gland. Each little sweat-gland is sup- plied with a dense cluster of capillary blood-vessels. Pig, 157.—Section of a Sweat-Gland. Highly magnified (Biesiadecki). The tubules are seen variously cut. a, base- ment-membrane ; b, lining cells ; c, lumen of tube ; d, blood-vessels and uniting connective tissue. The contents of the smaller sweat-glands are fluid, without any formed elements ; but in the larger sweat-glands of the axilla the contents are semi-fluid, and abound in fine pale granules and nuclei; or their secretion is extremely viscid, with a varying quantity of large, opaque, colourless, or yellow granules, with nuclei and cells, similar to epithelium-cells ; and in both cases it may also con- tain fat. Distribution.—Sweat-glands exist in all regions of the skin, and attempts have been made to determine their relative amount in different parts, for they are not equally abundant everywhere; but, while it is easy to count their numbers in a given space on the palm and sole, the numerical proportion assigned to them in most other regions must be taken with considerable allowance. According to Krause, nearly 2800 open on a square inch of the palm of the hand, and somewhat fewer on an equal extent of the sole of the foot. He assigns rather more than half this number to a square inch on the back of the hand, and not quite so many to an equal portion of surface on the forehead, and the front and sides of the neck ; then come the breast, abdomen, and fore-ami, where he reckons about 1100 to the inch, and lastly, the lower limbs and the back part of the neck and trunk, on which the number in the same space is not more than from 400 to 600, The size of the sweat-glands also varies. According to the observer last named, the average diameter of the round-shaped ones is about one-sixth of a line ; but in some parts they are larger than this—as, for example, in the groin, but especially in the axilla. In this last situation Krause found the greater number to measure from one-third of a line to a line, and some nearly two lines in diameter. The development of the sweat-glands has been carefully studied by Kolliker. Their rudiments, when first discoverable in the embryo, have much the same appearance as those of the hairs, and, in like manner, consist of processes of the mucous layer of the epidermis, which pass down and are received into corre- sponding recesses of the corium. They are formed throughout of cells collected into a solid mass of an elongated pyriform, or rather club shape, continuous by its small end with the soft layer of the cuticle, and elsewhere surrounded by a homo-