409 STRUCTURE OF THE KIDNEYS. meter, but sometimes only ^th or T}nth of an inch. They consist each of a membranous capsule, containing a tuft of blood-vessels. The vascular tuft or glomerulus is formed by a small afferent artery (fig. 292,/; fig. 293, v, v'), breaking up at once into a number of minute branches, "which form convoluted loops, and are re-united in a single, somewhat smaller efferent vessel (fig. 292, # ; fig. 293, e, e)), placed close Fig. 292, d Fig. 292.—Semidiagrammattc Re- presentation OF A MALPIGHIAN Body in its relation to the UrinieerousTube (fromKolliker). 300 Diameters. a, capsule of the Malpighian body continuous with b, the membrana propria of the coiled uriniferous tube ; c, epithelium of the Malpighian body; d, epithelium of the uriniferous tube ; e, detached epithelium ; /, afferent vessel ; g, efferent vessel; h, convoluted vessels of the glome- rulus. Fig. 293. Fig. 293.—Malpighian Corpuscle from the Rabbit's Kidney : nitrate of silver preparation. Highly magnified (Ludwig). v, vas afferens, showing its epithelioid lining: at v', the [transverse muscular fibres are also seen ; e, vas efferens ; a, a', basement membrane of capsule with epithelioid markings, passing at h into that of the commencing uniferous tubule. to the afferent: the further history of the afferent and efferent vessels will be given later. The capsule, by which the glomerulus is enclosedy is formed of a basement membrane" lined by flattened epithelium (fig- 294, d). It receives the two vessels at one part; and at another is continued as already stated into a convoluted uriniferous tubule, as was first pointed out by Bowman (fig. 292). The epithelium lining the capsule is reflected over the glomerus, the cells becoming thicker and less flattened (fig. 294, c) ; it is doubtful whether in the adult they in all cases form a continuous layer over the vascular tuft, but in the foetus it is not difficult to recognise both layers. Sometimes the tuft is divided into two or or three bunches of vessels, in which case the