CONNECTIVE TISSUE. 62 is usually largest about the middle period of life, and greatly diminishes in old age. High feeding, repose of mind and body, and much sleep, favour the pro- duction of fat. To these causes must be added individual and perhaps hereditary predisposition. There is a greater tendency to fatness in females than males ; also, it is said, in eunuchs. The effect of castration in promoting the fattening of domestic animals is well known. In infancy and childhood the fat is confined chiefly to the subcutaneous tissue. In after-life it is more equally distributed through the body, and in proportion- ately greater quantity about the viscera. In Hottentot females fat accumulates over the gluteal muscles, forming a considerable prominence ; and, in a less degree, over the deltoid. A tendency to local accumulations of the subcutaneous fat is known to exist also in particular races of quadrupeds. Development.—According to Valentin the fat first appears in the human embryo about the fourteenth week of intra-uterine life. It is deposited in the form of minute granules or droplets in certain cells of the connective tissue (fig. 35,/,/'): these droplets increase in size Fig. 35. Fig. 35.—Development of Fat tn Cells of Subcutaneous Connective Tissue of new-born Rat. About 350 diameters. /, /', cells containing fat globules ; in /', the nucleus is visible ; fbr, fibrillated cell ; g, granular corpuscle ; I, leucocyte ; v, vacuolated cell ; n, n', n", ri", htemapoietic cells ; c, capillary blood-vessel ; c', developing capillary. The fibrils of the tissue are omitted for the sake of clearness. and eventually run together so as to form one large drop in each cell. By further deposition this comes to be considerably larger than the original cell, the protoplasm of which remains as a delicate envelope surrounding the fat-drop. By the end of the fifth month the fat-cells have largely increased in number, and have become collected into small groups. Like the other cells of the areolar tissue, the fat-cells in their early state contain a nucleus, but this, as already stated, becomes afterwards hidden from view. The deposit of fat within the cells is preceded and accompanied by the formation of a rich network of capillary blood-vessels, which are produced by a transformation of other cells of the tissue in the manner to be afterwards described.