ARRANGEMENT OF THE MUSCULAR FIBRES. 259 passing behind the first set of fibres in the cavity, turning forwards, emerges in front of them at the apex, around which its fibres twist, to become continuous chiefly with those superficial fibres which cover the anterior surface of the heart, and are attached above to the corresponding parts of the tendinous rings. But since the superficial fibres form a continuous stratum around the ventricles, it is impossible to adjudge any exact limits to the two sets of fibres. It is very much more difficult to trace the continuity of the deeper fibres of the ventricles : those, namely, which form the main part of their thickness. "When the left ventricle is opened, the fibres forming its walls are seen in the interior to take a general direction downwards, those of the anterior wall converging somewhat towards the apex, those of the posterior passing more diagonally from right to left. Traced upwards, they are observed partly to be attached to the aortic and mitral tendinous rings, partly to turn round the margin of the auriculo- ventricular orifice, in continuity with other more external fibres, which, again, come (at least some of them) from the central fibro-cartilage. Traced downwards, they turn round to form the chief substance of the wall of the ventricle, passing in front obliquely upwards again towards the septum. Some of them, however, join the sets of fibres which emerge at the apex and become superficial; and, on the other hand, the deep fibres are joined by the deeper parts of the papillary muscles. Reaching the septum, they for the most part turn into it, and some of them pass at once obliquely upwards, to be attached to the central fibro-cartilage. Others, after indenting or interlocking with bundles, which turn into the septum from the front of the right ven- tricle, proceed to form the posterior part of that ventricle, passing to its posterior papillary muscle and the central fibro-cartilage or its prolong- ations ; whilst a third set, reinforced by the entering fibres from the right ventricle, take an annular course around the left ventricle. It is excessively difficult to trace the ultimate destination of these annular bundles, for they appear to encircle the ventricle more than once, and to form the main thickness of its wall : but it is probable that taking a more and more oblique course, they either are eventually attached to some of the tendinous or fibro-cartilaginous structures at the base, or pass up into one or other of the papillary muscles at the apex. The bundles of fibres on the inside of the right ventricle have a general direction from the tricuspid and pulmonary rings to which they are attached above, and from the papillary muscles, especially the anterior, towards the lower and back part of the cavity. Arrived here, some turn sharply round to enter the septum, and partly to pass up in this to the central fibro-cartilage, whilst others pass across the back of the septum into the posterior wall of the left ventricle, and become lost amongst the fibres there. There are besides certain sets of fibres which appear not readily assignable to any of those above des- cribed : those, for instance, which encircle the pulmonary orifice, and others which, as Sibson has shown, radiate upwards from the bases of the papillary muscles, especially the anterior papillary of the right ventricle, to be attached to the tendinous structures at the base of the heart, especially to the pulmonary ring, opposite the two anterior sinuses of Valsalva. Moreover, a number of fasciculi encircle both ventricles, ap- parently without a definite attachment, but, according to Winckler, they