121 CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF MUSCLE. 80. proved this as regards the muscles of frogs. Two modes of production of new fibres have been described—viz., firstly, from connective tissue corpuscles lying between the existing fibres, by a process analogous to the original development of the muscle (von Wittich); secondly, by the splitting up of a fibre throughout its whole length into two or more smaller ones, preceded by multiplication of its included nuclei. This second process has been de- scribed by Weismann and by Kolliker as occurring in frogs, in the winter season, and would appear to serve for the replacement of fibres destroyed by fatty degeneration, which is said to be not uncommon in these creatures. Beale, however, denies that the new and slender fibres are derived from a larger one by splitting of its substance; he believes that they are produced from cells, as in the first mode, and that the old fibre is removed. The great increase in the muscular tissue of the uterus during gestation takes place both by elonga- tion and thickening of the pre-existing fibre-cells of which that non-striated tissue consists, and by the development of new muscular fibre-cells from small, nucleated, granular cells lying in the tissue. In the shrinking of the uterus after parturition the fibre- cells also diminish to their previous size; many of them become filled with fat-granules (fig. 80), and many are doubtless removed by absorption. As far as can be concluded from the observations and experiments that have hitherto been made on the subject, the striated muscular tissue is not re- generated in warm-blooded animals. It is true that, when a muscle is cut across, or a portion removed, the breach will heal, but the loss of substance is not repaired by new- formed muscular tissue. Striated muscular fibres have been found in certain tumours of the ovary and testicle, but these cases are altogether peculiar and abnormal. Fig. 80—Muscular Fibre-Cells from the Uterus, three Weeks after Delivery, treated with Acetic Acid, mag- nified 350 DIAME- TERS (Kolliker). a, nuclei ; y, fat- granules. COMPOSITION AND PROPERTIES OP MUSCULAR TISSUE. Chemical composition.—Muscular tissue contains nearly 80 per cent, of water, so that in being dried it loses about four-fifths of its weight. The chief and characteristic constituent of the fibre is an albuminoid body. This was at one time regarded as fibrin; but, as it was afterwards shown to be not identical with that substance, it was distinguished by the name of sijntonin; the ground of distinc- tion being, that syntonin is soluble in very dilute hydrochloric acid, and can be extracted from muscle by that solvent; also, that its solu- tion is precipitated by neutral salts. More recently, the subject has been investigated by Kiihne, who states that the albuminoid matter of muscle exists in the fibres in a liquid form during life, but coagulates after death, and thereby gives rise to the cadaveric rigidity which then invades the muscles. When extracted from fresh and still irritable frogs' muscles at a temperature of freezing, this substance, which