86 BONE. by Virchow, each lacuna is occupied by a nucleated cell, or soft corpuscle, which sends branches along the canaliculi; and later observers (Kouget, Neumann,) state that they have been able to detach the proper osseous wall of the lacuna and its appertaining canaliculi after decalcification, and to obtain it separate with its included corpuscle. It can scarcely be doubted that the protoplasm of the nucleated cor- puscle takes an important share in the nutritive process in bone, and very probably serves both to modify the nutritive fluid supplied from the blood and to further its distribution through the lacunar and canali- cular system of the bony tissue. Virchow considers that the corpuscles of bone are homologous with those of connective tissue : to this it may be added that the enclosing lacunas and canaliculi may be looked upon as corresponding to the cell-spaces (Saft-camilchen) of that tissue. To return to the lamellae. With a little pains, thin films may be peeled off in a longitudinal direction from a piece of bone that has been softened in acid. These for the most part consist of several laminae, as may be seen at the edge, where the different layers are usually torn un- equally, and some extend farther than others. Examined in this way, under the microscope, the lamellae are seen to be perforated with fine apertures placed at very short distances apart. These apertures were described by Deutsch,* but they have not much attracted the notice of succeeding observers ; they appear to be the transverse sections of the canaliculi already described, and their relative distance and position accord sufficiently with this explanation. According to this view, therefore, the canaliculi might (in a certain sense) be conceived to result from the apposi- tion of a series of perforated plates, the aper- tures of each plate corresponding to those of the plates contiguous with it; in short, they might be compared to holes bored to some depth in a straight or crooked direction through the leaves of a book, in which case it is plain that the perforations of the adjoining leaves would correspond; it being understood, how- ever, that the passages thus formed are most likely bounded by proper parietes. The aper- tures now referred to must be distinguished from larger holes seen in some lamellae, which give passage to the perforating fibres to be mentioned further on. But the lamellae have a further structure. To see this, the thinnest part of a detached shred or film must be examined, as shown in figs. 50 and 52 ; it will then appear plainly that they are made up of transparent fibres, decussating with each other in the form of an exceedingly fine network. The fibres intersect obliquely, and they seem to coalesce at the- points of intersection, for they cannot be teased out from one- another; but at the torn edge of the lamella they may often be seen * De Penitiori Ossium Structura. Wratisl. 1S34, p. 17, Fig. 6. Fig. 50. Fig. 50.— Thin Layer peeled off from a soft- ened Bone, as it appears under a magnifying POWER OF 400. This figure, which is in- tended to represent the reti- cular structure of a lamella, gives a better idea of the object when held rather farther off than usual from the eye.