EXTERNAL FORM. Fig. 344.—Anterior and Posterior Views op the Medulla Oblongata and Spinal Cord with Sections (Allen Thomson). ^ The cord has been divested of its membranes and the roots of the nerves. A presents an anterior, B a posterior view, showing the upper cervical), and the lower (lumbar) enlargements. In these figures the filiform prolongation, repre- sented separately in B', has been removed ; C shows a transverse section through the middle of the medulla oblongata ; D, a section through the middle of the cervical enlargement of the spinal cord; E, through the upper region of the dorsal part ; F, through its lower ; Gr, through the middle of the lumbar enlargement ; and H, near the lower end of its tapering extremity. 1, anterior pyramids ; 1', their decussation ; 2, olivary bodies ; 3, restiform bodies ; 4, pos- terior surface of the medulla oblongata ; 4', cala- mus scriptorius ; 5, posterior pyramids ; 6, pos- terior lateral columns passing up into the restiform bodies ; 7, 7, anterior median fissure extending through the whole length of the spinal cord ; 8, 8, anterior lateral groove ; 9, 9, posterior median fissure ; 10, 10, posterior lateral groove; x, lower end of the tapering extremity of the cord ; x, x , in B', the filiform prolongation of the cord and its pia-matral covering. Size and extent.—The length of the spinal corcl is from fifteen to eighteen inches. In general form it is cylindrical, somewhat flattened before and behind. It presents two enlargements—an upper or cervical, and a lower or lumbar (fig. 344, d and G). The cervical enlarge- ment is of greater size and extent than the lower. It reaches from the third cervical to the first dorsal vertebra ; its greatest diameter is from side to side. The lower or lumbar enlargement is situated nearly opposite the last dorsal vertebra ; its antero-posterior diameter is nearly equal to the transverse. Below this enlargement, the cord tapers in the form of a cone {conns medullar is), from the apex of which the small filiform prolongation is continued downwards for some distance within the sheath. The cervical and lumbar enlargements have an evident relation to the large size of the nerves which supply the upper and lower limbs, and which are connected with those regions of the cord. At the commencement of its development in the embryo, the spinal cord is destitute of these enlargements, which, in their first appearance and subsequent pro- gress, correspond with the growth of the limbs.