247 Fig. 169. THE RIGHT VENTRICLE. orifices, protected by valves ; the ccuricido-ventricular, of an oval form, and situate towards the right, and that of the pulmonary artery, smaller, more elevated, and towards the left. Between the two the wall of the cavity projects downwards, in the form of a thick rounded muscular partition. The inner surface is marked by muscular bundles, " columnas carneas," some of which are attached by each ex- tremity to the wall of the ventricle and are free in the middle, others are Fig. 169.—Cross Section of the Ventricular part of the Heart at two-thirds from the Apex looking downwards into the Cavities (Allen Thomson). 2-3rds the NATURAL SIZE. 1, 1', Wall of the right ventri- cle ; 2, 2', wall of the left ; 3, 3', septum ; 4, the principal papil- lary muscle of the right ventricle ; 4', some columns carneaa on the septum near the front ; i", others posteriorly near the septum ; 5, 5', the principal papillary muscles of the left ventricle ; 6, the deepest part of the cavity of the right ventricle ; 7, that of the left ven- tricle at the apex of the heart. only sculptured in relief, as it were, being continuous with the wall of the ventricle in their whole length ; while a third set, forming two prin- cipal bundles, an anterior (fig. 167, 4',) and a posterior, named musculi papillares, are connected at their base with the ventricular wall, and by the other end are attached to small tendinous cords (chordce tendinecc), through which they are connected with the segments of the auriculo- ventricular valve. The inside of the conns arteriosus is smooth, and free from columnae carneae. The valve guarding the right auriculo-ventricular opening is com- posed of three triangular segments, or flaps (anterior, right or inferior, and posterior, or septal), and is hence named the tricuspid. The flaps are mainly formed of folds of the endocardium, enclosing fibrous tissue. At their bases, they are continuous with one another, so as to form an annular membrane attached around the margin of the auricular open- ing : they are directed downwards, and are retained in position within the ventricle by the chordae tendineaa, which are attached to their ventricular surfaces and free margins. The middle part of each seg- ment is thicker than the rest, whilst the marginal part is thin, trans- parent, and jagged at the edges (compare fig. 173, B, e, e). The chorda? tendineas from the anterior papillary muscle pass to the cleft between the anterior and inferior segments, to be attached to both : the chorda? tendineas from the posterior papillary muscle are attached in like manner to the posterior and inferior segments : while others forming a third set spring directly from the surface of the septum, sometimes from small eminences upon it, and pass upwards, to be attached to the adjacent borders of the anterior and poste- rior segments. During the contraction of the ventricle, the segments of the valve are applied to the opening leading from the auricle, and prevent the blood from rushing back into that cavity. Being retained by the chorda? tendineas, the expanded flaps of the valve resist the pressure of the blood, which would otherwise force