399 STRUCTURE OF THE SPLEEN. with whatever amount of muscularity they may possess, renders the spleen capable of the great and sudden alterations in size to which it is subject. The pulp of the spleen is of a dark reddish-brown colour : when pressed out from between the trabecule it resembles grumous blood, and, like that, acquires a brighter hue on exposure to the air. When a thin section is examined under the microscope the pulp is seen to consist of a reticulum of branched connective-tissue.corpuscles, which are of various forms and sizes ; in some parts little but the intercom- municating branches remaining, forming a fine retiform tissue, in other parts the cells being larger and in closer connection (fig. 285, p). These corpuscles, which may be termed the supporting cells of the pulp, contain each a clear oval nucleus, like connective tissue cells generally; moreover, in teazed-out preparations of the fresh spleen substance it is not uncommon to find within them yellowish pigment granules of various sizes, presumed to be derived from blood corpuscles; indeed, every stage of retrogressive metamorphosis of blood corpuscles may be noticed to occur within them. The interstices between these sus- tentacular cells are, in sections, always found to be occupied by blood (fig. 285, bl), the white corpuscles being, however, in rather larger pro- portion than in ordinary blood, especially in the neighbourhood of the Malpighian corpuscles to be immediately described. Blood-vessels.—The splenic artery and vein,- alike remarkable for their great proportionate size, having entered the spleen by six or more branches, ramify in its interior, enclosed within the trabecular sheaths already described. The smaller branches of the arteries leave the tra- becule, and, passing into the proper substance of the spleen, terminate in small tufts of capillary vessels arranged in pencils (fig. 283). The external or connective tissue coat of these smaller arteries becomes transformed into lymphoid tissue, which forms a comparatively thick sheath along each. This lymphoid sheath becomes suddenly dilated here and there into small spheroidal bodies, measuring on an average T^ of an inch in diameter, but varying in size from much smaller than this up to ¥^-th of an inch, and closely resembling the lymphoid follicles met with in the intestine and elsewhere. These lymphoid expansions may be seen on the surface of a fresh section of the organ as light-coloured spots scattered in the dark substance composing the pulp, and have been long noticed and described as the Malpighian corpuscles of the spleen (fig. 283 ; fig. 284, c c). In some cases they are developed upon one side only of the arterial wall, upon which they then appear to be sessile; whilst in other instances—and this is the most frequent in the human subject—the expansion takes place all round the circumference of the vessel, by which they appear to be pierced, and which is generally smaller in these cases and sends off radiating branches which are distributed in the Malpighian corpuscle. This latter then appears attached by a short peduncle to the vessel of which its artery is a branch. ^ The Malpighian corpuscles are, as just stated, localized expan- sions of the lymphoid tissue of which the external coat of the smaller arteries of the spleen is formed. The reticulum of the tissue is com- paratively open, being almost absent towards the centre of the cor- puscle : at the confines it becomes closer ; there is, however, no distinct boundary separating it from the retiform tissue of the pulp VOL. II. D D