142 NERVOUS TISSUE. ment of the fibres in these cases, it is to be observed, that, in the branching of a nerve, collections of its fibres successively leave the trunk and form branches ; and that, when different nerves or their branches intercommunicate, fibres pass from one nerve to become associated with those of the other in their further progress ; but in neither case (unless towards their peripheral terminations) is there any such thing as a division or splitting of an elementary nerve-fibre into two, or an actual junction or coalescence of two such fibres together. A communication between two nerves is sometimes effected by one or two connecting branches. In such comparatively simple modes of connection, which are not unusual, both nerves commonly give and receive fibres; so that, after the junction, each contains a mixture of fibres derived from two originally distinct sources. More rarely the fibres pass only from one of the nerves to the other, and the contribu- tion is not reciprocal. In other cases the branches of a nerve, or branches derived from two or from several different nerves, are connected in a more complicated manner, and form what is termed a plexus. In plexuses—of which the one named " brachial" or " axillary," formed by the great nerves of the arm, and the "lumbar" and " sacral," formed by those of the lower limb and pelvis, are appropriate examples—the nerves or their branches join and divide again and again, interchanging and intermixing their fibres so thoroughly that, by the time a branch leaves the plexus, it may contain fibres from all the nerves entering the plexus. Still, as in the more simple communications already spoken of, the fibres, so far as is known, remain individually distinct throughout. In some instances of nervous conjunctions certain collections of fibres, after passing from one nerve to another, take a retrograde course in that second nerve, and, in place of being distributed peripherally with its branches, turn back to its root and rejoin the cerebro-spinal centre. An apparent example of such nervous arches without peripheral distribution is afforded by the optic nerves, in which various anatomists admit the existence of arched fibres that seem to pass across the commissure between these nerves from one optic tract to the other, and to return again to the brain. These, however, are perhaps to be compared with the commissural fibres of the brain itself, of which there is a great system connecting the symmetrical halves of that organ. But instances of a similar kind occurring in other nerves have been pointed out by Volkmann ; as in the connection be- tween the second and third cervical nerves of the cat, also in that of the fourth cranial nerve with the first branch of the fifth in other quadrupeds, and in the commmiications of the cervical nerves with the spinal accessory and the descen- dens noni. But certain fibres of the optic nerves take a course deviating still more from that followed generally, for they appear to be continued across the commissure from the eyeball and optic nerve of one side to the opposite nerve and eye, without being connected with the brain at all, and thus to form arches with peripheral terminations, but no central connection. In looking, however, for an explanation of this arrangement, it must be borne in mind that the retina is itself originally an outgrowth from the brain and contains nerve-cells, like those of the nervous centres, and perhaps the fibres referred to may be intended merely to bring the collections of nerve-cells of the two sides into relation inde- pendently of the brain. Julius Arnold has found an arrangement of fibres at the junctions of the nerve-plexus of the iris similar to that in the optic commissure.* The disposition of the fibres at the points of division and junction of the * Virchow's Arch. 1863.