500 THE SPINAL COED. where two bundles of upper part than in the middle of the dorsal region. In the upper part of the cervical region a group of cells reappears in the same situa- tion, and is traversed by the roots of the spinal accessory nerve. The cells of the intermedio-lateral tract are of large and medium size, and many of them are fusiform, lying transversely. They are probably con- nected with fibres which run transversely from the commissure across the central portion of the grey substance. Commissures.—The anterior commissure consists of medullated nerve fibres which pass on each side, some into the anterior white column, others into the anterior horn. Their course is not strictly transverse, many fibres which enter the anterior part of the commissure at one side leave it at the posterior portion on the other side. There is thus a double decussation at the middle line (fig. 350). Sometimes part of the fibres have an ascending or descending direction, or are displaced by the vessels which pass into the cord from the anterior fissure. The posterior commissure is composed of fine grey nerve fibres, running transversely and most abundant behind the central canal. On each side of the canal is an area occupied chiefly by gelatinous substance, in which are a few longitudinal fibres and granules. Close to the canal many small round or angular cells are scattered, some branching, others containing many nuclei (probably connective tissue cells). The central canal is lined with a layer of cylindrical ciliated epithe- lium. In the adult its lumen is not unfrequently occupied by cells and granular material, and, the epithelium layer being indistinct, the cells within it appear continuous with those in its vicinity. The filnm terminale is said to contain in its upper portion a con- tinuation of the central canal, surrounded by gelatinous substance and nerve fibres. In its lower portion it consists of connective tissue only. Fig. 352.—A Small Por- tion OF A TRANSVERSE. Section of the Spinal Cord at the place, the Fibres of the An- terior Eoots pass into the grey substance.. (Allen Thomson.) This figure may be looked upon as representing the inner ends of the anterior roots of the nerves, of which the outer part is shown in fig. 346. a, a, the two bundles of fibres cf the anterior root passing between the compartments of longitudinal fibres of the cord ; b, b, the same fibres running backwards through the grey substance towards the posterior cornua ; c, c', those spreading in the anterior cornua, on the one side towards the anterior commissure, and on the other round the outer side of the anterior cornu ; d, d, portions of three com- partments of the anterior columns in which the longitudinal fibres of the cord are shown in transverse section ; e, c, large radiated and nucleated cells in the grey substance of the anterior cornu--some with three, others with a greater number of processes emanating from them : no direct communication is shown between these processes and the nerv& fibres of the roots. Fig. 352.