77i DEVELOPMENT OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. formed from peripheral blastema like all other nerves, with the exception of the optic. DEVELOPMENT OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL AND ORGANS ARISING FROM THE HYPOBLAST. The whole alimentary canal, from the fauces to the anus, together with the rudiments of certain organs associated with it in their com- mencement, viz., the thyroid gland, lungs, trachea and larynx, the livei\ and pancreas, as well as the allantois, owe their origin more imme- diately to inflections of the hypoblast layer of the germinal membrane, which supplies the epithelial lining of their principal cavities ; but in all these organs parts of their structure are supplemented, and some other organs, such as the mesentery and spleen, are wholly formed from the mesoblast, whence proceed the vascular, fibrous, and parenchyma- tous elements, and also the serous coverings of the organs, where these exist. ALIMENTARY CANAL. The primary digestive cavity of birds and mammals, as it extends from one end of the embryo to the other below the vertebral axis, presents at first a manifest division into three parts. One of these,, occupying the part of the embryo which is enclosed by the cephalic fold, and which may be named the foregut, comprises the rudiments of the pharynx and gullet, the stomach and duodenum. The posterior division, which is comparatively short, occupies the caudal fold of the embryo, and corresponds mainly to the lower part of the colon and rectum. Both of these parts have from the first a tubular form, and are closed respectively by the inflection of the whole blastodermic layers at the anterior and posterior extremities of the body. The middle division has primarily the form of a long and wide groove, lying close below the corresponding part of the vertebral bodies, lead- ing at its opposite ends into the cephalic and caudal portions of the gut, and is freely open throughout on its ventral aspect into the cavity of the yolk-sac, with the blastodermic walls of which, as formerly described, the constituents of the intestinal walls are directly con- tinuous (see fig. 576). The mouth, as elsewhere explained, is no part of the primitive alimentary canal, but is formed by involution of parts of the face, and receives, therefore, its lining membrane from epiblast. It is separated for a time from the pharynx, which is the foremost part of the primi- tive alimentary canal, by the reflection of the layers of the blastoderm, and the communication which is later established between the mouth and pharynx at the posterior arch of the fauces, is due to a solution of continuity in these layers, which occurs in the chick on the fourth day of incubation, and has been traced at a corresponding period of development in several mammals. The aperture has at first the form of a vertical slit, which widens later as it becomes the opening from the pharynx into the common cavity of the nose and mouth. The diverticulum of the pituitary gland, it will be remembered, occupying the place which becomes the top of the permanent pharynx, is formed in connection with the epiblastic or buccal, and not the hypoblastic or pharyngeal division of the alimentary passage (see fig. 535, A and B,p?j). The hypoblastic layer of the germinal membrane, from which is, derived the epithelial lining of the whole alimentary canal and pas-