THE TESTICLE. 44G Fig. 319. Fig. 319.—Plan of a Vertical Section op the Testicle, At the back of the testis and epididymis, beneath the fascia propria, there is found, opposite the lower two-thirds of the testis, a consider- able amount of unstriped muscular tissue, the inner muscular tunic of Kolliker. Situated on the front of the globus major, somewhat to the outer side, there is usually found one or more small pedunculated bodies formed by an extension of the tunica vaginalis and containing connective tissue and blood-vessels. These are the hydatids of Morgagni. One of them of a more regularly pyriform shape and more constant than the rest, lies closely between the head of the epididymis and the testicle, and is regarded as the remains of the foetal structure termed Miiller's duct. The testis is enclosed in a strong capsule, the tunica albuginea. This is a dense unyielding fibrous membrane, of a white colour, and of considerable thickness, which immediately invests the soft substance of the testicle, and preserves the form of the gland. It is composed of bundles of fibrous tissue, which interlace in every direction. The sur- face is covered by the tunica vaginalis, except along the posterior border of the testicle, where the spermatic vessels pass through and the two extremities of the epididymis are attached. In the interior, the fibrous tissue of the tunica albuginea is pro- longed from the posterior border, for a few lines into the substance of the gland, so as to form within it an incomplete vertical sep- tum, known as the corpus Highmoriamim, and named by Astley Cooper mediastinum testis. It extends from the upper nearly to the lower end of the gland, and it is wider above than below. The firm tissue of which it is composed is traversed by a network of seminal ducts, and by the larger blood-vessels of the gland, which are lodged in channels formed in the fibrous tissue. From the front and sides of the corpus Highmorianum numerous slender fibrous cords and imperfect septa of connective tissue are given off in radiating directions, and are attached by their outer ends to the internal surface of the tunica albuginea at different points, so as to assist in maintaining the general shape of the testicle, and enclose the several showing the Arrangement op the Ducts. The true length and diameter of the ducts have been dis- regarded, a, a, tubuli seminiferi coiled up in the separate lobes ; b, vasa recta ; c, rete vasculosum ; d, vasa eff'erentia ending in the coni vasculosi ; I, e, g, convoluted canal of the epididymis ; h, vas deferens ; /, section of the back part of the tunica albuginea ; i, i, fibrous processes running between the lobes ; / to s, mediastinum. lobes into which the substance of the gland is divided. According to Kolliker plain muscular fibres are prolonged upon these septula from behind. The whole internal surface of the tunica albuginea is covered by a multitude of fine blood-vessels, which are branches of the spermatic artery and veins, and are held together by a delicate areolar web. Similar delicate ra- mifications of vessels are seen on the various fibrous offsets of the mediastinum, upon which the blood-vessels are thus supported in the