113 OPTICAL PROPERTIES OF MUSCLE. ■either side, just as a minute oil-globule in water appears surrounded with a bright halo when examined under the microscope. According to this view the proper substance of the muscle may be re- garded as consisting of a homogeneous ground-substance, 'in which lie imbedded successive series of rod-shaped particles, the enlarged ends of which give the appearance of transverse lines of dots, and, by diffraction, produce a relatively bright appearance in their im- mediate neighbourhood, and therefore rise to the bright bands.* In trausverse section the muscle rods appear, if the muscle be perfectly fresh, as minute round dots in the homogeneous ground-substance (fig. 69). Fig. 69. Fig. 70. Fig. 69.—Transverse Section of a Small Muscular Fibre op Water-Beetle. Highly Magnified. s, sarcolemma. Fig. 70.—Transverse Section of Portion op Muscular Fibre op Lobster. Examined in Salt Solution (4 per cent.) and Magnified 400 Diameters (Kolliker). The polygonal areas of Cohnheim are seen, and among them two or three irregular nuclei. Under certain circumstances, especially on the addition of any fluid, this appearance vanishes, and the ground becomes parted off into definite polygonal areas (Cohnheim's areas) bounded by clear bright lines (fig. 70). These are regarded by Kolliker as the sections of the muscle-columns described by him; by W. Krause as the ends of minute prisms of which he conceives the muscular substance to be made up. They are not observable in the unaltered condition of the fibre. There is every reason to believe that the ground-substance is similar in nature to ordinary protoplasm but without the granular character commonly, but not always, exhibited by the latter. Like the substance composing the plain muscular cells shortly to be described, it is doubly refracting (anisotropous), whereas the substance composing the muscle- rods is probably singly refracting (isotropous). * This view of the cause of the appearance is supported by the fact that in certain fibres the ends of the rods are not enlarged, and in such cases the bright transverse stripes are no longer observed. It also explains, amongst other things, why it is that, until quite lately, observers have failed in recognising the actual continuation of the rod-shaped particles into the dots. For a more extended account of the subject, as well as a notice of the recent literature, the reader is referred to a paper on " The Minute Structure of the Leg-muscles of the Water-beetle " in the Philosophical Transactions for 1873. VOL. II. I