42 EPITHELIUM. have also begun to produce pale corpuscles, and in after periods supersede the liver in that office. These corpuscles, either immediately or after fissiparous multiplication, acquire colour like the first—those from the liver and spleen pro- bably in great part before they leave these organs—and are converted into nucleated red corpuscles. The nucleated red corpuscles thus produced are gradually converted into, or at least succeeded by, smaller disk-shaped red cor- puscles without nuclei, having all the characters of the blood-disks of the adult. This transition or substitution begins early, and proceeds gradually, until at length, long before the end of intrauterine life, the nucleated red corpuscles have altogether vanished. The disk-shaped red corpuscles are produced, in part at least, in the interior of connective tissue cells of the developing mammal in a manner somewhat similar to that described by Klein in the cells of the middle layer of the chick's blasto- derm. The cell-nuclei, however, are not involved in the process, which seems to be rather of the nature of a deposit within the cells. The blood-corpuscles which are at first spheroidal eventually take on the flattened form and become free within a cavity which is hollowed out in the interior of the cell ; the latter becomes united with neighbouring cells to form the blood-vessels of the part. This endogenous mode of cell formation commonly ceases before birth.* Throughout life the mass of blood is subject to continual change ; a portion of it is constantly expended, and its place taken by a fresh supply. It is certain that the corpuscles are not exempted from this general change, but it is not known in what manner they are consumed, nor has the process been fully traced by which new ones are continually formed to supply the place of the old. With regard to the latter question, it may be stated, that the explanation which has hitherto found most favour with physiologists is, that the corpuscles of the chyle and lymph, passing into the sanguiferous system, become the pale corpuscles of the blood ; and that these last are converted into red disks. Pale corpuscles are also generated in the spleen, and, after part of them have changed into red disks, pass directly into the blood, independently of those derived from the chyle and lymph. A production of blood-corpuscles is also said to take place in certain cells of the marrow of the bones, in which transitional forms to the red corpus- cles have been observed. (Neumann, Bizzozero.) As to the manner in which the pale corpuscles are transformed into the red, there is considerable difference of opinion. According to one view (adopted by Paget, Kolliker, Funke, and ■others), the pale corpuscles gradually become flattened, acquire coloured con- tents, lose their nuclei, and shrink somewhat in size, and thus acquire the characters of the red disks. Wharton Jones, on the other hand, arrived at the conclusion that, whilst in birds, reptiles, and fishes, the pale or lymph corpuscle, suffering merely some alteration of form and contents, becomes the red disk, its nucleus alone is developed into the red disk of mammalian blood. According to this view (supported by Busk, Huxley, and Gulliver), while the red corpuscle of oviparous vertebrata is the transformed pale corpuscle—its develop- ment not proceeding beyond this stage—the non-nucleated red disk of men and mammalia is, on the other hand, considered to be, not the homologue of the oval nucleated red disk of the oviparous vertebrata, but that of its nucleus. It is not within the scope of this work' to enter upon a discussion of the relative merits of these opinions, and the reader is referred to physiological works for a consideration of these and other views adopted by various authors upon the point at issue. EPITHELIAL, EPIDERMIC, OP CUTICXJLAP TISSUE. General nature and situation.—It is well known, that when the skin is blistered, a thin, and nearly transparent membrane, named the cuticle or epidermis, is raised from its surface. In like manner, a transparent film may be raised from the lining membrane of the mouth, similar in nature to the epidermis, although it has in this situation * Schafer, Proceedings of the Royal Society. 1874.