53 AREOLAE, TISSUE. known as the areolar (including the fat), the fibrous, and the elastic tissues, and will be now severally treated of. Without disregarding the alliance of cartilage and bone to the connective tissues, we shall not, in imitation of some respected authorities, include them in the same group ; but there remain certain forms of tissue, occurring locally, or met with as constituents of other textures, which properly belong to this head, and will be briefly considered in a separate section as sub- ordinate varieties of connective tissue. Cartilage and bone are included in the group of connective tissues or connec- tive substances by several eminent German histologists, and present undoubted points of relationship with these tissues, both in their nature and the general purpose which they serve in the animal frame. Thus, yellow cartilage shows an unmistakable transition to elastic connective tissue, as fibro-cartilage does, even more decidedly, to white fibrous tissue. Moreover, the animal basis of bone agrees entirely in chemical composition, and in many points of structure, with the last-named tissue. Still, when it is considered that cartilage, in its typical form, consists of a quite different chemical substance, chondrin, and that bone is characterised by an impregnation of earthy salts, it seems more consistent with the purpose of histological description to recognise cartilage and bone as inde- pendent tissues. As to their community of origin, little stress need be laid on it as a basis of classification, seeing that the origin of blood-vessels, nerves, and muscles, may be traced up to protoplasm-cells, to all appearance similar to those that give rise to the connective tissues, and belonging to the same embryonic layer. THE AREOLAR TISSUE. Distribution and arrangement.—If we make a cut through the skin and proceed to raise it from the subjacent parts, we observe that it is loosely connected to them by a soft filamentous substance, of considerable tenacity and elasticity, and having, when free from fat, a white fleecy aspect; this is the substance known by the names of "cellular," " areolar," "filamentous," " connective," and "reticular" tissue ; it used formerly to be commonly called " cellular mem- brane." In like manner the areolar tissue is found underneath the serous and mucous membranes which are spread over various internal surfaces, and serves to attach those membranes to the parts which they line or invest ; and as under the skin it is named " sub- cutaneous," so in the last-mentioned situations it is called " sub- serous " and " submucous " areolar tissue. But on proceeding further we find this substance lying between the muscles, the blood-vessels, and other deep-seated parts, occupying, in short, the intervals between the different organs of the body where they are not otherwise insulated, and thence named " intermediate ;" very generally, also, it becomes more consistent and membranous immediately around these organs, and, under the name of the " investing " areolar tissue, affords each of them a special sheath. It thus forms inclosing sheaths for the muscles, the nerves, the blood-vessels, and other parts. Whilst the areolar tissue might thus be said in some sense both to connect and to insulate entire organs, it also performs the same office in regard to the finer parts of which these organs are made up; for this end it enters between the fibres of the muscles, uniting them into bundles ; it connects the several membranous layers of the hollow viscera, and binds together the lobes and lobules of many compound glands ; it also accompanies the vessels and nerves within these organs, following their branches nearly to their finest divisions, and affording them support and protection. This portion