87 STRUCTURE. separate for a little way, standing out like the threads of a fringe. Most generally they are straight, as represented in the figure ; but they are not always so, for in some parts they assume a curvilinear direction. Acetic or hydrochloric acid causes these fibres to swell up and become indistinct, like the white fibres of connective tissue ; care must there- fore be taken in their examination that the remains of the decalcifying acid be removed from the tissue, by maceration in water or in solution of an alkaline carbonate. Moreover, the fibro-reticular structure is not equally distinct in all parts where its presence is recognisable ; for in some places it is less decidedly marked, as if the fibrillation were incom- pletely developed. In many instances the lamellae are perforated by fibres, or rather bundles of fibres, which pass through them in a perpendicular, or oblique direction, and, as it were, bolt them together. These perforating fibres maybe seen, with the aid of the microscope, in a thin transverse slice of a decalcified cylindrical or cranial bone, on pulling asunder the sections of the lamellae (as in fig. 51). In this way some lamellae will generally be observed with fibrous processes attached to them (fig. 51 i) of various lengths, and usually tapering and pointed at their free ex- tremities, but sometimes truncated—probably from having come in the way of the knife. These fibres have obviously been drawn out from the adjacent lamellae, through several of which they must have pene- trated. Sometimes, indeed, indications of perforations may be recog- nised in the part of the section of bone from which the fibres have been pulled out (fig. 51 c). The processes in question are thus, so to speak, Fig. 51. Fig. 51.—Magnified View of a Perpendicular Section through the External Table of a Human Parietal Bone, decalcified. At a, perforating fibres in their natural situation ; at h, others drawn out by separa- tion of the lamella?; at c, the holes or sockets out of which they have been drawn (H. Miiller). viewed in profile ; but they may frequently also be seen on the flat sur- face of detached lamellae, projecting like nails driven perpendicularly