ARRANGEMENT OF THE TEETH IX THE JAW. 305 molar is the largest, and the third is the smallest, in each range, so as to produce a gradation of size in these teeth. The last of the range, owing to its late appearance through the gum, is called the wisdom-tooth, dens sapiential The crowns of the molar teeth are low and cuboid in their general form. Their outer and inner surfaces are convex, but the crowns are rather flattened before and behind. The •grinding surface is nearly square in the lower teeth, and rhomboidal in the upper, the corners being rounded on ; it bears four or five trihedral tubercles or cusps (whence the name muMicuspidati), separated from «ach other by a crucial depression. The upper molars have four cusps situated at the angles of the masticating surface ; of these the anterior internal cusp is the largest, and is frequently connected with the posterior external cusp by a low oblique ridge. In the upper wisdom- teeth, the two internal cusps are usually blended. The crowns of the lower molars, which are larger than those of the upper, have five cusps, the additional one being placed between the two posterior ones, and rather to the outer side ; this is especially evident in the lower wisdom- teeth, in which, however, the crown is smaller and rounder than in the others. The fangs of the molar teeth are multiple. In the two anterior molars of the upper jaw, they are three in number, viz., two placed externally, which are short, divergent, and directed towards the antrum of the superior maxilla ; and a third or internal fang, which is larger and longer, and is directed towards the palate, its posterior border extending as far back as that of the posterior external fang. This third fang is often slightly grooved, especially when the two internal cusps of the crown are very distinct, and sometimes it is •divided into two smaller fangs. The two anterior molars of the lower jaw have each two broad, compressed fangs, one anterior, the other posterior, which are grooved on the faces that are turned towards each other, as if each consisted of two fangs fused together ; they have an inclination or curve backwards in the jaw, and are slightly divergent, but sometimes parallel, or even nearly in contact with each other; more rarely one or both of them is divided into two smaller fangs. In the wisdom-teeth of both jaws the fangs are often collected into a single irregular conical mass, which is either directed backwards in the substance of the jaw, or curved irregularly ; this composite fang sometimes shows traces of subdivision, and there are occasionally two fangs in the lower tooth and three in the upper. The bicuspid and the molar teeth, from the breadth and uneven character of their masticating surface, are fitted for bruising, crushing, and grinding the food. The range of teeth in each jaw forms a nearly uniform curve, which is not broken by any interval, as is the case in many animals, even in the Quadrumana. The upper dental arch is rather wider than the lower one, so that the teeth of the upper jaw slightly over- hang those of the lower. This is owing principally to the fact that the lower teeth are placed either vertically, as in front, or are inclined somewhat inwards, as is seen behind and at the sides, while the corresponding teeth of the upper jaw have an inclination forwards in front, and outwards behind. While there is a slight diminution in the height of the crowns of the teeth from the incisors backwards to the wisdom-teeth, there is in man no abrupt change of level along the range. In consequence of the large propo.tionate breadth of the upper