555 INTERNAL STRUCTURE. The main bodg is derived from the anterior pyramid, from the fasci- culi teretes, and from the posterior pyramid. After it has passed through the pons, and become increased in amount, it is separated into two parts in the cms cerebri by a layer of dark cineritious matter, named locus niger. The lower or superficial part, which is derived from the anterior pyramid, consists almost entirely of white fibres, collected into coarse fasciculi, and is named the crusta or basis, or the fasciculated portion of the peduncle (Foville) (fig. 388, g). It contains also fibres from the nerve nuclei of the medulla, and from the middle peduncle of the cerebellum. The upper part, composed principally of the fasciculus teres and posterior pyramid, is named the tegmentum (b). It is softer and finer in texture, and is mixed with much grey matter. Still increasiug in number within the peduncle, these two sets of fibres ascend to the thalamus and corpus striatum. A much larger number of fibres diverging from these bodies appear to pass to the medullary substance of the hemispheres than are contained in the crura. The actual continuity of the individual fibres spreading out in the hemisphere with those peduncular fibres which enter the sub- stance of the thalamus and corpus striatum is doubted by many authors, and among them, by Kolliker, who believe that the connection between the fibres is effected by the branching cells of the ganglia. Some fibres certainly pass by or through the ganglia, directly to the convolutions. The Fig. 388.—View op a Dissection op the Fig. 388. Fibres in the Left Cerebral Hemi- sphere from below (after Mayo), i The lower part of the teruporo-sphenoidal lobe has been removed, a, the anterior and a', the posterior part of the fillet of the corpus callosum ; b, g, section of the eras cerebri ; b, tegmentum ; </, crust separated from the last by the locus niger ; c', fibres stretching from the back part of the corpus callosum into the posterior lobe ; e, fasciculus uncinatus connecting the anterior and middle lobes across the Sylvian fissure ; /, /, trans- verse fibres from the corpus callosum passing into the cerebral hemispheres; I, back part of the thalamus ; m, corpus albicans ; q, median section of the corpus callosum ; r, radiating fibres of the hemispheres ; t, ante- rior pillar of the fornix descending into the corpus albicans (m) ; v, collateral fibres of the convolutions ; x , anterior commissure. posterior fibres of the tegmentum pass directly to the surface, as do also those of the crus, which separate the lenticular and caudate nuclei of the corpus striatum. The assemblage of radiating fibres in each hemisphere might be com- pared to a fan, bent into the form -of an incomplete hollow cone, having its concave surface turned down- wards and outwards ; hence the name corona radiata applied to them by Reil, and fibrous cone by Mayo (fig. 888). The accessorg fibres of the peduncular system are as follows :—