214 THE SKIN. tough framework of interlaced connective tissue fibres, with blood- vessels and lymphatics. The fibres are chiefly of the white variety, such as constitute the chief part of the fibrous and areolar tissues, and are- arranged in stout interlacing bundles, except at and near the surface, where the texture of the corium becomes very fine.* With these are mixed yellow or elastic fibres, which vary in amount in different parts,, but in all cases are present in smaller proportion than the former kind; also connective tissue corpuscles, fusiform or ramified, and for the most part reticularly anastomosing. The interlacement becomes much closer and finer towards the free surface of the corium, and there the fibres can be discovered only by teasing out the tissue, which often acquires an almost homogeneous aspect. Towards the attached surface,, on the other hand, the texture becomes much more open, with larger and larger meshes, in which lumps of fat and the small sudatory glands are lodged ; and thus the fibrous part of the skin, becoming more and more lax and more mixed with fat, blends gradually with the subcu- taneous areolar tissue, to which it is allied in elementary constitution. Bundles of plain muscular tissue are distributed in the substance of the corium wherever hairs occur ; and their connection with the latter will be afterwards explained. Muscular bundles of the same kind are found in the subcutaneous tissue of the scrotum, penis, perineum, and areola of the nipple, as well as in the nipple itself. They join to form reticular superimposed layers, which are separated from the parts beneath by a stratum of simple lax areolar tissue, but towards the surface they are immediately applied to the corium. In the areola they are disposed circularly. In consequence of this gradual transition of the corium into the sub- jacent tissue, its thickness cannot be assigned with perfect precision. It is generally said to measure from a quarter of a line or less to nearly a line and a half. As a general rule, it is thicker on the posterior aspect of the head, neck, and trunk, than in front ; and thicker on the outer than on the inner side of the limbs. The corium, as well as the cuticle, is remarkably thick on the soles of the feet and palms of the hands. The skin of the female is thinner than that of the male. For convenience of description it is not unusual to speak of the corium as consisting of two layers, the " reticular " and the " papillary.'' The former, the more deeply seated, takes no part in the construction of the papilla, but contains in its meshes hair follicles, cutaneous glands, and fat. The latter is divided into papilla?, and receives only the upper portion of the hair-follicles and glands, together with the terminal ex- pansion of the vessels and nerves. The free surface of the corium is marked in various places with larger or smaller furrows, which also affect the superjacent cuticle. The larger of them are seen opposite the flexures of the joints, as those so well known in the palm of the hand and at the joints of the fingers. The finer furrows intersect each other at various angles, and may be seen almost all over the surface ; they are very conspicuous on the back of the hands. These furrows are not merely the consequence of the frequent folding of the skin by the action of muscles or the bending of joints, for they exist in the foetus. The wrinkles of old persons are of * A membrana propria, or basement-membrane, is sometimes described as bounding the corium superficially, like that found in the mucous membranes.