694 GENERAL PHENOMENA OF EMBRYONIC DEVELOPMENT. Fig. 505.—Transverse Section through the Fig. 505. the embryo extends into the space between the amnion and the other developed membranes of the ovum. Inflection of the Walls of the Body of the Embryo.—The first rudiments of the embryo, as before described, lie prone and flat on the surface of the yolk, consisting almost entirely in thickenings, with some incurvations, of certain parts of the blastoderm. In the forma- tion of these parts the two upper layers, epiblast and mesoblast, are alone concerned, and the hypoblast takes no part in them, but passes thin and flat across the space occupied by the embryonic rudiments. In the further progress of development a great change of form is now produced by the downward inflection of the whole three layers of the blastoderm, in consequence of which the embryo rises, as it were, out of the plane of the rest of this membrane, and begins to be notched off from its peripheral parts. The first of these folds, termed cephalic, (fig. 504) takes place at the extremity of the embryo which contains the rudiment of cranium representing the head, and precedes by a con- siderable interval the other folds. A similar downward fold subsequently follows at the caudal extremity, and there is also between the cephalic and caudal folds a simultaneous depression of the layers of the blasto- derm in lateral folds, so that the embryo takes in some measure the form of an inverted boat, with its keel upwards, and its hollow side opening towards the yolk cavity, and the fore part being, as it were, partially covered in by the deck of the cephalic fold. Thus are produced the downward ventral or visceral plates which form the side walls of the head and trunk ; and at a later period, by the increased constriction or convergence of the folds round the place of communication between the embryo and the peripheral parts of the blastoderm, there is formed the umbilicus (see figs. 510 and 512). Embryo-Chick before and some time after the closure of the medullary canal, to show the upward and downward in- FLECTIONS of the Blastoderm (after Remak). A. At the end of the first day. 1, notochord ; 2, primitive groove in the medullary canal ; 3, edge of the dorsal lamina ; 4, corneous layer or epiblast ; 5, mesoblast divided in its inner part ; 6, hypoblast or epithelial layer ; 7, section of protovertebral plate. B. On the third day in the lumbar region. 1, notochord in its sheath ; 2, medullary canal now closed in ; 3, section of the medullary sub- stance of the spinal cord ; 4, corneous layer ; 5, somatopleiire of the mesoblast ; 5', splanchno- pleure (one figure is placed in the pleuro- peritoneal cavity); 6, hypoblast layer in the intes- tine and spreading over the yolk ; 4 x 5, part of the fold of the amnion formed by epiblast and somatopleure. The fundamental steps, therefore, in the development of the verte- brate embryo result in the formation in the axial part, or head and trunk of the body, of two cavities, of which one is situated above and the other below the notochordal axis; the upper constituting the cranio-vertebral canal, and containing the rudiment of the cerebro-