GLANDS OF THE STOMACH. 353 Fig. 247. The mucous membrane is thickest in the pyloric region, and thinnest in the great cul-de-sac. It always becomes thinner in old age. It is connected with the muscular coat by means of the intervening submucous layer so loosely as to allow of considerable movement or displacement. In consequence of this, and of the want of elasticity of the mucous membrane, the internal surface of the stomach, when that organ is in a contracted state, is thrown into numerous convoluted ridges, ruga, which are produced by the wrinkling of the mucous, together with the areolar coat, and are entirely obliterated by disten- sion of the stomach. These folds are most evident along the greater curvature, and have a general longitudinal direction. On examining the gastric mucous membrane closely with the aid of a simple lens, it is seen to be marked throughout, but more plainly towards the pyloric extremity, with small depressions named alveoli* which have a polygonal figure, and vary from about ^otn to T£oth of an inch across, being larger and more oblong near the pylorus. Towards the pyloric region of the stomach the margins of these alveoli are elevated into pointed processes or fringes, which may be com- pared to rudimentary villi, the perfect forms of those appendages ex- isting only in the small intestine, and making their appearance in the duodenum, immediately beyond the pylorus. The thick stratified epithelium of the -oesophagus passes abruptly at the cardia into a simple layer of columnar epithe- lium, which completely covers the inner surface of the stomach, and extends to a variable distance into the mouths of the gastric glands. It agrees essentially with the similar epithelium which covers the intestine, and which will be afterwards more particularly described. As first shown by Sprott Boyd, the alveoli are dotted all over with small round apertures, which are the mouths of minute tubular glands {gastric glands), placed perpendicularly to the surface, closed at their deep extremity, which ex- tends almost to the submucous areolar tissue, and opening at the other end on the inner surface of the stomach. On making a vertical section of the mem- brane, and submitting it to microscopic examination, it is seen to consist almost entirely of these small tubuli, arranged close to and parallel with each other (fig. 247, a). Their diameter varies from ^ to 3-loth of an inch, and their length from g^th to iroth of an inch. At the cardiac end of the stomach, where the membrane is thinnest, they are shorter, and are for the most part simply tubular; but, in approaching the pyloric portion, they gradually become longer and assume a more complicated * The alveoli were termed " stomach-cells " by Boyd. A A 2 d € f Fig. 247.—Vertical Transverse Section of the Coats op a Pig's Stomach. 30 Diameters (from Kolliker). a, gastric glands ; h, muscular layer of the mucous membrane ; c, submucous or areolar coat ; d, circular muscular layer; c, longi- tudinal muscular layer ; /, serous coat.