THE BLADDER. 426 covered with a stratified epithelium, which is composed of three layers of cells. Of these, those forming the middle layer are pyriform (fig. 308, b), the upper end being rounded ; whilst the lower end of each cell is prolonged down to the corium, between small, rounded or irregular cells forming the lowermost layer. The cells of the superficial stratum (a) are large and flattened (more so in some animals than in man), cover- ing one, two, or more of the pyriform cells, over which their lower surface is as it were moulded, presenting well-marked depressions (with Fig. 308. Fig. 308.—Epithelial Cells from Bladder of Rabbit. About 500 diameters. (Klein.) a, large flattened cell from the superficial layer, with two nuclei, and with strongly marked ridges and intervening depressions on its under surface ; b, pear-shaped cells from the second layer ; c, showing the manner in which the pyriform cells are adapted to the depressions of the superficial cells. intervening ridges), into which the rounded ends of the pyriform cells fit (c). These large flattened cells have frequently more than one nucleus. There are no villi upon the vesical mucous membrane, but it is provided with minute recesses and with small racemose glands lined with columnar epithelium, which are most abundant in the vicinity of the neck of the bladder. Vessels.—The superior vesical arteries proceed from the remaining- pervious portions of the hypogastric arteries ; in the adult they appear as direct branches of the internal iliac. The inferior vesical arteries are usually derived from the anterior division of the internal iliac. In the female the uterine arteries also send branches to the bladder. The neck and base of the organ appear to be the most vascular portions. The veins form large plexuses around the neck, sides, and base of the bladder ; they eventually pass into the internal iliac veins. The lymphatics follow a similar course. The nerves are derived partly from the hypogastric plexus of the sympathetic, and partly from the sacral plexus of the cerebro-spinal system. The former are