216 THE SKIN. of long standing, and are then much more conspicuous. Fine blood- vessels enter most of the papillae, forming either simple capillary loops in each, or dividing into two or more capil- lary branches, according to the size of the papilla and its simple or composite form, which turn round in form of loops and return to the veins. Other papillae receive nerves, to be presently noticed. Blood-vessels and lymphatics.—The blood- vessels divide into branches in the subcutaneous tissue, and, as they enter the skin, supply capil- lary plexuses to the fat-clusters, sweat-glands, and hair-follicles. They divide and anastomose still further as they approach the surface, and at length, on reaching it, form a dense network of capillaries, with rounded polygonal meshes. Fine branches are seen in the papillae, as already mentioned. The lymphatics are abundant and large in some parts of the skin, as on the scrotum and round the nipple; whether they are equally so in all parts may be doubted. They form networks, which become liner as they approach the surface, and communicate under- neath with straight vessels, and these, after a longer or a shorter course, join larger ones or enter lymphatic glands. The finest and most superficial network, although close to the surface of the corium, is beneath the net of superficial blood-capillaries ; in certain parts on the palm and sole, lymphatics pass into the papillae, but do not reach their summits. Besides these plexuses, other lymphatics accompany the blood-vessels to which they are applied, two passing commonly to each, and joining and anas- tomosing over the vessel. Nerves.—Nerves are supplied in very different proportions to different regions of the skin, and according to the degree of sensibility. They pass upwards towards the papillary surface, where they form plexuses, of which the meshes become closer as they approach the sur- face, and the constituent branches finer. From the most superficial plexus which lies immediately under the epithelium, delicate non-medullated fibrils have been traced passing upwards amongst the cells of the Malpi- ghian layer of the cuticle, where they end, according to some accounts, in slightly bulbous free extremities; according to others, in a plexus of excessively fine fibrils. A large share of the cutaneous nerves is distri- buted to the hair-follicles, whilst some end in special terminal organs, namely, end-bulbs, tactile corpuscles, and Pacinian bodies. The last- named bodies are seated in the subcutaneous tissue. End-bulbs are found on the glans penis and glans clitoridis, and in some of the papillae on the red border of the lips. The tactile corpuscles of the skin are more numerous; they are found in certain papillae of the palm and sole, more sparingly in those of the back of the hand and foot, the palmar surface of the fore-arm, and the nipple. Such papillae commonly contain no blood-vessels, and are named "tactile," (fig. 144, 5), as dis- tinguished from the "vascular" papillae (a). Sometimes, however, a Fig. 143. Fig. 143. — Magnified View op four of the Ridges of the Epider- mis, CAUSED BY ROWS OP Papilla beneath, with short Furrows or Notches across them : also the Openings of the Sudoriferous Ducts (after Brescliet).