440 THE TESTICLES AND ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. ramified and sacculated. Besides these there are larger recesses or lacunae, opening by oblique orifices turned forwards or down the canal. These are most abundant along the floor of the urethra, especially in its bulbous part. One large and conspicuous recess, situated on the upper surface of the fossa navicularis, is named the lacuna magna. A median fold of the membrane rising from the inferior surface of this part of the urethra has been named the valve of the fossa navicularis. Cowper's glands.—In the bulbous portion of the urethra, near its anterior end, are the two openings of the ducts of Coivpef s glands. These small glandular bodies are seated farther back than the bulb, beneath the fore part of the membranous portion of the urethra, between the two layers of the subpubic fascia, the anterior layer sup- porting them against the urethra. The arteries of the bulb pass above, and the transverse fibres of the compressor urethra? beneath these glands. They are two small firm rounded masses, about the size of peas, and of a deep yellow colour. They are compound vesicular or racemose glands, composed of several small lobules held together by a firm investment. This latter, as well as the walls of the ducts, con- tains muscular tissue. The branched ducts which commence in saccular crypts, unite outside each gland 'to form a single excretory duct. These ducts run forward near each other for about an inch or an inch and a half, first in the spongy substance and then beneath the mucous mem- brane, and terminate in the floor of the bulbous part of the urethra by two minute orifices opening obliquely. These glands secrete a viscid fluid, the use of which is not known ; they appear to diminish in old age ; sometimes there is only one present, and it is said both may be absent. Occasionally there is a third glandular body in front of and between Cowper's glands ; this has been named the anterior prostate or ante prostatic gland. The muscles in connection with the urethra and penis have been already described with the muscles of the perineum in the first volume. THE TESTICLES, AND THEIR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. The testicles or testes, the two glandular organs which secrete the seminal fluid, are situated in the pouch of integument termed the scro- tum, each being suspended by the spermatic cord. The latter parts will be first described. The spermatic cord.—The parts which form this cord are the excretory duct of the testicle, named the vas deferens, the spermatic artery and veins, lymphatics, nerves, and connecting areolar tissue. Besides this last the cord has several coverings in common with the testis. The structures mentioned come together to form the cord at the internal or deep abdominal ring, and, extending through the abdominal wall obliquely downwards and towards the middle line, escape at the superficial or external abdominal ring, whence the cord descends over the front of the pubes into the scrotum. COVERINGS OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. The inguinal canal.—By the term inguinal canal is understood the space occupied by the spermatic cord as it passes through the abdominal