718 UTERO GESTATION. •as these latter, while they still continue to grow to some extent, do not increase in number, or in the complication of their ramifications, they gradually become more sparse, thin, and elongated, and lose their vascularity. An active process of increase meanwhile is going on in the villi placed on the uterine side of the ovum, by which, while they become larger and longer, and penetrate more deeply into the uterine decidua, they also become more minutely and extensively ramified. Changes at the same time occur in the disposition of the decidua placentalis, by which it receives into its substance, and is more and more intimately interlocked with the developing chorionic villi. In the earlier stages, as up to the eighth or ninth week, the foetal and maternal structures may be separated by the withdrawal of the villi from the recesses of the decidua in which they are sunk ; but by the middle of the third month, this becomes no longer possible in consequence of the closer combination or interlocking of the two structures ; in the remaining half of the third month the union becomes more intimate, and by the middle of the fourth month the completion of the placenta is effected by the continued increase in size and modification of the structure of the maternal and foetal elements. Structure of the Placenta.—At the time when the placenta has attained its characteristic form and peculiar structure, or after the fourth month of pregnancy, it forms a large discoid or lenticular mass interposed in a limited space between the foetal membranes and the uterus. It presents a foetal and a uterine surface, the former having implanted into it, usually near the middle, the umbilical cord, which carries to the placenta the umbilical arteries and veins of the foetus, and is covered by a tubular prolongation of the amnion, passing over it from that membrane where it lines the placenta to the abdominal integument of the foetus. The placenta continues to increase in size with the foetus, and when it has attained its full dimensions, it has a width of from seven to eight inches, and a thickness of about one inch and a quarter. But towards the circumference it rapidly thins, where it becomes continuous with the chorion and decidua. The foetal surface is covered by the chorion and amnion, and presents the larger divisions of the umbilical vessels before they dip into the substance. The uterine surface shows a subdivision into a number of large lobes, sometimes called cotyledons, which are covered with a layer of decidua (d. serotina) passing over the whole of this surface, and sending septal prolongations into the placenta between the lobes, which in some places run almost as far as the foetal surface. The more uniform substance of the placenta (parenchyma) within these lobes, consists, on the one hand, of highly-developed and compli- cated tufts of foetal villi, which adhere to the chorion by vascular stems of considerable size and strength, and subdivide again and again into very complex ramifications ; and on the other, of certain dilated vascular spaces continuous with the uterine vessels, the outlines of which follow closely the ramifications of the villi throughout every inflection of their surface. These spaces are doubtless to be regarded as belonging to the maternal system, but their exact nature it is very difficult to deter- mine in the fully formed condition. They probably originally possess walls of their own, and are contained in a bounding substance of uterine or decidual tissue ; but this has become so reduced in thickness, or so