rHYSICAL PROPERTIES OF MUCOUS MEMBRANES. 205 the lachrymal canals until, under the name of the conjunctival mem- brane, it spreads over the fore part of the eyeball and inside of the eyelids, on the edges of which it encounters the skin. Other offsets from the nasal part of the membrane line the frontal, ethmoidal, sphe- noidal and maxillary sinuses, and from the upper part of the pharynx a prolongation extends on each side along the Eustachian tube to line that passage and the tympanum of the ear. Besides these there are offsets from the alimentary membrane to line the salivary, pancreatic, and biliary ducts, and the gall-bladder. The genito-urinary membrane invests the inside of the urinary bladder and the whole tract of the urine in both sexes, from the interior of the kidneys to the orifice of the urethra, also the seminal ducts and vesicles in the male, and the vagina, uterus, and Fallopian tubes in the female. Attachment.—The mucous membranes are attached by one surface to the parts which they line or cover by means of areolar tissue, named " submucous," which differs greatly in quantity as well as in consistency in different parts. The connection is in some cases close and firm, as in the cavity of the nose and its adjoining sinuses; in other instances, especially in cavities subject to frequent variation in capacity, like the gullet and stomach, it is lax'and allows some degree of shifting of the connected surfaces. In such cases as the last-mentioned the mucous membrane is accordingly thrown into folds when the cavity is narrowed by contraction of the exterior coats of the organ, and of course these folds, or rufjce, as they are named, are effaced by distension. But in certain parts the mucous membrane forms permanent folds, not capable of being thus effaced, which project conspicuously into the cavity which it lines. The best-marked example of these is presented by the valvules comiiventes seen in the small intestine. These, as is more fully de- scribed in the special anatomy of the intestines, are crescent-shaped duplicatures of the membrane, with connecting areolar tissue between their lamina?, which are placed transversely and follow one another at very short intervals along a great part of the intestinal tract. The chief purpose of the valvule conniventes is doubtless to increase the surface of the absorbing mucous membrane within the cavity, and it has also been supposed that they serve mechanically to delay the ali- mentary mass in its progress downwards. A mechanical office has also been assigned to a series of oblique folds of a similar permanent kind, though on a smaller scale, which exist within the cystic duct. Physical properties.—In most situations the mucous membranes are nearly opaque or but slightly translucent. They possess no great degree of tenacity and but little elasticity, and hence are readily torn by a moderate force. As to colour, they cannot be said intrinsically to have any, and when perfectly deprived of blood they accordingly appear white or at most somewhat grey. The redness which they commonly exhibit during life, and retain in greater or less degree in various parts after death, is due to the blood contained in their vessels, although it is true that, after decomposition has set in, the red matter of the blood, becoming dissolved, transudes through the coats of the vessels, and gives a general red tinge to the rest of the tissue. The degree of redness exhibited by the mucous membranes after death is greater in the foetus and infant than in the adult. It is greater too in certain situations; thus, of the different parts of the alimentary canal, it is most marked in the stomach, pharynx, and rectum. Again, the intensity