THE CEREBRUM. 550 particles, aggregated into small compound masses, which are again collected into larger groups. It is composed of the so-called amyla- ceous or amyloid bodies, and of earthy salts combined with animal Fig. 385. Fig. 385.—View of the Medulla Oblongata, Pons Varolii, Crura Cerebri, and Central Parts op the Encephalon from the Right Side. (Allen Thomson.) The corpus striatum and thalamus opticus have been preserved in connection with the central lobe and crura cerebri, while the remainder of the cerebrum has been removed. St, upper surface of the corpus striatum ; Th, back part of the thalamus opticus ; C\ placed on the middle of the five or six convolutions constituting the central lobe or island of Reil, the cerebral substance being removed from its circumference ; Sy, fissure of Sylvius, from which these convolutions radiate, and in which are seen the white stria? of the olfactory tract; I, the olfactory tract divided and hanging down from the groove in the convolution which lodges it ; TI, optic nerves a little way in front of the commissure ;. a, right corpus _ albicans with the tuber cinereum and infundibulum in front of it; h, hypophysis or pituitary body ; e, external, and i, internal corpus geniculatum at the back part of the optic tract ; P, peduncle or crus of the cerebrum ; /, fillet ; III, right oculo- motor nerve ; p, pineal gland ; q, corpora quadrigemina ; IV, trochlear nerve rising from v, the valve of Vieussens ; V, placed on the pons Varolii above the right nervus trige- minus ; s, the superior, on, the middle, and in, the inferior peduncles of the crus cerebelli cut short; VI, the sixth nerve ; VII a, facial nerve ; VII b, auditory nerve ; on the medulla oblongata the parts are indicated as follows : VIII, placed opposite to the cut end of the pneumo-gastric nerve ; a, the glossopharyngeal ; and I, the uppermost fibres of the spinal accessory nerve ; IX, the hypoglossal nerve ; p a, anterior pyramid ; o, olivary body ; a r, arciform fibres ; p p, posterior pyramid ; r, restiform body ; tr, eminence corresponding to the tubercle of Rolando ; at the commencement of the spinal cord, e a,. indicates the anterior, c p, the posterior, and c I, the lateral columns ; C I, anterior and posterior roots of the sub occipital or first cervical nerve.