THE ABDOMINAL VISCERA. 346 tissue, are especially numerous at the lower end of the tube. A few of the smallest which are found in the immediate neighbourhood of the opening into the stomach are situate almost wholly in the substance of the mucous membrane. Next to the submucous coat the mucous membrane is bounded by longitudinally disposed plain muscular fibres which, imperfect above, form a continuous layer towards the lower end of the tube (muscularis mucosae). Duplicity of the oesophagus in part of its extent, without other abnormality, has been recorded (Blaes, quoted by Meckel). The blood-vessels of the oesophagus have for the most part a longitudinal arrangement; lymphatics are found in both the submucous and mucous coats, a certain amount of lymphoid tissue also being present in the latter. The nerves form .a gangliated plexus between the two layers of the muscular coat, as in other parts of the alimentary canal. THE ABDOMINAL VISCEEA. As that part of the digestive canal which is found beneath the dia- phragm, aud consists of the stomach and intestines, is situated within the cavity of the abdomen, and occupies, together with the liver (the secretion of which it receives), by far the greater part of that cavity, the general topographic relations of the abdominal viscera may here be briefly explained. THE ABDOMEN. The abdomen is the largest cavity in the body, and is lined by an extensive and complicated serous membrane, named the peritoneum. It extends from the diaphragm above to the levatores ani muscles below, and is subdivided into two parts: an upper and larger part, the abdomen, properly so called; and a lower part, named the pelvic cavity. The limits between the abdominal and pelvic portions of the cavity are marked by the brim of the pelvis. The enclosing walls of this cavity are formed principally of muscles and tendons which have been already described. They are strengthened internally by a layer of fibrous tissue lying between the muscles and the peritoneum, the different parts of which are described under the names of fascia transversalis, fascia iliaca, and anterior lumbar fascia. These walls are pierced by several apertures, through which are transmitted the great vessels and some other parts, such as the several diaphragmatic apertures for the aorta, vena cava, and oesophagus, and the femoral arches and inguinal canals. In the median fibrous substance of the anterior wall lies the umbilical cicatrix. The cavity of the pelvis is also lined with, strong fasciae, and partially by peritoneum, and at its lower part are the apertures for the transmission of the rectum and the genito-urinary passages. Kegions.—For the purpose of enabling reference to be made to the situation and condition of the contained organs, the abdomen proper has been artificially subdivided into certain regions, the bounda- ries of which are indicated by lines drawn upon the surface of the body (fig. 243). Thus, two horizontal lines drawn round the body divide the