242 THE HEART. very scanty covering of this membrane (3, 2), inasmuch as that vessel enters the right auricle almost immediately after passing through the diaphragm, and is only partially surrounded by a reflection of the peri- cardium in the narrow interval between these parts. None of the vessels, indeed, joining the heart, with the exception of the aorta and pulmonary artery where they are united together, receive a complete covering from the pericardium, or can be said to be entirely enveloped by the sac. In structure the serous layer of the pericardium agrees with that of serous membranes generally, except that no apertures have as yet been discovered in it by which its cavity communicates with lymphatic vessels. When the left pulmonary artery and subjacent pulmonary vein are separatedr a fold of the pericardium will be seen between them, which has been termed by Marshall the " vestigial fold of the pericardium." It is formed by a duplicature of the serous layer, including- areolar and fatty tissue, tog-ether with blood-vessels, and nerves, and is from half to three-quarters of an inch in length, and from half to one inch deep. It extends from the left superior intercostal vein above the pulmonary artery downwards to the side of the left auricle, where it is lost in a narrow streak which crosses round the lower left pulmonary vein. This fold is a vestige of a left superior vena cava (duct of Cuvier), which exists in early em- bryonic life, (Marshall, " On the development of the great anterior veins in Man and Mammalia," Philosoph. Trans. 1850.) The pericardium is in relation in front and behind with the mediastina and their contents. Anteriorly also it is overlapped by the pleura? and to some extent by the lungs, except below, where it approaches the surface in the angular space to the left of the lower piece of the sternum. At the sides it J is in contact with the phrenic nerves, as well as with the pleura? and their contained viscera. Its relations to the diaphragm and great vessels have been already noticed. THE HEART. The heart is a hollow muscular organ, divided by a longitudinal sep- tum into a right and a left half, each of which is again subdivided by a transverse constriction into two compartments, communicating with each other, and named auricle and ventricle. Its general form is that of a blunt cone. Enclosed, as before said, in the pericardium, it is placed behind the sternum and the costal cartilages (fig. 174 ; on page 254), the broader end, or base, by which it is attached, being directed upwards, backwards, and to the right, and extending from the level of the fourth to that of the eighth dorsal vertebra ; the apex downwards, forwards, and to the left. In the living subject its stroke against the wall of the chest is felt in the space between the cartilages of the fifth and sixth ribs, a little below and to the inner side of the left mammilla (3£ inches from middle line of sternum and 1 \ inch below nipple): in the dead body the apex is a little higher than during life. The heart, therefore, has a very oblique position in the chest, and projects farther into the left than into the right half of the cavity. Its position is affected to a certain extent by that of the body ; thus it comes more into contact with the anterior wall of the chest when the body is in the prone posture or is lying on the left side. In inspiration, on the other hand, when the diaphragm sinks and the lungs expand, it recedes slightly from the chest-wall. At its base the heart is attached to the great blood-vessels; moreover,