103 GROWTH OF BONE. probably derived by descent from similar cells equally abundant beneath the periosteum. The cells or corpuscles in question, in whatever way produced, are disposed in a layer or layers upon the walls of the secondary or medullary spaces, in immediate contact with the new osteogenic deposit, which here, as in the intramembranous ossification, they probably produce (fig's. 60, 62). Here too the osteogenic substance is finely reticular, and retains that character when calcified; for the secondary bony deposit is formed in layers made up of finely reticulating fibres, like the lamellseof perfect bone shown in fig. 47. On a careful inspection, and with a certain adjustment of the light, fine stria? may be seen in many parts indicating the obliquely decussating fibres of the newly formed laminae. The structure in some measure reminds us of the secondary deposit inside the oblong cells of the wood of coniferous trees, in which the ligneous matter is arranged in fibres, or rather in fine lines, running obliquely round the wall of the cell and crossing one another in alternate layers. The lacunas are formed, as described in the intramembranous ossification, by some of the granular corpuscles becoming embedded in the osteogenic substance, and inclosed in a cavity formed round them by its further deposit (fig. 62,d). Lacunae formed from cartilage-cells exist but very scantily. Examples occur in articular cartilage, and in that of the pubic symphysis, when, as commonly happens in mature life, the part of these tissues adjoining the bone is encroached on by a species of ossification, as noticed at page 97. The ossifying process in this case is mere calcification of the cartilage, and stellate lacuna), no^ intercommunicating by canaliculi, remain in the partially ossified cells. When this hard tissue is decalcified by an acid, the original cells and cartilaginous matrix become apparent. As ossification advances towards the ends of the bone, the portion as yet cartilaginous continues to grow at the same time, and increases in every dimension. The part already osseous increases also in circum- ference ; the medullary canal, of which for some time there is no appearance, begins to be excavated in the interior by absorption, and the sides of the shaft acquire compactness and solidity. The increase in girth is brought about by deposition of bone at the surface under- neath the periosteum. It was at one time supposed that a formation of cartilage precedes the bone also in this situation; but such is not the case, for the vascular soft tissue in immediate contact with the surface of the growing bone is not cartilage, but a soft substance con- taining fibres and osteoblasts; in fact, the increase takes place by intra- membranous ossification, and accordingly the Haversian canals of the shaft are formed in the same way as those of the tabular bones of the skull,—that is, the osseous matter is not only laid on in strata parallel to the surface of the bone, but is deposited around processes of the vascular membranous tissue which extend from the surface obliquely into the substance of the shaft (fig. 62) ; and the canals in which these vascular processes lie, becoming narrowed by the deposition of concentric osseous laminae, eventually remain as the Haversian canals. Ossification having thus proceeded for some time in the shaft, at length begins in the extremities of the bone from one or more inde- pendent centres, and extends through the cartilage, leaving, however, a thick superficial layer of it unossified, which permanently covers the articular end of the bone. The epiphyses thus formed continue long separated from the shaft or diaphysis by an intervening portion of cartilage, which is at last ossified, and the bone is then consolidated. Growth and absorption of Bone.—The time of final junction of the epiphyses is different in different bones; in many it does not arrive until the body has reached its full stature. Meanwhile