64 CONNECTIVE TISSUE. cross sections of a tendon or ligament present different figures of the sectional areas of the bundles. A sheath of dense areolar tissue covers the tendons and ligaments on the outside, and a variable amount of the same tissue lies between the larger fasciculi ; little in tendons, more in some fibrous membranes. The surface of a tendon or of any other part consisting of this texture, appears marked across the direction of the fasciculi with alternate light and dark streaks, which give it a peculiar aspect, not unlike that of a watered ribbon. This appearance is owing to the wavy course of the filaments, for when the light falls on them their bend- ings naturally give rise to alternate lights and shadows. If a very fine tendon, such as those in the tail of the mouse or rat, or a portion only of a larger one, is examined under the microscope in an indifferent fluid, and a little dilute acetic acid is cautiously added, the filaments are seen to swell up and become indistinct, and the acid discloses the existence of chains of oblong flat- tened cells lying between the tendon-bundles (fig. 36). These cells, Fig. 36. Fig. 36.—Tendon of Mouse's Tail, stained with Log- wood ; showing Chains op Cells between the Tendon- Bundles. 175 DIAMETERS. Fig. 37. Fig. 37.—Eight Cells from the same Tendon as represented in Fig. 36. 425 diameters. The nuclei, with their numerous nucleoli, were deeply coloured by the logwood. which are represented more highly magnified in fig. 37, agree, in almost every point except in shape, with the connective-tissue cor- puscles previously described: each consists of a delicate protoplasmic body, thicker at the centre than at the sides, and containing a more or less flattened, round, or oval clear nucleus, with several nucleoli. The ends of adjacent cells are in close apposition, so as to form, as before noticed, long chains of cells in the tendon, and the nucleus * is generally so situated towards one end of the cell as to be in close proximity to the nucleus of an adjacent cell; they thus present the appearance of being arranged in pairs. Here and there a third nucleus, with a small amount of protoplasm, may be seen interpolated between two such cells (fig. 36). The rows of cells lie flattened against the tendon-bundles, the middle of each cell lying in the angular space between three or more bundles and a lamellar prolongation extends