PAPILLJE OF THE CORIUM. 215 a different nature, and are caused by the wasting of the soft parts which the skin covers. Fine curvilinear ridges, with intervening furrows, mark the skin of the palm and sole ; these are caused by ranges of the papillae, to be immediately described. Papillae.—The free surface of the corium is beset with small emi- nences thus named, which seem chiefly intended to contribute to the Fig. 141. Fig. 142. Fig. 141.—Papilla, as seen with a Microscope, on a portion op the True Skin, PROM WHICH THE CUTICLE HAS BEEN REMOVED (after Breschet). Fig. 142.—Compound Papilla prom the Palm of the Hand, magnified 60 Diameters. a, basis of a papilla ; b, b, divisions or branches of the same ; c, c, branches belonging to papilla? of which the bases are hidden from view (after Kolliker). perfection of the skin as an organ of touch, seeing that they are highly developed where the sense of touch is exquisite, and vice versd. They serve also to extend the surface for the production of the cuticular tissue, and hence are large-sized and numerous under the nail. The papillae are large, and in close array on the palm and palmar surface of the fingers, and on the corresponding parts of the foot (fig. 142). There they are ranged in lines forming the curvilinear ridges seen when the skin is still covered with its thick epidermis. They are of a conical figure, rounded or blunt at the top, and sometimes cleft into two or more points, when they are named compound papillae. They are received into corresponding pits on the under surface of the cuticle. In structure they resemble the superficial layer of the corium generally, and consist of a homogeneous tissue, presenting only faint traces of fibrillation, together with a few fine elastic fibres. On the palm, sole, and nipple, where they are mostly of the compound variety, they measure from t° tfo °f an inch m height. In the ridges, the larger papillae are placed sometimes in single but more commonly in double rows, with smaller ones between them (fig. 156), that is, also on the ridges, for there are none in the intervening grooves. These ridges are marked at short and tolerably regular intervals with notches, or short transverse furrows, in each of which, about its middle, is the minute funnel-shaped orifice of the duct of a sweat-gland (fig. 143). In other parts of the skin endowed with less sensibility, the papillae are smaller, shorter, fewer in number, and irregularly scattered. On the face they are reduced to from ?l to of an inch ; and here they at parts disappear altogether, or are replaced by slightly elevated reticular ridges. In parts where they are naturally small, they often become enlarged by chronic inflammation round the margin of sores and ulcers