25 CHEMICAL COMPOSITION. CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF THE BLOOD. The blood is slightly alkaline in reaction. Carbonic acid, oxygen, and nitrogen gases may be extracted from it by exhaustion by means of the Torricellian vacuum aided by gentle warmth. Carbonic acid is yielded in largest proportion, oxygen next, and nitrogen least. The nitrogen is simply retained by absorption, i.e., in the same proportion as by water at the same pressure and temperature. The oxygen is held by the coloured matter of the red corpuscles ; it may be completely ex- pelled from this combination by means of carbonic oxide gas (Bernard). The carbonic acid, which is obtained in larger proportion from serum than from blood, is in great part combined with carbonate of soda in a bicarbonate ; from this combination it is set loose in vacuo if the colour- ing matter of the blood is present. Arterial blood yields more oxygen and less carbonic acid than venous blood. On being evaporated, 1000 parts of blood yieid on an average, about 790 of water and 210 of solid residue. This residue has nearly the same ultimate composition as flesh. A comparative examination of dried ox-blood and dried flesh (beef), by Playfair and Boeckmann gave the following mean result:— TLed Corpuscles.—The specific gravity of the red corpuscles in a moist state is calculated at 1-088. They consist, as already stated, of an insoluble colourless stroma, and a diffused red matter, which is soluble and separable by water. The stroma consists of various substances, chief among which are 2MragIobuMn, cholesterin, and a phosphuretted fat which was named by O. Liebreich protagon, but which, as Hoppe-Seyler has shown, itself consists of two distinct substances—lecithin and neurin. If blood be shaken up with ether, the fatty matters"of the stroma are dissolved, and the colouring matter is in this way set free (Her- mann). Paraglobulin will be most conveniently described with the serum of the blood, in which it also occurs, and from which it is more readily obtainable ; and, for a similar reason, the consideration of the other two substances will be deferred until the nervous system has been treated of.* The soluble coloured ingredient of the corpuscles has been named haemoglobin (cruorin of Stokes). This substance, although crystal- lizable, is indiffusible, and, according to Hoppe-Seyler, contains, when pure, in 100 parts 54*2 of carbon, 21*5 of oxygen, 16*0 of nitrogen, 7*27 of hydrogen, 0'7 of sulphur, and 0*42 of iron ; orOiaoo,H960, * The nucleus of the nucleated red corpuscle consists chiefly of mucin (Kiihne, L. Brunton). Mtrog-en Oxygen Ashes . Carbon Hydrogen .Flesh. 51-86 7-58 15-03 21-30 4-23 Blood. 51-96 7-25 15-07 21-30 4-42