THE STOMACH. 349 THE STOMACH. The oesophagus, as already said, terminates in the stomach, from which the intestine leads off. This organ is seated in the left hypochondriac and the epigastric regions, extending somewhat into the right hypochondrium. It lies in part against the anterior wall of the abdomen, and in part beneath the liver and diaphragm, and above the transverse colon. In shape it is somewhat conical or pyriform. The left extremity (fig. 244, c), is the larger, and is named the cardiac, great or splenic end. The rigid or small end is also named the pyloric extremity. Of its two orifices, the one by which food enters from the oesophagus is named the cardiac orifice (o), the other, by which it passes into the duodenum, and which is placed on a somewhat lower level, and more forwards, is the pyloric orifice (p). The cardiac orifice is two or three inches from the great ex- tremity, which projects to the left, forming the great cul-de-sac or fundus. Between the cardiac and the pyloric orifices, the outline of the stomach is curved along its upper and lower borders. The upper border, about three or four inches in length, is concave, and is named the lesser curvature (b); while the lower border, which is much longer, and, except to- wards the pylorus, convex, forms the greater curvature (a). Towards the pylorus, the small end of the stomach describes a double bend, opposite to the first turn of which is a prominence or bulging, sometimes named the small cul-de-sac or antrum pylori (d). Dimensions.—These vary greatly in different subjects, and also according to the state of distension of the organ. When moderately filled, its length is about ten or twelve inches ; and its diameter at the widest part, from four to five inches. It weighs, when freed from other parts, about four ounces and a half in the male, and some- what less in the female (Clendinning). Connections.—The borders of the stomach are connected with folds •of peritoneum in their whole extent. Thus, the superior border is connected with the under surface of the liver by a duplicative of peri- toneum, the gastro-hepatic or lesser omentum, and at the left of the cardia between it and the diaphragm is a small fold termed the gastro- phrenic ligament ; to the inferior border is attached the great omentum, beneath which is the transverse arch of the colon, while at the left extremity it is connected with the spleen by a duplicature of peritoneum, continuous with the left border of the great omentum, and named the gastro-splenic ligament. The blood-vessels and lym- Fig. 244. o a Fig. 244.—Diagrammatic Outline op the Stomach. a, great curvature; b, lesser curva- ture ; c, left end, great cul-cle-sac, or fundus ; d, small cul-de-sac, or antrum pylori; o, oesophageal orifice or cardia ; p, duodenal orifice or pylorus.