MUSCULAR TISSUE. 116 the muscular fibres terminate in rounded ends, which are received into corresponding depressions of the tendinous structure, to which they cling; the connective tissue of the one being continuous with that of the other (fig. 74 A). Fig. 74. Fig. 74.—Ending of Muscle in Tendon (Kolliker). A, Oblique connection, from the gastrocnemius muscle, 250 diameters, b, muscular fibres with rounded ends, united by inter- stitial connective tissue ; c to a, part of the tendon. B, Direct continuity of muscular substance, a, into tendinous tissue, b, from an intercostal muscle. 350 diameters. In this oblique mode of attachment, according* to Weis- mann and du Bois-Eeymond, the ends of the muscular fibres are, in some cases at least, not rounded and covered by sarco- lemma, but terminate abruptly as if cut across ; being, as it were, cemented to the tendon. In surface view the ends present a facetted appearance. Ellis, in opposition to Kolliker, describes the connection of striated muscle with tendon as taking place in the following manner :—When a muscular fibre is about to end in a tendon, its component fibrils are collected into bundles of different lengths and sizes like the roots of a tree. Around each bundle tendinous tissue is collected, forming a sheath which appears gradually to cease as it is continued backwards on the undivided fibre. The muscular fibrils of a bundle in approach- ing the tendon gradually cease, each having probably its own tendinous thread to fix it. He states that, where the attachment is oblique, as in the gastrocnemius and soleus, every fibre is provided with its separate tendon and is continuous with it as above described, and that the increasing thickness of the main tendon from above downwards is due to successive additions, in the form of strata, of the contributing tendons from the lower placed layers of muscular fibres. In attaching themselves to the skin and mucous membranes, the muscular fibres divide into pointed processes or fine filaments which are continuous with those of the connective tissue (Hyde Salter). Blood-vessels.—The blood-vessels of the muscular tissue are ex- tremely abundant, so that, when they are successfully filled with coloured injection, the fleshy part of the muscle contrasts strongly with its tendons. The arteries, accompanied by their associate veins, •enter the muscle at various points, and divide into branches : these pass among the fasciculi, crossing over them, and dividing more and more as they get between the finer divisions of the muscle; at length,