173 VEINS. veins possess considerable strength, more even, according to some authorities, than arteries of the same calibre. The number of their coats has been differently reckoned, and the tissues composing them differently described by different writers, and this discrepancy of state- ment is perhaps partly due to the circumstance that all veins are not perfectly alike in structure. In most veins of tolerable size, three coats may be distinguished, which, as in the arteries, have been named ex- ternal, middle, and internal. Internal coat.—This is less brittle than that of the arteries, and therefore admits of being more readily peeled off without tearing ; but, in other respects, the two are much alike. It consists of an epithelioid layer, a subepithelial connective tissue layer, said to be the most marked in the smaller veins, and the usual elastic layers; these occur as dense lamelliform networks of longitudinal elastic fibres, and but seldom as fenestrated membranes. Middle coat.—This coat is much thinner than that of the arteries, and its muscular tissue has a much larger admixture of white connec- tive tissue. Its fibres are both longitudinal and circular, the one set alternating with the other in layers. The former are well-developed elastic fibres, longitudinally reticulating ; the circular layers consist of bundles of muscular fibre-cells and white connective tissue, mixed with a smaller proportion of fine elastic fibres. In medium-sized veins the middle coat contains several successions of the circular and longitudinal layers, but the latter are all more or less connected together by elastic fibres passing through the intervening circular layers. In the larger veins the middle coat is less developed, especially as regards its mus- cular fibres, but in such cases the deficiency may be supplied by muscu- larity of the outer coat. The middle coat is wanting altogether in most of the hepatic part of the vena cava, and in the great hepatic veins (Kolliker) ; its muscularity is best marked in the splenic and portal veins. External coat.—This is usually thicker than the middle coat; it consists of dense areolar tissue and longitudinal elastic fibres. In cer- tain large veins, as pointed out by Remak, this coat contains a consi- derable amount of plain or non-striated muscular tissue. The muscular elements are well marked in the whole extent of the abdominal cava,, in which they form a longitudinal network, occupying the inner part of the external coat; and they may be traced into the renal, azygos, and external iliac veins. The muscular tissue of the external coat is also well developed in the trunks of the hepatic veins and in that of the vena porta?, whence it extends into the splenic and superior mesenteric. Other veins present peculiarities of structure, especially in respect of muscu- larity. 1. The striated muscular tissue of the auricles of the heart is prolonged for some way on the adjoining part of the venee cavse and pulmonary veins. 2. The plain muscular tissue is largely developed in the veins of the gravid uterus, in which, as well as in some other veins, it is described as being present in all three coats. 3. On the other hand, muscular tissue is wanting in the following- veins, viz., a. those of the maternal part of the placenta; b, most of the veins, of the brain and pia mater ; c, the veins of the retina ; d, the venous sinuses of the dura mater ; e, the cancellar veins of the bones ; /, the venous spaces of the corpora cavernosa. In most of these cases the veins consist merely of an epithe- lioid layer and a layer or layers of connective tissue more or less developed; in the corpora cavernosa the epithelium is applied to the trabecular tissue. It may be added that in the thickness of their coats the superficial veins surpass the deep, and the veins of the lower limbs those of the upper.