THE VEGETABLE CELL. different organised structures found in plants and animals originate directly or indirectly by means of elementary corpuscles, which have been named " cells." These so-called cells, remaining as separate cor- puscles in the fluids, and grouped together in the solids, persisting in some cases with but little change, in others undergoing a partial or thorough transformation, produce the varieties of form and structure met with in the animal and vegetable textures. Nay, the germ from which an animal originally springs, so far at least as it has been recognised under a distinct form, appears as a cell; and the embryo, in its earliest stages, is but a cluster of cells produced apparently from that primordial one; no distinction of texture being seen till the process of transformation of the cells has begun. No branch of knowledge can be said to be complete ; but, even now that between a quarter and half a century has elapsed since the pro- mulgation of the cell-doctrine, there is, perhaps, none which can be more justly regarded as in a state of progress than that which relates to the origin and development of the textures, and much of the current opinion on the subject is uncertain, and must be received with caution. THE VEGETABLE CELL. Fig. 1. Ill If we view under the microscope the early embryo of one of the higher plants (fig. 1.), we see that it is built up entirely of a number of closely adherent vesicles, — these are the elementary cells. Each of those cells consists of an external membranous invest- ment (a), the cell-wall, containing in its interior a finely granular transparent sub- stance of semi-fluid consistence—the proto- plasm (b),—in this is imbedded at one part a more solid looking body of rounded form (the nucleus, c), which again itself con- tains generally one or two distinct strongly refracting particles (nucleoli). On closer ex- amination it may be observed that in many cells the protoplasm is not absolutely quies- cent as at first sight appears, but on the contrary exhibits slow streaming movements of its substance, indicating a certain amount of vital activity. This is more particularly the case in the more rapidly growing parts, where also it is not uncommon to find two nuclei in a cell. This, as will be seen later on, is an indication of the commencing division of the cell into two : by the con- stant repetition of this process the growth of the plant is effected. In their early condition all plants are similarly composed of an agglomeration of cells, and some retain this primitive condition throughout life ; in all the higher classes, however, by changes in the form and in the contents of the cells, various modifi- cations occur, by means of which the different textures of the plant are produced. Some of these are shown in the accompanying figures Fig. 1.—Embryo of a Dico- tyledonous Plant. Mode- rately Magnified. a, cell-envelope ; b, proto- plasm; c, nucleus.