CARTILAGE. 78 ELASTIC OR YELLOW CARTILAGE. Fif The epiglottis and cornicula of the larynx, the cartilages of the ear and of the Eustachian tube, differ so much from the foregoing, both in intimate structure and outward characters, that they have been included in a class apart, under the name of the "elastic," "yellow," or "spongy" cartilages. These are opaque and some- what yellow, are more flexible and tough than the ordinary cartilages, and have little tendency to ossify. They are made up of cells and a matrix, but the latter is everywhere pervaded with fibres (fig. 47), except sometimes in a little area or narrow zone left round each of the cells. These fibres resist the action of acetic acid ; they are in most parts short, straight, and confusedly intersect- ing each other in all directions, like the filaments in a piece of felt; in such parts the matrix has a rough indis- tinctly granular look. Here and there the fibres are longer and more fasciculated, but still interlace at short dis- tances. In thin sections the cells readily drop out from the matrix, leaving empty the cavities which they occupied. Pig. 47.—Section op the Epi- glottis, MAGNIFIED 380 DIAME- TERS (Baly). In the foetus the matrix of elastic cartilage is at first homogeneous and hyaline, and the elastic fibres are subsequently produced in it. They appear first in those parts of the matrix which are in immediate connection with the cartilage-cells (Hertwig, Deutschmann). In the cartilage of the external ear this change occurs about the fifth month of intra-uterine life, and is said to commence in the more central parts, i.e., those furthest from the perichondrium (Rabl-Euckhard.) WHITE FIBRO-CARTILAGE. This is a substance consisting of a mixture of the fibrous and carti- laginous tissues, and so far partaking of the qualities of both. Like hyaline cartilage, it possesses firmness and elasticity, but these pro- perties are united with a much greater degree of flexibility and tough- ness. It presents itself under various forms, which may be enumerated under the following heads. 1. Inter articular fibro-cartilages. These are interposed between the moving surfaces of bones, or rather of articular cartilages, in several of the joints. They serve to maintain the apposition of the opposed surfaces in their various motions, to give ease to the gliding movement, and to moderate the effects of great pressure. In the joint of the lower jaw and in that of the clavicle they have the form of round or oval plates, growing thinner towards their centre; in the knee-joint they are curved in form of a sickle, and thinned away towards their concave Tree edge. In all cases their surfaces are free; while they are fixed by synovial or fibrous membrane at their circumference or extremities. 'The synovial membrane of the joint is prolonged for a short distance upon these fibro-cartilages, from their attached margin.