BV the SAME AIJTHOR Crown 8vo, cloth, Illustrated, price 2s. 6d. net, or by post 2s. 9d. SUCCESSFUL JAM MAKING AND FRUIT BOTTLING BY LUCY H. YATES AUTHOR OF “modern HOUSECRAFT" “ THE PROFESSION OF COOKERY" “the management of money" etc. Y'HE demand for choice fruit preserves both for the home market and for export is enormous and steadily on the increase, which affords a splendid opening for the enterprise of fruit growers and country dwellers. It is the aim of this book to show how success in the art of jam and jelly making, and fruit bottling, may be attained and turned to profitable account. SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS. Chap. I. General Considerations.—II. The Apparatus. III. The Selection of Fruits.—IV. The Treatment of Fruit.—V. Sugar.—VI. Recipes for Different Fruits. —VII. Some Specialities.—VIII. Storing and Packing. —IX. Marketing of Stock. A FEW EXTRACTS FROM REVIEWS. The Globe.—“. . . The subject is treated so sensibly and practically that the housewife, as well as those who are concerned with jam making and fruit bottling on commercial lines, will do well to consult its pages . . ." Country Gentleman afid Land and IVater Illustrated.—“ It is exceedingly practical, and any reader who thinks about turning a considerable supply of fruit —his own or his districts—to profitable account should consult Miss Yates on the mysteries of the various methods of preservation from pulping up- wards. . . ." Pall Mall Gazette.—“. . . Conveys excellent and practical hints on both subjects. . . . The directions given in this useful little book cannot be too care- fully followed, and we have found it full of new suggestions and time and labour- saving devices. ..." TIu People.—“. . . It is the kind of book the small holder wants, for it tells us how jam might be made in a kitchen as well as in the miniature jam factory ; moreover, it gives clear instructions as to bottling fruit.” The British Bee Journal.—“ . . . We can recommend this book, as it will appeal both to careful housewives and to those who wish to add to their incomes, at a very small cost, by embarking on an interesting and profitable industry." Fruit, Flower, and Vegetable Trades Journal.—“. . .This is a work which should be in the hands of every fruit grower wishing to safeguard against loss of his surplus crop, while it appeals with equal force to all retailers alive to the advantage of buying in the che.apest market to hold stock in sound condition for sale when prices rule high.” London: REBMAN LTD., 129 Shaftesbury Avenue, W.C.