FREDERICK WARNE & CO., Publishers, Bedford Street, Strand. COMPENDIUMS OF ENGLISH LITERATURE. In Four Vols., with a complete Index and Steel Illustrations, crown 8vo, price 205., cloth gilt; or half-calf extra, 355. HALF-HOURS with the BEST AUTHORS Remodelled by its Original Editor, Charles Knight, with Selec- ? tions from Authors, added, whose works have placed them amongst the “ Best Authors” since the publication of the First Edition. *** This book contains 320 Extracts of the best efforts of our great Standard Authors, whether they be Poets or Historians, Essayists or Divines, Travellers or Philosophers, arranged so as to form half an hour’s reading for every day of the year. The student finds a taste of every quality, and a specimen of every style. Should he grow weary of one author, he can turn to another ; and if inclined to be critical, he can weigh the merits of one writer against those of his fellow. It gives us a glimpse of the celebrities assembled within its portals. At a glance the student can obtain some idea of the subject. Such books are the true foundations of that knowledge which renders men celebrated and famous. In Two Vols., demy 8vo, price 10s., cloth ; 125. with gilt edges; or half-calf extra, 175. PEOPLE’S EDITION OF HALF-HOURS WITH THE BEST AUTHORS Selected and Edited by Charles Knight. With 16 Steel Portraits. In this Edition the Biographies are revised, the Pagination of the Volumes com- pleted, and the Serial nature of the Original Work entirely done away with; It now forms a Handsome Library Book. In Four Vols., crown 8vo, price 20s., cloth gilt; or half-calf extra, 355. HALF-HOURS OF ENGLISH HISTORY (Library Edition), with Steel Portraits, new style of binding. Volumes 1 and 2, from the Roman Period to the Death of Elizabeth, Selected and Edited, with Notes, by Charles Knight. Volumes 3 and 4, continuing the History from James to Victoria, by L. Valentine. Contains the Choicest Historical Extracts from upwards of Fifty Standard Authors, including Burke, Palgrave, Guizot, Sheridan Knowles, Thierry, H. Taylor, Rev. James White, Charles Knight, G. L. Craik, Landor, Hume, Keats, Hallam, Southey, Shakspeare, Froissart, Sir Walter Scott, Hall, Barante. Lord Bacon, Cavendish, Bishop Burnet, Rev. H. H. Milman, Wordsworth, Lord Macaulay; with a General Index. The articles are chiefly selected so as to afford a succession of graphic parts of English History, chronologically arranged, from the consideration that the portions of history upon which general readers delight to dwell are those which tell some story which is complete in itself, or furnish some illustration which has a separate as well as a general interest. In Two Vols., demy 8vo, price 10s., cloth ; 125. with gilt edges; or half-calf extra, 17s. PEOPLE’S EDITION OF HALF-HOURS OF ENGLISH HISTORY. From the Roman Period to Victoria. With Steel Portraits, new style of binding. Volume I., from the Roman Period to the Death of Elizabeth, Se- lected and Edited, with Notes, by Charles Knight. Volume II., containing the History from James to Victoria, by L. Valentine.