Fish and its Sauces. 37 own. sauce in a still simpler manner, of which, an illustration no less striking is at hand in the easiest, hut perhaps best mode of cooking a red mullet, viz., baking it, and securing the gravy of delicious flavour, which issues abundantly from the fish, chiefly from the liver, as its only sauce. matelote normande to be a simpler dish than it really is. ” I certainly intended the sentence in which it is named, and which is reprinted above without change, to signify my high respect for this finished dish, and if I have not made this clear, I hereby desire to do so. It was named to show that the principle of employing the juices of fish, and especially of shell-fish, as a sauce, finds its highest expression in the sole a la normande. Turning to my copy of Jules Gouffe's classical work, p. 621-2 of the original edition, Paris, 1867, I see that he remarks specially thereupon, “la recette que j’indique n’a pour base comme on a pu constater, que l’essence de poisson,” precisely warranting what I had stated. It is understood, of course, that these juices are com- bined with a good velouti to make the sauce, and that it may be garnished further to any extent, according to the luxury demanded by the guest, or for the entertainment. I have eaten sole cl la normande several times in Paris, but nowhere so good as in the South of France; probably in part because the fish and garnish were fresher there. Paris suffers greatly in the matter of fish by distance from the sea- board. London has a far fresher supply. No Frenchman knows what salmon is until he tastes, sometimes with much astonishment, a Severn or Christchurch fish, taken from the water in the morning, crimped on arrival in London in the afternoon, such as our lead- ing fishmongers can supply during all the spring and summer in time for dinner. It is one of the few things which we are able to offer our neighbours without fear of rivalry. Perhaps I ought to add, lest a doubt should exist in the mind of any one, that crimping thus done inflicts no pain whatever on the fish ; were it otherwise I would not sanction it for any consideration whatever. To cook crimped salmon in perfection, a slice should bo plunged into an ample saucepan of boiling salted water, and allowed to boil eight minutes only.