551 AiNlMAL CHEMISTRY. when the apparatus was cold than when warm, and hence concluded that the cutaneous evaporation in general was more considerable as the temperature was low er; not re- membering, that the more water the glass condensed, the more the capability of the included air to take up water was increased, when it was heated again in the neighbourhood of his warm hand. [But would not this happen equally in every case of cold weather ?] Thenard collected the matter perspired, on flannel waistcoals, and found that by solution in water and evaporation it afforded a sour, salt, syruplike extract, the uncombined acid of which he considered as vinegar, in consequence of the experiments which induced him to believe the lactic and acetic acids to be identical. The perspired matter is always acid, and reddens litmus paper strongly and decidedly. A few drops, which I dried in a watchglass, gave crystals of muriate of soda, together with distinct marks of the common acid extract of the se- cretions ; it left, upon a redissolution in water, a trace of insoluble matter, which, when heated, had the smell of burnt albumen. The nails are similar to the epidermis, except that their organization is more compact. Hair has been examined by Hatchett, Achard and Vauquelin. Vauquelin found that in the digester it afforded a thick fluid, which remained viscid when it was dried, leaving an insoluble oil, which has the colour of the hair, and is also separated when the hair is dissolved in a caustic alkali very much diluted, or in nitric acid. In the ashes of black hair, he found, besides the common salts of lime, oxyd of iron, and of manganese, to- gether with silica. Red hair, which contains more sulfur than black, affords less iron and manganese; white still less, with a perceptible quantity of magnesia. 14. Pelvic Jluids. Van Helmont is the first that under- took a chemical examination of the urine. Brandt and Kunkel obtained phosphorus from it; and Boyle discovered a process by which Hankwitz manufactured this substance