540 A SKETCH OF Young has shown in his essay on milk. It is unknown on what chemical substance these remarkable properties depend. It is however said that meat, for example, wrapped up iu a piece of fine linen, and kept exposed to the influence of other animal fluids, for example that of the axillae, or of the toes, is dissolved in the same manner as by the gastric fluid. The pancreatic fluid has never been chemically examined, but it appears to be analogous to the saliva. The bile, on the contrary, has been a very common subject of chemical investigation. Among the earlier chemists, Boerhaave, Bianchi, Verheyen, Hofmann, Drelincourt, Hartman, Barch- husen, Schroder, Marheer, and others, have taken great pains with it. Cadet was the first that performed a tolerably connected analysis of this fluid, and van Bochaut followed him in the same path. Since these, Maclurg, Fourcroy, Powell, and very lately Thenard, have pursued the investi- gation. All the earlier experiments agreed in making the bile consist of a kind of soap, composed of caustic soda, and a peculiar green bitter resin, which was precipitated by acids, mixed in any quantity with the bile, it was also sup- posed to contain a quantity of albumen, which could be separated by alcohol. Thenard showed also that bile con- tained, besides this resin, a peculiar bitter sweet extractive substance, to which he gave the name of picromel, and which contributed with the alkali to the solution of the resin. I was induced, by some apparent improbabilities in his con- clusions, to attempt anew the same investigation : the result of which was, that bile contains no resin: that it has the same proportion of alkali and of salts as the blood, and con- tains also a peculiar substance of a bitter and afterwards sweetish taste, which has the property, in common with the three principal parts of the blood, out of which it is formed in the liver, of being capable of uniting with the mineral acids, and forming a body difficult of solution in water. With a considerable excess of acid, it is completely preci-