536 A SKETCH OF attention on this subject, but he was not acquainted with several of the substances which have lately been discovered in the animal fluids; at the same time, some of the results of his observations are worthy of attention, in particular the globules which he found in pus and purulent mucus, which appeared to be in continual motion, and which were not easily decomposed; but his conjecture, that they consist of organized carbon, seems not to be the most happy. He found also that the thinnest expectorations were the most saline and the most deliquescent; but the latter property was probably the consequence of the two former. When he met in these experiments with the syrup like extract, which I have shown in the analysis of the blood, muscle, milk, and urine, to consist of muriate of soda, alkaline lac- tate, and peculiar animal substances, he considered it as an animal oxyd, which had the property, in common with acids, of neutralising a certain portion of alkali so perfectly, that it could no longer be discovered by any test. In the ashes of pus, when burnt, he found, besides the usual constituent parts, silica and oxyd of iron. 8. Digestion. The mucous membrane, which lines all the cavities concerned in digestion, has been fully investigated by Bichat. Its principal character is insolubility in boiling water; it affords no gelatin, as the serous membranes do, and it is destroyed by maceration in cold water, and by the operation of acids, the most easily of all animal substances, after the brain. The mucus, in which it is enveloped, though uniform in its appearance, is, however, very different in its chemical qualities, according to the nature of the substances with which it is destined to come into contact. Mucus is not properly a solution, but holds in suspension a solid, w hich has the property of expanding in water, into a thick semifluid mass, which it is not dissolved by the addition of more water, and which may be deprived of much of the water that it contains, by placing it on blotting paper. The