5^0 BLOOD AND PUS. iK> affected by the fluid in which they are suspended, since tl>cy may easily bespread thin on glass, and dried, without much change of their magnitude, at least in the direction of the surface to which they adhere : and they remain distinct as long as the access of moist air is completely excluded. When they have been kept for some time in water, and a little solution of salt is added, their form and structure, as Mr. Hewson has observed, are more easily examined, and appear to resemble those of a soft substance with a denser nucleus, not altogether unlike the crystalline lens together with the vitreous humour, as seen from beliind ; but with respect to a central particle detached within a vesicle, like a pea in a bladder,” I cannot doubt that Mr. Hewson was completely mistaken. I have never observed a prominence in the outline of the particles of the human blood: and on the other hand I am not perfectly confident that the appa- rent depression, which is exhibited in some lights, may not depend on some internal variation of the refractive density of the particle. It has commonly been asserted, that these coloured particles are readily soluble in water ; but this opi- nion appears to be completely erroneous, and to depend partly on their passing readily through filtering paper, a circumstance indeed already observed by Berzelius, (Djurk. II. p. iii,) and partly on the extraction of a great part of their colouring matter, together with which they lose much of their specific gravity, so that instead of subsiding, they are generally suspended in the fluid ; their presence may how- ever still be detected by a careful examination, and they seem in this state to have recovered in some measure their original form, which they had lost when first immersed in the water. When the water is sufficiently diluted, about three fourths as much rectified spirits may be added to it without destroying the appearance ; but after a few months it becomes indistinct, although neither in this case nor in that of complete putrefaction do the globules appear to be- come constituent parts of a homogeneous fluid. The exist- ence of solid particles, in fluids which at first sight appear