A SKETCH OF 5kS affords g€‘lafm : the iris, on the contrary, has all the chemi- cal characters of a muscle, and its component parts are the same, as well as its functions. The aqueous and vitreous humours resemble the fluids of serous membranes, but the aqueous seems to contain a smaller portion of albumen. According to Fourcroyand Chenevix, the crystalline lens consists of albumen and gelatin ; but, in reality, it contains neither of these substances. It is almost totally soluble in water, and the solution is coagulated by boiling ; but the coagulated mass does not resemble albu^ men; it is clotted and opaque, like the coloured matter of the blood: like this too it is easily soluble in acetic acid alter coagulation. The coagulated mass is snow white, and leaves, when burnt, a slight trace of ferruginous ashes. It is distinguished from the coloured matter by nothing but its colour. Is it not possible that the coloured matter may leave its proper colouring part in the pigmentum, and that the remainder may pass on and form the crystalline ? It may however be objected, that these parts receive their blood from different branches of the ophthalmic artery. I could not succeed in converting either the lens or the serum of the blood into the coloured matter, by the addition of the phosphate of iron in any form. This substance seems to be the limit between the fluids and the solids of the body: it contains little more than half its weight of water, and in this differs from all the secreted fluids, which are uniformly more aqueous than the blood. It gives, when analysed, a portion of acid extract, like that of the solid substances, from which the alkali has been carried out by their juices. Reil ob- served, that the crystalline lens assumed a fibrous appear- ance, when treated with dilute nitric acid, and thence in- ferred, that it was muscular : but although the interior structure of this substance is still too little known to enable us to explain the mechanical nature of its functions, yet it is sufficiently evident, from its solubility in water, and from its maimer of coagulating, that it cannot be of a muscular nature. [This argument is merely hypothetical, assuming,