REMARKS ON 582 6. Changeable colours. In examining some of the dust of the lycoperdon, I had put it with a drop of water on a glass, when I observed a purple tinge in the water, which I thought at first was a stain ex- tracted from the pow der ; but the water viewed separately was perfectly colourless, and the light transmitted directly through the water, when the globules were present, was of a yellowish green. After some consideration, I conjectured that this appearance of colour must be anah gous to that of the mixed plates which I had formerly observed, depending on the difference of refractive density of the water and the globules, (Nat. Phil. 1.470. PI. 30. F. 430. II. 633.) and by substituting fluids of different densities for water, I had the pleasure of finding my conjecture confirmed; for when the ■water was saturated with salt, the yellow green became nearly blue, and the purple redder or browner; and when olive oil was employed, the light directly transmitted was purple, and the oblique light greenish; in balsam of Tolu again, this purple became red, and the indirect light afforded a faint blue. In air too, I found that the powder appeared of a bright blue green by direct light, and of a purplish hue with a light a little oblique ; but when the obliquity became a lit- tle greater, the tint changed to a brownish yellow green, which continued afterwards unchanged ; this alteration may per- haps be derived from the admixture of a portion of light coming round the particles by a more circuitous route. By comparing the opposite effects of water and olive oil, of the refractive densities 1.336 and 1.379, the refractive density of the particles themselves may be calculated to be 1.6^, or somewhat less. Grey beaver wool seems of a purplish hue in direct, and greenish in oblique light, both in air and in olive oil; its grey colour seems to be derived from a mixture of these tints ; in olive oil, the rings of colours which it affords are consider- ably altered in their appearance, the reds becoming every where very faint. Lead precipitated from its acetate, or silver from its nitrate, by common water, affords a reddish direct and a bluish indirect light, and the same seems to be