26 APHORISMS Boeiliaave’s 33 classes are too numerous; Knaut’s 8 too few. 208. Genera which are allied to each other ought to stand together. [It is a problem, partly depending on mathematical con- siderations, to determine how a given number of things may be divided and described in the most compendious manner possible. We may estimate the degree of conciseness by the number of words required, whether substantives or adjectives, supposing the characters such as to allow the distribution to be varied at pleasure, and to admit of the shortest possible description. Thus the subdivision of 100 species by bisection only, in the manner here termed synoptic, would require in the whole 7 substantives and twice as many adjectives, for the distinction of the whole, that is, 21 words; thus, A a by (50) ; B c dy (25) ; C e j\ (13); D g hy (7); E i ky (4): F I niy (2); G n Oy (1); at least in the common course of technical language, although some of the substantives might often be spared. A sub- division by trisection would require 18 words; thus, AahCy (34); B d efy (12); C g h iy (4) \ D kly (4): E mriy (1); by quadrisection also 18; by quinquesection 17; and any greater number of divisions than this at each step would require a greater number of words to be employed; thus 6 would require 18, and 7, 20 words. So that the greatest conciseness is here obtained by three steps, 5X5X4. The calculation might easily be generalised if it were necessary, but it will be sufficient to extend it to the supposition of 1000 species, which might be the most com- pendiously expressed by five repeated quadrisections; if however the arrangement were restricted to 4 steps instead of 5, the number of divisions in each must become about 6 ; and the restriction would only require the introduction of two additional terms or characters, making 27 instead of 25. Such a limitation to four degrees of regular subdivision has been fouiid the most convenient for practical purposes, even when the number of things to be arranged is much greater; for instance in the 20 000 species belonging to the vegetable kingdom. In this case the most compendious arrangement