A SKETCH OF 552 for sale. Bellini, and especially Boerhaave, pursued the subject with great diligence. Marggraff, Pott, Haupt, Schlosser, Schockwitz, Bergman, Klaproth, and others em- ployed themselves in distinctly exhibiting the phosphates contained in it, and attempted to improve the methods of manufacturing phosphorus. The analysis of the younger Rouelle is still of great value. He discovered its proper characteristic constituent part, which he called a saponace- ous extract; he showed what salts were contained in it, and found that in graminivorous quadrupeds it does not contain phosphates, but carbonate of lime and benzoic acid. Some years afterwards, Scheele discovered in it phosphate of lime, dissolved in an excess of acid, uric acid, which was before unknown, and benzoic acid, which was most abundant in children. Cruikshank, who was employed by Rollo on the occasion of his investigation of diabetes, particularly de- scribed urea, showed its property of being precipitated by nitric acid, and described methods of ascertaining with pre- cision the relative proportions of the different component parts of the secretion. He found that in fever, it affords a precipitate with corrosive sublimate; in a higher fever, with alum ; and in a still higher, with nitric acid. In a general dropsy, he found that it contained a considerable quantity of albumen, and a smaller quantity in dyspepsia : but in an encysted dropsy the quantity of albumen was not increased. Three years afterwards, Fourcroy and Vauquelin published a still more elaborate and very excellent analysis: and Proust has since found, in this fluid, carbonic acid, carbo- nate of lime, and a peculiar resin, like that of the bile; all which however seem to be products of the operations by which they are obtained. Thenard has lately attempted to show that the uncombined acid is not the phosphoric, but the acetic; I have myself found that it/was a mixture of the lactic and the uric acids. In the bone earth, w hich is held in solution by this excess of acid, I found, as in the bones, some fluate of lime : and it appeared by comparison with the substances contained in the blood, that the kidneys must oxygenize a part of the blood’s remoter constituent