541 ANIMAL CHEMISTRY. pitated, and has all the characters of a resin, is soluble in alcohol, fusible, and capable of forming a plaster with oxyd of lead. A smaller quantity of acid, on the contrary, aflbrds a more soluble combination : and the resin, precipitated by the sulfuric acid, may, by digestion for instance with car- bonate of barita, which takes away its acid, be restored to its former properties, so as to afford a solution exactly like bile. This substance agrees also with the albumen and fibrin of the blood in being incapable of precipitation by the acetic acid; [like fibrin too, it affords an adipocere with ether, and is not precipitated by tannin. Afh. III. 8.] In different animals, and in the same species under different circumstances, its capability of forming compounds of dif- ficult solution with acids is different; and to judge from the observations which I have made, it appears that a long con- tinuance in the gallbladder increases this tendency to form resin. All my predecessors have considered the bile as con- taining some albumen ; but since the substance, which in this case is denominated albumen, is precipitated by acetic acid, and is not redissolved by a fresh addition of the acid, it must necessarily be something different from albumen. By an examination of mucus from different parts, I have been enabled to show, that the substance in question is nothing else than a part of the mucus of the gallbladder, which is dissolved in the bile, and makes it, to use a medical term, more involved. It is found dissolved in the bile in a very small proportion, so that the bile, which is scarcely fluid, gives no more considerable deposit after boiling, than that which is very thin. The experiments of Stevens, Reaumur and Spallanzani have proved that digestion is a true solution of food by the gastric fluid. Eaglesfield Smith found that, in frogs, diges- tion is interrupted when the gall duct is tied, and proceeds again rapidly when the ligature is removed : but in the mammalia it is certain that the chyme is often rejected from the stomach, perfectly formed, without any admixture of