A SKETCH OF 544 ing. The nature and composition of bone earth was dis- covered by J. G.Gahn, whom we have still the happiness to number among the members of the Royal Academy of Sciences ; the discovery was first mentioned by Scheele, but not as his own. Long after this, Fourcroy demonstrated that the bones of graminivorous animals contained phosphate of magnesia, which he could not find in human bone; and lastly Morichini discovered the fluate of lime, both in ivory and in the enamel of the teeth. I have also detected in human bone, by a very careful analysis, both fluate of lime and phosphate of magnesia, and shown that the sulfate of lime, which is found in it after burning, does not exist during life. The cartilaginous part I found about of the whole, something less in the teeth, and very little in the enamel. Fourcroy and Vauquelin had found in the enamel 27 per cent, of combustible matter, and Pepys only 16 : I found, on the contrary, only 2 per cent: nor could I dis- cover any such differences between the bones of oxen and of men, as Merat Guillot attributes to them. The cartilage is so incorporated with the bone earth, as to make a mass which presents a very strong mechanical combination, and a chemical union of such force, as to resist, in the absence of water, any tendency to decay for many centuries. Papin’s proposal for making soup of bones, which was rejected by Charles the second on account of a pleasantry of one of his courtiers, was revived in later times by Proust; and some have even asserted that bones contain more nourishment than an equal weight of meat; but this opinion is by no means correct. The shells of some of the testacea have been examined by Hatchett, who found in them the peculiar animal matter, which he has not very correctly described, with carbonate and phosphate of lime. The bones of the mammalia con- sisting chiefly of phosphate of lime, with but little carbonate, these shells on the contrary consist of the carbonate, with a few parts in 100 of the phosphate.