ANIMAL CHEMISTRY. 531 iluence on the change of the blood in the lungs, but only on the respiration, which becomes gradually more and more difficult, whence the blood grows dark in the arteries, so that the animal expires, after several hours, with venous blood in the arteries, from the cessation of respiration. Of the difference of the blood at different periods of life, and in different diseases, vre know little or nothing. It has been supposed, that the blood of the foetus undergoes, in the placenta, a change similar to that which takes place in the lungs of the adult, and that it returns of a scarlet colour through the veins of the funis: but credible authors assure us, that in the foetus the eye cannot distinguish the venous blood from the arterial. The principal object of the process, which is carried on in the lungs, appears to be the preserva- tion of temperature ; while the foetus borrows its tempera- ture from the surrounding medium, and consequently has no particular occasion for a supply of heat, which could only have the effect of raising its temperature much above the common standard of ordinary animal heat. This circum- stance therefore excludes the possibility of a change of the colouring matter in the foetal circulation, although there are many reasons for supposing the blood’s passage through the placenta to answer some other very important purposes. Fourcroy has made some remarks on the foetal blood, but they seem to have been the results of accidental observation, and not of direct experiment. Deyeux and Parmentier were unable to distinguish any material difference, between the blood of healthy and of diseased persons. Bordeu also en- tered into some similar investigations; and Dupuytren, Thenard and Nicolas have shown, that the blood of diabetic patients does not contain the least trace of the sugar, which is so abundant in the urine. With respect to the respiration of other classes of animals, our knowledge is confined within narrow limits. Birds are very sensible to foreign admixtures in the air, and in an 2 M 2