584 REMARKS ON property similar to tliat of the lignum nephriticum (Murr. app. med.) The particles of the blood do not derive their colour from any of the causes which have been mentioned since it may be extracted from them in a clear solution. When I attempted to explain the colours of mixed plates, which I had produced by partially moistening two lenses very slightly convex, I observed that the reflection of the light from the internal surface of a denser medium must be supposed to invert its properties with respect to the pro- duction of colours by interference, as is naturally to be sup- posed on the principles of the undulatory theory. But w hen the obliquity is so considerable, it is not very easy to assign a reason for this inversion ; and the experiments, which I have now mentioned, make it necessary to assume a law , which I cannot explain, that every very oblique reflection inverts the properties of light with respect to interference. This conclusion confirms the assertion of Newton, that a dark space, bordered by light, will appe'ar in the centre of a portion of light transmitted between the edges of two knives placed very near each other, and the opinion of Mr. Jordan, that the augmentation of a shadow by diffraction is to be considered as the first dark space belonging to the coloured fringes. I had obtained a different result in an ex- periment similar to Newton’s, because I was not aware of the necessity of employing very sharp edges ; for when the edges are blunt, the light is reflected from the one to the other in such a manner, as wholly to destroy the appearance of a central dark space ; but in any case this source of error may be avoided, by causing one of the edges to advance a very little before the plane of the other, so that half of the fringes may disappear. It is however necessary to suppose this inversion confined to cases of extremely oblique reflec- tion, for when the deviation of tlie light from a rectilinear path becomes a little more considerable, its effects are no longer perceptible j the second and third fringes scarcely ever requiring any material corrections of the calculations from which it is excluded. The same inversion must also be attributed to the light bent by diffraction round the re-