5S8 A SKETCH OF least in some cases, to be merely mechanical, the secretion continuing, while the absorbents have been obstructed by previous inflammation. Af h. III. 22.] According to some of my experiments, this fluid consists of serum, which has lost the principal part of its albumen, but has still so much left, that it affords a little coagulum when boiled : when it is evaporated, crystals of common salt are deposited, and among them we find the usual brown extract, containing alkali, alkaline lactate, and the extractive substances which commonly accompany it. The saliva, the gastric fluid, the bile, and the pancreatic fluid, contribute also to digestion, Fourcroy and Vaquelin, and more lately Bostock, have analysed the saliva. I have also examined it myself, and have found it one of the most aqueous fluids of the whole body. It holds in suspension a white slimy substance, which is easily separated by dissolv- ing the saliva in water, and which is soluble in alkalis, but not in acids. I am disposed to consider it, at least in part, as derived from the mucous membrane of the salivary ducts, and the inside of the mouth. The other part of the saliva contains, besides the salts commonly afforded by serum, a peculiar substance, remarkable for not being coagulable by boiling, by tannin, or sugar of lead ; it affords with water a mucilaginous, light, frothy solution, although the capability of the saliva to be drawn out into threads belongs only to the mucus mixed with it. [It is precipitated by alcohol; when once dried, it is perfectly soluble in water, and is not separated by vegetable or mineral acids. Afh. III. 8.] It has been supposed that the viscidity of the saliva is intended for the admixture of small bubbles of air with the food dur- ing mastication : but this opinion is probably erroneous, and it seems, in reality, to be principally intended for the mecha- nical purpose of forming the food into coherent masses fit for swallowing; how far it may be concerned in the ulterior processes of digestion, is wholly uncertain. A part of it, which stagnates about the teeth, is thickened, becomes coloured, and forms what we call tartar. I have found this