ANIMAL chemistry. 545 The marrow resembles other animal oils ; and the changes produced in it, when boiled in the bone, depend only on the fluids contained in the vessels of the medullary mem- brane, which it loses when it is melted out of the cells. Cartilage in general resembles the cartilaginous part of bones; when it is converted into gelatin by boiling, the small vessels and nerves remain undissolved. The sinovia has been examined by Margueron : it appears to be serum, retaining its fibrin, and little altered ; it forms a colourless coagulum, and the remainder has the appearance and properties of serum. The fibrin is not precisely iden- tical with that of the blood, though it is difficult to judge from the analysis in what it differs from it. Fourcroy seems to conjecture, that it contains uric acid, an opinion for which there appears to be no other reason, than that the chalk- stones, formed in gout, which consist of urate of soda, are sometimes deposited in the joints, and impede their motion. 10. Muscles, The muscles have been examined by Geof- frey, with a view of determining the quantity of nourish- ment they afford. Thouvenel obtained from them, besides their peculiar fibres, an extract, soluble both in water and alchol. I have found that muscular flesh contains about | of its weight of fluids, in which there is an uncombined acid ; and that the extract, which Thouvenel has described, is the same acid syrup like mass, which is found in milk and in urine, and which consists of lactic acid, lactate of potass, muriate of soda, and the extractive substance which accom- panies these salts. I have endeavoured to show, that this extract is not a component part of muscle, but that it belongs to the absorbents, and that it is principally derived from the parts which are worn out, which have partly been taken up by the absorbents, and were partly ready to be taken up at the instant of death. This extract, and the phosphate of soda, are more abundant in the muscular juices