533 AMIMAL CHEMISTRY. mained doubtful at that time, from the imperfect state of chemical knowledge. 4. Abso?'ption. The substance of the lymphatic vessels has not been particularly analysed : and their contents have only been examined by Emmert and Reuss, who found them to agree very much with serum, and when viewed with a microscope, to have the appearance of a homogeneous fluid. But after some time, this lymph coagulates into a mass which resembles the fibrin of the blood; whence it follows, that this substance must have been transmitted from the blood by the capillary arteries, and that the fibrin must have been in perfect solution in its original state. An im- portant circumstance, which has not been considered in the investigation of the lymph, is the presence of the remains of the worn out and useless parts, which have been absorbed by the lymphatics, and can only be removed by their means. The analysis of the fluids contained in the muscular parts, and that of urine give me reason to suppose, that most of the substances, which compose the body, are changed by this process into lactic acid, phosphoric acid, and the two sub- stances soluble in water and in alcohol, which accompany the lactates in the animal fluids, and afford the syrup like extract, which is obtained in their analysis. If this is the case, the fluids contained in the lymphatics, after the co- agulation of the albumen by boiling, and the evaporation of the liquid, must leave a much greater proportion of this syrup like extract, than serum. 5. Secretion in general. The secreted and excreted fluids, formed by the remaining parts of the blood, have all their different characteristic properties, at the same time that they retain some marks of their common origin from albumen and fibrin. The fluids, which hold these charac- teristic substances in solution, contain the salts of the blood, and generally also its alkali, in the same quantity as the blood itself. Some secreted fluids are equally concentrated