A SKETCH OF atmosphere which is fatal to a bird, a mouse can live with- out apparent inconvenience. The respiration of fishes has been somewhat more fully investigated. Fishes have their blood oxygenized in their gills by coming in contact with the uncombined oxygen, which is contained in water, to the amount of about of its volume. Fishes can however live for some days in water exhausted of air, but at last they die in.it, without exhibiting any tendency to decompose it by their respiration. The airbladder has sometimes been considered as assisting in the functions of the gills ; but this organ seems to be in reality appropriated to the office of regulating the specific gravity of the animal, so as to enable it without difficulty to remain at whatever depth below the surface it finds most convenient. In fresh water fishes, this bladder contains, according to Erman, nitrogen mixed with a variable proportion of oxygen, which however never amounts to the quantity contained in atmospheric air. In sea fish, on the contrary, Biot found that it contained oxygen in a greater proportion, as the depth at which they were found was greater, so that, at the depth of 1100 yards, it contained from to ^ of oxygen. This air is so com- pressed, that when the fish is drawn out of the water, its ex- pansion forces the bladder through its mouth. In oue kind of fish, the cobitis fossilis, Erman found a double kind of respiration ; in water containing air, the fish respired as usual by its gills: but if the water was deprived of its oxygen, the fish rose out of the water, swallowed a portion of air, which changed the colour of the bloodvessels to a bright red, as it passed through the intestines, and was dis- charged when deprived of its oxygen. The respiration of insects has been examined with great care by Haussman; he found that they all absorbed oxygen and gave out car- bonic acid. He also examined the respiration of some worms, and found that these also changed the oxygen into carbonic acid. Spallanzani had found the same long before ; but he also thought he observed, that many of the mollusca absorbed nitrogen, a circumstance which necessarily re-