ANIMAT, ClIEMISTITY. 549 that the chemical properties of all muscles must be alike, which certainly cannot be proved : on the other hand, the arguments in favour of a spontaneous change of form in the lens, by its own powers, are direct, and, if I am not mis- taken, fully demonstrative. The author has elsewhere ob- served, that the three principal parts of the blood so nearly resemble each other, that they may be considered as modi- fications of the same substance, and we are not warranted in confining the property of muscularity within such narrow limits, as to attribute it to substances analogous to one of them exclusively. Y.] The tears have been examined by Fourcroy and Vauque- lin ; they resemble the humours of the eye ; except that, instead of albumen, they hold in solution a particular sub- stance, which is not coagulated by boiling, nor by acids, but which, by slow evaporation in the open air, is converted into an insoluble mucus, like that of the nostrils. Hence it seems to follow, that the nasal mucus also must be fluid when it is first secreted, and gradually acquire its consistency by ex- posure to the air in respiration ; so that it must be essentially different from the mucus of parts not exposed to the air; [which is also distinguished by not recovering its viscidity when dried and again moistened. Afh. III. 8.] 12. Ear. The cerumen has been examined by Vauquelin. It is more or less dry, and consists of a peculiar fatty sub- sance, forming a sort of emulsion with albuminous matter. 13. Skm. The skin, by long boiling, may be changed into gelatin or glue, which is the better and more adhesive as the skin is more difficultly dissolved. The quality of leather may differ both according to the kind of skin, and to the vegetable substances employed in tanning. For the prepara- tory operation of steeping the leather, weak alkalis are better thar> > water, and acids, especially vegetable acids, better than alkalis : and a very small quantity of acid may still have a very decided effect. The most important point