BLOOD AND PUS. 583 true of smoke, and of other bodies consisting of very miuute particles : but when the indirect light is very powerful, smoke sometimes appears reddish in it, as might be expected from a collection of very small opaque instead of transparent particles. Mr. Delaval has observed that an infusion of sap green appears of a bright red by transmitted light, and the case seems perfectly analogous to that of the dust of the lycoper- don : the green becoming somewhat yellower, when the gum, with which colouring particles are mixed, is diluted with water. But this is not the universal cause of a difference of colours exhibited by pigments in different lights ; the car- thamus, or pink dye commonly sold for domestic use, affords an unequivocal instance of a substance exhibiting colours analogous to those of thin plates, which have been adduced by Newton, in illustration of the colours of natural bodies ; the reflected light being undeniably of a yellow green, while the transmitted light is of a bright pink colour. Here the light regularly reflected from the surface only, especially when dry, gives the colour opposite to that of the trans- mitted light; all the light passing through the fluid, even indirectly, giving a pink colour. But the infusion of the lignum nephriticum seems to hold a middle place between this substance and those which have been mentioned before ; the dry extract is of a brownish yellow only; an infusion, not too strong, gives the same colour, verging to orange, by direct transmitted light, and a bright blue by light reflected, or obliquely dispersed within the infusion, or at its surface. The solution of the carthamus affords no green reflection from its surface, and varies in its hue, in different lights, only from crimson to scarlet. The tinging particles of the lignum nephriticum, like those of the precipitated lead and silver, are, in all probability, extremely minute, since the co- lour is but little changed by changing the density of the fluid. It often happens that a blue colour, precisely like that of this infusion, is reflected by green glass bottles, which, when seen by transmitted light, exhibit only a reddish brown colour. The inner bark of the ash is also said to have a