59G AN ESSAT According to this comparison, it appears that the mean di- rection of the wind in Devonshire is somewhat more westerly than in London ; and that the degree, in which such westerly winds predominate, is more than twice as great as in London: or, if we convert the measure into days, that the predomin- ance amounted, in 1794, to 68 days for London, of a wind nearly W. S. W. and to 170 days for Dawlish, of a wind a little to the South of West, or W. | S. The variations of the climate of the same place, with re- spect to mean temperature, are easily collected from the usual meteorological computations. Dr. Heberden has very successfully combated the common opinion respecting the superior salubrity of cold winters; it appears however that the winter, which he particularly observed, was more variable, as well as colder, than usual. Mr. Kirwan has attempted to account for the greater frequency of colds, which he sup- poses to occur in spring and in autumn, by the greater vari- ability of the temperature at those seasons; but both the fact and the explanation are very questionable; for in reality the variations of temperature, if estimated by the total range of the thermometer within the 24 hours, are almost uniformly greatest in the hottest weather. In London, the greatest variations of successive days at the same hours in the morning are greatest in winter; in the afternoon, in summer; and although the latter are a little greater in April than in some of the succeeding months, the difference is by no means con- siderable. Of the empirical evidence, which may be collected, re- specting the medical effects of different climates, the most authentic is perhaps that which is derived from well regulated bills of mortality ; since these documents ought to afford us a tolerable criterion of the general healthiness or unhealthi- ness of a place, from the proportion between the annual deaths and the population, and at the same time a pretty correct determination of the degrees in which different