OF COMBINATIONS. 565 of oxygen contained in the bases are generally equal, but sometimes one portion is a multiple of the other. They are [probably] equal in the triple compounds of ammonia with magnesia, manganese, zinc, and copper: in alum, the oxy- gen of the alumina is triple that of the potass, while that of the sulfuric acid is 12 times as much, and that of the water of crystallization 24. In the subsulfate of copper and ammonia,- the water of crystallization and the oxyd of copper contain equal quantities of oxygen, the ammonia, [admitting that it contains oxygen,] twice as much, and the sulfuric acid three times. In the prismatic crystals of oxalate of ammonia and copper, (p- 640.) the water contains four times as much oxygen as either of the bases, and one half of it evaporates when the crystals are exposed to the air. 2. The necessity of considering the oxygen of the sub- stance, in which it is least abundant, as the unit, appears from the example of the crystallized sulfate of soda, in which the oxygen of the acid is to that of the water in the com- plicated proportion of 3 to 10, while the oxygen of the base is represented by 1, of which each of the other portions is a multiple. C. 1. In the case of the union of several metallic oxyds, whether natural or artificial, it is probable that the same general laws prevail, but we have not at present a sufficient number of correct analyses of minerals to establish this fact with certainty. 2. Where however minerals are crystallized together, it may happen either that they are combined by mutual affini- ties, or simply mixed in irregular and variable proportions. Thus when a solution of arseniate of lead in nitric acid is evaporated, the salt, which is obtained, contains arseniate and nitrate of lead, mixed in various proportions, and capable of being separated by the action of water only, which dis- solves the nitrate, and leaves the arseniate undissolved. There is also a similar mixture of the crystals of the muriates of ammonia and of iron. 5. When Iwo simple or apparently sinipl eombuslible