537 ANIMAL CHEMISTRY. * fluid which pervades mucus is no other than serum, deprived of the greatest part of its albumen. The peculiar substance, which forms the mucus of the nostrils, is soluble both in acids and alkalis, but somewhat more slowly in the latter, while that of the gall bladder, on the contrary, is very easily so- luble in alkalis, but is completely precipitated by acids; so that it is separated from the bile, which holds it in solution, by the acids contained in the chyme, when the bile is de- composed in the process of digestion. If this mucus pos- sessed the properties of that of the nostrils and trachea, it would remain mixed with the solution of the chyle, and produce less beneficial effects in the animal economy. Many authors mention an animal mucus, distinct from that of the membranes, which is supposed to be found in the fluids. In the many careful analyses which I have had oc- casion to make, I have never been able to find any substance to which this name could be applied, or which agreed suffi- ciently with the characters of the substances so denominated by Hatchett, Bostock, Jordan, and others. These chemists seem to have employed the term mucus as a general name for substances which could not be accurately determined. The celebrated Fourcroy has given us an essay on mucus, in the sense in which I here employ the term ; but his reason- ings, supported by no experiments, are calculated only to mislead the inexperienced : he generalises the use of the de- nomination so far, as to include in it cuticle, nails, silk, and many other heterogeneous substances, all which he considers as hardened mucus. The mucous membrane of the intestines is surrounded by a dense cellular and a muscular membrane, agreeing in their nature with the cellular membrane and the muscle of other parts. These are covered by the peritonaeum, a serous membrane, which, according to some coarse experiments, probably agrees in its constitution with cellular membrane. The fluids of such membranes are too scanty to be examined, except in dropsy, but we have every reason to believe that they remain unaltered by this disease, [which appears, at