BLOOD AND PUS. 575 2. Description of the Brio meter. The rings of colours, which are here employed to discover the existence of a number of equal particles, may also be employed for measuring the comparative and the real dimen- sions of these particles, or of any pulverised or fibrous sub- stances which are suflaciently uniform in their diameters. Immediately about the luminous object, we see a light area, terminating in a reddish dark margin, then a ring of bluish green, and without it a ring of red: and the alternations of green and red are often repeated several times, where the particles or fibres are sufficiently uniform. I observed some years ago that these rings were the larger as the particles or fibres affording them were smaller, but that they were always of the same magnitude for the same particles. It is there- fore only necessary to measure the angular magnitude of these rings, or of any one of them, in order to identify the size of the particles which afford them ; and having once established a scale, from an examination of a sufficient number of sub- stances of known dimensions, we may thus determine the actual magnitude of any other substances which exhibit the colours. The limit between the first green ring, and the red which surrounds it, affords the best standard of compa- rison, and its angular distance may be identified, by pro- jecting the rings on a dark surface, pierced with a circle of very minute holes, which is made to coincide with the limit, by properly adjusting the distance of the dark substance, and then this distance, measured in semidiameters of the circle of points, gives the corresponding number of the com- parative scale. Such an instrument I have called an Eriom- eter, from its utility in measuring the fibres of wool, and I have given directions for making it, to [Mr. Robinson in Devon- shire Street.] The luminous point is afforded by a perforation of a brass plate, which is surrounded by the circle of minute holes; the substance to be examined is fixed on some wires, which are carriefl by a slider, the plate being held before an Argand lamp, or before two or three candles placed in a line ; the slider is drawn out to such a distance as to exhibit the required coincidence, and the index then shows the