5?5 ANIMAL CHEMISTRY. cartilage is boiled in water ; I have shown that there is no gelatin whatever in the living body, and that de Ilaen and his followers have taken for gelatin a partial coagulation of the last portion of albumen, which remains in the blood. The sulfur, which is exhibited when blood is heated in a silver vessel, is derived from the decomposition of the albumen by the uncombined alkali, with the assistance of the heat. Deyeux and Parmentier believed that the red colour of the blood was derived from the solution of iron in its uncombined alkali. Fourcroy and Vauquelin attempted to show, that it depended on the solution of the subphos- phate of iron in albumen. They found that albumen or serum, which was shaken with this salt of iron, while still moist, dissolved it, and derived from it a deep red colour, which was heightened by caustic alkali. According to these experiments, it appeared that the colouring of chyle, exposed to the air, depended on the change of the neutral phosphate of the oxydiole or protoxyd, into the subphosphate of the oxyd. I have repeated these experiments with all possible care, and with the highest respect for the authority of these very celebrated chemists; and my results have been so opposite to theirs, that I cannot help concluding that they are mistaken, and that in fact we know as little of the mode of existence of iron in the colouring matter of the blood, as we did when iron was first discovered in it. The co- loured particles, long since described by Leeuwenhoek and Hartsoeker, do not consist of albumen, although they much resemble it. I have shown that metallic oxyds, especially those of iron, are partly soluble in the serum, and change its colour more or less, but that none of them gives the true colour of blood, and that the serum containing iron is totally destitute of the proper characters of the coloured matter. Since none of the most delicate tests for iron detect its pre- sence in the coloured matter of the blood, I have thought myself authorised to conclude, that it could not be in the form of a salt: and since neither iron, nor the earthy phos- phates, so abundant in the ashes of the blood, can be ex- tracted from its charcoal by means of the strongest acids, it