A SKETCH OF 524 and Lavoisier, many of the labours of these chemists have been particularly devoted to subjects more intimately con- nected with it. Among those who have directed their at- tention to the nervous system, we cannot omit to mention the name of Galvani: the battery of nerve and muscle, con- structed by Bunzen, seems not to have been a very fortunate illustration of the nervous action. Home and Reil have also advanced some speculations not very fully supported by facts. The brain has been examined by Thouret, Fourcroy, and Jourdan; and Bichat has investigated the structure of the membranes which accompany the nerves, by dissolving out the medullary matter by means of caustic alkali, 2. Blood. The most correct accounts of the blood and its properties have been given by Hales, Lemery, Menghini, Hofmann, Langrish, Cheyne, Schwencke, Gaubius, Rouelle junior, Hewson, Bucquet, Deyeux and Parmentier, in their prize dissertation, and lastly by Fourcroy and Vauquelin. (P. 12). I have shown that the fibrin, colouring matter and albumen, with mineral acids in excess, enter into pecu- liar combinations of difficult solubility, which, when the superfluons acids are washed off, are soluble in water ; that these substances are easily dissolved by the acetic and phos- phoric acids, and that these acids prevent the coagulation of blood by heat; that when fibrin is boiled with water, a small portion of it is dissolved, and the remainder is shriv- elled, and becomes insoluble in vinegar; that all the three substances, by the operation of alcohol and ether, are partly changed into peculiar fatty matters, with a pungent smell, different according to the medium employed. I have found ill the blood the lactate of potass, and some peculiar sub- stances, which accompany this salt in all the fluids of the body, and which, as I have endeavoured to show, appear in the blood as a step towards their removal from the body, in order to be excreted with other unnecessary substances. It has been generally believed, since the time of de Haen, that the blood contains gelatin, such as is obtained when bone or