ON PALPITATION. 639 tation first occurred about two years before her admission, while she was scouring a floor: it subsided in some degree, but returned several times at intervals of about six weeks : and in January, she had a very severe attack: after this time, she had a violent pain about the umbilicus ; the bowels were confined, and the excretions dark coloured. This affection of the abdomen was relieved by fomentations and the warm bath; but her breathing became more laborious; and she could not lie in a horizontal position for many weeks. In March, she had dropsical swellings of the legs and ab- domen, which were removed three times in succession, by means of some diuretic medicines prescribed by Dr. Clarke ; after this, the pain was greatly abated, and she was able, in May, to resume her usual employments. During the attacks of the pain, and in the presence of the abdominal swelling, she had always been of a yellow colour; her lips and nails purple: but she had never perceived any pain in the right shoulder. She had lived temperately, having found, that wine, even in a moderate quantity, increased her complaints. At the time of her admission, a palpitation was perceptible in the heart, and on the right side of the abdomen, a little above the umbilicus : from this point, she seemed to feel something running up in a right line to the neck; and a considerable pulsation was observable on the right side of the neck: her pulse was at 70, and very irregular : she had no cough, nor faintness, nor did she start in going to sleep : she could lie in a horizontal position, but not on the left side: she was thirsty and without appetite; the bowels were confined. She was directed to take, every other morn- ing, half an ounce of crystals of tartar, and five grains of jalap, made into an electuary with oxymel of squills, and some tonic draughts, containing bark and steel, at inter- mediate times. In a few days, she complained of cough, which was relieved by a grain of ipecacuan, and three of extract of hemlock, taken three times a day, with some camphorated mixture, digitalis, nitre, and opium. On the 16th, she returned to a stomachic tonic, and took daily eight