547 ANIMAL CHEMISTRY. The muscular fibres are soluble, like fibrin, by digestion in vinegar, leaving a considerable portion of cellular mem- brane, with the vessels and nerves, undissolved ; like fibrin too they become insoluble in vinegar by being boiled : and the water, in which they are boiled, extracts from them a substance not coagulable, which has a strong and dgreeable taste of meat : which, together with the dissolved cellular membrane, and the uncoagulable parts of the juices of the muscle,,^ makes what we call soup; the strength and flavour of soup does not therefore depend on the gelatin obtained from the cellular membrane only, but also on a solution of a part of the muscular fibres, which give it their flavour. The diflference between tasteless bone soup and meat soup was formerly attributed to the extractive matter contained in the meat; but, in fact, meat altogether freed from its juices affords a well flavoured and nourishing, though colour- less, soup. On the contraction of muscles, some very interesting ex- periments have been made by Carlisle, who has endeavoured to show, that their weight and volume are increased during their action. Tendons and aponeuroses resemble, in their chemical properties, cartilage and cellular membrane, afford- ing gelatin when boiled, the vessels only remaining un- dissolved. 11. E^e. The humours of the eye have been examined by Chenevix, and I have also had an opportunity of analysing both these and the coats of that organ. The sclerotica is similar in its composition to tendon ; the choroid also affords gelatin, while its numerous vessels and the pigmentum nig- rum remained undissolved by boiling. The pigmentum is insoluble in acids, but is dissolved by caustic alkali, and precipitated by acids, of a colour somewhat paler. It burns like a vegetable substance, and leaves the same ferruginous ashes as the coloured matter of the blood, whence it is prob- ably formed, while the colourless parts are transmitted by the vessels to the interior parts of the eye. The cornea also 2 N 2