553 ANIMAL C HEM 1ST II Y. parts, and produce several acids, alkalis, and earths, which either did not previously exist in the blood, or were con- tained in it much less abundantly. I found, for example, the sulfuric and phosphoric acids in considerable quantity, while the blood does not contain a perceptible trace of the former, and a very small portion of the latter : the earthy and alkaline salts are also far more abundant than in the blood. [This secretion contains some ammoniacal salts, while the muriates of potass and soda are almost the only salts that are found in any other of the animal fluids. Afh. III. 12.] The dissimilar precipitates, which are deposited in cool- ing, I found to be either the mucus of the bladder alone, which is always present, either in suspension or in solution, or a combination of this mucus with the uric acid, but with- out any of the eaithy phosphates. I have endeavoured to show the necessity of distinguishing between the mechanical deposition of mucus, depending on a catarrhus vesicae, and tlie separation of bone earth, for want of a sufficient excess of acid for its solution. The urea, which had been before described, I found to be a combination of the true urea, with several deliquescent substances, from which I had the good fortune to separate it. The true urea is colourless, and shoots into very distinct prismatic crystals, like those of nitre. [Urea unites and forms triple combinations with most of the salts ; it is precipitated in a crystalline form by diluted nitric acid, but is converted by the concentrated ° acid chiefly into nitrate of ammonia. Afh. III. 9.] The true urea is much enveloped in the lactic acid, lactate of am- monia, and the animal substance so often mentioned, which always accompanies this acid and its salts, and which is probably always formed at the same time with them. This substance has a brownish yellow colour, and gives, together with the acid and its salts, the peculiar colour to the secre- tion : it is easily soluble both in alcohol and in water, and it is this substance, and not albumen, as was formesly main- tained, which is precipitated by tannin. The substance,