97 ORGANS OF SENSIZ. Mr. Cavendisli, Mr. Home, Mr. Brodie, and Dr. Young; after the most patient examination, it appeared that the imperfect eye, from which the crystalline lens had been extracted, possessed no power whatever of altering its focus, while the same tests exhibited a very considerable change in the focal distance of the perfect eye. Y. SENSATIONS. Transmission.) The “nature of sensations,” as transmitted by the nerves, may be “ illustrated by the example of sound, the essence of which is undeniably motion: the sensation of light” aljo manifestly originates in motion, and, according to the opinion of Newton, as well as upon the principles of those who adopt the theory of Huygens, this motion, as it affects the retina, is decidedly vibratory. Hence w e may deduce a “probable inference w ith respect to other sensations : touch” being a simple impression of motion or pressure,” of a certain intensity, extent, and duration; and “ smell and taste” which seem to differ only in the nerves which they affect, being both dependent on certain “ minute vibrations, which must demonstrably exist in the particles of bodies, considered as infinitely elastic :” there being many reasons to believe that the constituent particles of solid bodies are held in equilibrium by certain forces, without actually touching each other, and all independent elastic bodies being as necessarily thrown into vibration, by any force which acts on them, as a bell is made to sound w^ien it is struck. Newton has supposed the vibrations, which he attributes to the retina, to be transmitted by the nerves in a manner resembling the passage of light through a transparent body, w hich may be illustrated by the transmission of sound through a long pipe containing air or water; and there is no mechanical objection whatever to such an ex- planation, w hich exhibits an “ analogy with the transmission of electricity,” if not an “ identity.” Syllabus of a course of medical lectures. But even granting the truth of this u