562 ON THE LAWS / Rpm. 1. ITencp it is pasy to explain the observations of Bergman, of tlie precipitation of metallic salts by other metals, without the disengagement of hydrogen, and the law of Wenzel, of the neutrality of all compounds obtained from other neutral salts by double elective attractions. Rem. 2. According to my latest experiments, 100 parts of the different acids require, for their saturation, as much of any base as contains the quantity of oxygen expressed by the annexed numbers. Sulfuric, 19.96. Sulfurous, 24.9. Phosphoric, 27.5. Muriatic, 29.454. Nitric, 14.65. Nitrous, 21.03. Arsenic, 16.98. Oxalic, 21.2. Acetic, 15.8. Tar- taric, 11.79. Citric, 14.3. In supersalts, the oxygen of the acid is twice, or some- times even four times, as much as in the corresponding neu- tral salts. Thus, in the supersulfate of potass, the quantity of the acid is doubled. In subsalts, the oxygen of the acid is sometimes a multiple of that of the base, sometimes equal to it, and sometimes a submultiple : triple, for instance, in the subnitrate of lead, double in the subnitrite, equal in the subsulfates of copper and of bismuth, and only half in the subsulfate of iron and the submuriate of lead. Rem. The quantity of the base contained in a subsalt must be such a multiple of that which is contained in the neutral salt, that the proportion of the oxygen may accord with this law; for instance, in a subsulfate, the quantity of the base cannot be twice, nor four times, as great as in the sulfate; since the oxygen in the acid would then become or I as much as in the base, Avhich is contrary to the general law: and in fact the subsulfates contain either a triple or a sextuple proportion of the base. B. Water, in its combinations with acids, may be consi- dered as supplying the place of a base, and that of an acid in its combinations with alkalis. Most of the acids are in- capable of existing in a state of perfect insulation; they * generally require some oxygenized body to serve them as a base; and water being the weakest of these, and seldom interfering with the results of our experiments, we are in