535 ANlMAfj Cll liiVI 1ST il Y. contains also in proper cells the semifluid fat, of different consistence in different parts, but which in its chemical pro- perties resembles the fat oils of the vegetable kingdom. The sebacic acid, obtained from it, by means of distillation, by Cartheuser, Segner, Knape, and Crell, has been shown by Thenard to consist of the acetic and muriatic acids, with an empyreumatic oil of a very disagreeable smell. But in this oil Thenard found an acid, which could be extracted by boiling it with water, whence were obtained, by evapo- ration, small light granular crystals, and which he considered as a peculiar acid, and called the sebacic. I have recog- nised in this acid, with the exception of a few external cha- racters, all the properties of the benzoic acid^ and have thence been induced to consider the sebacic acid of Thenard, as the benzoic, contaminated by the remains of other products of distillation, which evidently give a smell, both to the acid and to the salts, and which modify their taste. 7. Pus. Many attempts have been made to distinguish the pus, which is formed in the inflammation of the cellular membrane, from mucus, but their results have not yet been perfectly satisfactory. The mucus of the trachea has, how- ever, the property of being easily dissolved by acids, and remaining in solution, while pus requires more concentrated acids, a:id may, after its solution, be precipitated by water. The modes proposed by Darwin, Bruggmans, Grasmeyer, and others, have failed for want of setting out with a correct distiiiction between the substances ; it having been assumed, that the substance, expectorated from lungs not ulcerated, was mucus, and that only pus which is discharged from an ulcer or abscess. But, in fact, the coloured blood, which passes during inflammation into the capillary arteries, exudes through the membrane of the trachea, and forms one kind of pus; while, in other parts of the cellular membrane, it is confined by the neighbouring parts, and cannot escape till their destruction has been effected, so that their remains must be mixed with the pus which is formed in this case. Dr. George Pearson has lately bestowed much labour and