ON CLASSIFICATION. of the difficulty of ascertaining the identity of the diseases. Ploucquet has in some measure supplied the deficiency, if such it can be called. It appears to me, says Cullen, that either a weak and superstitious veneration of antiquity, or a certain ostentation of learning, has much overrated the writ- ings of the ancients relating to the history of diseases. It cannot be denied that we sometimes find in their works the characters of diseases correctly delineated, but every thing of this kind which really occurs, however highly valued by the moderns, would have given us no substantial information, and would probably have escaped wholly unobserved, if it had not been confirmed by later observation. Synops, pro- leg. p. xii. ** With respect to the peculiar precautions to be observed in the distinction of diseases. Dr. Cullen lays down three general rules. Synops. proleg. p. xxxii. 1. He has always chosen external and sensible marks, neglecting, or rather rejecting, all conjectures respecting the internal state of the body: and of the sensible characters, he has preferred those which may be observed by the phy- sician, to those which the patient alone can determine. 2. He has endeavoured to fix on such symptoms as are present throughout the disease, although this is not always strictly practicable; even the cause must sometimes be con- sidered : and the succession of symptoms, as in intermittent fevers: but the duration must not be admitted as a distinc- tion. [A botanist learns to distinguish plants by their flowers, which are not always present; but when he is become a master of the science, he can ascertain the most important species from any one of their parts, and at any period of their growth. In the classification of diseases, we are at liberty to choose any of the train of causes and effects for determin- ing the character, as may be most convenient for the general purposes of the system, provided that they be sufficiently constant: having made this election, we have no further concern witli the causes passed by, unless they happen to be n 2