586 REMAUKS ON BLOOD AND PUS. the theory of supernumerary rainbows, (Nat. Phil. I. 471. PI. 30. Fig. 451. II. 643.) I have observed that the breadth of each bow must be the greater as the drops which afford it are smaller; and by considering the coloured figure, in which their production is analysed, it will be obvious, that if we suppose the coloured stripes extremely broad, they will coincide in such a manner in one part as to form a white bow : the red, which projects beyond the rest, being always broadest, so that if all the stripes be supposed to expand, while they preserve their comparative magnitude, the middle of the red may coincide with the middle of the blue ; and it will appear, on calculation, that a white bow will be formed, a few degrees within the usual place of the coloured bow, when the drops are about ^^^or^^t^^of an inchin diameter. It is remarkable that in such cases the original rainbow is al- together wanting, and probably for a similar reason, we scarcely ever see a rainbow in a cloud which does not con- sist of drops so large as to be actually falling, although I have once seen such a rainbow ending abruptly at the bottom of a cloud ; it may be conjectured that the edge of the light is in such cases so much weakened by diffraction, that it is too faint to exhibit the effects occasioned by a larger drop. Dr. Smith has made a remark somewhat similar, (Opt. r* 501.) which, if not completely satisfactory upon the prin- ciples which have been mentioned, is certainly altogether uintelligible upon his own. The coloured circles, immediately surrounding the shadows of the observers, may be deduced from the effect of the same minute particles of water, upon the light which has been four, and perhaps five, times reflected within the drops, which may, after transmission, coincide in direction with another portion, passing on the opposite side of the centre ; and the drops about -^^Vo diameter would in this manner produce a faint corona, of such magni- tude, that the limit of green and red, employed in the use of the eriometer, should be at the distance of about five de- grees from the centre of the shadow ; which, as nearly as I could estimate it, was its real distance in the appearance that I observed.