539 ANIMAL CHEMISTRY. substance of two kinds; when newly deposited, it is no- thing more than the mucus rendered grey; but by degrees, as the mucus is decomposed, phosphate of lime fixes on the teeth, and sometimes accumulates so as to form a stony sub- stance I or Y a line thick; which contains, besides bone earth, about ^ of its weight of the mucus of the saliva, dried up together with the earthy mass. [Dr. Bostock assumes that albumen is simply precipitated by sublimate, gelatin by infusion of galls, and mucus, unafifected by either of these, is thrown down by subacetate of lead. But in fact any of these precipitates may be of several kinds. The mucus, which he obtains from saliva, from oysters, or from the white of an egg, by agitation, filtration, and precipitation with subacetate of lead, is no other than a mixture of the oxyd of lead, thrown down by the uncombined alkali, and the sub- muriate of lead, which contains only 5 per cent, of the acid, and is therefore afforded in considerable abundance by a minute portion of common salt; for Bostock had not taken measures for separating these substances from his solutions : and when this has been done, the proper substance of saliva is not precipitated by subacetate of lead. While so much is presupposed, and so little accuracy is employed in distin- guishing one product from another, it is impossible that ani- mal chemistry can be rendered of any utility to physiology. Afh. III. 21.] Stevens, Reaumur, Spallanzani, Scopoli, Brugnatelli, Carminati, Vauquelin, and others, have attempted, but without much success, to investigate the nature of the gastric fluid. Vauquelin constantly found uncombined phosphoric acid in the gastric fluid of graminivorous animals, while that of men and of carnivorous animals seldom con- tained any perceptible traces either of uncombined acid or alkali. One of the most remarkable chemical properties of this fluid is its power of dissolving the food on which the animal subsists, and of coagulating milk and albuminous fluids, when employed only in the minutest quantity, as