557 ANIMAL CHEMISTRY. empyreumatic oil which is formed ; while the substance itself contains neither phosphoric acid uncomhined, nor any kind of phosphate. The liquor amnii has been analysed by Vauquelin and Buniva, and appears to resemble the fluid of the serous membranes, and the humours of the eye, containing from 1| to ly per cent, of solid matter. De Zondi has lately shown, that the supposed difference of the liquor amnii of quadrupeds from the human, depends only on the mixture of the contents of the allantoid membrane of the quadru- peds with it, at the time of birth. Vauquelin and Buniva found in this mixed fluid a peculiar acid, diflicult of solution, and crystallizable, which they called the amnic ; it much resembles the benzoic, but is distinguished from it by being destroyed both by distillation and by the nitric acid. They also found a brown extractive substance, not soluble in al- cohol, nor precipitable by tannin, which therefore differs from all other animal substances of the kind. Meconium has only been examined by Bayen; and seems to be the matter of bile converted into a resin, which the more re- sembles the same substance found in the intestines of the adult, as it is lower down, and more remote from the gall- bladder of the foetus. 15. Milk. The milk was first examined by Boyle. After him Boerhaave made a more complete analysis of it. Hof- mann, Macquer, and Spielmann continued the investigation, and Rouelle and Scheele separated its salts and its other component parts, which were little known before. Scheele discovered in it sugar of milk, and the lactic acid, and ex- plained many of its chemical properties. Long after this, Bouillon Lagrange and Thenard asserted, that the lactic acid was nothing but vinegar, united with a peculiar sub- stance, which could not be separated from it by distillation. Fourcroy and Vauquelin have since published a detailed analysis of milk, in which they still further object to the lactic acid of Scheele, on this ground, that its salts, distilled