ON CLIMATES. 601 In Madeira, though the thermometer attached to a build- ing is seldom found below 54”, there are frequently cold winds, snow, or more commonly something immediate be- tween snow and hail, often fall on the mountains, at the height of 1000 feet above the sea, and at still greater eleva- tions sometimes lying undissolved till July : and this im- perfect kind of hail falls occasionally even on the low grounds. The island is probably a more agreeable resi- dence than Malta, but it seems very doubtful whether it possesses any determinate advantage over it with respect to climate ; and it is not impossible, that some other islands in its neighbourhood may afford a greater equability of tem- perature. We have however a more established experience of its beneficial effects in pulmonary diseases than of almost any other situation. Dr. Adams says that, in cases of tubercular or scrofulous consumption, if the patient does not saunter away his time after you have advised him to leave England, we can with certainty promise a cure.” (Med. phys. journ. Apr. 1800.) This true English consumption he thinks is not to be found in Madeira, while the catarrhal affection, which somewhat resembles it, though without purulent ex- pectoration, is not uncommon, and may be fatal, if neglected or improperly treated. Dr. Gourlay agrees with Dr. Adams, in his report of the general benefit derived from the climate of Madeira, by consumptive persons, going to it from colder countries, to pass the winter in the island, and of the fre- quency of catarrhal affections among the inhabitants; but he strongly insists that genuine consumption is also very com- mon and very fatal. There can however be little doubt, from the concurrent testimony of the majority of observers, that the climate of Madeira is extremely salubrious, and that consumptions, though they may sometimes occur, are comparatively rare. In the West Indies, it is agreed by all authors, that con- sumptive affections are almost unknown, and that scrofula in all its forms is uncommon : while the inhabitants of the