O22101609381Digitized by the Internet Archive , in 2014 \ https://archive.org/details/b20392618THE INVALID'S OWN' BOOK.I 1 London: Printed by Spottiswoodb & Co., New-street-Squarfi.THE INVALID'S OWN BOOK: A Collection of Een'pes; PROM VARIOUS BOOKS AND VARIOUS COUNTRIES. BY THE HONOURABLE LADY GUST. SECOND EDITION. LONDON: LONGMAN, BROWN, GREEN, AND LONGMANS. 1856.WELLCO^ ■ -STITUTEDEDICATED BY GRACIO U S PERMISSION TO HER ROYAL HIGHNESS THE DUCHESS OF KENT.PEEFAOE All the works on Cookery hitherto published are full of Recipes to gratify the taste and provoke the appetite of persons in the enjoy- ment of good health; but few of the recipes contained in them are intended for those who, unfortunately, do not enjoy that blessing. It is for such persons that this little work has been written; and both the simplicity and the economy of its arrangements will, it is hoped, place it within the reach of all classes of society. Many of the Recipes were collected for the use of a beloved suffering member of my own family, since deceased, the companion of our residences in the Spanish Main, many of the A 4vlil PREFACE. Dutch, French, Spanish, and English West Indian Islands, and North America, by whose bedside the midnight hours were beguiled in compiling them.CONTENTS. ti:as. Balm Tea - - Spearmint Tea - Peppermint Tea - Rosemary Tea - Lime-flowers Tea - Violet Tea Compound Camomile Tea Liquorice Tea _ . - Elder-flower Tea - - - Cherry-stalk Tea - - - Horseradish Tea - - . Dandelion and Parsley Tea WATERS. Distilled Water - Toast Water Oat-cake Water - - _ Biscuit Water - Tea Water Acidulated Easpberry Water Capilaire Water - - - . Mint Water - - - Peppermint WaterCONTENTS. X Cinnamon Water - ^ Apple Water - . _ . _ _ ^ Pine-apple Water - . _ _ - s Lemon-peel Water - - . „ _ g Orange-peel Water - . . . - 8 Currant-jelly Water - - . . - g Tamarind Water - - _ . _ _ g Cranberry Water - - - - - . 9 Compound Cranberry Water - - . - 9 Mulben-y Water - - . - _ . 9 Flavoured Soda Water - - - . - 10 French Barley Water - - . . - 10 Eice Water - - . _ _ - 10 Almond Water - - . _ _ -11 Arrow-root Water - - . _ - n Prune, or Eaisin Water - - _ . - 12 French Dried Fruit Water - - . - 12 Cream of Tartar Water - - _ _ - 12 Fever Water - - - - _ - 13 Another - - - . . _ -13 Another - - - - - . -13 Another - - - - _ . -13 Another - - - .. . _ - 14 Lemonade - - - _ « - 14 Orangeade - - - . _ -14 Compound Lemonade - - - . - 15' Compound Orangeade - - - _ - 15 White Lemonade - - - - _ -15 Imperial - - - - _ . -15 Ginger Beer - - - . _ - 16 Spruce Beer - - - _ _ - 16 Treacle Beer - - - - . - 17 Soda-water Powders - - - - - 17 Ginger-beer Powders - - - . - 17 Freezing Powder - - - - - -18 Another - - - - - - -18xi CONTENTS. EMULSIONS AND DRINKS OF A MORE NUTRITIOUS NATURE. Page MxiK ooua water - - - - 19 OlXcU^LllClXiii^ XJLlXXa. • — - - 19 urgeau - - - - - - 19 - 20 .ti-uuiiicr - - - - ■ - 20 Xl. JL/Ulvll X>CVCl<*gC — — — - 20 - 21 A Ityi rtn f\ "P.TYi nloir^n _ » _ xxlXJLLUIlU. JZJllXLllalUXl - »- - 21 Tiinspftd T^mnlfiion « - - JLJ J~LJ.Q1^ U. tills LAXLjXV/XX - 22 r^oTYrnnnrirl Tjin^ipprl THitmilsiOTi - • - 22 VV ililo Ul -CiJ^^ J]!jIllUJ.DiUiI " — — 99 ^f''r»llr of TT.o'o* "RmnlQinTi — - — A-H-ifirtiol A co'c A/Tillr - _ .£iJLlIlCiai jti-bo S iyLllJv. " ~ - 9Q .iiTiinciai ijoat s ivixlk - - - 9Q C-Tirrtrti- T<n VTYi 11 _ _ _ oWccu JDULLcrillllK - - - - _ 9 Q 1. r^TYi Tr\ riV\ r^n t+ pvm 11 Ir ^ _ _ 94. ■Rqvlpv IVTlllr - - - ■ 94. Tsinp*lass? IVTillc - - - - 94. fr-nTn-firjiliip IVTilt - * _ . Sap'O Milk - - - . - - JO Coffee Milk . . _ _ 9 K 1^ 1 f»A "fl r\n »* TVyTillr _ _ - - 25 v/Udi lyj-iiis. — • • - 25 iyxLLK x)rai. ^vjrennau j - •* - - 26 Saffron Milk CDutch - - . - * Jo Green-Gooseberry Milk - - 26 Apple Milk - - - , - 27 Blackberry Milk . - - _ - 27 Orange Milk - - 27 Flour Milk - - 27 Arrow-root Milk - - - _ - 28 Oatmeal Milk - - _ _ - 28 Chocolate Milk - - 28CONTENTS. Tous les Mois Milk Maccaroni Milk - - . Vermicelli Milk - Swiss Cream - White Custard - _ _ Another - - - . Eau de Bemre. (French) Lait de Poule. (French) - Egged Tea _ . . Egged Coffee ... Rennet Whey - - - Two-Milk Whey made of Sour Milk Treacle Whey Vinegar Whey - - - Mustard Whey - _ . GRUELS AND PORRIDGES. Groat Gruel - - - - - - 33 Oatmeal Gruel - - - - - - 33 Polenta Gruel - - - - « - 34 Barley Gruel . _ _ _ _ - 34 Compound Barley Gruel - - - - - 34 Salep Gruel - - - - - - 34 Cactus Gruel - - - - - -35 Boiled Flour Gruel - - - - - 35 Arrow-root Gruel - - - - -35 Tous les Mois Gruel - - - - - 36 Sago Gruel - - - - - - 36 Tapioca Gruel - - - - - 36 Cassava Gruel - - - - - -36 Strengthening Sago Gruel - - - - 36 Skim-milk Porridge - - - - - 37 Another - - - - • - - - 37 Caudle - - - - - - -37 Another Cold Caudle - - - - - 38 Page - 28 - 29 - 29 - 29 - 29 - 30 - 30 - 30 " 31 - 31 - 31 - 31 - 32 - 32 - 32Xlll CONTENTS. • • • - Page Another Cold Caudle - - - - - 38 Eice Caudle - - - . - - 38 Another - - - - - 38 Flour Caudle - - - - - - 39 Another ~ - - - - - - 39 Bread Panada . - - - » - 39 Eusk Panada - . - _ _ - 39 Another ------ - 40 Annthpr ------ 4.0 *±\j Another ------ . 40 Another - 41 SWEET JELLIES. Jelly Stock - - . - . - 42 Gelatine or Isinglass Jelly . _ _ - 43 Hartshorn Jelly - - - - - - 43 Marasquino or Noyeau Jelly - - - - 43 Spirits Jelly - - . _ _ - 43 Prench Jellies - - 44 Orange Jelly - - 44 Lemon Jelly - - 44 Whisked Jelly - - - . - - 45 Chartreuse Jelly - - - - - 45 Arrow-root Jelly - - - - - - 45 Tapioca Jelly - - - . _ - 45 Gloucester Jelly - - - - - 46 Cranberry Jelly. (American) - - - - 46 Ci'anberry and Eice Jelly - - - - - 46 Port Wine Jelly - - - - - - 47 Egg Jelly - - 47 Iceland Moss Jelly - _ _ - - 47 Compound Iceland Moss Jelly - . _ - 48 Carageen or Irish Moss Jelly - - , - 48 Oatmeal Jelly, or Stiff Porridge - - 48 Pearl Barley Jelly, or Porridge - - - - 49CONTENTS. xiv '. Page riummery, or Sowans Jelly - - _ - 49 Blanc-mange - - - - - - 49 Arrow-root Blanc-mange - - - - - 50 Eice Blanc-mange - - - - - 50 Sago Blanc-mange - - - - -50 Tapioca Blanc-mange - - - - - 50 Somersetshire Firmity - - - - - 51 DIET OF A MORE SOLID NATURE. Maccaroni boiled - - - - - - 52 Polenta boiled - - - - - - 52 Sweet Hominy - - - - - - 52 Eice to boQ - - - - - - 53 Eice and Apple - - - - - - 53 Prunes and Eice - - - - - - 53 Eoasted Apples - - - - - - 54 Paradise Apples - - - - - -54 Apples and Custard - - - - - 54 Baked Pears ' - - - - - - 54 Stewed Apples - - - - - -55 PUDDINGS. Bread Pudding - - 56 Anotlicr - - 56 Another - - 56 Another baked - - 57 Bread-and-Butter Pudding - ■ 57 Muffin Pudding - - - - - 57 Biscuit Pudding - - - - - 58 Whole Eice-Pudding, baked - 58 Ground Eice Pudding, baked - 58 Barley Pudding - - - - - 59 Millet Pudding . - - - - 59 Cowslip Pudding ■ - 59 Mixed Pudding - - - - - 59CONTENTS. XV Page Custai'd Pudding - - - - . - 60 Another, quickly made « - - - - 60 Macearoni Pudding - - - » - 60 Vermicelli Pudding - - - - - 60 Tapioca Pudding - •- - - - -61 Sago Pudding - - - - - -61 Hasty Pudding - - . _ - -61 Cassava Flour Pudding - - - - - 61 Oatmeal Pudding - - - _ . - 62 Plain Suet Pudding - - - - - 62 Veal Suet Pudding - - - - - 63 Another, or Dumpling - - . . - 63 Calf's Foot Pudding - - . - - 63 MaiTow Pudding - - - _ . - 64 Omiet Souffle - - - _ . .64 Another - - - _ . _ -64 Sponge Pudding - - . _ . - 65 Dutch GaufFres - - _ - _ - 65 Boiled Eggs - - - . . .65 Poached Eggs - . . _ . - 66 BROTHS AND SOUPS. Welsh Broth - - . _ _ - 67 French Cabbage Broth - - _ . - 67 Broth without Meat - - . _ - 67 Another - - - . . _ -68 Gourd Broth - - . _ _ - 68 Another - - - . . _ -68 Beef Tea - - _ . . _ -69 Grain Soup without Meat - - - . - 69 Fowl Tea - - - . _ . Veal Tea - - . . . _ ] Mutton Tea - , _ _ _ .70 Chicken Broth - . _ . _ - 70 A Broth - - . . _CONTENTS. xvi Page Another, soon made - . _ . - 71 Another - - - . _ . -71 Another - - - - . . -71 Another - - - . _ . -72 Calf's Foot Broth - - .. - . -72 Another - . _ _ . . - 72 Plain Mutton Broth without Vegetables - - - 73 Another, more Savoury - - _ _ - 73 Another - - - - _ . - 73 Another, with Eice - - _ . -74 Another, with Semoline - - . . - 74 Another, with Arrow-root - - . - 74 Soup (Dr. Jephson) - - - , - 74 Essence of Meat, or Glaize - - - - 75 Eel Broth - - ... . . .75 Tench Broth - - - . . - 75 Barley Broth - - . - . -76 Mutton-shank Jelly (Lait de Poule) - - - 76 Mutton-shank Jelly, or Soup - - - - 76 Pork Soup or JeDy (Dr. Eadcliffe) - - - 76 Veal Soup, or Jelly (Dr. Jephson) - - - 76 Fowl Jelly or Soup - - - - - 77 Partridge or Pheasant Jelly, or Soup - - - 77 Cow-heel Jelly - - - - - -7? Aspic Jelly - - - - _ - 78 Sippets - - - - - - -79 Marrow Toast - - - . _ - 79 Savoury Rice - - - - - -79 Savoury Maccaroni - - - - - 79 Fowl Panada. - - - - - - 80 Calf's Foot baked - - - - - - 80 FISH. Whitings boiled - - - - - -81 Whitings broiled - - - - - -81 Whitings another way - - - - - 82xvii CONTENTS. Page Whitings, with Crumbs - - - - 82 Soles or Plounders in Cutlets - 82 Smelts or Sparlings - - - - 82 Smelts or Sparlings, another way - - 83 Smelts or Sparlings broiled - 83 Fish in Water (Dutch Way) - 83 Oysters or Cockles with Eice - 83 Eish and Eice, or Kedgeree - 84 Cod bounds boiled _ - _ - 84 Cod Sounds, another way - - - - 84 A Fish Pudding - - 85 MEATS. Fowl Pudding or Paste - - - - 86 Sweetbreads - - - - - 86 Another way - - 86 Tripe - . - . . - 87 Tripe, another Way - - - - 87 Tripe, with Onion Sauce - - 87 Tripe in Batter * - - - - 87 Fowl, with Eice - _ - - - 87 Fowl, with Maccaroni - 88 Minced Meat in Maccaroni - 88 Partridge roasted - - - - - 88 Pigeons roasted - - . .- 88 Pigeons stewed - 88 Pigeons broiled - - 89 Chicken roasted - - 89 Potted Fowl - 89 Fowl boiled - - 90 Beef stewed - - - . - 90 Lamb-chops or Cutlets - - . - 90 Lamb's Feet - 91 Calf's Feet - 91 Pig's Feet - . - . - . . . - 91 Mutton-chop plain - - 93 axvin CONTENTS. Another - Beef Rump Steak - Ox-tongue fresh - Ox-tongue pickled Meat Sandwiches - Fish Sandwiches - Vegetable Sandwiches PASTRY. Eice Paste for Savoury Dishes Rice Paste for Sweets Potato Paste - - - Bread Crust - Genevese Paste - - - Plain Short Crust - BREADS, &c. Bread (English) - Bread (French) . - - Bread Apple (Swiss) Whigs - - - - Buns, plain - - - Cracknels - - - Wafers - - - - Sponge Cakes Another - - - Lady's Fingers ... A Plain Cake - Bice Cake - - - Ginger Rocks - Bath Cakes Coddenham Biscuits Tonbridge-water Cakes Hard Biscuits Crisp plain Biscuits -CONTENTS; xix Page Tea Biscuits - - « - _ -103 Another Kind. jqS Another Kind ------ 104 Short Biscuits - - - - _ . 104 Another Kind - - - - - - 104 Marathon Biscuits - - - . - 104 American Biscuits - - - . _ -105 Potato Biscuits - . - . . -105 Patience Biscuits - - - . _ -105 Eusks, or Tops and Bottoms - - - - 106 Baked Crusts 106 SYRUPS Syrup of Eoses - - - _ _ Syrup of Mulberries - - . _ - 107 Syrup of Orange-flowers - - - . - 107 Syrup of Saffron - - ^ . _ _ jQg Syrup of Lemons - - ^ _ . -108 Syrup of Oranges - - ' - . . . ^08 Kaspberry Vinegar - - . _ - 109 CORDIALS. American Sherry Cobbler - - . . -no American Mint Julep - . . . -110 Barley Wine - - - . . -110 Mulled Wine - - . . . . lU Cyder Cup m Claret Cup - _ . . . -Ill Milk Punch HI Kum Punch (Dutch Eecipe) - . . .112 Egg Wine U2 Another - - - _ n„CONTENTS. XX EXPLANATION OF INGREDIENTS. Page Arrow-root - - - - - -113 Cactus vulgaris - - - - - -113 Carraway Seeds - - - - - -114 Cardamom Seeds - - - - - -114 Cassava - - - - - - - 114 Cinnamon (Laums Cinnamomum) - - - 114 Ginger (Zingiber) - - - - - -115 Gum Arabic (Arabicum) - - - - -115 Maccaroni - - - . . - 115 Nutmeg (iVwx moscAafa) - - - - -115 Pepper black {Piper nigrum); Pepper white (Piper de- corticatum - - - - - -116 Sago (Cycas circinalis) - - - - -116 Semoline - ~ • - - " -116 Sugar (Saccharum) - - - " -116 Tamarind (Tamarindus) - - - - -117 Tapioca (Jafrqp/ia ilfam'Ao?, Native of tropical Climates) - 117 Vermicelli - . - - - - 117THE INVALID'S OWN BOOK. TEAS.* BALM TEA. Pour boiling water upon the dried leaves of balm. Let it infuse till sufficiently strong, and pour it off. —♦— SPEARMINT TEA Is made in the same way. —♦— PEPPERMINT TEA Is made in the same way. * Eresh herbs or flowers should never be used for infusions ; they should always be previously dried. B2 THE invalid's OWN BOOK. EOSEMARY TEA Is made in the same way. —f— LIME-FLOWERS TEA Is a nice diluting drink, made from the blossoms of the lime tree. —♦— VIOLET TEA Is made from the dried flowers of the wood violet. ¥ COMPOUND CAMOMILE TEA. Take twenty camomile flowers, the rind of half a lemon peeled thin, and four cloves ; pour a breakfast-cup of boiling water upon them, and let them stand closely covered all night. In the morning strain ofl" the liquor, and take a wine- glassful half an hour before breakfast. This, with a tea-spoonful of sal-volatile, was a favourite recipe of the late Dr. Maton for indi- gestion.TEAS. 3 LIQUOKICE TEA. Pour boiling water upon bruised liquorice branch. Let it stand, and strain it. This is a very good remedy for cough. ELDER-FLOWEE TEA. Infuse dried elder-flowers the same way as common tea is made. Add a little acid to hide the sickly taste of the elder. Sweeten to the taste. This is an excellent remedy to promote pro- fuse perspiration. CHERRY-STALK TEA. Infuse cherry-stalks as above. Strain off the liquor. This is a French remedy for dropsy. HORSERADISH TEA. Scrape horseradish root into a jug ; pour boil- ing water upon it. Strain it, and flavour it to the taste. This is another remedy for dropsy. B 2THE invalid's OWN BOOK. 4 DANDELION AND PARSLEY TEA. Wash and scrape six roots of dandelion, and six of parsley ; add a pint of boiling water; set it by the fire to infuse for three hours. Add a pinch of salt to render it more palatable ; or, what is more efficacious, a little saltpetre (nitre). This is an excellent remedy in dropsy, &c., acting powerfully on the kidneys.5 WATEKS. B 3 WATERS. ■ DISTILLED WATER. Water that has been distilled is the softest of all waters, therefore the best adapted for drink- ing in cases of sickness, and for the purposes of infusions ; but, as a still is rarely ready at hand, water of the same quality may be obtained by the easy method of fixing a tin pipe about four feet long to the spout of any common kettle, and placing the other end of it into a decanter placed in a tub of cold water. The liquid, as it di'ops, must be kept cool by frequently changing the water in which the decanter is placed. Distilled water is now recommended for gout and diseases of the kidneys. The taste being flat and not agreeable, it should be poured several times from one vessel into another before use. -TOAST WATER. When you have toasted until brown about half a slice of a quartern wheat loaf, pour overTHE invalid's OWN BOOK. 6 it in a jar or jug about a quart of water. Let it stand an hour and a half, and pour the water clear from the toast into a wine decanter. It can be flavoured to the taste of the invalid if desired. —♦— OAT-CAKE WATER Is made the same way, substituting oat-cake for bread. This has proved very beneficial in cases of vomiting, which could not be allayed. —♦— BISCUIT WATER Is made the same way as the two preceding, and will be found an agreeable variety. —♦— TEA WATER. Pour into a tumbler of cold water a cup of tea made in the usual manner, with sugar and cream. —♦— ACIDULATED RASPBERRY WATER. Add a small quantity of raspberry vinegar to a tumbler of water.7 WATEES. B 4 CAPILAIEE WATER. Add to a decanter of water a small quantity of syrup of capilaire. MINT WATER. Water of distilled spearmint can be obtained of any druggist, and diluted into a pleasant drink with cold water. PEPPERMINT WATER. This is easily made to the taste, or as a con- veyance for medicines, by adding to a decanter of water some drops of essence of peppermint; or, if that is not to be had when required, peppermint lozenges dissolved in water have the same effect. CINNAMON WATER. This is made the same way, when the true dis- tilled cinnamon water cannot be obtained, only substituting essence of cinnamon. APPLE WATER. Pour a quart of boiling water upon two or three apples sliced into a jug; either raw or8 THE invalid's OWN BOOK. roasted apples will do. Strain the liquor from the fruit, and add sugar to the taste. —♦— PINE-APPLE WATER Is made the same way with slices of pine-apple. The rind even of the fruit makes it quite as good. LEMON-PEEL WATEE. Slice very thin, or rather pare, lemon-peel into a decanter or jug; pour boiling water upon it; cover it close ; when sufficiently strong of the peel, pour off the water, and add sugar. ORANGE-PEEL WATER Is made in the same way, using the peel of the sweet orange, with a small quantity of that of the Seville orange also. CURRANT-JELLY WATER. Put into a jug a few tea-spoonfuls of either red or blackcurrant jelly; pour boiling water upon it, and when it is dissolved pour off the clear part. Sugar may be added.9 WATERS. TAMAEIND WATEK. Pour boiling water upon bruised tamarind pods, or, when these cannot be obtained, upon the pre- served fruit. Let it stand a few hours, and pour off the liquor. —•♦■— CRANBEEEY WATEE. Pour boiling water upon bruised cranberries ; let them stand a few hours; strain off the liquor, and sweeten to the taste. This drink is much used in America. COMPOUND CEANBEEEY WATEE. Boil till smooth two large spoonfuls of oatmeal in a quart of water, with a slice of lemon-peel; mash a few dozen cranberries in a small quantity of cold water, and add them to the gruel, which must be very thin. Sweeten to the taste. A glass of white wine or a small quantity of brandy may be added. —♦— MULBEEEY WATEE. This is a pleasant variety, and is made by crushing a few of the ripe fruit, and pouring on boiling water as before directed.THE invalid's OWN BOOK. 10 FLAVOUEED SODA WATER. Put into a tumbler glass some of the syrup made from any of the recipes for "Syrups" in this book, and pour on it a bottle of soda water. This is a convenient beverage, as the flavour can be varied so many ways. —♦— FRENCH BARLEY WATER. Take tAVO ounces of pearl barley, and boil it in half a gallon of water until tender, taking oflf the scum as it rises. Strain it through a fine sieve ; sweeten to the taste. Lemon-peel can be added, as also the juice of orange, lemon, or any other fruit. The remaining barley boiled to paste is also good. RICE WATER. Boil gently until quite soft in a quart of water three ounces of whole rice. Skim it as it boils. When the rice is as soft as paste, take it from the fire, and strain it through a fine hair sieve or cloth. Sweeten it to the taste with sugar or honey, which latter is the best in cases of colds; when a few apples boiled in it, or lemon-juice added, is an improvement. Rice water plain and iced is a valuable and agreeable drink in cases of diarrhoea.11 WATERS. ALMOND WATEE. Blanch (that is, take the peels off) by immer- sion in hot water, five ounces of sweet almonds, and about two ounces of bitter, rather less than more. Pound them to a paste in a marble mor- tar with a little rose water, or orange-flower water, to prevent them oiling, oil of bitter almonds being poison. Make a pint and a half of syrup, to which add the almonds, and let the whole simmer very gently for twenty minutes, when strain it, and add water to the taste of the invalid, also the flavouring. —♦— ARROW-EOOT WATEE. Peel and quarter three or four apples, and boil them until soft in about a quart of water, with a little lemon-peel, or other flavour, taking care to remove it before it tastes too strong. Rub a table- spoonful of arrow-root in half a teacup of cold water until quite smooth; add by degrees another teacupful, still stirring and rubbing it with the back of the spoon; then pour it into the apple water, and let it all boil gently together a quarter of an hour. Pass it through a sieve. It can be taken either warm or cold. This drink without the apple is also good for diarrhoea.12 THE invalid's OWN BOOK. PRUNE, OR RAISIN WATER. Boil for half an hour a handful of prunes, or raisins, in three pints of water, which should boil when they are put in. Set it to cool after straining. Sweeten and flavour it to the taste; and a little sherry wine or brandy may be added. The fruit that is taken out, if prunes, need not be wasted, as they are no worse for eating, either as they are, or warmed up in syrup. FRENCH DREED ERUIT WATER. Boil three pints of water, and throw into it a handful of sliced dry figs; then add three apples, cut into round slices, and a small quantity of lemon-peel cut thin, or a bitter almond. Simmer slowly for half an hour, and strain off the liquor, which can be taken warm or cold. I CREAM OF TARTAR WATER. Put a large table-spoonful of the powder of cream of tartar into a quart jug, with some thin sliced lemon-peel, and an ounce of gum arable. ! Pour boiling water upon it. Let it stand some hours; sweeten to the taste. The quantity of cream of tartar can be regulated to the taste of13 WATERS. the patient. It is a valuable medicine in cases of dropsy. FEVER WATER. Pour into a tumbler of cold water a table- spoonful of lemon-juice, or even vinegar, when the former is not ready at hand. The addition of any kind of syrup is a great improvement. ANOTHER. Put into a jug some dried borage and sage leaves, and a small quantity of wood sorrel; add a slice of lemon or orange, and pour boiling water upon it. Cover it, let it stand till cold, strain, and sweeten it. ANOTHER. Put into a jug a small quantity of balm and sage leaves, and a little wood sorrel; add a slice of orange or lemon; pour boiling water upon it, cover It, and let it stand a few hours. Sweeten to the taste. ANOTHER. Put two tamarind pods bruised, or two table- spoonfuls of the preserved fruit, and three ounces14 THE invalid's OWN BOOK. of chopped raisins or prunes, into a quart of water; simmer it slowly some hours; add a slice of lemon ; let it stand, and strain it. Sweeten it to the taste. —♦— ANOTHER. Put into three pints of water an ounce of pearl barley previously well washed; set it on the fire, and change the water several times. Blanch it, and pound with a little rose or orange-flower water a handful of sweet almonds, with one or two bitter ones if approved. Simmer gently a short time, sweeten, and flavour it to the taste after it is strained. LEMONADE. Pour boiling water upon the juice of six lemons, and the rind of one peeled thin, and cover it close; add some syrup made with loaf sugar and water, or sugar-candy; dilute it with water to the taste, and strain it through a flannel bag. —♦— ORANGEADE. This may be made in the same manner, sub- stituting sweet oranges, and using a small quan- tity of the peel of a bitter orange.WATEES. 15 COMPOUND LEMONADE. Take two quarts of common barley water without sugar; add to it a pint of syrup made of loaf sugar, or sugar-candy, and some thinly sliced lemon-peel; the pulp may be added also/ Sim- mer all together for a short time, and strain it into a decanter, adding more water to the taste, with sherry wine or brandy if necessary. COMPOUND OEANGEADE Is made in the same way, using sweet oranges with a smaU quantity of the rind of the bitter. WHITE LEMONADE. Pare five lemons and two Seville oranges as thin as possible; put them into a basin with a quart of boiling water, half a pound of loaf suo-ar the juice of the lemons and oranges, and half a pmt of white wine; cover it, and let it stand all night. In the morning add half a pint of milk boilmg, and strain it through a jelly-bag till Clear. IMPERIAL. Two ounces of cream of tartar, and the juice and peel of two lemons; put it into a stone jarTHE invalid's OWN BOOK. 16 with seven quarts of boiling water; stir it, and cover it close. When cold, add half a pint of spirits to keep it; sweeten to the taste, and bottle it. GINGEE BEEK. To ten gallons of water add fifteen pounds of loaf sugar, and the whites and shells of two eggs. Boil all together a quarter of an hour, and take off the scum as it rises ; then add one pound of bruised ginger, and boil it a quarter of an hour longer. Strain it into a vessel to cool. When about milk warm, put it in the cask with a little good yeast. Take the juice of twelve lemons, and the peel of six, in which dissolve a little isinglass or gelatine, and put that in the cask. Next morning, when it has ceased to ferment, close it fast. In a fortnight it will be fit to bottle in wine bottles. SPBUCE BEER. The recipe for spruce beer is sold on all tbe pots of Bridge's Essence of Spruce, which is re- quired to make it. A little sugar, put m the o-lass when the beer is used, is an improvement to17 BEVERAGES. TREACLE BEER. Put into two quarts of boiling water one pound of treacle; stir them till well mixed; then add six or eight quarts of cold water, and a teacup- ful of yeast. Put it into a cask, cover it with a coarse cloth doubled several times, and it will be fit to drink in two or three days. It may also be bottled. After the first time of making, the bottoms of the beer will serve for yeast. If in- tended for keeping, and made in large quantities, add a handful of hops, and one of malt, and, when done working, stop it close. SODA-WATER POWDERS. One ounce of tartaric acid, one ounce of siiper- carbonate of soda in fine powder, but separately made into eighteen powders. When required, dissolve a powder of each in water, and add them together in a large glass. GINGER-BEER POWDERS Are made in the same way, adding a little powdered ginger; or the same effect is produced by addmg to the above soda-water powders when dissolved a few drops of essence of ginger. c I18 THE invalid's OWN BOOK. FREEZING POWDER. Saltpetre in fine powder five parts; salammoniac in fine powder five parts; water sixteen parts. Mix. ANOTHER. Common salt one part; snow two parts. There is a patent machine with which, when thejirst powder is used, ice is soon produced.C 2 EMULSIONS AND DRINKS OF A MORE NUTRITIOUS NATURE. MILK SODA WATER. Half fill a tumbler with milk, and pour upon it soda water. —+— STRENGTHENING DRINK. Boil a tea-spoonful of pearl barley in two pints of water, changing the water several times. When it becomes clear, add a little cinnamon or nutmeg, and some lemon-peel cut very thin. Strain it' and add a small quantity of milk. If approved, sweeten with sugar or honey. ORGEAT. Beat two ounces and a half of sweet almonds with a little rose or orange-flower water, to pre- vent their oiling, men beat fine, add a quart of milk, and water to the taste. Sweeten it with20 THE invalid's OWN BOOK. sugar, and add any flavour agreeable to the patient. A bitter almond may be pounded with the sweet ones ; and half an ounce of powdered gum-arabic is very beneficial to allay irritation. ANOTHER. Boil three pints of milk with a little lemon-peel or cinnamon, and a small quantity of honey or sugar. When cold, pour it upon beaten sweet almonds, with a few bitter ones to flavour it. The almonds must be beaten with rose water. A small quantity of liqueur or brandy may be added, if approved. —♦— ANOTHER. i Blanch and beat half a pound of sweet almonds and twenty bitter ones, adding rose or orange- flower water as they are beaten, to prevent them oiling. Boil with two pints of milk a pint and a half of water ; let it €Ool. Make a thin syrup of sugar and water, add it to the almonds and milk, strain it, and flavour it to the taste. —♦ ^ A DUTCH BEVERAGE. Hang a few pints of fresh churned buttermilk in a cloth all night, which has been previouslyEMULSIONS. 21 c 3 washed out in bran and water. The next morn- ing the whey will have run from it; take the solid part, and mix it with milk or cream, and sweeten it to the taste. This is very beneficial and cooling in fevers j but it must not be made from buttermilk churned from sweet milk ; the milk must be first sour. —♦—^ MARSH-MALLOW EMULSION. Slice the dried roots of marsh mallows, and take four ounces of them, and boil them with an ounce and a half of chopped raisins in a quart of water. When it has boiled till there is a good sediment, strain it, and sweeten it with honey. Water can be added to the taste of the patient. This is very beneficial in diseases of the kidneys. ALMOND EMULSION. Half an ounce of blanched sweet almonds, and a quarter of an ounce of white sugar, beat in a marble mortar with a little rose water, and a quarter of an ounce of gum-arabic. When it is in a paste, add by degrees half a pint of cold water; stir it, and squeeze it through a cloth.22 THE invalid's OWN BOOK. LINSEED EMULSION. Take an ounce of linseeds, two drachms of liquorice root sliced and bruised; pour on them nearly a pint of boiling water. Place the jug containing the mixture on the hob by the fire for four hours, when strain it off. ♦ COMPOUND LINSEED EMULSION. Boil half a teacupful of linseeds in a pint of water for about ten minutes, skimming it as the scum rises; strain it through a sieve. Beat in with a fork half a teacupful of new milk; sweeten with honey or sugar, and flavour it with lemon- peel or cinnamon, or a few sliced bitter almonds boiled in it. —♦— WHITE OF EGG EMULSION. Beat the whites of two fresh eggs Avith a few table-spoonfuls of milk or cream, half a tea- spoonful of powdered gum-arabic, and a small quantity of honey or sugar. This is very efficacious to swallow gently in sore throat.23 MILKS. c 4 YOLK OF EGG EMULSION Is made the same way, substituting the yolks of eggs for the whites; but being more sickly, it requires more flavouring. —♦ ARTIFICIAL ASS'S MILK. Boil together a quart of water and a quart of new milk with a good quarter of an ounce of bruised eryngo root, and sweeten with sugar- candy. A quarter of an ounce of conserve of roses is a beneficial addition. This, being astringent, must be used care- fuUy. ARTIFICIAL GOAT'S MILK. Chop fine an ounce of fresh mutton suet; tie it in a muslin bag very lightly, so as not to squeeze the suet. Boil it slowly in a quart of new milk, and sweeten it to the taste with white sugar or sugar-candy. This is highly nutritious. SWEET BUTTERMILK. Churn in a small wooden churn new milk warm from the cow until butter rises ; strain it, and drink the milk frequently.24 THE invalid's OWN BOOK. COMMON BUTTEEMILK, As churned from sour cream, is too well known to need a recipe. It is only those persons who live in the country that know the cooling and beneficial properties of buttermilk in allaying irritation in fevers, and assuaging thirst. —♦— BAELEY MILK. Rub with a spoon a small quantity of prepared barley in with a few tea-spoonfuls of new milk ; add more by degrees, and boil it till it is of a proper consistency on a slow fire; flavour and sweeten it to the taste. ♦— ISINGLASS MILK. Boil half an ounce of isinglass in a pint of new milk, with a little thin rind of lemon, or a bitter almond; strain it, and if it is too thick add more milk. Gelatine is a good substitute for isinglass. —♦— GUM-AEABIC MILK. Set some new milk to boil, and thicken it with powdered gum-arabic; flavour it with lemon-peel, or any other flavour, and sweeten it.MILKS. 25 This is a nourishing food much used by the Arabs. —♦— : SAGO MILK. Wash a large table-spoonful of sago, and boil it slowly in new milk with a small quantity of lemon or orange peel; sweeten to the taste. The grains must be boiled till they are as soft as possible. ♦— COFFEE MILK. Make some strong coffee in the usual way, clearing it well after; add new milk to the taste; sweeten with honey or sugar. ♦ EICE-FLOUR MILK Is made the same way as barley milk. It is, however, different in its properties, which must be considered in the sick room : rice, being more astringent, is fitter for diarrhoea. COAL MILK. Set on to boil a pint of new milk, and when it begins to boil, put in a piece of common shiningTHE invalid's OWN BOOK. 26 black coal, about the size of a large walnut; let it remain in until the milk is sufficiently thick; flavour and sweeten to the taste. This is a very nutritive food, and easily ob- tained. It was recommended for decline by a physician. MILK BEAI. (GEKMAN.) Melt in a pipkin two ounces of butter; when melted, and quite hot, add as much flour as the butter will absorb. Stir it on the fire for six minutes ; fill the pipkin gradually with cold milk, and let it boil half an hour, stirring it all the time; then add two ounces of loaf sugar and a pinch of salt. Serve it up warm. ♦ SAFFRON MILK. (DUTCH.) Set some milk on to boil, and add a small quantity of safiron; sweeten to the taste. This is a favourite Dutch remedy for a cold. • ♦—— GREEN-GOOSEBERRY MILK. Set the fruit in a jar on a stove, or place the jar in a pan of water to boil; when soft, rub the fruit through a cullender with a spoon, and add milk and sugar to the taste.27 MILKS. APPLE MILK Is made the same way, but is improved by the addition of cinnamon or lemon-peel. BLACKBERRY MILK. Stew blackberries on a slow fire till soft. Rub them through a cullender; put the pulp back into the pan, and add gently some milk, thickened with flour and sugar. Mix all together, and sim- mer it to the consistence of porridge. ♦ ORANGE MILK, Beat three eggs with a small quantity of ca- pillaire, or orange syrup; add by degrees the juice of two large Seville oranges, and a pint of new milk cold; sweeten it to the taste, and flavour it with the rind of the oranges, which must be done very carefully, or it will be bitter. This must be made like custard, not allowed to boil, or it will curdle. ♦— FLOUR Mn.K. Rub a spoonful of flour into a few spoonfuls of milk; add more by degrees, until you have a pint; add a small pinch of salt; flavour and sweeten it to the taste.28 THE invalid's OWN BOOK. ARROW-ROOT MILK. Rub a tea-spoonful of arrow-root with a very small quantity of milk, adding more until it is the consistence of very thick cream; set it on the fire, adding more milk, and stirring it gently till it is quite thick and smooth; flavour and sweeten it to the taste. OATMEAL MILK Is made the same way; and a pinch of salt im- proves both. ♦ CHOCOLATE MILK. Boil a pint of new milk, then scrape intO/it a cake of chocolate when it is boUing. Mill it off the fire until quite mixed; and after, mill it on a slow fire until it boils. It keeps longer made the same way without milk. ♦ TOUS LES MOIS MILIv. This is a powder purchased at the grocer's, and it is used in the same way as arrow-root, and is as wholesome.29 CEEAM.— CUSTAED. MACCAEONI MILK. Stew maccaroni in water or new milk until quite tender; cut it very small; sweeten and flavour it to the taste, or use salt only. VERMICELLI MILK Is made the same way, substituting vermicelli for maccaroni. SWISS CREAM. Boil a pint of cream or new milk with a little cinnamon or lemon-peel; rub a tea-spoonful of flour in a small quantity of milk, and add it to the rest, stirring it on the fire. —♦— WHITE CUSTARD. Boil two pints of new milk with some cinna- mon and a few bitter almonds. Beat to a paste with rose water a few sweet almonds, and add them to the custard. Thicken it to the taste with a little flour or arrow-root previously rubbed down with water or milk; sweeten and flavour it to the taste.30 THE invalid's OWN BOOK. ANOTHER. Boll a pint of milk with some cinnamon, or two spoonfuls of orange-flower or rose water. Blanch and beat four ounces of sweet almonds, and add the yolks of four eggs well beaten. Put it on a slow fire, and stir it tiU thick. It must be sweetened and flavoured to the taste, and the eggs must not be added whilst the mix- ture is hot, but stirred in after on the fire. EAU DE BEUERE. (FRENCH.) Melt a piece of butter about the size of a nut by pouring on it a pint of boiling water; add sugar and flavouring, and pour it from one vessel to another until it is in a high froth. This should be taken warm going to bed, and is an easily obtained and quickly made good remedy for a cold. LAIT DE POULE. (ERENCH.) Beat an egg until it is in a high froth ; put it into a glass with sufficient water to melt the sugar; fill it up with tepid water, stirring it all the time, and pour it from one vessel to another until it is in a high froth. To be taken warm last thing at night as a cure for cold.WHETS, 31 EGGED TEA. Beat a fresh laid egg in a breakfast-cup, and fill it up with hot tea, stirring it all the time; add cream and sugar as usual. EGGED COFEEE Is made the same way. They are both very strengthening for breakfast. EENNET WHEY.' Infuse a piece of the skin in a small quantity of boiKng water, as for making cheese. Let it remain an hour or two. Put a table-spoonful of the fluid to the quantity of three pints of new milk, just warmed, not hot. Cover it with a cloth, and let it stand still until the curd is formed thick on the top. Press out and use the whey. TWO-MILK WHEY MADE OF SOUR MILK. Boil together new milk and buttermilk until a curd is formed. Let it stand by the side of the fire to settle, when strain off the whey. Sugar can be added if approved. ^ This is a cooling drink much used in the country, Buttermilk of siceet milk will not do.32 THE invalid's own BOOK. TREACLE WHEY. Add a large spoonful of treacle to a pint of boiling new milk or buttermilk (the latter is the best); add a sprig of rosemary if not disliked. When it is curdled sufficiently, strain it from the curd. J£ it is too sweet dilute it with water; but it will not curdle with a less quantity of treacle. VINEGAR WHEY. Curdle a pint of boiling milk with a small wine-glass of vinegar; then add black or red currant jelly, or a large spoonful of preserved tamarinds, or damsons. Strain off the whey from the curd. ♦ MUSTARD WHEY. Curdle half a pint of new milk by boiling in it an ounce of bruised mustard seeds. Strain off the whey, and flavour it to the taste. This is much used for dropsy. *I GRUELS. 33 GEUELS AND POERIDGES. GROAT GEUEL. Wash well in cold water two ounces and a quarter of groats, changing the water ; boil them slowly in a quart of water until half is boiled away. Keep stirring it, and mind that it is quite smooth. It may be strained or not. Add salt, milk, butter, sugar, or any approved flavouring. —♦— OATMEAL GRXJEL. Stir until smooth, in a basin, two ounces of oatmeal, with a small quantity of milk or water, until quite creamy. Put into a pan on the fire a pint of new milk or water, or a half of each, and add the oatmeal. Stir it till it boils. Let it boil about twenty-five minutes. This can be seasoned or flavoured like the above. —34 THE invalid's OWN BOOK. POLENTA GRUEL Is made the same way, using a less quantity, as the flour swells very much in cooking. This is very nutritiousj^and less heating than oatmeal. BAELEY GRUEL. Wash in two or three waters two ounces of pearl barley. Let it boil ten minutes, and change the water. Heat about three pints of milk or water, and add it to the barley, with a little cin- namon or lemon-peel, or salt only. Strain it. COMPOUND BARLEY GRUEL. Boil in common barley gruel two ounces of sliced figs, three ounces of cut raisins, four drachms of sliced liquorice root, and a little lemon-peel. Boil it till it is reduced to half, and sweeten with honey to the taste. SALEP GRUEL. Mix two tea-Spoonfuls of salep in a small quan- tity of water. Rub it till smooth, and add it to a pint of water boiling on the fire. Let it boil for five minutes, stirring it, and add some lemon-peeL AVine or milk is a great addition to it. Sweeten to the taste.35 GRUELS. CACTUS GRUEL. Split a leaf or two of the prickly pear cactus, and boil it in water until it is a thin mucilaginous beveragfe. This is much used in Barbadoes as a remedy for inflammatory complaints. BOILED ELOUR GRUEL. Boil for three hours in a piece of linen, tied up, three table-spoonfuls of flour; let the bag be taken out, and allowed to cool. When quite cold, take it out of the bag; a ball will be found. Make the inside scraped into gruel, with water or milk, and flavour to the taste. ARROW-ROOT GRUEL. Mix a dessert-spoonful with a small quantity of cold water or milk. Add a little more water slowly, and pour it into a pint of boiling water or milk, or half and half of each, and keep stirrino- It till it is thick and quite smooth. Cinnamon or lemon-peel can be added, and, when it is made with water, wine, if allowed. With brandy, milk will not turn sour. li 2THE invalid's OWN BOOK. 36 TOUS LES MOIS GRUEL Is made the same way. SAGO GRUEL. Wash the sago in several different waters. Let it soak for a short time ; then add fresh water, and simmer it gently until the sago is quite clean, large, and soft; add milk or wine, or any other flavouring, as you would to arrow-root and tous lea mois gruel. TAPIOCA GRUEL Is made the same way as the preceding. CASSAVA GRUEL Is made the same way. This is equally nutritious, and its use is not sufficiently estimated in this country. STRENGTHENING SAGO GRUEL. Wash in several waters four table-spoonfuls of sao-o, and after it has soaked put it into three pint^s of water ; add a small quantity of Hollands and sherry wine, some cinnamon, or nutmeg, orPORRIDGES. 37 D 3 ginger, and some lemon or orange peel. Sweeten with honey or sugar. Let it boil gently. This is very strengthening after illness. SKIM-MILK PORKEDGE. Make a thin gruel of groats; strain it; add milk, or equal parts of water and milk; sweeten and flavour it. The gruel should be strained before the other ingredients are added. ANOTHER. Pour some water upon oatmeal to wash it; then, after throwing that away, pour on more; let it stand twelve or fourteen hours, and strain it. Boil the water with an equal quantity of milk; flavour it to the taste. CAUDLE. Beat an egg, yolk and white together, and stir it into a pint of thin cold gruel, of either groats or oatmeal; set it on the fire, adding wine or brandy, and flavouring. Sweetening spices as permitted to the patient.38 THE invalid's OWN BOOK. ANOTHER COLD CAUDLE. Boil a pint of gruel; when hot add a piece of butter about the size of a walnut, and some lemon or orange-peel; add wine, brandy, milk, or spices, as permitted. » ANOTHER COLD CAUDLE. Beat two eggs in cold water, and add the juice of an orange or of a lemon, a few spoonfuls of sherry wine or brandy, and flavouring and sweet- ening to the taste. —♦ RICE CAUDLE. Rub a table-spoonful of ground rice into a pint of water by degrees. Boil it till smooth and thick. Sweeten and flavour it like the preceding. If too thick, dilute it. ANOTHER. Wash two spoonfuls of whole rice; pour off the water; then put the rice into a pint and a half of new milk previously boiled and allowed to grow cold. Simmer all gently on a slow fire until the rice is sufficiently soft to rub through a sieve, when add it again to the milk, and simmer it for a short time with a small quantity of lemon- peel, spices, or other flavourings.PANADAS. 39 FLOUR CAUDLE. Rub two tea-spoonfuls of flour into half a pint of cold water; put it into a saucepan with the same quantity of new milk; add lemon-peel, sweetening, or flavouring to the taste ; or it may- be eaten with salt alone. —♦— ANOTHER. Eub a small piece of butter into some flour; add a pinch of salt, and melt it in half a pint of new milk and the same of water; sweeten and flavour to the taste. The caudle must simmer before the other ingredients are added, until it is quite smooth. BREAD PANADA. Take a table-spoonful of grated bread crumbs, and add them to half a pint of water warmed on the fire. Boil it very fast for a few minutes with a little ginger or cinnamon, and a glass of sherry wine, or a table-spoonful of brandy. Lemon, orange-peel, or other flavouring can be added. —♦— RUSK PANADA. Boil for half an hour two rusks; strain off the water, and beat up the rusks in milk. Simmer D 440 THE invalid's OWN BOOK. it a short time, and add wine, sweetening, and flavouring to the taste. —♦— ANOTHER. Make this the same way as the bread panada, only adding some syrup of orange-peel or capil- laire, and a dessert-spoonful of brandy. -—♦— ANOTHER. Boil some lemon-peel, and a little of the juice, in some water; add a small quantity of syrup of eapillaire, or a bitter almond; then put in the bread crumbs; boil all together slowly for five minutes. ANOTHER. Mix the crumbs of biscuit or new bread with water, a little salt, pepper, and a small piece of butter. Rub it well through a sieve, when add a small quantity of milk, or the whites of two eggs beaten. It must not boil after the eggs are put in.PANADAS. 41 ANOTHEE. Break into a pipkin a penny roll, or the weight in biscuit; keep it on the fire till soft enough to pass through a sieve. Add a little salt and butter, and new milk. When cool, beat up the yolk of an egg and stir it in. Warm it all together on the fire, but do not let it boil. IT42 THE invalid's OWN BOOK. SWEET JELLIES. JELLY STOCK. Boil, the day before jelly is required, two calf s feet (previously cut up) in two quarts of water. Boil them once up, and then let the pan simmer gently by the fire for about five hours. Keep the fat skimmed off as it rises; and when the feet are quite soft, strain off the liquor, and let it rl^ain some hours, until it is quite hard, when again remove from the top all the sediments, leaving it pure and dry underneath. It is now ready for jellies. Melt in a pan some sugar, with half a pint of water, wine in proportion to what is allowed, the rind of two lemons, and the juice of three or four, and the whites and shells broken together of five or six eggs, and the jelly stock. Put it on the fire, and whisk it till it boils, when strain it through a flannel jelly-bag. The first which runs through will be too thick, and must be re- turned again into the jelly-bag. When it is all clear, put it into a mould, and when cold turn itJELLIES. 43 out, dipping the mould first lightly into warm water. —f-— GELATINE OK ISINGLASS JELLY Is made the same way, using gelatine or isinglass, in the proportion to one quart of water, one ounce and a half of either, and boiling the stock till it is half reduced. —♦ HAKTSHOEN JELLY. In two quarts and a half of water boil half a pound of hartshorn shavings, stirring till reduced to less than half, and proceed with the stock as for the preceding jellies. ♦ MAEASQUINO OR NOYEAU JELLY. Mix five or six liqueur glasses of noyeau or marasquino, or other liqueurs, with a quart of any of the above stocks. —♦— SPIRITS JELLY, Brandy, rum, or punch, is made in the same way.THE invalid's OWN BOOK. 44 FRENCH JELLIES. Let a layer of melted jelly cool in the bottom of your mould; tlien add a layer of any kind of fresh fruit, or soft dried fruit; then add an- other layer of jelly, and so on until the mould is filled. —♦— ORANGE JELLY. Make half a pint of thick syrup, to which has been added, before you set it on to boil, some lemon-peel, and peel of one or two sweet oranges, and half a Seville orange-peel; remove them before it becomes too bitter; skim it well; add the juice of six oranges, and the stock of half an ounce of isinglass or gelatine, dissolved as for other jellies. Pass it through a jelly-bag as before. In boiling jellies a small quantity of water added makes the scum rise better to skim off. LEMON JELLY Is made the same way, using the rind of a lemon peeled very thin, the juice squeezed of five large lemons, and two or three glasses of any kind of pale light wine or brandy ; and when lemons are not at hand, a few drops of essence of lemon, and a small quantity of citric acid powder, are good substitutes.JELLIES. 45 WHISKED JELLY Is made from any of the above jellies, placed whilst hot in a vessel in ice (if possible), and whisking until it is in a froth, when turn it into a mould, as with other jellies. CHARTEEUSE JELLY Is made with all kinds of fresh fruits, tastefully arranged in shapes, building them round the mould, and filling up with jelly between the rows, as directed in "French jelly." ARROW-ROOT JELLY. Rub till smooth two or three tea-spoonfuls of arrow-root in a very small quantity of cold water, as usual; add by degrees a little more. Have boil- ing in a pan a pint of water, with a lemon peel in it, some ginger, cinnamon, nutmeg, or any other flavouring allowed, and whatever quantity of wine or brandy, or a small quantity of both, if allowed. Sweeten to the taste, and boil it five minutes. TAPIOCA JELLY. Wash a small quantity of tapioca in several waters; and let it soak in the last about seven46 THE invalid's OWN BOOK. hours, when put it into a pan with water, and simmer it gently until it is quite soft and clear. Lemon or orange-peel may be simmered in it; and wine, and flavouring, and sweetening to the taste. Of tapioca, a very small quantity goes a great way. GLOUCESTER JELLY. Take of rice, pearl barley, sago, hartshorn shavings, and eryngo root sliced, each an ounce; simmer in three pints of water till reduced to one; sweeten and flavour to the taste. When cold, cut it up ; and it may be taken dissolved in yiilk, wine, or broth. —♦ CRANBERBY JELLY (AMERICAN). Mix a double quantity of the juice strained from crushed cranberries to that of any of the stocks for jellies. Sweeten, and pour it into a mould. It will not look clear like other jellies. The fruit must be scalded first. —♦— CRANBERRY AND RICE JELLY. Scald and press the juice from American cran- berries, and make it into a jelly, with as much rice, tapioca, or sago, as will boil and turn out of47 JELLIES. a mould. Sweeten it to the taste. This jelly- is eaten with wine, milk, or cream in America. —♦— PORT WINE JELLY. Simmer in a bottle of port wine an ounce of isinglass, with a small quantity of cinnamon, sugar, and cloves. This has been used with good results when the strength is greatly reduced, and more substantial nourishment could not be given. —♦— EGG JELLY. Dissolve in a pint of water an ounce of gela- tine ; then add half a pint of white wine of any- kind, the peel of half a lemon grated, and the juice of one large lemon and three large oranges. Beat the yolks of seven eggs very well, and add them to the mixture, with some white sugar; simmer all together gently for a few minutes. ICELAND MOSS JELLY. Wash and bruise Iceland moss ; put it to soak over night in tepid water; dry it; boil it in a saucepan till reduced to half the quantity. The proportion is an ounce to a quart of water. Strain it through a sieve, and take it withTHE invalid's OWN BOOK. 48 milk or wine, or flavoured, or with a tea- spoonful of "consumption syrup." In this pre- paration is a slight bitter, which is beneficial; but it can be removed by adding to the water in which it is soaked a small quantity of carbo- nate of soda. —♦— COMPOUND ICELAND MOSS JELLY. Add to the above a few chips of bitter orange peel, and a small quantity of hartshorn shavings. ! ♦ : CARAGEEN OR IRISH MOSS JELLY Is made the same way. It is very cheap, and nearly as nutritive. OATMEAL JELLY, OR STIFF PORRIDGE. Keep a pint of water boiling; and whilst it is still on the fire, stir in very fast small quantities of oatmeal, sprinkled in, until it is rather thick, when boil it slowly for half an hour. Turn it out into a soup-plate, and eat it with milk, or treacle, or butter and salt.BLANC-MANGES. 49 PEARL BARLEY JELLY, OR PORRIDGE, Wash some pearl barley well, and steam it with a little water (changing it once or twice) until the grain is quite soft. Rub it through a sieve, and eat the jelly like the oatmeal stiff' porridge. FLUMMERY, OR SOWANS JELLY. Boil for some time any quantity of oatmeal or groats, or even the husks of grain after thrash- ing (though of this a larger quantity is required), with hot water, and put it away for several days, until it becomes sour, when add more hot water, and strain it through a hair sieve. Leave the water to rest until there is a white flour de- posited. Pour the water off it, and wash the flour with cold water. It may be dried; and when used, boil it with water, stirring it as it boils, and it becomes jelly. It is as nourishing as arrow-root, and may be flavoured and eaten in the same way. ♦ BLANC-MANGE. Take some calf's-foot stock, or gelatine, or isinglass, in the proportion of two ounces to three half-pints of water of the two latter. When dissolved, add a pint of milk, and strain E50 THE invalid's OWN BOOK. it. Flavour and sweeten it to the taste, and let it boll up once. Turn it into a mould, like jelly, if it is to look well. ARROW-ROOT BLANC-MANGE. Mix arrow-root in the usual way, only using three times more than you would do for gruel. Add milk and flavouring. Sweeten to the taste, and simmer it till thick enough for a mould. Turn it out like blanc-mange. 4 RICE BLANC-MANGE. Boil as much ground rice in a pint of milk as will make it thick enough to turn out of a mould like the above, sweetening and flavom-ing it to the taste. A sauce can be added of milk, cream, or any of the invalid custards named in this book. SAGO BLANC-MANGE Is made the same way, washing first the sago in several waters. ♦ TAPIOCA BLANC-MANGE Is made the same way, washing the tapioca, and using less of it.SOMERSETSHIRE FIRMITY. 51 SOMERSETSHIRE FIRMITY. Wash a quart of wheat, and boil it soft; add to it hj degrees two quarts of new milk, break- ing up the jelly in which the wheat is in when cold. Boil it till it is soft and mixed, and then add the yolks of a few eggs, well beaten, after cooling it. Add nutmeg, with sugar and a little ginger, if liked. Currants ought to be added, or chopped raisins; but they are omitted here as improper for invalids.52 THE invalid's OWN BOOK. DIET OF A MORE SOLID NATURE. MACCAKONI BOILED. Put some maccaroni into a saucepan with cold water, and let it simmer, not iDoil, gently, until quite soft. It takes some hours to become fit for an invalid. Take it out of the hot water, and throw it into cold water, which prevents its breaking. Eat it with warm milk and sugar, or salt and butter. —f—- POLENTA BOILED. Boil polenta flour in water until it is quite soft, like rice. Eat it with salt and butter, or milk and sugar. This is very nutritious. SWEET HOMINY. Grind Indian corn, but not into meal, or polenta flour (as it is then called), but leave the grains the size of rape seed. Sift off" the flour through a cullender, shaking the grains from it. A^ash53 MOEE SOLID DIET. them. Add one pint of grains to two of water. Boil briskly twenty minutes, skimming it. Steam it by the fire after pouring oif the water, and eat it like the preceding, or with treacle. EICE TO BOIL. Wash half a pound in several waters, to clean it. Set a few quarts of water on the fire to boil, and when it boils put in the rice, which boil seven or eight minutes, after which dry it; then put it into a covered vessel, and set it by the fire to dry and swell, shaking it now and then for twenty minutes. It may be eaten with salt and butter, milk, or treacle. EICE AND APPLE. Prepare the rice as above, or in milk, in which a smaU piece of butter may be added. Stew some apples soft, after paring them, adding sugar and mashing them. Put them in a hollow mould, and fill it up with the rice, having slightly greased it. Turn it out. —-< PRUNES AND RICE. Prepare and use both the ingredients in the same way. Prunes are improved by the addition of a small quantity of treacle. £ 354 THE invalid's OWN BOOK. EOASTED APPLES. Mark the apples round and round, as if you were going to peel them. This prevents them bursting, and looks nice. Roast them, and sift sugar over them. ♦ PAEADISE APPLES. Mark them round and round as the pre- ceding. Scoop out the cores and fill them with grated lemon-peel, a little of the juice, and sugar, and roast them. ♦ APPLES AND CUSTARD. Boil the apples; drain them; put them on a dish, and cover them with any of the invalid's custards named in this book. —♦— BAILED PEARS. Put into a pint of water some mace, cinnamon, and a few cloves; boil them ; add a pint of white wine and the juice of two Seville oranges, and sweeten with loaf sugar. Cut some baking pears into halves or quarters ; put them into the syrup, and then into a moderately heated oven, or into a saucepan on the fire. Cover them and cook them till soft. Serve them with the liquor. They will55 MORE SOLID DIET. keep in jars, and are improved in appearance by tlie addition of a little Alkanet root. STEWED APPLES. Skin some apples, and stew them in syrup flavoured with lemon peel, and a small quantity of the lemon. E 456 THE invalid's own book. PUDDINGS. BREAD PUDDING. Boil a small piece of cinnamon in a pint of new milk, with a little lemon peel. Let it cool: add sugar, the yolks of two eggs well beaten, and two ounces of bread crumbs. Chopped currants, or chopped stoned/aisins, may, if allowed, be added. ANOTHER. Spread thin slices of bread and butter to the quantity of an ounce and a half. Beat two yolks of effo-s, and add them with seven table spoonfuls of new milk and sugar, and flavourmg to the taste. Pour it on the slices in a dish, and bake it in a cool oven, or boil or steam it. ANOTHER. Pour a pint of boiling milk over half a pound of crumbs of bread, and leave it to soak. Whisk57 PUDDINGS. till very light the yolks of two eggs, add all together with a very little salt and sugar, and flavouring, and boil or steam it half an hour in a basin. —♦ ANOTHER BAKED. Make the pudding as before, laying at the bot- tom of a dish a small quantity of stewed apple or sweetmeat, and bake it. BREAD-AND-BUTTER PUDDING. Make three slices of bread and butter. Butter a baking dish, and lay it in a few stoned and chopped raisins, and then the slices alternately. Beat three eggs with about three quarters of a pint of new milk; add flavouring to the taste, and half a nutmeg grated, and a very little salt, and three slices of bread and butter on the top, and bake it. ♦ MUFFIN PUDDING. Boil a pint of milk eight minutes with a few carraway or coriander seeds, lemon peel, or orange peel, and sugar. Strain oiFthe milk, and mix it while hot with a few light teacakes ; add cinnamon or nutmeg, and a glass of brandy, and a quarter of a pound of dried preserved cherries. Bake it.THE invalid's OWN BOOK. 58 BISCUIT. PUDDING. Grate some biscuits, pour a pint of boiling milk upon tbem, in which some lemon peel, nut- meg, and coriander seeds have been boiled and strained out; add the yolks of three or four eggs and a little flavouring or brandy, and bake it. WHOLE EICE PUDDING BAKED. Wash some rice; simmer two table-spoonfuls with a very little butter in a pint and a half of milk. If it is required stiff, two or three eggs beaten may be added. Sugar and flavouring must be put in whilst the milk is boiling. Bake it and boil it. GEOUND EICE PUDDING BAKED. To a pint and a half of new milk add a few cori- ander seeds, a stick of cinnamon, some lemon peel, and sugar. After baking it, boil twelve minutes, strain it upon two ounces of groun rice, and boil it twelve minutes. Add three quarters of an ounce of fresh butter, a very little salt, and three eggs well beaten; pour it into a dish. Bake or boil it.PUDDINGS. 59 BAELEY FUDDINa May be made in the same way, substituting barley flour for rice flour. MILLET PUDDING May be made in tbe same way as whole rice. COWSLIP PUDDING. Add a quart of chopped cowslip flowers to a biscuit pudding, in the proportion of half a pound of grated biscuit to three pints of new milk boiled with sugar, to be flavoured with lemon peel or orange-flower water, and the yolks of three eggs well beaten, added when the substance is cool. To be baked or boiled. MIXED PUDDING. To a pound of biscuit in powder, or the same quantity of flour, add a pint of new milk and four eggs well beaten; flavour with orange- flower water, cinnamon, or ginger, and sweeten to the taste. The flour or biscuit should be sprinkled in, slowly stirring it aU the time, to prevent its getting into lumps.60 THE invalid's OWN BOOK. CUSTARD PUDDING. Beat three eggs with a little orange-flower water, and mix them with a pint of new milk in which a few bitter almonds have been baked. Butter a pudding mould, and pour in the mix- ture. Boil or steam it twenty-five minutes. ANOTHER, QUICKLY MADE. Beat an egg in a teacup, and fill it with milk; add a very little salt, and boil it until it is solid, which it will soon be; eat it with sugar or cur- rant jelly; but it is longer in cooking if the sugar is added before boiling. MACCARONI PUDDING. Wash two ounces of maccaroni; let it soak a quarter of an hour; dry it. Boil a pint and a quarter of new milk with a few bitter almonds, and half an ounce of butter once up, and then add the maccaroni; simmer it till tender, adding sugar to the taste. Bake or boil it. VERMICELLI PLTDDING. Boil a pint of milk with a few bitter almonds, and a little nutmeg or cinnamon. When thePUDDINGS. 61 vermicelli is quite soft, add sugar and two or three eggs well beaten. Bake, boil, or steam it. TAPIOCA PUDDING Is made the same way. A small lump of butter is an improvement. SAGO PUDDING. Wash the sago in several waters, and proceed in the same way. HASTY PUDDING. Set some new milk on to boil with a few bitter almonds, lemon peel, or three or four bay leaves; add a very little salt. Take out the leaves, and when the milk is cool add two eggs well beaten. Set it on to boil, and sprinkle in flour lightly through a sieve, stirring and rub- bing it well. Sweeten to the taste. It is better to strain it to be sure there are no lumps. CASSAVA FLOUE PUDDING. Soak a Cassava cake in water till soft; add a quarter of a pound of butter, and a little sugarTHE invalid's OWN BOOK. 62 and spice, the yolks of five eggs well beaten, and the whites of three, a little brandy, and a bitter almond; flavour with rose water. OATMEAL PUDDING. Steep a pint of oatmeal in a quart of boiled milk over night. Next morning mix it with half a pound of beef suet shred fine; add salt and grated nutmeg ; add three eggs beaten, and a quarter of a pound of raisins stoned and chopped, and sugar to the taste. Tie it up, and boil it two hours, and serve with a simple sauce. —♦— PLAIN SUET PUDDING. Take six spoonfuls of flour, a pound of beef suet sliced fine, a tea-spoonful of ginger powder, a pinch of salt, and a quart of milk. Mix first, the eggs and flour with part of the milk thick, and the rest with the suet. Four eggs are an im- provement if allowed. Boil two hours, leaving the pudding room to swell in the bag, or it will be heavy. This pudding will agree when little or no other food will digest. —♦63 PUDDINGS. VEAL SUET PUDDING. Pour two quarts of boiling milk upon the crumb of three jDenny rolls. Melt one pound of veal suet, and add that; add a few chopped raisins, and sugar to the taste, with half a nutmeg: three or four eggs may be added if allowed. Boil or bake it; if the latter, butter the dish. ANOTHER, OR DUMPLING. Make alight paste of a pint of milk, four eggs, a pound of suet, a little salt and nutmeg, two tea- spoonfuls of ginger powder, and some flour; form it into dumplings, and roll them in a little flour. Put them into a pan of boiling water. Move them gently to prevent them sticking. In rather more than half an hour they are done. CALF'S FOOT PUDDING. Mince some calf's feet fine, taking off the brown and fat part. Slice a pound and a half of suet without skin. Beat the yolks of six eggs and four whites. Take the grated crumb of half a penny roll, and a few chopped raisins; add sugar, and as much milk as wiU moisten it. Boil it nine hours, and serve with any simple sauce.64 THE invalid's OWN BOOK. MARROW PUDDING. Take a pint of new milk boiled with cinnamon and lemon-peel, and a small pinch of salt, quarter of a pound of beef marrow chopped fine, some slices of citron and orange-peel, grated nutmeg, and half a pound of sponge cake, a little sugar, a glass of wine or brandy and two eggs. Bake it; or put the ingredients into a dish without the eggs, and fill it up with some of the plain custard named in this book, and then bake it. OMLET SOUFFLE. Take six eggs; whisk the whites and yolks separately until they are in a strong froth; add to the yolks a spoonful of flour and a little sugar, and any approved flavouring; then whisk all weU together. Butter a dish, and bake it in a hot oven. Loosen it from the dish ; sift sugar over it whHst in the oven. It should rise very high. ANOTHER. Prepare the ingredients like the last. Butter a pan, and warm it on the fire, and make it into pancakes thicker than the common sort. Turn it on a dish, sift sugar over, or spread a little sweetmeat on it, and proceed with another m thePUDDINGS. 65 same way, until there are four or five. Sprinkle sugar or frothed white of egg on the top, and serve. SPONGE PUDDING. The weight of two eggs in butter, the same in flour, and the same in sugar. Beat the butter to a cream, and add the rest with any kind of ap- proved flavouring. Bake them in little moulds twenty minutes. Serve with arrow-root sauce flavoured with jelly or wine. DUTCH GAUrFEES. Make a paste with one pound and a half of flour, and a quarter of an ounce of yeast, and a little tepid water. Let it rise ; add a smaU quan- tity of salt, one pound of butter, and six eggs well beaten, with orange-flower water, or any other flavouring. Work it all together into a batter, with milk or cream, and let it rise. Heat the gauflre tongs; pour it in them. Cook them till light brown, and sift sugar over. —♦— BOILED EGGS. For an invalid an egg should never be boiled longer than two minutes and a half.66 THE invalid's OWN BOOK. It is said an egg is equal in nourishment to a quarter of a pound of meat. —♦ POACHED EGGS. Boil water with a very little vinegar in it. When you break the egg keep it together neatly in the shell before you turn it into the pan. It takes about two minutes to poach. Lay it upon a piece of toasted bread, and serve it hot.BKOTHS. 67 F 2 BEOTHS AND SOUPS. WELSH BEOTH. Fry some bread and vegetables in meat dripping, and pour boiling water upon it. Add herbs, and salt, and seasoning. FRENCH CABBAGE BROTH. Boil two pounds and a half of bacon in a gallon of water. Add a turnip, two or three carrots, two or three onions, a little celery, and sweet herbs. Cut the vegetables into long pieces. Stew it all together slowly some hours, when add sea- soning, and a sn.aU quantity of brown sugar. The broth may be coloured with it: if allowed, pour it upon toasted bread. BROTH WITHOUT MEAT. Fry any kind of vegetables with onion and a tie drippmg or butter, having previously cut 3m mto slices. Add seasoning and salt. Pour68 THE invalid's own book. water upon it, stew it, and keep skimming it. Add a little vermicelli or rice. ANOTHER. Boil a quart of water with half a handful of sorrel leaves, and a small quantity of chervil, and two lettuces cut. Add any other sweet herbs which are approved, and some salt and seasoning. Simmer it a short time in a covered pan, and strain it off. This is often taken in France cold. GOURD BROTH. Boil some slices of gourd, and pass it through a sieve. Add some milk and water, equal quanti- ties, a small quantity of butter, and some salt and pepper, and a little sugar. ANOTHER. Boil some milk with the whites of a few eggs, four whites to a pint; add a very little butter, and a little salt. Pour it upon toast laid in the dish, or upon the crust of a loaf.BROTHS. 69 F 3 BEEP TEA. Sprinkle with salt half a pound of rump steak, cut into slices, put into a large jug or basin, pour a pint of boiling water on it, and cover it; letting it stew for an hour on the hob. Put it all together into a pan, and boil it twenty minutes, and strain it. More water can be added afterwards. 4 GRAIN SOUP WITHOUT MEAT. Fry in dripping or butter some carrots, turnips, and onions cut in small pieces or dice. Add water and rice. Boil all together until the rice is quite tender, about an hour and a half. Add salt, pepper, and sweet herbs. Skim off the fat. Add some toasted bread cut in dice. FOWL TEA. Cut the skin and all the fat both outside and inside from a smali fowl after you have cut it up. Remove the liver, and the parts which adhere to the backbone. Put it into about a quart of water, with a pinch of salt, and let it stew by the fire in a covered jug from four or five hours, or more, and strain off the broth. An old fowl is the best. ♦THE invalid's OWN BOOK. 70 VEAL TEA Is mucli the same as beef tea. Using the leanest part of veal, and using a pound of meat to a pint and a half of boiling water. Cut it into pieces first. This is rather longer cooking than beef tea. If the end part of the knuckle is used, it will become jelly, and will keep longer if tied down in a cool place, and can be reduced, when used, to the taste of the invalid. MUTTON TEA Is made the same as beef tea. Cut a pound of lean mutton into small pieces, and stew it in a pint and a half of boiling water. Barley or rice can be added, if approved. —¥— CHICKEN BEOTH. Make this as directed for fowl tea, but add rice, or barley, or vermicelli, with celery and parsley, or parsley-root. It is rendered more nourishing by adding, whilst cold, the yolk of an egg beat up in a little of the broth before it is put into it. A BROTH. Put some lean be«f, veal, and mutton shank into a covered jug with as much water as willBROTHS. 71 F 4 cover them. Stew them by the side of the fire, or in the oven, until all is quite tender. Add salt, and any herbs approved. Dilute to the taste of the patient. ANOTHER, SOON MADE. Cut the fat off a few bones of loin or neck of mutton, and set them to stew in a covered jug, with three quarters of a pint of water, after having beaten and crushed them. Add onion, salt, and sweet herbs. Give it a boil. When cold, skim it. ANOTHER. Boil two pounds and a half of lean meat in two quarts of water, with salt and a large hand- ful of chervil till reduced to half the quantity. Add any other herbs or roots, and boiled rice in barley. Skim off the fat. ANOTHER. Put into a covered vessel, with three quarts of water, a knuckle of veal, or a shoulder, with very little meat on it. Cut up an old fowl, clean it from fat, bruise it, cut it up, and add that. Then add some shank-bones of mutton bruised,72 THE invalid's OWN BOOK. a few small onions, or one large one, a few blades of mace, peppercorns, and sweet herbs, and a piece of bread. Stew until all the good- ness of them is in the broth. Skim it. —♦ ANOTHER. Put one pound of mutton, one of veal, and two of beef, cut and beaten, into a covered vessel with four or five quarts of water, with sweet herbs, seasoning, and roots, and let it stew till nearly half the quantity is consumed. CALF'S FOOT BROTH. Boil three calf's feet in a gallon of water to half; when cold, take off the fat, and keep the jelly for use. When you wish to make the broth, take a cup-full, and add a small quan- tity of wine, nutmeg, and salt, and, if approved, sugar ; stirring it quickly, but do not let it boil. A very little butter and the yolk of an egg is an improvement. —♦— ANOTHER. Boil two calf s feet, two ounces of veal, and two of beef or mutton, in three quarts of water,73 BEOTHS. with seasoning, a little salt, and any herbs ap- proved. Add a crust of bread, reduce it to half, and, when cold, skim it. ♦ PLAIN MUTTON BROTH, WITHOUT VEGETABLES. Break the bones of a pound and a half of neck of mutton, and boil it in three pints of water, with a little salt, and a few peppercorns, if allowed. When cold, skim off the fat. ANOTHER, MORE SAVOURY. Break the bones of a pound of neck of mut- ton, and put it into a covered pan with some salt, and three pints of water, half a small onion, a little parsley root or celery, a turnip, and a little brown sugar. Simmer it till reduced like the preceding broths; let it go cold, and skim off the fat. Vermicelli, or pearl- barley may be added, and the meat and vege- tables are very good, if the patient is permitted to eat them. ANOTHER. Make your broth first, according to any of these recipes, and strain it. Add a few spoon-74 THE invalid's OWN BOOK, fuls of rice or vermicelli, and set it on the fire again, boiling it until these are tender, which will be in about a quarter of an hour. ANOTHER, WITH EICE. Put a large spoonful of rice into a stewpan, with some water, and a small piece of butter. Let it stew till quite soft. Strain it, and pour your broth upon it. ANOTHER, WITH SEMOLINE. Make this in the same manner as the preceding. ♦ ANOTHER, WITH ARROW-ROOT. Mix the arrow-root in a little cold broth, and add it to rest whilst boiling; SOUP (DR. JEPHSON). Cut into pieces a pound of lean veal, the same of beef, with as much water as will cover them, and put it into an earthen jar. Tie it down, and simmer it in a pan of water for twenty-four hours. Add salt. ——♦ * »I BROTHS. 75 ESSENCE OF MEAT, OR GLAIZE. Put two pounds of meat, of any kind of bird or animal, into a bottle with neck sufficiently wide to admit it, and put it into a pan of water on the fire until it boils. Let it boil about a quarter of an hour, and strain it. If this is put into a skin, like a black pudding, it will keep a long time, and can be diluted at any time for broths, gravies, or soups. EEL BROTH. Simmer half a pound of eels with three pints of water, some parsley root or sweet herbs, peppercorns, and salt. When no more good can be obtained from the fish, strain it. Take off the fat. TENCH BROTH Is made the same way as the eel broth. They are both very nutritious. BARLEY BROTH. Wash a quarter of a pound of pearl barley, and boil it in a quart of water till it is as soft as pos- sible. Add a few sweet herbs, and a little salt. Strain it.THE invalid's OWN BOOK. 76 MUTTON SHANK . JELLY (LAIT DE POULE). Beat up an egg until it is in a high froth, and fill the basin up with broth. Serve with toast. This is very light and nutritive. ♦— MUTTON SHANK JELLY, OR SOUP. Clean well twelve shanks of mutton. Put them into four quarts of water with onion, salt, pepper, and sweet herbs, and some bread crust, until reduced to half; or put them into a covered jug in an oven. Strain off the soup, and after taking off the fat when cold, it is fit for use. PORK SOUP OR JELLY (DR. RADCLIFFE). Cut up and break the bone of a leg of pork : simmer it gently in three gallons of water till reduced to one. Let half an ounce of nutmeg, and the same of any other spice, stew in it. Strain it; take a cup of the broth three times in the day. ♦— VEAL SOUP, OR JELLY (DR. JEPHSON). Slice a pound of lean veal very thin; put it into a covered vessel, with layers of sliced turnip, alternately meat and turnip. Add one teacup-BROTHS. 77 ful of water and a little salt; place it in a pan of water, and simmer it three or four hours, or do it in the oven. When cold it will be a jelly, and may be taken in that way, or warmed into soup. It is very nutritious. FOWL JELLY OE SOUP. Skin and cut in pieces an old fowl; break the bones ; put it into an earthen pan with a cup of water, and simmer it some hours, either in the oven, or in a pan of water. Add salt and strain it. To be eaten either as jelly or warmed into soup. PARTRIDGE OE PHEASANT JELLY, OE SOUP. Skin and cut in pieces two large old partridges or one pheasant. Fry it with a small quantity of butter, or bacon-fat, onions, celery, and salt. When quite done, pour three quarts of boiling water upon it, and stew it in a covered vessel in a pan of water on the fire, or in an oven three hours. Strain off this soup. COW-HEEL JELLY. Split a cow's heel and boil it in broth till quite soft. Stew an old fowl, cut in pieces.78 THE invalid's OWN BOOK. with some veal and beef or mutton, without water, in a covered jug placed in a pan of boil- ing water, or in an oven, for some hours. Then add some good broth, sweet herbs, and a bay- leaf and some salt, and let it stand again all to- gether, when add the cow's heel cut into small pieces. Bread and vegetables may be added. The hard meat is best strained out, and the cow-heel left in to be eaten. ♦— ASPIC JELLY. Boil in vinegar a handful of tarragon and chervil. When it tastes sufficiently strong, add ' some jelly of white meat or poultry reduced. Season it to the taste, and clarify it. When you have made the aspic to your taste, add the whites of four or five eggs whisked light. Stir them on the fire constantly in the boiling aspic. When it becomes white it is near boil- ing ; cover it and set it by the side of the fire or on a stove. When it is quite clear, strain it through a jelly-bag with sweet jelly. If you wish it as jelly, and you do not find it when cold sufficiently stiff to turn out of a mould, add more calf's foot stock.BROTHS. 79 SIPPETS. When the stomach cannot bear meat, toast some slices of bread, lay them on a hot plate, and pour hot meat gravy upon them. Add salt to the taste. MAEROW TOAST. Boiled marrow spread upon toast with a little salt added. This has never been known to fail in allaying vomiting proceeding from irritation after an emetic, or from other causes. And the effect is the same upon animals of the dog and cat species—only given without the toast; but melted and poured down the throat when just warm, in the quantity of about half a tea-spoonful. SAVOURY RICE. Boil rice very light, as directed, and add some good meat gravy, warming all together. Add salt, and serve it hot. SAVOURY MACCARONI Boil maccaroni as directed, and add gravy the same as you would do to the savoury rice.80 THE invalid's OWN BOOK. FOWL PANADA. Pound the meat of a fowl that has been boiled, but not quite done enough, in a mortar until it is in a fine paste. Add a little of the water in which it was boiled ; flavour with lemon, salt, and nut- meg, or other spice; and boil it a few minutes. —♦— CALF'S FOOT BAKED. Put two calf's feet into the oven with two pints of water, and the same quantity of new milk in a jar; cover it close, and bake it till quite soft. This is very easy of digestion.FISH. 83 6 FISH. WHITINGS BOILED. Put your whitings into a pan or fish-kettle of boHing water, holding about two quarts, with an ounce of salt in it. Simmer them gently for ten minutes. When they are cooked sufficiently, they leave the bones easily. WHITINGS BROILED. When you have cleaned your whitings, dredo-e them lightly with flour; also the gridiron Broil them on a clear fire ; not near enough to discolour them. Turn them three or four times. Ihey feel firm when sufficiently broiled. Laro-e fish take about a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes Sprinkle a little salt upon them. Serve with melted butter, and a little mustard. It allowed, rubbed into it.82 THE invalid's own book. WHITINGS ANOTHER WAY. Melt a small quantity of butter in a frying-pan. Flour lightly your whitings, and cook them gently in it, until they are sufficiently done. Sprinkle a little salt over them; do not let them be greasy. WHITINGS, WITH CRUIMBS. Dredge the whitings lightly with flour, then egg them with a brush, and dip them into grated bread. Fry them lightly in butter previously melted in the frying-pan, or in salad oil. SOLES OR FLOUNDERS IN CUTLETS. These may be done in any of the preceding ways; but they require rather longer time to cook. SMELTS OR SPARLINGS. Take a few large smelts, throw them into a stew-pan with a pinch of sugar, and the same of salt, with a little parsley-root or parsley. Keep them covered, and simmer them from five to ten minutes, according to the size of the smelts. The water in which they were boiled may be served with them. It should not be more than half a pint in quantity.83 FISH. SaiELTS OR SPARLINGS, ANOTHER WAY. Mix in a small quantity of cold water or broth, a little prepared potato-flour or arrow-root, and proceed as above. It makes a good sauce, or broth to the fish. SMELTS OR SPARLINGS BROILED. Dredge them lightly with flour, and broil them on a gridiron over a slow fire. Sprinkle them with salt, and serve with fried parsley. FISH IN WATER (DUTCH WAY). Clean and wash some perch, or dace, or floun- ders. Put into a stew-pan some parsley-root, salt, a bunch of parsley, and some pepper-corns and water. Boil for half an hour gently. Take out the parsley-leaves and put in fresh ones. Put in the fish and simmer them till done. Count out the peppercorns, that none remain. Serve fish and liquor together, in a deep dish, io be eaten with brown bread and butter. -4 OYSTERS OR COCKLES WITH RICE. Boil rice very tender, as directed. Take the hard parts and beards from oysters, and mix the84 THE invalid's OWN BOOK. soft part of the fish with the rice, adding the liquor. Warm all together, and serve. Cockles can be done in the same manner ; but they are not so digestible. FISH AND EICE, OR KEDGEREE. Boil a breakfast cup of whole rice till soft; chop a boiled haddock, or any other white fish, into pieces ; take out all the bones ; add to the fish the rice, with three ounces of butter. Stir all gently on the fire, and add salt and cayenne pepper. It must be served dry and hot. Some hard boiled eggs, chopped, ought to be added, if not objectionable to the invalid. COD SOUNDS BOILED. Scald, clean, and rub them with salt. Wash them and set them on the fire in a pan of water till tender. Melt some butter with flour, — add salt, mustard, and a little brown gravy, — which pour over the sounds. COD SOUNDS, ANOTHER WAY. Prepare them as above, and stew them in white gravy, thickening it with a little arrow-root or flour, and then gently beating it up. Season with salt and pepper, if allowed.I FISH. 85 A FISH PUDDING. Pound some cold fish in a mortar, with a few spoonfuls of broth, till it is in a paste. Add a small lump of butter, and some crumbs of grated bread. Mix it with the yolks of four eggs, well beaten, and strain it through a sieve. Put it into a basin, with the whites of the egg^ well beaten. Put it into a souffle dish, or mould, into an oven, and bake it. O 3THE invalid's OWX BOOK. 86 MEATS. FOWL PUDDING OE PASTE. Take the meat of a young fowl, after having taken off the skin and sinews, and pound it very- fine in a mortar; then soak some light bread in broth or milk; and boil a calf's udder and pound that also. Then make the three ingredients into separate balls of the same size. Take a ball of each, and make it into one, seasoning it, and adding three eggs to the whole mixture. Have ready boiling water, throw in the pudding, and poach it like an egg. SWEETBEEADS. Boil them slowly, and serve with salt and pep- per, if allowed. —♦— ANOTHEE WAT. Boil them first, and then dry them, and broil them on a gridiron a light broAvn.MEATS. 87 TRIPE Boil some tripe and onions in two different waters, then boil both together until the tripe is very soft and tender. Eat it with salt, pepper, and melted butter. Tripe is very easy of digestion. TRIPE, ANOTHER WAY. Boil it tender; grate some bread, and sprinkle it with crumbs and yolk of egg, and broil it a light brown. Season it to the taste. TRIPE, WITH ONION SAUCE. Boil it, and serve it with onion sauce. TRIPE IN BATTER. Boil it, and fry it in batter. i ^ FOWL, WITH RICE. Free a young fowl from all the skin outside and inside, also from all the fat and sinews. Simmer it in good strong broth, or meat tea until it is quite tender, and add salt. Boil rice as directed, add it to the liquor, and dish it up with the fowl. 0 4THE invalid's OWN BOOK. 88 FOWL, WITH MACCAKONI. Cook the fowl in the same way, and substitute maccaroni for rice. MINCED MEAT IN MACCARONI. Boil maccaroni; cut it in slips the depth of your mould ; lay it in so as to form a covering inside the mould; then add the minced meat prepared and seasoned, and steam or boil it. The mould must be first greased, or it will not turn out well. PARTRIDGE ROASTED. Partridges are roasted the same way as chickens; a young one will not require more than ten minutes to cook. To be eaten with bread sauce. —♦— PIGEONS ROASTED. They may be done the same way, only they do not take so long to cook. —♦— PIGEONS STEWED. Truss a pigeon as for boiling, and stew it in half a pint of mutton broth for about twenty minutes.MEATS. 89 PIGEONS BEOILED. Cut hem open, and broil them lightly, or dip them in grated crumbs and egg before boiling. Chopped herbs may be added. —♦— CHICKEN ROASTED. After having drawn and trussed neatly your chicken, set it before a clear fire, and let it roast five or six minutes. Then with a little butter in a spoon rub the chicken all over. The fire must not be too brisk, as it should not colour it more, than a light yellow. In about a quarter of an hour a light smoke will rise from it, which shows it is done enough; but if you are not quite sure, press it lightly with your finger and thumb, and if it feels solid you may remove it from the fire. POTTED FOWL. Take with a fork all the meat off cold roasted or boiled fowl; put it into a stew-pan; then in another pan put all the bones beaten small into half a pint of water, some seasoning, parsley, and a little onion, if approved. When the liquor is half reduced, strain it, and add it to the meat, with a little flour and butter rubbed together, a little salt, and a pinch of sugar. Boil it two90 THE invalid's own BOOK. minutes. If it is too thick, add more water or thin broth. —— FOWL BOILED. Put the fowl into a pan with a pinch of salt, a quart of water, an ounce and a half of butter, and simmer it a quarter of an hour if a small bird, and longer if it is a large one. If you add vegetables, you will have a nice nourishing broth, besides the fowl; and you can add to it rice, barley, or vermicelli, whichever is the most ap- proved. —♦— BEEF STEWED. Put a few pounds of beef into a stewpan with a quart of water; put it on the fire, and skim it as it boils; add some onion, turnip, carrot, and celery cut into small pieces. Stew it about two hours and a quarter, until the liquor is reduced to less than half. Serve the meat on a dish, the soup in a basin. Be particular about skimming the fat clean off. ♦ LAMB-CHOPS OR CUTLETS May be cooked in the same manner; but little more than half the time is required to cook them.MEATS. 91 LAMB'S FEET Are tigtly nutritive when properly cooked. Let them be well cleaned, and soaked for a quarter of an hour in boiling water; after which the principal bone will draw out readily. Put two into a stewpan with a pint of water, with a little flour rubbed into it, and a large pinch of salt. When on the fire stir them frequently, till they boil; add celery and parsley, and a little onion, and some peppercorns; and boil them slowly until they are quite tender. Serve them, after they are strained from the liquor, with melted butter or a plain white sauce. —♦— CALF'S FEET May be dressed in the same way, but, being larger and more tough, they require more boiling in double the quantity of water or broth. They must be as soft as possible. f— PIG'S FEET. After they are well cleaned, soak them for some hours. Boil them till quite tender, and afterwards boil them again in water with salt and vinegar. Dry them, and serve them in a cloth on a dish. The best sauce is melted butter, with a little sugar and vinegar in it.THE INVALID'S OWN BOOK. 92 MUTTON-CHOP PLAIN. Cut a chop from the lean side of a loin of mutton ; pare off the fat, and trim it neatly ; beat It well to make it tender, and then, with a clear fire, put it on the gridiron. Season it with pepper and salt, and after turning it several times whilst It is broiHng, press it, and if it feels ten- der. It is sufficiently cooked. Let the plate on which you serve it be very hot. ANOTHER. Cut your cutlet from the neck of mutton, trim it, and cook it like the preceding. BEEF-RUMP STEAK. Cut half a pound of steak from the most tender part of a rump of beef Beat it with a rolling- pin, and broil it on the gridiron. When ready to serve, sprinkle a little salt upon it. OX-TONGUE PRESH. Lay it in warm water for some hours, and clean it. Trim it neatly from all the fat, and lard it with a larding-pin in the thickest part;MEATS. 93 slightly skewer it, and put vegetables round it, tied on. Eoast it for two hours and twenty minutes; before it is done, remove the paper, so as to brown it. Serve it with any kind of plain vegetable. OX-TONGUE PICKLED. Set it on the fire in two gallons of cold water; when it boils, only simmer it for three hours; but the best way is to try with a fork if it is quite tender. A dried tongue requires at least to soak twenty-four hours before it is boiled. Before it is served, skin it. A tongue is best for an invahd fresh out of pickle. MEAT SANDWICHES. Grate some tongue, or meat that has been either roasted or boiled, and make it into sand- wiches of thin bread and butter, neatly cut. Mustard may be added, if allowed. EISH SANDWICHES Are made in the same manner, of any previously cooked fish grated, or in thin slices.94 THE invalid's OWN BOOK. VEGETABLE SANDWICHES Are made in the same way, substituting mustard and cress, or minced salad, flavoured with salad sauce of vinegar, mustard, salt, salad oil, or cream.PASTEY. 95 V PASTE Y. EICE PASTE FOR SAVOURY DISHES. Wash well some rice in several waters; then put it into a covered pan to simmer slowly, with water or milk, or milk only. Add salt; and when it is quite soft, mix an egg with it. Make as it were a wall round a dish, and place the meat inside, RICE PASTE FOR SWEETS. Boil in a small quantity of water a quarter of a pound of ground rice. Strain it, and beat it in a mortar quite fine, with one egg well beaten, half an ounce of butter, and a pinch of salt. Mould the paste as for tarts. POTATO PASTE. Pound boiled potatoes very fine, and add suf- ficient milk or butter to make them into a paste, with an egg. Keep the paste-board and96 THE invalid's OWN BOOK. roller floured to prevent it sticking; roll it to the thickness required, and bake it —f— BREAD CRUST. Scrape the inside out of a penny roll. Soak it in milk if intended to fill with sweets; if for sa- vouries, in gravy: for the former sprinkle with sugar; for the latter salt. Use a few grated crumbs and eggs for either, and bake it. —♦— GENEVESE PASTE. Take the same weight in unbroken eggs of themselves, flour, sugar, and butter. Beat the butter to a cream. Add the ingredients, with rasped and grated lemon peel, and a glass of brandy to keep it from rising. A pinch of salt is an improvement. Butter the tins slightly before you bake. It should be about a quarter of an inch thick. PLAIN SHORT CRUST. Ten ounces of fine flour rubbed in four ounces of flour, one egg, and an ounce of sugar in fine powder.BREADS. 97 BREADS, &c. BREAD (ENGLISH). Apter sifting a peck of flour into a trough, make a hole in the centre. Strain a pint of yeast through a hair sieve, mixed with a pint of water just warm. Stir into the yeast and water a small quantity of the flour, leaving it in the hole in the centre of the rest to prove if it will rise. Set it in a warm place for an hour, when you will see the effect. Afterwards, mix the whole with two quarts of lukewarm water, and a pinch of salt; and, after you have kneaded it to a proper thickness, try it again in an hour after. Then knead it again, and bake it in a brisk oven. A brick oven is the best. —-h— BREAD (FRENCH). Commence as for English bread ; but use milk instead of water with the yeast. When you have proved that it will rise, add two quarts of milk H98 THE invalid's OWN BOOK. just warm, half a pound of butter, a little salt, and an ounce of sifted loaf sugar. Knead all together well; in an hour prove it again, to be sure of its rising.- Make the dough into rolls, about the size of a brick; lay them in a warm place for about half an hour, and then bake them in a brisk oven. • —♦— BEEAD APPLE (SWISS). Rub into two pounds of flour some boiled apples that have been rubbed through a sieve. Do it whilst they are warm. Add the usual quantity of yeast, with very little water for this kind of bread. WHIGS. To three quarters of a pound of flour, add half a pint of warm milk, mixed in two or three spoon- fuls of yeast. Cover it, and set it before the fire to rise. Work into the paste four ounces of sugar, and a little salt, and four ounces of butter. Make it into small buns, with as little flour as possible. BUNS, PLAIN. Set five pounds of flour to rise, with a gill of yeast in a pint of warm milk. Afterwards mix^ 99 PASTRY. in a pound of sifted sugar, and the same quantity of melted fresh butter. Add a little salt, and a few coriander or caraway seeds, or cinnamon, nutmeg, or mace, in fine powder. Make the paste into buns, first rubbing the baking sheet with butter. Wash them over with a brush dipped in warm milk. ♦ CRACKNELS. Mix half a pound of best flour with half a pound of sifted sugar, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, two table-spoonfuls of rose-water, a little salt, and three eggs well beaten. Mix all to- gether well for twenty minutes. Roll and cut it into shapes. Rub a baking sheet with butter, and put them on, washing them over with white of egg- WAFERS. Beat for twenty minutes a table-spoonful of orange-flower water, with a table-spoonful of flour, and some sugar. Heat the wafer-tongs quite hot, pour in the mixture, and bake them over a slow fire, and roll them up. Place them in a dry warm place. ♦—- u 2THE invalid's OWN BOOK. 100 SPONGE CAlvES. Take the weight of nine eggs in finely powdered sugar, and the weight of eight in flour. Whisk the yolks and whites separately; melt the sugar in half a pint of water. Sprinkle the flour through a sieve into the eggs; add some essence of lemon, or the peel of a lemon grated fine, and bake in a brisk oven. This quantity makes three moulds, which take about three quarters of an hour to bake. The moulds should not be filled hio;her with the mixture than one third of the way. ♦— ANOTHER. Make the mixture the same way; but, instead of putting it into moulds, put it into small tins, which are bought for the purpose. — LADY'S FINGERS Are made with the same mixture, dropping it on a baking sheet. Sift sugar on them, and when baked stick two together whilst warm. A PLAIN CAKE. Set to rise half a gill of yeast in a little warm milk, two pounds of flour, four ounces of sugar.101 CAKES. half an ounce of caraway or coriander seeds, or spices. Afterwards work it with boiling milk, with five ounces of butter in it. Make it into a light paste, and let it remain some hours ; roll it out and cut it into any forms you like. —♦— KICE CAKE. Mix with three pounds of flour ten ounces of ground rice, a very little salt, and eight ounces of powdered sugar. Beat eight eggs (leaving out two whites), the yolks and whites separate ; add a little essence of lemon to the taste, or the grated peel of a lemon. Sift the flour and sugar slowly to the eggs; put it immediately into the oven in a tin or paper, allowing it a good deal of room to rise. Bake it forty minutes. —♦— GINGER ROCKS. Beat five eggs, leaving out one white, in three quarters of a pound of sifted sugar for half an hour; then slowly sprinkle in one pound of flour, after which do not beat them. Sift in an ounce of ginger in powder, and the rind of a lemon grated. Put the paste lightly together to look rocky. Bake in a moderate oven. H 3THE invalid's OWN BOOK. 102 BATH CAKES. Make the yolks of three eggs, a pint of warm milk, one spoonful of yeast, a quarter of a pound of butter, into a paste, with as much flour as will make it light; add a pinch of salt, and, if ap- proved, a little sugar. Let it stand an hour to rise, and bake it in tins. —♦— CODDENHAM BISCUITS. Rub an ounce of butter into a pound of flour, add a little salt, and beat it half an hour very hard with a rolling-pin, or a thick piece of wood. Take off separately the dough for each biscuit, and roll them as thin as possible. Prick them. Make the tins on which they are to be baked very hot, so as to half bake them before they go into the oven. —f-— TONBKIDGE WATER CAKES. One pound of flour, half a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, two ounces of caraway seeds. Rub the butter first well into the flour. Bake these, like the Coddenham biscuits, as thin as pos- sible, and cut them the size of a tea-cup. Prick them, and make the baking sheets quite hot, as before.BISCUITS. 103 HARD BISCUITS. Work a pound of flour into a stiff paste with two ounces of butter, and as much skim milk as will make it stiff; add very little salt; beat it with a rolling-pin till very smooth. Roll it thin, and cut it into round biscuits. Bake them five or six minutes. —♦— ' CRISP PLAIN BISCUITS. Knead well into a stiff paste a pound of flour, the yolk of an egg, and some milk; add a very little salt. When it is all quite smooth, cut it into biscuits. Bake them in a slow oven until they are crisp. 4 TEA BISCUITS. Rub six ounces of butter into a pound of flour ; add a little salt, and three large spoonfuls of yeast, with as much milk as wiU make the paste. Prick the biscuits, which are generally cut into long squares. ♦ ANOTHER KIND. Melt in warm milk a sufficient quantity of butter to make seven pounds of flour into a stiff paste. Cut out the biscuits and prick them. H 41U4 THE invalid's OWN BOOK. ANOTHER KIND. Half a pint of cream, one egg beaten, and a little salt; add sufficient flour to roll the paste very thin. Cut it into small biscuits with the top of a wine-glass. SHORT BISCUITS. One pound of flour, six ounces of butter, a tea- cupful of warm milk, and a table-spoonful of yeast. Let the paste rise; roll, and cut it into biscuits. ANOTHER KIND. Make a paste with milk, butter, and a little salt. Roll it as thin as possible, and bake it upon a bakestone, a flat piece of iron used in Yorkshire and Cheshire. MARATHON BISCUITS. Kub into a pound of flour three ounces of but- ter, a pinch of salt, and some sugar. Then make it into a paste with warm good milk, and a table- spoonful of yeast. Knead it quickly, and let it stand for an hour.105 BISCUITS. AMERICAN BISCUITS. Mix a quarter of a pound of butter with a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and half a pint of new milk warmed and poured gradually in. Melt half a tea-spoonful of salt of tartar in a tea-cupful of cold water; add it to the paste, and work it well. Roll it thin, and cut out the biscuits with a wine-glass. Bake imme- diately in a quick oven. —♦—- POTATO BISCUITS. Make a pound of flour into a paste, with half a pound of boiled potatoes rubbed through a sieve or cullender, a pinch of salt, and as much butter as will enable you to roll the paste out into rounds the size of a large saucer; and bake in a brisk oven. ♦ PATIENCE BISCUITS. Whip the whites of six eggs; add eight ounces of powdered sugar, and ten ounces of flour, and a lemon-peel rasped. Mix all with a wooden spoon. Slightly wax some baking sheets, and drop on the mixture in drops the size of a shilling when the tins are quite hot. Bake them in a brisk oven.THE invalid's OWN BOOK. EUSKS, OR TOPS AND BOTTOMS. To two eggs beaten add a pint of yeast and a little milk. Sift four pounds of flour, and set the paste to rise. Boil half a pound of butter in some milk, sufficient to make the dough stiff. Let it remain in the kneading trough till well risen. Knead it into loaves the size of small tea-cups, and bake them flat in a moderate oven. When nearly done, separate the tops from the bottoms; dry them in the oven a nice colour till crisp. BAKED CRUSTS. Pull into pieces the crumb of a new loaf. Put them in a baking plate, and set them in a mode- rate oven till crisp.107 SYRUPS. SYRUPS. SYRUP OF ROSES. Gather a pound of damask roses when the sun is hot upon them. Put them into a jug with a quart of boiling water ; cover them close, and let them remain seven hours. Strain off the water, and boil it on a hot fire, with the proportions of a pint of water to a pound and a half of loaf sugar till it is a rich syrup. Keep it well skimmed. You may clear it, if you wish it very fine, with whites of eggs. Bottle it, and cork it tight for use. —♦— SYRUP OF MULBERRIES. Add one pound of loaf sugar to each quart of strained juice. Boil it to a rich syrup, skimming it well. Bottle it when cold, and cork it tight for use. SYRUP OF ORANGE-FLOWERS. Make a rich syrup with orange-flowers in the same way. This is better clarified.THE invalid's OWN BOOK. SYRUP OF SAFFRON. Unravel half an ounce of English saffron, and put it into a pint of water or very light wine. Cover it, and let it stand near a fire, to be very hot, without boiling, for twelve hours. Strain off the liquor, and boil it with three pounds of loaf sugar until it is a rich syrup, keeping it well skimmed. When cold, bottle and cork it tio-ht. SYRUP OF LEMONS. Make a rich syrup with sugar and water; add the juice and rind of lemons to the taste whilst simmering; keep it skimmed. Bottle and cork it. It is better made fresh. It must be strained. SYRUP OF ORANGES. Make a rich syrup; add the juice of oranges and a small portion of the peel: a little of the peel of the Seville orange is an improvement. Strain it, and when cold bottle and cork it. —f-— Syrups can be made with the juice of any fruits in the same way as directed for mulberry syrup.SYRUPS. 109 RASPBEKRY VINEGAE. Lay a few quarts of raspberries in a dish, with about a pint of white-wine vinegar in them. After they have stood eight or nine days, strain off the liquor, and to every pint add a pound of loaf sugar. Boil it to a syrup. When cold bottle and cork it.110 THE invalid's OWN BOOK. CORDIALS. AMERICAN SHERRY COBBLER. Put into a large tumbler two tea-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, a few thin slices of lemon-peel, and a wine-glass and a half of sherry wine; fill the glass with pounded ice. —f— AMERICAN MINT JULEP. Put into a tumbler glass some powdered sugar, a bunch of spearmint, a wine-glass of sherry wine, the same quantity of brandy, and fill the tumbler with broken ice. H— BARLEY WINE. Add a pint of sherry wine to a quart of barley gruel. Boil it down until there is only one-third of the quantity left. Add any flavouring ap- proved, or a drachm of tincture of cinnamon. A tea-cupful several times in a day is very strengthen- ing. 4Ill CORDIALS. MULLED WINE. Boil some spices in water until the flavour is obtained. Add an equal quantity of port wine, with sugar, lemon-peel, and nutmeg to the taste. —♦— CYDEE CUP. Cut the rind of a lemon very thin; put it into a tea-cupful of boiling water; add a few lumps of sugar, a pint of Sherry or Madeira, a pint of Malaga, two bottles of cyder. Flavour with borage. —^— CLARET CUP. One bottle of light claret, one glass of brandy, one lemon peeled thin, half a pint of water, and sugar to the taste. Flavour with borage. —^— MILK PUNCH. Steep the rinds of eighteen lemons in a quart of rum three days, close covered. Add three more quarts of rum, with the juice of the lemons, five quarts of water, five pounds of sugar. To these add two quarts of boiling milk. Let the whole stand two hours, closely covered. Strain it through a jelly bag, and bottle it for use. Add a few bitter almonds.112 THE invalid's OWN BOOK, RUM PUNCH (DUTCH RECIPE). One sour (Lemon). Two sweet (Sugar). Four strong (Rum). Eight weak (Water). ♦ EGG WINE. Add three table-spoonfuls of cold water to three eggs beaten. Put into a pan on the fire a glass and a half of wine, with some sugar and nut- meg, and when it boils pour it very slowly by degrees upon the eggs, stirring it briskly. Set it on the fire again for a minute, or a minute and a half, stirring it; but it must not boil. Take it off, and pour it from one vessel to another to froth it. Serve it in glasses^ with dry toast hot. ♦ ANOTHER May be made shortly by beating up an egg and adding a glass of wine or brandy, with sugar and nutmeg. This need not be put on a fire.INGREDIENTS. 113 EXPLANATION OE INGREDIENTS USED. AEROW-EOOT. There are three kinds of this in use: West Indian, the produce of the plant Maranta arundinacea; East Indian, produced from the Curcuma angus- tifolia, a species of Turmeric; and the Brazilian, produced from the Manihot utilissima. The two former starches (for such they are) are prepared from the small tubers formed on the fibrous con- tinuation of the underground stem. Cooked as for food, only much thicker, it is a most efficacious emollient application for swellings as a poultice; and it is much used in this form by the West Indians to extract the poison from wounds. CACTUS VULGAEIS, A native of the tropics, called there prickly pear. I114 THE invalid's OWN BOOK. CAKAWAY SEEDS Are the seeds of the plant Carum carui, named from Caria, a province in Asia, where the plant is most abundant. It will grow in England. DiU- water is distilled from these seeds. •i ♦ 5 CAEDAMOM SEEDS Are the seeds of the Alpinia Cardamomum. In small quantities they are a good stomachic. —♦— CASSAVA JANIPHA Is the same tropic plant that produces tapioca. The root is washed, beaten, and care taken to ex- tract every particle of the natural juice, which is highly poisonous until it has been subjected to heat. The root is then pounded between rough boards by the natives, of whom it is the chief article of food. —♦— CINNAMON (LAURUS CINNAMOMUM). This tree is a native of tropical climates, and is much cultivated for the sake of its bark, which is the part used for cooking, &c. The greatest por- tion comes from the island of Ceylon, where, be- tween Negambo and Matura, there are extensive plantations.115 INGEEDIENTS. GINGER (ZINGIBER) Is the dried roots of the above plant, a native of tropical climates. GUM ARABIC (ARABICUM), So caUed from being supposed to come from Arabia, when the greatest quantities come from Africa. It is the gum which exudes from the Acacia vera. MACCARONI Is chiefly prepared in Italy; it is made from the finest flour, mixed with egg. It is also made in Sicily and Germany. NUTMEG (NUX MOSCHATA). Nutmegs are chiefly imported from the Spice Islands, although they will grow in Trinidad and other islands of the tropics. Mace is the outer husk adhering to the shell of the nutmeg, which is itself enclosed in an outer covering, exactly re- sembling a walnut. When prepared for exporta- tion, the outer covering is taken off, and the nut dipped into milk or wine, after being dried in the sun, which prevents the mace and nutmegs from being attacked by insects. I a116 THE invalid's OWN BOOK. PEPPER, BLACK (PIPEE NIGRUM) ; PEPPER, WHITE (PIPER DECORTICATUM), Are both obtained from the same plant, a native of the tropics. SAGO (CYCAS CIRCINALIS) Is the produce of the sago palm tree of the tro- pics. It grows underneath the leaves upon the bark. It is supposed by some to be the hardened gum of the tree; but it is always found in the same granular form in which it is imported to this country. SEMOLINA Is made from the finest wheat flour. SUGAR (SACCHARUM). The sugar in general use is chiefly extracted from the sugar-cane, a plant native of the West Indies, but now introduced into other tropical climates. Sugar is also made from the extracted juice of beet-root, mangel wurzel, some species of palms, and from the maple tree. Each kind will form white or lump sugar after being sub- j ected to the necessary process.117 INaREDlENTS, TAMARIND (TAMARINDUS). The tamarinds in use in this country are seed- pods (either in their natural state or made into a jam with sugar) of the tamarind tree, a native of ^tropical climates. —f— TAPIOCA(JANIPHA MANIHOT, NATIVE OF TROPICAL CLIMATES). The preparation in use is made from the beaten root, washed, and separated from the milky juice which flows from it. It is then dried on hot plates, when it takes a granular form. —^— VERMICELLI Is made from the same ingredients as maccaroni, but forced through a smaller pipe. THE END.London Printed by Spottiswoode & Co., New-street-Square.London: LONGMAN, BROWN, GREEN, and LONGMANS. acton's cookery-book thoroughly revised. New Edition, enlarged, with numerous Plates and Woodcuts (many additional) in fcp. 8vo. price 7s. 6c?. MODERN COOKERY FOR PRIVATE FAMILIES. Eeduced to a System of Easy Practice in a Series of carefully tested Eeceipts, in which the Principles of Baron Liebig and other eminent writers have been as much as possible applied and explained. By ELIZA ACTON. Newly revised and much enlarged Edition. OPINIONS OF TEE NEW EDITION. " This is indisputably the most copious and complete work that has yet met the lii'ht on the subject of cookery. Mrs. Rundell and her fair associates must all do homage to Miss Acton, who has provided a volume entitled to the lofty designation of an encyclopaedia. We have here no fewer than thirty-two chapters on soups, flsh, Bhellflsh, gravies, sauces, salads, forcemeats, boiling, roasting, &c.; beef, veal, mutton and lamb, pork, poultry,'game, potted meat3,!vegetables, pastry, omelets, boiled pud- dings, baked puddings, eggs and milk, sweet dishes, preserves, pickles, cakes, confec- tionery, dessert dishes, syrups, ooflfee, chocolate, bread, foreign and Jewish cookery, with a chapter on the mysteries of trussing ; to all which is added or prefixed a disi Bertation on carving, comprising no fewer than twenty-six cuts or plates, presenting the divers articles to be cut or carved, and the method of going about it. . • . The preparation of this volume may be viewed as the performance of a great public ser- vice. As to young ladies, they should make it their study : They will find more here that concerns the wife and mother than in all the romance with which the shelves of our circulating libraries groan." Beitish Bannbb. " A new and greatly enlargedledition of Eliza Acton's Cookery has just appeared,!em- bellished with numerous woodcuts, and enlarged by the addition of a great number o^ newfreceipts. We need not say that this is one of the most useful of our English publi- cations on domestic economy containing as it does all that the housekeepers or cooks of the middle classes can require to know. The authoress informs the public that in the present edition she has availed herself of the instructions upon cookery given by men of science, and especially by Baron Liebig ; we'can only express a hope that our cooks will appreciate the advice. Miss Acton adds what is of much more interest, thalt efforts are being made, by the establishment of well-conducted schools, for the early and eflicient training of our female domestic servants. Let us trust that her expec- tations may soon be realised, and that we sliall be provided with a race of cooks not too ignorant to use the good advice which they find in the many good cookery books now within everybody's reach. We would even commend the subject to the Board of Health, as one which most especially comes within their line of operation ; for it is of little use to purify the atmosphere we breathe until general health is improved by rendering what we eat conducive to nutrition rather than to indigestion. In no counti-y do better raw materials of food exist than in England ; nowhere can be found better flour, better.meat, better fish,better vegetables, we will even add better fruits. Nowhere in the world, notwithstanding these advantages, is to be found worse cookery than among tour middle classes. But we hope and believe that some improvement in this respect is beginning to take place, and I'above all that some serious attempt will be made to teach our lower orders how to economise) and best employ the materials of food which they possess. Had our peasantry been even de- cently taught the rudiments of good plain cooking, we should never have heard the heartrending tales of starvation at Scutari caused by the uneatable provisions sup- plied to our neglected troops. Gaedenek's Chroniclk.London i LONGM.^N, BROWK, GREEN, and LONGMANS. " The entire series has been edited with so much care, Hiat admission into the roll is almost a guarantee that the author has something to say on his subject, and can say it well." Tait's Magazike. THE TRAVELLER'S LIBRARY. In course of publication in Parts price One Sliilling each: Comprising books of valuable information and acknow- ledged merit, in a form adapted for reading -while Travel- ling, and also of a character that will render them worthy of preservation. Xiist of 95 PARTS, price One Sbillingr each, already published. 1. WARREN HASTINGS. By Thomas Babington Macaulat. Price One Shilling. 2. tORD CLIVE. By Thos. Babington Macaulat. Price Is. 3. LONDON in 1850 and 1851. By J. R. M'=Culloch, esq. Price One Shilling. 4. SIR ROGER DE COVERLET. Prom the Spectator. Notes and Illustrations by W. H. Wills. Price One Shilling. , 5. WILLIAM PITT and the EARL of CHATHAiL Two Essays by T. Babington Macaulay. Price One Shilling. 6. & 7. LAING'S JOURNAL of a RESIDENCE in NORWAY du- ring the Years 1834, 1835, and 1836. Price Two Shillings. 8. Mr. MACAULAY'S TWO ESSAYS on — 1. Ranke's History oj the Popes, and 2. Gladstone On Church and State. Price Is. 9. & 10. IDA PFEIFFER'S LADY'S VOYAGE ROUND the WORLD. A Condensed Translation by Mrs. Percy Sinnett. Price Two Shillings.The Traveller's Library. 3 London : LON.GMAJST, BROWN, GREEN, and LONGMANS. 11. & 12. EOTHEN, or Traces of Travel brought Home from the East. Price Two Shillings. 13. MR. MACATJLAY'S TWO ESSAYS on—1. Addison's Life and Writings, and 2. Horace Walpole. Price One Shilling. 14. & 15. HUC'S TRAVELS in TARTARY, THIBET, and CHINA. . A condensed Translation by Mrs. Percy Sinnett. Price Two Shillings.) 16. & 17. THOMAS HOLCROFT'S MEMOIRS, written by Himself and continued from his Diary and Papers. Price Two Shillings. 18. The EARL of CARLISLE'S LECTURES and ADDRESSES: Including the Lectures on Lord Carlisle's Travels in America, and on tli? Poetry of Pope. Price One Shilling. 19. & 20. WERNE'S AFRICAN WANDERINGS. Translated for the Traveller's Library by J. R. Johnston. Price Two Shillings. 21. & 22. MRS. JAMESON'S SKETCHES in CANADA and Rambles among the Red Men, Price Two Shillings. 23. BRITTANY and the BIBLE : With Remarks on the French People and their Affairs. By I. Hope. Price One Shillings. 24. The NATURAL HISTORY of CREATION. By T. Lindley Kemp, M. D. Author of Indications of Instinct. Price One Shilling. 25. LORD BACON. By Thos. Babington IklACAULAY. Price Is. 26. DR. GEORGE WILSON'S TWO ESSAYS — 1. Electricity and the Electric Telegraph, and 2. The Chemistry of the Stars. Price One Shilling. 27. & 28. JERRMANN'S PICTURES from St. PETERSBURG. Translated for the Traveller's Library by F. Hardman. Price 2s. 29. & 30. The LEIPSIC CAMPAIGN. By the Rev. G. R. Gleig, M.A. Chaplain-General of the Forces. Price Two Shillings. i 31. MEMOIR of the DUKE of WELLINGTON. Reprinted by permission from The Times newspaper. Price One Shilling.'4 The Traveller's Library. London: LONGMAN, BROWN, GREEN, and LONGMANS. 32. & 33. The AUSTRALIAN COLONIES : Their Origin and Present Condition. By William Hughes, F. R. G. S. Price Two Sliillings. 34. & 35. «m EDWARD SEA WARD'S NARRATIVE of his Ship- wreck and Adventures, abridged from the.3d Edition for the Traveller's Library. Price Two Shillings. 36. 1-ORD JEFFREY'S TWO ESSAYS on —1. Swift's Life and Writings : and 2. Richardson's Correspondence. Price One Shilling. 37. RANKE'S TWO ESSAYS on FERDINAND I. and MAXI- MIL!AN II. of Austria. Translated for the Traveller's Library by Lady Duff Gordon. Price One Shilling. 38. & 39. ALEXANDRE DUMAS' MEMOIRS of a IVLAITRE D'ARMES ; or, Eighteen Months at St. Petersburg. Translated for the Traveller's Library by the Marquis of Ormonde. Price Two Shillings. 40. MR. MACAULAY'S TWO ESSAYS on—1. Lord Byron and 2. The Comic Dramatists of the Restoration. Price One Shilling. 41. LIFE of MARSHAL TURENNE. B7 the Rev. T. Oswald Cockayne, M.A. Price One Shilling. 42. & 43. Our COAL FIELDS, and Our COALPITS; the People in them and the Scenes around them. By a Traveller Underground. Price Two Shillings. 44. MR. JOHN; BARROW'S TOUR on the CONTINENT of Europe by Rail and Road in the Summer of 1852. Price One Shilling. 45. SWISS MEN and SWISS MOUNTAINS. By Robert Feb- GUSON, Author of The Pipe of Repose. Price One Shilling. 46. GIRONIERE'S TWENTY YEARS in the PHILIPPINE ISLANDS. A condensed Translation by Frederick Hardman. Price One Shilling. 47. TURKEY and CHRISTENDOM ; an Historical Sketch, re- printed with Additions from the Edinburgh Review. Price One Shilling. 48. CONFESSIONS of a WORKING MAN. From the French of Emile Souvestre. Price One Shilling. 49. BRITANNY and the CHASE : With Hints on French Affairs By I. Hope. Price One Shilling.The Traveller^ Library. London : LONGMAN. BROWN, GREEN, and LONGMANS. 50. THE LOVE STORY from Southey's X>octor ; or, the Courtship and Marriage of Dr. Dove, of Doncaster. Price One Shilling, 51. AN ATTIC PHILOSOPHER in PARIS. JFrom the French of Emile Souvestre. Price One Shilling. 52. MR. MACAULATS SPEECHES on PARLLA.MENTARY REFORM in 1831 and 1832: Corrected by Himself. Price One Shilling. 53. The RUSSIANS of the SOUTH; or, Letters from Odessa. By Shirley Brooks. Price One Shilling. 54. INDICATIONS of INSTINCT: A Sequel to The Natural History of Creation. By T. Lindley Kemp, M.D. Price One Shilling, 55. & 56. CHARLES LANMAN'S ADVENTURES in the WILDS of NORTH AMERICA. Edited by C. R. Weld. Price Two Shillings. 57. 58. & 69. DE] CUSTINE'S RUSSIA, translated from the French, and abridged by the omission of irrelevant matter. Price Three Shillings. 60. XAVIER DURRIEU'S PRESENT STATE of MOROCCO. Founded on an article in the Revue des Deux Mondes. Price Is. \ 61. & 62. SELECTIONS from the WRITINGS of the Rev Stdnet Smith. Parts I. and II. Price Two Shillings. 63. SCHAMYL,the Sultan, Warrior, and Prophet of the Caucasus Sk^Sethimng."^ Bodenstedt and Wagner by Lascelles Wraxall! 64. ^^i^I^O„°i,i™^- J- ^ Esq. 65. & 66. LAING'S NOTES of a TRAVELLER on France Russia Switzerland, Italy, and other parts of Europe during the Present Cpntntt' First Series. Price Two Shillings. ^resent Century. 67 MORMONISM: An essay reprinted from the Edinburoh ieer/iew, No. 202. April 1854. Price One Shilling. -^ainour^ 68. & 69. 70. CIEESTERFEELD and SELWYN. By A. Hatward F.n Q. C. Two Essays reprinted from the EdJurJk^^^^SL u'^'The Traveller's Library. London: LONGMAN, BROWN GREEN, and LONGMANS. 71. & 72. SELECTIONS from the WRITINGS of the Rev. Sydnet Smith. Parts III. and IV. Price Two Shillings. 73. VOYAGES and DISCOVERIES in the ARCTIC RE- GIONS. Edited by the late.Miss Fanny Mayne. Price One Shilling. 74.& 75. CORNWALL : Its Mines, Miners, and Scenery. By the Author of Our Coal Fields and Our Coal Pits. Price Two Shillings. 76. & 77. DE FOE and CHURCHILL. By Johk Forster, Esq. Reprinted from t\ie]Edinburgh Review. Price Two Shillings. FRANCIS ARAGO'S AUTOBIOGRAPHY. Translated for the Traveller's Library by the Rev. Baden Powell, M.A. Price Is. 79. 80. & 81. GREGOROVIUS'S CORSICA. Translated for the Tm- veller's Library by Russell Martineau, M.A. Price Three Shillings. 82. PRINTING. Its Antecedents, Origin, and Results. By Adam Stark. Price One Shilling. 83. & 84. LIFE with the ZULUS of NATAL, South Africa. By G. H. Mason, of Sidney-Sussex College, Cambridge. Price Two Shillings. 85. FREDERICK the GREAT. By Thomas Babington Ma- CAULAY. Price One Shilling. 86. & 87. FORESTER'S RAMBLES in NORWAY. Price 2s. 88. BAINES'S VISIT to the VAUDOIS of PIEDMONT. Price One Shilling. 89. RAILWAY MORALS and RAILWAY POLICY. By Her- bert Spencer. Price One Shilling. 90. PICTURES from CUBA. By William H. Hurlbut. Price One Shilling. 91. & 92. HUTCHINSON'S NARRATIVE of the NIGER, TSHAD- DA, and BINUE EXPLORATION. Price Two Shillings, 93. & 94. • BRAZIL VIEWED through a NAVAL GLASS. By Ed- ward WiLBERFORCE, late of H.M. Navy. Price Two Shillings. 95. Mr. MACAULAY'S ESSAY on HALLAM'S CONSTITU- TIONAL HISTORY of ENGLAND. Price One Shilling.^I^iFlIIj 1874. aEIEEAL IIST or WORKS PUBLISHED BT Messrs. LONGMANS, GREEN, and CO. PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON. History, Politics, Historical Memoirs, &c. The HISTOEY of ENGLAND from the Fall of Wolsey to the Defeat of the Spanisli Armada. By James ANTHONr Froude, M.A. late Fellow of Exeter CoUege, Oxford. reuow Library Edition, Twelve Volumes, 8vo. price £8.18*. Cabinet Edition, Twelve Volumes, crown Svo. price 12s, The ENGLISH in IRELAND in the EIGHTEENTH CENTITRY. By JA1IE3 Anthony Froude, M.A. late FeUow of Exeter CoUege, Oxford! 3 vols. Svo. pnce 48*. ' ESTIMATES of the ENGLISH ZINGS from WILLIAM the CON- QUEROR to GEORGE III. By J. Langton Sanford. Crown 8vo. 12* 6c? The HISTORY of ENGLAND from the Accession of James II By Lord Macaulay. Student's EDmoN, 2 vols, crown Svo. 12*. People's Edition, 4 vols, crown Svo. 16*. Cabinet Edition, 8 vols, post Svo. 48*. LiBRAEY Edition, 5 vols. Svo. £4. LORD MACAULAY'S WORKS. Complete and Uniform Library ^^1'°?: f^^""' ^^^y Trevelyan. 8 vols. Svo. with Portrait, pnce £0.5*. cloth, or £8. S*. bound in tree-calf by Rivifere, On PARLIAMENTARY GOVERNMENT in ENGLAND; its Oriein Development, and Practical Operation. By Alpheus Todd, Librarian of the Legislative Assembly of Canada. 2 vols. 8vo. price £1 17* ■^'"'^^"^^^^ ^^'«io? of^^"^^??T^t^n HISTORY of ENGLAND,* since the Acces- Z^rth T.^-r''^^ .1"' 1760-1860. By Sir Thomas Erskine May, C.B. The Fourth Edition, thoroughly revised. 3 vols, crown 8vo. price 18* May,K.C.B. 2 vols. Svo. [/«tt«pr«*. ■^^'18?^^?° pVv^^^5^^°' E^^li^^t Times to the Year I860. By C. D. YONGE, B.A. Second Edition. Crown Svo. 7*. 6c?. ^^%T?^^?IH GOVERNMENT and CONSTITUTION from Henry VIL to the Present Time. By John Earl Russell, K.G. Fcp. Svo. 3*. 6ci ^2 NEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY LONGMANS and CO. The OXFORD REFORMERS — John Colet, Erasmus, and Thomas More ; being a History of their Fellow-work. By Fuederic Seebohm. Second Edition, enlarged. 8vo. 14^, LECTURES on the HISTORY of ENGLAND, from the Earliest Times to the Death of King Edward II. By William LoNGiiAN. With Maps and Illustrations. 8vo. 15^. The HISTORY of the LIFE and TIMES of EDWARD the THIRD. By William Longman. With 9 Maps, S Plates, and 16 Woodcuts. 2 vols. 8vo. 28s. HISTORY of MARY STUART QUEEN of SCOTS. Translated from the Original MS. of Professor Pbtit. By C. de Flandre, F.S.A. Scot. Professor of the French Language and Literature in Edinburgh. With two Portraits. 2 vols. 4to. 63s. WATERLOO LECTURES ; a Study of the Campaign of 1815. Bj Colonel Charles C. Chesney, R.E. New Edition. Bvo. with Map, 10s. 6d. The LIFE and TIMES of SIXTUS the FIFTH. By Baron HiiBNER. Translated with the Author's sanction, by H. E. H. Jerkingham. 2 vols 8vo. -2is. The SIXTH ORIENTAL MONARCHY; or, the Geography, History, and Antiquities of Parthia. By G-Eorge Rawltnson, M. A. Professor of Ancient History in the University of Oxford. Maps and Illustrations. 8vo. 16s. The SEVENTH GREAT ORIENTAL MONARCHY; or, a History of the Sassaaians : with Notices, Geographical and Antiquarian. By G. Rawunson, M.A. Professor of Ancient History in the University of Oxford. 8vo. with Maps and Illustrations. [In the press. A HISTORY of GREECE. By the Eev. George W. Cox, M.A. late Scholar of Trinity College, Oxford. Vols. I. & II. (to the Close of the Pelo- ponnesian War) 8vo. with Maps and Plans, 36s. The HISTORY OF GREECE. By C. Thirlwail, D.D. Lord Bishop of St. David's. 8 vols. fcp. 8vo. 28s. GREEK HISTORY from Themistocles to Alexander, in a Series of Lives from Plutarch. Revised and arranged by A. H. Clough. New Edition. Fcp. with 44 Woodcuts, 6s. The TALE of the GREAT PERSIAN WAR, from the Histories of Herodotus. By George W. Cox, M.A. New Edition. Fcp. ds. 6d. The HISTORY of ROME. By Wixliam Ihne. English Edition, translated and revised by the Author. Vols. I. and II. 8vc. price 30j. HISTORY of the ROMANS under the EMPIRE. By the Very Rev. C. Merivale, D.C.L. Dean of Ely. 8 vols, post Svo. 48*. The FALL of the ROMAN REPUBLIC ; a Short History of the Last Century of the Commonwealth. By the same Author. 12mo. 7s. 6d. THREE CENTURIES of MODERN HISTORY. By Charles Duib Tonge, B.A. Crown Svo. 7s. 6d. The STUDENT'S MANUAL of the HISTORY of INDIA, from the Earliest Period to the Present. By Colonel Meadows Taylor, M.R.A.S- M.R.I.A. Second Thousand. Crown Svo. with Maps, 7s. 6d. The HISTORY of INDIA, from the Earliest Period to the close of Lord Dalhousie's Administration. By J. C. Marshman. 3 vols, crown Svo. 22*. 6<f.3 NEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY LONGMANS Amy CO. INDIAN POLITY: a View of the System of Administration in India. By Lieutenant-Colonel George Chesney, Fellow of the University of Calcutta. New Edition, revised; with Map. 8vo. price 21s. The IMPERIAL and COLONIAL CONSTITUTIONS of the BRI- TANNIC EMPIRE, including INDIAN INSTITUTIONS. By Sir Bdwaed Creasy, M.A. With 6 Maps. 8vo. price 15s. The HISTORY of PERSIA and its PRESENT POLITICAL SITUA- TION; vfith Absti-acts of all Treaties and Conventions between Persia and England, and of the Convention with Baron Renter. By Clements R. Markham C.B. P.R.S. 8vo. with Map, 21s. ' REALITIES of IRISH LIFE. By W. Stetjart Trench, late Land Agent in Ireland to the Marquess of Lansdowne, the Marquess of Bath, and Lord Digby. Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo. price 2s. 6d. The STUDENT'S MANUAL of the HISTORY of IRELAND. By Mary E. Cusack. Crown Svo. price 6s. CRITICAL and HISTORICAL ESSAYS contributed to the Edinburgh Review. By the Right Hon. Lord Macaulay. Cabdset EDmoN, 4 vols, post Svo. 24s. I Library EomoN, 3 vols. Svo. 36s. PEOPLE s Edition, 2 vols, crown Svo. 8s. | Stitdent's EomoN, 1 vol. cr. Svo. 6s. ^^l^OJ?I °^ EUROPEAN MORALS, from Augustus to Charlemagne By W. E. H. Lecey, M.A. Second Edition, 2 vols. Svo. price 28s. HISTORY of the RISE and INFLUENCE of the SPIRIT of RATION^ISM in EUROPE. By W. E. H. Lecky, M.A. Cabinet Edition, being the Fourth. 2 vols, crown Svo. price 16s. j^i^iwun, The HISTORY of PHILOSOPHY, from Thales to Comte. By George Henry Lewes. Fourth Edition. 2 vols. Svo. 32s. The HISTORY of the PELOPONNESIAN WAR. By Thtjcydides Translated by R. Crawley, Fellow of Worcester CoUege, and formerly Scholar of University College, Oxford. Svo. [In ihe press The MYTHOLOGY of the ARYAN NATIONS. By George W. Cox, M.A. late Scholar of Tiinity College, Oxford, 2 vols. Svo. 28s. HISTORY of CIVILISATION in England and France, Spain and Scot- 'icLAf^^. ?v'orc?o"^?vo.?4r entire Work, with HISTORY of the CATHOLIC CHURCH of JESUS CHRIST from the K^I^.'kJ'^Vo. Sfce™ ^'"'''^ ^^Ch?S^..°^>,^^'n^^^^^^^^^ CHURCH, from the Ascension of Otinst to the Conversion of Constantine. By B. Burton D D late Prof, of Divinity in the Univ. of Oxford. New Edition. Fc™Ss.6d SKETCH Of the HISTORY of the CHURCH of ENGLAND to the srAlntT ^'^^^ I^ev. T. V. Short, D.D. Lord Bishop of St. Asaph. Eighth Edition. Crown Svo. 7s. 6d. > ' • -^"^^ x>i8aop or HISTORY of the EARLY CHURCH, from the First Preaching of the Gospel to the Council of Nic^ea, a.d. 325. By Miss Sewxix. Fcp. Svl 4s. W MAUNDER'S HISTORICAL TREASURY; comprising a Generalln-' ST^itT'^:^^,'''''^'^'^ -nd'a seriS of sVarate hSoi^^ rti^L^ ' ^^"^^^^ and brought down to the Present Time bv t£ R(«r George William Cox, M.A. Fcp. Svo. Gs. cloth, or 10*. calf. ^ A 2NEW WOEKS PUDUSiiED by LONGMANS and CO. 4 GATES' and WOODWARD'S ENCYCLOPEDIA of CHRONOLOGY. HISTORICAL and BIOGRAPHICAL; comprising the Dates of all the Great Events of History, including Treaties, Alliances, Wars, Battles, &.c.; Incident; in the Lives of Eminent Men and their Worlcs, Scientific and Geographical DL-: coveries, Mechanical Inventions, and Social Improvements. 8vo. price 42i. The FRENCH REVOLUTION and FIRST EMPIRE; an Historical Sketch. By William O'Connor Moesis, sometime Scholar of Oriel College c Oxford. Post 8vo. {Nearly ready. The HISTORICAL GEOGRAPHY of EUROPE. By E. A. Fbeeman,> D.C.L. late FeUow of Trinity College, Oxford. 8vo. Maps, {In the press. EPOCHS of HISTORY: a Series of Books treating of the History oi England and Europe at successive Epochs subsequent to the Christian Era. Edited by Edward B. Morris, M.A. of Lincoln College, Oxford. In fcp. 8vo. volumes of about 230 pages each. The three following are advancing at press:— The Crusades. By the Kev. G. W. Cox, M.A. late Scholar of Trinitj College, Oxford, The Era of the Protestant Revolution. By F. Seebohiu:. The Thirty Years' War, 1618-1648. By Samuel Eawson Gaedineb.; late Student of Christ Church. Biographical Works. AUTOBIOGRAPHY. By John Sttjaet Miix. Svo. price 7s. &d. The LIFE of NAPOLEON III. derived from State Eecords, Unpublished Family Correspondence, and Personal Testimony. By Blanchard Jerhold, 4 vols. Svo. with Portraits from the Originals in possession of the Imperial. Family, and Facsimiles of Letters of Napoleon I. Napoleon III. Queen - Hortense, &c. [Vol. I. nearly ready. LIFE and LETTERS of Sir GILBERT ELLIOT, First EARL olc MINTO, from 1751 to 1806, when his Public Life in Europe was closed by Mb . Appointment to the Vice-Royalty of India. Edited by his Grand-Niece, the.; Countess of Minto. 3 vols. Svo. 31*. 6d. MEMOIR of THOMAS FIRST LORD DENMAN, formerly Lord Chief Justice of England. By Sir Joseph Arnould, B.A. K.B. late Judge of the High:: Court of Bombay. With 2 Portraits. 2 vols. Svo. 32*. ESSAYS in MODERN MILITARY BIOGRAPHY, By Chabijis CoENWALLis Chesket, Lieutenant-Colonel in the Royal Engineers. Svo. 12*. 6i. BIBLIOTHECA CORNUBIENSIS; a Catalogue of the Writings, both MS. and printed, of Coinishmen from the BarUest Times, and of Works relating j to the County of Cornwall. With Biographical Memoranda and copious Literarj- ' References. 'By G. C. BoASE and W. P. Courtney. In Two Volumes. Vol. I. A.—0. Imperial Svo. 21*. SHAKESPEARE'S HOME and RURAL LIFE. By James Walter, Mai or 4th Lancashire Artillery Volunteers. Comprising a Biographical Narrative, illustrated by about 100 Landscapes and Views produced by the Heliotype pro- cess from Photographs taken in the localities. Imperial 4to. 52*. 6d. BIOGRAPHICAL and CRITICAL ESSAYS, reprinted from Eeviews, - with Additions and Corrections. Second Edition of the Second Series. .By A. HAi-ff-ARD, Q.C. 2 vols. 8vo. price 28*. Third Sbribs, in 1 vol. Sto, price l«.NEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY LONGMANS and CO. 5 The LIFE of LLOYD, FIEST LORD KENYON, LORD CHIEF JUSTICE of ENGLAND. By the Hon, George T. Kbnyon, M.A. of Ch Ch Oxford. With Portraits. 8yo. price 145, MEMOIR of GEORGE EDWARD LYNCH COTTON, D.D. Bishop of Calcutta and Metropolitan. With Selections from his Journals and Corre- spondence. Edited by Mrs. Cotton. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d. MEMOIR of the LIFE of Admiral Sir EDWARD CODRINGTON With Selections from his PubUc and Private Correspondence. Edited bv his Daughter, Lady BouKCHiER. Portraits, Maps, and Plans. 2 vols. 8to. 36«; LIFE of ALEXANDER VON HTTMBOLDT. Compiled in Commemo- ration of the Centenary of his Bii-th, and edited by Professor Karl Bruhns • translated by Jane and Caroline Lassell, with 3 Portraits. 2 vols. Bvo. 36s.' MEMOIRS of BARON STOCKMAR. By his Son, Baron E. Von tJrn^^^M J'^T^T^ from the German by G. A. M. Edited by F. Max MULLER, M.A, 2 vols, crown Svo. price 21s. LORD GEORGE BENTINCK; A Political Biography. By the Eight Hon. Benjamin Disraeli, M.P, Crown Svo, price 64, -^"'guu The LIFE OF ISAMBARD KINGDOM BRUNEL, Civil Engineer By ISAMBARD BRUNEL, B.C.L. With Portrait, Plates, and Woodcuts. 8vo. 21* ^'^MTlE"?al'pf ''^'^ Henkt Hoxlakb, Bart. 8yo price ioV 6?. ^^y^^«i^^-"i-Ordmary to the Queen. Third Edition. Post ^"l^ LETTERS of the Rev. SYDNEY SMITH. Edited by his Daughter, Lady Holland, and Mrs. Austen. Crown Svo. price 6s LEADERS of PUBLIC OPINION in IRELAND; Swift El*,od DICTIONARY of GENERAL BIOGRAPHY; containing Concise "^T^K °^ J^' QUEENS of ENGLAND. By Agnes Strickland ^?y2n?r%r«^^^ 2-^^ - every l.in'l^^^^ Si™ &6 NEW WOEKS PUBLISHED BY LONGMANS AND CO. ESSAYS in ECCLESIASTICAL BIOGEAPHY. By the Eight Hon Sii-J. Stephen, LL.D. Cabinet Edition. Crown 8vo, 7«. 6(/, ' MAUNDER'S BIOGRAPHICAL TREASURY. Latest Edition, re- constructed, thoroughly revised, and in great part rewritten; with 1 000 addf tional Memoii-s and Notices, by W. L. R. Gates. Fcp. 8vo. 6s. cloth • 10*.^. LETTERS and LIFE of FRANCIS BACON, including all his Occa^ - sional Works. Collected and edited, with a Commentary, by J. SpEDDma ■ Trm. CoU. Cantab. 6 vols. 8vo. £3. 12s. Vol. VII. completion, nearly ready! Criticism, Philosophy, Polity, &c. A SYSTEMATIC VIEW of the SCIENCE of JURISPRUDENCE, i. By Sheldon Amos, M.A. Professor of Jurisprudence to the Inns of Court - London. 8vo. price ISs. ^ A PRIMER of the ENGLISH CONSTITUTION and GOVERNMENT, r By Sheldon Amos, M.A. Professor of Jurisprudence to the Inns of Court. New Edition, revised. Post 8vo. [jn the p?-ess. The INSTITUTES of JUSTINIAN; with English Introduction, Trans-- lation and Notes. By T. C. Sandars, M.A. New Edition. 8vo. 15*. SOCRATES and the SOCRATIC SCHOOLS. Translated from the German of Dr. E. Zeller, with the Author's approval, by the Eev. Oswald J. Eeichel, M.A. Crown 8vo. 8*. 6d. The STOICS, EPICUREANS, and SCEPTICS. Translated from the German of Dr. E. Zeller, with the Author's approval, by Oswald J. Eeichel, M.A. Crown 8vo. price lis. The ETHICS of ARISTOTLE, illustrated with Essays and Notes, By Sir A. Grant, Bart. M.A. LL.D. Third Edition, revised and partly rewritten. the press. The POLITICS of ARISTOTLE; Greek. Text, with English Notes. By EiCHARD Congreve, M.A. New Edition, revised. Svo. [Nearly ready. The NICOMACHEAN ETHICS of ARISTOTLE newly translated into Enghsh. By E. "Williams, B.A. Fellow and late Lecturer of Merton College, and sometime Student of Christ Church, Oxford. 8vo. 12s. ELEMENTS of LOGIC. By E. Whately, D.D. late Archbishop of Dublin. New Edition. 8vo. IDs. Gd. crown Svo. 4s. 6d. Elements of Rhetoric. By the same Author. New Edition. Svo. 10s. 6d. crown Svo. 4s. 6d. English Synonymes. By E. Jaite Whately. Edited by Archbishop Whately. Fifth Edition. Pep. Svo. price 3s. BACON'S ESSAYS with ANNOTATIONS. By E. Whately, D.D. late Archbishop of DubUn. New Edition, Svo. price 10s. 6d. LORD BACON'S WORKS, collected and edited by J. Spedding, M.A. E. L. Ellis, M.A. and D. D. Heath. 7 vols. Svo. price £3. 13s. Qd. ESSAYS CRITICAL and NARRATIVE, partly original and partly reprinted from the Edinburgh, Quarterly, and other Eeviews. By WiUJAit Forsyth, Q.O. M.P. for Marylebone. Svo. [iVow ready.7 NEW WOEKS PUBLISHED BY LONGMANS and CO. The SUBJECTION of WOMEN. By John Stuaet Mill. New Edition. Post Svo. 5s. On EEPRESENTATIVE GOVEENMENT. By Johk Sttjart Mill- Crowu Svo. price 25. On LIBERTY. By John Stuart Mill. New Edition. Post 8vo. 7s. Grf. Crown 8to. price Is. id. PEINCIPLES of POLITICAL ECONOMY. By the same Author. Seventh Edition. 2 vols. Svo. 30s. Or in 1 vol. crown Svo. price 5s. ESSAYS on SOME UNSETTLED QUESTIONS of POLITICAL ECONOMY. By John Stuaet Mill. Second Edition. Svo, 6s. 6d. UTILITARIANISM. By John Stuaet Mill. New Edition. Svo. 5s.. DISSEETATIONS and DISCUSSIONS, POLITICAL, PHILOSOPHI- CAL, and HISTORICAL. By John Stuart Mill, 3 vols. Svo. 36s. EXAMINATION of Sir. W. HAMILTON'S PHILOSOPHY, and of the Principal Philosophical Questions discussed in his Writings. By John Stuart Mill, Foui-th Edition. Svo, 16s. An OUTLINE of the NECESSAEY LAWS of THOUGHT; a Treatise on Pure and Applied Logic, By the Most Rev. W. Thomson, Lord Archbishop of York, D.D, F,R.S, Ninth Thousand, Crown Svo, price 5s. 6fl!. PEINCIPLES of ECONOMICAL PHILOSOPHY. By Henry Dunning MACLEOD, M.A. Barrister-at-Law. Second Edition. In Two Volumes. Vol. I. Svo. price los. A SYSTEM of LOGIC, RATIOCINATIVE and INDUCTIVE. By John Stuart Mill. Eighth Edition. Two vols. Svo. 25s. The ELECTION of REPEESENTATIVES, Parliamentary and Muni- cipal ; a Treatise. By Thomas Hare, Barrister-at-Law. Crown Svo. 7s. SPEECHES of the EIGHT HON. LOED MACAULAY, corrected by Himself. People's Edition, crown Svo. 3s. 6d. Lord Macaulay's Speeches on Parliamentary Eeform in 1831 and 1S32. 16mo. Is. FAMILIES of SPEECH: Four Lectures delivered before the Eoyal Institution of Great Britain. By the Rev. P. W. Parrar, D.D, P R,S New Edition, Crown Svo. 3s. Gd. CHAPTEES on LANGUAGE. By the Eev. F. W, Farrar, D.D. F.K.S. New Edition. Crown Svo, 5s. A DICTIONAEY of the ENGLISH LANGUAGE. By E. G, Latham, M.A. M.D. P.R.S, Pounded on the Dictionary of Dr. Samuel Johnson, as edited by the Rev, H, J. Todd, with numerous Emendations and Additions. In Four Volumes, 4to, price £7, A PEACTICAL ENGLISH DICTIONAEY, on the Plan of White's Enghsh-Latm and Latin-English Dictionaries. By John T. White D D Oxon Kml;gham'!°'?o'^t8tf - Edward's ^^'—jJ^W, THESAUEUS of ENGLISH WOEDS and PHEASES, claslifiennd arranged so as to facilitate the Expression of Ideas, and assist in Literarv Composition. By P. M. Roget, M.D. New Edition. Grown Svo. 10*. 6^. ^NEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY LONCMANS and CO. 8 LECTUEES on the SCIENCE of LANGUAGE. By F. Max Mulleh, M.A. &c. Seventh Edition. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 16*. MANUAL of ENGLISH LITERATUEE, Historical and Critical, By Thomas Abnold, M.A. New Edition. Crown 8vo. Is. Gd. THREE CENTURIES of ENGLISH LITERATUEE. By Chaeles Duke Yonqe. Crown 8vo. price 7*. Gd. SOUTHEY'S DOCTOR, complete in One Volume. Edited by the Eev. J. W. Warter, B.D. Square crown 8vo. 12^. Gd. HISTOEICAL and CEITICAL COMMENTAEY on the OLD TESTA- MENT ; with a New Ti-anslation. By M. M. IIalisch, Ph.D. Vol. I. GenesU 8vo. 18^. or adapted for the General Eeader, 12i. Vol. II. Exodus, 15s. or adapted for the General Eeader, 12*. Vol. III. Leviticus, i Part I. 15*. or adapted for the General Reader, 8*. Vol. IV. Leviticus, Part II. 15*. or adapted for the General Reader, 8*. A DICTIONAEY of EOMAN and GEEEK ANTIQUITIES, with about Two Thousand Engravings on Wood from Ancient Originals, iUustrative of the Industrial Arts and Social Life of the Greeks and Romans. By A. Rich B. A. Third Edition, revised and improved. Crown 8vo. price 7*. 6d. ' A LATIN-ENGLISH DICTIONAEY. By John T. White, D.B. Oxon. and J. E. Riddle, M.A. Oxon. Revised Edition. 2 vols. 4to.' 42*. WHITE'S COLLEGE LATIN-ENGLISH DICTIONAEY (Intermediate Size), abridged for the use of University Students from the Parent Work (as above). Medium 8vo. 18*. WHITE'S JUNIOE STUDENT'S COMPLETE LATIN-ENGLISH and ENGLISH-LATIN DICTIONARY. New Edition. Square 12mo. price 12*. SPTinratPlv / '^he ENGLISH-LATIN DICTIONARY, price 5*. Gd. cjeparateiy | ^j^^ LATIN-ENGLISH DICTIONARY, price 7*. 6d. A LATIN-ENGLISH DICTIONAEY, for Middle-Class Schools, abridged from the Junior Student's Latin-English Dictionary. By John T. Whitb, D.D. Oxon. 18mo. [In the press. An ENGLISH-GEEEK LEXICON, containing all the Greek Words used by Writers of good authority. By C. D. Yonge, B.A. New Edition. 4to. price 21*. Mr. YONGE'S NEW LEXICON, English and Greek, abridged from his larger work (as above). Revised Edition. Squai-e 12mo. price 8*. Gd. A GREEK-ENGLISH LEXICON. Compiled by H. G. Liddeil, D.D. Dean of Christ Church, and R. Scott, D.D. Dean of Rochester. Sixth Edition. Crown 4to. price 36*. A Lexicon, Greek and English, abridged from Leddell and Scott's Greek-English Lexicon. Fourteenth Edition. Square 12mo. 7*. Gd. A SANSKRIT-ENGLISH DICTIONAEY, the Sanskrit words printed both in the original Devanagari and in Roman Letters. Compiled by T. Benfey, Prof, in the Univ. of Gbttingen. 8vo. 52*. Gd. A PEACTICAL DICTIONAEY of the FEENCH and ENGLISH LAN- GUAGES. By L. CoNTANSEAU. Revised Edition. Post 8vo. 10*. Gd. Oontanseau's Pocket Dictionary, French and English, abridged from the above by the Author. New Edition, revised. Square 18mo. 3*. 6d.9 NEW WORKS PUBUSHED bt LONGMANS AND CO. NEW PKACTICAL DICTIONARY of the GERMAN lANGITAGE- German-English and English-German. By the Eev. W. L. Blackley, M.a! and Dr. Carl Martin Friedlander. Post 8vo. 7*. 6d. The MASTERY of LANGUAGES; or, the Art of Speaking Foreign Tongues Idiomatically. By Thomas Prkndergast. 8vo. 6*. Miscellaneous Works and Popular Metaphysics. ESSAYS on FREETHINKING and PLAIN-SPEAKING. By Leslie Stephen. Crown 8vo. 10*. 6cl. MISCELLANEOUS and POSTHUMOUS WORKS of the Late HENRY 3 ?o?s 8^vo. pSS?"6/'^""^' '"^^^ ^ Biographical Notice, by Helen Taylor. MISCELLANEOUS WRITINGS of JOHN CONINGTON, M A late SyZ^.^m a""" Uniyersity of Oxford. Edited by"J. A. bYMONDS, M.A. With a Memoir by H. J. S. Smith, M.A. 2 vols. 8vo 28* SEASIDE MUSINGS ON SUNDAYS AND WEEK-DAYS ' Bv A. K. H. B. Cro-rni 8vo. price 3*. 6d. ' ^ Recreations of a Country Parson. By A. K. H. B Fiest and Second Series, crown 8vo. 3*. 6(^. each. • -n.. J3. J^iESTana The Common-place Philosopher in Town and Country. BvA K H B Crown 8vo. price 3*. 6d. ' * The Graver Thoughts of a Country Parson. By A. K H B Fmsr and Second Series, crown 8vo. 3*. Gd. eBch. ^ '^o^lTmS! r^rl-JS""' °' ^ Scottish diversity '"S °B'.fS%^«--/-"-^ of ™„.s Citie. and ""TotripSlI/'"'''"' """^ ' By A. X H. B. ^'TltV^Ztl'oUfcr^'^ Sundays. By SHORT STUDIES on GREAT SUBJEPT"? T!„ t LORD MACAULAY'S MISCELLANEOUS WRITINGS pSSt^?'f 2 vols. 8vo. Portrait, 2U ' People s Edition. 1 vol. crown 8vo. 4*. Gd.NEW WORKS PUBLIBHED BY LONGMANS AND CO. 10 LORD MACAULAY'S MISCELLANEOUS WRITINGS and SPEECHES. Student's Edition, in crown 8vo. price Gs. The Rev. SYDNEY ^ITH'S ESSAYS contributed to the Edinburgh Review. Authorised Edition, complete in 1 vol. Crown 8vo. price 2s. Gd. sewed or 6s. ba. cloth. The Rev. SYDNEY SMITH'S MISCELLANEOUS WORKS; including his Contributions to the Edinburgh Review. Crown 8vo. 6*. The Wit and Wisdom of the Rev. Sydney Smith; a Selection of the most memorable Passages in his Writings and Conversation. 16mo. Zs. Gd. The ECLIPSE of FAITH; or, a Visit to a Eeligious Sceptic. By Henry Rogers. Latest Edition. Fcp. Svo. price 5s. Defence of the Eclipse of Faith, by its Author; a rejoinder to Dr. Newman's Reply. Latest Edition. Ecp 8vo. price 3s. Gd. CHIPS from a GERMAN WORKSHOP; Essays on the Science of Religion, and on Mythology, Traditions, and Customs. By E. Max Molleb, M.A. &c. Second Edition. 3 vols. 8vo. £2. ANALYSIS of the PHENOMENA of the HUMAN MIND. By James Mill. A New Edition, with Notes, lUustrative and Critical, by Alexander Bain, Andrew Findlater, and George Grote. Edited, with additional Notes, by John Stuart Mill. 2 vols. 8vo. price 28s. An INTRODUCTION to MENTAL PHILOSOPHY, on the Inductive Method. By J. D. Morell, M.A, LL.D. 8vo. 12s. ELEMENTS of PSYCHOLOGY, containing the Analysis of the InteUectual Powers. By J. D. Morell, M.A. LL.D. Post Svo. 7s. Gd. The SECRET of HEGEL; being the Hegelian System in Origin, Principle, Form, and Matter. By J. H. Stirling, LL.D. 2 vols. Svo. 28s. SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON ; being the Philosophy of Perception: an Analysis. By J. H. Stirling, LL.D. Svo. 5s. The SENSES and the INTELLECT. By Alexander Sain, M.D. Professor of Logic in the University of Aberdeen. Third Edition. Svo. 15s. MENTAL and MORAL SCIENCE: a Compendium of Psychology and Ethics. By the same Author. Thu-d Edition. Crown Svo. 10s. 6d. Or separately : Part I. Mental Science, 6s. Gd. Part II. Moral Science, 4s. Gd. LOGIC, DEDUCTIVE and INDUCTIVE. By the same Author. In Two Parts, crown Svo. 10s. Gd. Bach Part may be had separately :— Part I. Deduction, 4s. Part II. Induction, 6s. Gd. TIME and SPACE; a Metaphysical Essay. By Shadwobth H. Hodgson. (This work covers the whole ground of Speculative Philosophy.) Svo. price 16s. The THEORY of PRACTICE ; an ETHICAL ENQUIRY. By the same Author. (This work, in conjunction -with the foregoing, completes a system of Philosophy.) 2 vols. Svo. price 24s. The PHILOSOPHY of NECESSITY; or, Natural La^r as applicahle to Mental, Moral, and Social Science. By Charles Bray. Svo. 9s. On Force, its Mental and Moral Correlates. By the same Author. Svo. 5s.NEW "WOEKS PUBLISHED BY LONGMANS and 00. 11 A MANUAL of ANTHROPOLOGY, or SCIENCE of MAN, based on Modern Eesearch. By Chaules Bray. Crown 8vo. price 6i. A PHRENOLOGIST AMONGST the TODAS, or the Study of a Primi- tive Tribe in South India; History, Character, Customs, EeUgion Infanticide ?6tttii,^^""«T- ..^^ Lieutenaiitlcolof el°B.a!'^*^S A TREATISE on HUMAN NATURE ; being an Attempt to Introduce the Bspenmental Method of Reasoning into Morll Subjects. By DAVm S Edited, wth Notes, &c. by T. H. Gremn FeUow of •Rallini rniioL nir T.H. GROSE, EeUow and Tutor of qSs cXf Sorl'^^^^^ ' ^^"^ ~ «.. press, ESSAYS MORAL, POLITICAL, and LITERARY. By David Htt^p By the same Editors. 2 vols. 8vo. ^ -ttUME. ^ Un the press. UEBEBWEG'S SYSTEM of lOSIC ana HISIOKY of LOGirAT " ^^fSfl "ilM'^"'^^^- By Awns™ Dk Mob..., r.E.A.S. Astronomy, Meteorology, Popular Geography, &c Ph.D. Astronom'e^rX?i?oO?eUi^S^^^^^^^^^^ ^'^'^ F. Bh/kkow, OUTLINES of ASTRONOMY. Bv Sir T P W tt The UNIVERSE and the COMING TRANSTTC! . -p ^- ^ searches into and New Views i-esneotinl th. n I-T ^^^senting Ee- togetherwithanlnvestlgaCoftheCoZtio^ Heavens; Photographs. Crovvn 8vo 15s ' ^' ^oo^cuts, and Three Lunar loured) ..a Flguie^Z af'-t-roSjo *' »- "^Sl'Sfo^if. the Plurality of World, StudiedNEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY LONGMAI^S axd CO. 12 The ORBS AEOUND ITS; a Series of Familiar Essays on the Moon arid Planets, Meteors and Comets, the Sun and Coloui-ed Pairs of Stars Bv 11. A. PuocTon, B.A. Crown 8vo. price 7^. Gd. SATURN and its SYSTEM. By E. A. PiiocTOR, B.A. 8vo. with 14 Plates, 14*. SCHELLEN'S SPECTRUM ANALYSIS, in its application to Terres- trial Substances and the Physical Constitution of the Heavenly Bodies. Trans- lated by Jane and C. Lassell; edited, with Notes, by W. Huggixs, LL D. F.n.S. With 13 Plates (G coloured) and 223 Woodcuts. 8vo. price 28*. A NEW STAR ATLAS, for the Library, the School, and the Observatory, in Twelve Circular Maps (with Two Index Plates). Intended as a Companion to 'Webb's Celestial Objects for Common Telescopes.' With a Letterpress Introduction on the Study of the Stars, iUustrated by 9 Diagrams. By B,. A. Proctor, B.A. Crown Svo. 5s. ^ j CELESTIAL OBJECTS for COMMON TELESCOPES. By the Eev. T. W. Webb, M.A. P.R.A.S. Third Edition, revised and enlarged: with Maps Plate, and Woodcuts. Crown Svo. price Ts. Gd. AIR and RAIN; the Beginnings of a Chemical Climatology. By Robert Angus Smith, Ph.D. P.R.S. P.C.S. With 8 Illustrations. Svo. 24*. NAUTICAL SURVEYING, an INTRODUCTION to the PRACTICAL and THEORETICAL STUDY of. By J. K. Laughton, M.A. SmaU Svo. 6*. MAGNETISM and DEVIATION of the COMPASS. For the Use of Students in Navigation and Science Schools. By J. Meheietbld, LL.D. 18mo. Is. U. DOVE'S LAW of STORMS, considered in connexion with the Ordinary Movements of the Atmosphere. Translated by R. H. Scott, M.A. Svo. 10*. Gd. KEITH JOHNSTON'S GENERAL DICTIONARY of GEOGRAPHY, Descriptive, Physical, Statistical, and Historical; forming a complete Gazetteer of the World. New Edition, revised and corrected to the Present Date by the Author's Son, Keith Johnston, F.R.G.S. 1 vol. Svo. [^Nearly ready. The POST OFFICE GAZETTEER of the UNITED KINGDOM. Being a Complete Dictionary of all Cities, Towns, Villages, and of the Principal Gen- tlemen's Seats, in Great Britain and Ireland ; Refen-ed to the nearest Post Town, Railway and Telegraph Station : with Natural Features and Objects of Note. By J. A. Sharp. 1 vol. Svo. of about 1,500 pages. [In the press. The PUBLIC SCHOOLS ATLAS of MODERN GEOGRAPHY. In 31 Maps, exhibiting clearly the more important Physical Features of the Countries delineated, and Noting aU the Chief Places of Historical, Commercial, or Social Interest. Edited, with an Introduction, by the Rev. G. Butler, M.A. Imp. 4to. price 3*. Gd. sewed, or 5*. cloth. The PUBLIC SCHOOLS MANUAL of MODERN GEOGRAPHY. By the Rev. George Butler, M.A. Principal of Liverpool College ; Editor of ' The Public Schools Atlas of Modern Geography.' [In preparation. The PUBLIC SCHOOLS ATLAS of ANCIENT GEOGRAPHY Edited, with an Introduction on the Study of Ancient Geography, by the Rev. George Butler, M.A. Principal of Liverpool College. Imperial Quarto. [In preparation. A MANUAL of GEOGRAPHY, Physical, Industrial, and Political. By W. Hughes, P.R.G.S. With 6 Maps. Fcp. 7*. Gd. MAUNDER'S TREASURY of GEOGRAPHY, Physical, Historical, Descriptive, and Political. Edited by W. Hughes, P.R.G.S. Revised Edition, with 7 Maps and 16 Plates. Fcp. 6*. cloth, or 10*. bound in calf.NEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY LONGMANb and CO. 13 Natural History and Popular Science. ^O^GMAN & CO.'S TEXT-BOOKS of SCIENCE, MECHANICAL and Ic^ce stJools?- °^ ^^'^ P'lblic and Ajjoerson's strength of Materials, small 8to, 3j Armstrong's Organic Chemistry, 3*. 6rf. Bloxam's Metals, is. 6d. GooDEVE's Elements of Mechanism, 3s. 6d. — Principles of Mechanics, 3*. 6d. GRDTm s Algebra and Trigonometry, 3s. 6d. Notes, 35.6^^. Jenkin's Electricity and Magnetism, 3s. 6(f. Maxwell's Theory of Heat, 3*. 6d. M^^T^'^ Technical Arithmetic and Mensuration, 35. 6d. Key 3s 6d Miller's Inorganic Chemistry, 3*. 6d. ^' Shelley's Workshop Appliances, 3s. 6d. Thorpe s Quantitative Chemical Analysis, 4s. Gd. Thorpe &MuiR's Qualitative Analysis, 3s. 6d. Watson's Plane and Solid Geometry, 3s. 6d. *** Other Text-Books in active preparation. f^Wol£u1^. "po'tSv^lSs.""''" Colored pl^^d ^^p™.^?^-^°^°^*^^ GENEEAL READERS and YOUNG S?'sTikSi^ngSaToflW^ Sfsft'J ™ Staff College.^ With aTlntroducS^^^ rous Woodcuts, price 12s 6d -cxoiesaor j.yndall. 8vo. with nume- 31 Woodouis 8m ^™"'^' I'I'-D- D.O.L. F.K.S. Willi 2 Plates md ELEMENIABT TREATISE „n .he wZvE THEOeT V/'rrrt^^ By HujiPHREY Lloyd, DD DCr Prnvr.=rn7a^ . ^""^^ IIGET. Edition, revised and eniaSed. 8vo prSs 6d ""^^ ^tod "^""'^^yZ'^S^^'^^^^ United States of America in Frontispiece and K^rS. ^Jown's^vo^^rfc^/g^J'-^- ^"^'S- With14 NEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY LONGMANS AKD CO. NOTES of a COURSE of NINE LECTURES on LIGHT delivered at the Royal Institution, A.D. 18C9. By John Tyndall, LL,D. D.C.L. F.E.S Crown 8vo. price 1*. sewed, or Is. 6d. cloth. FRAGMENTS of SCIENCE. By John Tyndaxl, LL.D. D.C.L. F.E.S. Third Edition. 8vo. price Us. LIGHT SCIENCE for LEISURE HOURS; a Series of Familiar Essays on Scientific Subjects, Natural Phenomena, &c. By R. A. Phoctob B.A. Eirst and Second Series. Crown 8vo. 7s. Gd. each. ' The CORRELATION of PHYSICAL FORCES. By the Hon. Sir W. E. Grove, M.A. F.R.S. &c. Sixth Edition, with other Contributions to Science. 8vo. [/«tfte press. Professor OWEN'S LECTURES on the COMPARATIVE ANATOMY and Physiology of the Invertebrate Animals. Second Edition, with 235 Woodcuts. Svo. 21^. The COMPARATIVE ANATOMY and PHYSIOLOGY of the VERTE- BRATE ANIMALS. By Richakd Owen, F.R.S. D.C.L. With 1,472 Woodcuts. 3 vols. 8vo. £3.13s. 6d. PRINCIPLES of ANIMAL MECHANICS. By the Eev. S. Hatjghton, F.R.S. Fellow of Trin. Coll. Dubl. M.D. Dubl. and D.C.L. Oxon. Second Edition, with 111 Figures on Wood. 8to. 2\s. The EARTH and MAN ; or, Physical Geography in relation to the History of Manldnd. SUghtly Abridged fTom the French of A. GuizoT, with a few Notes. Fifth Edition. Fcp. Svo. 2^. ROCKS CLASSIFIED and DESCRIBED. By Bernhaed Von Cotta. Enghsh Edition, by P. H. Laweence ; with English, German, and French Syuonymes. Post 8vo. 14*. GEOLOGY SIMPLIFIED for BEGINNERS. By A. C. Eamsat,LL.D. F. R.S. Forming part of the Rev. G. R. Gleig's New School Series. 18mo. [In the press. The ANCIENT STONE IMPLEMENTS, WEAPONS, and ORNA- MENTS of GREAT BRITAIN. By John Evans, F.R.S. F.S.A. With 2 Plates and 476 Woodcuts. Svo. price 28s. The ORIGIN of CIVILISATION and the PRIMITIVE CONDITION of MAN; Mental and Social Condition of Savages. By Sir John Lubbock, Bart. M.P. F.R.S. Second Edition, with 25 Woodcuts. Svo. price 16^. BIBLE ANIMALS; being a Description of every Living Creature mentioned in the Scriptures, from the Ape to the Coral. By the Rev. J. G. Wood, M.A. F.L.S. With about 100 Vignettes on Wood. Svo. 21s. HOMES WITHOUT HANDS; a Description of the Habitations of Animals, classed according to their Principle of Construction. By the Rev. J. G. Wood, M.A. F.L.S. With about 140 Vignettes on Wood. Svo. 21s. INSECTS AT HOME; a Popular Account of British Insects, their Structure, Habits, and Transformations. By the Rev. J. G. Wood, M.A. F.L.S. With upwards of 700 lUustrations. 8vo. price 21s. INSECTS ABROAD; a Popular Account of Foreign Insects, their Structure, Habits, and Transformations. By J. G. Wood, M.A. F.L.S. Printed and illustrated uniformly with ' Insects at Home,' to which it will form a Sequel and Companion. Un the press.NEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY LONGMAUS and CO. 15 STRANGE DWELLINGS; a description of the Habitations of Animals, abridged from ' Homes without Hands.' By the Rev J G Wonn M.A. f .L.S. With about 60 Woodcut Illustrations. Crown Sto. price 7s. 6rf. OUT of DOORS ; a Series of Essays on Natural History. Bv the Eev w^^l°' n-i- Illustrations from Originca Designs engraved on Wood by G.Pearson. Crown 8vo. LiYearlySJ A FAMILIAR HISTORY of BIRDS. By E. Stanley, D D E E S late Lord Bishop of Norwich. Seventh Edition, with Woodcuts. Fcp" SsW ' FROM JANUARY to DECEMBER; a Book for Children. Second Edition. Svo. 3^. 6d. ^^^^^ The HARMONIES of NATURE and UNITY of CREATION Bv Dr Geohge Hartwig. Svo. with numerous Illustrations, 18* • J • The SEA and its LIVING WONDERS. By Dr. Geoege Habtwig Latest revised Edition. Svo. with many lUustrations 10s 6d The TROPICAL WORLD. By Dr. Geobge Habtwig. With above 160 lUustrations. Latest revised Edition. Svo. price 10s. 6d ^^vc luy The SUBTERRANEAN WORLD. By Dr. Geobge Habtwig. With 3 Maps and about 80 Woodcuts, including 8 full size of page. Svo. price 21s The POLAR WORLD, a Popular Description of Man and Nature in the Arctic and Antarctic Regions of the Globe.^ By Dr. George Harwig With S Chromoxylographs, 3 Maps, and 85 Woodcuts. Svo. 10s. 6d. KIRBY and SPENCE'S INTRODUCTION to ENTOMOLOGY or Elements of the Natural History of Insects. 7th Edition. Crown Svo 5s MAUNDER'S TREASURY of NATURAL HISTORY, or Popular ""fll^S^conf^^^^^^^ Mje^S??h! Best Species in Cultivation; together with Cultu-nl iiAtntio n x- ^ A GENEKAI SYSTEM of BOTAHY DESCEIPTIVE and AN AT vttc a t '"'ir ^S.'''"'"^^- B7Tho..,E™. fourteenth18 NEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY LONaMANS and CO. with numerous Illustrations. 5 vols. 8vo. £5. 5*. 8vo. price 7*. 6d. LOUDON'S ENCYCLOPEDIA of PLANTS ; comprising the Specific Character, Description, Culture, History, &c. of all the Plants found ia Great Britain. With upwards of 12,000 Woodcuts. 8vo. 42«. MADNDEK'S SCIENTIFIC and LITERARY TREASURY. New Edition, thoroughly revised and in great part rewi-itten, with above 1,000 new Articles, by J. Y. Johnson, Corr. M.Z.S. Fcp. 6*. cloth, or 10*. calf. A DICTIONARY of SCIENCE, LITERATURE, and ART. Fourth Edition, re-edited by W. T. Brande (the original Author), and GtOEOE W. Cox, M.A., assisted by contributors of eminent Scientific and Literary Acquirements. 3 vols, medium 8vo. price 63s. cloth. A DICTIONARY of CHEMISTRY and the Allied Branches of other Sciences. By Henry Watts, P.R.S. assisted by eminent Contributors. Complete in 6 vols, medium 8vo. price £8. lis. 6d. Supplehent in tlie Press. ELEMENTS of CHEMISTRY, Theoretical and Practical. By W. Atlek Miller, M.D. late Prof, of Chemistry, King's Coll. London. New Edition. 3 vols. 8vo. £3. Part I. Chemical Physics, 15*. Part n. Inorganic Cheiustry, 21*. Part ni. Organic Chemistry, 24*. A Course of Practical Chemistry, for the use of Medical Students. By W. Odling, F.R.S. New Edition, with 70 Woodcuts. Crown 8vo. 7*. 6d. A MANUAL of CHEMICAL PHYSIOLOGY, including its Points of Contact with Pathology. By J. L. W. Thudichum, M.D. With Woodcuts. SELECT METHODS in CHEMICAL ANALYSIS, chiefly INOR- GANIC. By William Crookes, F.R.S. With 22 Woodcuts. Crown 8vo. price lis. Gd. A HANDBOOK of DYEING and CALICO PRINTING. By Williah Chookes, F.R.S. Illustrated with numerous Specimens of Dyed Textile Fabrics, gvo. [-^'* Spring. LECTURES on the DISEASES of INFANCY and CHILDHOOD. By Charles West, M.D. &c. Sixth Edition, revised and enlarged. 8to. 18*. The SCIENCE and ART of SURGERY; being a Treatise on Surgical Injuries, Diseases, and Operations. By John Eric Erichsen, Senior Surgeon to University CoUege Hospital, and Hohne Professor of Clinical Surgery in University College, London. The Sixth Edition, with 712 Wood- cuts. 2 vols. 8vo. price 32*. A SYSTEM of SURGERY, Theoretical and Practical. In Treatises by Various Authors. Edited by T. Holmes, M.A. &c. Surgeon and Lecturer on Surgery at St. George's Hospital. Second Edition, thoroughly revised, The SURGICAL TREATMENT of CHILDREN'S DISEASES. By T Holmes, M.A. &c. late Surgeon to the Hospital for Sick Children, Se'cond Edition, with 9 plates and 112 Woodcuts. 8t». 21*. Chemistry, Medicine, Siirg^ Allied Sciences. and theNEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY LONGMANS Am) CO. 17 lECTUEES on the PRINCIPIES and PRACTTm? of PTrvcrn -o Sir TiiosiAs Watson Bart M T) v^m tt.- °^ ^^SYSIC. By 2Tols.STo.price365. ' • ^^^^lon, thoroughly reyised. lECTURES on STIEGICAL PATHOLOGY Ev q;. t Dental Surgeon to Guy's HospST^o. ^^ti nuS^VuttS^^ A TREATISE on MEDICAL ELECTT?TfTTv n^r^^Jr^V"'^"''''"''- Practical; and its Use in the T7eatment of S 'i ™JO^^ETICAL and Queen in Ireland. Edited by J.V moo)^^Td%'Io OP'V^^?!^^^ The SKIM-MILK TEEATMETfT of DIAB™ 7'^^ DISEASE ; with Clinical Obser;ations on th. ? ? ''''^ BRIGHT'S these Affections. By A. S. DoS M D & rf^'^P*°"^ and Pathology of QUAIN'S ELEMENTS of aStoMY ^™ f edited by W. Shai^et, p R g^^A'1.^/^^*^ ^'^'^^'^^ [1867], J. .CLBLA.N-D, M.D. With upwards Of 800 ^ and price 31*. 6d. i^vvdrus 01 800 Engravings on Wood. 2 vols. 8to ANATOMY, DESCRIPTIVE and STTRGICAT tt F.B.S. With about 400 Woodcuts from ™« k ^^^^^ G^ray, T. Holmes, M.A, with a new IntfoduJti^ ?v Z v^'; Edition, A TREATISE on the CONTINFET^pe l^oyal 8.0. 2s',. By .C^Ki^s MuHcmso " M D LL D p R n°iJ P^^^ BRITAIN. GLINKA r T'''' iSS^i;^^^^^^^ CLINICAL LECTURES on DISEAqv*! «f ^i, r x„ .... and ABDOMINAL DRoSy £ cSfHr ^ JAUNDICE, Edition, preparing for pubhcation.^ Chables Murchison, M.D. &c. New OUTLINES of PHYSIOTOftv tt Mahshall, F.R.cI sSeon to^Tl?^ Comparative. By Johk crown 8yo. with 122 Wood^uS 3^/''" University College Hospital. V?ote ^^S'rB^?;tJ ^^B^Ts^ andPHYSIOLOGY of MAN By the Withnunierous?iluSk?,S-%« ?°2i:^' ^-^-S- of ^^g's Jo^le^!NEW WOBKS PUBLISHED BY LONGMANS AND CO. 18 The ESSENTIALS of MATERIA MEDICA and THEKAPEUTICS. By AiFRED Bauing Gauhod, M.U. F.ll.S. &c. Physician to King's College Hospital. Third Edition. Seventh ImpreBsion, brought up to 1870. Crown 8vo. price 12*. (id. The Fine Arts, and Illustrated Editions. A DICTIONARY of ARTISTS of the ENGLISH SCHOOL: Painters, Sculptors, Ai-chitccts, Engravers, and Ornamentists; -with Notices of their Lives and Works. By S. Hedgijave. 8vo. IG*. The THREE CATHEDRALS DEDICATED to ST. PAUL, in LONDON ; their History from the Eoimdation of the Eirst Building in the Sixth Century to the Proposals for the Adornment of the Present Cathedral. By William LoxGMAN, P.A.S. with numerous Illustrations. Square crown 8vo. price 21*. GROTESQUE ANIMALS, invented, described, and portrayed by E. W. Cooke, E.A. E.R.S. P.G.S. F.Z.S. &c. in Twenty-four Plates, with Elucidatory Comments. Eoyal 4to. 21s. IN FAIRYLAND ; Pictures from the Elf-World. "By Eichaed Doyle. With a Poem by W. Alungham. With Sixteen Plates, containing Thirty-six Designs printed in Colours. Eolio, 31*. 6d. ALBERT DURER, HIS LIFE and WORKS; including Auto- biographical Papers and Complete Catalogues. By William B. Scott. With Six Etchings by the Author, and other Illustrations. 8vo. 16*. The NEW TESTAMENT, illustrated with Wood Engravings after the Early Masters, chiefly of the ItaUan School. Crown 4to. 63*. cloth, gilt top ; or £5 5s. elegantly bound in morocco. LYRA GERMANICA ; the Christian Year. Translated by Catheelne Winkworth; with 125 lUustrations on Wood drawn by J. Leighton, F.S.A. 4to. 2l5. LYRA GERMANICA; the Christian Life. Translated by Catheeine WiNKWOETH ; with about 200 Woodcut lUustrations by J. Leighton, E.S.A. and other Artists. 4to. 21*. The LIFE of MAN SYMBOLISED by the MONTHS of the YEAR. Text selected by R. Pigot ; Illustrations on Wood from Original Designs by J. Leighton, E.S.A. 4to. 42*. CATS' and FARLIE'S MORAL EMBLEMS ; with Aphorisms, Adages, and Proverbs of all Nations. 121 Illustrations on Wood by J. Leighton, E.S.A. Text selected by R. PiGOT. Imperial 8vo. 31*. GtZ. SACRED and LEGENDARY ART. By Mes. Jameson. Legends of the Saints and Martyrs. New Edition, with 19 Etchings and 187 Woodcuts. 2 vols, square crown 8vo. 31*. 6d. Legends of the Monastic Orders. New Edition, with 11 Etchings and 88 Woodcuts. 1 vol. square crown 8vo. 21*. Legends of the Madonna. New Edition, with 27 Etchings and 165 Woodcuts. 1 vol. square crown 8vo. 21*. The History of Our Lord, with that of his Tyipes and Precursors. CompleS^ by Lady EastiIke. Revised Edition, with 31 Etchings and 281 Woodcuts. 2 vols, square crown 8vo. 42*.NEW WORKS PUBUSHED BY LONGMANS akd CO. 6 2 19 The Useful Arts, Manufactures, &c. ?^ f GOTHIC EEVIVAL; an Attempt to shew how far the taste for Medu-eval Architecture was retained in England dm^nj thn last two centuries, and has been re-developed in the present Bv 0 T Ia«t. LAKE, Architect. With 48 Illustrations Imperial 8vo 3l7 ^ GWILT'S ENCYCLOPEDIA of ARCHITECTUEE, with above 1 600 A MANUAL- of ARGHITECTUEE: being a Concise History and Explanation of the principal Styles of European Ai-chitecture Zci^f Mediaeval and Renaissance; with a Glossary of TechS Ter;^? THOiiAs Mitchell. Crown 8yo. with 150 Woodcuts, lot eS HINTS on HOirSEHOLB TASTE in FITRNITUEE, UPHOLSTERY PRINCIPLES of MECHANISM, designed for the Use of Students in wLis TI e I s'l'n EngineerSig Students generally? T R GEOMETRIC TURNING: comprising a Description of Pkr,f'« '"'f,;^.^/,';"'"'^^^ MAOTFACTHEES and" mSs M,„„ac.u«s. Witl. above 2,000 WooaoTST'™'^,.tiV8"4/SS%l,* HAMBOOK of PRACTICAL TELESBAPHY Bv R ^7. ENc"SpSSfTfrrr™ il.X»ll/XtLOP.a;DIA of CIVIL ENGINFTTTJTWP rr • , ™ grams. Square crown 8yo. 6*. 6d. -"^ken, M.A. C.E. With 35 Di«.20 NEW W0EK8 PUBLISHED by LONGMAJs^S and CO. TREATISE on MILLS and MILLWOEK. By Sir W. Faiebaihn, Bart. F.E.S. New Edition, with 18 Plat«a and 322 Woodcute, 2 vole. 8vo. 32i. USEFUL INFORMATION for ENGINEERS. By Sir W. FAiEEAraN, Bart. P.R.iS. Revised Edition, with numerous Illustrations. 3 vols, crown 8vo. price 3U. del. The APPLICATION of CAST and WROUGHT IRON to Building Purposes. By Sir W. FAiEBAmN, Bart. P.R.S. Fourth Edition, enlarged; with 6 Plates and 118 "Woodcuts. 8vo. price 16i. GUNS and STEEL; Miscellaneous Papers on Mechanical Subjects. By Sir Joseph WnrrwoBTH, Bart. C.B. F.E.S. LL.D. D.C.L. Royal 8vo. with Illustrations, 7s. Gd. A TREATISE on the STEAM ENGINE, in its various 'Applications to Mines, MiUs, Steam Navigation, Railways, and Agriculture. By J. Bourne, C.E. Eighth Edition; with Portrait, 37 Plates, and 54G Woodcuts, ito. i2s. CATECHISM of the STEAM ENGINE, in its various Applications to Mines, Mills, Steam Navigation, Railways, and Agriculture. By the same Author. With 89 Woodcuts. Fcp. 6*. HANDBOOK of the STEAM ENGINE. By the same Author, forming a Key to the Catechism of the Steam Engine, with 67 Woodcuts. Fcp. 9s, BOURNE'S RECENT IMPROVEMENTS in the STEAM ENGINE in its various apphcations to Mines, MiUs, Steam Navigation, Railways, and Agri- culture. By John Bourne, C.E. New Edition including many New Examples with 124 Woodcuts. Fcp. Svo. Gs. PRACTICAL TREATISE on METALLURGY, adapted from the last German Edition of Professor Kerl's Metallurgy by W. Crookes, F.R.S. &c. and B. Bohrig, Ph.D. M.E. With 625 Woodcuts. 3 vols. 8vo. price £A 19i. MITCHELL'S MANUAL of PRACTICAL ASSAYING. Fourth Edi- tion, for the most part rewiitten, with all the recent Discoveries incorporated, by W. Crookes, F.R.S. With 199 Woodcuts. 8vo. 31^. 6d. LOUDON'S ENCYCLOPEDIA of AGRICULTURE: comprising the Laying-out, Improvement, and Management of Landed Property, itid the Culti- vation and Economy of Agricultural Produce. With 1,100 Woodcuts, 8vo. 21*. Loudon's Encyclopaedia of Gardening: comprisins; the Theory and Practice of Horticulture, Floriculture, Arboriculture, and Landscape Gardening. With 1,000 Woodcuts. 8vo. 21i. BAYLDON'S ART of VALUING RENTS and TILLAGES, and Claims of Tenants upon Quitting Farms, both at Michaehnas and Lady Day. Eighth Edition, revised by J. C. Morton. 8vo. 10«. Gd. Religious and Moral Works. INTRODUCTION to the SCIENCE of RELIGION. Four Lectures deUvered at the Royal Institution; with Two Essays on ^alseAnaJogies and the Philosophy of Mythology. By F. Max Mulker, M.A. Crown Svo. 10*. Gd. SUPERNATURAL RELIGION; an Inquiry into the Eeahty of Divine Revelation. 2 vols. Svo. 24^. „^^„ ^ t ESSAYS on the HISTORY of the CHRISTIAN RELIGION. By John Earl RussELt,. Cabinet Edition, revised. Fcp. Svo. price 3*. Gd.21 NEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY LONGMANS Axn CO. The SPEAKER'S BIBLE COMMENTARY, by Bishops and other Clergy of the Anglican Church, critically examined by the Right Eev. J. W. COLEXSO, D.D. Bishop of Natal. 8vo. Paht I. Genesis, 3«. 6d, Pabt II. Exodus, is. 6d. Part III. Leviticus, 2s. 6d. Part IV. Numbers, Zs. 6d. Part V. Deuteronomy, 5s. The OUTLINES of the CHRISTIAN MINISTRY DELINEATED, and brought to the Test of Reason, Holy Scripture History, and Experience, with a view to the ReconciUation of Existing Differences concerning it, especially between Presbyterians and Episcopalians. By C. Wordsworth, D.C.L, Bishop of St. Andrews. Crown 8vo. price 7s. 6d. CHRIST the CONSOLER; a Book of Comfort for the Sick. With a Preface by the Right Rev. the Lord Bishop of Carlisle. SmaU Svo. price 6*. REASONS of FAITH; or, the OEDER of the Christian Argument Developed and Explained. By the Rev. G. S. Drew, M.A. Second Edition, revised and enlarged. Fcp. Svo. price 6*. SYNONYMS of the OLD TESTAMENT, their BEARING on CHRIS- TIAN FAITH and PRACTICE. By the Rev. R. B. Girdlestone, M.A. 8to. 15*. The ANTIQUITIES of ISRAEL. By Heinbich Ewald, Professor of the University of Gbttingen. Translated from the German. 8vo. [Jn the press. An INTRODUCTION to the THEOLOGY of the CHURCH of ENGLAND, in an Exposition of the Thirty-nine Articles. By the Rev T P BouLTBEE, LL.D. New Edition, Fcp. 8vo. price 6*. • • • FUNDAMENTALS; or, Bases of Belief concerning MAN and GOD: a Handbook of Mental, Moral, and ReUgious Philosophy. Bv the Rev t' Griffith, M.A. Svo. price lOf. 6(i. SERMONS for the TIMES preached in St. Paul's Cathedral and elsewhere. By the Rev. Thomas Griffith, M.A. Prebendary of St Paul's Crown 8vo. 6*. PRAYERS for the FAMILY and for PRIVATE USE, selected from the COLLECTION of the late BARON BTJNSEN, and Translated by Catherine Winkworth. Fcp. Svo. price 3*. 6d. An EXPOSITION of the 39 ARTICLES, Historical and Doctrinal. By E. Harold Browne, D.D. Lord Bishop of Winchester. Ninth Edit. Svo. 16*. The LIFE and EPISTLES of ST. PAUL. By the Rev. W J CONTBEARE M.A., and the Very Rev. J. S. HowsON, D.D. Dean of Chester •— SteT^Jdcu™: 1 voS^S^??""^^' Illustrations, Maps, Landscapes on 2i™Z^fro?vSTvT'2lT*^ " "^'^^^'^^ ^^P^' ^^-^ Student's EomoN, revised and condensed, with 46 Elustrations and Maps. 1 vol. crown Svo. price 9^. -^^t"" ■^^'JPJ T?^ and SHIPWRECK of ST. PAUL; with Dissertations A n.^-nLl' -p^°t'\ of St. Luke and the Ships and Navigation of tlw Ancients. By James Smith, F.R.S. Third Edition. Crown Svo. 10*. 6d COMMENTARY on the EPISTLE to the ROMANS. By the Eey So. pr?ce 3r6d.^*^'^°*°''°* ^'''^ J'^^e, Manchester. Crowa The EPISTLE to the HEBREWS; with Analytical Introduction and Notes. BytheRev.W.A.0'C0N0R,B.A. Crown sVo. price 4*. 6d. ST. MARK'S GOSPEL; Greek Text, with English Vocabulary Edited theRev.J.T.WmTE,D.D.Oxon. 32mo.l*.6d. ^NEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY LONGMANS axd CO. 22 ST. JOHN'S GOSPEL; Greek Text, with English Vocabulary. Edited by the Rev. J. T. ~Wm™, D.D. Oxon. 32iiio. [Just ready. A CRITICAL and GRAMMATICAL COMMENTARY on ST. PAUL'S Epistles. By C. J. Ellicoit, D.D. Lord Bishop of Gloucester and Bristol. 8vo. Galatians, Fourth Edition, 8s. 6d. Ephesians, Eourth Edition, 8s. 6d. Pastoral Epistles, Eourth Edition, 10s. 6d. Philippians, Colossians, and Philemon, Third Edition, 10s. 6d. Thessalonians, Third Edition, 7s. 6d. HISTORICAL LECTURES on the LIFE of OUR LORD. By C. J. Ellicott, D.D. Bishop of Gloucester and Bristol. Fifth Edition. 8vo. 12*. EVIDENCE of the TRUTH of the CHRISTIAN RELIGION derived from the Literal Fulfilment of Prophecy. By Alexaxder KErrH, D.D. 37th Edition, with numerous Plates, in square 8vo. 12s. 6d.; also the 39th Edition, in post Bvo. with 5 Plates, 6*. The HISTORY and LITERATURE of the ISRAELITES, according to the Old Testament and the Apocrypha. By C. De Rothschild and A. De Rothschild. Second Edition, revised. 2 vols, post Bvo. with Two Maps, price 12s. 6d. Abridged Edition, in 1 vol. fcp, 8vo. price 3«. 6d. An INTRODUCTION to the STUDY of the NEW TESTAMENT, Critical, Exegetical, and Theological. By the Rev. S. Da\tdson, D.D. LL.D. 2 vols. 8vo. 30^. HISTORY of ISRAEL. By H. Ewald, Prof, of the Univ. of Gottin- gen. Translated by J. E. Carpenter, M.A., with a Preface by Russell Mae- TTNEAU, M.A. 5 vols. 8vo. 63s. The TREASURY of BIBLE KNOWLEDGE; being a Dictionary of the Books, Persons, Places, Events, and other matters of which mention is made in Holy Scripture. By Rev. J. Atre, M.A. With Maps, 16 Plates, and numerous Woodcuts. Fcp. Svo. price 6s. cloth, or 10s. neatly bound in calf. LECTURES on the PENTATEUCH and the MOABITE STONE; with Appendices on the Elohistic Narrative, the Original Story of the Exodus, and the Pre-Christian Cross. By the Right Rev. J. W. Colenso, D.D. Bishop of Natal. Svo. 12s. The PENTATEUCH and BOOK of JOSHUA CRITICALLY EXAMINED. By the Right Rev. J. W. Colenso, D.D. Bishop of Natal. Crown 8vo. 6s. AUTHORITY and CONSCIENCE; a Free Debate on the Tendency of Dogmatic Theology and on the Characteristics of Faith. Edited by Conwat Morel. Post Svo. 7s. Gd. A VIEW of the SCRIPTURE REVELATIONS CONCERNING a FUTURE STATE. By Richard Whately, D.D. late Archbishop of Dublin. Ninth Edition. Fcp. 8vo. 5s. TEXTS and THOUGHTS for CHRISTIAN MINISTERS. By J. Hardikg, D.D. late Bishop of Bombay. [In the press. THOUGHTS for the AGE. By Elizabeth M. SE-mELi,, Author of ' Amy Herbert,' &c. New Edition, revised. Fcp. Svo, price 5s. Passing Thoughts on Religion. By Miss Se-s^'ell. Fcp. 8to. 3s. 6d. Self-Esamination before Confirmation. By Miss Sevteu.. 32mo. price Is. Gd.23 NEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY LONGMANS and CO. Eeadings for a Month Preparatory to Confirmation, from Writers of the Early and English Church. By Miss Sewell. Fcp. is. Readings for Every Day in Lent, compiled from the Writings of Bishop Jeremy Taylor. By Miss Sewell. Fcp. 5s. Preparation for the Holy Communion; the Devotions chiefly from the Works of Jeremy Taylor. By Miss Sewell. 32mo. 3*. THOUGHTS for the HOLY WEEK for Young Persons. By Miss Sewell. New Edition. Fcp. Svo. 2*. PRINCIPLES of EDUCATION Drawn from Nature and Revelation, and applied to Female Education in the Upper Classes. By Miss Sewell. 2 vols. fcp. Svo. 12^. 6cl, LYRA GERMANICA, translated from the German by Miss C. Wink- worth. First Series, Hymns for the Sundays and Chief Festivals. Second Series, the Christian liife. Fcp. Svo. price 3*. 6d. each Series. SPIRITUAL SONGS for the SUNDAYS and HOLIDAYS through- out the Tear, By J. S. B. Monsbll, LL.D. Fcp. Svo. is. 6d. ENDEAVOURS after the CHRISTIAN LIFE : Discourses. By the Rev. J. Martineau, LL.D. Fifth Edition, carefully revised. Crown Svo. 7s. Gd. HYMNS of PRAISE and PRAYER, collected and edited by the Eev. J. Martineau, LL.D. Crown Svo. 4^. Gd. WHATELY'S INTRODUCTORY LESSONS on the CHRISTIAN Evidences. ISmo. Gd. BISHOP JEREMY TAYLOR'S ENTIRE WORKS. With Life by Bishop Heber Revised and corrected by the Rev. C. P. Eden. Complete in Ten Volumes, Svo. cloth, price £5. 5s. Travels, Voyages, &c. MEETING the SUN; a Journey aU round the World through Egypt China, Japan, and California. By WiLLiAii Simpson, F.R.G.S. With 48 HeUo- types and Wood Engravings from Drawings by the Author. Medium Svo 2is The ATLANTIC to the PACIFIC; What to see, and How to see it. By John Erastus Lester, M.A. Map, Plan, Woodcuts. Crown Svo. Gs. S^V^-CATCHING in the INDIAN OCEAN. By Capt. Colomb, R.N. With a Map and niustrations. Svo. 21s. UNTRODDEN PEAKS and UNFREQUENTED VALLEYS; a Mid- mTZ^^ft^^^y^ Dolomites. By Amelia B. Edwakds. With a Map and 27 Wood Engravings. Medium Svo. 21s. The DOLOMITE MOUNTAINS; Excursions through Tyrol, Carinthia wXn^;,^FriuU, 1S61-1S63. By J. Gilbert and G. C. CHUROnkL, F.R.G S With numerous lUustrations. Square crown Svo. 21s. -cv.u.o. CADORE; or, TITIAN'S COUNTRY. By Josiah Gilbert otip ofNJiW WOHKS puuLibiiKU BY LONGMANS a.\d CO, 24 ''SJ?^^^^^^ ^^^S. By John Ttndall, LL.D. price 12I"m ''^ Edition, with 7 Woodcuts by B. Whjmper. Crown 8vo. The ALPINE CLUB MAP of SWITZERLAND and the ADJACENT th. -^^ M^^;'*^' -."A ^"""^ the Inch ; from SchafThausen on the North to Milan on the South, and from the Ortler Group on the East to ucneya on the West. Constructed under the immediate superintendence of tlie ALPINE Club, and edited by R. C. Nichols, P.S.A. P.R.G.S. In Four Sheets. {Nearly ready, MAP of the CHAIN of MONT BLANC, from an Actual Survey in 1863-1864. By ADAMS-E,KiLr,Y, F.Il.G.S. M.A.C. Published under the Au- thority of the Alpine Club. In Chromolithography on extra stout drawing- paper 28m. X 17in. price 10«. or moiuited on canvas in a folding case, 12*. Qd. TRAVELS in the CENTRAL CAUCASUS and BASHAN. Including Visits to Ararat and Tabreez and Ascents of Kqzbek and Elbruz. By D W FRKSimBLD. Square crown 8vo. with Maps, &c. 18*. ' ' PAU and the PYRENEES. By Count Henry Eussell, Member of the Alpine Club, &c. With 2 Maps. Ecp. 8vo. price 5s. HOW to SEE NORWAY. By Captain J. E. Campbell. With Map and 5 Woodcuts. Fcp. 8vo. price 5*. MY WIFE and I in QUEENSLAND ; Eight Years' Experience in the Colony, with some account of Polynesian Labour. By Charles H. Eden. With Map and Frontispiece. Crown 8vo. price 9^. RAMBLES, by Pateicius Walker. Eeprinted from Fraser's Magazine, with a Vignette of the Queen's Bower in the New Forest. Crown 8vo. 10*. Qd. The CRUISE of HER MAJESTY'S SHIP, the CURACOA, AMONG the SOUTH SEA ISLANDS in 1865. By Julius Brenchley, Esq. M.A. F.R.G.S. With Chart, 43 Coloured Plates and numerous other Illustrationa. Imperial 8to. price 42*. GUIDE to the PYRENEES, for the use of Mountaineers. By Charles Packe. With Map and Illustrations. Crown 8vo. Is. 6d. The ALPINE GUIDE. By John Ball, M.E.I.A. late President of the Alpine Club. 3 vols, post 8vo. Thoroughly Eevised Editions, with Maps and Illustrations :—I. Western Alps, 6s. 6d. II. Central Alps, Is. 6d. III. Eastern Alps, 10*. Qd. Introduction on Alpine Travelling in General, and on the Geology of the Alps, price 1*. Each of the Three Volumes or Parts of the Alpine Guide may be had with this Inteoduction prefixed, price 1*. extra. VISITS to REMARKABLE PLACES: Old Halls, Battle-Fields, and Stones lUustrative of Striking Passages in English History and Poetry. By WlLLiAii HOWTTT. 2 Tols. square crown 8vo. with Woodcuts, 25*. The RURAL LIFE of ENGLAND. By the same Author. With Woodcuts by Bewick and Williams. Medium "8vo. 12*. 6d. Works of Fiction. ELENA; an Italian Tale. By L. N. Comtn, Author of ' Atherstone Priory.' 2 vols, post Svo. 14*.NEW AYOliKS PUBLISHED by LOXGiMAKS axd CO. 25 The BTJEGOMASTEE'S FAMILY- nv Tw LOTHAIR, 6*. CONISGSBY, 63. Sybil, 6*. Tancred, Gs. Vexetia, 6,?. Henrietta Temple, 6^, CoNTARiNi Fleming, &c. 6^. Alhoy, IxroN, &c. Cs. The YoiTNG Duke, Sic. 6s. Vivian Grey, 6s. Th8 MODERN NOVELIST'S LIBRAPV v ^ . • complete in a Single Yolume .1.^^^^^^^. Each Work, in crown 8vo. M^S'frf 1^°''^' 2^- 6^- cloth. MELVILLE s Gladiators, 2s boards; 2s. 6d. cloth gooD FOR Nothing, 2s. boards • 2s id oToth " House, 2.. boards; 2'/ej. cloth * ' Z- n™' '^°^'-'3s ; 2s. 6d. cloth -tATE Coventry, 2s. boards • 2s fir/ piAth i/A±Siiv±,T EDITION of STOSIES and TATPcs u at- o AMY Herbert, 2s 6d ana 1 ALES by M]ss Sewell :— Gertrude, 2s. 6(f ' ^ors, 2s. 6d, The Earl's Daughter, 2s 6d Katharine Ashton, 2*. 6d. Experience of Life, 21. 6;^ Margaret Percival, 3s. 6d. Cleve Hall, 2s. 6d. Laneton Parsonage, 3s. 6d. CYLLENE • h URSULA, 3s. ed. B.cSs'rS4r^" fte„,s^„.H« s».™, h.a. Scholar Of Trin.CoU.Ln''^cS8,o^^^^^^^^^ ^'A- late PoetTT/ and The Drama.26 NEW WORKS PUJiLiBiuCD UY LONGMAKS and CO. BALLADS and LYRICS of OLD FRANCE; with other Poems. By A. Lang, Fellow of Mcrton College, Oxford. Square fcp. 8vo. price 5s. MOORE'S IRISH MELODIES, Maclise's Edition, with 161 Steel Plates from Original Dra\niigs. Super-royal 8vo. 31*. 6d. Miniature Edition of Moore's Irish Melodies, with Maclise's De- signs (as above) reduced in Lithography. Imp. IGmo. 10*. 6d. MOORE'S LALLA ROOKH. Tenniel's Edition, with 68 'WGod Engravings from Original Drawings and other Illustrations. Fcp. 4to. 21*. SOUTHEY'S POETICAL WORKS, with the Author's last Corrections and copyi-ight Additions. Medium 8vo. with Portrait and Vignette, lis. LAYS of ANCIENT ROME ; with IVRY and the ARMADA. By the Right Hon. Lord Macaulay. 16mo. 8s. Gd. Lord Macaulay's Lays of Ancient Rome. With 90 Illustrations on "Wood, from the Antique, from Drawings by G. Schaiip. Fcp. 4to. 21s. Miniature Edition of Lord Macaulay's Lays of Ancient Rome, with the Illustrations (as above) reduced in Lithography. Imp. IGmo. 10*. Gd. GOLDSMITH'S POETICAL WORKS, with Wood Engravings from Designs by Members of the Etching-Club. Imp. 16mo. 7*. 6d. The .ENEID of VIRGIL Translated into English Yerse. By John CoNiNGTON, M.A. New Edition. Crown 8vo. 9«. The ODES and EPODES of HORACE; a Metrical Translation into English, -with Introduction and Commentaries. By Lord Lyttox. "With Latin Text. New Edition. Post Svo. price 10*. 6d. HORATII OPERA. Library Edition, with Marginal Eeferenees and English Notes. Edited by the Rev. J. E. Yonge. Svo. 21s. The LYCIDAS and EPITAPHITJM DAMONIS of MILTON. Edited, with Notes and Introduction, by C. S. .Tekram, M.A. Trin. Coll. Oxford; in- cluding a Reprint of the rare Latin Version by W. Hogg, 1694. [/« the press. BOWDLER'S FAMILY SHAKSPEARE, cheaper Genuine Editions. Medium Svo. large type, with 36 Woodcuts, price 14^. Cabinet Edition, with the same Illustrations, 6 vols. fcp. Svo. price 21s. POEMS. By Jean Ingblow. 2 vols. fcp. Svo. price 10s. FmsT Series, containing ' Divided,' ' The Star's Monume.vt,' &c. Sixteenth Thousand. Fcp. Svo. price 5s. Second Series, ' A Story of Doom,' ' Gladys and her Islant»,' &.c. FiftU Thousand. Fcp. Svo. price 5s. POEMS by Jean Ingelow. First Seeies, with nearly 100 Illustrations, engraved on Wood by Dalziel Brothers. Fcp. 4to. 21s. Rural Sports, &c. The DEAD SHOT; or, Sportsman's Complete Guide: a Treatise on the Use of the Gun, Dog-breaking, Pigeon-shooting, &c. By Marksmak. Revised Edition. Fcp. 8vo. with Plates, 5s.NEW WOBKS PUBUSiffiD BY LONGMANS and CO. 27 With .tovo» Wo*..! (to'5S DtS. rjoS,1,SJ.,.^vo ''U^S^S^2SI,r«^«»^J^B^A^^^^^^ With with 20 colom-ed Plates? 8vo ^ Artificial Insect. Sixth Edition, ^ i=°tV?r±f'B7°»L?,XtS Treatise on the Art of Angling otter Pk.te.,plMamfd;olJJ?S p"t J™.?|7 ^""'''""^ aid 15 "^"fLi^ftSfi^t"^ the Chief Method, of STABIES and STABLE-FITTIKTftS t^,. 13 Plates, 15^. -cxAilJNtrS. By the same. Imp. 870. with REMARKS on HORSES' TTTrTW i same. PostSvo. if sd '^^'^^essed to Purchasers. By the Ihe in HEAIIH . r ^"^ WoodE„p;art„g,. 6<lu<icrom «™ ,!^ei ^TOiamNOK. With 70 The GREYHOUND "R,- q ' ' The'sTTT;:^^~ ^-^^^^^^^^ InBtnictfo^s^J^t ptd'Rfa?" f ^ ^^^^^^^ ^^^^^s now Extant General Managementflct^'E^yTLA™^^^^ ^}°^'' ^^^^ Trials, and The OX ; his r);«p. c.l ^ -^^averack. Grown 4 to. with 2 plates, 7s. 6d. tioniAtKi'X /E'DLToi'^^^^--^ -^th an Essay on pLt^m- y J. K. DOBSON. Crown 8vo. with lUustrations, 7s. 6^ Worh of m% and General Information.NEW WOllKS i'UBUSHKD BY LONGMANS axd CO. 28 A DICTIONARY, Practical, Theoretical, and Historical, of Com- merce and Commercial Navigation. By J. R. M'CuLrx)cn. New and thoroughly revised Edition. 8vo. price (ids. cloth, or 70^. half-bd. in russia. The CABINET LAWYER; a Popular Digest of the Laws of England, Cml, Criminal and Constitutional: intended for Practical Use and General Information. Twenty-fourth Edition. Fcp. 8vo. price 9s. A PROFITABLE BOOK UPON DOMESTIC LAW ; Essays for English Women and Law Students. By Peiikins, Junior, M.A. Barrister-at-Law. Post oVO. IVS, 6u. BLACKSTONE ECONOMISED, a Compendium of the Laws of England to the Present time, in Four Books, each embracing the Legal Principles and Practical Information contained in their respective volumes of Blackstone supplemented by Subsequent Statutory Enactments, Important Legal Decisions' &c. By D. M. AiRD, Barrister-at-Law. Second Edition. Post Svo. 7*. 6d. PEWTNER'S COMPREHENSIVE SPECIFIER; a Guide to the Practical Specification of every kind of Building-Artificers' Work, with Forma of Conditions and Agreements. Edited by W. Young. Crown 8vo. 6s. COLLIERIES and COLLIERS ; a Handbook of the Law and Leading Cases relating thereto. By J. C. Fowlee, of the Inner Temple, Barrister. Third Edition. Fcp. Svo. 7s, 6d!. The MATERNAL MANAGEMENT of CHILDREN in HEALTH and Disease, By Thomas Bull, M.D, Fcp. 5s. HINTS to MOTHERS on the MANAGEMENT of their HEALTH during the Period of Pregnancy and in the Lying-in Room, By the late Thomas Bull, M.D, Fcp, 5s, The THEORY of the MODERN SCIENTIFIC GAME of WHIST. By WiLLLiM Pole, F,R,S, Fifth Edition, enlarged, Fcp, Svo, 2s. Sd. CHESS OPENINGS. By P. W. Longman, Balliol College, Oxford. Second Edition revised. Fcp. Svo. 2s. Gd. THREE HUNDRED ORIGINAL CHESS PROBLEMS and STUDIES. By James Pierce, M.A. and W. T. Pierce. With numerous Diagrams. Square fcp, Svo, 7s, 6d. A PRACTICAL TREATISE on BREWING; with Pormulfe for Public Brewers, and Instructions for Private FamiUes, By W, Black, Svo, 10s, 6d. MODERN COOKERY for PRIVATE FAMILIES, reduced to a System of Easy Practice in a Series of carefully-tested Receipts, By EuzA Acton. Newly revised and enlarged; with S Plates and 150 Woodcuts. Fcp. Svo. 6s. WILLICH'S POPULAR TABLES, for ascertaining, according to the Carlisle Table of Mortality, the value of Lifehold, Leasehold, and Church Pro- perty, Renewal Fines, Reversions, &c. Re-edited by M. MAKiuoTT.Post Svo. 10s. MAUNDER'S TREASURY of KNOWLEDGE and LIBRARY of Reference; comprising an English Dictionary and Grammar, Universal Gazetteer, Classical Dictionary, Chronology, Law Dictionary, a synopsis of the Peerage useful Tables, &c. Revised Edition. Fcp. Svo, 6s, cloth, or 10s, calf. VINDEX Acton's Modem Cookery 28 AlBD's Blackstone Economised 18 Alpine Club Map of Switzerland 24 Alpine Guide (The) 24 Althaus'Medical Electricity 17 Alios's Jurisprudence 6 Primer of the Constitution 6 Anderson's Strength of Materials 13 AaiiSTRONQ's Organic Chemistry 13 Arnold's Manual of English Literature ... 8 ARNOtTLD's Life of Denmon 4 Atherstone Priory Authority and Conscience 22 Autumn Holidays of a Country Parson 9 Atbe's Treasury of Bible Knowledge 22 Bacon's Essays, by'VVhatelt 6 Life and Letters, by Spedding 6 Works, edited by Spedding 6 Bain's Logic, Deductive and Inductive 10 Mental and Moral Science 10 on the Senses and Litellect 10 Bail's Alpine Guide 24 Bayldon's Rents and Tillages 20 Becker's Charicles and GaUus ! 25 Benfby's Sanskrit Dictionary s Black's Treatise on Brewing ,, ',[[ 28 Blacklet's German-English Dictionary 9 Blaine's Riwal Sports " 27 Bloxam's Metals 13 BOASE & CoasTNEY's BibUotheca Cornu- biensis ^ BOULTBEE on 39 Articles 21 Bourne's Catechism of the Steam Engine . 20 Handbook of Steam Engine 20 — Lnprovements in the Steam Engine 20 Treatise on the Steam Engine 20 BOWDLER'S FamUy Shakspbadb "" 26 Bramley-Moobe's Six Sisters of" the VaUeys ; 25 Brande's Dictionary of Science,'Litera- ture, and Art jg Bray's Manual of Anthropology " n Philosophy of Necessitylo on Force ' "' jq Bbenchley's Cruise of H.M.S. Curacoii24 Brinkley's Astronomy ... ''' „ Browne's Exposition of the 39 Articie'g21 BBTTN-EL'sLifeofBBTJNEL .. 5 Buckle's History of Civilization"!!!!!"!'.'3 Miscellaneous Writings. 9 Bull's Hints to Mothers 28 B urgomaster's Family (The!)l\ BuBKE's Rise of Great Families!!!!!!!!!!!5 Vicissitudes of Families BuBTON's Christian Church o BuBK'sFoik-LoreofRome.!!!!!!!!."!"'!!!!!!!!! 24 Cabinet Lawyer jg Campbell's Norway !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! u Catbs's Biographical Dictionary !!!!!!!!!!!!!!! s and WOODWAED'S Encyciopsedia 4 Cats' and Farlib's Moral Emblems 18 Changed Aspects of Unchanged Trutlis .!' 9 Chbsney'S Lniian Polity !!!!!! j Modern Military Biography 4 Waterloo Campaign 2 Christ the Consoler 21 Clouqh's Lives from Plutarch !!!!!!!!!!!2 CoDRiNGTON's (AdmiraD Memoir !!!!!!!!!!!! 5 COLENSO (Bishop) on Pentateuch .' 22 on Moabite Stone, &e !!!!!!!! 2t on Speaker's Bible Commentary 21 CoLLiNS's Perspective u, COLOlCB's Slave Catching !!!!!!!!!!!!!! 23 Commonplace Philosopher, by A.!k.H.B. " Comtn's Elena "' ^ CONGRBVE's Politics of Aristotle !!!!!« CONNLNGTON'S Translation of the ^neid ... 26 Miscellaneous AVritings 9 Contansbau's French-English Diction- aries g CONYBEARB and HOWSOK'S St. Paujl!!!!!!!!." 1 Cooke's Grotesque Animals !!!!!!!!! 18 Copland's Dictionary of Practical Medicine 17 Cotton's (Bishop) Memoir & Counsel and Comfort from a City Pulpit!!!!!! » Cox's Aryan Mythology !!!!!! 3 Crusades !^ History of Greece !!!.!!!!!.!' 2 Tale of the Great Persian War !!!!!!!!! 2 Tales of Ancient Greece !! " 25 Cox and Jonbs's Popular Romances!!!!!!!!! 25 Tales of Teutonic Lands 25 Crawley's Thucydides 3 Creasy on British Constitutions ....!.... ! " 3 Chesy'S Encyclopedia of Civil Eri^ineex- ing .?. 19 Critical Essays of a Country Parson 9 Ceooke's Chemical Analysis !!!!!!!!!!!! 16 Dyeing and Calico Printing "!!!!! is CULLEY's Handbook of Telegraphy... 19 CusACK's History of teland !!!!!!!!!!!! 3 Davidson's Introduction to NewTestament 22 Dead Shot (The), by MARKSMAN 26 Decaisne and Lb Maout's Botany u De Morgan's Budget of Paradoxes...!!!!!!!!! 11 Disraeli's Lord George Bentinck !!! s Novels and Tales 25 DOBSON on the Ox 27 DoNKiN on Diabetes !!..!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! i? Dove on Storms !!jo Doyle's Fairyland !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!18 Deew's Reasons of Faith !.!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 21 EASTLAKB'8 Hints on Household Taste 1!) Gothic RcTivftl !!! 19NEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY LONGMAlfS ASD CO. 30 Edbn'8 Queensland 24 Edwaeds's Travels in Tyrol 23 Elements of Botany 15 Ellioott's Commentary onEphesians 22 ■ Galatians 22 Pastoral Epist. 22 Philippians,&c 22 Thessalonians 22 Lectures on the Life of Christ... 22 Epochs of History 4 EmoHSBjr's Surgery 16 Evans's Ancient Stone Implements 14 Ewald's Antiquities of Israel 21 History of Israel 22 Faiebairn'S Applications of Iron 20 Information for Engineers ... 20 Mills and Millwork 20 Faebaji's Chapters on Language 7 Families of Speech 7 FlTZWXGEAjr on Horses and Stables 27 FOBSYTH'S Essays 6 Fowler's Collieries and Colliers 28 Feaijois'S Fishing Book 27 Feebsiais''s Historical Geography of Europe 4 . Feeshfield's Travels in the Caucasus 24 From January to December 15 Feoude'S English in Ireland 1 History of England 1 Short Studies on Great Subjects 9 Gamgeh on Horse-Shoeing 27 GanOT's Elementary Physics 13 Natural Pliilosophy 13 GAEDINEE's Tliirty Years' War 4 Gaerod's JVIateria Medica 18 GiLBEET'S Cadore, or Titian's Country 23 GiLBBET and Chuechill's Dolomites 23 GlEDLBSTOlfE's Bible Synonymes 21 GCETHE'S Faust, translated by Hayward ... 25 Goldsmith's Poems, Illustrated 26 Goodbye's Mechanism 13 Mechanics 13 Gbant's Ethics of Aristotle 6 Graver Thoughts of a Country Parson 9 Ghat's Anatomy 17 Griffiu'S Algebra and Trigonometry 13 Geipfith'S Fundamentals 21 Sermons for the Times 21 Grove on Correlation of Physical Forces ... 14 GtnrOT's Earth and Man 14 GwiLT's Encyolopsedia of Arcliitecture 19 Haeding's Texts and Thoughts 22 Hare on Election of Representatives 7 HaetWIG's Harmonies of Nature 15 Polar World 15 Sea and its Living Wonders ... 15 Subterranean World 15 Tropical World 15 HatjghtON'S Animal Mechanics 14 Hayward'S Biographical and Critical EssayB; Second and Third Series 4 Helmhotz's Popular Ivcctures 13 Hems ley's Handbook of Trees and Plants 15 Hersohel's Outlines of Astronomy _ 11 Hodgson's Tlieory of Practice 10 Time and Space 10 Holland's Recollections 5 Holmes's System of Surgery I6 Surgical Diseases of Infency 16 HowiTT'S Rural Life of England 24 Visits to Remarkable Places 24 HrBNER's Memoir of Sixtus V 2 Hughes's (W.) Manual of Geography .... 12 Humboldt's Centenary Biography 5 Hume's Essays n . Treatise on Human Nature 11 Ihne's Roman History 2 iNGELOw's Poems 26 Jameson's Saints and MartjTs 18 Legends of the Madonna 18 Monastic Orders ig Jajieson and Eastlake's Saviour is JBNKIN'S Electricity and Magnetism 13 Jerrau's Lycidas of Milton 28 Jerrold's Life of Napoleon 4 Johnston's Geographical Dictionary 12 Kalisch's Commentary on the Bible H Keith on Fulfilment of Prophecy _ 22 Kenyon, Life of the First Lord 5 Kerl's Metallurgy 20 KiRBY and Spesce's Entomology 15 Lang's Ballads and Lyrics 26 Latham's English Dictionary 7 Laughton's Nautical Surveying 12 Lavbeack's Setter 17 Lawebnce on Rocks 14 Lecky's History of European Morals 3 Rationalism 3 Leaders of Public Opinion 5 Leisure Hours in Town, by A.K.H.B 9 Lessons of Middle Age, by A.K.H3 9 Lester's Atlantic to Pacific £3 Levfes'History of Pliilosophy 3 Liddell and Scott's Two Lexicons 8 Life of Man Symbolised 18 LlNDLEY and MoORE'S Treasury of Botany 15 Lloyd's Wave-Theory of Light 13 Longman's Edward the Third 2 Lectvires on History of England 2 Old and New St. Paul's 1< Chess Openings 28 Loudon's Agriculture 20 Gardening 28 Plants 16 Lowndes' Engineer's Handbook 19 Lubbock on Origin of Civilisation 14 Lyra Germanica 18, 23 Lytton's Odes of Horace 26 Maoaulat's (Lord) Essays 1 . History of England ... S -Lays of Ancient Rome 3681 NEW WOEKS PUBLISHED BY LONGMANS AND CO. Macaulat'S (Lord) Miscellaneous Writiiigs 9 Speeches 7 Complete Works 1 MACLEOD'S Economical Philosophy 7 Theory and Practice ol'Bankirtg 27 Mcculloch's Dictionary of Commerce ... 23 Mahkham's History of Persia 3 Mabshall's Physiology 17 Todas 11 MAEsmiAU's Life of Havelock 5 Historj"^ of India 2 Maktineau'S Christian Life 23 Hymns 23 Mauxder's Biographical Treasury 6 Geographical Treasury 12 Historical Treasury 3 Scientific and Literary Trea- sury 16 Treasury of Knowledge 28 Treasury of Natural History... 15 Maxwell's Theory of Heat 13 May's Constitutional History of England... 1 History of Democracy 1 Melville's Novels and Tales 25 Mendelssohk's Letters 5 Meeivale's Fall of the Roman Republic... 2 Romans under the Empire ... 2 Meeeipield's Ai-ithmetic & Mensuration. 13 Magnetism 12 Miles on Horse's Feet and Horseshoeing ... 27 Horses'Teeth and Stables 27 Mill (J.) on the Mind 10 Mill (J. S.) on Liberty 7 on Representative Government 7 on Utilitarianism 7 's (J.S.) Autobiography 4 Dissertations and Diacussiona 7 Political Economy 7 System of Logic 7 — Hamilton's Philosophy 7 Subjection of Women 7 Unsettled Questions 7 MiLLEE's Elements of Chemistry 16 Inorganic Cliemistry 13 MlKTO's (Lord) Life and Letters 4 Mitchell's Manual of Architecture 19 Manual of Assaying 20 MOXSELL'S Spiritual Songs 23 MoOEE's Irish Melodies 26 LallaRookh ge MOEELL's Elements of Psychology ..Z....... 10 Mental Philosophy 10 MOEHis'3 French Revolution 4 MosSMAS's Catholic Church 3 MtiLLEE's (Max) Chips from a Geriiian Workshop 10 Lectures on Language 8 77 Science of Religion .... 20 MUECHlsojf on Continued Fevers 17 — on Liver Complaints 17 New Testament, Illustrated Edition NORTHCOTT's Latlies and Turning .. O'CONoa's Commentary on Hebrews O'CoNOE's Commentary on Romans 21 Odling's Course of Practical Chemistry . 15 O'Keeffe Case (the) jx Owen's Lectures on the Invertebrata 14 • Comparative Anatomy and Physio- logy of Vertebrate Animals ... 14 Packe's Guide to the Pyrenees 24 Pagbt's Lectures on Surgical Pathology"!' 17 Payen'S ludustrial Chemistry 19 Peeeira's Elements of Materia Medica ... 17 Peekiss's Legal Essays 28 Petit's History of Mary Stuart 2 Pewtner's Compreliensive Specifier 28 Pierce's Chess Problems 28 Pole on Whist 28 pRENDERGAST's Mastery of Languages ...... 9 Present-Day Thoughts, by A. K. H. B 9 Proctor's Astronomical Essays iX Moon n New Star Atlas 12 Orbs Around Us 12 Plurality of Worlds II ■— Saturn and its System 12 Scientific Essays (Two Series)... 14 Sun 11 Universe ] i Public Schools Atlases (The) 12 Modern Geography 12 QUAIN'S Anatomy 17 Ramsay's Geology for Beginners 4 Rankkn on Strains in Trusses 19 RAWLIxson's Parthia 2 Sassaniam Monarchy 2 Recreations of a Country Parson 9 Redgrave's Dictionary of Artists '. 18 Reilly's Map of Mont Blanc 24 RiOH'sDictionary of Antiquities ! 8 Rivers' Rose Amateur's Guide '. 15 Rogers's Eclipse of Faith . . . . 10 • Defence of ditto 10 ROGET's English Words and Thmsea 7 Ronald's Fly-Fisher's Entomology . .. 27 Rothschild's Israelites 22 Russell's (Count) Pau and the Pyrenees!!! 24 Russell (Lord) on Christian Religion 29 on Constitution & Government 1 Saltee on the Teeth 17 Sandaes'S Justinian Institutes !!!!!!!!! 6 Saneoed'S English Kings !... i Savory's Geometric Turning 19 Sohellbn's Spectrum Analysis !!12 Scott's Albert Durer .' ig Seaside Musings by A. K. H. B. .................. 9 Seebohm's Oxford Reformers of 1498 !!!!!!!!! 2 Protestant Revolution 4 Sevtell's Examination for Confirmation!!! 22 History of the Early Church 3 Passing Thoughts on Religion ... 22 Preparations for Communion 23 Principles of Education ^ 23NEW WORKS PUBLISHKD BY LONGMANS and CO. 32 SsWELL's Readings for Confirmation 23 Readings for Lent 23 Tales and Stories 25 Thoughts for the Age 22 Thoughts for the Holy Week 23 SHAap's Post Office Gazetteer 12 Shblley's Workshop Appliances 13 Shout's Church History 3 Simpson's Meeting the Sun 23 Smith's (J.) Paul's Voyage and Shipwreck 21 (Sydney) Essays 10 Life and Letters 5 Miscellaneous Works ... 10 Wit and Wisdom 10 (Dr. R. A.) Air and Rain 12 Snbyd's Cyllene 25 SOTlTHBY's Doctor 8 Poetical Works 20 Staulby'S History of British Birds 15 Stephen's Ecclesiastical Biography 6 Ereethinking & Plain Speaking 9 Stibling'8 Hamilton lo Hegel lo Stockmab's (Baron) Memoirs ; 5 Stokes's Lectures on Fever 17 Stokbhbnge on the Dog 27 on the Greyhound 27 Stbiokland's Queens of England 5 Sunday Afternoons, by A. K. H. B 9 Supernatural Religion „ 20 Taylob'S History of India 2 (Jeremy) Works, edited by Eden 23 Text-Books of Science 13 THiBLWALL'sHistory of Greece 2 Thomson's Laws of Thought 7 Thorpe's Quantitative Chemical Analysis 13 Thobpe and MuiB'S Qualitative Analysis 13 Thudiohhm'S Chemical Physiology 16 Todd (A.) on Parliamentary Government... 1 Todd and Bowman's Anatomy and Phy- siology of Man 17 Trench's Realities of Irish Life 3 TrollopE's Barchester Towers 25 Warden 25 Tyndall on Diamagnetlsm in Electricity 13 Heat 13 Sound 13 'S American Lectures on Light. 13 Tyndall's Fragments of Science 14 ■ Hours of Exercise in the Alps 24 Lectures on Light 14 Molecular Physics 13 TJbbeeweg's System of Logic n Urb's Arts, Manufactures, and Mines u .1 Walker's Rambles n \ Walter's Home and Rural Life of Shakespeare 4 , Watson's Geometry 13 Principles & Practice of Physic .17 Watts's Dictionary of Chemistry is Webb's Objects for Common Telescopes ... 12 : Wellington's Life, by Gleig .s ■ West on Children's Diseases ' I6 Whatbly's English Synonymes 6 Lessons on Christian Evidences 23 Logic s Rhetoric 6 White's St. Mark's Gospel _ 21 St. John's Gospel _ 22 Latin-EngUsh and English-Latin Dictionaries g White &D0NKiN's English Dictionary ... 7 Whitwobth on Guns and Steel 20 WiLCOOKS's Sea iFisherman 27 WiLLiAsrs's Aristotle's Ethics • 6 Willioh's Popular Tables 28 Willis's Principl of Mechanism 19 WiLLOUGHBY's (Lady) Diary 25 Wood's Bible Animals 14 Homes without Hands 14 Insects at Home 14 Abroad 14 Out of Doors 15 Strange Dwellings 15 Wordsworth's Christian Ministry 21 YONGE's English-Greek Lexicons t Horace 2S History of England 1 English Literature 8 Modern History S ' YouATT on the Dog t! on the Horse 27 Zeller's Socrates fi Stoics, Epicureans, and Sceptics . 6 ^ISpoUiswoode & Co., Printers, New-street Square, London. LIBRARY1 tBIBIHIIIIl