OSTEOLOGY. terior wall of tlie spheno-maxillary fossa; it supports Meckel's ganglion. It presents, above, tlie anterior orifice of the Vidian canal; and, below, a roiigb margin, which articulates with the perpendicular plate of the palate bone. Developmeyit. The sphenoid bone is developed by ten centres, six for the pos- terior sphenoidal division, and four for the anterior sphenoidal. The six centres for the posterior sphenoidal division are, one for each greater wing and external pterygoid plate; one for each internal ptery- goid plate; two for posterior part of the body. The four for the anterior sphe- noidal are, one for each lesser wing and anterior part of the body; and one for each sphenoidal turbinated bone. Ossifi- cation takes place in these pieces in the following order: the greater wing and ex- ternal pterygoid plate are first formed, ossific granules being deposited close to the foramen rotundum on each side, at about the second month of fcetal life; ossification spreading outwards into the great wing, and downwards into the external pterygoid plate. Each internal pterygoid plate is then formed, and becomes imited to the external about the middle of foetal life. The two centres for the posterior part of the body appear as separate nuclei, side by side, beneath the sella Turcica; they join about the middle of foetal life into a single piece, which remains ununited to the rest of the bone tintil after birth. Each lesser wing is formed by a separate centre, which appears on the outer side of the optic foramen, at about the third month; they become united and join with the body at about the eighth month of foetal life. At about the end of the third year, ossification has made its appearance in the sphenoidal spongy bones. At birth, the sphenoid consists of three pieces; viz., the greater wing and pterygoid processes on each side; the lesser wings and body united. At the first year after birth, the greater wings and body are united. From the tenth to the twelfth year, the spongy bones are partially united to the sphenoid, their junction being complete by the twentieth year. Lastly, the sphenoid joins the occipital. Articulations. The sphenoid articulates with all the bones of the cranium, and five of the face; the two malar, two palate, and vomer. The exact extent of articu- lation with each bone is shown in the accompanying figures. Attachment of Muscles. The Temporal, External pterygoid. Internal pterygoid, Superior constrictor. Tensor palati, Laxator tympani. Levator palpebrje, Obliquus superior, Superior rectus, Internal rectus. Inferior rectus. External rectus. The Sphenoidal Spongy Bones. The Sphenoidal Spongy Bones are two thin, curved plates of bone, which exist as separate pieces until puberty, and occasionally are not joined to the sphenoid in the adult. They are situated at the anterior and inferior part of the body of the sphenoid, an aperture of variable size being left in their anterior wall through which the sphenoidal sinuses open into the nasal fossoe. They are irregular in form, and taper to a point behind, being broader and thinner in front. Their inner surface, which looks towards the cavity of the sinus, is concave; their outer surface convex. Each bone articulates in front with the ethmoid, externally with the palate; behind, its point is placed above the vomer, and is received between the root of the pterygoid process on the outer side, and the rostrum of the sphe- noid on the inner. Fig. 37.—Plan of the Development of Sphenoid. By Ten Centres. . J&sser wtn^ iaAne-ji/iTC aJ hodif ^ 1 Jar-cacK ijitptC'Tljpl^tO 1 fir lacl fjAat. m'lig Ir &xt.ptcrTjg-;pl^t.e. JjurcoiJi SplicTUJLdal turlLTuittd bime