106 OSTEOLOGY. The Mastoid Portion is bounded in front hj tlie anterior root of the zygoma; above, by a line which runs from the posterior root of the zygoma to the end of the masto-parietal suture; behind and below, by the masto-occipital suture. It is formed by the mastoid and part of the squamous portion of the temporal bone; its surface is convex and rough for the attachment of muscles, and presents, from behind forwards, the mastoid foramen, the mastoid process, the external auditory meatus, surrounded by the auditory process, and, most anteriorly, the glenoid fossa, bounded in front by the eminentia articularis, behind by the vaginal process. The Zygomatic Foss^. The Zygomatic fossa is an irregular-shaped cavity, situated below, and on the inner side of the zygoma; bounded, in front, by the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone and the ridge which descends from its malar process; behind, by the posterior border of the pterygoid process; above, by the pterygoid ridge on the outer surface of the great wing of the sphenoid and squamous portion of the temporal; below, by the alveolar border of the superior maxilla; internally, by the external pterygoid plate; and externally, by the zygomatic arch and ramus of the jaw. It contains the lower part of the Temporal, the External and Internal pterygoid muscles, the internal maxillary artery, the inferior maxillary nerve, and their branches. At its upper and inner part may be observed two fissures, the spheno-maxillary and pterygo-maxillary. The Spheno-maxillary fissure, horizontal in direction, opens into the outer and back part of the orbit. It is formed above by the lower border of the orbital surface of the great wing of the sphenoid; below, by the external border of the orbital surface of the superior maxillary and a small part of the palate bone; externally, by a small part of the malar bone; internally, it joins at right angles with the pterygo-maxillary fissure. This fissure opens a communication from the orbit into three fossae-, the temporal, zygomatic, and spheno-maxillary; it transmits the superior maxillary nerve, infra-orbital artery, and ascending branches from Meckel's ganglion. The Pterygo-maxillary fissure is vertical, and descends at right angles from the inner extremity of the preceding; it is an elongated interval, formed by the divergence of the superior maxillary bone from the pterygoid process of the sphenoid. It serves to connect the spheno-maxillary fossa with the zygomatic, and transmits branches of the internal maxillary artery. The Spheko-Maxillaey Fossa. The Spheno-maxillary fossa is a small triangular space situated at the angle of junction of the spheno-maxillary and pterygo-maxillary fissures, and placed beneath the apex of the orbit. It is formed above by the under surface of the body of the sphenoid; in front, by the superior maxillary bone; behind, by the pterygoid process of the sphenoid; internally, by the vertical plate of the palate. This fossa has three fissures terminating in it, the sphenoidal, spheno-maxillary, and pterygo-maxillary; it communicates with three fossae, the orbital, nasal, and zygomatic, and with the cavity of the cranium, and has opening into it five fora- mina. Of these there are three on the posterior wall, the foramen rotundum above, the Vidian below and internal, and, still more inferior and internal, the pterygo-palatine. On the inner wall is the spheno-palatine foramen by which it communicates with the nasal fossa, and below, the superior orifice of the posterior palatine canal, besides occasionally the orifices of two or three accessory posterior palatine canals. Anteeior Eegion of the Skull. The Anterior Region of the Skull, which forms the face, is of an oval form, presents an irregular surface^ and is excavated for the reception of the two prin- cipal organs of sense, the eye and the nose. It is bounded above by the nasal