OF THE MUSCLES OP THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 323 patient at the same time loses the power of extending the forearm. The treatment consists in relaxing the Triceps by extending the forearm, and retaining it in this position by means of a long straight splint applied to the front of the arm ; the fragments are thus brought into closer apposition, and may be further approximated by drawing down the upper fragment. Union is generally ligamentous. Fracture of the neck of the radius is an exceedingly rare accident, and is generally caused by direct violence. Its diagnosis is somewhat obscure, on account of the slight deformity visible from the large number of muscles which surround it; but the movements of pronation and supi- nation are entirely lost. The upper fragment is drawn outwards by the Supinator brevis, its extent of displacement being limited by the attachment of the orbicular ligament. The lower fragment is drawn forwards and slightly upwards by the Biceps, and inwards by the Pronator radii teres, its displacement forwards and upwards being counteracted in some degree by the Supinator brevis. The treatment essentially consists in relaxing the Biceps, Supinator brevis, and Pronator radii teres muscles, by flexing the forearm, and placing it in a position midway between pronation and supination, extension having been previously made so as to bring the parts in apposition. Fracture of the radius (fig. 184) is more common than fracture of the ulna, on account of the connection of the former with the wrist. Fracture of the shaft of the radius near its centre may occur from direct violence, but more fre- quently from a fall forwards, the entire weight of the body being received on the wrist and Yig. 184.—Fracture of the Shaft of the Radius, hand. The upper fragment is drawn up- wards by the Biceps, and inwards by the Pronator radii teres, holding a position mid- way between pronation and supination, and a degree of fulness in the upper half of the forearm is thus produced; the lower frag- ment is drawn downwards and inwards towards the ulna by the Pronator quadratus, and thrown into a state of pronation by the same muscle; at the same time, the Supi- nator, longus, by elevating the styloid pro- cess, into which it is inserted, will serve to depress still more the upper end of the lower fragment towards the ulna. In order to relax the opposing muscles the forearm should be bent, and the limb placed in a position midway between pronation and supination; the fracture is then easily reduced by extension from the wrist and elbow. Well-padded splints should then be applied on both sides of the forearm from the elbow to the wrist; the hand being allowed to fall will, by its own weight, counteract the action of the Pronator quadratus and Supinator longus, and elevate the lower fragment to the level of the upper one. Fracture of the shaft of the idna is not a common accident; it is usually caused by direct vio- lence. Its more protected position on the inner side of the limb, the greater strength of its shaft, and its indirect connection with the wrist, render it less liable to injury than the radius. It usu- ally occurs a little below the centre, which is the weakest part of the bone. The upper fragment retains its usual position; but the lower fragment is drawn outwards towards the radius by the Pronator quadratus, producing a well-marked depression at the seat of fracture, and some fulness on the dorsal and palmar surfaces of the forearm. The fracture is easily reduced by extension from the wrist and forearm. The forearm should be flexed, and placed in a position midway between pronation and supination, and well-padded splints applied from the elbow to the ends of the fingers. Fracture of the shafts of the radius and ulna together is not a common accident; it may arise from a direct blow, or from indirect violence. The lower fragments are drawn upwards, some- times forwards, sometimes backwards, according to the direction of the fracture, by the combined actions of the Flexor and Extensor muscles, producing a degree of fulness on the dorsal or pal- mar surface of the forearm; at the same time the two fragments are drawn into contact by the Pronator quadratus, the radius in a state of pronation : the upper fragment of the radius is drawn upwards and inwards by the Biceps and Pronator radii teres to a higher level than the ulna; the upper portion of the ulna is slightly elevated by the Brachialis anticus. The fracture may be«- reduced by extension from the wrist and elbow, and the forearm should be placed in the same position as in fracture of the ulna. _ In the treatment of all cases of fracture of the bones of the forearm, the greatest care is requi- site to prevent the ends of the bones from being drawn inwards towards the interosseous space : if this is not carefully attended to, the radius and ulna may become anchylosed, and the move- ments of pronation and supination entirely lost. To obviate this, the splints applied to the limb should be well padded, so as to press the muscles down into their normal situation in the interos- seous space, and so prevent the approximation of the fragments. Fracture of the lower end of the radius (fig. 185) is usually called Cones's fracture, from the name of the eminent Dublin surgeon who first accurately described it. It is generally produced from the patient falling from a height, and alighting upon the hand, which receives the entire weight of the body. This fracture usually takes place from half an inch to an inch above the