OF THE TARSUS. 23J Tlie Superior Calcaneo-cuhoid Ligament (fig. 144) is a tliin and narrc"w fasci- culus, which passes between the contiguous surfaces of the os calcis and cuboid, on the dorsal surface of the joint. The Internal Calcaneo-cuboid or Interosseous Ligament (fig. 144) is a short, but thick and strong, band of fibres, arising from the os calcis, in the deep groove which intervenes between it and the astragalus; being closely blended, at its ori- gin, with the superior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. It is inserted into the inner side of the cuboid bone. This ligament forms one of the chief bonds of union between the first and second row of the tarsus. The Long Calcaneo-cuhoid (fig. 145), Fig. 145.—Ligaments of Plantar Surface of the the most superficial of the two plantar ligaments, is the longest of all the liga- ments of the tarsus, being attached to the under sui'face of the os calcis, from near the tuberosities, as far forwards as the anterior tubercle; its fibres pass forwards to be attached to the ridge on the under surface of the cuboid bone, the more su- perficial fibres being continued onwards to the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. This ligament crosses the groove on the under surface of the cuboid bone, converting it into a canal for the passage of the tendon of the Peroneus longus. The Short Calcaneo-cuboid Ligament lies nearer to the bones than the preceding, from which it is separated by a little areo- lar adipose tissue. It is exceedingly broad, about an inch in length, and ex- tends from the tubercle and the depression in front of it on the fore part of the under surface of the os calcis, to the inferior sur- face of the cuboid bone behind the peroneal groove. A synovial membrane is found in this articulation. 2: The ligaments connecting the os calcis with the scaphoid, are two in num- ber :— Superior Calcaneo-scaphoid. Inferior Calcaneo-scaphoid. The Superior Calcaneo-scaphoid (fig. 144) arises, as already mentioned, with the internal calcaneo-cuboid, in the deep groove between the astragalus and os calcis; it passes forward from the inner side of the anterior extremity of the os calcis to the oiiter side of the scaphoid bone. These two ligaments resemble the letter Y, being blended together behind, but separated in front. The Inferior Calcaneo-scaphoid (fig. 145) is by far the largest and strongest of the two ligaments of this articulation; it is a broad and thick band of ligamentous fibres, which passes forwards and inwards from the anterior and inner extremity of the OS calcis, to the under surface of the scaphoid bone. This ligament not only serves to connect the os calcis and scaphoid, but supports the head of the astragalus, forming part of the articular cavity in which it is received. Its dipper surface is lined by the synovial membrane continued from the anterior calcaneo- astragaloid articulation. Its under surface is in contact with the tendon of the Tibialis posticus muscle. 1' oot.