STERNUM. 115 six centres;—one for the first piece or manubrium, four for the second piece or gladiolus, and one for the ensiform appendix. The sternum is entirely cartilaginous up to the mid- dle of foetal life, and when ossification takes place, the ossific granules are depo- sited in the middle of the intervals between the ar- ticular depressions for the costal cartilages, in the fol- lowing order (fig. 71): in the first piece, between the fifth and sixth months; in the second and third, between the sixth and se- venth months; in the fourth piece, at the ninth month; in the fifth, Avithin the first year, or between the first and second years after birth; and in the ensiform appendix, between the se- cond and the seventeenth or eighteenth years, by a single centre which makes its appearance at the upper part, and proceeds gra- dually downwards. To these may be added the occasional existence, as described by Breschet, of two small episternal cen- tres, which make their ap- pearance one on each side of the interclavicular notch. These are regarded by him as the anterior rudiments of a rib, of which the pos- terior rudiment is the ante- rior lamina of the trans- verse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. It occa- . sionally happens that some of the segments are form- ed from more than one centre, the number and posi- tion of which vary (fig. 73). Thus the first piece may have two, three, or even six centres. When two are present, they are generally situated one above the other, the upper one being Fig. 71.—Development of Sternum, by Six Centres. Time- "J or Nunubriu/in or Gladiolus G-J v:o. •'Carlilagc Y" ^ Fix. 72. ra/rely unite > except inclilage year 20-2S?h soon afterpi^hertij pa,rtly cart/lMgiiuias in advanf^ life Fi^s. 73 and 74. Peculiarities. In. <numbor of C cntTes for i-fj!iece Zar inore rcnii-cj Z"^piece, usiui/Uy one 4!? I 2placed latera Uif ATid in Mode of Union, Arrest of Dei^elojpine?:^' *j 111 1 ^"■teraJpieces j^TodiuCny Sternal fiseare k Sternal foramen