THE TYMPANUM. 633 The fenestra ovalis is a reniform opening, leading. from the tympanum into the vestibule; its long diameter is directed horizontally, and its convex border upwards. The opening in the recent state is closed by the lining membrane common to both cavities, and is occupied by the base of the stapes. This mem- brane is placed opposite the membrana tympani, and is connected with it by the .ossicula auditiis. The fenestra rotunda is an oval aperture, placed at the bottom of a funnel- shaped depression, leading into the cochlea. It is placed below and rather behind Fig. 314.—View of Inner Wall of Tympanum. (Enlarged.) the fenestra ovalis, from which it is separated by a rounded elevation, the pro- montory ; it is closed in the recent state by a membrane (membrana tympani secundaria, Scarpa). This membrane is concave towards the tympanum, convex towards the cochlea. It consists of three layers; the external or mucous, derived from the mucous lining of the tympanum; the internal or serous, from the lining membrane of the cochlea; and an intermediate or fibrous layer. The promontory is a rounded hollow prominence, formed by the projection outwards of the first turn of the cochlea; it is placed between the fenestrte, and furrowed on its surface by three small grooves, which lodge branches of the tympanic plexus. The rounded eminence of the aquseductus Falhpii is placed between the fenestra ovalis and roof of the tympanum; it is the prominence of the bony canal in which the portio dura is contained. It traverses the inner wall of the tympanum above the fenestra ovalis, and, behind that opening, curves nearly vertically downwards along the posterior wall. Tl\iQ pyramid is a conical eminence, situated immediately behind the fenestra ovalis, and in front of the vertical portion of the eminence above-described; it is hollow in the interior, and contains the Stapedius muscle; its summit projects forwards towards the vestibular fenestra, and presents a small aperture, which transmits the tendon of the muscle. The cavity in the pyramid is prolonged into a minute canal, which communicates with the aquaeductus Fallopii. The posterior wall of the tympanum is wider above than below, and presents for examination the Openings of the Mastoid Cells. These consist of one lai'ge irregular aperture, and several smaller openings, situated at the upper part of the posterior wall; they lead into canals, which com- municate with large irregular cavities contained in the interior of the mastoid