425 INFERIOR MESENTERIC, The ileo-colic artery is the lowest branch given off from the concavity of the superior mesenteric artery. It descends between the layers of the mesentery to the right iliac fossa, where it divides into two branches. Of these the inferior one inosculates with the lowest branches of the vasa intestini tenuis, from the convexity of which branches proceed to supply the termination of the ileum, the coecum and appendix coeci, and the ileo-coecal and ileo-colic valves. The superior division inosculates with the colica dextra, and supplies the commencement of the colon. The colica dextra arises from about the middle of the concavity of the superior mesenteric artery, and, passing beneath the peritoneum to the middle of the ascend- ing colon, divides into two branches ; a descending branch, which inosculates with the ileo-colic, and an ascending branch which anastomoses with the colica media. These branches form arches, from the convexity of which vessels are distributed to the ascending colon. The branches of this vessel are covered with peritoneum only on their anterior aspect. The colica media arises from the upper part of the concavity of the superior mesenteric, and, passing forwards between the layers of the transverse mesocolon, divides into two branches; the one on the right side inosculating with the colica dextra,'that on the left side with the colica sinistra, a branch of the inferior mesenteric. From the arches formed by their inosculation, branches are dis- tributed to the transverse colon. The branches of this vessel lie between two layers of peritoneum. Inferior Mesenteric Artery. In order to expose this vessel, draw the small intestines and mesentery over to the right side of the abdomen, raise the transverse colon towards the thorax, and divide the peritoneum cover- ing the left side of the aorta. The Inferior Mesenteric Artery (fig. 226) supplies the descending and sig- moid flexure of the colon, and greater part of the rectum. It is smaller than the superior mesenteric, and arises from the left side of the aorta, between one and two inches above its division into the common iliacs. It passes downwards to the left iliac fossa, and then descends; between the layers of the mesorectum, into the pelvis, under the name of the superior hemorrhoidal artery. It lies at first in close relation with the left side of the aorta, and then passes in front of the left common iliac artery. Its branches are the Colica sinistra. Sigmoid. Superior hemorrhoidal. The colica sinistra passes behind the peritoneum, in front of the left kidney, to reach the descending colon, and divides into two branches; an ascending branch, which inosculates with the colica media, and a descending branch, which anasto- moses with the sigmoid artery. From the arches formed by these inosculations, branches are distributed to the descending colon. The sigmoid artery runs obliquely downwards across the Psoas muscle to the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and divides into branches which supply that part of the intestine; anastomosing above, with the colica sinistra, and, below, with the superior hemorrhoidal artery. This vessel is sometimes replaced by three or four small branches. The superior hemorrhoidal artery, the continuation of the inferior mesen- teric, descends into the pelvis between the layers of the mesorectum, crossing, in its course, the ureter, and left common iliac vessels. Opposite the middle of the sacrum it divides into two branches, which descend one on each side of the rectum, where they divide into several small branches, which are distributed between the mucous and muscular coats of that tube, to near its lower end; anas- tomosing with each other, with the middle hemorrhoidal arteries, branches of the internal iliac, and with the inferior hemorrhoidal, branches of the internal pudic. The student should especially remark, that the trunk of the vessel descends