428 ARTERIES. tiie "body of the corresponding lumbar vertebra, behind the sympathetic nerve and the Psoas muscle; those on the right side being covered by the inferior vena cava, and the two upper ones on each side by the crura of the Diaphragm. In the interval between the transverse processes of the vertebrae, each artery divides into a dorsal and an abdominal branch. The dorsal branch gives off" immediately after its origin, a spinal branch, which enters the spinal canal; it then continues its course backwards, between the transverse processes, and is distributed to the muscles and integument of the back, anastomosing with its fellow, and with the posterior branches of the inter- costal arteries. The spinal branch, besides supplying offsets which run along the nerves to the dura mater and cauda equina, anastomosing with the other spinal arteries, divides into two branches, one of which ascends on the posterior surface of the body of the vertebra above, and the other descends on the posterior surface of the body of the vertebra below, both vessels anastomosing with similar branches from neigh- boring spinal arteries. The inosculations of these vessels on each side, throughout the whole length of the spine, form a series of arterial arches behind the bodies of the vertebrae, which are connected with each other, and with a median longi- tudinal vessel, extending along the middle of the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrae, by transverse branches. From these vessels offsets are distributed to the periosteum and bones. The abdominal branches pass outwards, behind the Quadratus lumborum, the lowest branch occasionally in front of that muscle, and, being continued between the abdominal muscles, anastomose with branches of the epigastric and internal mammary in front, the intercostals above, and those of the ilio-lumbar and circum- flex iliac, heloiv. Middle Saceal Aeteey. The Middle Sacral Artery is a small vessel, about the size of a crow-quill, which arises from the back part of the aorta, just at its bifurcation. It descends upon the last lumbar vertebra, and along the middle line of the front of the sacrum, to the upper part of the coccyx, where it terminates by anastomosing with the lateral sacral arteries. From it, branches arise which run through the mesorectum, to supply the posterior surface of the rectum. Other branches are given off on each side, which anastomose with the lateral sacral arteries, and send off" small offsets which enter the anterior sacral foramina. Common Iliac Aeteeies. The abdominal aorta divides into the two common iliac arteries. The bifurcation usually takes place on the left side of the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra. This point corresponds to the left side of the umbilicus, and is on a level with a line drawn from the highest point of one iliac crest to the other. The common iliac arteries are about two inches in length; diverging from the termination of the aorta, they pass downwards and outwards to the margin of the pelvis, and divide opposite the intervertebral substance, between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum, into two branches, the external and internal iliac arteries; the former supplying the lower extremity; the latter, the viscera and parietes of the pelvis. The right common iliac is somewhat larger than the left, and passes more ob- liquely across the body of the last lumbar vertebra. It is covered by the peri- toneum, the ileum, the branches of the sympathetic nerve; and crossed, at its point of division, by the ureter. Behind, it is separated from the last lumbar vertebra, by the two common iliac veins. On its outer side, it is in relation with the inferior vena cava, and right common iliac vein, above; and the Psoas magnus muscle, below. The left common iliac is in relation, in front, Avith the peritoneum, branches of the sympathetic nerve, the rectum and superior hemorrhoidal artery; and crossed, at its point of bifurcation, by the ureter. The left common iliac vein lies partly