OSTEOLOGY. no Fig. 112.—Plan of the Development of the Fibula. By 3 Centres. aiout l^.'y- txfr, Vmtcs about25 Its upper three-fourths are divided into an anterior and a posterior portion by a very prominent ridge already mentioned, the oblique line of the fibula. The anterior portion is directed inwards, and is grooved for the attachment of the Tibialis posticus muscle. The posterior portion is continuous below with the rough triangular surface above the articular facet of the outer malleolus; it is directed backwards above, backwards and inwards at its middle, directly inwards below. Its upper fourth is rough, for the attachment of the Soleus muscle: its lower part presents a triangular rough surface, connected to the tibia by a strong interosseous ligament, and between these two points the entire surface is covered by the fibres of origin of the Flexor longus pollicis muscle. At about the middle of this surface is the nutritious foramen, which is directed downwards. In order to distinguish the side to which the bone belongs, hold it with the lower extremity downwards, and the broad groove for the Peronei tendons backwards, to- wards the holder, the triangular subcutaneous surface will then be directed to the side to which the bone belongs. Articulations. With two bones: the tibia and astragalus. Dtvelopmerd. By three centres (fig. 112): one for the shaft, an'd one for each extremity. Ossification commences in the shaft about the sixth week of foetal life, a little later than in the tibia, and extends gradually towards the extremities. At birth both ends are cartilaginous. Ossification commences in the lower end in the second year, and in the upper one about the fourth year. The lower epiphysis, the first in which ossification commences, becomes united to the shaft about the twentieth year, con- trary to the law which appears to prevail with regard to the junction of the epiphysis with the shaft; the upper one is joined about the twenty- fifth year. Attachment of Muscles. To the head; the Biceps, Soleus, and Peroneus longus. To the shaft, its anterior surface; the Extensor longus digitorum, Peroneus tertius, and Extensor lon- gus pollicis: to the internal surface; the Soleus, Tibialis posticus, and Flexor longus pollicis: to the external surface; the Peroneus longus and brevis. Aiypmrs at ZV4 -1^ Vn itea about ZO^y ' 0^ THE FOOT. The Foot (figs. 113 and 114) is the terminal part of the inferior extremity; it serves to support the body in the erect posture, and is an important instrument of locomotion. It consists of three divisions: the Tarsus, Metatarsus, and Phalanges. The Tarsus. The bones of the Tarsus are seven in number; viz., the calcaneum or os calcis, astragalus, cuboid, scaphoid, internal, middle, and external cuneiform bones. The Calcaneum. The Calcaneum or Os Calcis is the largest and strongest of the tarsal bones. It is irregularly cuboidal in form, and situated at the lower and back part of the