694 THE THORAX. The Eight Ventricle is triangular in form, and extends from the right auricle to near the apex. Its anterior or upper surface is rounded and convex, and forms the Larger part of the front of the heart. Its posterior or under surface is flattened, rests upon the Diaphragm, and forms only a small part of this surface. Its inner wall is formed by the partition between the two ventricles, the septum ventricu- lorum, the surface of which is convex, and bulges into the cavity of the right ventricle. Superiorly, the ventricle forms a conical prolongation, the infundi- bulum or comis arteriosus, from which the pulmonary artery arises. The walls of the right ventricle are thinner than those of the left, the proportion betAveen them being as 1 to 2 (Bizot). The thickest part of the wall is at the base, and it gradually becomes thinner towards the apex. Its cavity, which equals that of the left ventricle, is capable of containing about two fluid ounces. To examine its interior, an incision should be made a little to the right of the anterior ven- tricular groove from the pulmonary artery to the apex of the heart, and from thence carried up along the right border of the ventricle, as far as the auriculo-ventricular opening. The following parts present themselves for examination:— ^ . j Auriculo-ventricular. penings . . | Opening of the pulmonary artery. Val 'es i '^^"^*^^^^P^^^- * ■ ■ I Semilunar, And a muscular and tendinous apparatus connected with the tricuspid valves:— Columnse carneae. Chordae tendinese. The auriculo-ventricular orifice is the large oval aperture of communication between the auricle and ventricle. It is situated at the base of the ventricle, near the right border of the heart, and corresponds to the centre of the sternum between the third costal cartilages. The opening is about an inch in diameter, oval from side to side, surrounded by a fibrous ring, covered by the lining mem- brane of the heart, and is rather larger than the corresponding aperture on the left side, being sufficiently large to admit the ends of three fingers. It is guarded by the tricuspid valve. The oj)ening of the pulmonary artery is circular in form, and sitviated at the summit of the conus arteriosus, close to the septum ventriculorum. It is placed on the left side of the auriculo-ventricular opening, upon the anterior aspect of the heart, and corresponds to the upper border of the third costal cartilage of the left side, close to the sternum. Its orifice is guarded by the semilunar valves. The trictisjnd valve consists of three segments of a triangular or trapezoidal shape, formed by a duplicature of the lining membrane of the heart, strengthened by a layer of fibrous tissue, and containing, according to Kiirschner and Senac, muscular fibres. These segments are connected by their bases to the auriculo- ventricular orifice, and by their sides with one another, so as to form a continuous annular membrane, which is attached round the margin of the auriculo-ventricular opening, their free margins and ventricular surfaces afibrding attachment to a num- ber of delicate tendinous cords, the chordx tendinese. The largest and most mov- able segment is placed towards the left side of the auriculo-ventricular opening interposed between it and the pulmonary artery. Another segment corresponds to the front of the ventricle; and a third to its posterior Avail. The central part of each segment is thick and strong; and the lateral margins are thin and indented. The chordaa tendineae are connected with the adjacent margins of the principal segments of the valve, and are further attached to each segment in the following manner:—1. Three or four reach the attached margin of each segment, where they are continuous with the auriculo-ventricular tendinous ring. 2. Others, four to six in number, are attached to the central thickened part of each segment. 3. The most numerous and finest are connected with the marginal portion of each segment.