188 ARTICUJLATIONS. AETICULATIONS OF THE TEUNK. These may be divided into the following groups, viz :- I. Of the vertebral column. Y. II. Of the atlas with the axis. VI. III. Of the spine with the cranium. 1. Of the atlas with the occipital bone. VII. 2. Of the axis with the occipital bone. VIII. IV. Of the lower jaw. IX. Of the ribs with the vertebrae. Of the cartilages of the ribs with the sternum, and with each other Of the sternum. Of the pelvis with the spine. Of the pelvis. I. ARTICULATIONS OF THE YBRTEBRAL COLUMN. The different segments of the spine are connected together by ligaments, which admit of the same arrangement as the vertebrae. They may be divided into five sets. 1. Those connecting the todies of the vertebrae. 2. Those connecting the laminse. 3. Those connecting the articular processes. 4. The ligaments con- necting the spinous processes. 6. Those of the transverse processes. The articulation of the bodies of the vertebrae with each other forms a series of amphiarthrodial joints; whilst those between the articular processes form a series •of arthrodial joints. 1. The Ligaments of the Bodies. Anterior Common Ligament. Posterior Common Ligament. Intervertebral Substance. The Anterior Common Ligament (fig. 116) is a broad and strong band of liga- mentous fibres, which extends along the front surface of the bodies of the vertebrae, from the axis to the sacrum. It is broader below than above, and thicker in the , dorsal than in the cervical or lumbar regions; it is also somewhat thicker opposite the front of the body of each vertebra, than opposite the intervertebral substance. It is attached, above, to the body of the axis by a pointed process, which is con- nected with the tendon of origin of the Longus colli muscle; and extends down as far as the upper bone of the sacrum. It consists of dense longitudinal fibres, which are intimately adherent to the intervertebral substance and prominent margins of the vertebrae, but less closely with the middle of the bodies. In the latter situation the fibres are exceedingly thick, -and serve to fill up the concavities on their front surface, and to make the anterior surface of the spine more even. This ligament is composed of several layers of fibres, which vary in length, but are closely interlaced with each other. The most superficial or longest fibres extend between four or five vertebrae. A second subjacent set extend between two or three vertebrae; whilst a third set, the shortest and deepest, extend from one vertebra to the next. At the sides of the bodies, this ligament consists of a few short fibres, which pass from one vertebra to the next, separated from the median portion by large oval apertures, for the passage of vessels. The Posterior Common Ligament is situated within the spinal canal, and extends along the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrae, from the body of the axis above, where it is continuous with the occipito-axoid ligament, to the sacrum belovv. It is broader at the upper than at the lower part of the spine, and thicker in the dorsal than in the cervical or lumbar regions. In the situation of the intervertebral substance and contiguous margins of the vertebrae, where the ligament is more intimately adherent, it is broad, and presents a series of dentations with intervening concave margins; but it is narrow .and thick over the centre of the bodies, from which it is separated by the vense basis vertebrse. This ligament is^ composed of smooth, shining, longitudinal fibres, denser and more com- pact than those of the anterior ligament, and composed of a superficial layer