ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 686 wliole substance of tlie pulp, filling up tlie interspaces formed by the partitions of tbe spleen, and lying in close contact with the walls of the capillary vessels, so as to be readily acted upon by the nutrient fluid which permeates them. These elements form a large part of the entire bulk of the spleen in well-nourished ani- mals ; whilst they diminish in number, and occasionally are wanting, in starved animals. The application of chemical tests shows that they are essentially a pro- tein compound. The colored elements of the pulp consist of red blood-globules and of colored corpuscles, either free, or included in cells. Sometimes, unchanged blood-disks are seen included in a cell; but more frequently the included blood-disks are altered both in form and color. Besides these, numerous deep-red, or reddish- yellow, or black corpuscles and crystals, either single or aggregated in masses, are seen diffused throughout the pulp-substance; these, in chemical composition, are closely allied to the heematin of the blood. Malpighian Corjjuscles.—On examining the cut surface of a healthy spleen, a number of small semi-opaque bodies, of gelatinous consistence, are seen dissemi- nated throughout its substance; these are the splenic or Malpighian corpuscles Fig. 348.—The Malpighian Corpuscles, and thoir Relation with the Splenic Artery and its Branches. (fig. 348). They may be seen at all periods of life; but they are more distinct in early life, than in adult life or old age; and they are much smaller in man, than in most mammalia. They are of a spherical or ovoid form, vary considerably in size and number, and are of a semi-opaque whitish color. They are appended to the sheatlis of the smaller arteries and their branches, presenting a resemblance to the buds of the moss rose. Each consists of a membranous capsule, composed of fine pale fibres, which interlace in all directions. In man, the capsule is homo- geneous in structure, and formed by a prolongation from the sheaths of the small arteries to which the corpuscles are attached. The bloodvessels ramifying on the surface of the corpuscles consist of the larger ramifications of the arteries to which the sacculus is connected; and also of a delicate capillary plexus, similar to that surrounding the vesicles of other glands. These vesicles have also a close relation with the veins (fig. 349). These vessels, which are of considerable