109 NASAL FOSS^. two for-amina, tlie anterior and posterior ethmoidal, tlie former transmitting the anterior ethmoidal artery and nasal nerve, the latter the posterior ethmoidal artery and vein. The inferior external angle, formed by the junction of the outer wall and floor, presents. the spheno-maxillary fissure, which transmits the infra- orbital vessels and nerve, and the ascending branches from the spheno-palatine ganglion. The inferior internal angle is formed by the union of the lachrymal bone and OS planum of the ethmoid, with the superior maxillary and palate bones. The circumference or base of the orbit, quadrilateral in form, is bounded above by the supra-orbital arch; below, by the anterior border of the orbital plate of the malar, superior maxillary, and lachrymal bones; externally, by the external angular process of the frontal and the malar bone; internally, by the internal angular process of the frontal, and the nasal process of the superior maxillary. The circumference is marked by three sutures, the fronto-maxillary internally, the fronto-malar externally, and the malo-maxillary below; it contributes to the formation of the lachrymal groove, and presents, above, the supra-orbital notch or foramen, for the passage of the supra-orbital artery, veins, and nerve. The apex, situated at the back of the orbit, corresponds to the optic foramen, a short circular canal, which transmits the optic nerve and ophthalmic artery. It will thus be seen that there are nine openings communicating Avith each orbit, viz., the optic, foramen lacerum anterius, spheno-maxillary fissure, supra-orbital fora- men, infra-orbital canal, anterior and posterior ethmoidal foramina, malar foramina, and lachrymal canal. The Nasal Fossje. Thb Nasal Fossse are two large irregular cavities, situated in the middle line of the face, extending from the base of the cranium to the roof of the mouth, and separated from each other by a thin vertical septum. They communicate by two large apertures, the anterior nares, with the front of the face; and with the pharynx behind by the two posterior nares. These fossae are much narrower above than below, and in the middle than at the anterior or posterior openings: their depth, which is considerable, is much greater in the middle than at either extremity. Each nasal fossa communicates with four sinuses, the frontal above, the sphenoidal behind, and the maxillary and ethmoidal on either side. Each fossa also commu- nicates with four cavities: with the orbit by the lachrymal canal, with the mouth by the anterior palatine canal, with the cranium by the olfactory foramina, and with the spheno-maxillary fossa by the spheno-palatine foramen; and they occa- sionally communicate with each other by an aperture in the septum. The bones entering into their formation are fourteen in number: three of the cranium, the frontal, sphenoid, and ethmoid, and all the bones of the face excepting the malar and lower jaw. Each cavity is bounded by a roof, a floor, an inner and an outer wall. The upper wall or roof (fig. 66) is long, narrow, and concave from before back- wards ; it is formed in front by the nasal bones and nasal spine of the frontal, which are directed downwards and forwards; in the middle, by the cribriform lamella of the ethmoid, which is horizontal; and behind, by the under surface of the body of the sphenoid, and sphenoidal turbinated bones, which are directed downwards and backwards. This surface presents, from before backwards, the internal aspect of the nasal bones; on their outer side, the suture formed between the nasal, with the nasal process of the superior maxillary; on their inner side, the elevated crest which receives the nasal spine of the frontal, and the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, and articulates with its fellow of the opposite side; whilst the surface of the bones is perforated by a few small vascular apertures, and presents the longitudinal groove for the nasal nerve: further back is the transverse suture, connecting the frontal with the nasal in front, and the ethmoid behind, the olfactory foramina on the under surface of the cribriform plate, and the suture between it and the sphenoid behind: quite posteriorly are seen the sphenoidal turbinated bones, the orifices of the sphenoidal sinuses, and the articulation of the alee of the- vomer with the under surface of the body of the sphenoid.