553 SPHENO-PALATINE GANGLION. The posterior or small palatine nerve descends with a small artery through the small posterior palatine canal, emerging by a separate opening behind the posterior palatine foramen. It supplies the Levator palati and Azygos nvulte muscles, the soft palate, tonsil, and uvula. The Internal branches are distributed to the septum, and outer wall of the nasal fossas. They are the superior nasal (anterior), and the naso-palatine. The superior nasal branches (anterior), four or five in number, enter the back part of the nasal fossa by the spheno-palatine foramen. They supply the miicous membrane, covering the superior and middle spongy bones, and that lining the posterior ethmoidal cells, a few being prolonged to the upper and back part of the septum. The naso-palatine nerve (Cotunnius) enters the nasal fossa with the other nasal nerves, and passes inwards across the roof of the nose, below the orifice of the sphenoidal sinus, to reach the septum; it then runs obliquely downwards and forwards along the lower part of the septum, to the anterior palatine foramen, lying between the periosteum and mucous membrane. It descends to the roof of the mouth by a distinct canal, which opens below in the anterior palatine fossa; the right nerve, also in a separate canal, being posterior to the left one. In the mouth, they become united, and supply the mucous membrane behind the incisor teeth, joining with the anterior palatine nerve. It occasionally furnishes a few small filaments to the mucous membrane of the septum. Fig. 281.—-The Spheno-palatine Ganglion and its Branches. The Posterior Iranches are the Vidian and pharyngeal or pterygo-palatine. The Vidian arises from the back part of the spheno-palatine ganglion, passes through the Vidian canal, enters the cartilage filling in the foramen lacerum basis cranii, and divides into two branches, the large petrosal and the carotid. In its course along the Vidian canal, it distributes a few filaments to the lining membrane at the back part of the roof of the nose and septum, and that covering the end of the Eustachian tube. These are upper posterior nasal branches. The large j>etrosal hranch {nervus petrosus superficialis major) enters the craniitm through the foramen lacerum basis cranii, having pierced the cartilaginous sub- stance filling in this aperture. It runs beneath the Casserian ganglion and dura