658 CRANIAL NERVES. from the lower part of which two cords descend upon the cssophagus, on which they divide, forming, with branches from the opposite nerve, the oesophageal plexus; below, these branches are collected into a single cord, which runs along the back part of the oesophagus, enters the abdomen, and is distributed to the posterior surface of the stomach, joining the left side of the coeliac plexus, and the splenic plexus. On the left side, the pneumogastric nerve enters the chest, between the left carotid and subclavian arteries, behind the left innominate vein. It crosses the arch of the aorta, and descends behind the root of the left lung, and along the anterior surface of the oesophagus to the stomach, distributing branches over its anterior surface, some extending over the great cul-de-sac, and others along the lesser curvature. Filaments from these latter branches enter the gastro-hepatic omentum, and join the left hepatic plexus. The ganglion of the root is of a grayish color, circular in form, about two lines in diameter, and resembles the ganglion on the large root of the fifth nerve. Coymecting branches. To this ganglion the accessory portion of the spinal accessory nerve is connected by several delicate filaments; it also has an anasto- motic twig with the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal, with the facial nerve by means of the auricular branch, and with the sympathetic by means of an ascending filament from the superior cervical ganglion. The ganglion of the trunk (inferior) is a plexiform cord, cylindrical in form, of a reddish color, and about an inch in length; it involves the whole of the fibres of the nerve, except the portion of the accessory nerve derived from the spinal accessory, which blends with the nerve beyond the ganglion. Connecting branches. This ganglion is connected with the hypoglossal, the supe- rior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and with the loop between the first and second cervical nerves. The branches of the i^neumogastric are— In the jugular fossa . . Auricular. In the neck. ' Pharyngeal. Superior laryngeal. Kecurrent laryngeal. Cervical cardiac. Thoracic cardiac. In the thorax. • . J Anterior pulmonary. I rostenor pulmonary. [ (Esophageal. In the abdomen . . . Gastric. The Auricular branch arises from the ganglion of the root, and is joined soon after its origin by a filament from the glosso-pharyngeal; it crosses the jugular fossa to an opening near the root of the styloid process. Traversing the substance of the temporal bone, it crosses the aquaBductus Fallopii about two lines above its termination at the stylo-mastoid foramen; it here gives off aa ascending branch, which joins the facial, and a descending branch, which anastomoses with the pos- ■terior auricular branch of the same nerve; the continuation of the nerve reaches the surface between the mastoid process and the external auditory meatus, and supplies the integument at the back part of the pinna. The Pharyngeal branch, the principal motor nerve of the pharynx and soft palate, arises from the upper part of the inferior ganglion of the pneumogastric, receiving a filament from the accessory portion of the spinal accessory; it passes across the internal carotid artery (in front or behind), to the upper border of the Middle constrictor, where it divides into numerous filaments, which anastomose with those from the glosso-pharyngeal, superior laryngeal, and sympathetic, to form the pharyngeal plexus, from which branches are distributed to the muscles and mucous membrane of the pharynx. As this nerve crosses the internal carotid, some filaments are distributed, together with those from the glosso-pharyngeal, upon the wall of this vessel.