443 POPLITEAL SPACE. between the Pectineus and Psoas muscles. On reaching the tendon of the Obtu- rator externus, it divides into two branches; one, ascending, is distributed to the Adductor muscles, the Gracilis, and Obturator externus, anastomosing with the obturator artery, the other descending, which passes beneath the Adductor brevis, to supply it and the great Adductor; the continuation of the vessel passing back- wards, between the Quadratus femoris and upper border of the Adductor magnus, anastomosing with the sciatic, external circumflex, and superior perforating arte- ries. Opposite the hip-joint, this branch gives off* an articular vessel, which enters the joint beneath the transverse ligament; and, after supplying the adipose tissue, passes along the round ligament to the head of the bone. The Perforating Arteries (fig. 230), usually three in number, are so called from their perforating the tendons of the Adductor brevis and Adductor magnus muscles to reach the back of the thigh. The first is given off' above the A dductor brevis, the second in front of that muscle, and the third immediately below it. The first or superior perforating artery passes backwards between the Pectineus and Adductor brevis (sometimes perforates the latter); it then pierces the Adduc- tor magnus close to the linea aspera, and divides into branches which supply both Adductors, the Biceps, and Gluteus maximus muscle; anastomosing with the sciatic, internal circumflex, and middle perforating arteries. The second or middle perforating artery, larger than the first, pierces the tendons of the Adductor brevis and Adductor magnus muscles, divides into ascending and descending branches, which supply the Flexor muscles of the thigh, anasto- mosing with the superior and inferior perforantes. The nutrient artery of the femur is usually given off from this branch. The third or inferior perforating artery is given off below the Adductor brevis; it pierces the Adductor magnus, and divides into branches which supply the Flexor muscles of the thigh, anastomosing with the perforating arteries, above, and with the terminal branches of the profunda, below. Muscular Branches are given off from the superficial femoral throvighout its entire course. They vary from two to seven in number, and supply chiefly the Sartorius and Vastus internus. The Anastomotica Magna arises from the femoral artery just before it passes through the tendinous opening in tlie Adductor magnus muscle, and divides into a superficial and deep branch. The superficial branch accompanies the long saphenous nerve, beneath the Sartorius, and, piercing the fascia lata, is distributed to the integument. The deep branch descends in the substance of the Vastus internus, lying in front of the tendon of the Adductor magnus, to the inner side of the knee, where it anastomoses with the superior internal articular artery and recurrent branch of the anterior tibial. A branch from this vessel crosses outwards above the articular surface of the femur, forming an anastomotic arch with the superior external arti- cular artery, and supplies branches to the knee-joint. The Popliteal Space. Dissection. A vertical incision about eight inches in length should be made along the back part of the knee-joint, connected above and below by a transverse incision passing from the inner to the outer side of the limb. The flaps of integument included between these incisions should be reflected in the direction shown in tig. 189. On removing the integument, the superficial fascia is exposed, and ramifying in it along the middle line are found some filaments of the small sciatic nerve, and, towards the inner part, some offsets from the internal cutaneous nerve. The superficial fascia having been removed, the fascia lata is brought into view. In this region it is strong and dense, being strengthened by transverse fibres, and firmly attached to the tendons on the inner and outer sides of the space. It is perforated below by the external saphenous vein. This fascia having been reflected back in the same direction as the integument, the small sciatic nerve and external