19T Articulation. TEMPORO-MAXILLAKY. The Capsular Ligament consists of a thin and loose ligamentous capsule, attached above to the circumference of the glenoid cavity and the articular surface immediately in front; below, to the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw. _ It consists of a few, thin scattered fibres, and can hardly be considered as a distinct ligament; it is thickest at the back part of the articulation. The Interarticular fibro-cartilage (fig. 123) is a thin plate of an oval form, placed horizontally between the condyle of the jaw and the glenoid cavity. Its upper surface is concave from before backwards, and a little convex transversely, to accommodate itself to the fornn of the glenoid cavity. Its under sur- Fig- 123.-Vertical Section of Temporo-maxiUary face, where it is in contact with the condyle, is concave. Its circumfer- ence is connected externally to the external lateral ligament, internally to the capsular ligament; and in front to the tendon of the External ptery- goid muscle. It is thicker at its cir- cumference, especially behind, than at its centre, where it is sometimes perforated. The fibres of which it is composed have a concentric ar- rangement, more apparent at the cir- cumference than at the centre. Its surfaces are smooth, and divide the joint into two cavities, each of which is furnished with a separate synovial membrane. "When the fibro-cartilage is perforated, the synovial membranes are continuous with one another. The Synovial Membranes, two in number, are placed one above, and the other below, the fibro-cartilage. The upper one, the larger and looser of the two, is con- tinued from the margin of the cartilage covering the glenoid cavity and eminentia articularis, over the upper surface of the fibro-cartilage. The lower one is inter- posed between the under surface of the fibro-cartilage and the condyle of the jaw, being prolonged downwards a little further behind than in front. The Nerves of this joint are derived from the auriculo-temporal, and masseteric branches of the inferior maxillary. Actions. The movements permitted in this articulation are very extensive. Thus, the jaw may be depressed or elevated, or it may" be carried forwards or backwards, or from side to side. It is by the alternation of these movements performed in succession, that a kind of rotatory movement of the lower jaw upon the upper takes place, which materially assists in the mastication of the food. If the movement of depression is carried only to a slight extent, the condyles remain in the glenoid cavities, their anterior part descending only to a slight extent; but if depression is considerable, the condyles glide from the glenoid fossae on to the eminentia articularis, carrying with them the interarticular fibro-cartilages. When this movement is carried to too great an extent, as, for instance, during a convulsive yawn, dislocation of the condyle into the zygomatic fossa occurs; the interarticular cartilage being carried forwards, and the capsular ligament rup- tured. When the jaw is elevated, the condyles and fibro-cartilages are carried backwards into their original position. When the jaw is carried forwards or backwards, a horizontal gliding movement of the fibro-cartilages and condyles upon the glenoid cavities takes place in the antero-posterior direction; whilst in the movement from side to side, this occurs in the lateral direction. \. AETICULATION OF THE KIBS WITH THE VERTEBRA. The articulation of the ribs with the vertebral column may be divided into two sets. 1. Those which connect the heads of the ribs with the bodies of the verte-