OSTEOLOGY. 110 Tlie floor is flattened from before backwards, concave from side to side, and wider in tlae middle than at either extremity. It is formed in front by the palate process of the superior maxillary; behind, by the palate process of the palate bone. This surface presents, from before backwards, the anterior nasal spine; behind this, the upper orifice of the anterior palatine canal; internally, the elevated crest which articulates with the vomer; and behind, the suture between the palate and superior maxillary bones, and the posterior nasal spine. Fig. 66. -Roof, Floor, and Outer Wall of Nasal Fosseb. N'asnl ^oni Wasal Sjnm of FrontalBoM Em-iximtalFlaU ofMthm'ul FJoor Ant.Nasal S'jJine Palate rroc. of Suf Max- rdLaU Froc. ofTa/aU Pose.Nasal Spine, Am. Palatuu Canul Prole passed ihnmcjJ^ ^—Naso-laehrymal Canal Bristle passedthrou^ InfLtvdibalu/m. Ou ter Wall, PToc.ofSu^Ma ^ J,n.ih.rifmaL I .f \/ r^U nmi Li mzeiformi^"" <f ditto Inftnirr TurbiTmlci Palate SujicTWr Mcatui Middh Meatus LferioT Meatus The inner ivall or septum (fig. 67) is a thin vertical partition, which separates the nasal fosste from one another; it is occasionally perforated so that the fossae communicate, and it is frequently deflected considerably to one side. It is formed, in front, by the crest of the nasal bones and nasal spine of the frontal; in the middle, by the perpendicular lamella of the ethmoid; behind, by the vomer and rostrum of the sphenoid; below, by the crest of the superior maxillary and palate bones. It presents, in front, a large triangular notch, which receives the triangular cartilage of the nose; above, the lower orifices of the olfactory canals; and behind, the guttural edge of the vomer. Its surface is marked by numerous vascular and nervous canals, and traversed by sutures connecting the bones of which it is formed. The outer wall is formed, in front, by the nasal process of the superior maxillary and lachrymal bones; in the middle, by the ethmoid and inner surface of the superior maxillary and inferior turbinated bones; behind, by the vertical plate of the palate bone. This surface presents three irregular longitudinal passages or meatuses, formed between three horizontal plates of bone that spring from it; they are termed the superior, middle, and inferior meatuses of the nose. The superior meatus, the smallest of the three, is situated at the upper and back part of each nasal fossa, occupying the posterior third of the outer wall. It is situated between the superior and middle turbinated bones, and has opening into it two foramina, the spheno-palatine at the back part of its outer wall, the posterior ethmoidal cells