OSSICLES OF THE TYMPANUM. 635 attached to the membrana tympani, the latter to the fenestra ovalis, the incus being placed between the two, to both of which it is connected by delicate articulations. The Malleus, so named from its fancied resemblance to a hammer, consists of a head, neck, handle or manubrium, and two processes, viz., the processus gracilis and the processus brevis. The liead is the large upper extremity of the bone; it is oval in shape, and articulates posteriorly with the incus, being free in the rest of its extent. The neclc is the narrow contracted part just beneath the head; and below this is a prominence, to which the various processes are attached. The manuhrium is a vertical portion of bone, which is connected by its outer margin with the membrana tympani. It decreases in size towards its extremity, where it is curved slightly forwards, and flattened from within ovit wards. The processus gracilis is a long and very delicate process, which passes from the eminence below the neck forwards and outwards to the Glaserian fissure, to which it is connected by bone and ligamentous fibres. It gives attachment to the Laxator tympani. The processus brevis is a slight conical projection, which springs from the root of the manubrium, and lies in contact with the membrana tympani. Its summit gives attachment to the Tensor tympani. The Lie as has received its name from its resemblance to an anvil, but it does not look unlike a bicuspid tooth, with two roots, which differ in length, and are widely , ' J n 1 ii T^ ■ ^ 4? FiR- 315.—The Small Bones of the Ear, seen separated from each other. It consists of a from the Outside. (Enlarged.) body and two processes. The body is somewhat quadrilateral, but compressed laterally. Its summit is deeply concave, and articulates with the malleus; in the fresh state, it is covered with cartilage and lined with synovial membrane. The two processes diverge from one another nearly at right angles. The short process, somewhat conical in shape, projects nearly horizontally back- wards, and is attached to the margin of the opening leading into the mastoid cells by ligamentous fibres. The long process, longer and more slender than the preceding, descends nearly vertically behind the handle of the malleus, and, bending inwards, terminates in a rounded globular projection, the os orbiculare, tipped with cartilage, and articu- lating with the head of the stapes. In the foetus the os orbiculare exists as a separate bone, but becomes united to the long process of the incus in the adult. The Stapes, so called from its close resemblance to a stirrup, consists of a head, neck, two branches, and a base. The head presents a depression, tipped with cartilage, which articulates Avith the OS orbiculare. The neck, the constricted part of the bone below the head, receives the insertion of the Stapedius muscle. The two branches or crura diverge from the neck, and are connected at their extremities by a flattened, oval-shaped plate (the base), which forms the foot of the stirrup, and is fixed to the margin of the fenestra ovalis by ligamentous fibres. Ligaments of the Ossicula. These small bones are connected with each other, and with the tympanum, by ligaments, and moved by small muscles. The articular siirfaces of the malleus and incus, the orbicular process of the incus and the head of the stapes, are covered with cartilage, connected together by delicate capsular ligaments, and lined by synovial membrane. The ligaments connecting the ossicula with the walls of the tympanum are three in number, one for each bone.