515 CEREBRIJM. tlie floor of tlie fourth ventricle as the fasciculi teretes; tliey ascend to the deep or cerebral part of the crus cerebri. Foville considers that a few fibres from each of the longitudinal tracts of the medulla turn forwards, and are continuous with the transverse fibres of the pons. Septum. The pons is subdivided into two lateral halves by a median septum, which extends through its posterior half. The septum consists of antero-posterior and transverse fibres. The former are derived from the floor of the fourth ven- tricle and from the transverse fibres of the pons, which bend backwards before passing across to the opposite side. The latter are derived from the floor of the fourth ventricle; they pierce the longitudinal fibres, and are then continued across from one to the other side of the medulla, piercing the antero-posterior fibres. The two halves of the pons, in front, are connected together by transverse com- missural fibres. CEREBEUM. Upper Sueface. The Cerebrum, in man, constitutes the largest portion of the encephalon. Its upper surface is of an ovoidal form, broader behind than in front, convex in its general outline, and divided into two lateral halves or hemispheres, right and left, by the great longitudinal fissure. This fissure extends throughout the entire length of the cerebrum in the middle line, reaching down to the base of the brain in front and behind, but interrupted in the middle by a broad transverse cornmissure of white matter, the corpus callosum, which connects the two hemi- spheres together. This fissure lodges the falx cerebri, and indicates the original development of the brain by two lateral halves. Each hemisphere presents an outer surface, which is convex, to correspond with the vault of the cranium; an inner surface, flattened, and in contact with the opposite hemisphere, the two inner surfaces forming the sides of the longitudinal fissure; and an under surface or base, of more irregular form, which rests, in front, on the anterior and middle fossse at the base of the skull, and, behind, upon the tentorium. Convolutions. If the pia mater is removed with the forceps, the entire surface of each hemisphere will present a number of convoluted eminences, the convolu- tions, separated from each other" by depressions {sulci) of various depths. The outer surface of each convolution, as well as the sides and bottom of the sulci between them, are composed of gray matter, which is here called the cortical sub- stance. The interior of each convolution is composed of white matter, and white fibres also blend Avith the gray matter at the sides and bottom of the siilci. By this arrangement the convolutions are admirably adapted to increase the amount of gray matter without occupying much additional space, and also afford a greater extent of surface for the fibres to terminate in it. On closer examination, how- ever, the gray matter of the cortical substance is found subdivided into four layers, two of which are composed of gray and two of white substance. The most external is an outer white stratum, not equally thick over all parts of the brain, being most marked on the convolutions in the longitudinal fissure and on the under part of the brain, especially on the middle lobe, near the descending horn of the lateral ventricle. Beneath the latter is a thick I'eddish gray lamina, and then another thin white stratum; lastly, a thin stratum of gray matter,, which lies in close contact with the white fibres of the hemispheres; consequently white and gray laminae alternate with one another in the gray matter of the convolu- tions. In certain convolutions, however, the cortical substance consists of no less than six layers, three gray and three white, an additional white stratum dividing the most superficial gray one into two; this is especially marked in those convo- lutions which are situated near the corpus callosum. A perfect resemblance between the convolutions does not exist in all brains,