GANGLIA OF THE FIFTH NERVE. 551 wMch crosses the internal maxillary artery. The chorda tympani also joins it at an acute angle in this situation. The nerve then passes between the Internal pterygoid muscle and the inner side of the ramus of the jaw, and crosses obliquely to the side of the tongue over the Superior constrictor muscle of the pharynx, and between the Stylo-glossus muscle and deep part of the submaxillary gland; the nerve lastly runs across Wharton's duct, and along the side of the tongue to its apex, being covered by the mucous membrane of the mouth. Its branches of communication are with the submaxillary ganglion and hypo- glossal nerve. The branches to the submaxillary ganglion are two or three in number; those connected with the hypoglossal nerve form a plexus at the anterior margin of the Hyo-glossus muscle. Its branches of distribution are few in number. They supply the mucous mem- brane of the mouth, the gums, the sublingual gland, the conical and fungiform papillae and mucous membrane of the tongue, the terminal filaments anastomosing at the tip of this organ with the hypoglossal nerve. The Inferior Dental is the largest of the three branches of the inferior maxillary nerve. It passes downwards with the inferior dental artery, at first beneath the External pterygoid muscle, and then between the internal lateral ligament and the ramus of the jaw to the dental foramen. It then passes forwards in the dental canal in the inferior maxillary bone, 13'ing beneath the teeth, as far as the mental foramen, where it divides into two terminal branches, incisor and mental. The incisor branch is continued onwards within the bone to the middle line, and supplies the canine and incisor teeth. The mental branch emerges from the bone at the mental foramen, and divides beneath the Depressor auguli oris into an external branch, which supplies this muscle, the Orbicularis oris, and the integument, communicating with the facial nerve; and an inner branch, which asc6nds. to the lower lip beneath the Quadratus menti and supplies this muscle and the mucous membrane and integument of the lip, communicating with the facial nerve. The branches of the inferior dental are the mylo-hyoid and dental. The Mylo-hyoid is divided from the inferior dental just as that nerve is about to enter the dental foramen. It descends in a groove on the inner surface of the ramus of the jaw, in which it is retained by a process of fibrous membrane. It supplies the cutaneous surface of the Mylo-hyoid muscle, and the anterior belly of the Digastric, occasionally sending one or two filaments to the submaxillary gland. The Dental branches supply the molar and bicuspid teeth. They correspond in number to the fangs of those teeth; each nerve entering the orifice at the point of the fang, and supplying the pulp of the tooth. Two small ganglia are connected with the inferior maxillary nerve: the otic, with the trunk of the nerve; and the submaxillary, with its lingual branch, the gustatory. Ganglia connected with the Fifth Nerve. Connected with the three divisions of the fifth nerve are four small ganglia, which form the whole of the cephalic portion of the sympathetic. With the first division is connected the ophthalmic ganglion; with the second division, the spheno- palatine or Meckel's ganglion; and with the third, the otic and submaxillary ganglia. These ganglia receive sensitive filaments from the fifth, and motor and sympathetic filaments from various sources; these filaments are called the roots of the ganglia. The ganglia are also connected with each other, and with the cervical portion of the sympathetic. (1.) Ophthalmic or Ciliary Ganglion. The Ophthalmic, Lenticular or Ciliary Ganglion (fig. 276) is a small, quadrangular, flattened ganglion, of a reddish-gray color, and about the size of a