OSTEOLOGY. 138 92.—Plan of tlie Development of the Ulna. By 3 Centres. Olecranon Appears at miy^f^^^-JoimSJin/t ac /O.'i' y-- outwards, is narrow, convex, and received into the sigmoid cavity of the radius. The styloid process projects from the inner and back part of the bone, and descends a little lower than the head, terminating in a rounded summit, which affords attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the wrist. The head is separated from the styloid process by a depression for the attachment of the triangular interarticular fibro-cartilage; and behind, by a shallow groove for the passage of the tendon of the Extensor carpi ulnaris. Structure. Similar to that of the other long bones. Development. By three centres: one for the shaft, one for the inferior extremity, and one for the olecranon (fig. 92). Ossification commences near the middle of the shaft about the fifth Aveek, and soon Fig. 92.—Plan of tlie Development of the Ulna, extends through the greater part of the bone. At birth, the ends are cartilaginous. About the fourth year, a separate osseous nucleus appears in the middle of the head, which soon extends into the styloid pro- cess. About the tenth year, ossific matter appears in the olecranon near its extremity, the chief part of this process being formed from an extension of the shaft of the bone into it. At about the sixteenth year, the upper epiphysis becomes joined, and at about the twentieth year the lower one. Articulations. With the humerus and radius. Attachment of Muscles. To the olecra- non: the Triceps, Anconeus, and one head of the Flexor carpi ulnaris. To the coro- noid process; the Brachialis anticus. Pro- nator radii teres. Flexor sublimis digito- rum, and Flexor profundus digitorum. To the shaft: the Flexor profundus digitorum. Pronator quadratus, Flexor carpi ulnaris. Extensor carpi ulnaris. Anconeus, Supi- At>p/aTtat^P>ys-{^^-JoLns 5]:r,j^ at 20^nator brcvis, Extcusor ossis metacarpi ,t1 ■ pollicis. Extensor secundi internodii polli- cis, and Extensor indicis. iSh, The Eadius. The Eadius, so called from its fancied resemblance to the spoke of a wheel, is situated on the outer side of the forearm, lying parallel with the ulna, which exceeds it in length and size. Its upper end is small, and forms only a small part of the elbow-joint; but its lower end is large, and forms the chief part of the wrist. It is one of the long bones, having a prismatic form, slightly curved longitudinally, and presenting for examination a shaft and two extremities. The Upper Extremity presents a head, neck, and tuberosity. The head is of a cylindrical form, depressed on its upper surface into a shallow cup, which articulates with the radial or lesser head of the humerus in flexion of the joint. Around the circumference of the head is a smooth articular surface, coated with cartilage in the recent state, broad internally where it rotates within the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, narrow in the rest of its circumference, to play in the orbicular ligament. The head is supported on a round, smooth, and constricted portion of bone, called the nech, which presents, behind, a slight ridge, for the attachment of part of the Supinator brevis. Beneath the neck, at the inner and front aspect of the bone, is a rough eminence, the tuherosity. Its surface is divided into two parts by a vertical line; a posterior rough portion, for the