SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE PERINEUM. 784 fascia, the external hemorrhoidal vessels and nerves, and the superficial and trans- verse perineal vessels; if the forefinger of the left hand is thrust upwards and forwards into the wound, pressing at the same time the rectum inwards and back- wards, the staff' may be felt in the membranous portion of the urethra. The finger is fixed upon the staffj and the structures covering it are divided with the point of the knife, which must be directed along the groove towards the bladder, the edge of the knife being carried outwards and backwards, dividing in its course the membranous portion of the urethra, and part of the left lobe of the prostate gland, to the extent of about an inch. The knife is then Avithdrawn, and the forefinger of the left hand passed along the staff into the bladder; the staff having been Avithdrawn, and the position of the stone determined upon, the forceps are intro- duced over the finger into the bladder. If the stone is very large, the opposite side of the prostate should be notched before the forceps is introduced; the finger is now withdrawn, the blades of the forceps opened, and made to grasp the stone, which must be extracted by slow and cautious undulating movements. Paris divided in the operation. The various structures divided in this operation are as follows; the integument, superficial fascia, external hemorrhoidal vessels and nerve, the posterior fibres of the Accelerator urince, the Transversus perinei muscle and artery (and, probably, the superficial perineal vessels and nerves), the deep perineal fascia, the anterior fibres of the Levator ani, part of the Compressor urethrte, the membranous and prostatic portions of the urethra, and part of the prostate gland. Fig. 394.—A Trausverse Section of the Pelvis ; showing the Pelvic Fascia. Pa,rts to he avoided in the operation. In making the necessary incisions in the perineum for the extraction of a calculus, the following rules should be observed: The primary incision should not be made too near the middle line, for fear of wounding the bulb of the corpus spongiosum or rectum; nor too far externally, otherwise the pudic artery may be implicated as it ascends along the inner border of the pubic arch. If the incisions are carried too far forward, the artery of the bulb may be divided; if carried too far backwards, the entire breadth of the