OSTEOLOGY. 82 surfaces, an external or facial, a posterior or zygomatic, a superior or orbital, and an internal. The external or facial surface (fig. 45) is directed forwards and outwards. In the median line of the bone, just above the incisor teeth, is a depression, the incisive or myrtiform fossa, which gives origin to the Depressor al^e nasi. Above and a little external to it, the Compressor naris arises. More external, is another depression, the"" canine fossa, larger and deeper than the incisive fossa, from which it is separated by a vertical ridge, the canine eminence, corresponding to the socket of the canine tooth. The canine fossa gives origin to the Levator anguli oris. Above the canine fossa is the infra-orbital foramen, the termination of the infra-orbital canal; it transmits the infra-orbital nerve and artery. Above the infra-orbital foramen is the margin of the orbit, which affords partial attachment to the Levator labii superioris proprius. The posterior or zygomatic surface is convex, directed backwards and outwards, and forms part of the zygomatic fossa. It presents about its centre several aper- tures leading to canals in the substance of the bone; they are termed the posterior dental canals, and transmit the posterior dental vessels and nerves. At the lower Fig. 45.—Left Superior Maxillary Bone, Outer Surface. Outer SuTface. part of this surface is a rounded eminence, the maxillary tuberosity, especially prominent after the growth of the wisdom-tooth, rough on its inner side for articulation with the tuberosity of the palate bone. Immediately above the rough surface is a groove, which, running obliquely down on the inner surface of the bone, is converted into a canal by articulation with the palate bone, forming the posterior palatine canal. The superior or orbital surface is thin, smooth, triangular, and forms part of the floor of the orbit. It is bounded internally by an irregular margin which articulates, in front, with the lachrymal; in the middle, with the os planum of the ethmoid; behind, with the orbital process of the palate bone; externally, by a smooth rounded edge which enters into the formation of the spheno-maxillary fissure, and which sometimes articulates at its anterior extremity with the orbital plate of the sphenoid; and in front, by part of the circumference of the orbit,