388 ARTEHIES. the lower border of tlie Superior oblique muscle, passes to the inner angle of the eye, where it divides into two terminal branches, the frontal and nasal. Branches. The branches of this vessel may be divided into an orbital group, which are distributed to the orbit and surrounding parts; and an ocular group, which supply the muscles and globe of the eye. The laclirymal is the first, and one of the largest branches, derived from the^ ophthalmic, arising close to the optic foramen, and not unfrequently from that vessel before entering the orbit. It accompanies the lachrymal nerve along the; upper border of the External rectus muscle, and is distributed to the lachrymal gland. Its terminal branches, escaping from the gland, are distributed to the tipper eyelid and conjunctiva, anastomosing with the palpebral arteries. The lachrymal artery gives off one or two malar branches, one of which passes through a foramen in the malar bone to reach the temporal fossa, and anastomoses with the deep temporal arteries; the other appears on the cheek, and anasto- moses with the transverse facial. A branch is also sent backwards, through the sphenoidal fissure, to the dura mater, which anastomoses with a branch of the middle meningeal artery. Pecvliarif/es. The lachrymal artery is sometimes derived from one of the anterior branches of the middle meningeal artery. The siqyra-orhital artery, the largest branch of the ophthalmic, arises from that vessel above the optic nerve. Ascending so as to rise above all the muscles of the orbit, it passes forwards, with the frontal nerve, between the periosteum and Levator palpebrae; and, passing through the supra-orbital foramen, divides into a superficial and deep branch, which supply the muscles and integaiment of the forehead and pericranium, anastomosing with the temporal, angular branch of the facial, and the artery of the opposite side. This artery in the orbit supplies the Superior rectus and the Levator palpebrse, sends a branch inwards, across the pulley of the Superior oblique muscle, to supply the parts at the inner canthus, and at the supra-orbital foramen frequently transmits a branch to the diploe. The ethmoidal tranches are two in number, posterior and anterior. The former, which is the smaller, passes through the posterior ethmoidal foramen, supplies the posterior ethmoidal cells, and, entering the cranium, gives off a meningeal branch, which supplies the adjacent dura mater, and nasal branches, which descend into the nose through apertures in the cribriform plate, anasto- mosing with branches of the spheno-palatine. The anterior ethmoidal artery accompanies the nasal nerve through the anterior ethmoidal foramen, supplies the anterior ethmoidal cells, and frontal sinuses, and, entering the cranium, divides into a meningeal branch, which supplies the adjacent dura mater, and a nasal branch which descends into the nose, through an aperture in the cribriform plate. The palpebral arteries, two in number, superior and inferior, arise from the ophthalmic, opposite the pulley of tl\e Superior oblique muscle ; they encircle the eyelids near their free margin, forming a superior and an inferior arch, which lie between the Orbicularis muscle and tarsal cartilages; the superior palpebral inosculating at the outer angle of the orbit with the orbital, branch of the temporal artery; the inferior palpebral anastomosing with the orbital branch of the infra-orbital artery, at the inner side of the lid. From this anastomosis, a branch Orbital Group. Lachrymal. Supra-orbital. Posterior ethmoidal. Anterior ethmoidah Palpebral. Frontal. Nasal. Muscular. Anterior ciliary. Short ciliary. Long ciliary. Arteria centralis retinse. Ocular Group.