528 NERYOUS SYSTEM. crura of the fornix, and part of the anterior commissure; behind, by the posterior commissure, and the iter e ieriio ad quartum ventriculum. The cavity of the third ventricle is crossed by three commissures, named, from their position, anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior commissure is a rounded cord of white fibres, placed in front of the anterior crura of tlie fornix. It perforates the corpus striatum on either side, and spreads out into the substance of the hemispheres, over the roof of the descending horn of each lateral ventricle. The middle or soft commissure consists almost entirely of gray matter. It connects together the thalami optici, and is continuous with the gray matter lining the anterior part of the third ventricle. The posterior commissure, smaller than the anterior, is a flattened white band of fibres, connecting together the two thalami optici posteriorly. It bounds the third ventricle posteriorly, and is placed in front of and beneath the pineal gland, above the opening leading to the fourth ventricle. The third ventricle has four openings connected with it. In front are two oval apertures, one on either side, the foramina of Monro, through which the third communicates with the lateral ventricles. Behind, is a third opening leading into the fourth ventricle by a canal, the aqueduct of Sylvius or iter e tertio ad quartum ventriculum. The fourth, situated in the anterior part of the floor of the ventricle, is a deep pit, which leads downwards to the funnel-shaped cavity of the infundi- bulum, the iter ad infundihulum. The lining membrane of the lateral ventricles is continued through the foramina of Monro into the third ventricle, and extends along the iter a tertio into the fourth ventricle; at the bottom of the iter ad infundihulum, it ends in a cul- de-sac. Gray matter of the third ventricle. A layer of gray matter covers the greater part of the surface of the third ventricle. In the floor of this cavity it exists in great abundance, and is prolonged upwards on the sides of the thalami, extending across the cavity as the soft commissure; below, it enters into the corpora albi- cantia, and surrounds in part the anterior pillars of the fornix. Behind the third ventricle, and in front of the cerebellum, are the corpora quadrigemina; and resting upon these, the pineal gland. The pineal gland, so named from its peculiar shape {pinus, the fruit of the fir), called also the conarium, is a small reddish-gray body, conical in form, placed immediately behind the posterior commissure, and between the nates, upon which it rests. It is retained in its position by a duplicature of pia mater, derived from the under surface of the velum interpositum, which almost completely invests it. The pineal gland is about four lines in length, and from two to three in width at its base, and is said to be larger in the child than in the adult, and in the female than in the male. Its base is connected with the cerebrum by some transverse commissural fibres, derived from the posterior commissure; and by four slender peduncles, formed of medullary fibres. Of these, the two superior pass forwards upon the upper and inner margin of the optic thalami to the anterior crura of the fornix, with which they become blended. The inferior peduncles pass vertically downwards from the base of the pineal gland, along the back part of the inner surface of the thalami, and are only seen on a vertical section through the gland. The pineal gland is very vascular, and consists chiefly of gray matter, with a few medullary fibres. In its base is a small cavity, said by some to communicate with that of the third ventricle. It contains a transparent viscid fluid, and occasionally a quantity of sabulous matter, named acervulus cerebri, comjoosed of phosphate and carbonate of lime, phosphate of magnesia and ammonia, with a little animal matter. These concretions are almost constant in their existence, and are found at all periods of life. When this body is solid, the sabulous matter is found upou its surface, and occasionally upon its peduncles. On the removal of the pineal gland and adjacent portion of pia mater, the corpora qnadii- (^omina are exposed.