AZYGOS—SPINAL. 471 tlie spine, as high as the sixth or seventh vertebra, passes across the column, behind the aorta and thoracic duct, to terminate in the right azygos vein. It receives the four or five lower intercostal veins of the left side, and some oesopha- geal and mediastinal veins. The left upper azygos vein varies according to the size of the left superior intercostal. It receives veins from the intercostal spaces between the left superior intercostal vein, and highest branch of the left lower azygos. They are usually two or three in number, and join to form a trunk which ends in the right azygos vein, or in the left lower azygos. When this vein is small, or altogether wanting, the left superior intercostal vein will extend as low as the fifth or sixth intercostal space. The bronchial veins return the blood from the substance of the lungs; that of the right side opens into the vena azygos major, near its termination; that of the left side, in the left superior intercostal vein. The Spinal Yeiks. The numerous venous plexuses placed upon and within the spine may be arranged into four sets:— 1. Those placed on the exterior of the spinal column {dorsi-spinal veins). 2. Those situated in the interior of the spinal canal, between the vertebrae and the theca vertebralis {meningo-rachidian veins). 3. The veins of the bodies of the vertebrae (vense basis vertebrarum). 4. The veins of the spinal cord [medulli-spinal veins). 1. The Dorsi-spinal Veins commence by small branches, which receive their blood from the integument of the back of the spine, and from the muscles in the vertebral grooves. They form a complicated network, which surrounds the spinous processes, laminae, and the transverse and articular processes of all the vertebrae. At the bases of the transverse processes, they communicate, by means of ascending and descending branches, with the veins surrounding the contiguous vertebrae, and they join with the veins in the spinal canal by branches which per- forate the ligamenta subflava; in the intervals between the arches of the vertebrae, they terminate in the vertebral veins in the neck, in the intercostal veins in the thorax, in the lumbar and sacral veins in the loins and pelvis. 2. The veins contained in the spinal canal are situated between the theca vertebralis and the vertebrae. They consist of two longitudinal plexuses, one of which runs along the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrae, throughout the entire length of the spinal canal (anterior longitudinal spinal veins), receiving the veins belonging to the bodies of the vertebrae (venae basis yerte brarum). The other plexus {posterior longitudinal spinal veins) is placed on the inner or anterior surface of the laminae of the vertebrae, and extends also along the entire length of the spinal canal. The Anterior Longitudinal Spinal Veins consist of two large, tortuous venous canals, which extend along the whole length of the vertebral column, from the foramen magnum to the base of the coccyx, being placed one on each side of the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrae, external to the posterior common ligament. These veins communicate together opposite each vertebra, by transverse trunks, which pass beneath the ligament, and receive the large venae basis verte- brarum, from the interior of the body of each vertebra. The anterior longitudinal spinal veins are least developed in the cervical and sacral regions. They are not of uniform size throughout, being alternately enlarged and constricted. At the intervertebral foramina, they communicate with the dorsi-spinal veins, and with the vertebral veins in the neck, with the intercostal veins in the dorsal region, and with the lumbar and sacral veins in the corresponding regions. The Posterior Longitudinal Spinal Veins, smaller than the anterior, are situated one on either side, between the inner surface of the laminae and the theca verte- bralis. They communicate, like the anterior, opposite each vertebra, by transverse