OSTEOLOGY. 94 a shallow groove, just wliere tlie body joins the ramus, over wLich. the facial artery turns. The Perpendicular Portions or Rami are of a quadrilateral form. Each presents for examination two surfaces, four borders, and two processes. The external surface is flat, marked with ridges, and gives attachment throughout nearly the whole of its extent to the Masseter muscle. The internal surface pre- sents about its centre the oblique aperture of the inferior dental canal, for the passage of the inferior dental vessels and nerve. The margin of this opening is irregular; it presents in front a prominent ridge, surmounted by a sharp spine, which gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw; and at its lower and back part a notch leading to a groove, the mylo-hyoidean, which runs obliquely downwards to the back part of the submaxillary fossa, and lodges the mylo-hyoid vessels and nerve; behind the groove is a rough surface, for the insertion of the Internal pterygoid muscle. The inferior dental canal descends obliquely downwards and forwards in the substance of the ramus, and then hori- zontally forwards in the body; it is here placed under the alveoli, with which it communicates by small openings. On arriving at the incisor teeth, it turns back to communicate with the mental foramen, giving off two small canals, which run Fig. 57.—Inferior Maxillary Bone. Inner Surface. Side View. Body forward, to be lost in the cancellous tissue of the bone beneath the incisor teeth. This canal, in the posterior two-thirds of the bone, runs nearest the internal sur- face of the jaw; and in the anterior third, nearer its external surface. Its walls are composed of compact tissue at either extremity, cancellous in the centre. It contains the inferior dental vessels and nerve, from which branches are distributed to the teeth through small apertures at the bases of the alveoli. The upper border of the ramus is thin, and presents two processes, separated by a deep concavity, the sigmoid notch. Of these processes, the anterior is the coronoid, the posterior the condyloid. The Coronoid Process is a thin, flattened, triangular eminence of bone, which varies in shape and size in different subjects, and serves essentially for the attach- ment of the Temporal muscle. Its external surface is smooth, and affords attachment to the Masseter and Temporal muscles. Its internal surface gives attachment to the Temporal muscle, and presents the commencement of a longi- tudinal ridge, which is continued to the posterior part of the alveolar process. On the outer side of this ridge is a deep groove, continued below on the outer side of