OCCIPITAL BONE. 61 thick, at tlie ridges, protuberances, condyles, and anterior part of the basilar process; whilst at the bottom of the fossas, especially the inferior, it is thin, semi- transparent, and destitute of diploe. Development (fig. 24). The occipital bone has foitr centres of development; one for the posterior or occi- pital part, which is formed in membrane; one for the basilar portion; and one for each condyloid portion, which are formed in cartilage. The centre for the occipi- tal portion appears about the tenth week of foetal life; and consists, according to Blandin and Cruveilhier, of a small oblong plate which appears in the situation of the occi- pital protuberance.' The condyloid portions then ossify, and lastly the basilar portion. At birth, the bone consists of four parts, separate from one another, the occipital portion being fissured in the direction above indicated. At about the fourth year, the occipital and the two condyloid pieces join; and about the sixth year the bone consists of a single piece. At a later period between the eighteenth and twenty-fifth years, the occipital and sphenoid become united, forming a single bone. Articulations. With six bones; two parietal, two temporal, sphenoid, and atlas. Attachment of Muscles. To the superior curved line are attached the Occipito- frontalis. Trapezius, and Sterno-cleido-mastoid. To the space between the curved lines, the Complexus, Splenius capitis, and Obliquus superior; to the inferior curved line, and the space between it and the foramen magnum, the Eectus posticus major and minor; to the transverse process, the Eectus lateralis; and to the basilar process, the Eecti antici majores and minores, and Superior Constrictor of the pharynx. Fig. 24.—Development of Occij)ital Bone. Jit/ ^ centres The Paeietal Boxes. • The Parietal Bones [paries, a wall) form by their union the sides and roof of the skull; each bone is of an irregular quadrilateral form, and presents for ex- amination two surfaces, four borders and four angles. Surfaces. The external surface (fig. 25) is convex, smooth, and marked about its centre by an eminence, called the parietal eminence, which indicates the point where ossification commenced. Crossing the centre of the bone in an arched direction is a curved ridge, the temporal ridge, for the attachment of the temporal fascia. Above this ridge, the surface of the bone is rough and porous, and covered by the aponeurosis of the Occipito-frontalis; below it the bone is smooth, forms part of the temporal fossa, and affords attachment to the Temporal muscle. At the back part of the superior border, close to the sagittal su.ture, is a small foramen, the parietal foramen, which transmits a vein to the superior longitudinal sinus. Its existence is not constant, and its size varies considerably. The internal surface (fig. 26), concave, presents eminences and depressions for lodging the convolutions of the cerebrum, and numerous furrows for the ramifica- tions of the meningeal arteries; the latter run upwards and backwards from the ' Bgclard considers this segment to have four centres of ossification, arranged in pairs, two above, and two below the curved lines, and Meckel describes eight, four of which correspond in situation with those above described: of the other four, two are placed in juxta-position, at the upper angle of the bone, and the remaining two, one at each side, in the lateral angles.