MEMBRANES OF THE CORD. 501 Fig. 253.—The Spinal Cord and its Membranes. mater being continued in tlie form of a tubular prolongation on tbem as tbey issue from these apertiires. These prolongations of the dura mater are short in the upper part of the spine, but become gradually longer below, forming a number of tubes of fibrous membrane, which inclose the sacral nerves, and are contained iu the spinal canal. The chief peculiarities of the dura mater of the cord, as compared with that investing the brain, are the following:— The dura mater of the cord is not adherent to the bones of the spinal canal, which have an independent periosteum. It does not send partitions into the fissures of the cord, as in the brain. Its fibrous laminae do not separate, to form venous sinuses, as in the brain. Str ucture. The dura mater consists of white fibrous tissue, arranged in bands which intersect one another. It is sparingly supplied with vessels; and no nerves have as yet been traced into it. The Arachmid is exposed by slitting up the dura mater, and reflecting this membrane on either side (fig. 253). It is a thin, delicate, serous membrane, which invests the outer surface of the cord, and is then reflected upon the inner surface of the dura mater, to which it is intimately adherent. That portion which surrounds the cord is called the vis- ceral layer of the arachnoid; and that which lines the inner surface of the dura mater, the parietal layer the interval between the two is called the cavity of the arachnoid. The visceral layer forms a loose sheath around the cord, so as to leave a con- siderable interval between the two which is called the suh-araclmoidean space. This space is largest at the lower part of the spinal canal, and incloses the mass of nerves which form the cauda equina. It contains an abundant serous secretion, the cerebro-spinal fluid, and usually com- municates with the general ventricular cavity of the brain, by means of an opening in the fibrous layer of the inferior boundary of the fourth ventricle. This secretion is sufficient in amount to ex- pand the arachnoid membrane, so as to completely fill up the whole of the space included in the dura mater. The sub- arachnoidean space is crossed, at the back part of the cord, by numerous fibrous bands, which stretch from the arachnoid to the pia mater, especially in the cervi- cal region, and is partially subdivided by a longitudinal membranous partition, which serves to connect the arachnoid with the pia mater, opposite the posterior median fissure. This partition is incom- plete, and cribriform in structure, consisting of bundles of white fibrous tissue, interlacing with each other. The visceral layer of the arachnoid surrounds the spinal nerves where they arise from the cord, and incloses them in a tubular Fig. 254. —Transverse Section of the Spinal Cord and its Membranes. Z ' Dt.itta,ttL-/m ' Kblliker denies that the inner surface of the dura mater is covered by an outer layer of the arachnoid, and states, that nothing is found here except an epithelial layer, no trace of a special membrane existing.