VEINS. 456 consisting of fibrous tissue, their inner of a serous membrane continuous witli the serous membrane of the veins. Veins have thinner walls than the arteries, which is due to the small amount of elastic and muscular tissues which they contain. The superficial veins usually have thicker coats than the deep veins, and the veins of the lower limbs are thicker than those of the upper. Veins are composed of three coats; internal, middle, and external. The internal coat is similar in structure to that of the arteries. In the smallest veins, it consists of epithelium and nucleated conijective tissue, arranged so as to form an outer and an inner layer; the latter, which is the thinnest, representing the middle coat. As these vessels approach the capillaries, the epithelium and outer layer of connective tissue become gradually lost. On the contrary, in those of rather larger size, there is superadded a layer of muscular fibre-cells, a circu- lar fibrous coat, with areolar elastic tissue beneath the epithelium, and in the ynuscular and external coats. In medium-sized veins, the internal coat consists of epithelium supported on one or more striped nucleated lamellag, external to which is a layer of elastic fibrous tissue. In the veins of the gravid uterus, and in the long saphenous and popliteal veins, muscular tissue is one of the component parts of the inner coat. In the largest veins, as the inferior vena cava, the trunks of the hepatic, and in the innominate veins, the internal coat has a structure similar to that already mentioned; but is somewhat thicker, owing to the increase in the number of the striped lamellte, and the greater thickness of the elastic fibrous coat. The middle coat is thin, and ditfers in structure from the middle coat of arteries in containing a smaller amount of elastic and muscular tissues, and more con- nective tissue. In the smallest veins, as already mentioned, it consists merely of a thin layer of nucleated connective tissue, the fibres of which run in a longitu- dinal direction; to which is added, in those of rather larger size, a \&jqt of mus- cular tissue, the cells of which are disposed transversely. In medium-sized veins, such as the cutaneous and deep veins of the limbs, as far as the brachial and pop- liteal, and the visceral veins, the middle coat is of a reddish-yellow color, remark- able for its great thickness, being more developed than the same coat in the large veins. It consists of a thick inner layer of connective tissue with elastic fibres, having intermixed in some veins a transverse layer of muscular fibres; and an outer layer consisting of longitudinal elastic lamellte, varying from five to ten in number, alternating with layers of transverse muscular fibres and connective tissue, which resembles somewhat in structure the middle coat of large arteries. In the large veins, as in the commencement of the vena portse, in the upper part of the abdominal portion of the inferior vena cava, and in the large hepatic trunks within the liver, the middle coat is thick, and its structure similar to that of the middle coat in medium-sized veins; but its muscular tissue is scanty, and the longitudinal elastic networks less distinctly lamellated. The muscular tissue of this coat is best marked in the splenic and portal veins, it is absent in certain );)arts of the vena cava below the liver, and wanting in the subclavian vein and terminal parts of the two cavoa. The external coat is usually the thickest, increasing in thickness with the size of the vessel; it is similar in structure to the external coat of arteries, but its chief peculiarity is that in some veins it contains a longitudinal network of mus- cular fibres. In the smallest veins, it consists of a thick layer of nucleated con- nective tissue. In medium-sized veins, it is much thicker than the middle coat, and consists of elastic and connective tissues, the fibres of which are longitudinally arranged. In the largest veins, this coat is from two to five times thicker than the middle coat, and contains a large number of longitudinal muscular fibres. This is most distinct in the hepatic part of the inferior vena cava, and at tne termination of this vein in the heart; in the trunks of the hepatic veins; in all the large trunks of the vena portse; in the splenic, superior mesenteric, external iliac, renal, and azygos veins. Where the middle coat is absent, this muscular layer extends as far as the inner coat. In the renal and portal veins, it extends