559 EIGHTH PAIR. The Superior laryngeal is tlie nerve of sensation to the larynx. It is larger than the preceding, and arises from the middle of the inferior ganglion of the pneumogastric. It descends, by the side of the pharynx, behind the internal carotid, where it divides into two branches, the external and internal laryngeal. The external laryngeal branch, the smaller, descends by the side of the larynx, beneath the Sterno-thyroid, to supply the Crico-thyroid muscle and the thyroid gland. It gives branches to the pharyngeal plexus, and the Inferior constrictor, and communicates with the superior cardiac nerve, behind the common carotid. The internal laryngeal branch descends to the opening in the thyro-hyoid membrane, through which it passes with the superior laryngeal artery, and is distributed to the mucous membrane of the larynx, and the Arytenoid muscle, anastomosing with the recurrent laryngeal. The branches to the mucous membrane are distributed, some in front, to the epiglottis, the base of the tongue, and epiglottidean gland; and others pass back- wards, in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold, to supply the mucous membrane sur- rounding the superior orifice of the larynx, as well as the membrane which lines the cavity of the larynx as low down as the vocal chord. The filament to the Arytenoid muscle is distributed partly to it, and partly to the mucous lining of the larynx. The filament which joins with the recurrent laryngeal descends beneath the mucous membrane on the posterior surface of the larynx, behind the lateral part of the thyroid cartilage, where the two nerves become united. The Inferior or recurrent laryngeal, so called from its reflected course, is the motor nerve of the larynx. It arises on the right side, in front of the subclavian artery; winds from before backwards round this vessel, and ascends obliquely to the side of the trachea, behind the common carotid and inferior thyroid arteries. On the left side, it arises in front of the arch of the aorta, and winds from before backwards round the vessel at the point where the obliterated remains of the ductus arteriosus are connected with it, and then ascends to the side of the trachea. The nerves on both sides ascend in the groove between the trachea and oesophagus, and, piercing the lower fibres of the Inferior constrictor muscle, enter the larynx behind the articulation of the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage with the cricoid, being distributed to all the muscles of the larynx, excepting the Crico- thyroid, and joining with the superior laryngeal. The recurrent laryngeal, as it winds round the subclavian artery and aorta, gives off several cardiac filaments, which unite with cardiac branches from the pneumogastric and sympathetic. As it ascends the neck, it gives off oesophageal branches, more numerous on the left than on the right side, which supply the mucous membrane and muscular coat of the oesophagus; tracheal branches to the mucous membrane and muscular fibres of the trachea; and some pharyngeal filaments to the Inferior constrictor of the pharynx. The Cervical cardiac hi-anches, two or three in number, arise from the pneumo- gastric, at the upper and lower part of the neck. The superior branches are small, and communicate with the cardiac branches of the sympathetic, and with the great cardiac plexus. The inferior cardiac branches, one on each side, arise at the lower part of the neck, just above the first rib. On the right side, this branch passes in front of the arteria innominata, and anastomoses with the superior cardiac nerve. On the left side, it passes in front of the arch of the aorta, and anastomoses either with the superior cardiac nerve or with the cardiac plexus. The Thoracic cardiac branches, on the right side, arise from the trunk of the pneumogastric, as it lies by the side of the trachea: passing inwards, they terminate in the deep cardiac plexus. On the left side, they arise from the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. The Anterior pulmonary branches, two or three in number, and of small size, are distributed on the anterior aspect of the root of the lungs. They join with filaments from the sympathetic, and form tho anterior pulmonary plexus.