131 HUMERUS. The internal border extends from tlie lesser tuberosity to the internal condyle. Its upper third is marked by a prominent ridge, forming the inner lip of the bicipital groove, and gives attachment from above downwards to the tendons of the Latissimus dorsi, Teres major, and part of the origin of the inner head of the Triceps. About its centre is a rough ridge for the attachment of the Coraco- brachialis, and just below this is seen the entrance of the nutritious canal directed downwards. Sometimes there is a second canal higher up, which takes a similar direction. Its inferior third is raised into a slight ridge, which becomes very prominent below; it presents an anterior lip for the attachment of the Brachialis anticus, a posterior lip for the internal head of the Triceps, and an intermediate space for the internal intermuscular aponeurosis. The external surface is directed outwards above, where it is smooth, rounded, and covered by the Deltoid muscle; forwards below, where it is slightly concave from above downwards, and gives origin to part of the Brachialis anticus muscle. About the middle of this surface, is seen a rough triangular impression for the insertion of the Deltoid muscle, and below it the musculo-spiral groove, directed obliquely from behind, forwards and downwards; it transmits the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda artery. The internal surface, less extensive than the external, is directed forwards above, forwards and inwards below; at its upper part it is narrow, and forms the bicipital groove. The middle part of this surface is slightly rough for the attachment of the Coraco-brachialis; its lower part is smooth, concave, and gives attachment to the Brachialis anticus muscle.^ The posterior surface (fig. 88) appears somewhat twisted, so that its upper part is directed a little inwards, its lower part backwards, and a little outwards. JSTearly the whole of this surface is covered by the external and internal heads of the Triceps, the former being attached to its upper and outer part, the latter to its inner and back part, their origin being separated by the musculo-spiral groove. The Lower Extremity is flattened from before backwards, and curved slightly forwards: it terminates below in a broad articular surface, which is divided into two parts by a slight ridge. On either side of the articular surface are the ex- ternal and internal condyles. The articular surface extends a little lower than the condyles, and is curved slightly forwards, so as to occupy the more anterior part of the bone; its greatest breadth is in the transverse diameter, and it is obliquely directed, so that its inner extremity occupies a lower level than the outer. The outer portion of the articular surface presents a smooth rounded eminence, which has received the name of the lesser or radial head of the humerus; it articulates with the cup-shaped depression on the head of the radius, is limited to the front and lower part of the bone, not extending as far back as the other portion of the articular surface. On the inner side of this eminence is a shallow groove, in which is received the inner margin of the head of the radius. The inner or trochlear portion of the articular surface presents a deep depression between two well-marked borders. This surface is convex from before back- wards, concave from side to side, and occupies the anterior lower and posterior parts of the bone. The external border, less prominent than the internal, corresponds • A small hook-shaped process of bone, varying from -y'^ to | of an inch in length, is not unfrequently found projecting from the inner surface of the shaft of the humerus two inches above the internal condyle. It is curved downwards, forwards, and inwards, and its pointed extremity is connected to the internal border just above the inner condyle, by a ligament or fib rous band; completing an arch, through which the median nerve and brachial artery pass, \Yhen these structures deviate from their usual course. Sometimes the nerve alone is transmitted through it, or the nerve may be accompanied by the ulnar interosseous artery, in cases of high division of the brachial. A well-marked groove is usually found behind the process, in which the nerve and artery are lodged. This space is analogous to the supra-condyloid foramen iu many animals, and probably serves in them to protect the nerve and artery from compression during the contraction of the muscles in this region. A detailed account of this process is given by Dr. Struthers, in his "Anatomical and Physiological Observations," p. 202.