THE THORAX. 698 margin presents three deep semicircular notches, within which the middle coat of the artery (which presents three convex semicircular segments) is firmly fixed; the attachment of the artery to its fibrous ring being strengthened by the thin cellular coat and serous membrane externally, and by the endocardium within. It is opposite the margins of these semicircular notches, in the arterial rings, that the endocardium, by its reduplication, forms the semilunar valves, the fibrous structure of the ring being continued into each of the segments of the valve at this part. The middle coat of the artery in this situation is thin, and the sides of the vessel dilated to form the sinuses of Valsalva. The muscular structure of the heart consists of bands of fibres, which present an exceedingly intricate interlacement. They are of a deep red color, and marked with transvei'se strife. The muscular fibres of the heart admit of a subdivision into two kinds, those of the auricles, and those of the ventricles, which are quite independent of one another. Fibres of the auricles. These are disposed in two layers, a superficial layer common to both cavities, and a deep layer proper to each. The superficial fibres are most distinct on the anterior surface of the auricles, across the bases of which they run in a transverse direction, forming a thin but incomplete layer. Some of these fibres pass into the septum auricularum. The internal or deep fibres proper to each auricle consist of two sets, looped, and annular fibres. The looped fibres pass upwards over each auricle, being attached by both extremities to the corre- sj^onding auriculo-ventricular rings, in front and behind. The annular fibres sur- round the whole extent of the appendices auriculas, and are continued upon the walls of the vense cavse and coronary sinus on the right side, and upon the pul- monary veins on the left side, at their connection with the heart. In the appendices, they inteidace with the longitudinal fibres. Fibres of the ventricles. These, as in the auricles, are disposed in layers, some of which are common to both ventricular cavities, whilst others belong exclusively to one ventricle, the latter being chiefly found towards the base of the heart. The greater majority cf these fibres are connected by both ends with the auriculo- ventricular fibrous rings, either directly or indirectly through the chordas ten- dineffi; some, however, are attached to the fibrous rings surrounding the arterial orifices. The superficial fibres are either longitudinal, or, more commonly, oblique or spiral in their direction, and towards the apex are arranged in the form of twisted loops; the deeper fibres are circular. The spiral fibres are disposed in layers of various degrees of thickness; the most superficial, on the front of the ventricles, run obliqliely from right to left, and from above downwards. On the back of the ventricles they are directed more vertically, and pass from left to right. The superficial fibres coil inwards at the apex of the heart, round which they are arranged in a whorl-like form, called the vortex, dipping beneath the edge of the deeper and shorter layers. If these fibres are carefully imcoiled, in a heart previously boiled, the cavity < i the left, and then that of the right ventricle, will be exposed at this point. The layers of fibres successively met with have a simi- lar arrangement; tlae more superficial and longer turning inwards, and including the deeper and shorter bands. All these fibres ascend and spread out upon the inner surface of the ventricles, forming the walls, the septum, and the musculi papillares, which project from these cavities; and they are finally inserted into the auriculo-ventricular fibrous rings, or, indirectly, through the chordae tendineffi. Of these spiral fibres, some enter at the interventricular furrows, and surround either ventricle singly; others pass across the furrows, and embrace both cavities. On tracing those which form the vortex, back into the interventricular septum, they become interlaced with similar fibres-from the right ventricle, and ascend vertically upon the right side of the septum, as far as its base, in the form of a \ong and broad band. Circular fibres. The circular fibres are situated deeply in the su.bstance of