242 MUSCLES AND FASCIA. Relations. Externally, with the integument; internally, with the Temporal aponeurosis. The Attrahens Aurem, the smallest of the three, is thin, fan-shaped, and its fibres pale and indistinct. It arises from the lateral edge of the aponeurosis of the Occipito-frontalis; its fibres converge to be inserted into a projection on the front of the helix. Relations. Externally, with the skin; internally, with the temporal fascia, which separates it from the temporal artery and vein. The Retrahens Aurem consists of two or three fleshy fasciculi, which arise from the mastoid portion of the temporal bone by short aponeurotic fibres. They are inserted into the lower part of the cranial surface of the concha. Relations. Externally, with the integument; internally, with the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. Nerves. The AttoUens aurem is supplied by the small occipital; the Attrahens aurem, by the facial and auriculo-temporal branch of the inferior maxillary; and the Eetrahens aurem, by the posterior auricular branch of the facial. Actions. In man, these muscles possess very little action; the Attollens aurem slightly raises the ear, the Attrahens aurem draws it forwards and upwards^ and the Eetrahens aurem draws it backwards. 8. Palpebral Eegion (fig. 148). Orbicularis Palpebrarum. Levator Palpebrae. Corrugator Supercilii. Tensor Tarsi. Dissection (fig. 147). In order to expose the muscles of the face, continue the longitudinal incision made in the dissection of the Occipito-frontalis, down the median line of the face to the tip of the nose, and from this point onwards to the upper lip ; another incision should be carried along the margin of the lip to the angle of the mouth, and transversely across the face to the angle of the jaw. The integument should also be divided by an incision made in front of the external ear, from the angle of the jaw, upwards, to the transverse incision made in exposing the Occipito-frontalis. These incisions include a square-shaped flap which should be carefully removed in the direction marked in the figure, as the muscles at some points are intimately adhe- rent to the integument. The Orlicidaris Palpebrarum is a sphincter muscle which surrounds the cir- cumference of the orbit and eyelids. It arises from the internal angular process of the frontal bone, from the nasal process of the superior maxillary in front of the lachrymal groove, and from the anterior surface and borders of a short tendon, the tendo palpebrarum, placed at the inner angle of the orbit. From this origin, the fibres are directed outwards, forming a broad, thin, and flat layer, which covers the eyelids, surrounds the circumference of the orbit, and spreads out over the temple, and downwards on the cheek, becoming blended with the Occipito-fronta- lis and Corrugator supercilii. The palpebral portion (ciliaris) of the Orbicularis is thin and pale; it arises from the bifurcation of the tendo palpebrarum, and forms a series of concentric curves, which are united on the outer side of the eyelids at an acute angle by a cellular raphe, some being inserted into the external tarsal ligament and malar bone. The orbicular portion (orbicularis latus) is thicker, and of a reddish color, its fibres, -well developed, forming a complete ellipse. The tendo palpebrarum (tendo oculi) is a short tendon, about two lines in length and one in breadth, attached 1;£> the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone in front of the lachrymal groove. Crossing the lachrymal sac, it divides into two parts, each division being attached to the inner extremity of the corresponding tarsal cartilage. As the tendon crosses the lachrymal sac, a strong aponeurotic lamina is given off from its posterior surface, which expands over the sac, and is attaclied to the ridge on the lachrymal bone. This is the reflected aponeurosis of the tendo palpebrarum. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the integument. By its deep surface, above, with the Occipito-frontalis and Corrugator supercilii, with which it is intimately blended, and with the supra-orbital vessels and nerve; below, it covers