ORGANS or DIGESTION. 656 The Pharynx. The Pharynx is that part of the alimentary canal which is placed behind the nose, month, and larynx. It is a mnsculo-membranous sac, somewhat conical in form, with the base upwards, and the apex downwards, extending from the nnder surface of the skull to the cricoid cartilage in front, and the fifth cervical vertebra behind. The pharynx is about four inches and a half in length, and broader in the transverse than in the antero-posterior diameter. Its greatest breadth is opposite the cornua of the hyoid bone; its narrowest point at its termination in the oesophagus. It is limited, above, by the basilar process of the occipital bone; below, it is continuous with the oesophagus; posteriorly, it is connected by loose areolar tissue with the cervical portion of the vertebral column, and the Longi colli and Recti capitis antici muscles; anteriorly, it is incomplete, and is attached in succession to the internal pterygoid plate, the pterygo-maxillary ligament, the lower jaw, the tongue, hyoid bone, and larynx; laterally, it is connected to the styloid processes and their muscles, and is in contact with the common and internal carotid arteries, the internal jugular veins, and the eighth, ninth, and sympathetic nerves, and, above, with a small part of the Internal pterygoid muscles. It has seven openings communicating with it; the two posterior nares, the two Eustachian tubes, the mouth, larynx, and oesophagus. The 2^osterior nares are the two large apertures situated at the upper part of the anterior wall of the pharynx. The tivo Eustachian tubes open one at each side of the upper part of the pharynx, at the back part of the inferior meatus. Below the nasal fossas are the posterior surface of the soft palate and uvula, the large aperture of the mouth, the base of the tongue, the epiglottis, and the cordiform opening of the larynx. The oesophageal opening is the lower contracted portion of the pharynx. Structure. The pharynx is composed of three coats; a mucous coat, a muscular layer, and a fibrous coat. The fibrous coat is situated between the mucous and muscular layers, and is called the pharyngeal aponeurosis. It is thick above, where the muscular fibres are wanting, and firmly connected to the basilar process of the occipital and petrous portion of the temporal bones. As it descends, it diminishes in thickness, and is gradually lost. The mucous coat is continuous with that lining the Eustachian tubes, the nares, the mouth, and the larynx. It is covered by columnar ciliated epithelium, as low down as a level with the floor of the nares; below that point, it is of the squamous variety. The muscular coat has been already described (p. 262). The pharyngeal glands are of two kinds, the simple or compound follicular, which are found in considerable numbers beneath the mucous membrane, through- out the entire pharynx; and the racemose, which are especially numerous at the upper part of the pharynx, and form a thick layer, across the b%ck of the fauces, between the two Eustachian tubes. The (Esophagus. The (Esophagus is a membranous canal, about nine inches in length, extending from the pharynx to the stomach. It commences at the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, opposite the fifth cervical vertebra, descends along the front of the spine, through the posterior mediastinum, passes through the Diaphragm, and, entering the abdomen, terminates at the cardiac orifice of the stomach, opposite the ninth dorsal vertebra. The general direction of the oesophagus is vertical; but it Vresents two or three slight curvatures in its course. At its commencement, it is