OPTIC—AUDITORY—MOTOR OCULI. 53t Tlie commissure, somewhat quadrilateral in form, rests upon tlie olivary process of the sphenoid bone, being bounded, in front, by the lamina cinerea; behind, by the tuber cinereum; on either side, by the anterior perforated space. \¥ithin the commissure, the optic nerves of the two sides undergo a partial decussation. The fibres which form the inner margin of each tract, are continued across from one to the other side of the ^'°"in'Iit~OprCom Ji'LS'"' brain, and have no connection with the optic nerves. These may be regarded as commissural fibres (inter- cerebral) between the thalami of opposite sides. Some fibres are continued across tlie anterior border of the chiasma, and coftnect the optic nerves of the two sides, having no relation witli the optic tracts. 'Jw""^it. They may be regarded as commissiiral fibres between the two retinae (inter-retinal fibres). The outer fibres of each tract are continued into the optic nerve of the same side. The central fibres of each tract are continued into the optic nerve of the opposite side, decussating in the commissure with similar fibres of the opposite tract.' The optic nerves arise from the fore part of the commissure, and, diverging from one another, become rounded in form, firm in texture, and are inclosed in a sheath derived from the arachnoid. As each nerve passes through the corresponding optic foramen, it receives a sheath from the dura mater; and as it enters the orbit, this sheath subdivides into two layers, one of which becomes continuous with the periosteum of the orbit; the other forms a sheath for the nerve, and surrounds it as far as the sclerotic. The nerve passes through the cavity of the orbit, pierces the sclerotic and choroid coats at the back part of the eyeball, a little to the nasal side of its centre, and expands into the retina. A small artery,'the arteria cen- tralis retinas, perforates the optic nerve a little behind the globe, and runs along its interior in a tubular canal of fibrous tissue. It supplies the inner surface of the retina, and is accompanied by corresponding veins. AuDiTOEY Nerve. The Auditory Nerve, the portio mollis of the seventh pair, is the special nerve of the sense of hearing, being distributed exclusively to the internal ear. The portio dura of the seventh pair, the facial nerve, is the motor nerve of the muscles of the face. It will be described with the motor cranial nerves. The auditory nerve arises from numerous white strigs, the linete transversse, which emerge from the posterior median fissure in the anterior wall, or floor, of the fourth ventricle. It is also connected with the gray matter of the medu.lla, which corresponds to the locus c£eruleus. According to Foville, the roots of this nerve are connected, on the under surface of the middle peduncle, with the gray substance of the cerebellum, with the flocculus, and with the gray matter at the borders of the calamus scriptorius. The nerve winds round the restiform body, from which it receives fibres, and passes forwards across the posterior border of the crus cerebelli, in company with the facial nerve, from which it is partially separated by a small artery. It then enters the meatus auditorius, in company with the facial nerve, and, at the bottom of the meatus, divides into two branches, cochlear and vestibular, which are distributed, the former to the cochlea, the latter to the vestibule and semicircular canals. The auditory nerve is very soft in texture (hence the vmraQ portio mollis), destitute of neurilemma, and, within the meatus, receives one or two filaments from the facial. 2. The Motor Cranial Nerves. Third or Motor Oculi Nerve. The Third or Motor Oculi Nerve supplies all the muscles of the eyeball, except the Superior oblique and External rectus; it also sends motor filaments to the iris. ' A specimen of congenital absence of tlie optic commissure is to be found in the Museum of tlie Westminster Hospital.