MUSCLES AND FASCIA. 252 its fibres pass downwards, outwards, and backwards, to be inserted, by strong tendinous laminte, into the lower and back part of the inner side of the ramus and angle of the lower jaw, as high as the dental foramen. Relations. By its external surface, with the ramus of the lower jaw, from Avhich it is separated, at its upper part, by the External Pterygoid, the internal lateral ligament, the internal maxillary artery, and the dental vessels and nerves. By its internal surface, with the Tensor palati, being separated from the Superior con- strictor of the pharynx by a cellular interval. The External Pterygoid is a short thick muscle, somewhat conical in form, and extends almost horizontally between the zygomatic fossa and the condyle of the jaw. It arises from the pterygoid ridge on the great wing of the sphenoid, and the portion of bone included between it and the base of the pterygoid process; from the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate; and from the tuberosity of the palate and superior maxillary bones. Its fibres pass horizontally backwards and outwards, to be inserted into a depression in front of the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, and into the corresponding part of the interarticular fibro- cartilage. This muscle, at its origin, appears to consist of two portions separated by a slight interval; hence the terms upper and lower head sometimes used in the description of the muscle. Relations. By its external surf ace, Avith the ramus of the lower jaw, the internal maxillary artery which crosses it, the tendon of the Temporal muscle, and the Masseter. By its internal surface, it rests against the upper part of the Internal pterj^goid, the internal lateral ligament, the middle meningeal artery, and inferior maxillary nerve; by its ih-p-per border it is in relation with the temporal and masseteric branches of the inferior maxillary nerve. Nerves. These muscles are supplied by the inferior maxillary nerve. Actions. The Temporal, Masseter, and Internal pterygoid raise the lower jaw against the upper with great force. The two latter muscles, from the obliquity in the direction of their fibres, assist the External pterygoid in drawing the lower jaw forwards upon the upper, the jaw being draAvn back again by the deep fibres of the Masseter, and posterior fibres of the Temporal. The External pterygoid muscles are the direct agents in the trituration of the food, draAving the lower jaw directly forwards,- so as to make the lower teeth project beyond the upper. If the muscle of one side acts, the corresponding side of the jaw is draAvn forwards, and the other condyle remaining fixed, the symphysis deA'iates to the opposite side. The alternation of these movements on the two sides produces trituration. MUSCLES AND FASCIJE OF THE NECK. The Muscles of the Neck may be arranged into groups, corresponding Avith the region in Avhich they are situated. These groups are nine in number:— 1. Superficial Eegion. 5. Muscles of the Pharynx. 2. Infra-hyoid Eegion. 6. Muscles of the Soft Palate. Depressors of the Os Ilyoides and Larvnx. 7- Muscles of the Anterior Verte- bral Eegion. 3. Supra-hyoid Eegion. Elevators of the Os Ilyoides 8. Muscles of the Lateral "Vertebral and Larynx. Eegion. 4. Lingual Eegion. 9_ Muscles of the Larynx. Muscles of the Tongue.