OF THE MUSCLES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. CEMCTLLUS SUPKM Fracture of the neck of Fig- 199- the femur within the cap- sular ligam.ent (fig. 199) is a very common accident, and is most frequently- caused by indirect vio- lence, such as slipping off the edge of the curbstone, the impetus and weight of the body falling upon the neck of the bone. It usually occurs in females, and seldom under fifty years of age. A.t this period of life, the cancel- lous tissue of the neck of the bone not unfrequently is atrophied, becoming soft and infiltrated with fatty matter, and the compact tis- sue is partially absorbed; hence the bone is more brittle, and more liable to fracture. -The characteris- tic marks of this accident are slight shortening of the limb, and eversion of the foot, neither of which symptoms occur, however, in some cases until some time after the injury. The eversion is caused by the combined action of the external rotator muscles, as well as by the Psoas and Iliacus, Pec- tineus, Adductors, and Glutei muscles. The shortening and retraction is produced by the action of the Glutei, and by the Eectus femoris in front, and the Biceps, Semi-tendi- nosus, and Semi-membranosus behind. Fracture of the femur just below the trochanters (fig. 200) is an accident of not unfrequent occurrence, and is at- tended with great displacement producing considerable deformity. The upper fragment, the portion chiefly dis- placed, is tilted forwards almost at right angles with the pelvis, by the combined action of the Psoas and Iliacus; and, at the same time, everted and drawn outwards by the external rotator and Glutei muscles, causing a marked prominence at the upper and outer side of the thigh, and much pain from the bruising and laceration of the muscles. The limb is shortened, from the lower fragment being drawn upwards by the Rectus in front, and the Biceps, Semi-membranosus, and Semi-tendinosus behind; and, at the same time, everted, and the upper end thrown out- wards, the lower inwards, by the Pectineus and Adductor muscles. This fracture may be reduced in two different methods; either by direct relaxation of all the opposing muscles, to effect which, the limb should be placed on a double inclined plane; or, by overcoming the contraction of the muscle by continued extension, which may be effected by means of the long splint. Oblique fracture of the femur immediately above the con- dyles (fig. 201) is a formidable injury, and attended with considerable displacement. On examination of the limb, the lower fragment may be felt deep in the popliteal space, being drawn backwards by the Gastrocnemius, Soleus, and Plantaris muscles ; and upwards by the poste- rior femoral, and Rectus muscles. The pointed end of the upper fragment is di-awn inwards by the Pectineus and Adductor muscles, and tilted forwards by the Psoas and Iliacus, piercing the Rectus muscle, and, occasionally, the integument. Relaxation of these muscles and direct approximation of the broken fragments are effected by placing the limb on a double inclined plane. The greatest Fracture of tlie Neck of the Femur within the Capsular Ligament. OBTURATOR INTERN 5 INFERIOR QUAORATUS fSKORIS Fig. 200.—Fracture of the Femur below the Trochanters.