64 OSTEOLOGY. cases of well-marked cerebral development. The whole surface of the bone above this part is smooth, and covered by the aponeurosis of the Occipito-frontalis muscle. Below the frontal eminence, and separated from it by a slight groove, is the_ superciliary ridge, broad internally where it is continuous with the nasal eminence, but less distinct as it arches outwards. These ridges are caused by the projection outwards of the frontal sinuses. Beneath the superciliary ridge is the supra-orbital arch, a curved and prominent margin, which forms the upper boundary of the orbit, and separates the vertical from the horizontal portion of the bone. The outer part of the arch is sharp and prominent, affording to the eye, in that situation, considerable protection from injury; the inner part is less prominent. At the inner third of this arch is a notch, sometimes converted into Fig. 27.—Frontal Bone : Outer Surface. a foramen by a bony process or ligament, and called the supra-orhiial notch or foramen. It transmits the supra-orbital artery, veins, and nerve. A small aperture is seen in the upper part of the notch, which transmits a vein from the diploe to join the ophthalmic vein. The supra-orbital arch terminates externally in the external angular process, and internally in the interal angular process. The external angular process is strong, prominent, and articulates with the malar bone: running upwards and backwards from it is a sharp curved crest, the tem- poral ridge, for the attachment of the temporal fascia; and beneath it a slight concavity, that forms the anterior part of the temporal fossa, and gives origin to the Temporal muscle. The internal angular processes are less marked than the external, and articulate with the lachrymal bones. Between the two is a rough, uneven interval, the nasal notch, wliich articulates in the middle line with the nasal, and on either side with the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone. The notch is continuous below, with a long pointed process, the nasal spine.