OF THE TRIANGLES OF THE NECK. 383 extending from the angle of the jaw to the mastoid process; its apex is formed below by the sternum. This space is covered by the integument, superficial fascia, Platysma, deep fascia, crossed by branches of the facial and superficial cer- vical nerves, and subdivided into three smaller triangles by the Digastric muscle, above, and the anterior belly of the Omo-hyoid, below. These are named, from below upwards, the inferior carotid triangle, the superior carotid triangle, and the submaxillary triangle. The Inferior Carotid Triangle is limited, in front, by the median line of the neck; behind, by the anterior margin of the Sterno-mastoid ; above, by the anterior belly of the Omo-hyoid and it is covered by the integument, superficial fascia, Platysma, and deep fascia; ramifying between which is seen the descending branch of the superficial cervical nerve. Beneath these superficial structures are the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, which, together with the anterior margin of the Sterno-mastoid, conceal the lower part of the common carotid artery. This vessel is inclosed within its sheath, together with the internal jugular vein, and pneumogastric nerve; the vein lying on the outer side of the artery on the right side of the neck, but overlapping it, or passing directly across it on the left side; the nerve lying between the artery and vein, on a plane posterior to both. In front of the sheath are a few filaments descending from the loop of communi- cation between the descendens and communicans noni; behind the sheath are seen the inferior thyroid artery, the recurrent laryngeal and sympathetic nerves; and on its inner side, the trachea, the thyroid gland, much more prominent in the 1 female than in the male, and the lower part of the larynx. In the upper part of this space, the common carotid artery may be tied below the Omo-hyoid muscle. The Superior Carotid Triangle is bounded, behind, by the Sterno-mastoid; below, by the anterior belly of the Omo-hyoid; and above, by the posterior belly of the Digastric muscle. Its floor is formed by parts of the Thyro-hyoid, Hyo- glossus, and the inferior and middle Constrictor muscles of the pharynx; and it is covered by the integument, superficial fascia, Platysma, and deep fascia; rami- fying between which are branches of the facial and superficial cervical nerves. This space contains the upper part of the common carotid artery, which bifurcates opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage into the external and internal carotid. These vessels are concealed from view by the anterior margin of the Sterno-mastoid muscle, which overlaps them. The external and internal carotids lie side by side, the external being the most anterior of the two. The following branches of the external carotid are also met with in this space: the superior thyroid, which runs forwards and downwards; the lingual, which passes directly forwards; the facial, forwards and upwards; the occipital is directed backwards; and the ascending pharyngeal runs directly upwards on the inner side of the in- ternal carotid. The veins met with are:—the internal jugular, which lies on the outer side of the common and internal carotid vessels; and veins corresponding to the above-mentioned branches of the external carotid, viz., the superior thyroid, the lingual, facial, ascending pharyngeal, and sometimes the occipital; all of which accompany their corresponding arteries, and terminate in the internal jugular. In front of the sheath of the common carotid is the descendens noni, the hypo- glossal, from which it is derived, crossing both carotids above, curving round the occipital artery at its origin. Within the sheath, between the artery and vein, and behind both, is the pneumogastric nerve ; behind the sheath, the sympathetic. On the outer side of the vessels, the spinal accessory nerve runs for a short distance before it pierces the Sterno-mastoid muscle; and on the inner side of the internal carotid, just below the hyoid bone, may be seen the superio.r laryngeal nerve ; and still more inferiorly, the external laryngeal nerve. The upper part of the larynx and the pharynx are also found in the front part of this space. The Submaxillary Triangle corresponds to that part of the neck immediately beneath the body of the jaw. It is bounded, above, by the lower border of the body of the jaw, the parotid gland, and mastoid process; behind by the posterior belly of the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles: in front, by the middle line of