ARTICULATIONS. 228 Actions. Tlie movement permitted in these articulations is limited to a very slight gliding of the articular surfaces one upon another. 4. Ankle-joint. The AnJth is a ginglymoid or hinge-joint. The bones entering into its forma- tion are the lower extremity of the tibia and its malleolus, and the malleolus of the fibula, above, which, united, form an arch, in which is received the upper convex surface of the astragalus and its two lateral facets. These surfaces are covered with cartilage, and connected together by the following ligaments:— Anterior. Internal Lateral. External Lateral. The Anterior Ligament (fig. 143) is a broad, thin, membranous layer, attached above, to the margin of the articular surface of the tibia; below, to the margin of Fig. 143.—Ankle-joint: Tarsal and Tarso-metatarsal Articulations. Internal View. Right Side. the astragalus, in front of its articular surface. It is in relation, in front, with the Extensor tendons of the toes, the tendons of the Tibialis anticus and Peroneus tertius, and the anterior tibial vessels and nerve; behind, it lies in contact with the synovial membrane. The Internal Lateral or Deltoid Ligament consists of two layers, superficial and deep. The superficial layer is a strong, flat, triangular band, attached, above, to the apex and anterior and posterior borders of the inner malleolus. The most anterior fibres pass forwards to be inserted into the scaphoid; the middle descend almost perpendicularly to be inserted into the os calcis; and the posterior fibres pass backwards and outwards to be attached to the inner side of the astragalus. The deep layer consists of a short, thick, and strong fasciculus which passes from the apex of the malleolus to the inner surface of the astragalus, below the articular surface. This ligament is covered in by the tendons of the Tibialis posticus and Flexor longus digitorum muscles. The External Lateral Ligament (fig. 144) consists of three fasciculi, taking different directions, and separated by distinct intervals.