52 OSTEOLOGY. j)osterior sacral foramina; tliey are smaller in size, and less regular in form than the anterior, and transmit the posterior branches of the sacral nerves. On the outer side of the posterior sacral foramina is a series of tubercles, the rudimentary Fig. 16.—Sacram: Posterior Surface. posterior transverse j^rocesses of the sacral vertebriE. The first pair of transverse tubercles are of large size, very distinct, and correspond "with each superior angle" of the bone; the second, small in size, enter into the formation of the sacro-iliac articulation; the third give attachment to the oblique sacro-iliac ligaments; and the fourth and fifth to the great sacro-ischiatic ligaments. The interspace between the spinous and transverse processes on the back of the sacrum, presents a wide shallow concavity, called the sacral groove; it is continuous above with the vertebral groove, and lodges the origin of the Erector spinas. The Lateral surface, broad above, becomes narrowed into a thin edge below. Its upper half presents in front a broad ear-shaped siirface for articulation with the ilium. This is called the auricular or ear-shaped surface, and in the fresh state is coated with cartilage. It is bounded posteriorly by deep and uneven impressions, for the attachment of the posterior sacro-iliac ligaments. The lower half is thin and sharp, and gives attachment to the greater and lesser sacro-ischiatic ligaments, and to some fibres of the Gluteus maximus; below, it presents a deep notch, which is converted into a foramen by articulation with the transverse process of the upper piece of the coccyx, and transmits the anterior branch of the fifth sacral nerve. The Base of the sacrum, which is broad and expanded, is directed upwards and forwards. In the middle is seen an oval articular surface, Avhich corresponds with the under surface of the body of the last lumbar vertebra, bounded behind by the large triangular orifice of the sacral canal. This orifice is formed behind by the spiuous process and laminse of the first sacral vertebra, whilst projecting from