358 Of the Arteries. The Arteries are cylindrical tubular vessels, "which, serve to convey blood from both ventricles of the heart to every part of the body. These vessels were named arteries {arjp tj^pfiv, to contain air), from the belief entertained by the ancients that they contained air. To Galen is due the honor of refuting this opinion; he showed that these vessels, though for the most part empty after death, contained blood in the living body. The pulmonary artery, which arises from the right ventricle of the heart, carries venous blood directly into the lungs, from whence it is returned by the pulmonary veins into the left auricle. This constitutes the lesser or piilmonic circulation. The great artery, the aorta, which arises from the left ventricle, conveys arterial blood to the body generally; from whence it is brought back to the right side of the heart by means of the veins. This constitutes the greater or systemic cir- culation. The distribution of the systemic arteries is like a highly ramified tree, the com- mon trunk of which, formed by the aorta, commences at the left ventricle of the heart, the smallest ramifications corresponding to the circumference of the body and the contained organs. The arteries are found in nearly every part of the animal body, with the exception of the hairs, nails, epidermis, cartilages, and cornea; and the larger trunks usually occupy the most protected situations, run- ning, in the limbs, along the flexor side, where they are less exposed to injury. There is considerable variation in the mode of division of the arteries; occa- sionally a short trunk subdivides into several branches at the same point, as we observe in the coeliac and thyroid axes; or the vessel may give off several branches in succession, and still continue as the main trimk, as is seen in the arteries of the limbs; but the usual division is dichotomous, as, for instance, the aorta dividing into the two common iliacs; and the common carotid, into the external and internal carotids. The branches of arteries arise at very variable angles; some, as the superior intercostal arteries, arise from the aorta at an obtuse angle ; others, as the lumbar arteries, at a right angle; or, as the spermatic, at an acute angle. An artery from which a branch is given offj is smaller in size, but retains a uniform diameter until a second branch is derived from it. A branch of an artery is smaller than the trunk from which it arises, but if an artery divides into two branches, the com- bined area of the two vessels is, in nearly every instance, somewhat greater than that of the trunk, and the combined area of all the arterial branches greatly exceeds the area of the aorta; so that the arteries collectively may be regarded as a cone, the apex of which corresponds to the aorta; the base to the capillary system. The arteries, in their distribution, communicate freely with one another, forming what is called an anastomosis (ova, between; stofia, mouth), or inosculation; and this communication is very free between the large, as well as between the smaller branches. The anastomoses between trunks of equal size is found where great freedom and activity of the circulation is requisite, as in the brain; here, the two vertebral arteries unite to form the basilar, and the two internal carotid arteries are connected by a short inter-communicating trunk; it is also found in the abdomen, the intestinal arteries having very free anastomoses between their larger branches. In the limbs, the anastomoses are most frequent and of largest size around the joints; the branches of an artery above, freely inosculating with branches from the vessel below. These anastomoses are of considerable interest to the surgeon, as it is by their enlargement that a collateral circulation is established after the application of a ligature to an artery for the cure of aneurism. The smaller branches of arteries anastomose more frequently than the larger; and between the smallest