THE LIVER. one-tliird from its posterior extremity, and divides it into two parts. The anterior half is called the umbilical fissure; it is deeper than the posterior part, and lodges the umbilical vein in the foetus, or its fibrous cord (the round ligament) in the adult. This fissure is often partially bridged over by a prolongation of the hepatic substance, the pons hepatis. The fissure of the ductus venosus is the back part of the longitudinal fissure; it is shorter and shallower than the anterior portion. It lodges in the foetus the ductus venosus, and in the adult a slender fibrous cord, the obliterated remains of that vessel. Fig. 342.—The Liver. Under Surface. The transverse or portal fissure is a short but deep fissure, about two inches in length, extending transversely across the under surface of the right lobe, nearer to its posterior than its anterior border. It joins, nearly at right angles, with the longitudinal fissure. By the older anatomists, this fissure was considered the gateway (porta) of the liver; hence the large vein which enters at this point was called the portal vein. Besides this vein, the fissure transmits the hepatic artery and nerves, and the hepatic duct and lymphatics. At their entrance into the fissure, the hepatic duct lies in front to the right, the portal vein behind, and the hepatic artery between the other two to the left. The fissure for the gall-hladder [fossa cystidis fellese) is a shallow, oblong fossa, placed on the uader surface of the right lobe, parallel with the longitudinal fissure. It extends from the anterior free margin of the liver, which is occa- sionally notched for its reception, to near the right extremity of the transverse fissure. The fissure for the vena cava is a short deep fissure, occasionally a complete canal, which extends obliquely upwards from a little behind the right extremity of the transverse fissure, to the posterior border of the organ, where it joins the fissure for the ductus venosus. On slitting open the inferior vena cava Avhich is contained in it, a deep fossa is seen, at the bottom of which the hepatic veins communicate with this vessel. This fissure is separated from the transverse fissure by the lobus caudatus; and from the longitudinal fissure by the lobus Spi- gelii. Lobes. The lobes of the liver, like the ligaments and fissures, are also five in number; the right lobe, the left lobe, the lobus quadratus, the lobus Spigelii, and the lobus caudatus. The right lobe is much larger than the left; the proportion between them being