352 MUSCLES AND FASCIA. Relations. By its superficial surface, witli the plantar fascia. By its deep surface, witla the Flexor accessorius, the Flexor brevis minimi digiti, the long plantar ligament, and Peroneus longus. On its inner side are the external plantar vessels and nerve, and it is separated from the Flexor brevis digitorum by a ver- tical septum of fascia. Dissection. The muscles of the superficial layer should be divided at their origin, by inserting the knife beneath each, and cutting obliquely backwards, so as to detach them from the bone; they should then be drawn forwards, in order Fig. 195.-Mu5cles of the Sole of the Foot. expose the second layer, but not separated Secoud Layer. their insertion. T he two layers are sepa- rated by a thin membrane, the deep plantar fascia, on the removal of which are seen the tendon of the Flexor longus digitorum, with its accessory muscle, the Flexor longus pol- licis, and the Ijumbricales. The long flexor tendons cross each other at an acute angle, the Flexor longus poUicis running along the inner side of the foot, on a plane SBperior to that of the Flexor longus digitorum, the di- rection of which is obliquely outwards. Second Layer. Flexor Accessorius. Lumbricales. The Flexor Accessorius arises by two heads: the inner or larger, which is muscular, being attached to the inner concave surface of the os calcis, and to the calcaneo-scaphoid ligament; the outer head, flat and tendinous, to the under surface of the os calcis, in front of its outer tuberosity, and to the long plantar ligament. The two portions become united at an acute angle, and are inserted into the outer margin and upper and imder surfaces of the tendon of the Flexor longus digitorum, form- ing a kind of groove, in which the tendon is lodged. Relations. By its superficial surf ace, with the muscles of the superficial layer, from which it is separated by the external plantar vessels and nerves. By its deep surface, with the os calcis and long calcaneo-cuboid ligament. The Lumhricales are four small muscles, accessory to the tendons of the Flexor longus digitorum: they arise from the tendons of the long Flexor, as far back as their angle of division, each arising from two tendons, except the internal one. Each muscle terminates in a tendon, which passes forwards on the inner side of each of the lesser toes, and is inserted into the expansion of the long Extensor and base of the second phalanx of the corresponding toe. Dissection. The Flexor tendons should be divided at the back part of the foot, and the Flexor accessorius at its origin, and drawn forwards, in order to expose the third layer.