NINTH OR HYPOGLOSSAL NERYB. 545 Branches of this nerve communicate with the Pneumogastric. First and second cervical nerves. Sympathetic. Gustatory. The communication with the pneumogastric takes place close to the exit of the nerve from the skull, numerous filaments passing between the hypoglossal and second ganglion of the pneumogastric, or both being united so as to form one mass. The communication with the sympathetic takes place opposite the atlas, by branches derived from the superior cervical ganglion, and in the same situation it is joined by a filament with the loop connecting the first two cervical nerves. The communication with the gustatory takes place near the anterior border of the Hyo-glossus muscle by numerous filaments, which ascend u]3on it. The branches of distribution are the Descendens noni. Thyro-hyoid. Muscular. The Descendens noni is a long slender branch, which quits the hypoglossal where it turns round the occipital artery. It descends obliquely across the sheath of the carotid vessels, and joins just below the middle of the neck, to form a loop with the communicating branches from the second and third cervical nerves. From the convexity of this loop, branches pass forwards to supply the Sterno-hyoid, Sterno-thyroid, and both bellies of the Omo-hyoid. According to Arnold, another filament descends in front of the vessels into the chest, which joins the cardiac and phrenic nerves. The descendens noni is occasionally contained in the sheath of the carotid vessels, being sometimes placed over and sometimes beneath the internal jugular vein. The Thyro-hyoid is a small branch, arising from the hypoglossal near the pos- terior border of the Hyo-glossus; it passes obliquely across the great cornu of the hyoid bone, and supplies the Thyro-hj^oid muscle. The Muscular branches are distributed to the Stylo-glossus, Hyo-glossus, Genio-hyoid, and Genio-hyo-glossus muscles. At the under surface of the tongue, numerous slender branches pass upwards into the substance of the organ. 3. Nerves of Common Sensation, Fifth Nerve. The Fifth ISTervk {trifacial, trigtminus) is the largest cranial nerve, and resem- bles a spinal nerve, in its origin by two roots, and in the existence of a ganglion on its posterior root. The functions of this nerve are various. It is a nerve of special sense, of common sensation, and of motion. It is the great sensitive nerve of the head and face, the motor nerve of the muscles of mastication (except the Buccinator), and its lingual branch is one of the nerves of the special sense of taste. It arises by two roots, a posterior larger or sensory, and an anterior smaller or motor root. Its superficial origin is from the side of the pons Varolii, a little nearer to its upper than its lower border. The smaller root consists of three or four bundles; in the larger, the bundles are more numerous, varying in number from seventy to a hundred; the two roots are separated from one another by a few of the transverse fibres of the pons. The deej) origin of the larger or sensory root may be traced between the transverse fibres of the pons Varolii to the lateral tract of the medulla oblongata, immediately behind the olivary body. According to some anatomists, it is connected with the gray nucleus at the back part of the medulla, between the fasciculi teretes and restiform columns. By others, it is said to be continuous with the fasciculi teretes and lateral column of the cord; and, according to Foville, some of its fibres are connected v/ith the transverse fibres of the pons; whilst others enter the cerebellum, spreading out on the sur- face of its middle peduncle. The motor root has been traced by Bell and Eetzius to be connected with the pyramidal body. The two roots of the nerve pass for- wards through an oval opening in the dura mater, at the apex of the petrous 35