641 MEMBRANOrS LABYRINTH. It has the same general form as the vestibule and semicircular canals, in which it is inclosed; but is considerably smaller, and separated from their lining membrane by the perilymph. The vestibular portion consists of two sacs, the utricle and the saccule. The utricle is the larger of the two, of an oblong form, compressed laterally, and occupies the upper and back part of the vestibule, lying in contact with the Fig. 318.—The Membrauous Labyrinth detached. (Enlarged.) fovea semi-elliptica, Numerous filaments of the auditory nerve are distributed on the wall of this sac; and its cavity communicates, behind, with the membranous semicircular canals by five orifices. The saccule is the smaller of the two vestibular sacs; it is globular in form, lies in the fovea hemispherica, near the opening of the vestibular scala of the cochlea, and receives numerous nervous filaments, which enter from the bottom of the depression in which it is contained. Its cavity is apparently distinct from that of the utricle. The membranous semicircular canals are about one-third the diameter of the osseous canals, but in number, shape, and general form they are precisely similar; they are hollow, and open by five orifices into the utricle, one being common to two canals. Their ampullas are thicker than the rest of the tubes, and nearly fill the cavities in which they are contained. The membranous labyrinth is held in its position by the numerous nervous fila- ments distributed to the utricle, the saccule, and to the ampulla of each canal. These nerves enter the vestibule through the minute apertures on its inner wall. Structure. The wall of the membranous labyrinth is semi-transparent, and con- sists of three layers. The outer layer is a loose and flocculent tissue, containing bloodvessels and numerous pigment-cells, analogous to those in the choroid. The middle layer, thicker and more transparent, bears some resemblance to the hyaloid membrane, but it presents in parts marks of longitudinal fibrillation and elongated nuclei on the addition of acetic acid. The inner layer is formed of polygonal nucleated epithelial cells, which secrete the endolymph, 41