NERYOUS SYSTEM. 512 Fis. 261.—Posterior Surface of Medulla Oblongata. bodies by a narrow groove. They consist entirely of white fibres, and are con. tinuous with the posterior median columns of the spinal cord. These bodies lie at first in close contact. Opposite the apex of the fourth ventricle, they form an enlargement, the processus clavatus, and then, diverging, are lost in the correspond- ing restiform body. The upper part of the posterior pyramids forms the lateral boundaries of the calamus scriptorius. The posterior surface of the medulla oblongata forms part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. It is of a triangular form, bounded on each side by the di- verging posterior pyramids, and is that part of the ventricle which, from its resemblance to the point of a pen, is called the calamus scriptorius. The di- vergence of the posterior pyramids and the restiform bodies opens to view the gray matter of the medulla, which is con- tinuous, below, with the gray commissure of the cord. In the middle line is seen a longitudinal furrow, continuous with the posterior median fissure of the cord, ter- minating, below, at the point of the ven- tricle, in a cul-de-sac, the ventricle of Arantius, which descends into the medulla It is the remains of a canal, which, in the foetus, extends slight extent. for throughout the entire length of the cord. Structure. The columns of the cord are directly continuous with those of the medulla oblongata, below; but, higher up, both the white and gray constituents are re-arranged before they are continued upwards to the cerebram and cere- bellum. The anterior pyramid is composed of fibres derived from the anterior column of the cord of its own side, and from the lateral column of the opposite half of the cord, and is continued upwards into the cerebrum and cerebellum. The cerebellar fibres form a superficial and deep layer, which pass beneath the olive to the restiform body, and spread out into the structure of the cerebellum. A deeper fasciculus incloses the olivary body, and, receiving fibres from it, enters the pons as the olivary fasciculus or Fig. 262.- S'oaterier Tiasart- -Transverse Section of Medulla Oblongata. Eittiaili Teretet Anterit fillet; but the chief mass of fibres from the pyramid, the cerebral fibres, enter the pons in their passage upwards'to the cerebrum. The anterior pyramids contain no gray matter. The lateral tract is continuous, be- low, with the lateral column of the cord. Its fibres pass in three different direc- tions. The most external join the restiform body, and pass to the cerebellum. The internal, more numerous, pass forwards, pushing aside the fibres of the anterior column, and form part of the opposite anterior pyramid. The middle fibres ascend, beneath the olivary body, to the cerebrum, passing along the back of the pons, and form, together with fibres from the restiform body, the fasciculi teretes, in the floor of the fourth ventricle. Olivary hody. If a transverse section is made through either olivary body, it will be found to consist of a small ganglionic mass, deeply imbedded in the medulla,