91 INFERIOR TURBINATED BONE. Attachment of Muscles. The Tensor palati, Azygos uvulae, Internal and External pterygoid. The Inperioe Turbinated Bones. The Inferior Turbinated Bones are situated one on each side of the outer wall of the nasal fossae. Each bone consists of a layer of thin spongy bone, curled upon itself like a scroll, hence its name " turbinated;" and extends horizontally across the outer wall of the nasal fossa, immediately below the orifice of the antrum. Each bone presents two surfaces, two borders, and two extremities. The internal surface (fig. 53) is convex, perforated by numerous apertures, and traversed by longitudinal grooves and canals for the lodgment of arte- ries and veins. In the recent state it is covered by the lining membrane of the nose. The external surf ace i& con- cave (fig. 54), and forms part of the inferior meatus. Its upper border is thin, irregular, and connected to vari- ous bones along the outer wall of the nose. It may be divided into three portions; of these, the anterior arti- culates with the inferior turbinated crest of the superior maxillary bone; the posterior with the inferior turbinated crest of the palate bone; the middle portion of the superior border presents three well-marked processes, which vary much in their size and form. Of these the anterior and smallest is situated at the Fi<r. 54.—Right Inferior Turbinated Bone, junction of the anterior fourth with the posterior three-fourths of the bone; it is small and pointed, and is called the lachry- mal process, for it articulates with the ante- rior inferior angle of the lachrymal bone, and by its margins with the groove on the back of the nasal process of the supe- rior maxillary, and thus assists in forming the lachrymal canal. At the junction of the two middle fourths of the bone, but en- croaching on the latter, a broad thin plate, the ethmoidal ]irocess, ascends to join the unciform process of the ethmoid; from the lower border of this process, a thin lamina of bone ctirves downwards and outwards, hooking over the lower edge of the orifice of the antrum, which it narrows below; it is called the maxillary j^ro- cess, and fixes the bone firmly on to the outer wall of the nasal fossa. The infe- rior border is free, thick and cellular in structure, more especially in the centre of the bone. Both extremities are more or less narrow and pointed. If the bone is held so that its outer concave surface is directed backwards («. e., towards the holder), and its superior border, from which the lachrymal and ethmoidal pro- cesses project, upwards, the lachrymal process will be directed to the side to which the bone belongs. Development. By a single centre which makes its appearance about the middle of foetal life. Articulations. With four bones: one of the cranium, the ethmoid; and three of the face, the superior maxillary, lachrymal and palate. No muscles are attached to this bone. Fig. 53.—Right Inferior Turbinated Bone. Inner Surface.