GENERAL ANATOMY. 23T Eectus abdominis, Obliquus capitis, Transversalis; 3, from tlaeir uses, as Flexors, Extensors, Abductors, etc.; 4, from tlieir sliape, as the Deltoid, Trapezius, Eliom- boideus; 5, from the number of tlieir divisions, as the Biceps from having two beads, the Triceps from having three heads; 6, from their points of attachment, as the Sterno-cleido-mastoid, Sterno-hyoid, Sterno-thyroid. In the description of a muscle, the term origin is meant to imply its more fixed or central attachment; and the term insertion, the movable point upon which the force of the muscle is directed: this holds true, however, for only a very small number of muscles, such as those of the face, which are attached by one extremity to the bone, and by the other to the movable integument; in the greater number, the muscle can be made to act from either extremity. In the dissection of the muscles, the student should pay especial attention to the exact origin, insertion, and actions of each, and its more important relations with surrounding parts. An accurate knowledge of the points of attachment of the muscles is of great importance in the determination of their action. By a knowledge of the action of the muscles, the surgeon is able at once to explain the causes of displacement in the various forms of fracture, or the causes which produce distortion in various forms of deformities, and, consequently, to adopt appropriate treatment in each case. The relations, also, of some of the muscles, especially those in immediate apposition with the larger bloodvessels, and the su.rface- markings they produce, should be especially remembered, as they form most useful guides to the surgeon in the application of a ligature to these vessels. Tendons are white, glistening, fibrous cords, varying in length and thickness, sometimes round, sometimes flattened, of considerable strength, and only slightly elastic. They consist almost entirely of white fibrous tissue, the fibrils of which have an undulating course parallel with each other, and firmly united together. They are very sparingly supplied with bloodvessels, the smaller tendons pre- sentiag in their interior not a trace of them. Nerves also are not present in the smaller tendons; but the larger ones, as the tendo Achillis, receive nerves which accompany the nutrient vessels. The tendons consist principally of a substance which yields gelatine. Aponeuroses are fibrous membranes, of a pearly-white color, iridescent, glisten- ing, and similar in structure to the tendons. They are destitute of nerves, and the thicker ones are only sparingly supplied with bloodvessels. The tendons and aponeuroses are connected, on the one hand, with the muscles; and, on the other hand, with the movable structures, as the bones, cartilages, ligaments,'fibrous membranes (the sclerotic, for instance), and the synovial mem- branes, the subcrureus and subanconeus for example. Where the muscular fibres are continuous in a direct line, with those of the tendon or aponeurosis, the two are directly continuous, the muscular fibre being distinguishable from that of the tendon only by its striation. But where the muscular fibre joins the tendon or aponeurosis at an oblique angle, the former terminates, according to KciUiker, in rounded extremities, which are received into corresponding depressions on the surface of the latter, the connective tissue between the fibres being continuous with that of the tendon. The latter mode of attachment occurs in all the penni- form and semi-penniform muscles, and in those muscles the tendons of which commence in a membranous form, as the Gastrocnemius and Soleus. The Fascias {fascia, a bandage) are fibro-areolar or aponeurotic laminte, of variable thickness and strength, found in all regions of the body, investing the softer and more delicate organs. The fascite have been su.bdivided, from the structure which they present, into two groups, fibro-areolar or superficial fasciae, • and aponeurotic or deep fasciae. The fibro-areolar fascia is found immediately beneath the integument over almost the entire surface of the body, and is generally known as the superficial fascia. It connects the skin with the deep or aponeurotic fascia, and consists of fibro-areolar tissue, containing in its meshes pellicles of fat in varj-ing quantity. In the eyelids and scrotum, where adipose tissue is rarely deposited, this tissvie is