ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 6t0 i Fig. 337.—Patch of Peyer's Glands. From the lower part of the Ileum. Peyer''s glands may be regarded as aggregations of solitary glands, forming circular or oval patches from twenty to thirty in number, and varying in length from half an inch to four inches. They are largest and most numerous in the ileum. In the lower part of the jejunum they are small, of a circular form, and few in number; they are occasionally seen in the duodenum. They are placed lengthwise in the intestine, covering the portion of the tube most distant from the attachment of the mesentery. Each patch is formed of a group of small, round, whitish vesicles, covered with mucous membrane. Each vesicle consists of a moderately thick ex- ternal capsule, having no excretory duct, and containing an opaque white secretion. Each is svirrounded by a zone or wreath of simple follicles, and the interspaces between them are covered with villi. These vesicles are usually closed ; but it has been supposed that they open at intervals to discharge the secretion contained within them. The mu- cous and submucous coats of the intestine are intimately adherent, and highly vascular, opposite the Peyerian glands. Their use is not known [but they are now generally sup- posed to belong to the lymphatic system]. They are largest and most developed during the digestive process. The Laege Intestine. Fig. 338.—A portion of the above magnified. The Large Intestine extends from the termination of the ileum to the anus. It is about five feet in length; being one-fifth of the whole extent of the intestinal canal. It is largest at its commencement at the caecum, and gradually diminishes as faf as the rectum, where there is a dilatation of considerable size, just above the anus. It differs from the small intestine in its greater size, its more fixed position, and its saccu- lated form. The large intestine, in its course, describes an arch, which surrounds the convolutions of the small intestine. It commences in the right iliac fossa, in a dilatation of considerable size, the caecum. It ascends through the right lumbar and hypochondriac regions, to the under surface of the liver; passes transversely across the abdomen, on the confines of the epigastric and umbilical regions, to the left hypochondriac region; descends through the left lumbar region to the left iliac fossa, where it becomes convoluted, and forms the sigmoid flexure; finally, it enters the pelvis, and descends along its posterior wall to the anus. The large intestine is divided into the caecum, colon, and rectum. The Caecum {csecus, blind) is the large blind pouch or cul-de-sac extending downwards from the commencement of the large intestine. It is the most dilated part of this tube, measuring about two and a half inches, both in its vertical and transverse diameters. It is situated in the right iliac fossa, immediately behind the anterior abdominal wall, being retained in its place by the peritoneum, which passes over its anterior surface and sides; its posterior surface being connected by