CLAVICLE. 121 OP THE UPPEE EXTEEMITY. Tlie upper extremity consists of the arm, the forearm, and the hand.. Its con- tinuity with, the trunk is established by means of the shoulder, which is homo- logous with the innominate or haunch bone in the lower limb. OP THE SHOULDEE. The shoulder is placed upon the upper part and side of the chest, connecting the upper extremity to the trunk; it consists of two bones, the clavicle, and the scapula. The Clavicle. ; The Clavicle [clavis, a key) or collar-bone forms the anterior portion of the shoulder. It is a long bone, curved somewhat like the Italic letter /, and placed nearly horizontally at the upper and anterior part of the thorax, immediately above the first rib. It articulates internally with the upper border of the sternum, and with the acromion process of the scapula by its outer extremity; serving to sustain the upper extremity in the various positions which it assumes, whilst, at the same time, it allows it great latitude of motion. The horizontal plane of the clavicle is nearly straight; but in the vertical plane it presents a double curvature, the convexity being, in front, at the sternal end; and, behind, at the scapular end. Its outer third is flattened from above downwards, and extends, in the natural position of the bone, from the coracoid process to the acromion. Its inner two- thirds are of a cylindrical form, and extend from the sternum to the coracoid process of the scapula. External or Flattened Portion. The oiiter third is flattened from above down- wards, so as to present two surfaces, an upper, and a lower; and two borders, an anterior, and a posterior. The itpper surface is flattened, rough, marked in front, for the attachment of the Deltoid; behind, for the Trapezius; between these two impressions, externally, a small portion of the bone is subcutaneous. The under surface is flattened. At its posterior border, at the junction of the prismatic with the flattened portion, is a rough eminence, the conoid tubercle; this, in the natural position of the bone, surmounts the coracoid process of the scapula, and gives attachment to the conoid ligament. From this tubercle, an oblique line, occasionally a depression, passes forwards and outwards to near the outer end of the anterior border; it is called the oblique line, and affords attachment to the trapezoid ligament. The anterior border is concave, thin, and rough; it limits the attachment of the Deltoid, and occasionally presents, near the centre, a tubercle, the deltoid tubercle, which is sometimes distinct in the living subject. The posterior border is convex, rough, broader than the anterior, and gives attachment to the Trapezius. Internal or Cylindrical Portion. The cylindrical portion forms the inner two- thirds of the bone. It is curved, so as to be convex in front, concave behind, and is marked by three borders separating three surfaces. The anterior border is continuous with the anterior margin of the flat portion. At its commencement it is smooth, and corresponds to the unoccupied interval between the attachment of the Pectoralis major and Deltoid muscles; about the centre of the clavicle it divides to inclose an elliptical space for the attachment of the clavicular portion of the Pectoralis major. This space extends imvards as far as the anterior margin of the sternal extremity. The superior border is continuous with the posterior margin of the flat portion, and separates the anterior from the posterior surface. At its commencement it is smooth and rounded, becomes rough towards the inner third for the attachment of the Sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, and terminates at the upper angla of the sternal extremity.