2T8 MUSCLES-AND FASCIA. Nerves. The Erector spinae and its subdivisions in tbe dorsal region are sup- plied by the external posterior branches of the lumbar and dorsal nerves; the Cervicalis ascendens, Transversalis colli, Trachelo-mastoid, and Spinalis cervicis, by the external posterior branches of the cervical nerves; the Complexus, by the internal posterior branches of the cervical nerves, the suboccipital and great occipital. Fifth Layer. Semi-spinalis Dorsi. Semi-spinalis Colli. Multifidus Spinae. Eotatores Spinse. Supra-spinales. Inter-spinales. Extensor Coccygis. Inter-transversales. Eectus Capitis Posticus Major, Eectus Capitis Posticus Minor. Obliquus Superior. Obliquus Inferior. Dissection. The muscles of the precedinfj layer must be removed by dividing and turning aside the Complexus; then detach the Spinalis and Longissimus dorsi from their attachments, and divide the Erector spinae at its connection below to the sacral and lumbar spines, and turn it outward. The muscles filling up the interval between the spinous and transverse processes are then exposed. The Semi-spinales muscles connect the transverse and articular processes to the spinous processes of the vertebrae, extending from the lower part of the dorsal region to the upper part of the cervical. The semi-spinalis dorsi consists of a thin, narrow, fleshy fasciculus, interposed between tendons of considerable length. It arises by a series of small tendons from the transverse processes of the lower dorsal vertebrae, from the tenth or eleventh to the fifth or sixth; and is inserted, by five or six tendons, into the spinous processes of the upper four dorsal and lower two cervical vertebrae. The semi-spinalis colli, thicker than the preceding, arises by a series of tendinous and fleshy points from the transverse processes of the upper four dorsal vertebrae, and from the articular processes of the cervical vertebrae (lower four); and is inserted into the spinous processes of four cervical vertebras, from the axis to the fifth cervical. The fasciculus connected with the axis is the largest, and chiefly muscular in structure. Relations. By their superficial surface, from below upwards, with the Longis- simus dorsi, Spinalis dorsi, Splenius, Complexus, the profunda cervicis and prin- ceps cervicis arteries, and the posterior cervical plexus of nerves. By their deep surface, with the Multifidus spinae. The Multifidus Spinse consists of a number of fleshy and tendinous fasciculi, which fill up the groove on either side of the spinous processes of the vertebrae, from the sacrum to the axis. In the sacral region, these fasciculi arise from the back of the sacrum, as low as the fourth sacral foramen; and from the aponeurosis of origin of the Erector spinae. In the iliac region, they arise from the inner surface of the posterior superior spine, and posterior sacro-iliac ligaments. In the lumbar and cervical regions, they arise from the articular processes; and in the dorsal region, from the transverse processes. Each fasciculus, ascending obliquely upwards and inwards, is inserted into the lamina and whole length of the spinous process of the vertebra above. These fasciculi vary in length; the most superficial, the longest, pass from one vertebra to the third or fourth above; those next in order pass from one vertebra to the second or third above; whilst the deepest connect two contiguous vertebrae. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Longissimus dorsi. Spinalis dorsi, Semi-spinalis dorsi, and Semi-spinalis colli. By its deep surface, with the laminae and spinous processes of the vertebrae, and with the Eotatores spinae in the dorsal region. The Rotatores Spinse are found only in the dorsal region of the spine, beneath the Multifidus spinte; they are eleven in number on each side. Each muscle,