79 THE FONTANELLES. divided by a thin transverse bony partition into two sets, which do not commu- nicate with each other; they are termed the anterior and posterior ethmoidal cells; the former, the smallest but the most numerous, communicate with the frontal sinuses above, and the middle meatus below, by means of a long flexuous cellular canal, the infunclibulum; the posterior, the largest and least numerous, open into the superior meatus, and communicate (occasionally) with the sphenoidal sinuses. Development. By three centres; one for the perpendicular lamella, and one for each lateral mass. The lateral masses are first developed, ossific granules making their first appearance in the os planum between the fourth and fifth months of foetal life, and afterwards in the spongy bones. At birth, the bone consists of the two lateral masses, which are small and ill-developed; but when the perpendicular and horizontal plates begin to ossify, as they do about the first year after birth, the lateral masses become joined to the cribriform plate. The formation and increase in the ethmoidal cells, which complete the fbrnlation of the bone, take place about the fifth or sixth year. Articulations. With fifteen bones; the sphenoid, two sphenoidal turbinated, the frontal, and eleven of the face—two nasal, two superior maxillary, two lachrymal, two palate, two inferior turbinated, and vomer. Development of the Ceaotum. The development of the cranium takes place at a very early period, on account of the im- portance of the organ it is intended to protect. In its most rudimentary state, it consists of a thin membranous capsule; inclosing the cerebrum, and accurately moulded upon its surface. This capsule is placed external to the dura mater, and in close contact with it; its walls are continuous with the canal for the spinal cord, and the chorda dorsalis, or primitive part of the vertebral column, is continued forwards, from the spine, along the base, to its fore part, where it terminates in a tapering point. The next step in the process of development is the formation of cartilage. This is deposited in the base of the skull, in two symmetrical segments, one on either side of the median line; these subsequently coalesce, so as to inclose the chorda doi'salis: the chief part of the cerebral capsule still re- taining its membranous form. Ossification first takes place in the roof, and is preceded by the deposition of a membranous blastema upon the surface of the cerebral capsule, in which the ossi- fying process extends; the primitive membranous capsule becoming the internal periosteum, and being ultimately blended with the dura mater. Although the bones of the vertex of the skull appear before those at the base, and make con- siderable progress in their growth, at birth ossifi- cation is more advanced in the base, this portion of the skull forming a solid immovable ground- work. Fis. 41.- -Skull at Birth, showing the Anterior and Posterior Fontanelles. The Fontanelles (figs. 41 and 42). Before birth, the bones at the vertex and side of the skull are separated from each other by membranous intervals, in which bone is deficient. These intervals, at certain parts, are of consider- able size, and are termed the fontanelles, so called from the pulsations of the brain, which resemble the rising of water at a fountain head. The fontanelles are four in number, and corre- spond to the junction of the four angles of the parietal with the contiguous bones. The ante- rior fontanelle is the largest, and corresponds to the junction of the sagittal and coronal sutures; the posterior fontanelle, of smaller size, is situ- ated at the junction of the sagittal and lambdoid sutures ; the two remaining ones are situated at Fig. 42.—The Lateral Fontanelles.