133 HTJMERUS. Fig. 3.—Plan of the Development of the Humerus. By 7 Centres. Ep iphysfs nf Head Sc Thlberosiiies hleml' at I cy" S*^ tfr and unite uiih Shaft at zut^ll' one for tlie greater tuberosity, one for tlie radial portion of the articular surface, one for the trochlear portion, and one for each condyle. The centre for the shaft appears very early, soon after ossification has commenced in the clavicle, and soon extends towards the extremities. At birth, it is ossified nearly in its whole length, the extremities remaining cartilaginous. Between the first and second years, ossification commences in the head of the bone, and between the second and third years the centre for the tuberosities makes its appearance usually by a single ossific point, but sometimes, according to Beclard, by one for each tube- rosity, that for the lesser being small, and not appearing until after the fourth year. By the fifth year, the centres for the head and tuberosities have enlarged and become joined, so as to form a single large epiphysis. The lower end of the humerus is devel- oped in the following manner: At the end of the second year, ossification commences in the radial portion of the articular sur- face, and from this point extends inwards, so as to form the chief part of the articular end of the bone, the centre for the inner part of the articular surface not appearing until about the age of twelve. Ossification commences in the internal condyle about the fifth year, and in the external one not until between the thirteenth or foiirteenth year. About the sixteenth or seventeenth year, the outer condyle and both portions of the articulating surface, having already joined, unite with the shaft; at eighteen years, the inner condyle becomes joined, whilst the upper epiphysis, although the first formed, is not united until about the twentieth year. Articulations. With the glenoid cavity of the scapula, and with the ulna and radius. Attachment of Muscles. To the greater tuberosity, the Supra-spinatus, Infra-spina- tus, and Teres minor; to the lesser tube- rosity, the Subscapularis; to the anterior bicipital ridge, the Pectoralis major; to the posterior bicipital ridge and groove, the Latissimus dorsi and Teres major; to the shaft, the Deltoid, Coraco-brachialis, Bra- chialis anticus, external and internal heads of the Triceps; to the internal condyle, the Pronator radii teres, and common tendon of the Flexor carpi radialis, Palmaris longus, Flexor digitorum sublimis, and Flexor carpi ulnaris; to the external condyloid ridge, the Supinator longus, and Extensor carpi radialis longior; to the external condyle, the common tendon of the Extensor carpi radialis brevior. Extensor communis digitorum, Extensor minimi digiti, and Extensor carpi ulnaris, the Anconeus, and Supinator brevis. Xfjiites with \ Shaft at 11? ^ Sleni % (V^ THE FOREARM. The Forearm is that portion of the upper extremity, situated between the elbow and wrist. It is composed of two bones, the Ulna, and the Eadius. The Ulna. The Ulna (figs. 90 and 91), so called from its forming the elbow (wxti/?;), is a long bone, prismatic in form, placed at the inner side of the forearm, parallel with the