SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. 85 The Alveolar Process is the thickest and most spongy part of the bone, broader behind than in front, and excavated into deep cavities for the reception of the teeth. These cavities are eight in number, and vary in size and depth according to the teeth they contain: those for the canine teeth being the deepest; those for the molars being widest, and subdivided into minor cavities; those for tlie incisors being single, but deep and narrow. The Palate Process, thick and strong, projects horizontally inwards from the inner surface of the bone. It is much thicker in front than behind, and forms a considerable part of the floor of the nares, and the roof of the mouth. Its upper surface is concave from side to side, smooth, and forms part of the floor of the nose. In front is seen the upper orifice of the anterior palatine (incisor) canal, which leads into a fossa formed by the junction of the two superior maxillary bones, and is situated immediately behind the incisor teeth. It transmits the ante- rior palatine vessels, the naso-palatine nerves passing through the intermaxillary suture. The inferior surface, also concave, is rough and uneven, and forms part of the roof of the mouth. This surface is perforated by numerous foramina for the passage of nutritious vessels, channelled at the back part of its alveolar border by a longitudinal groove, sometimes a canal, for the transmission of the posterior palatine vessels, and a large nerve, and presents little depressions for the lodgment of the palatine glands. This surface presents anteriorly the lower orifice of the anterior palatine fossa. In some bones, a delicate linear suture may be seen extending from the anterior palatine fossa to the interval between the lateral incisor and the canine teeth. This marks out the intermaxillary bone, which in some animals exists permanently as a separate piece. It includes the whole thick- ness of the alveolus, the corresponding part of the floor of the nose, and the anterior nasal spine, and contains the sockets of the incisor teeth. The outer border of the palate process is firmly united with the rest of the ^'^i- 47.—Development of Superior Maxillary Bone. By bone. The inner border is thicker in front than behind, raised above into a ridge, which, with the cor- responding ridge in the opposite bone, forms a groove for the re- ception of the vomer. The an- terior margin is bounded by the thin concave border of the open- ing of the nose, prolonged for- wards internally into a sharp process, forming, with a similar process of the opposite bone, the anterior nasal spine. The pos- terior border is serrated for articulation with the horizontal plate of the palate bone. Development. This bone is formed at such an early period, and ossification proceeds in it with such rapidity, that it has been found impracticable hither- to to determine with accuracy its number of centres. It ap- pears, however, probable that it has four centres of development, viz., one for the nasal and facial portions, one for the orbital and malar, one for the incisive, and one for the palatal portion, including the entire palate except the incisive segment. The incisive portion is indicated in young bones by a fissure, which marks olf a small segment of the palate, including the two incisor teeth. In some animals, this remains permanently as a separate piece, constituting the intermaxillary bone: and