435 SCIATIC. The internal j^udic artery in the female is smaller than in the male. Its origin and coarse are similar, and there is considerable analogy in the distribution of its branches. The superficial artery supplies the labia pudendi; the artery of the bulb supplies the erectile tissue of the bulb of the vagina, whilst the two terminal branches supply the clitoris; the artery of the corpus cavernosum, the cavernous body of the clitoris; and the arteria dorsalis clitori- '^'^Z- 230.—The Arteries of the Gluteal aud Posterior Femoral dis, the dorsum of that Regioua. organ. The Sciatic Aetery (fig. 230), the larger of the two terminal branches of the anterior trunk of the internal iliac, is distributed to the muscles on the back of the pelvis. It passes down to the lower part of the great sacro-sciatic fora- men, behind the internal pudic, resting on the sacral plexus of nerves and Pyri- formis muscle, and escapes frQm the pelvis between the Pyriformis and Coccy- geus. It then descends in the interval between the trochanter major and tu- berosity of the ischium, accompanied by the sciatic nerves, and covered by the Gluteus maximus, and di- vides into branches, which supply the deep muscles at the back of the hip. Within the pelvis, it dis- tributes branches to the Pyriformis, Coccygeus, and Superi. Internal Ai TermtTHthoTi- Superior Ilaseulan Sxtemul Articular- Levator ani muscles; some hemorrhoidal branches, which supply the rectum, and occasionally take the place of the middle hemor- rhoidal artery; and vesical branches to the base and neck of the bladder, vesi- cuIeb seminales, and pros- tate gland. External to the pelvis, it gives off"the coccy- geal, inferior gluteal, comes nervi ischiadici, muscular, and articular branches. The coccygeal branch runs inwards, pierces the great sacro-sciatic ligament, and supplies the Gluteus maximus, the integument, and other structures on the back of the coccyx. The inferior gluteal branches, three or four in number, supply the Gluteus maximus muscle. The comes nervi ischiadici is a long slender vessel, which accompanies the great