YASCULAR SYSTEM OF THE FCETTJS. 699 tlae lieart; towards tlie base they enter the anterior and posterior longitudinal furrows, so as to include each cavity singly, or, passing across them, surround both ventricles, more fibres passing across the posterior than the anterior furrow. They finally ascend in the substance of the ventricle, to be inserted into the fibrous rings at its base. Vessels and Nerves. The arteries supplying the heart are the anterior and pos- terior coronary. The veins accompany the arteries, and terminate in the right auricle. They are the great cardiac vein, the small or anterior cardiac veins, and the venas cordis minimce (yense Thehesii). The lymphatics terminate in the thoracic and right lymphatic ducts. The nerves are derived from the cardiac plexuses, which are formed partly from the spinal, and partly from the sympathetic system. They are freely distributed both on the surface, and in the substance of the heart; the separate filaments being furnished with small ganglia. These have been figured by Remak, but the more extended investigations of Dr. Eobert Lee have shown them to exist in great abundance, both in the nerves distributed to the surface, and in those in the interior of the organ. Peculiarities in the Yascular System of the Fcetus. The chief peculiarities in the heart of the foetus are the direct communication between the two auricles by the foramen ovale, and the large size of the Eustachian valve. There are also several minor peculiarities. Thus, the position of the heart is vertical until the fourth month, when it commences to assume an oblique direction. Its size is also very considerable, as compared with the body, the proportion at the second month being as 1 to 50: at birth, it is as 1 to 120: whilst, in the adult, the average is about 1 to 160. At an early period of foetal life, the auricular portion of the heart is larger than the ventricular, the right auricle being more capacious than the left; but, towards birth, the ventricular portion becomes the larger. The thickness of both ventricles is, at first, about equal; but, towards birth, the left becomes much the thicker of the two. ■ The foramen ovale is situated at the lower and back part of the septum auricularum. Through it the auricles communicate with each other. It attains its greatest size at the sixth month. The Eustachian valve is developed from the anterior border of the inferior vena cava, at its entrance in the auricle, and, rising up on the left side of the opening of this vein, serves to direct the blood from the inferior vena cava through the foramen ovale into the left auricle. The peculiarities in the arterial system of the foetus are the communication between the pulmonary artery and descending aorta, by means of the ductus arteriosus, and the communication between the internal iliac arteries and the placenta, by the umbilical arteries. The ductus arteriosus is a short tube, about half an inch in length at birth, and of the diameter of a goose-quill. It connects the left branch of the pulmonary artery with the termination of the arch of the aorta, just beyond the origin of the left subclavian artery. It conducts the chief part of the blood of the right ventri- cle into the descending aorta. The umbilical or hypogastric arteries arise from the internal iliacs, in addition to the usual branches given ofi" from these vessels in the adult. Ascending along the sides of the bladder to its fundus, they pass out of the abdomen at the umbilicus, and are continued along the umbilical cord to the placenta, coiling round the umbilical vein. They return the blood to the placenta which has been circulated in the system of the foetus. The peculiarity in the venous system of the foetus is the communication established between the placenta and the liver and portal vein, through tha umbilical vein, and with the inferior vena cava by the ductus venosus.