OSTEOLOGY. 68 inwards it terminates at the commencement of a well-marked fissure, the Glaserian fissure; whilst the posterior root, which is strongly marked, runs from the upper border of the zygoma, in an arched direction, upwards and backwards, forming the posterior part of the temporal ridge. At the junction of the anterior root with the zygoma is a projection, called the tubercle^ for the attachment of the external lateral ligament of the lower jaw; and between the anterior and middle roots is an oval depression, forming part of the glenoid fossa {y^rvr;, a shallow pit), for the reception of the condyle of the lower jaw. This fossa is bounded, in front, by the eminentia articularis; behind, by the vaginal process; and, externally, by the auditory process, and middle root of the zygoma; and is divided into two parts by a narrow slit, the Glaserian fissure: the anterior part, formed by the squamous portion of the bone, is smooth, and covered in the recent state with cartilage, and articulates with the condyle of the lower jaw. This part of the glenoid fossa is separated from the auditory process, by a small tubercle, ihQ post-glenoid process, Fig. 31.—Left Temporal Bone. Inner Surface. the representative of a prominent tubercle which, in some of the mammalia, descends behind the condyle of the jaw, and prevents it being displaced backwards during mastication (Humphry). The posterior part of the glenoid fossa is formed chiefly by the vaginal process of the petrous portion, and lodges part of the parotid gland. The Glaserian fissure, which leads into the tympanum, lodges the pro- cessus gracilis of the malleus, and transmits the Laxator tympani muscle and the anterior tympanic artery. The chorda tympani nerve passes through a separate canal parallel to the Glaserian fissure (canal of Huguier), on the outer side of the Eustachian tube, in the retiring angle between the squamous and petrous portions of the temporal bone. The internal surface of the squamous portion (fig. 81) is concave, presents numerous eminences and depressions for the convolutions of the cerebrum, and two well-marked grooves for branches of the middle meningeal artery. Borders. The superior border is thin, bevelled at the expense of the internal surface, so as to overlap the lower border of the parietal bone, forming the