184 ARTICULATIONS. in the knee, and tiie tendon of the Biceps in the shoulder. In most of the joints, tlie synovial membrane is thrown into folds, which project into the cavity. Some of these folds contain large masses of fat. These are especially distinct in the hip and the knee. Others are flattened folds, subdivided at their margins into fringe-like processes, the vessels of which have a convoluted arrangement. The latter generally project from the synovial membrane near the margin of the cartilage, and lie flat upon its surface. They consist of connective tissue, covered with epithelium, and contain fat cells in variable quantity, and, more rarely, isolated cartilage cells. They are found in most of the bursal and vaginal, as well as in the articular synovial membranes, and were described, by Clopton Havers, as mucilaginous glands, and as the source of the synovial secretion. Under certain diseased conditions, similar processes are found covering the entire surface of the synovial membrane, forming a mass of pedunculated fibro-fatty growths, which project into the joint. The hursse are found interposed between surfaces which move upon each other, producing friction, as in the gliding of a tendon, or of the integument over pro- jecting bony surfaces. They admit of subdivision into two kinds, the hursse mucosae and the synovial hursae. The former are large, simple, or irregular cavities in the subcutaneous areolar tissue, inclosing a clear viscid fluid. They are found in various situations, as between the integument and front of the patella, over the olecranon, the malleoli, and other prominent parts. The synovial hursse are found interposed between muscles or tendons as they play over projecting bony surfaces, as between the Glutei muscles and surface of the great trochanter. They consist of a thin wall of connective tissue, partially covered by epithelium, and contain a viscid fluid. Where one of these exists in the neighborhood of a joint, it usually communicates with its cavity, as is generally the case with the bursa between the tendon of the Psoas and Iliacus, and the capsular ligament of the hip, or the one interposed between the under surface of the Subscapularis and the neck of the scapula. The vaginal synovial memhranes or synovial sheaths serve to facilitate the gliding of tendons in the osseo-fibrous canals through which they pass. The membrane is here arranged in the form of a sheath, one layer of which adheres to the wall of the canal, and the other is reflected upon the outer surface of the con- tained tendon; the space between the two free surfaces of the membrane being partially filled with synovia. These sheaths are chiefly found surrounding the tendons of the Flexor and Extensor muscles of the fingers and toes, as they pass through the osseo-fibrous canals in the hand or foot. Synovia is a transparent, yellowish-white, or slightly reddish fluid, viscid like the white of egg, having an alkaline reaction, and slightly saline taste. It consists, according to Frerichs, in the ox, of 94.85 water, 0.56 mucus and epithelium, 0.07 fat, 3.51 albumen and extractive matter, and 0.99 salts. The Articulations are divided into three classes: Synarthrosis, or immovable joints; AmiMarthrosis, or mixed joints; and Diarthrosis, or movable joints. 1. Synaetheosis. Immovable Aeticulations. Synarthroses [avv, with, apepov, a joint) or Immovable Joints include all those articulations in which the surfaces of the bones are in almost direct contact, not separated by an intervening synovial cavity, and immovably connected with each other, as between the bones of the cranium and face, excepting the lower jaw. The varieties of synarthrosis are three in number; Sutura, Schindylesis, and Gomphosis. Sutura (a seam). AVhere the articulating surfaces are connected by a series of processes and indentations interlocked together, it is termed sutura vera ; of which there are three varieties, sutura dentata, sutura serrata and sutura limbosa. The surfaces of the bones are not in direct contact, being separated by a layer of mem- V)vane continuous externally with the pericranium, internally with the dura mater.