193 OF THE SPINE WITH THE CRANIUM. below, to tlie upper edge of tlie laminae of the axis. This ligament supplies the place of the ligamenta subflava, and is in relation, behind, with the Inferior oblique muscles. The Transverse Ligament (figs. 119 and 120) is a thick and strong ligamentous band, which arches across the ring of the atlas, and serves to retain the odontoid process in firm connection with its anterior arch. This ligament is flattened from before backwards, broader and thicker in the middle than at either extremity, and firmly attached on each side of the atlas to a small tubercle on the inner surface of each of its lateral masses. As it crosses the odontoid process, a small fasciculus is derived from its upper and lower borders; the former passing upwards, to be inserted into the basilar process of the occipital bone; the latter downwards, to Fig. 119.—Articulation between Odontoid Process and Atlas. be attached to the root of the odontoid process: hence, this ligament has received the name of cruciform. The transverse ligament divides the ring of the atlas into two unequal parts: of these, the posterior and larger serves for the transmission of the cord and its membranes; the anterior and smaller serving to retain the odontoid process in its position. The lower border of the space between the atlas and transverse ligament being smaller than the upper, on account of the transverse ligament embracing firmly the narrow neck of the odontoid process, this process is retained in firm connection with the atlas when all the other ligaments have been divided. The Capsular Ligaments are two thin and loose capsules, connecting the articu- lar surfaces of the atlas and axis, the fibres being strongest on the anterior and external part of the articulation. There are four Synovial Membranes in this articulation. One lining the inner surface of each of the capsular ligaments; one between the anterior surface of the odontoid process and anterior arch of the atlas; and one between the posterior surface of the odontoid process and the transverse ligament. The latter often communicates Avith those between the condyles of the occipital bone and the articular surfaces of the atlas. Actions. This joint is capable of great mobility, and allows the rotation of the atlas, and, with it, of the cranium upon the axis, the extent of rotation being limited by the odontoid ligaments. III. AETICULATION OF THE SPINE WITH THE CRANIUM. The ligaments connecting the spine with the cranium may be divided' into two sets: 1. Those connecting the occipital bone with the atlas; 2. Those: connecting the occipital bone with the axis. 13