60 OSTEOLOGY. they are converted into canals by articulation with the ethmoid, and are called the anterior and posterior ethmoidal canals; they open on the inner wall of the orbit. The anterior one transmits the nasal nerve and anterior ethmoidal vessels; the posterior one, the posterior ethmoidal vessels. In front of the ethmoidal notch is the nasal spine, a sharp-pointed eminence which projects downwards and forwards, and articulates in front with the crest of the nasal bones; behind, it is marked by two grooves, separated by a vertical ridge: the ridge articulates with the perpendicular lamella of the ethmoid, the grooves form part of the roof of the nasal fossas. On either side of the base of the nasal spine are the openings of the frontal sinuses. These are two irregular cavities, which extend upwards and outwards, a variable distance, between the two tables of the skull, and are separated from one another by a thin bony septum. They give rise to the prominences above the root of the nose, called the nasal eminences and superciliary ridges. In the child they are generally absent, and they become gradually developed as age advances. These cavities vary in size in different persons, are larger in men than in women, and are frequently of tinequal size on the two sides, the left being commonly the larger. Occasionally they are subdivided by incomplete bony laminse. They are lined by mucous membrane; and communicate with the nose by the infundibulum, and occasionally with each other by apertures in the septum. The Internal Surface of the horizontal portion presents the convex upper surfaces of the orbital plates, separated from each other in the middle line by the ethmoidal notch, and marked by eminences and depressions for the convolutions of the anterior lobes of the brain. Borders. The border of the vertical portion is thick, strongly serrated, bevelled at the expense of the internal table above, where it rests upon the parietal, at the expense of the external table at e'ach side, where it receives the lateral pressure of those bones: this border is continued below, into a triangvilar rough surface, which articulates with the great wing of the sphenoid. The border of the horizontal portion is thin, serrated, and articulates with the lesser wing of the sphenoid. Structure. The vertical portion, and external angular processes, are very thick, consisting of diploic tissue contained between two compact laminae. The hori- zontal portion is thin, translucent, and composed entirely of compact tissue; hence the facility with which instruments can penetrate the cranium through this part of the orbit. Development (fig. 29). The frontal bone is formed in membrane, being developed by two centres, one for each lateral half, which make their appearance, at an early period of foetal life, in the situ- ation of the orbital arches. From this point, ossification extends, in a radiating manner, upwards into the forehead, and backwards over the orbit. At birth, it consists of two pieces, which afterwards become united along the middle line, by a suture which runs from the vertex to the root of the nose. This suture be- comes obliterated within a few years after birth; but it occasionally remains through- out life. Articulations. With twelve bones: two parietal, sphenoid, ethmoid, two nasal, two superior maxillary, two lachrymal, and two malar. Attachment of Muscles. To three pairs: the Corrugator supercilii, Orbicularis palpebrarum, and Temporal. Fig. 29.—Frontal Bone at Birth. Developed by two lateral Halves.