DORSALIS PEDIS. 449 Plan of the Relations of the Doesalis Pedis Artery. In front. Integument and fascia. Innermost tendon of Extensor brevis digitorum. Tibial Ride. Extensor proprius pollicis. Fibular side. Extensor longus digitorum Anterior tibial nerve. Behind. Astragalus. Scaphoid. Internal cuneiform. Their ligaments. Pecidiarities in Size. The dorsal artery of the foot may be larger than usual, to compensate for a deficient plantar artery; or it may be deficient in its terminal branches to the toes, which are then derived from the internal plantar; or its place may be supplied altogether by a large anterior peroneal artery. Position. This artery frequently curves outwards, lying external to the line between the middle of the ankle and the back part of the first interosseous space. Surgical Anatomy. This artery may be tied, by making an incision through the integument, between two and three inches in length, on the fibular side of the tendon of the Extensor pro- prius pollicis, in the interval between it and the inner border of the short Extensor muscle. The incision should not extend further forwards than the back part of the first interosseous space, as the artery divides in this situation. The deep fascia being divided to the same extent, the artery will be exposed, the nerve lying upon its outer side. Branches. The branches of the dorsalis pedis are the The tarsea artery arises from the dorsalis pedis, as that vessel crosses the sca- phoid bone; it passes in an arched direction outwards, lying upon the tarsal bones, and covered by the Extensor brevis digitorum; it supplies that muscle and the articulations of the tarsus, and anastomoses with branches from the metatarsea, external malleolar, peroneal, and external plantar arteries. The metatarsea arises a little anterior to the preceding; it passes outwards to the outer part of the foot, over the bases of the metatarsal bones, beneath the tendons of the short Extensor, its direction being influenced by its point of origin; and it anastomoses with the tarsea and external plantar arteries. This vessel gives off three branches, the interossese, which pass forwards upon the three outer Dorsal interossei muscles, and, in the clefts between the toes, divide into two dorsal collateral branches for the adjoining toes. At the back part of each interosseous space these vessels receive the posterior perforating branches from the plantar arch; and at the fore part of each interosseous space, they are joined by the anterior perforating branches from the digital arteries. The outer- most interosseous artery gives off a branch which supplies the outer side of the little toe. The dorsalis hallucis runs forwards alona; the outer border of the first meta- tarsal bone, and, at the cleft between the first and second toes, divides into two branches, one of which passes inwards, beneath the tendon of the Flexor longus pollicis, and is distributed to the inner border of the great toe; the other branch bifurcating to supply the adjoining sides of the great and second toes. The communicating artery dips down into the sole of the foot, between the two heads of the first Dorsal interosseous muscle, and inosculates with the termination Tarsea. Metatarsea. Interossete. Dorsalis hallucis. Communicating. 29