MUSCLES AND FASCIA. 280 into tlie rougli surface beneatli the inferior curved line, nearly as far as tlie fora- men magnum, nearer to the middle line than the preceding. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Complexus. By its deej) surface, with the posterior occipito-atloid ligament. The Ohliquus Liferior, the largest of the two oblique muscles, arises from the apex of the spinous process of the axis, and passes almost horizontally outwards, to be inserted into the apex of the transverse process of the atlas. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Complexus, and is crossed by the posterior branch of the second cervical nerve. By its deep surface, with the ver- tebral artery, and posterior occipito-atloid ligament. The Obliquus Sup)erior, narrow below, wide and expanded above, arises by ten- dinous fibres from the upper part of the transverse process of the atlas, joining with the insertion of the preceding, and, passing obliquely upwards and inwards, is inserted into the occipital bone, between the two curve4 lines, external to the Complexus. Between the two oblique muscles .and the Rectus posticus major, a triangular interval exists, in which are seen the vertebral artery, and the posterior branch of the suboccipital nerve. Relations. By its superficial surfa.ce, with the Complexus and Trachelo-mastoid. By its deep surface, with the posterior occipito-atloid ligament. Nerves. The Semi-spinalis dorsi and Eotatores spinas are supplied by the internal posterior branches of the dorsal nerves. The Semi-spinalis colli, Supra- spinales, and Inter-spinales, by the internal posterior branches of the cervical nerves. The Inter-transversales, by the internal posterior branches of the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar nerves. And the Multifidus spinas, by the same, with the addition of the internal posterior branches of the sacral nerves. The Eecti and Obliqui muscles are all supplied by the suboccipital and great occipital nerves. Actions. The Erector spinte, comprising the Sacro-lumbalis, with its accessory muscles, the Longissimus dorsi and Spinalis dorsi, serves, as its name implies, to maintain the spine in the erect posture; it also serves to bend the trunk backwards, when it is required to counterbalance the influence of any weight at the front of the body, as, for instance, when a heavy weight is suspended from the neck, or when there is any great abdominal development, as in pregnant women or in abdominal dropsy; the peculiar gait under such circumstances depending upon the spine being drawn backwards, by the counterbalancing action of the Erector spinas muscles. The continuation of these muscles upwards to the neck and head steady and preserve the upright position of these several parts. If the Sacro- lumbalis and Longissimus dorsi of one side act, they serve to draw down the chest and spine to the corresponding side. The Musculus accessorius, taking its fixed ]:)oint from the cervical vertebrae, elevates those ribs to which it is attached. The Multifidus spinse acts successively upon the different segments of the spine; thus, the lateral parts of the sacrum furnish a fixed point from which the fasciculi of this muscle act upon the lumbar region; these then become the fixed points for the fasciculi moving the dorsal region, and so on throughout the entire length of the spine. It is by the successive contraction and relaxation of the separate fasciculi of this and other muscles, that the spine preserves the erect posture with- out the fatigue that woiild necessarily have existed had this movement been accomplished by the action of a single muscle. The Multifidus spinae, besides preserving the erect position of the spine, serves to rotate it, so that the front of the trunk is turned to the side opposite to that from which the muscle acts, this muscle being assisted in its action by the Obliquus externus abdominis. The Complexi, the analogues of the Multifidus spinte in tlie neck, draw the head directly backwards; if one muscle acts, it draws the head to one side, and rotates it so that the face is turned to the opposite side. The Eectus capitis posticus minor and the Superior oblique draw the head backwards; and the latter, from the obliquity in the direction of its fibres, may turn the face to the opposite side. The Eectus capitis posticus major and the Obliquus inferior rotate the atlas, and, with it, the cranium round the odontoid process, and turn the face to the same side.