OSTEOLOGY. they increase in size as age advances. They are partially closed, in front and below, by tAvo thin curved plates of bone, the sphenoidal turbinated bones, leaving a round opening at their upper parts, by which they communicate with the upper and back part of the nose, and occasionally with the posterior ethmoidal cells. The lateral margins of this surface present a serrated edge, which articu- lates with the OS planum of the ethmoid, completing the posterior ethmoidal cells; the lower margin, also roiigh and serrated, articulates with the orbital process of the palate bone; and the iipper margin with the orbital plate of the frontal bone. The inferior surface presents, in the middle line, a triangular spine, the rostrum, which is continuous Avith the vertical plate on the anterior surface, and is received into a deep fissure between the alae of the vomer. On each side may be seen a projecting lamina of bone, which runs horizontally inwards from near the base of the pterygoid process: these plates, termed the vaginal processes, articulate with the edges of the vomer. Close to the root of the pterygoid process is a groove, formed into a complete canal when articu.lated with the sphenoidal process of the palate bone; it is called the pterygo-palatine canal, and transmits the pterygo- palatine vessels and pharyngeal nerve. The Greater Wings are two strong processes of bone, which arise at the sides of the body, and are curved in a direction upwards, outwards, and backwards; being prolonged behind into a sharp-pointed extremity, the spinous process of the sphenoid. Each Aving presents three surfaces and a circumference. The sup)erior or cerebral surface forms part of the middle fossa of the skull; it is deeply concave, and presents eminences and depressions for the convolutions of the brain. At its anterior and internal part is seen a circular aperture, the foramen rotundum, for the transmission of the second division of the fifth nerve. Behind and external to this, is a large oval foramen, the foramen ovale, for the transmission of the third division of the fifth, the small meningeal artery, and the small petrosal nerve. At the inner side of the foramen ovale, a small aperture may occasionally be seen opposite the root of the pterygoid process; it is the foramen Vesalii. transmitting a small vein. Lastly, in the apex of the spine of the sphenoid is a short canal, sometimes double, the foramen spinosum; it transmits the middle meningeal artery. The external surface is convex, and divided by a transverse ridge, the pterygoid ridge, into tAvo portions. The superior or larger, convex from above doAvnwards, concave from before backwards, enters into the formation of the temporal fossa, and attaches part of the Temporal muscle. The inferior portion, smaller in size and concave, enters into the formation of the zygomatic fossa, and affords attachment to the External pterygoid muscle. It presents, at its posterior part, a sharp-pointed eminence of bone, the spinous process, to which are connected the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw, and the Laxator tympani mviscle. The pterygoid ridge, dividing the temporal and zygomatic portions, gives attachment to part of the External pterygoid muscle. At its inner extremity is a triangular spine of bone, Avhich serves to increase the extent of origin of this muscle. The anterior or orbital surface, smooth and quadrilateral in form, assists in forming the outer Avail of the orbit. It is bounded above by a serrated edge, for articulation with the frontal bone; below, by a rounded border, Avhich enters into the formation of the spheno-maxillary fissure; internally, it enters into the formation of the sphenoidal fissure; Avhilst externally it presents a serrated margin, for articulation Avith the malar bone. At the upper part of the inner border is a notch, for the transmission of a branch of the ophthalmic artery; and at its loAver part a small pointed spine of bone, Avhich serves for the attachment of part of the loAver head of the External rectus muscle. One or two small foramina may occasionally be seen, for the passage of arteries; they are called the external orbitar foramina. Circumference: from the body of the sphenoid to the spine, commencing from behind, the outer half of this margin is serrated, for articula- tion with the petrous portion of the temporal bone; Avhilst the inner half forms the anterior boundary of the foramen lacerum medium, and presents the posterior aperture of the Yidian canal. In front of the spine, the circumference of the