G54 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. goid muscles. Its outer surface, slightly lobulated, is covered by the integument and fascia, and lias one or two lymphatic glands resting on it. Its inner suiface extends deeply into the neck, by means of two large processes, one of which dips behind the styloid process, and projects beneath the mastoid process and the Sterno-mastoid muscle; the other is situated in front of the styloid process, and passes into the back part of the glenoid fossa, behind the articulation of the lower jaw. Imbedded in its substance is the external carotid, which ascends behind the ramus of the jaw ; the posterior auricular artery emerges from it behind ; the temporal artery above; the transverse facial in front; and the internal maxillary winds through it inwards, behind the neck of the jaw. Superficial to the external carotid is the trunk formed by the union of the temporal and internal maxillary veins; a branch, connecting it with the internal jugular, also traversing the gland. It is traversed, from before backwards, by the facial nerve and its branches, which emerge at its anterior border; the great auricular nerve pierces the gland to join the facial, and the temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve lies above the upper part of the gland. The internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein lie close to its deep surface. Steno's duct, the duct of the parotid gland, is about two inches and a half in length. It commences upon the inner surface of the cheek by a small orifice, Fig. 330.—The Salivary Gland, opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw; running obliquely for a short distance beneath the mucous membrane, it pierces the Buccinator muscle, and crosses the Masseter to the anterior border of the gland, in the substance of which it subdivides into numerous branches. The direction of the duct corre- sponds to a line drawn across the face about a finger's breadth below the zygoma, from the lower part of the concha to midway between the free margin of the upper lip and the ala of the nose. While crossing the Masseter, it receives the duct of a small detached portion of the gland, soda parotidis, which occasionally exists as a separate lobe, just beneath the zygomatic arch. The parotid duct is