LYMPHATICS. 488 tlie axilla, wliicli receive the lympliatics from tlie integument of the back. Two or three subclavian lymphatic glands arejolaced immediately beneath the clavicle; it is through these that the axillary and deep cervical glands communicate with each other. One is figured by Mascagni near the umbilicus. In malignant diseases, tumors, or other affections implicating the upper part of the back and shoulder, the front of the chest and mamma, the upper part of the front and side of the abdomen, or the hand, forearm, and arm, the axillary glands are usually found enlarged. The superficial lymphatics of the upper extremity arise from the skin of the hand, and run along the sides of the fingers chiefly on the dorsal surface of the hand; they then pass up the forearm, and subdivide into two sets, which take the course of the subcutaneous veins. Those from the inner border of the hand accom- pany the ulnar veins along the inner side of the forearm to the bend of the elbow, where they join with some lymphatics from the outer side of the forearm; they then follow the course of the basilic vein, communicate with the glands immediately above the elbow, and terminate in the axillary glands, joining with the deep lymphatics. The superficial lymphatics from the outer and back part of the hand accompany the radial veins to the bend of the elbow, being less nvimerous than the preceding. Here the greater number join the basilic group ; the rest ascend with the cephalic vein on the oiiter side of the arm, some crossing obliquely the xipper part of the Biceps to terminate in the axillary glands, whilst one or two accompany the cephalic vein in the cellular interval between the Pectoralis major and Deltoid, and enter the subclavian lymphatic glands. The deep lymphatics of the upper extremity accompany the deep bloodvessels. In the forearm, they consist of three sets, corresponding Avith the radial, ulnar, and interosseous arteries; they pass through the glands occasionally found in the course of these vessels, and commimicate at intervals with the superficial lymphatics. In their ascent upwards, some of them pas^ through the glands which lie upon the brachial artery; they then enter the axillary and subclavian glands, and at the root of the neck terminate, on the left side in the thoracic duct, and on the right side in the right lymphatic duct. Lymphatics of the Lower Exteemity. The Lymphatic Glands of the lower extremity may be subdivided into two sets, superficial and deep. The superficial lymphatic glands are confined to the inguinal region. The superficial inguinal glands, placed immediately beneath the integument, are of large size, and vary from eight to ten in number. They are divisible into two groups; an upper, disposed irregularly along Poupart's ligament, receiving the l3rmphatic vessels from the integument of the scrotum, penis, parietes of the abdomen, perineum, and gluteal regions; and an inferior group, which surroimds the saphenous opening in the fascia lata, a few being sometimes continued along the saphenous vein to a variable extent. The latter receive the superficial lymphatic vessels from the lower extremity. These glands frequently become enlarged in diseases implicating the parts from which their efferent lymphatics originate. Thus, in malignant or syphilitic affections of the prepuce and penis, the labia majora in the female, in cancer scroti, in abscess in the perineum, or in any other disease affecting the integument and superficial structures in these parts, or the sub-umbilical part of the abdomen or gluteal region, the upper chain of glands is almost invariably enlarged, the lower chain being implicated in diseases affecting the lower limb. The deep lymphatic glands are the anterior tibial, popliteal, deep inguinal, gluteal, and ischiatic. The anterior tibial gland is not constant in its existence. It is generally found by the side of the anterior tibial artery, upon the interosseous membrane at the tipper part of the leg. Occasionally, two glands are found in this situation.