ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 648 9 Stkuctuee op the Teeth, Fig. 322.—Vertical Section of a Molar Tooth. ■Neck Fig. 323.—Vertical Section of a Bicu^id Tooth. Magnified. Structure. On making a vertical section of a tooth (fig. 322), a hollow cavity will be found in the interior. This cavity is situated at the base of the crown, and is continuous with a canal which traverses the centre of each fang, and opens by a minute orifice at its extremity. The shape of the cavity corresponds somewhat with that of the tooth: it forms what is called the pulp cavity, and con- tains a soft, highly vascular, and sensitive substance, the dental pulp. The pulp is richly supplied with vessels and nerves, which enter the cavity through the small aperture at the point of each fang. The solid portion of the tooth consists of three distinct structures, viz., ivory (tooth-bone or dentine), which forms the larger portion of the tooth; enamel, which covers the exposed part or crown; and the cortical substance or cement {crusta petrosa), which is disposed as a thin layer on the surface of the fang. The IvoEY or dentine (fig. 323) forms the principal mass of a tooth; in its central part is the cavity inclosing the pulp. It is a modification of the osseous tisue, from which it differs, however, in structure and chemical composition. On. examination with the microscope, it is seen to consist of a number of minute wavy and branching tubes, having distinct parietes. They are called the dental tubuli, and are imbedded in a dense homogeneous sub- stance, the intertuhular tissue. The dental tubuli are placed parallel with one ano- ther, and open at their inner ends into the pulp cavity. They pursue a wavy and undulating course towards the periphery. The direction of these tubes varies; they are vertical in the upper portion of the crown, oblique in the neck and upper part of the root, and towards the lower part of the root they are inclined downwards. The tubuli, at their commencement, are about 4 gVo o^" i^^h in diameter; in their course they divide and subdivide dichotomously, so as to give to the cut surface of the dentine a striated appearance. From the sides of the tubes, especially in the fang, ramifications of extreme minuteness are given oSj which join together in loops in the inter- tubular substance, or terminate in small dilatations, from which branches are given off. Near the periphery of the dentine, the finer ramifications of the tubu.li ter- minate in a somewhat similar manner. In the fang, these ramifications occasionally pass into the crusta petrosa. The dental tubuli have comparatively thick walls, and contain, according to Mr. Tomes, slender cylindrical prolongations of the pulp-tissue. The intertubular substance is translucent, finel}^ granular, and contains the chief part of the earthy matter of the dentine. After the earthy matter has been removed, by steeping a tooth in weak acid, the animal basis remaining is described by Henle as consisting of bundles of pale, granular, flattened fibres, running parallel with the tubes; but by Mr. ISTasmyth as consisting of a mass of" brick- shaped cells surrounding the tubules. By Czermak and Mr. Salter it is supposed to consist of laminse which run parallel with the pulp cavity, across the direction of the tubes. Chemical Composition. According to Berzelius and Bibra, dentine consists of 28 parts of animal, and 72 of earthy matter. The animal matter is resolvable by Fa,ng