SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 596 rior part of tlie cavernous plexus; it accompanies the nasal nerve, or continues forwards as a separate branch. The terminal filaments from the carotid and cavernous plexuses are prolonged along the internal carotid, forming plexuses which entwine round the cerebral and ophthalmic arteries; along the former vessel they may be traced on to the pia mater; along the latter, into the orbit, where they accompany each of the subdivisions of the vessel, a separate plexus passing with the arteria centralis retinae into the interior of the eyeball. Caediac Neeves. The cardiac nerves are three in number on each side;—superior, middle, and inferior, one being derived from each of the cervical ganglia. The Superior Cardiac nerve (nervus superficialis cordis) arises by two or more branches from the superior cervical ganglion, and occasionally receives a filament from the cord of communication between the first and second cervical ganglia. It runs down the neck behind the common carotid artery, lying upon the Longus colli muscle, and crosses in front of the inferior thyroid artery, and the recurrent laryngeal nerve. The right superior cardiac nerve, at the root of the neck, passes either in front of or behind the subclavian artery, and along the arteria innominata, to the back part of the arch of the aorta, to the deep cardiac plexus. This nerve, in its course, is connected with other branches of the sympathetic; about the middle of the neck it receives filaments from the external laryngeal nerve; lower down, one or two twigs from the pneumogastric, and, as it enters the thorax, it joins with the recurrent laryngeal. Filaments from this nerve accompany the inferior thyroid artery to the thyroid gland. The left superior caj-diac nerve runs by the side of the left carotid artery, and in front of the arch of the aorta, to the superficial cardiac plexus; it occasionally passes behind this vessel, and terminates in the deep cardiac plexus. The Middle Cardiac nerve (nervus cardiacus magnus), the largest of the three, arises from the middle cervical ganglion, or from the interganglionic cord between the middle and inferior ganglia. On the right side, it descends behind the common carotid artery; and, at the root of the neck, passes either in front of or behind the subclavian artery; it then descends on the trachea, receives a few filaments from the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and joins the deep cardiac plexus. In the neck, it communicates with the superior cardiac and recurrent laryngeal nerves. On the left side, the middle cardiac nerve enters the chest between the left carotid and subclavian arteries, and joins the left side of the deep cardiac plexus. The Inferior Cardiac nerve (nervus cardiacus minor) arises from the inferior cervical or first thoracic ganglion. It passes down behind the subclavian artery, and along the front of the trachea, to join the deep cardiac plexus. It communi- cates freely behind the subclavian artery with the recurrent laryngeal and middle cardiac nerves. Caediac and Coeonaey Plexuses. The Great or Deep Cardiac Plexus {plexus magnus profundus—Scarpa) is situated in front of the trachea at its bifurcation, above the point of division of the pulmonary artery, and behind the arch of the aorta. It is formed by the cardiac nerves derived .from the cervical ganglia of the sympathetic, and the cardiac branches of the recurrent laryngeal and pneumogastric. The only cardiac nerves which do not enter into the formation of this plexus are the left superior cardiac nerve, and the left inferior cardiac branch from the pneumogastric. The branches derived from the great cardiac plexus form the posterior coronary plexus, and part of the anterior coronary plexus; whilst a few filaments proceed to the pul- monary plexuses, and to the auricles of the heart. The branches from the right side of this plexus pass some in front of, and others i