122 OSTEOLOGY. The posterior or subclavian border separates the posterior from the inferior surface, and extends from the conoid tubercle to the rhomboid depression. It forms the posterior boundary of the groove for the Subclavius muscle, and gives attachment to the fascia which incloses it. The anterior surface is included between the superior and anterior borders. It is directed forwards and a little upwards at the sternal end, outwards and still more upwards at the acromial extremity, where it becomes continuous with the upper surface of the flat portion. Externally, it is smooth, convex, nearly sub- cutaneous, being covered only by the Platysma; but, corresponding to the inner half of the bone, it is divided by a more or less prominent line into two parts: an anterior portion, elliptical in form, rough, and slightly convex, for the attachment of the Pectoralis major; and an upper part, which is rough behind, for the attachment of the Sterno-cleido-mastoid. Between the two muscular impressions is a small subcutaneous interval. Fig. 82.—Left Clavicle. Anterior Surface. The posterior or cervical surface is smooth, flat, directed vertically, and looks backwards towards the root of the neck. It is limited, above, by the superior border; below, by the subclavian border; internally, by the rhargin of the sternal extremity; externally, it is continuous with the posterior border of the flat portion. It is concave from within outwards, and is in relation, by its lower part, with the suprascapular vessels. It gives attachment, near the sternal extremity, to part of the Sterno-hyoid muscle; and presents, at or near the middle, a foramen, directed obliquely outwards, which transmits the chief nutrient artery of the bone. Some- times, there are two foramina on the posterior surface; or one on the posterior, the other on the inferior surface. The inferior or subclavian surface is bounded, in front, by the anterior border; behind, by the subclavian border. It is narrow internally, but gradually increases in width externally, and is continuous with the under surface of the flat portion. Commencing at the sternal extremity may be seen a small facet for articulation with the cartilage of the first rib. This is continuous with the articular surface at the sternal end of the bone. External to this, is a broad rough impression, the rhomboid, rather more than an inch in length, for the attachment of the costo- clavicular or rhomboid ligament. The remaining part of this surface is occupied by a longitudinal groove, the subclavian groove, broad and smooth externally,