621 RETINA. yellow spot, of Sommering; having a central depression at its summit, the fovea centralis. The retina in the situation of the fovea centralis is exceedingly thin, so much so, that the dark color of the choroid is distinctly seen through it; so that it presents more the appearance of a foramen, and hence the name " foramen of Sommering" at first given to it. It exists only in man, the quadrumana, and some saurian reptiles. Its use is unknown. About of an inch to the inner side of the yellow spot is the point of entrance of the optic nerve; the arteria centralis retinse piercing its centre. This is the only part of the surface of the retina from which the power of vision is absent. pitr. 307.—The Arteria Centralis Retinae, Yellow Spot, etc., the Anterior Half of the Eyeball being removed, (Enlarged.) Structure. The retina is composed of three laj'^ers, together with bloodvessels:— External or columnar layer (Jacob's membrane). Middle or granular layer. Internal or nervous layer. The bloodvessels do not form a distinct layer; they ramify in the substance of the internal layer. The external or JacoVs membrane is exceedingly thin, and can be detached from the external surface of the retina by the handle of the scalpel, in the form of a flocculent film. It is thicker behind than in front, and consists of rod-like bodies of two kinds:—1. Columnar rods, solid, nearly of uniform size, and arranged per- pendicularly to the surface. 2. Bulbous particles or cones, which are interspersed at regular intervals among the former; these are conical or flask-shaped, their broad ends resting upon the granular layer, the narrow-pointed extremity being turned towards the choroid ; they are not solid, like the columnar rods, but consist of an external membrane with fluid contents. By their deep ends, both kinds are joined to the fibres of Miiller. The middle or granular layer forms about one-third of the entire thickness of the retina. It consists of two laminae of rounded or oval nuclear particles, separated from each other by an intermediate layer, which is transparent, finely fibrillated, and contains no bloodvessels. The outermost layer is the thickest, and its con- stituent particles are globular. The innermost layer is the thinnest; its component particles are flattened, looking like pieces of money seen edgeways; hence it has been called by Bowman, the nummular layer. The internal or nervous layer is a thin semi-transparent membrane, consisting of an expansion of the terminal fibres of the optic nerve and nerve cells. The nerve fibres are collected into bundles, which radiate from the point at which the trunk of the optic nerve terminates. As they proceed in a tolerably straight