442 ARTERIES. T\i.Q superficial external pudic (superior) arises from the inner side of the femoral artery, close to the preceding vessels, and, after piercing the fascia lata at the saphenous opening, passes inwards, across the spermatic cord, to be distributed to the integument on the lower part of the abdomen, and of the penis and scrotum in the male, and to the labia in the female, anastomosing with branches of the internal pudic. The deep external pudic (inferior), more deeply seated than the preceding, passes inwards on the Pectineus muscle, covered by the fascia lata, which it pierces opposite the ramus of the pubes, its branches being distributed, in the male, to the integument of the scrotum and perinseum, and in the female to the labium, anastomosing with branches of the superficial perineal artery. The Peofunda Femoris or Deep Femoral Artery nearly eqvials the size of the superficial fenioral. It arises from the outer and back part of the femoral artery, from one to two inches below Poupart's ligament. It at first lies on the outer side of the superficial femoral, and then passes beneath it and the femoral vein to the inner side of the femur, and terminates at the lower third of the thigh in a small branch, which pierces the Adductor magnus, to be distributed to the Flexor muscles, on the back of the thigh, anastomosing with branches of the popliteal and inferior perforating arteries. Relations. Behind, it lies first upon the Iliacus, and then on the Adductor brevis and Adductor magnus muscles. In front, it is separated from the femoral artery, above, by the femoral and profunda veins, and below by the Adductor longus. On its outer side, the insertion of the Vastus internus separates it from the femur. Plan of the Eelations of the Profunda Artery. In front. Femoral and profunda veins. ^ Adductor longus. Outer side. Vastus internus Behind. Iliacus. Adductor brevis. Adductor magnus. The External Circumflex Artery supplies the muscles on the front of the thigh. It arises from the outer side of the profunda, passes horizontally outwards, between the divisions of the anterior crural nerve, and beneath the Sartorius and Rectus muscles, and divides into three sets of branches, ascending, transverse, and descending. ♦ The ascending branches pass upwards, beneath the Tensor vaginae femoris ' muscle, to the outer side of the hip, anastomosing with the terminal branches of the gluteal and circumflex iliac arteries. The descending branches, three or four in number, pass downwards, beneath the Rectus, upon the Vasti muscles, to which they are distributed, one or two passing beneath the Vastus externus as far as the knee, anastomosing with the superior articular branches of the popliteal artery. The transverse branches, the smallest and least numerous, pass outwards over the Crureus, pierce the Vastus externus, and wind round the femur to its back part, just below the great trochanter, anastomosing at the back of the thigh with the internal circumflex, sciatic, and superior perforating arteries. The Internal Circumflex Artery, smaller than the external, arises from the inner ind back part of the profunda, and winds round the inner side of the femur,