577 INTERCOSTAL. ttiey lie between the pleura and tlie External intercostal muscle, but are soon placed between the two planes of Intercostal muscles as far as the costal car- tilages, where they lie between the pleura and the Internal intercostal muscles. Near the sternum, they cross the internal mammary artery, and Triangularis sterni, pierce the Internal intercostal and Pectoral is major muscles, and supply the integument of the mamma and front of the chest, forming the anterior cutaneous nerves of the thorax; that from the second nerve becoming joined with the cla- vicular nerve. Branches. Numerous slender muscular filaments supply the Intercostal and Triangularis sterni muscles. Some of these branches, at the front of the chest, cross the costal cartilages from one to another intercostal space. Lateral cutaneous nerves. These are derived from the intercostal nerves, midway between the vertebrae and sternum, pierce the External intercostal and Serratiis magnus muscles, and divide into two branches, anterior and posterior. The anterior branches are reflected forwards to the side and forepart of the chest, supplying the integument of the chest and mamma, and the upper digitations of the External oblique. The posterior branches are reflected backwards, to supply the integument over the scapula and Latissimus dorsi. The first intercostal nerve has no lateral cutaneous branch. The lateral cutaneous branch of the second intercostal nerve is of large size, and named, from its origin and distribution, the intercosto-humeral nerve. It pierces the External intercostal muscle, crosses the axilla to the inner side of the arm, and joins with a filament from the nerve of Wrisberg. It then pierces the fascia, and supplies the skin of the upper half of the inner and back part of the arm, communicating with the internal cutaneous branch of the masculo-spiral nerve. The size of this nerve is in inverse proportion to the size of the other cutaneous nerves, especially the nerve of Wrisberg. A second intercosto-humeral nerve is frequently given off from the third intercostal. It supplies filaments to the arm-pit and inner side of the arm. The Lower Intercostal Nerves (excepting the last) have the same arrangement as the upper ones as far as the anterior extremities of the intercostal spaces, where they pass behind the costal cartilages, and between the Internal oblique and Trans- versalis muscles, to the sheath of the Rectus, which they perforate. They supply the Eectus muscle, and terminate in branches Avhich become subcutaneous near the linea alba (anterior cutaneous nerves of the abdomen), supplying the integument in front of the abdomen, being directed outwards to the lateral cutaneous nerves. The lower intercostal nerves supply the Intercostal and abdominal muscles, and, about the middle of their course, give off lateral cutaneous branches, which pierce the External intercostal and External oblique muscles, and are distributed to the integument of the abdomen, the anterior branches passing nearly as far forwards as the margin of the Rectus; the posterior branches passing to supply the skin over the Latissimus dorsi, where they join the dorsal cutaneous nerves. Peculiar Doesal Nerves. First dorsal nerve. Its roots of origin are similar to those of a cervical nerve. Its iMsterior or dorsal branch resembles, in its mode of distribution, the dorsal branches of the cervical nerves. Its anterior branch enters almost wholly into the formation of the brachial plexus, giving oft* before it leaves the thorax, a small intercostal branch, which runs along the first intercostal space, and terminates on the front of the chest, by forming the first anterior cutaneous nerve of the thorax. The first intercostal nerve gives off no lateral cuta,neous branch. The last dorsal is larger than the other dorsal nerves. Its anterior branch runs along the lower border of the last rib in front of the Quadratus lumborum, perforates the aponeurosis of the Transversalis, and passes forwards between it and the Internal oblique, to be distributed in the same manner as the preceding 37