408 ARTERIES. Varieties -in Muscular Relations.^ The brachial artery is occasionally concealed, in some part of its course, by muscular or tendinous slips derived from various sources. In the upper third of the arm, the brachial vessels and median nerve have been seen concealed to the extent of three inches by a muscular layer of considerable thickness, derived from the Coraco-brachialis, vi^hich passed round to the inner side of the vessel, and joined the internal head of the Triceps. In the lower half of the arm it is occasionally concealed by a broad thin head to the Biceps muscle (see p. 303). A narrow fleshy slip from the Biceps has been seen to cross the artery, concealing it for an inch and a half, its tendon ending- in the aponeurosis covering the Pronator teres. A muscular and tendinous slip has been seen to arise from the external bicipital ridge by a long tendon, cross obliquely behind the long tendon of the Biceps, end in a fleshy belly, which appears on the inner side of the arm between the Biceps and Coraco-brachialis, passes down along the inner edge of the former, and crosses the artery very obliquely, so as to lie in front of it for three inches, and, finally, end in a narrow flattened tendon, which is inserted into the aponeurosis over the Pronator teres. A tendinous slip, arising from the deep part of the tendon of the Pectoralis major, has been seen to cross the artery obliquely at or below the Coraco-brachialis, and join the intermuscular septum above the inner condyle. The Brachialis anticus not unfrequently projects at the outer side of the artery, occasionally overlaps it, sending inwards, across the artery, an aponeurosis which binds the vessel down upon the Brachialis' anticus. Sometimes a fleshy slip from the muscle covers the vessel, in one case, to the extent of three inches. In some cases of high origin of the Pronator radii teres, an aponeurosis extends from it to join the Brachialis anticus external to the artery; a kind of arch being thus formed, under which the principal artery and median nerve pass, so as to* be concealed for half an inch above the transverse level of the condyle. Surgical Anatomy. Compression of the brachial artery is required in cases of amputation of the arm or forearm, in resection of the elbow-joint, and the removal of tumors ; and it will be observed, that it may be effected in almost any part of its course ; if pressure is made in the upper part of the limb it should be directed from within outwards, and if in the lower part from before backwards, as the artery lies on the inner side of the humerus above, and in front of it below. The most favorable situation is either above or below the insertion of the Coraco-brachialis. The application of a ligature to the brachial artery may be required in cases of wounds of the vessel, or in wounds of the palmar arch, where compression of the radial and ulnar arteries fails to arrest the hemorrhage. It is also necessary in cases of aneurism of the brachial, the radial, ulnar, or interosseous arteries.; and it may be secured in any part of its course. The chief guides in determining its position are the surface-markings produced by the inner margin of the Coraco- brachialis and Biceps, the known course of the vessel, and its pulsation, which should be care- fully felt for before any operation is performed, as the vessel occasionally deviates from its usual position in the arm. In whatever situation the operation is perfoi-med, great care is necessary on account of the extreme thinness of the parts covering the artery, and the intimate connection which the vessel has throughout its whole course with important nerves and veins. Sometimes a thin layer of muscular fibre is met with concealing the artery; if such is the case, it must be divided across, in order to expose the vessel. In the tqiper third of the arm the artery maybe exposed in the following manner:—The patient being placed horizontally upon a table, the affected limb should be raised from the side, and the hand supinated. An incision about two inches in length should be made on the ulnar side of the Coraco-brachialis muscle, and the subjacent fascia cautiously divided so as to avoid wounding the internal cutaneous nerve or basilic vein, which sometimes run on the surface of the artery as high as the axilla. The fascia having been divided, it should be remembered, that the ulnar and internal cutaneous nerves lie on the inner side of the artery, the median on the outer side, the latter nerve being occasionally superficial to the artery in this situation, and that the vense comites are also in relation with the vessel, one on either side. These being carefully separated, the aneurism needle should be passed round the artery from the ulnar to the radial side. If two arteries arc present in the arm in consequence of a high division, they ai'e usually placed side by side; and if they are exposed in an operation, the surgeon should endeavor to ascertain, by alternately pressing on one or the other vessel, which of the two communicates with the wound or aneurism, when a ligature may be applied accordingly; or if pulsation or hemorrhage ceases only when both vessels are compressed, both vessels may be tied, as it may be concluded that the two communicate above the seat of disease or are i-eunited. It should also be remembered, that two arteries may be present in the arm in a case of high division, and that one of these may be found along the inner intermuscular septum, in a line towards the inner condyle of the humerus, or in its usual position, but deeply placed beneath the common trunk: a knowledge of these facts will at once suggest the precautions necessary in every case, and indicate the necessary measures to be adopted when met with. In the middle of the arm the brachial artery may be exposed by making an incision along the inner margin of the Biceps muscle. The forearm being bent so as to relax the muscle, it should be drawn slightly aside, and the fascia being carefully divided, the median nerve will be exposed lying upon the artery, sometimes beneath; this being drawn inwards and the muscle outwards, ' Struther's Anatomical and Physiological Observations.