CERYICAL GANGLIA. 595 offsets whicTi pass to the otic ganglion and to tlie intumescentia gangliformis of the facial nerve. The Middle Cervical Ganglion (thyroid ganglion) is the smallest of the three cervical ganglia, and is occasionally altogether wanting. It is placed opposite the fifth cervical vertebra, usually upon, or close to, the inferior thyroid artery; hence the name " thyroid ganglion," assigned to it by Haller. Its superior branches ascend to communicate with the superior cervical ganglion. Its inferior hranches descend to communicate with the inferior cervical ganglion. Its external hranches pass outwards to join the fifth and sixth spinal nerves. These branches are not constantly found. Its internal branches are the thyroid and the middle cardiac nerve. The thyroid branches are small filaments, which accompany the inferior thyroid artery to the thj^roid gland; they communicate, on the artery, with the superior cardiac nerve, and, in the gland, with branches from the recurrent and external laryngeal nerves. The middle cardiac nerve is described with the other cardiac nerves. The Inferior Cervical Ganglion is situated between the base of the trans- verse process of the last cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib, on the inner side of the superior intercostal artery. Its form is irregular; it is larger in size than the preceding, and frequently joined with the first thoracic ganglion. Its superior b-anches communicate with the middle cervical ganglion. Its inferior branches descend, some in front of, others behind, the subclavian artery, to join the first thoracic ganglion. The most important of these branches constitutes the inferior cardiac nerve, to be presently described. The external branches consist of several filaments, some of which communicate with the seventh and eighth spinal nerves; others accompany the vertebral artery along the vertebral canal, forming a plexus round this vessel, supplying it with filaments, and communicating Avith the cervical spinal nerves as high as the fourth. Carotid and Cavernous Plexuses. The Carotid Plexus is situated on the outer side of the internal carotid. Fila. ments from this plexus occasionally form a small gangliform swelling on the under surface of the artery, which is called the carotid ganglion. The carotid plexus communicates with the Casserian ganglion, with the sixth nerve, and spheno> palatine ganglion, and distributes filaments to the wall of the carotid artery, and to the dura mater (Valentin). The communicating branches with the sixth nerve consist of one or two fila- ments, which join that nerve as it lies upon the outer side of the internal carotid.. Other filaments are also connected with the Casserian ganglion. The communica- tion with the spheno-palatine ganglion is effected by the carotid portion of the Vidian nerve, which passes forwards, through the cartilaginous substance filling in the foramen lacerum medium, along the pterygoid canal, to the spheno-palatine ganglion. In this canal it joins the petrosal branch of the Vidian. The Cavernous Plexus is situated below, and to the inner side of, that part of the internal carotid, which is placed by the side of the sella Turcica, in the cavernoiis sinus, and is formed chiefly by the internal division of the ascending branch from the superior cervical ganglion. It communicates with the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth nerves, and with the ophthalmic ganglion, and distributes filaments to the wall of the internal carotid. The branch of communication with the third nerve joins it at its point of division; the branch to the fourth nerve joins it as it lies on the outer wall of the ca\ ernous sinus; other filaments are connected with the under surface of the trunk of the ophthalmic nerve; and a second filament of communication joins the sixth nerve. The filament of connection with the ophthalmic ganglion arises from the ante-