116 OSTEOLOGY. Fig. 75.—A Central Rib of Right Side, luuer Surface. the larger; the second piece has seldom more than one; the third, fourth, and fifth pieces are often formed from two centres placed laterally, the irregular union of Avhich will serve to explain the occasional occurrence of the sternal foramen (fig. 74), or of the vertical fissure which gome- times intersects this part of the hone. Union of the various centres commences from below, and proceeds upwards, taking place in the following order (fig. 72). The fifth piece is joined to the fourth soon after puberty; the fourth to the third, between the twentieth and twenty-fifth years; the third to the second, between the thirty-fifth and fortieth years; the second is rarely joined to the first except in very advanced age. Articulations. With the clavicles, and seven costal cartilages on each side. Attachment of Muscles. The Pectora- lis major, Sterno-cleido-mastoid, Sterno- hyoid, Sterno-thyroid, Triangularis sterni, aponeurosis of the Obliquus externus, Obliquus internus, and Transversalis muscles, Eectus and Diaphragm. The Ribs. The Ribs are elastic arches of bone, •which form the chief part of the thoracic walls. They are twelve in number on each side; but this number may be increased by the development of a cervical or lumbar rib, or may be diminished to eleven. The first seven are connected behind with the spine, and in front with the sternum through the intervention of the costal cartilages; they are called vertebro- sternal or true ribs. The remaining five are false ribs; of these the first three, being connected behind with the spine, and in front with the costal cartilages, are called the vertebro-costal ribs: the last two are connected with the vertebrae only, being free at their anterior ex- tremities ; they are termed vertebral or floating ribs. The ribs vary in their di- rection, the upper ones being placed nearly at right angles with the spine; the lower' ones are placed obliquely, so that the anterior extremity is lower than the posterior. The extent of obliquity reaches its maximum at the ninth rib, gradually decreasing from that point towards the twelfth. The ribs are situated one be- neath the other in such a manner that spaces are left between them; these are called intercostal spaces. Their length corresponds to the length of the ribs;