34 OSTEOLOGY. The organic constituent of bone forms about one-third, or 33.3 per cent.; the inorganic matter, two-thirds, or 66.7 per cent.: as is seen in the subjoined analysis by Berzelius:— Organic Matter, Gelatine and Bloodvessels . . 33.30 / Phosphate of Lime .... 51.04 Inorganic \ Carbonate of Lime .... 11.30 or ( Fluoride of Calcium . . . 2.00 Earthy Matter, I Phosphate of Magnesia . . . 1.16 \ Soda and Chloride of Sodium . . 1.20 100.00 Some chemists add to this about one per cent, of fat. The relative proportions of the two constituents of bone are found to differ in different bones of the skeleton, as shown by Dr. Owen Eees. Thus, the bones of the head, and the long bones of the extremities, contain more earthy matter than those of the trunk; and those of the upper extremity somewhat more than the corresponding bones of the lower extremity. The humerus contains more earthy matter than the bones of the forearm; and the femur more than the tibia and fibula. The vertebrae, ribs, and clavicle contain nearly the same proportion of earthy matter. The metacarpal and metatarsal bones contain about the same proportion as those of the trunk. Much difference exists in the analyses given by chemists as to the proportion between the two constituents of bone at different periods of life. According to Schreger, and others, there is considerable increase in the earthy constituents of the bones with advancing years. Dr. Eees states that this is especially marked in the long bones, and the bones of the head, which, in the foetus, do not contain the excess of earthy matter found in those of the adult. But the bones of the trunk in the foetus, according to this analyst, contain as much earthy matter as those of the adult. On the other hand, the analyses of Stark and Von Bibra show that the proportions of animal and earthy matter are almost precisely the same at different periods of life. According to the analyses of Von Bibra, Valentin, and Dr. Eees, the compact substance contains more earthy matter than the cancellous. The comparative analysis of the same bones in both sexes shows no essential difference between them. There are facts of some practical interest, bearing upon the difference which seems to exist in the amount of the two constituents of bone at different periods of life. Thus, in the child, where the animal matter predominates, it is not uncommon to find, after an injury to the bones, that they become bent or only partially broken, from the large amount of flexible animal matter which they contain. Again, also in aged people, where the bones contain a large proportion of earthy matter, the animal matter at the same time being deficient in quantity and quality, the bones are more brittle, their elasticity is destroyed, and, hence, fracture takes place more readily. Some of the diseases, also, to which bones are liable, mainly depend on the disproportion between the two constituents of bone. Thus, in the disease called rickets, so common in the children of scrofulous parents, the bones become bent and curved, either from the superincumbent weight of the body, or under the action of certain muscles. This depends upon some deficiency of the nutritive system, by which bone becomes minus its normal proportion of earthy matter, whilst the animal matter is of unhealthy quality. In the vertebra of a rickety subject. Dr. Bostock found in 100 parts 79.75 animal, and 20.25 earthy matter. Form of Bones. The various mechanical purposes for which bones are employed in the animal economy require them to be of very different forms. All the scien- tific principles of Architecture and Dynamics are more or less exemplified in the construction of this part of the human body. The power of the arch in resisting