T09 MTSCLES OF THE LARYNX. 1 The Crico-arytsenoideus lateralis is oblong form. It arises from the upper and, passing obliquely upwards and backwards, is inserted into the outer angle of the base of the arytenoid cartilage, in front of the preceding muscle. The Thyro-arytivnoideus is a broad, flat muscle, which lies parallel with the outer side of the true vocal cord. It arises in front from the lower half of the recedins: ano;le of the thyroid cartilage, and from the crico-thyroid membrane. Its fibres pass horizontally backwards and outwards, to be inserted into the base and anterior surface of the arytenoid cartilage. This muscle consists of two fasciculi. The in- ferior, the thickest, is inserted into the anterior angle of the base of the arytenoid cartilage, and into tlie ad- jacent portion of its anterior surface; it lies parallel with the true vocal cord, to which it is occasionally ad- herent. The superior fasciculus, the thinnest, is inserted into the anterior surface and outer border of the arytenoid cartilage above the preceding fibres; it lies on the outer side of the sacculus laryngis, imme- diately beneath its mucous lining. The Arytsenoideus is a single muscle, filling up the posterior con- cave surface of the arytenoid carti- lages. It arises from the posterior surface and outer border of one arj'tenoid cartilage, and is inserted into the corresponding parts of the opposite cartilage. It consists of three planes of fibres; two oblique, and one transverse. The oblique 'fibres, the most superficial, form two fasciculi, which pass from the base of one cartilage to the apex of the opposite one. The transverse fibres, the deepest and most nume- rous, pass transversely across be- tween the two cartilages; hence the Arytajnoideus was formerly con- sidered as several muscles, under the names of transversi and obliqui. A few of the oblique fibres are oc- casionally continued round the outer margin of the cartilage, and blend Avith the Thyro-arytenoid or the Arytasno-epiglottideus muscle. smaller than the preceding, and of an border of the side of the cricoid cartilage, Fipt. 359.—Muscles of Larynx, Side View. Riglit Ala of Thyroid Cartilage removed. ComCculi TJiyroid Cart 3^ Fig. 360.—Interior of the Larynx, seen from above. (Enlarged.)