MUSCLES AND FASCIA. 244 front of the optic foramen; and is inserted, by a broad aponeurosis, into the upper border of the superior tarsal cartilage. At its origin, it is narrow and tendinous; but soon becomes broad and fleshy, and finally terminates in a broad aponeurosis. Relations. By its tipper surface, with the frontal nerve and artery, the peri- osteum of the orbit; and, in front, with the inner surface of the broad tarsal ligament. By its under surface, with the Superior rectus; and, in the lid, with the conjunctiva. A small branch of the third nerve enters its under surface. Fig. 149.—Muscles of the Eight Orbit. 'The Rectus Superior, the thinnest and narrowest of the four Eecti, arises from the upper margin of the optic foramen, beneath the Levator palpebrge, and Supe- rior oblique, and from the fibrous sheath of the optic nerve; and is mserted, by a tendinous expansion, into the sclerotic coat, about three or four lines from the margin of the cornea. Relations. By its upper surface, with the Levator palpebrse. By its under surface, with the optic nerve, the ophthalmic artery, and nasal nerve; and, in front, with the tendon of the Superior oblique, and the globe of the eye. The Inferior and Internal Recti arise by a common tendon, the ligament of Zinn, which is attached round the circumference of the optic foramen, except at its upper and outer part. The External rectus has two heads: the upper one arises from the outer margin of the optic foramen, immediately beneath the Superior rectus; the lower head, partly from the ligament of Zinn, and partly from a small pointed process of bone on the lower margin of the sphenoidal fissure. Each muscle passes forward in the position implied by its name, to be inserted, by a ten- dinous expansion, into the sclerotic coat, about three or four lines from the margin of the cornea. Between the two heads of the External rectus is a narrow interval, through which pass the third, nasal branch of the fifth, and sixth nerves, and the ophthalmic vein. Although nearly all these muscles present a common origin, and are inserted in a similar manner in the sclerotic coat, there are certain differences to be observed in them, as regards their length and breadth. The Internal rectus is the broadest; the External, the longest; and the Superior, the thinnest and narrowest. Fig. 150.—Tlie relative Position and Attachment of tlie Muscles of the Left Eyeball.