614 ORGANS or THE SENSES. In the roof, the opening leading to the sphenoidal sinus is narrowed, and the apertures in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid completely closed in. The arteries of the nasal fossse are the anterior and posterior ethmoidal, from | the ophthalmic, which supply the ethmoidal cells, frontal sinuses, and roof of the i nose ; the spheno-palatine, from the internal maxillary, which supplies the mucous j membrane covering the spongy bones, the meatuses, and septum ; and the alveolar branch of the internal maxillary, which supplies the lining membrane of the antrum. The ramifications of these vessels form a close, plexiform network, beneath and in the substance of the mucous membrane. The veins of the nasal fossse form a close network beneath the mucous mem- brane. They pass, some with the veins accompanying the spheno-palatine artery, through the spheno-palatine foramen; and others, through the alveolar branch, join the facial vein; some accompany the ethmoidal arteries, and terminate in the • ophthalmic vein; and, lastly, a few communicate with the veins in the interior of the skull, through the foramina in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. The nerves are the olfactory. Fig. 302.-Nerves of Septum of Nose. Right Side. nasal branch of the ophthal- mic, filaments from the anterior dental branch of the superior maxillary, the Vidian, naso-pala- tine, descending anterior palatine, and spheno-palatine branches of Meckel's ganglion. The olfactory, the special nerve of the sense of smell, is distri- buted over the upper third of the septum, and over the surface of the superior and middle spongy bones. The nasal branch of the oph- thalmic distributes filaments to the upper and anterior part of the septum, and outer wall of the nasal fossse. Filaments from the anterior dental branch of the superior maxillary supply the inferior meatus and inferior turbinated bone. The Vidian nerve supplies the upper and back part of the septum, and superior spongy bone; and the upper anterior nasal branches from the spheno-palatine ganglion, have a similar distribution. The naso-palatine nerve supplies the middle of the septum. The larger or anterior palatine nerve supplies the middle and lower spongy bones. The Eye. The eyeball is contained in the cavity of the orbit. In this situation it is securely protected from injury, whilst its position is such as to insure the most extensive range of sight. It is acted upon by numerous muscles, by which it is capable of being directed to any part, is supplied by vessels and nerves, and is additionally protected in front by several appendages, such as the eyebrow, eyelids, etc. The eyeball is spherical in form, having the segment of a smaller and more prominent sphere engrafted upon its anterior part. It is from this circumstance, that the antero-posterior diameter of the eyeball, which measures about an inch, exceeds the transverse diameter by about a line. The segment of the larger sphere, which forms about five-sixths of the globe, is opaque, and formed by the sclerotic, the tunic of protection to the eyeball; the smaller sphere, which forms the remaining sixth, is transparent, and formed by the cornea. The axes of the