OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 473 VEINS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. The veins of the lower extremity are subdivided, like those of the upper, into two sets, superficial and deep; the superficial veins being placed beneath the integu- ment, between the two layers of superficial fascia, IT • 'ill" If? ^44.—I lie liiterii3,i or the deep veins accompanymg the arteries, and lorm- j^^^g Saphenous Vein ing the ven^ comites of those vessels. Both sets of and its Branches. veins are provided with valves, which are more nu- merous in the deep than in the superficial set. These valves are also more numerous in the lower than in the upper limbs. The Superficial Veins of the lower extremity are the internal or long saphenous, and the external or short saphenous. The internal saphenous vein (fig. 244) com- mences from a minute plexus, which covers the dorsum and inner side of the foot; it ascends in front of the inner ankle, and along the inner side of the leg, behind the inner margin of the tibia, accompanied by the internal saphenous nerve. At the knee, it passes backwards behind the inner condyle of the femur, ascends along the inside of the thigh, and, passing through the saphenous opening in the fascia lata, terminates in the femoral vein, an inch and a half below Poupart's ligament. This vein receives in its course cutaneous branches from the leg and thigh, and, at the saphenous open- ing, the superficial epigastric, superficial circumflex iliac, and external pudic veins. The veins from the inner and back part of the thigh frequently unite to form a large vessel, which enters the main trunk near the saphenous opening, and sometimes those on the outer side of the thigh join to form a large branch; so that occasionally three large veins are seen converging from different parts of the thigh towards the saphenous opening. The internal saphenous vein communicates in the foot with the internal plantar vein ; in the leg, with the posterior tibial veins, by branches which perforate the tibial origin of the Sole us muscle, and also with the ante- rior tibial veins; at the knee, with the articular veins; in the thigh, with the femoral vein by one or more branches. The valves in this vein vary from two to six in number; they are more numerous in the thigh than in the leg. The external or short saphenous vein is formed by branches which collect the blood from the dorsum and outer side of the foot; it ascends behind the outer ankle, and along the outer border of the tendo Achillis, across which it passes at an acute angle to reach the middle line of the posterior aspect of the leg. Ascending directly upwards, it perforates the deep fascia in the lower part of the popliteal space, and terminates in the popliteal vein, between the heads of the Grastrocnemius muscle. It is accompanied by the external saphenous nerve.