BASE OF THE BRAIN. 517 The convolution of the corpus callosum {gyrus fornicatus) is always well marked. It lies parallel witli the upper surface of the corpus callosum, com- mencing on the under surface of the brain in front of the anterior perforated space; it winds round the curved border of the corpus callosum, and passes along its upper surface as far as its posterior extremity, where it is connected with the convolutions of the posterior lobe; it then curves downwards and forwards, embracing the cerebral peduncle, passes into the middle lobe, forming the hippocampus major, and terminates just behind the point from whence it arose. The supra-orhital convolution on the under surface of the anterior lobe is well marked. The convolution of the longitudinal fissure bounds the margin of the fissure on the upper surface of the hemisphere. It commences on the under surface of the brain, at the anterior perforated space, passes forwards along the inner margin of the anterior lobe, being here divided by a deep sulcus, in which the olfactory nerve is received; it then curves over the anterior and upper surface of the hemi- sphere, along the margin of the longitudinal fissure, to its posterior extremity, where it curves forwards along the under surface of the hemisphere as far as the middle lobe. The convolutions on the outer convex surface of the hemisphere, the general direction of which is more or less oblique, are the largest and the most complicated convolutions of the brain, frequently becoming branched like the letter Y in their course upwards and backwards towards the longitudinal fissure: these convolutions attain their greatest development in man, and are especially characteristic of the human brain. They are seldom symmetrical on the two sides. Under Surface or Base. The under surface of each hemisphere presents a subdivision, as already mentioned, into three lobes, named, from their position, anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior lobe, of a triangular form, with its apex backwards, is somewhat concave, and rests upon the convex surface of the roof of the orbit, being separated from the middle lobe by the fissure of Sylvius. The middle lobe, which is more prominent, is received into the middle fossa of the base of the skull. The j^osterior lobe rests upon the tentorium, its extent forwards being limited by the anterior margin of the cerebellum. The various objects exposed to view on the under surface of the cerebi'um in the middle line are here arranged in the order in which they are met with from before backwards. Longitudinal fissure. Tuber cinereum. Corpus callosum and its peduncles. Infundibulum. Lamina cinerea. Pituitary body. Olfactory nerve. Corpora albicantia. Fissure of Sylvius. Posterior perforated space. Anterior perforated space. Crura cerebri. Optic commissure. The longitudinal fissure partially separates the two hemispheres from one another; it divides the two anterior lobes in front, and, on raising the cerebellum and pons, it will be seen completely separating the two posterior lobes, the inter- mediate portion of the fissure being arrested by the great transverse band of white matter, the corpus callosum. Of these two portions of the longitudinal fissure, that which separates the posterior lobes is the longest. In the fissure between the two anterior lobes the anterior cerebral arteries may be seen ascending to the corpus callosum; and at the back part of this portion of the fissure, the anterior curved portion of the corpus callosum descends to the base of the brain.