OSTEOLOGY. 48 of vessels, its interior iDeing traversed by one or two large canals for tlie reception of veins, which converge towards a single large irregular aperture or several small ones at the posterior part of the body Fig. 8.—Development of a Vertebra. SyS jtrimary eentret . ffcrBody f8^' uhcA^ f for eauh lavtin'L (6 we-elj Fig. 9. £y IfSr.conxilar-ii Centre a i j-ar ea.e% Trann.Proo. /6 Z sormtimee 1 i for S^in.proo, (16yT^^ Fig. 10. 3^/ 2 adelitifmal latei ifoTu^er surface of lodjj 21 I—/for untior surfac6\ of bod If -Atlas. f jor aTWer. arcA ("^-y'j J for oaeJi lai.eral. mans ] vlirt7i -Axis. 0 emtres Zfor cdonWJdproo (e^ moj /far eacA lateral mats \ ' /for InJ-i (mo.) Fig. 13.—Lumbar Vertebra. 2. tulditioTlXll C'CJltT£J far tuherclet on Sup.Artie.R-oe. of each bone. The arch and processes projecting from it have, on the con- trary, an exceedingly thick covering of compact tissue. Development. Each vertebra is form- ed of three primary cartilaginous por- tions (fig. 8); one for each lamina and its processes, and one for the body. Ossification commences in the laminse about the sixth week of foetal life, in the situation where the transverse pro- cesses afterwards project, the ossific granules shooting backwards to the spine, forwards to the body, and out- wards into the transverse and articular processes. Ossification in the body makes its appearance in the middle of the cartilage about the eighth week. At birth, these three pieces are per- fectly separate. During the first year, the laminae become united behind, by a portion of cartilage in which the spinous process is ultimately formed, and thus the arch is completed. About the third year, the body is joined to the arch on each side, in such a man- ner that the body is formed from the three original centres of ossification, the amount contributed by the pedicles increasing in extent from below up- wards. Thus the bodies of the sacral vertebrae are formed almost entirely from the central nuclei, the bodies of the lumbar segments are formed late- rally and behind by the pedicles. In the dorsal region the pedicles advance as far forwards as the articular depres- sions for the heads of the ribs, forming these cavities of reception; and in the neck the whole of the lateral portions of the bodies are formed by the ad- vance of the pedicles. Before puberty, no other changes occur excepting a gradual increase in the growth of these primary centres, the upper and under surface of the bodies, and tlie ends of the transverse and spinous processes, being tipped with cartilage, in which ossific granules are not as yet depo- sited. At sixteen years (fig. 9), four secondary centres appear, one for the tip of each transverse process, and two (sometimes united into one) for the end of the spinous process. At twenty-