ULNA. 135 radius, being the largest and longest of the two. Its upper extremity, of great thickness and strength, forms a large part of the articulation of the elbow-joint; it diminishes in size from above downwards, its lower extremity being very small, and excluded from the wrist-joint by the interposition of an interarticular fibro-cartilage. It is divisible into a shaft, and two extremities. The Upper Extremity, the strongest part of the bone, presents for examination two large curved processes, the Olecranon process, and the Coronoid process; and two concave articular cavities, the greater and lesser Sigmoid cavities. The Olecranon Process {Cixsvr;, elbow; xi>dvov, head) is a large, thick, curved eminence, situated at the upper and back part of the ulna. It rises somewhat higher than the coronoid, is curved forwards at the siimmit so as to present a pro- minent tip, its base being contracted where it joins the shaft. This is the narrowest part of the upper end of the ulna, and, consequently, the most usual seat of fracture. Its posterior surface, directed backwards, is of a triangular form, smooth, subcutaneous, and covered by a bursa. Its upper surface, directed upwards, is of a quadrilateral form, marked behind by a rough impression for the attachment of the Triceps muscle; and, in, front, near the margin, by a slight transverse groove for the attachment of part of the posterior ligament of the elbow-joint. Its anterior surface is smooth, concave, covered with cartilage in the recent state, and forms the upper and back part of the great sigmoid cavity. The lateral borders present a continuation of the same groove that was seen on the margin of the superior, surface; they serve for the attachment of ligaments, viz., the back part of the interior lateral ligament internally; the posterior liga- ment externally. The olecranon process, in its structure as well as in its position and use, resembles the Patella in the lower limb; and, like it, sometimes exists as ai separate piece, not united to the rest of the bone.' The Coronoid Process {xopCivr), a croiv's beak; hSo;, form) is a rough triangular eminence of bone which projects horizontally forwards from the upper and front part of the ulna, forming the lower part of the great sigmoid cavity. Its base is continuous with the shaft, and of considerable strength, so much so, that fracture of it is an accident of rare occurrence. Its apex is pointed, slightly curved upwards, and received into the coronoid depression of the humeriis in flexion of the forearm. Its upper surface is smooth, concave, and forms the lower part of the great sigmoid cavity. The under surface is concave, and marked internally by a rough impression for the insertion of the Brachialis anticus. At the junction of this surface with the shaft is a rough eminence, the tubercle of the ulna, for the attachment of the oblique ligament. Its outer surface presents a narrow, oblong, articular depression, the lesser sigmoid cavity. The inner surface, by its prominent free margin, serves for the attachment of part of the internal lateral ligament. At the front part of this surface is a small rounded eminence for the attachment of one head of the Flexor digitorum sublimis. Behind the eminence, a depression for part of the origin of the Flexor profundus digitorum; and, descending from the eminence, a ridge, which gives attachment to one head of the Pronator radii teres. The Greater Sigmoid Cavity (5t'yM»> ttSoi, form), so called from its resemblance to the Greek letter 2, is a semilunar depression of large size, situated between the olecranon and coronoid processes, and serving for articulation with the trochlear surface of the humerus. About the middle of either lateral border of this cavity is a notch which contracts it somewhat, and serves to indicate the junction of the two processes of which it is formed. The cavity is concave from above downwards, and divided into two lateral parts by a smooth elevated ridge, which runs from the summit of the olecranon to the tip of the coronoid process. Of these two portions, the internal is the largest; it is slightly concave transversely, the external portion being nearly plane from side to side. ' Professor Owen regards the olecranon to be homologous not with the patella, but with an extension of the upper end of the fibula above the knee-joint, which is mot with in the Ornitho- rynchus, Echidna, and some other animals. (Owen, " On the Nature of Limbs.")