PLANTAR. 589 Fig. 295.—The Plantar Nerves. these branches accompany the superior and inferior internal articular arteries, and a third the azygos. The muscular branches, four or five in number, arise from the nerve as it lies between the two heads of the Grastrocnemius muscle; they supply this muscle, the Plantaris, Soleus, and Popliteus. The external or short saphenous nerve descends between tlie two heads of the Gastrocnemius muscle, and, about the middle of the back of the leg, pierces the deep fascia, and receives a communicating branch {communicans peronei) from the external popliteal nerve. The nerve then continvies its course down the leg near the outer margin of the tendo Achillis, in company with the external saphenous vein, winds round the outer malleolus, and is distributed to the integument along the outer side of the foot and little toe, communicating on the dorsum of the foot with the musculo-cutaneous nerve. The Posterior Tibial nerve commences at the lower border of the Popliteus muscle, and passes along the back part of the leg with the posterior tibial vessels to the interval between the inner malleolus and the heel, where it divides into the external and internal plantar nerves. It lies upon the deep muscles of the leg, and is covered by the deep fascia, the superficial muscles, and integument. In the upper part of its course, it lies to the inner side of the posterior tibial artery; but it soon crosses that vessel, and lies to its outer side as far as the ankle. In the lower third of the leg, it is placed parallel with the inner margin of the tendo Achillis. The branches of the posterior tibial nerve are muscular and plantar cutaneous. The muscular branches arise either separ'ately or by a common trunk from the upper part of the nerve. They supply the Tibialis posticus, Flexor longus digi- torum, and Flexor longus pollicis muscles; the branch to the latter muscle accompanies the peroneal artery. The plantar cutcmeous branch perforates the internal annular ligament, and sup- plies the integument of the heel and inner side of the sole of the foot. The internal pAantar nerve (fig. 295), the larger of the two terminal branches of the posterior tibial, accompanies the internal plantar artery along the inner side of the foot. From its origin at the inner ankle it passes forwards between the Abductor pollicis and Flexor brevis digitorum, divides opposite the bases of the metatarsal bones into four digital branches, and communicates with the external plantar nerve. Branches. In its course, the internal plantar nerve givbS off cutaneous branches, which pierce the plantar fascia, and supply the integument of the sole of the foot; muscular branches, which supply the Abductor pollicis and Flexor brevis digi- toriTm; articular branches to the articulations of the tarsus and metatarsus; and four digital branches. The&e pierce the plantar fascia in the clefts between the toes, and are distributed in the following manner:—The first supplies the inner border of the great toe, and sends a filament to the Flexor brevis pollicis muscle; the second bifurcates, to supply the adjacent sides of the great and second toes.