543 FACIAL. from the aurictfiar brancli of the pneumogastric, and commTiiiicates with tlie deep branch of the auricularis magnus; as it ascends between the meatus and mastoid process it divides into two branches. The auricular branch supplies the Eetra- hens aurem, and the integument at the back part of the auricle. The occipital branch, the larger, passes backwards along the superior curved line of the occi- pital bone, and supplies the occipital portion of the Occipito-frontalis and the integument. The Stylo-hyoid is a long slender branch, which passes inwards, entering the Stylo-hyoid muscle about its middle; it communicates with the sympathetic fila- ments on the external carotid artery. The Digastric branch usually arises by a common trunk with the preceding; it divides into several filaments, which supply the posterior belly of the Digastric; one of these perforates that muscle to join the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The Temporo-facial, the larger of the two terminal branches, passes upwards and forwards through the parotid gland, crosses the neck of the condyle of the jaw, being connected in this situation with the auriculo-temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve, and divides into branches, which are distributed over the temple and upper part of the face; these may be divided into three sets, temporal, malar, and infra-orbital. The temporal branches cross the zygoma to the temporal region, siipplying the Attrahens aurem and the integument, and join with the temporal branch of the superior maxillary, and with the auriculo-temporal branch of the inferior maxillary. The more anterior branches supply the frontal portion of the Occipito- frontalis, and the Orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, joining with the supra-orbital branch of the ophthalmic. The mcdar branches pass across the malar bone to the outer angle of the orbit, where they supply the Orbicularis and Corrugator supercilii muscles, joining with filaments from the lachrymal and supra-orbital nerves; others supply the lower eyelid, joining with filaments of the malar branches of the superior maxillary nerve. The infra-orbital, of larger size than the rest, pass horizontally forwards to be distributed between the lower margin of the orbit and the mouth. The superficial branches run beneath the skin and above the superficial muscles of the face, Avhich they supply, being distributed to the integument and hair follicles; some supply the lower eyelid and Pyramidalis nasi, joining, at the inner angle of the orbit, with the infra-trochlear and nasal branches of the ophthalmic. The deep branches pass beneath the Levator labii superioris, supply it and the Levator anguli oris, and form a plexus (infra-orbital) by joining with the infra-orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve. The Cervico-facial division of the facial nerve passes obliquely downwards and forwards through the parotid gland, where it is joined by branches from the great auricular nerve; opposite the angle of the lower jaw it divides into branches, Avhich are distributed on the lower half of the face and upper part of the neck. These may be divided into three sets: buccal, supra-maxillary, and infra-maxillary. The buccal branches cross the Masseter muscle, join the infra-orbital branches of the temporo-facial division of the nerve, and with filaments of the biiccal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve. They supply the Buccinator and Orbi- cularis oris. •» The supra-maxillary brcmches pass forwards beneath the Platysma and De- pressor anguli oris, supplying the muscles and the integument of the lijD and chin, anastomosing with the mental branch of the inferior dental nerve. The infra-maxillary branches run forward beneath the Platysma, and form a series of arches across the side of the neck over the supra-liyoid region. One of these branches descends vertically to join with the superficial cervical nerve from the cervical plexus; others supply the Platysma and Levator labii inferioris.