VEINS. 4G4 numerous veins from the diploe and dura mater, and, at the posterior extremity of the sagittal suture, the parietal veins from the pericranium. The point where the superior longitudinal and lateral sinuses are continuous is called the confluence of the sinuses or the torcular Heropltili. It presents a con- siderable dilatation, of very irregular form, and is the point of meeting of six sinuses, the superior longitudinal, the two lateral, the two occipital, and the straight. The Inferior Longitudinal Sinus, more correctly described as the inferior longitudinal vein, is contained in the posterior part of the free margin of the falx cerebri. It is of a circular form, increases in size as it passes backwards, and terminates in the straight sinus. It receives several veins from the falx cerebri, and occasionally a few from the flat surface of the hemispheres. The Straight Sinus is situated at the line of junction of the falx cerebri with the tentorium. It is triangular in form, increases in size as it proceeds back- wards, and runs obliquely downwards and backwards from the termination of the inferior longitudinal sinus to the torcular Herophili. Besides the inferior lon- gitudinal sinus, it receives the vena3 Galeni, the inferior median cerebral veins, and the superior cerebellar. A few transverse bands cross its interior. Fig. 238.—Vertical Section of the Skull, showing the Sinuses of the Dura Mater. Cccciar The Lateral Sinuses are of large size, and situated in the attached margin of the tentorium cerebelli. They commence at the torcular Herophili, and, passing horizontally outwards to the base of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, curve downwards and inwards on each side to reach the jugular foramen, where they terminate in the internal jugular vein. Each sinus rests, in its course, upon the inner surface of the occipital bone, the posterior inferior angle of the parietal, the mastoid portion of the temporal, and on the occipital again just before its termi- nation. These sinu.ses are of unequal size, the right being the larger, and they increase in size as they proceed from behind forwards. The horizontal portion is of a triangular form, the curved portion semi-cylindrical; their inner surface is smooth, and not crossed by the fibrous bands found in the other sinuses. These sinuses receive blood from the superior longitudinal, the straight, and the occipital sinuses; and in front they communicate with the superior and inferior petrosal. They communicata with the veins of the pericranium by means of the mastoid and posterior condyloid veins, and they receive the inferior cerebral and inferior cerebellar veins, and some from the diploe. The Occipital are the smallest of the cranial sinuses. They are usually two in number, and situated in the attached margin of the I'alx cerebelli. They commence