293 UPPER EXTREMITY. MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE UPPER BXTEEMITY. The muscles of tlie Upper Extremity are divisible into groups, corresponding with the different rearions of the limb. Anterior Thoracic Region. Pectoralis major. Pectoralis minor. Subclavius. Lateral Thoracic Region. Serratus magnus. Acromial Region. Deltoid. Anterior Scapular Region. Subscapularis. Posterior Scapular Region. Supra-spinatus. Infra-spinatus. Teres minor. Teres major. Anterior Humeral Region. Coraco-brachialis. Biceps. Brachialis anticus. Posterior Humeral Region. Triceps. Subanconeus. Anterior Brachial Region. 1. Superficial Layer. Pronator radii teres. Flexor carpi radialis. Palmaris longus. Flexor carpi ulnaris. Flexor sublimis digitorum. 2. Deep Layer. Flexor profundus digitorum. Flexor longus pollicis. Pronator quadratus. Radial Region. Supinator longus. Extensor carpi radialis longior. Extensor carpi radialis brevior. Posterior Brachial Region.' 1. Superficial Layer. Extensor communis digitorum. Extensor minimi digiti. Extensor carpi ulnaris. Anconeus. 2. Deep Layer. Supinator brevis. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. Extensor primi internodii pollicis. Extensor secundi internodii pollicis. Extensor indicis. Muscles of the Hand, Radial Region. Abductor pollicis. Flexor ossis metacarpi pollicis (opponens). Flexor brevis pollicis. Adductor pollicis. Ulnar Region. Palmaris brevis. Abductor minimi digiti. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Flexor ossis metacarpi minimi digiti. Palmar Region. Lumbricales. Interossei palmares. Interossei dorsales. Dissection of Pectoral Region and Axilla (fig. 168). The arm being drawn away from the side nearly at right angles with the trunk, and rotated outwards, a vertical incision should be made through the integument in the median line of the chest, from the upper to the lower part of the sternum ; a second incision should be carried along the lower border of the Pectoral mus- cle, from the ensiform cartilage to the outer side of the axilla ; a third, from the sternum along the clavicle, as far as its centre; and a fourth, from the middle of the clavicle obliquely down- wards, along the interspace between the Pectoral and Deltoid muscles, as low as the fold of the arm-pit. The flap of integument may then be dissected off in the direction indicated in the figure, but not entirely removed, as it should be replaced on completing the dissection. If a transverse incision is now made from the lower end of the sternum to the side of the chest, as far as the posterior fold of the arm-pit, and the integument reflected outwards, the axillary space will be more completely exposed.