292 MUSCLES AND FASCIA. The Diaphragm is arched, being convex towards the chest, and concave to the abdomen. The right portion forms a complete arch from before backwards, being accurately moulded over the convex sui;face of the liver, and having resting upon it the concave base of the right lung. The left portion is arched from before backwards in a similar manner; but the arch is narrower in front, being encroached upon by the pericardium, and lower than the right, at its summit, by about three quarters of an inch. It supports the base of the left lung, and covers the great end of the stomach, the spleen, and left kidney. The central portion, which sup- ports the heart, is higher, in front at the sternum, and behind at the vertebrae, than the lateral portions; but deeper, this is reversed. The height of the Diaphragm is constantly varying during respiration, being carried upwards or downwards from the average level; its height also varies according to the degree of distension of the stomach and intestines, and the size of the liver. After a forced expiration, the right arch is on a level, in front, with the fourth costal cartilage ; at the side, with the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs; and behind, with the eighth rib : the left arch being usually the breadth of from one to two ribs below the level of the right one. In a forced inspiration, it descends from one to two inches; its slope would then be represented by a line drawn from the ensiform cartilage towards the tenth rib. Nerves. The Diaphragm is supplied by the phrenic nerves. Actions. The action of the Diaphragm modifies considerably the size of the chest, and the position of the thoracic and abdominal viscera. During a forced inspiration, the cavity of the thorax is enlarged in the vertical direction from two to three inches, partly from the ascent of the walls of the chest, partly from the descent of the Diaphragm. The chest, consequently, encroaches upon the abdomen; the lungs are expanded, and lowered, in relation with the ribs, nearly two inches; the heart being drawn down about an inch and a half, the descent of the latter organ taking place indirectly through the medium of its connec- tion with the lungs, as well as directly by means of the central tendon to which the pericardium is attached. The abdominal viscera are also pushed down (the liver, to the extent of nearly three inches), so that these organs are no longer protected by the ribs. During expiration, when the Diaphragm is passive, it is pushed up by the action of the abdominal miiscles; the cavity of the abdomen, with the organs contained in it, encroaches upon the chest, by which the lungs and heart are compressed upwards, and the vertical diameter of the thoracic cavity diminished. The Diaphragm is passive when raised or lowered by the abdominal organs, independently of respiration, in proportion as they are large or small, full or empty; hence the oppression felt in the chest after a full meal, or from flatulent distension of the stomach and intestines. In all expulsive acts, the Diaphragm is called into action, to give additional power to each expulsive effort. Thus, before sneezing, coughing, laughing, and crying, before vomiting, previous to the expulsion of the urine and faeces, or of the foetus from the womb, a deep inspiration takes place.' Muscles of the Peeineum. These muscles are described with the anatomy of the Perineum (p. 778). ' For a detailed description of the general relations of the Diaphragm, and its action, refer to Dr. Sibson's "Medical Anatomy."