340 MUSCLES AND FASCIA. By its deeip surface, with the Semi-membranosus, Adductor magnus, inner head of the Gastrocnemius, and internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The Semi-membranosus, so called from the membranous expansion on its anterior and posterior surfaces, is situated at the back part and inner side of the thigh. It arises by a thick tendon from the upper and outer part of the tuberosity of the ischium, above and to the outer side of the Biceps and Semi-tendinosus, and is inserted into the inner and back part of the inner tuberosity of the tibia, beneath the internal lateral ligament. The tendon of the muscle at its origin expands into an aponeurosis, which covers the upper part of its anterior surface; from this aponeurosis muscular fibres arise, and converge to another aponeurosis, which covers the lower part of its posterior surface, and this contracts into the tendon of insertion. The tendon of the muscle at its insertion divides into three portions; the middle portion is the fasciculus of insertion into the back part of the inner tuberosity, sending down an expansion to cover the Popliteus muscle. The internal portion is horizontal, passing forwards beneath the internal lateral liga- ment, to be inserted into a groove along the inner side of the internal tuberosity. The posterior division passes upwards and backwards, to be inserted into the back part of the outer condyle of the femur, forming the chief part-of the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. The tendons of the two preceding muscles, with those of the Gracilis and Sartorius, form the inner ham-string. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Semi-tendinosus, Biceps, and fascia lata. By its deep surface, with the popliteal vessels, Adductor magnus, and the inner head of the Gastrocnemius, from which it is separated by a synovial bursa. By its inner border, with the Gracilis. By its outer border, with the great sciatic nerve, and its internal popliteal branch. Nerves. The muscles of this region are supplied by the great sciatic nerve. Actions. The three ham-string muscles flex the leg upon the thigh. When the knee is semi-flexed, the Biceps, from its oblique direction downwards and outwards, rotates the leg slightly outwards; and the Semi-membranosus, in consequence of its oblique direction, rotates the leg inwards, assisting the Popliteus. Taking their fixed point from below, these muscles serve to support the pelvis upon the head of the femur, and to draw the trunk directly backAvards, as is seen in feats of strength, when the body is thrown backwards in the form of an arch. Surgical Anatomy. The tendons of these muscles occasionally require subcutaneous division in some forms of spurious anchylosis of the knee-joint, dependent upon permanent contraction and rigidity of the Flexor muscles, or from stiffening of the ligamentous and other tissues sur- rounding the joint, the result of disease. This is easily effected by putting the tendon upon the stretch, and inserting a narrow sharp-pointed knife between it and the skin; the cutting edge being then turned towards the tendon, it should be divided, taking care that the wound in the skin is not at the same time enlarged. This operation has been attended with considerable suc- cess in some cases of stiffened knee from rheumatism, gradual extension being kept up for some time after the operation. Muscles and Fascia of the Leg. Dissection (fig. 186). The knee should be bent, a block placed beneath it, and the foot kept j'n an extended position ; an incision should then be made through the integument in the middle line of the leg to the ankle, and continued along the dorsum of the foot to the toes. A second incision should be made transversely across the ankle, and a third in the same direction across the bases of the toes: the flaps of integument included between these incisions should be removed, and the deep fascia of the leg examined. The fascia of tlte leg forms a complete investment to the whole of this region of the limb, excepting to the inner surface of the tibia, to which it is unattached. It is continuous above with the fascia lata, receiving an expansion from the tendon of the Biceps on the outer side, and from the tendons of the Sartorius, Gracilis, and Semi-tendinosus on the inner side; in front it blends with the periosteum covering the tibia and fibula; below, it is continuous with the annular ligaments of the ankle. It is thick and dense in the upper and anterior part of