ORGANS OF VOICE AND RESPIRATION. Fia 356.—The Cartilapces of the Larynx. Posterior View. EPIGLOTTIS The posterior horders, thick and rounded, terminate, above, in the superior cornua; and, below, in the inferior cornua. The two superior cornua are long and narrow, directed backwards, upwards, and inwards; and terminate in a conical extremity, which gives attachment to the thyro-hyoid ligament. The two inferior cornua are short and thick; they pass forwards and inwards, and present, on their inner surfaces, a small, oval, articular facet for articulation with the side of the cricoid cartilage. The posterior border receives the insertion of the Stylo-pharyngeus and Palato-pharyngeus muscles on each side. The Cricoid Cartilage is so called from its resemblance to a signet-ring {xpixoi ftSoj, Ulce a ring). It is smaller but thicker and stronger than the thyroid cartilage, and forms the lower and back part of the cavity of the larynx. Its anterior half is narrow, convex, affording attachment in front and at the sides to the Crico-thyroid muscles, and, be- hind those, to part of the Inferior constrictor. Its 2Msterior half is very broad, both from side to side and from above downwards; it presents in the middle line a vertical ridge for the attachment of the longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus, and on either side of this is a broad depression for the Crico-arytsenoideus posticus muscle. At the point of junction of the two halves of the cartilage on either side, is a small' round elevation, for articulation with the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The lower border of the cricoid cartilage is horizontal, and con- nected to the upper ring of the trachea by fibrous membrane. Its tqyper border is directed ob- liquely upwards and backwards, owing to the great depth of its posterior surface. It gives at- tachment, in front, to the crico- thyroid membrane ; at the sides, to part of the same membrane and to the lateral Crico-aryte- noid muscle; behind, the highest point of the upper border is surmounted on each side by a smooth, oval surface, for articulation with fhe arytenoid cartilage. Be- tween the articular surfaces is a slight notch, for the attachment of part of the Arytaenoideus muscle. The inner surface of the cricoid cartilage is smooth, and lined by mucous mem- brane. The Arytenoid Cartilages are so called from the resemblance they bear, when THYRO ARVTENO CRtcO-ARyTjCNOro ^OftTICkE £1 1.ATERALI& A.riuiuZcLr /aaei ulay facet. ef Thyroid Arytenoid CartV^. laao