650 ORGANS or DIGESTION. Development of Teeth. Flo. 324. r I C. 325, nc. 327. FIC. 328. FIC. 329. i s The dental groove now becomes contracted, its margins thickened and prominent, and the groove is converted into follicles for the re- ception of the papillae, by the growth of mem- branous septa, which pass across the groove between its borders (fig. 326). The follicles by this means become the alveoli, lined by periosteum, from the bottom of which a process of the mucous membrane of the gum rises, which is the germ of the future tooth. The follicle for the first molar is complete about the tenth week; the canine follows next, succeeded by the follicles for the incisors, which are com- pleted about the eleventh or twelfth week; and, lastly, the follicle of the posterior deciduous molar is completed about the fourteenth week. These changes constitute the second or follicu- lar stage. About the thirteenth week, the papillae begin to grow rapidly, project from the follicles, and assume a form corresponding with that of the future teeth; the follicles soon become deeper, and from their margins small membranous processes or opercula are developed, which, meeting, unite and form a lid to the now closed cavity (fig. 327). These processes correspond in shape to the form of the crown of the tooth, and in number to the tubercles on its surface. The follicles of the incisor teeth have two opercula, the canine three, and the molars four or five each. The follicles are thus con- verted into dental sacs, and the contained papillae become pulps. The lips of the dental groove gradually advance over the follicles from behind forwards, and, uniting, gradually ob- literate it. This completes the third or saccular stage, which takes place about the end of the fifteenth week. The deep portion of the primitive dental groove is now closed-in; but the more super- ficial portion, near the surface of the gum, still remains open; it is called, by Mr. Goodsir, the secondary denial groove; from it are developed the ten anterior permanent teeth. About the fourteenth Aveek, certain lunated depressions are formed, one behind each of the sacs of the rudimentary milk-teeth? They are ten in number in each jaw, and are formed successively from before backwards; they are the rudimentary follicles of the four permanent incisors, the two canine, and the four bicuspids. As the secondary dental groove closes in, these follicles become closed cavities of reserve (fig. 327). The cavities soon elongate, and recede from the surface into the substance of the gum, behind the sacs of the deciduous teeth, and a papilla projects from the bottom of