OF THE HAND. 315 Extensors of the wrist; continuing their action, they serve to extend tlie forearm upon the arm; tliey are tli^ direct antagonists of tlie Flexor carpi radialis and ulnaris. Tlie common Extensor of the fingers, the Extensors of the thumb, and the Extensors of the index and little fingers, serve to extend the phalanges into which they are inserted ; and are the direct antagonists of the Flexors. By con- tinuing their action, they assist in extending the forearm. The Extensors of the thumb may assist in supinating the forearm, when this part of the hand has been drawn inwards towards the palm, on account of the oblique direction of the tendons of these muscles. Muscles and Fascia of the Hand. Dissection (fig. 168). Make a transverse incision across the front of tlie wrist, and a second across the heads of the metacarpal bones, connect the two by a vertical incision in the middle line, and continue it through the centre of the middle finger. The anterior and posterior annular ligaments, and the palmar fascia, should first be dissected. The Anterior Annular Ligament is a strong fibrous band, which arches over the carpus, converting the deep groove on the front of these bones into a canal, beneath which pass the flexor tendons of the fingers. It is attached, internally, to the pisiform bone, and unciform process of the unciform; and externally, to the tuberosity of the scaphoid, and ridge on the trapezium. It is continuous, above, with the deep fascia of the forearm, and, below, with the palmar fascia. It is crossed by the tendon of the Palmaris longus, by the ulnar vessels and nerve, and the cutaneous branches of the median and ulnar nerves. It has inserted into its upper and inner part, the tendon of the Flexor carpi ulnaris; and has, arising from it below, the small muscles of the thumb and little finger. It is pierced by the tendon of the Flexor carpi radialis; and, beneath it, pass the tendons of the Flexor sublimis and Flexor profundus digitorum, the Flexor longus pollicis, and the median nerve. There are two synovial membranes beneath this ligament; one of large size, inclosing the tendons of the Flexor sublimis and Flexor profundus; and a separate one for the tendon of the Flexor longus pollicis; the latter is also large and very extensive, reaching from above the wrist to the extremity of the last phalanx of the thumb. The Posterior Annular Liga- ment is a strong fibrous band. Fig. 176.—Transverse section through the Wrist, show- extending transversely across the back of the wrist, and con- tinuous with the fascia of the forearm. It forms a sheath for the Extensor tendons in their passage to the fingers, being attached, internally, to the ulna, the cuneiform and pisiform bones, and palmar fascia; ex- ternally, to the margin of the radius; and in its passage across the wrist, to the elevated ridges on the posterior surface of the radius. It presents six com- partments for the passage of tendons, each of which is lined by a separate synovial mem- brane. These are, from without inwards—1. On the outer side of the styloid pro- cess for the tendons of the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and Extensor primi internodii pollicis. 2. Behind the styloid process, for the tendons of the Extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior. 3. Opposite the outer side of the posterior surface of the radius, for the tendon of the Extensor secundi internodii pollicis. mg the Posterior Annular Ligament, and the canals for the passage of the Extensor Tendons.