155 PELYIS. cartilaginous. At about the sixth year, the rami of the puhes and ischium are almost completely ossified. About the thirteenth or fourteenth year, the three divisions of the bone have extended their growth into the bottom of the acetabu- lum, being separated from each other by a Y-shaped portion of cartilage, which now presents traces of ossification. The ilium and ischium then become joined, and lastly the pubes, through the intervention of the portion above-mentioned. At about the age of puberty, ossification takes place in each of the remaining portions, and they become joined to the rest of the bone about the twenty-fifth year. Articulations. With its fellow of the opposite side, the sacrum and femur. Attachment of Muscles. Ilium. To the outer lip of the crest, the Tensor vaginae femoris, Obliquus extern us abdominis, and Latissimus dorsi; to the internal lip, the Transversalis, Quadratus lumborum, and Erector spinae; to the interspace between the lips, the Obliquus internus. To the outer surface of the ilium, the Gluteus maximus. Gluteus medius. Gluteus minimus, reflected tendon of Rectus, portion of Pyriformis; to the internal surface, the Iliacus; to the anterior border, the Sartorius and straight tendon of the Eectus. Ischium. To its outer surface, the Obturator externus; internal surface. Obturator internus and Levator ani. To the spine, the Gemellus superior, Levator ani, and Coccygeus. To the tuberosity, the Biceps, Semi-tendinosus, Semi-membranosus, Quadratus feuioris. Adductor magnus, Gemellus inferior, Transversus perinaei. Erector penis. Pubes, the Obliquus externus, Obliquus internus, Transversalis, Eectus, Pyramidalis, Psoas parvus, Pectineus, Adductor longus. Adductor brevis. Gracilis, Obtu- rator externus and internus, Levator ani. Compressor urethrse, and occasionally a few fibres of the Accelerator urinae. The Pelvis (figs. 100 and 101). The pelvis, so called from its resemblance to a basin (jii^v^), is stronger and more massively constructed than either of the other osseous cavities already con- sidered ; it is a bony ring, interposed between the lower end of the spine, which it supports, and the lower extremities, upon which it rests. It is composed of four bones—the two ossa innominata, which bound it on either side and in front; and the sacrum and coccyx, which complete it behind. The pelvis is divided by a prominent line, the linea ilio-pectinea, into a false and true pelvis. The false pelvis is all that expanded portion of the pelvic cavity which is situated above the linea ilio-pectinea. It is bounded on each side by the ossa ilii; in front it is incomplete, presenting a wide interval between the spinous processes of the ilia on either side, filled up in the recent state by the parietes of the abdomen; behind, in the middle line, is a deep notch. This broad shallow cavity is admirably adapted to support the intestines, and to transmit part of their weight to the anterior wall of the abdomen. The true i^elvis is all that part of the pelvic cavity which is situated beneath the linea ilio-pectinea. It is smaller than the false pelvis, but its walls are more perfect. For convenience of description, it may be divided into a superior cir- cumference or inlet, an inferior circumference or outlet, and a cavity. The superior circumference forms the margin or brim of the pelvis, thc' included space being called the inlet. It is formed by the linea ilio-pectinea, completed in front by the spine and crest of the pubes, and behind by the anterior margin of the base of the sacrum and sacro-vertebral angrle. The inlet of the pelvis is somewhat heart-shaped, obtusely pointed in front, diverging on either side, find encroached upon behind by the projection forwards of the promontory of the sacrum. It has three principal diameters: antero- posterior or sacro-pubic, transverse, and oblique. The antero-posterior extends from the sacro-vertebral angle to the symphysis pubis; its average measurement is four inches. The transverse extends across the greatest width of the inlet,