SUPERFICIAL CERVICAL REGION. 253 1. Superficial Heg^on. Platysma myoides. Sterno-cleido-mastoid. 2. Lifra-hyoid Region. Depressors of the Os Hyoides and Larynx. Sterno-hyoid. Sterno-thyroid. Thyro-tiyoid. Omo-liyoid. 3. Supra-hyoid Region. Elevators of the Os Hyoides and Larynx. Digastric. Stylo-liyoid. Mylo-hyoid. Genio-hyoid. 4. Lingual Region. ; Muscles of the Tongue. Genio-hyo-giossus. Hyo-glossus. Lingualis. Stylo-glossus. Palato-glossus. 5. Muscles of the Pharynx. Constrictor inferior. Constrictor medius. Constrictor superior. Stylo-pliaryngeus. Palato-pharyngeus. 6. Muscles of the Soft Palate. Levator palati. Tensor palati. Azygos uvulse. Palato-glossns. Palato-pharyngeus. 7. Muscles of the Anterior Vertebral Region. Pectus capitis anticus major. Pectus capitis anticus minor. Pectus lateralis. Longus colli. 8. Muscles of the Lateral Vertebral Region. Scalenus anticus. Scalenus medius. Scalenus posticus. 9. Muscles of the Larynx. (Included in the description of the Larynx.) 1. Superficial Cervical Region. Platysma Myoides. Sterno-cleido-mastoid. ^ Dissection. A block having been placed at the back of the neck, and the face turned to the side opposite to that to be dissected, so as to place the parts upon the stretch, two transverse incisions are to be made : one from the chin, alonsr the margin of the lower jaw, to the mastoid process ; and the other along the upper border of the clavicle. These are to be connected by an oblique incision made in the course of the Sterno-mastoid muscle, from the mastoid process to the sternum; the two flaps of integument having been removed in the direction shown in fig. 147, the superfiicial fascia will be exposed. The superficial cervical fascia is exposed on the removal of the integument from the side of the neck; it is an extremely thin aponeurotic lamina, whicli is hardly demonstrable as a separate membrane. Beneath it is found the Platysma myoides muscle, the external jugular vein, and some superficial branches of the cervical plexus of nerves. The Platysma Myoides (fig. 148) is a broad thin plane of muscular fibres, placed immediately beneath the skin on each side of the neck. It arises from the clavicle and acromion, and from the fascia covering the upper part of the Pectoral, Deltoid, and Trapezius muscles; its fibres proceed obliquely upwards and inwards along the side of the neck, to be inserted into the lower jaw beneath the external oblique line, some fibres passing forwards to the angle of the mouth, and t)thers becoming lost in the cellular tissiie of the face. The most anterior fibres interlace, in front of the jaw, with the fibres of the muscle of the opposite side; those next in order become blended Avith the Depressor labii inferioris and the Depressor anguli oris; others are prolonged upon the side of the cheek, and interlace, near the angle of the mouth, with the muscles in this situation, and may occasionally be traced to the Zygomatic muscles, or to the margin of the Orbicularis palpebrarum. Beneath