533 STRUCTURE OF'CEREBELLUM. The gray matter in tlie floor of the ventricle consists of a tolerably tliick stratum, continuous below with the gray commissure of the cord, and extending up as high as the aqueduct of Sylvius, besides some special deposits connected with the roots of origin of certain nerves. In the upper half of the ventricle is a projection situated over the nucleus, from which the sixth and facial* nerves take a common origin. In the lower half are three eminences on each side for the roots of origin of the eighth and ninth nerves. Structure. If a vertical section is made through either hemisphere of the cere- bellum, midway between its centre and the superior vermiform process; it will be found to consist of a central stem of white mat- ter, Avhich contains in its interior a dentate body. From the surface of each hemisphere, a series of plates of medullary matter are detached, which, co- vered with gray matter, form the laminge; and from its anterior part arise three large processes or pedun- cles, superior, middle, and inferior, by which it is con- nected with the rest of the encephalon. The laminx are about ten or twelve in number, including those on both surfaces of the cerebellum, those in front being detached at a right angle, and those behind at an acute angle; as each lamina proceeds outwards, other secondary laminse are detached from it, and, from these, tertiary lamina). The arrangement thus described gives to the cut surface of the organ a foliated appearance, to which the name arhor vitx has been given. Each lamina consists of white matter, covered externally by a layer of gray substance. The white matter of each lamina is derived partly from the central stem; in addition to which white fibres pass from one lamina to another. The gray matter resembles somewhat the cortical substance of the convolutions. It consists of two layers, the external one, soft and of a grayish color, the internal one, firmer and of a rust color. The corpus dcntaium or ganglion of the cerebellum is situated a little to the inner side of the centre of the stem of white matter. It consists of an open bag or capsule of gray matter, the section of which presents a gray dentated outline, being open at its anterior part. It is surrounded by white fibres; white fibres are also contained in its interior, which issue from it to join the superior peduncles. The peduncles of the cerebellum, superior, middle, and inferior, serve to connect it with the rest of the encephalon. The superior peduncles {processus e cerehello ad testes) connect the cerebellum with the cerebrum; they pass forwards and upwards to the testes, beneath which they ascend to the crura cerebri and optic thalami, forming part of the diverging cere- bral fibres; each peduncle forms part of the lateral boundary of the fourth ventricle, and is connected with its fellow of the opposite side by the valve of Vieussens. The peduncles are continuous behind with the folia of the inferior vermiform process, and with the white fibres in the interior of the corpus den- tatum. Beneath the corpora quadrigemina, the innermost fibres of each peduncle decussate with each other, sg that some fibres from the right half of the cerebellum are continued to tie left half of the cerebrum. Fig. 272.—Vertical Section of the Cerebellum.