Organs of Digestion. The Apparatus for tlie digestion of the food consists of the alimentary canal, and of certain accessory organs. The alimentary canal is a muscnlo-membranous tube, about thirty feet in length, extending from the mouth to the anus, and lined throughout its entire extent by mucous membrane. It has received different names in the various parts of its course: at its commencement, which comprises the mouth, we find every provision for the mechanical division of the food (mastication), and for its- admixture with a peculiar fluid secreted by the salivary glands (insalivation); beyond this are the pharynx and the oesophagus (the organs of deglutition), which convey the food into the stomach, that part of the alimentary canal in which the principal chemi- cal changes occur ; in that organ the reduction and solution of the food take place; by its admixture with the bile and pancreatic fluid, in the small intestines, the nutritive principles of the food (the chyle) are separated from that portion which passes into the large intestine, and which is expelled from the system. Mouth. Pharynx. (Esophagus. Stomach. Teeth. Alimentary Canal. Small intestine Large intestine Accessory Organs. i Parotid. Salivary glands •< Submaxillary, ( Sublingual. Duodenum. Jejunum. Ileum. Caecum. Colon. Eectum. Liver. Pancreas. Spleen. I The Mouth (fig. 319) is placed at the commencement of the alimentary canal; it is a nearly oval-shaped cavity, in which the mastication of the food takes place. It is bounded, in front, by the lips; laterally^ by the cheeks and alveolar process of the upper and lower jaw; above, by the hard palate and teeth of the upper jaw; below, by the tongue, the mucous membrane stretched between the under surface of this organ and the inner surface of the jaws, and by the teeth of the lower jaw; behind, by the soft palate and fauces. The mucous membrane lining the mouth is continuous with the integument at the free margin of the lips, and with the mucous lining of the fauces behind; it is of a pink rose tinge during life, and very thick where it covers the hard parts bounding this cavity. The Lips are two fleshy folds, which surround the orifice of the mouth, formed externally of integument, internally of mucous membrane, between which are found the Orbicularis oris muscle, the coronary vessels, some nerves, areolar tissue, fat, and numerous small labial glands. The inner surface of each lip is connected in the middle line to the gum of the corresponding jaw by a fold of mucous mem- brane, the frsenum labii superioris and freenum lahii inferioris, the former being the larger of the two. The labial glands are situated between the mucous membrane and the Orbicularis 6^8