BRANCHES OF THE RADIAL. 413 Fig. 220.—Ulnar and Radial Arteries. Deep View. Ariteriar Vlnrtr Ee current ■Posterior Ulnar The prmceps polUcis arises from the radial just as it turns inwards to tlie deep part of the hand; it descends between the Abductor indicis and Adductor pollicis, along the ulnar side of the meta- carpal bone of the thumb, to the base of the first phalanx, where it divides into two branches, which run along the sides of the palmar aspect of the thumb, and form an arch on the under surface of the last phalanx, from which branches are distributed to the integument and cellular membrane of the thumb. The radialis indicis arises close to the preceding, descends between the Abductor indicis and Adductor pollicis, and runs along the radial side of the index-fins-er to its ex- tremity, where it anastomoses with the collateral digital artery from the superficial palmar arch. At the lower border of the Adductor pollicis this vessel anastomoses with the princeps pollicis, and gives a communicating branch to the super- ficial palmar arch. The perfor antes, three in number, pass backwards between the heads of the last three Dorsal interossei muscles, to inosculate Avith the dor- sal interosseous arteries. The palmar interossese, three or four in number, are branches of the deep palmar arch; they run for- wards upon the Interossei muscles, and anastomose at the clefts of the fingers with the digital branches of the superficial arch. Ulnar Artery. ner^ branch of J71n:!r The Ulnar Artery, the larger of the two subdivisions of the bra- chial, commences a little below the bend of the elbow, and crosses the inner side of the forearm obliquely to the commencement of its lower half; it then runs along its ulnar border to the wrist, crosses the annu- lar ligament on the radial side of the pisiform bone and passes across the palm of the hand, forming the superficial palmar arch, which terminates by inosculating with the superficialis volte. Relations in the Forearm. In its upper half, it is deeply seated, being covered by all the superficial Flexor muscles, excepting the Flexor carpi ulnaris; crossed by the median nerve, which, for about an inch lies to its inner side; and it lies upon the Brachialis anticus and Flexor profundus digitorum muscles. In the lower half of the forearm, it lies upon the Flexor profundus, being covered by the integument, and the superficial and deep fascise, and is placed between the Flexor