MUSCLES AND TASCIiE. 256 process; behind, the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid muscle. The boundaries of the posterior triangle are, in front, the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid; below, the upper border of the clavicle; behind, the anterior margin of the Trapezius. The anterior edge of the muscle forms a very prominent ridge beneath the skin, which it is important to notice, as it forms a guide to the surgeon in making the necessary incisions for ligature of the common carotid artery, and for cesoph- agotomy. Relations. By its superficial surface, Avith the integument and Platysma, from which it is separated by the external jugular vein, the superficial branches of the cervical plexus, and the anterior layer of the deep cervical fascia. By its deep surface, it rests on the sterno-clavicular articulation, the deep layer of the cervical fascia, the Sterno-hyoid, Sterno-thyroid, Omo-hyoid, the posterior belly of the Digastric, Levator anguli scapulae, the Splenius and Scaleni muscles. Below, with the lower part of the common carotid artery, internal jugular vein, pneumogastric, descendens noni, and communicans noni nerves, and with the deep lymphatic glands; with the spinal accessory nerve, which pierces its upper third, the cervical plexus, the occipital artery, and a part of the parotid gland. Nerves. The Platysma myoides is supplied by the facial and superficial cer- vical nerves, the Sterno-cleido-mastoid by the spinal accessory and deep branches of the cervical plexus. Actions. The Platysma myoides produces a slight wrinkling of the surface of the skin of the neck, in a vertical direction, when the entire muscle is brought into action. Its anterior portion, the thickest part of the muscle, depresses the lower jaw; it also serves to draw doAvn the lower lip and angle of the mouth on each side, being one of the chief agents in the expression of melancholy. The Sterno-mastoid muscles, when both are brought into action, serve to depress the head upon the neck, and the neck upon the chest. Either muscle, acting singly, flexes the head, and combined with the Splenius draws it towards the shoulder of the same side, and rotates it so as to carry the face towards the opposite side. Surgical Anatoviy. The relations of the sternal and clavicular parts of the Sterno-mastoid should be carefully examined, as the surgeon is sometimes required to divide one or both portions of the muscle in wryneck. One variety of this distortion is produced by spasmodic contraction or rigidity of the Sterno-mastoid; the head being carried down towards the shoulder of the same side, and the face turned to the opposite side, and fixed in that position. When all other reme- dies for the relief of this disease have failed, subcutaneous division of the muscle is resorted to. This is performed by introducing a long narrow bistoury beneath itj about half an inch above its origin, and dividing it from behind forwards whilst the muscle is put well upon the stretch. There is seldom any difficulty in dividing the sternal portion. ■ In dividing the clavicular portion care must be taken to avoid wounding the external jugular vein, which runs parallel with the posterior border of the muscle in this situation. Dissection. The muscles in this region may be exposed by removing the deep fascia from the front of the neck. In order to see the entire extent of the Omo-hyoid, it is necessary to divide the Sterno-mastoid at its centre, and turn its ends aside, and to detach the Trapezius from the clavicle and scapula, if this muscle has been previously dissected; but not otherwise. The Sterno-hyoid is a thin, narrow, riband-like muscle, which arises from the inner extremity of the clavicle, and the upper and posterior pai't of the first piece of the sternum; and, passing upwards and inwards, is inserted, by short tendinous fibres, into the lower border of the body of the os hyoides. This 2. Infea-hyoid EegiojST (figs. 153 and 154). Bepeessors of the Os Hyoides and Laeynx. Sterno-hyoid. Sterno-thyroid. Thyro-hyoid. Omo-hyoid.