VEINS. It receives numerous large branches from tlie back part of tbe leg, and communicates with the deep veins on the dorsum of the foot, and Fig. 245.—External or Short Saphe- behind the outer malleolus. This vein has only . iious Vein. two valves. One of which is always found near its termination in the popliteal vein. The Dee]} Veins of the lower extremity accom- pany the arteries and their branches, and are called the vense comites of those vessels. The external and internal plantar veins unite to form the posterior tibial They accompany the posterior tibial artery, and are joined by the pero- neal veins. The anterior tihial veins are formed by a continua- tion upwards of the venae dorsales pedis. They perforate the interosseous membrane at the upper part of the leg, and form, by their junction with the posterior tibial, the popliteal vein. The valves in the deep veins are very nume- rous. The Popliteal Vein is formed by the junction of the venae comites of the anterior and posterior tibial vessels; it ascends through the popliteal space to the tendinous aperture in the Adductor magnus, where it becomes the femoral vein. In the lower part of its course, it is placed internal to the artery; between the heads of the Gastrocnemius, it is superficial to that vessel; but above the knee- joint, it is close to its outer side. It receives the sural veins from the Gastrocnemius muscle, the articular veins, and the external saphenous. The valves in this vein are usually four in number. The Femoral Vein accompanies the femoral artery through the upper two-thirds of the thigh. In the lower part of its course, it lies external to the artery ; higher up, it is behind it; and beneath Poupart's ligament, it lies to its inner side, and on the same plane as that vessel. It receives numerous muscular branches; the profunda femoris joins it about an inch and a half below Poupart's ligament, and near its termination the internal saphenous vein. The valves in this vein are four or five in number. The External Iliac Vein commences at the termination-of the femoral, be- neath the crural arch, and, passing upwards along the brim of the pelvis, terminates opposite the sacro-iliac symphysis, by uniting with the internal iliac to form the common iliac vein. On the right side, it lies at first along the inner side of the external iliac artery, but, as it passes upwards, gradually inclines behind it. On the left side, it lies altogether on the inner side of the artery. It receives, imme- diately above Poupart's ligament, the epigastric and circumflex iliac veins. It has no valves. The Internal Iliac Vein is formed by the venae comites of the branches of the internal iliac artery, the umbilical arteries excepted. It receives the blood from the exterior of the pelvis by the gluteal, sciatic, internal pudic, and obturator veins; and from the organs in the cavity of the pelvis by the hemorrhoidal and vesico-prostatic plexuses in the male, and the uterine and vaginal plexuses in the female. The vessels forming these plexuses are remarkable for their large size, their frequent anastomoses, and the number of valves which they contain. The internal iliac vein lies at first on the inner side and then behind the internal iliac