ARTICULATIONS. 186 Ginglymus or Hinge-joint (ytyy^v^tos, a hinge). In this form of joint, tlie articular surfaces are moulded to each other in such a manner as to permit motion only in two directions, forwards and backwards, the extent of motion at the same time "being considerable. The articular surfaces are connected together by strong lateral ligaments, which form their chief bond of union. The most perfect forms of ginglymi are the elbow and ankle; the knee is less perfect, as it allows a slight degree of rotation in certain positions of the limb: there are also the metatarso- phalangeal and phalangeal joints in the lower extremity, and the metacarpo-pha- langeal and phalangeal joints in the upper extremity. Diarthrosis rotatorius or Lateral Ginglymus. Where the movement is limited to rotation, the joint is formed by a pivot-like process turning within a ring, or the ring on the pivot, the ring being formed partly of bone, partly of ligament. In the articulation of the odontoid process of the axis with the atlas, the ring is formed in front by the anterior arch of the atlas; behind, by the transverse liga- ment : here the ring rotates round the odontoid process. In the superior radio- ulnar articulation, the ring is formed partly by the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna; in the rest of its extent, by the orbicular ligament: here the head of the radius rotates Avithin the ring. Subjoined, in a tabular form, are the names, distinctive characters, and examples of the different kinds of articulations. Sutura. Arti- /culation by pro- cesses and indent-/ ations interlocked together. Synarthrosis or Im- movable Joint. Sur- faces separated by fibrous membrane, no intervening synovial cavity, and immova- bly connected with each other. Example: bones of the cranium and face, except lower jaw. S. Dentata, having ^tooth-like processes. Interparietal su- ture. *S'. Serrata, having Sutura vera ^serrated edges, like \ (true), articulation /the teeth of a saw. by indented bor-( Interfrontal su- ders. iture. S. Limhosa, having fbevelled margins, and dentated pro- cesses. Fronto-parietal su- ture. (S. Squamosa, form- ed by thin bevelled margins overlapping each other. Temporo - parietal (false), articulation ysuture. by rough surfaces. ^ S. Harmonia, form- ed by the apposition of contiguous rough surfaces. Intermaxillary su- ture. Schindylesis. Articulation formed by the reception of a thin plate of bone into a fissure of another. Eostrum of sphenoid with vomer. Gomphosis. An articulation formed by the insertion of a conical process into a socket. Tooth in socket.