THE TONGUE. 609 or tip, thin and narrow, is directed forwards against the inner surface of the lower incisor teeth. The under surface of the tongue is connected with the lower jaw by the Genio-hjo-glossi muscles; from its sides, the mucous mem- brane is reflected to the inner surface of the gums; and, in front, a distinct fold of that membrane, the fr^num linguae, is formed beneath its under surface. The tip of the tongue, part of its under surface, its aides, and dorsum, are free. The dorsum of the tongue is convex, marked along the middle line by a raphe, which divides it into two symmetrical halves; and this raphe terminates behind, about half an inch frota the base of the organ, a little in front of a deep mucous follicle, the foramen csecum. The anterior two-thirds of this surface are rough, and covered with papillse; the posterior third is more smooth, and covered by the projecting orifices of numerous muciparous glands. The mucous membrane invests the entire extent of the free surface of the tongue. On the under surface of the organ it is thin and smooth, and may be traced on either side of the fraenum, through the ducts of the submaxillary glands; and between the sides of the tongue and the lower jaw, through the ducts of the sublingual glands. On being traced over the borders of the organ, it gradually assumes its papillary character. The mucous membrane of the tongue consists of structures analogous to those of the skin, namely, a cutis or corium, supporting numerous papillse, and covered, as well as the papillae, with epithelium. The cutis is tough, but thinner and less dense than in most parts of the skin, and is composed of similar tissue. It contains the ramifications of the numerous vessels and nerves from which the papillae are supplied, and affords insertion to all the intrinsic muscular fibres of the organ. Th^ papillte of the tongue are thickly distributed over the whole of its upper surface, giving to it its characteristic roughness. They are more prominent than those of the skin, which is chiefly due to their not being concealed imder the epithelium, but from their standing out prominently from the surface like the villi of the intestine. The principal varieties are the papillae maximae (circumvallatae), papillae mediae (fungiformes), and papillae minimte (conicte and filiformes). The p)apillae maximse (circumvallatae) are of large size, and vary from eight to ten in number. They are situated at the back part of the dorsum of the tongue, near its base, forming a row on each side, which, running backwards and inwards, meet in the middle line, like the two lines of the letter A inverted. Each papilla consists of a central flattened projection of mucous membrane, circular in form, from to of an inch wide, attached to the bottom of a cup-shaped depression of the mucous membrane; the exposed part being covered with numerous small papillse. The cup-shaped depression forms a kind of fossa round the papilla, having a circular margin of about the same elevation, covered with smaller papillae. The fissure corresponding to the papilla, where the two lines of the circumvallate papillae meet, is so large and deep, that the name foramen csecum has been applied to it. In the smaller papillae, the fissure exists only on one side. The papillse mediee (fungiformes), more numerous than the preceding, are scattered irregularly and sparingly over the dorsum of the tongue, but are found chiefly at its sides and. apex. They are easily recognized, among the other papillae, by their large size, rounded eminences, and deep red color. They are narrow at their attachment to the tongue, but broad and rounded at their free extremities, and covered with secondary papillae. Their epithelium investment is very thin. The piapiilse minimse (conicae et filiformes) cover the anterior two-thirds of the dorsum of the tongue. They are very minute, more or less conical or filiform in shape, and arranged in lines corresponding in direction with the two rows of the papillae circumvallatae, excepting at the apex of the organ, where their direction is transverse. The filiform papillae are of a whitish tint, owing to the thickness and density of their epithelium; they are covered with numerous secondary papillje, are firmer and more elastic" than the papillas of mucous membrane generally, and often inclose minute hairs.