and Fasciae. The Muscles 235 The Muscles are the active organs of locomotion. Tliey are formed of bundles )f reddish, fibres, consisting chemically of fibrine, and endowed with the pro- 3erty of contractility. Two kinds of muscular tissue are found in the animal Dody, viz., that of voluntary or animal life, and that of involuntary or organic ife. The muscles of animal life {striped muscles) are capable of being either exerted )r controlled by the efforts of the will. They are composed of bundles of fibres nclosed in a delicate web of areolar tissue. Each bundle consists of numerous mailer ones, inclosed in a similar fibro-areolar covering, and these again of primi- ive fasciculi. The primitive fasciculi consist of a number of filaments, inclosed in a tubular heath of transparent, elastic, and apparently homogeneous membrane, named by Bowman the " Sarcolemma." The primitive fasciculi are cylindriform or prismatic, rheir breadth varies in man from to of ^'^ inch, the average of the ma- ority being about ^^g; their length is not always in proportion to the length of he muscle, but depends on the arrangement of the tendons. This form of muscular ibre is especially characterized by being apparently marked with very fine, dark, )arallel lines or striae, which pass transversely round them, in curved or wavy )arallel lines, from ttj^cto- to ooo' of vcigYl apart. Other stri£e pass longitu- linally over the tubes, indicating the direction of the primitive fibrils of which he primitive fasciculus is composed. They are less distinct than the former. The primitive fibrils constitute the proper contractile tissue of the muscle. 5ach fibril is cylindriform, somewhat flattened, about tsttuo- of an inch in thick- less, and marked by transverse striae placed at the same distance from each other LS the striae on the surface of the fasciculus. Each fibril apparently consists of a lingle row of minute particles, named "sarcous elements" by Bowman, connected ogether like a string of beads. Closer examination, however, shows that the ilementary particles are little masses of pellucid substance, having a rectangular )utline, and appearing dark in the centre. These appearances would favor the luggestion that the elementary particles of which the fibrils are composed are )ossibly nucleated cells, cohering in a linear series, the transverse marks between hem corresponding to their line of junction. KoUiker, however, considers "the iarcous elements as artificial products, occasioned by the breaking up of the fibrils it the parts where they are thinner." This form of muscular fibre composes the whole of the voluntary muscles, all ;he muscles of the ear, those of the larynx, pharynx, tongue, and upper half of ihe oesophagus, the heart, and the walls of the large veins at the point where they )pen into it. The muscles of organic life {unstriped muscles) consist of flattened bands, or of jlongated, spindle-shaped fibres, flattened, of a pale color, from j^'g-g to jiVct of m inch broad, homogeneous in texture, having a finely mottled aspect, which sometimes appears granular, the granules being occasionally arranged in a linear series, so as to present a striated appearance. Each fibre contains a cylindrical ' The Muscles and Fasciae are described conjointly, in order that the student may consider the irrangement of the latter in his dissection of the former. It is rare for the student of anatomy n this country to have the opportunity of dissecting the fasciae separately; and it is for this "eason, as well as from the close connection that exists between the muscles and their investing iponeuroses, that they are considered together. Some general observations are first made on the anatomy of the muscles and fasciae, the special description being given in connection with the different regions.