* KNEE-JOINT. 225 slon beliind the spine of the tibia, and to the posterior extremity of the external semilunar fibro-cartilage; passing upwards, forwards, and inwards, it is inserted into the outer and fore part of the inner condyle of the femur. As it crosses the anterior crucial ligament, a fasciculus is given off from it, which blends with its ^^'S' ^'^"^'"^ posterior part. It is in relation, in front, with the anterior crucial ligament; behind, with the ligamentum posticum Winslowii. The Semilunar Fibro-cartilages (fig. 142) are two crescentic lamellie attached to the margins of the head of the tibia, serving to deepen its surface for articula- tion with the condyles of the femur. The circumference of each cartilage is thick and convex; the inner free border, thin and concave. Their upper surfaces are concave, and in relation with the condyles of the femur; their lower surfaces are flat, and rest upon the head of the tibia. Each cartilage covers nearly the outer two-thirds of the corresponding articular surface of the tibia, the inner third being uncovered; both surfaces are smooth, and invested by synovial membrane. The Internal Semilunar Fibro-cartilage is nearly semicircular in form, a little elongated from before backwards, and broader behind than in front; its convex border is united to the internal lateral ligament, and to the head of the tibia, by means of the coronary ligaments; its anterior extremity, thin and pointed, is firmly implanted into a depression in front of the inner articular surface of the tibia; its posterior extremity to the depression behind the spine, between the attach- ment of the external cartilage and posterior crucial ligament. The External Semilunar Fihro-cartilage forms nearly an entire circle, covering a larger portion of the articular surface than the internal one. It is grooved on its outer side, for the tendon of the Pop- liteus muscle. Its circumference is held in connection with the head of the tibia, by means of the coronary ligaments; and its two extremities are firmly im- planted in the depressions in front and behind the spine of the tibia. These ex- tremities, at their insertion, are interposed between the attachments of the internal cartilage. The external semilunar fibro- cartilage gives off from its anterior bor- der a fasciculus, which forms the trans- verse ligament. By its anterior extremity, it is continuous with the anterior crucial ligament. Its posterior extremity divides into three slips; two of these pass upwards and forwards, and are inserted into the outer side of the inner condyle, one in front, the other behind the posterior crucial ligament; the third fasciculus is inserted into the back part of the anterior crucial ligament. The Transverse Ligament is a band of fibres, which passes transversely be- 15 Fig. 142.—Head of Tibia, with Semilunai Cartilages, etc. Seen from above. Right Side.