OF THE MUSCLES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 35t making extension from the knee and ankle, the fragments may be brought into apposition. It is often necessary, however, in compound fracture, to remove a portion of the projecting bone with the saw before complete adapta^ tion can be effected. Fig. 204.—Fracture of the Fibula, with Displacement Fracture of the fibula, with displace- of the Tibia.—" Pott's Fracture. " meM of the tibia (fiig. 204), commonly known as "Pott's Fracture," is one of the most frequent injuries of the ankle- joint. The end of the tibia is displaced from the corresponding surface of the astragalus, the internal lateral ligament is ruptured, and the inner malleolus projects inwards beneath the integu- ment, which is tightly stretched over it, and in danger of bursting. The fibula is broken, usually from two to three inches above the ankle, and oc- casionally that portion of the tibia with which it is more directly connected below; the foot is everted by the action of the Peroneus longus, its inner border resting upon the ground, and, at the same time, the heel is drawn up by the muscles of the calf This injury may be at once reduced by flexing the leg at right angles with the thigh, which relaxes all the opposing muscles, and by making slight extension from the knee and ankle. For a detailed account of the Minute Anatomy of Muscle, reference should be made to the following sources of information: Quain's " Elements of Anatomy."—Kblliker's " Handbook of Human Microscopic Anatomy," before alluded to.—Todd and Bowman's " Physiological Ana- tomy."—To the article, " Muscle and Muscular Motion," by W. Bowman, in the Cyclopedia of Anatomy; and " On the Minute Structure of Voluntary Muscle," by the same author, in the Phil. Trans. 1840, 1841. On the Descriptive Anatomy of the Muscles, refer to Cruveilhier's "Anatomie Descriptive."— "Traits de Myologie et d'Angeiologie," by P. G. Theile, " Encyclopfedie Anatomique," Paris, 1843; »ud Henle's "Handbuch der Systematischen Anatomie," before alluded to.