642 ORGANS OF THE SENSES. The endolymj)h {liquor Scarjjse) is a limpid serous fluid, wliicli fills the mem- branous labyrinth; in composition, it closely resembles the perilymph. The otoliths are two small rounded bodies, consisting of a mass of minute crystalline grains of carbonate of lime, held together in a mesh of delicate fibrous tissue, and contained in the wall of the utricle and saccule, opposite the distribu- tion of the nerves. A calcareous material is also, according to Bowman, sparingly scattered in the cells lining the ampulla of each semicircular canal. The Arteries of the labyrinth are the internal auditory from the basilar or superior cerebellar, the stylo-mastoid from the posterior auricular, and, occasion- ally, branches from the occipital. The internal auditory divides at the bottom of the internal meatus into two branches, cochlear and vestibular. The cochlear branch subdivides into from twelve to fourteen twigs, which, traverse the canals in the modiolus, and are distributed, in the form of a capillary network, in the substance of the lamina spiralis. The vestibular branches accompany the nerves, and are distributed, in the form of a minute capillary network, in the substance of the membranous labyrinth. The Veins of the vestibule and semicircular canals accompany the arteries, and, receiving those of the cochlea at the base of the modiolus, terminate in the siaperior petrosal sinus. The Auditory nerve, the special nerve of the sense of hearing, divides, at the bottom of the internal auditory meatus, into two branches, the cochlear and vesti- bular. The trunk of the nerve, as well as the branches, contains numerous ganglion cells with caudate prolongations. The Vestibular nerve, the most posterior of the two, divides into three branches, superior, middle, and inferior. The superior vestibular branch, the largest, divides into numerous filaments, which pass through minute openings at the upper and back part of the cul-de-sac at the bottom of the meatus, and, entering the vestibule, are distributed to the utricle, and to the ampulla of the external and superior semicircular canals. The middle vestibular branch consists of numerous filaments, which enter the vestibule by a smaller cluster of foramina, placed below those above mentioned, and which correspond to the bottom of the fovea hemispherica; they are dis- tributed to the saccule. The inferior and smallest branch passes backwards in a canal behind the foramina for the nerves of the saccule, and is distributed to the ampulla of the posterior semicircular canal. The nervous filaments enter the ampullary enlargement at a deep depression seen on their external surface, and a corresponding elevation is seen within, the nerve fibres ending in loops, and in free extremities. In the utricle and saccule, the nerve fibres spread out, some blending with the calcareous matter, others radiat- ing on the inner surface of the wall of each cavity, becoming blended with a layer of nucleated cells, and terminating in a thin fibrous film. The Cochlear nerve divides into numerous filaments at the base of the modiolus, which ascend along its canals, and then, bending outwards at right angles, pass between the plates of the bony lamina spiralis, close to its tympanic surface. Between the plates of the spiral lamina, the nerves form a plexus, which contains ganglion cells; and from the margin of the osseous zone, branches from this plexus are distributed to the membranous part of the septum, where they are arranged in small, conical-shaped bundles, parallel with one another. The filaments which supply the apical portion of the lamina spiralis are conducted to this part through the tubulus centralis modioli.