MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM. along tlie canal of tlie urethra. The middle fibres are supjoosed, by Krause, to assist in the erection of the corpus spongiosum, by compressing the erectile tissue of the bulb. The anterior fibres, according to Tyrrel, also contribute to the erection of the penis, as they are inserted into, and continuous with, the fascia penis, compressing the dorsal vein during the contraction of the muscle. Fig. 391.—The Superficial Muscles and Vessels of the Peiineiim. The Erector Penis covers the unattached part of the crus penis. It is an elongated muscle, broader in the middle than at either extremity, and situated on either side of the lateral boundary of the perineum. It arises by tendinous and fleshy fibres from the inner surface of the tuberosity of the ischium, behind the crus penis, from the surface of the crus, and from the adjacent portion of the ramus of the pubes. From these points, fleshy fibres succeed, which end in an aponeurosis which is inserted into the sides and under surface of the crus penis. This muscle compresses the crus penis, and thus serves to maintain this organ erect. The Transversus Perinei is a narrow muscular slip, which passes more or less transversely across the back part of the perineal space. It arises by a small tendon from the inner side of the ascending ramus of the ischium, and, passing obliquely forwards and inwards, is inserted into the central tendinous point of the perineum, joining in this situation with the muscle of the opposite side, the Sphincter ani behind, and the Accelerator urintB in front. Between the muscles just examined, a triangular space exists, bounded internally by the Accelerator urinae, externally by the Erector penis, the base corresponding to the Transversus perinei. The floor of this space is formed by the triangular ligament of the urethra (deep perineal fascia), and, running from Ijehind forwards in it, are the superficial perineal vessels and nerves, the transversus perinei artery coursing along the posterior boundary of the space, resting upon the Transversus perinei muscle.