NASAL FOSS^. G13 alae of tlie nose, it is thicker, and more firmly adherent. It is furnished with a large number of sebaceous follicles, the orifices of which are usually very distinct. The mucous membrane lining the interior of the nose is continuous with the skin externally, and with that which lines the nasal fossae within. The arteries of the nose are the lateralis nasi from the facial, and the nasal artery of the septum from the superior coronary, which supplies the alse and septum; the sides and dorsum being supplied from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic and infra-orbital. The veins of the nose terminate in the facial and ophthalmic. The nerves of the nose are branches from the facial, infra-orbital, and infra- trochlear, and a filament from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic. I Nasal Foss^. The Nasal Fossse are two irregular cavities, situated in the middle of the face, and extending from before backwards. They open in front by the two anterior nares, and terminate behind in the pharynx, by the posterior nares. The boundaries of these cavities, and the openings which are connected with them, as they exist in the skeleton, have been already described (p. 109). The mucous membrane lining the nasal fossas is called jntuitary, from the nature of its secretion, or Schneiderian from Schneider, the first anatomist who showed that the secretion proceeded from the mucous membrane, and not, as was formerly imagined, from the brain. It is intimately adherent to the periosteum or perichondrium over which it lies. It is continuous externally with the skin, through the anterior nares, and with the mucous membrane of the pharynx, through the posterior nares. From the nasal fossae its continuity may be traced with the conjunctiva, through the nasal duct and lachrymal canals; with the lining membrane of the tjnnpanum and mastoid cells, through the Eustacliian tube; and with the frontal, ethmoidal, and sphenoidal sinuses, and the antrum maxillare, through the several openings in the meatuses. The mucous membrane is thickest, and most vascular, over the turbinated bones. It is also thick over the septum; but, in the intervals between the spongy bones, and on the floor of the nasal fossas, it is very thin. "Where it lines the various sinuses and the antrum maxillare, it is thin and pale. The surface of the membrane is covered with a layer of tessellated epithelium, at the upper part of the nasal fossae, corresponding with the distribution of the olfactory nerve, but ciliated throughout the rest of its extent, excepting near the aperture of the nares. This membrane is also provided with a nearly continuous layer of branched mucous glands, the ducts of which open upon its surface. They are most nume- rous at the middle and back parts of the nasal fossae, and largest at the lower and back part of the septum. Owing to the great thickness of this membrane, the nasal fossae are much narrower, and the turbinated bones, especially the lower ones, appear larger, and more prominent, than in the skeleton. From the same circumstance, also, the various apertures communicating with the meatuses are either narrowed or completely closed. In the superior meatus, the aperture of communication with the posterior ethmoidal cells is considerably diminished in size, and the spheno-palatine foramen completely covered in. In the middle meatus, the opening of the infundibulum is partially hidden by a projecting fold of mucous membrane, and the orifice of the antrum is contracted to a small circular aperture, much narrower than in the skeleton. In the inferior meatus, the orifice of the nasal duct is partially hidden by either a single or double valvular mucous fold, and the anterior palatine canal either completely closed in, or a tubular cul-de-sac of mucous membrane is continued a short distance into it.