SUBCLAVIAN. 893 Relations. It is covered, in front, by tlie integument, Platysma, Sterno-mastoicl, cervical fascia, and bj the phrenic nerve, which is separated from, the artery by the Scalenus anticus muscle. Behind, it is in relation with the Middle scalenus. Above, with the brachial plexus of nerves. Below, with the pleura. The sub- clavian vein lies below and in front of the artery, separated from it by the Scalenus anticus. • Plan of Eelations of Second Poktion of Subclavian Arteey. In front. Platysma. Scalenus anticus. Sterno-mastoid. Phrenic nerve. Cervical fascia. Subclavian Vein. Above. Brachial plexus. Belou\ Pleura. Behind. Middle scalenus. The Third Portion of the Subclavian Artery passes downwards and outwards from the outer margin of the Scalenus anticus to the lower border of the first rib, where it becomes the axillary artery. This portion of the vessel is the most superficial, and is contained in a triangular space, the base of which is formed in front by the Anterior scalenus, and the two sides by the Omo-hyoid above and the clavicle below. Relations. It is covered, in front, by the integument, the superficial fascia, the Platysma, deep fascia; and by the clavicle, the Subcldvius muscle, and the supra- scapular artery and vein; the clavicular descending branches of the cervical plexus and the nerve to the Subclavius pass vertically downwards in front of the artery. The external jugular vein crosses it at its inner side, and receives the suprascapular and transverse cervical veins, which occasionally form a plexus in front of it. The subclavian vein is below the artery, lying close behind the clavicle. Beliind, it lies on the Middle scalenus muscle. Above it, and to its outer side, are the brachial plexus and Omo-hyoid muscle. Beloiv, it rests on the outer surface of the first rib. Plan of Eelations of Third Portion of Subclavian Artery. In front. Integument, fascisE, and Platysma. The external jugular, suprascapular, and transverse cervical veins. Descending branches of cervical plexus. Subclavius muscle, suprascapular artery, and clavicle Above. / \ Beloiv. Brachial plexus. / 1 First rib. Omo-hyoid. Behind. Scalenus medius. Peculiarities. The subclavian arteries vary in their origin, their course, and in the height to which they rise in the neck. The origin of the right subclavian from the innominate takes place, in some cases, above the sterno-clavicular articulation ; more frequently in the cavity of the thorax, below that joint. Or