INTERNAL MAXILLARY. 379 The anterior auricular tranches are distributed to the anterior portion of the pinna, the lobule, and part of the external meatus, anastomosing with branches of the posterior auricular. Surgical Anatomy. It occasionally happens that the surgeon is called upon to perform the operation of arteriotomy upon this vessel in cases of inflammation of the eye or brain. Under these circumstances, the anterior branch is the one usually selected. If the student will con- sider the relations of the trunk of this vessel as it crosses the zygomatic arch, with the surround- ing structures, he will observe that it is covered by a thick and dense fascia, crossed by one or two veins, and accompanied by branches of the facial and temporo-auricular nerves. Bleeding- should not be performed in this situation, as much difficulty may arise from the dense fascia covering this vessel preventing a free flow of blood, and considerable pressure is requisite after- wards to repress it. Again, a varicose aneurism may be formed by the accidental opening of one of the veins covering it; or severe neuralgic pain may arise from the operation implicating one of the nervous filaments which accompany the artery. The anterior branch is, on the contrary, subcutaneous, is a large vessel, and as readily com- pressed as any other portion of the artery; it should consequently always be selected for the operation. The" Internal Maxillary, the larger of the two terminal branches of the external carotid, passes inwards, at right angles from that vessel, to the inner side of the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, to supply the deep structures of the face. At its origin, it is imbedded in the substance of the parotid gland, being on a level with the lower extremity of the lobe of the ear. In the first part of its course (maxillary portion), the artery passes horizon- tally fprwards and inwards, between the ramus of the jaw and the internal late- ral ligament. The artery here lies parallel with the auriculo-temporal nerve; it. crosses the inferior dental nerve, and lies beneath the narrow portion of the Ex- ternal pterygoid muscle. In the second part of its course (pterygoid portion), it ascends obliquely for- wards and upwards upon the outer surface of the External pterygoid muscle, being covered by the ramus of the lower jaw, and lower part of the Temporal muscle. In the third part of its course (spheno-maxillary portion), it approaches the superior maxillary bone, and enters the spheno-maxillary fossa, in the interval between the processes of origin of the External pterygoid, where it lies in rela- tion with Meckel's ganglion, and gives off its terminal branches. Peculiarities. Occasionally, this artery passes between the two Pterygoid muscles. The ves- sel in this case passes forwards to the interval between the processes of origin of the External pterygoid, in order to reach the maxillary bone. Sometimes the vessel escapes from beneath the External pterygoid by perforating the middle of this muscle. The branches of this vessel may be divided into three groups, corresponding with its three divisions. 1. Branches from the Maxillary Portion, Tympanic. Small meningeal. Middle meningeal. Inferior dental. The tympanic branch passes upwards behind the articulation of the lower ja-w-," enters the tympanum through the fissura Glaseri, supplies the Laxator tympani, and ramifies upon the membrana tympani, anastomosing with the stylo-mastoid and Vidian arteries. The middle meningeal is the largest of the branches which supply the dura mater. It arises from the internal maxillary between the internal lateral ligament and the neck of the jaw, and ascends vertically upwards to the foramen spinosum m the spinous process of the sphenoid bone. "^On entering the cranium, it divides into two branches, an anterior and a posterior. The anterior branch, the larger, crosses the great ala of the sphenoid, and reaches the groove, or canal, in the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone; it then divides into branches which