MALE GENERATIVE ORGANS. Fig. 371.—The Testis in Situ ; the Tunica Vaginalis having been laid open. Artery of Cord The intercolumnar fascia is a thin membrane, derived from the margin of the pillars of the external abdominal ring, during the descent of the testis in the foetus, being prolonged downwards around the surface of the cord and testis. It is separated from the dartos by loose areolar tissue, which allows of considerable movement of the latter upon it, but is intimately connected with the succeeding layer. The cremasteric fascia consists of scattered bundles of muscular fibres ( Gremaster muscle), derived from the lower border of the Internal oblique muscle, during the descent of the testis. The fascia "proipria is a thin membranous layer, which loosely invests the surface of the cord. It is a continuation downwards of the infundibuliform pro- cess of the fascia transversalis, and is also derived during the descent of the testis in the foetus. The tunica vaginalis is described more appropriately as one of the proper coverings of the testis. A more detailed account of the coverings just described may be found in the description of the surgical anatomy of inguinal hernia. Proper coverings or investments of the Testis. The testis is invested by three tunics, the tunica vaginalis, tunica albu- ginea, and tunica vasculosa. The Tunica Vaginalis is the serous covering of the testis. It is a pouch of serous membrane, derived from the peri- toneum during the descent of the testis, in the foetus, from the abdomen into the scrotum. After its descent, that portion of the pouch which extends from the internal ring to near the upper part of the gland becomes obliterated, the lower portion remaining as a shut sac, which invests the outer surface of the testis, and is reflected on the internal surface of the scrotum; hence it may be described as consisting of a visceral and parietal por- tion. The visceral portion {tunica vaginalis propria) covers the outer surface of the testis, as well as the epididymis, con- necting the latter to the testis by means of a distinct fold. From the posterior border of the gland, it is reflected on to the internal surface of the scrotum. The parietal portion of the serous membrane {tunica vaginalis reflexa) is far more extensive than the visceral portion, extending upwards for some distance in front, and on the inner side of the cord, and reaching below the testis. The inner surface of the tunica vaginalis is free, smooth, and covered by a layer of squamous epithelium. The interval between the visceral and parietal layers of this mem- brane constitutes the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. ' The Tunica Alhugiyiea is the fibrous covering of the testis. It is a dense fibrous membrane, of a bluish-white color, composed of bundles of Avhite fibrous tissue, which interlace in every direction. Its outer surface is covered by the tunica vaginalis, except along its posterior border, and at the points of attachment of the epididymis ; hence the tunica albuginea is usually considered as a fibro-serous membrane, like the dura mater and pericardium. This membrane surrounds the glandular structure of the testicle, and, at its posterior and upper border, is reflected into the interior of the gland, forming an incomplete vertical septum, called the mediastinum testis {corpus Highmorianum). The mediastinum testis extends from the upper, nearly to the lower, border of <he gland, and is wider above than below. From the front and sides of this