423 SUPERIOR MESENTERIC. of the stomach, between the layers of the great omentum, anastomosing about the middle of the lower border of this organ with the gastro-epiploica sinistra from the splenic artery. This vessel gives off numerous branches, some of which ascend to supply both surfaces of the stomach, whilst others descend to supply the great omentum. The pancreatico-duodenalis descends along the contiguous margins of the duode- num and pancreas. It supplies both these organs, and anastomoses with the inferior pancreatico-duodenal branch of the superior mesenteric artery. In ulceration of the duodenum, which frequently occurs in connection with severe burns, this artery is often involved, and death may occur from hemorrhage into the intestinal canal. The cystic artery, usually a branch of the right hepatic, passes upwards and forwards along the neck of the gall-bladder, and divides into two branches, one of which ramifies on its free surface, the other between it and the substance of the liver. The Splenic Aeteey, in the adult, is the largest of the three branches of the coeliac axis, and is remarkable for the extreme tortuosity of its course. It passes horizontally to the left side behind the upper border of the pancreas, accompanied by the splenic vein, which lies below it; and, on arriving near the spleen, divides into branches, some of which enter the hilus of that organ to be distributed to its structure, whilst others are distributed to the great end of the stomach. The branches of this vessel are the Pancreaticse parvse. Grastric (Vasa brevia), Pancreatica magna. Gastro-epiploica sinistra. ^]xQ pancreaticse are numerous small branches derived from the splenic as it runs behind the upper border of the pancreas, supplying its middle and left parts. One of these, larger than the rest, is given off from the splenic near the left extremity of the pancreas; it runs from left to right near the posterior surface of the gland, following the course of the pancreatic duct, and is called the pancreatica magna. These vessels anastomose with the pancreatic branches of the pancreatico- duodenal arteries. The gastric {vasa brevia) consist-of from five to seven small branches, which arise either from the termination of the splenic artery, or from its terminal branches; and passing from left to right, between the layers of the gastro-splenic omentum, are distributed to the great curvature of the stomach; anastomosing with branches of the gastric and gastro-epiploica sinistra arteries. The gastro-epiploica sinistra, the largest branch of the splenic, runs from left to right along the great curvature of the stomach, between the layers of the great omentum, and anastomoses with the gastro-epiploica dextra. In its cotirse, it distributes several branches to the stomach, which ascend upon both surfaces; others descend to supply the omentum. Superior Mesenteric Artery. In order to expose this vessel, raise the great omentum and transverse colon, draw down the small intestines, and, if the peritoneum is divided where the transverse meso-colon and mesentery join, this artery will be exposed just as it issues beneath the lower border of the pancreas. The Superior Mesenteric Artery (fig. 225) supplies the whole length of the small intestine, except the first part of the duodenum ; it also supplies the ciecum, ascending and transverse colon. It is a vessel of large size, arising from the fore part of the aorta, about a quarter of an inch below the coeliac axis; being covered, at its origin, by the splenic vein and pancreas. It passes forwards, between the pancreas and transverse portion of the duodenum, crosses in front of this portion of the intestine, and descends between the layers of the mesentery to the right iliac fossa, where it terminates considerably diminished in size. In its course it forms an arch, the convexity being directed forwards and downwards to the left side, the concavity backwards and upAvards to the right. It is accompanied by