INNOMINATE; COMMON CAROTID. 367 end of the clavicle; less frequently it divides below it. In the former class of cases, its length may exceed two inches; and, in the latter, be reduced to an inch or less. These are points of considerable interest for the surgeon to remember in connection with the operation of including this vessel in a ligature. Branches. The arteria innominata occasionally supplies a thyroid branch, the middle thyroid artery, which ascends along the front of the trachea to the thyroid gland; and sometimes, a thymic or bronchial branch. The left carotid is frequently joined with the innominate artery at its origin. Sometimes, there is no innominate artery, the right subclavian arising directly from the arch of the aorta. Position. When the aorta arches over to the right side, the innominate is directed to the left side of the neck, instead of the right. Sv/rgical Anatomy. Although the operation of tying the innominate artery has been per- formed by several surgeons, for aneurism of the right subclavian extending inwards as far as the Scalenus, in no instance has it been attended with success. An important fact has, however, been established, viz., that the circulation in the parts supplied by the artery can be supported after the operation ; a fact which cannot but encourage surgeons to have recourse to it whenever the urgency of the case may require it, notwithstanding that it must be regarded as peculiarly hazardous. The failure of the operation in those cases where it has been performed has depended on sub- sequent repeated secondary hemorrhage, or on inflammation of the adjoining pleural sac and lung. The main obstacles to its performance are, as the student will perceive from his dissection of this vessel, its deep situation behind and beneath the sternum, and the number of important structures which surround it in every part. In order to apply a ligature to this vessel, the patient is placed upon his back, with the shoulders raised, and the head bent a little backwards, so as to draw out the artery from behind the sternum into the neck. An incision two inches long is then made along the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid muscle, terminating at the sternal end of the clavicle. From this point, a second incision is to be carried about the same length along the upper border of the clavicle. The skin is to be dissected back, and the Platysma being exposed must be divided on a director: the sternal end of the Sterno-mastoid is now brought into view, and a director being passed beneath it, and close to its under surface, so as to avoid any small vessels, it must be divided transversely throughout the greater part of its attachment. Pressing aside any loose cellular tissue or vessels that may now appear, the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles will be exposed, and must be divided, a director being previously passed beneath them. The inferior thyroid veins now come into view, and must be carefully drawn either upwards or downwards, by means of a blunt hook. On no account should these vessels be divided, as it would add much to the difficulty of the operation, and endanger its ultimate success. After tearing through a strong fibro-cellular lamina, the right carotid is brought into view, and being traced downwards, the arteria innominata is arrived at. The left-vena innominata should now be depressed, the right vena innominata, the internal jugular vein, and pneumogastric nerve drawn to the right side, and a curved aneurism needle may then be passed around the vessel, close to its surface, and in a direction from below upwards and inwards ; care being taken to avoid the right pleural sac, the trachea, and cardiac nerves. The ligature should be applied to the artery as high as possible, in order to allow room between it and the aorta for the formation of a coagulum. It has been seen that the failure of this operation depends either upon repeated secondary hemorrhage, or inflammation of the pleural sae and lung. The importance of avoiding the thyroid plexus of veins during the primary steps of the operation, and the pleural sac whilst including the vessel in the ligature, should be most carefully attended to. Common Caeotid Akteeies. The common carotid arteries, althougli occupying a nearly similar position in the neck, differ in position, and, consequently, in their relations at their origin. The right carotid arises from the arteria innominata, behind the right sterno- clavicular articulation; the left from the highest part of the arch of the aorta. The left carotid is, consequently, longer and placed more deeply in the thorax. It will, therefore, be more convenient to describe first the course and relations of that portion of the left carotid which intervenes between the arch of the aorta and the left sterno-clavicular articulation (see fig. 205). The left carotid within the thorax passes obliquely outwards from the arch, of the aorta to the root of the neck. In front, it is separated from the first piece of the sternum by the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, the left innominate vein, and the remains of the thymus gland; hehind, it lies on the trachea, oeso-