TARSUS. The Cuboid. The Cuboid bone is placed on tlie outer side of the foot, in front of the os calcis, and behind the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. It is-of a pyramidal shape, its base being directed upwards and inwards, its apex downwards and outwards. It may be distinguished from the other tarsal bones, by the existence of a deep groove on its under surface, for the tendon of the Peroneus longus muscle. It presents for examination six surfaces; three articular, and three non-articular: the non-articular surfaces are the superior, inferior, and external. • The superior or dorsal surface, directed upwards and outwards, is rough, for the attachment of numerous ligaments. The inferior or plantar surface presents in front a deep groove, which runs obliquely from without, forwards and inwards; it lodges the tendon of the Peroneus longus, and is bounded behind by a promi- nent ridge, terminating externally in an eminence, thQ tuberosity of the cuboid, the surface of which presents a convex facet, for articulation with the sesamoid bone of the tendon contained in the groove. The ridge and surface of bone behind it are rough, for the attachment of the long and short plantar ligaments. The external surface, the smallest and narrowest of the three, presents a deep notch, formed by the commencement of the peroneal groove. The articular surfaces are the posterior, anterior, and internal. The posterior surface is smooth, triangular, concavo-convex, for articulation with the anterior surface of the os calcis. The anterior, of smaller size, but also irregularly trian- gular, is divided by a vertical ridge into two facets; the inner facet, quadrilateral in form, articulates with the fourth metatarsal bone; the outer one, larger and more triangular, articulates with the fifth metatarsal. The internal surface is broad, rough, irregularly quadrilateral, presenting at its middle and upper part a small oval facet, for articulation with the external cuneiform bone; and behind this, occasionally, a smaller facet, for articulation with the scaphoid; it is rough in the rest of its extent, for the attachment of strong interosseous ligaments. To ascertain to which foot it belongs, hold the bone so that its under surface, marked by the peroneal groove, looks downwards, and the large concavo-convex articular surface backwards, towards the holder; the narrow non-articular surface, marked by the commencement of the peroneal groove, will point to the side to which the bone belongs. Articulations. "With four bones: the os calcis, external cuneiform, and the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones; occasionally with the scaphoid. Attachment of Muscles. Part of the Flexor brevis pollicis. The Astragalus. The Astragalus (fig. 113), next to the os calcis, is the largest of the tarsal bones. It occupies the middle and upper part of the tarsus, supporting the tibia above, articulating with the malleoli on either side, resting below upon the os calcis, and joined in front to the scaphoid. This bone may easily be recognized by its large rounded head, the broad articular facet on its upper convex surface, and by the two articular facets separated by a deep groove on its under concave surface. It presents six surfaces for examination. The superior surface presents, behind, a broad smooth trochlear surface, for articulation with the tibia; it is broader in front than behind, convex from before backwards, slightly concave from side to side. In front of the trochlea is the upper surface of the neck of the astragalus, rough for the attachment of liga- ments. The inferior surface presents two articular facets separated by a deep groove. The groove runs obliquely forwards and outwards, becoming gradually broader and deeper in front: it corresponds with a similar groove upon the upper surface of the os calcis, and forms, when articulated with that bone, a canal, filled up in the recent state by the calcaneo-astragaloid interosseous ligament. Of the two articular facets, the posterior is the larger, of an oblong form, and deeply concave from side to side: the anterior, although nearly of equal length, is nar-