684 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. duodenum. The excretory duct of the lesser pancreas is called tlie ductus pan- creaticus minor; it opens into the main duct near the duodenum, and sometimes separately into that intestine, at a distance of an inch or more from the termination of the principal duct. The pancreatic duct, near the duodenum, is about the size of an ordinary quill; its walls are thin, consisting of two coats, an external fibrous and an internal mucous; the latter is thin, smooth, and furnished, near its termination, with a few scattered follicles. Sometimes the pancreatic duct is double, up to its point of entrance into the duodenum. The Structure of the pancreas closely resembles that of the salivary glands; but it is looser and softer in its texture. The fluid secreted by it is almost identical with saliva. Vessels and Nerves. The arteries of the pancreas are derived from the splenic, the pancreatico-duodenal branch of the hepatic, and the superior mesenteric. Its vei7is open into the splenic and superior mesenteric veins. Its lyrapliatics terminate in the lumbar glands. The nerves are filaments from the splenic plexus. The Spleen. The Spleen is usually classified together with the thyroid, supra-renal and thymus glands, as one of the ductless glands, from its possessing no excretory duct. It is of an oblong flattened form, soft, of very brittle consistence, highly vascular, of a dark bluish-red color, and situated in the left hypochondriac region, em- bracing the cardiac end of the stomach. It is invested by peritoneum, and connected with the stomach by the gastro-splenic omentum. Relations. Its external surface is convex, smooth, and in relation with the under surface of the Diaphragm, which separates it from the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs of the left side. The internal surface is slightly concave, and divided by a vertical fissure, the Mlus, into an anterior or larger, and a posterior or smaller portion. The hilus is pierced by several large, irregular apertures, for the entrance and exit of vessels and nerves. At the margins of the hilus, the two layers of peritoneum are reflected from the surface of the spleen on to the cardiac end of the stomach, forming the gastro-splenic omentum, which contains between its layers the splenic vessels and nerves, and the vasa brevia. The internal surface is in relation, in front, with the great end of the stomach; below, with the tail of the pancreas; and behind, with the left crus of the Diaphragm and corresponding supra-renal capsule. Its upper end, thick and rounded, is in relation with the Diaphragm, to which it is connected by a fold of peritoneum, the suspensory ligament. Its lower end is pointed; it is in relation with the left extremity of the trans- verse arch of the colon. Its anterior rnargin is free, rounded, and often notched, especially below. Its posterior margin is rounded, and lies in relation with the left kidney, to which it is connected by loose areolar tissue. The spleen is held in its position by two folds of peritoneum ; one, the gastro- splenic omentum, connects it with the stomach, and the other, the suspensory ligament, with the under surface of the Diaphragm. The size and weight of the spleen are liable to very extreme variations at different periods of life, in different individuals, and in the same individual under different conditions. In the adult, in whom it attains its greatest size, it is usually about five inches in length, three or four inches in breadth, and an inch or an inch and a half in thickness, and weighs about seven ounces. At hirth, its weight, in proportion to the entire body, is almost equal to what is observed in the adult, being as 1 to 350; whilst in the adult it varies from 1 to 320 to 1 to 400. In old age, the organ not only decreases in weight, but decreases considerably in pro-