625 APPENDAGES OP THE EYE. The anterior ciliary arteries, five or six in number, are branches of the muscular and lachrymal branches of the ophthalmic. They pierce the eyeball, at the anterior part of the sclerotic, immediately behind the margin of the cornea, and are distributed to the ciliary processes, some branches joining the greater vascular circle of the iris. The arteria centralis retinse has been already described. The veins, usually four in numbei", are formed mainly by branches from the surface of the choroid. They perforate the sclerotic, midway between the cornea and the optic nerve, and end in the ophthalmic vein. The nerves of the eyeball are the optic, the long ciliary nerves from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, and the short ciliary nerves from the ciliary ganglion. APPEJ>rDAGES OF THE EyE. The appendages of the eye [tutamina oculi) include the eyebrows, the eyelids, the conjunctiva, and the lachrymal apparatus, viz., the lachrymal gland, the lachrymal sac, and the nasal duct. The eyebrows (stipercilia) are two arched eminences of integument, which surmount the upper circumference of the orbit on each side, and support numerous short, thick hairs, directed obliquely on the surface. In structure, they consist of thickened integument, connected beneath with the Orbicularis palpebrarum, Corrugator supercilii, and Occipito-frontalis muscles. These muscles serve, by their action on this part, to control to a certain extent the amount of light admitted into the eye. The eyelids {paljiebrse) are two thin, movable folds, placed in front of the eye, protecting it from injury by their closure. The upper lid is the larger, the more movable of the two, and supplied by a separate elevator muscle, the Levator palpebrse superioris. When the eyelids are opened, an elliptical space {fissura palpebrarum) is left between their margins, the angles of which correspond to the junction of the upper and lower lids, and are called canthi. The outer canthus is more acute than the inner, and the lids here lie in close contact with the globe; but the inner canthus is prolonged for a short distance inwards, towards the nose, and the two lids are separated by a triangular space, the lacus lacryraalis. At the commencement of the lacus lacrymalis, on the margin of each eyelid, is a small conical elevation, the lachrymal papilla, or tubercle, the apex of which is pierced by a small orifice, the vunctum lacrymale, the commencement of the lachrymal canal. Structure of the eyelids. The eyelids are composed of the following structures, taken in their order from without inwards:— Integument, areolar tissue, fibres of the Orbicularis muscle, tarsal cartilage, fibrous membrane. Meibomian glands, and conjunctiva. The upper lid has, in addition, the aponeurosis of the Levator palpebras. The integument is extremely thin, and continuous at the margin of the lids with the conjunctiva. The subcutaneous areolar tissue is very lax and delicate, seldom contains any fat, and is extremely liable to serous infiltration. The fibres of the orbicularis muscle, Avhere they cover the palpebrse, are thin, pale in color, and possess an involuntary action. The tarsal cartilages are two thin elongated plates of fibrd-cartilage, about an inch in length. They arc placed one in each lid, contributing to their form and support. The superior, the larger, is of a semilunar form, about one-third of an inch in breadth at the centre, and becoming gradually narrowed at each extremity. Into the fore part of this cartilage the aponeurosis of the Levator palpebr^ is attached. The inferior tarsal cartilage, the smaller, is thinner, and of an elliptical form. 40