GENERAL ANATOMY, 859 twigs, these inosculations become so numerous as to constitute a close network tliat pervades nearly every tissue of the body. Throughout the body generally, the larger arterial branches pursue a perfectly straight course, but in certain situations they are tortuous: thus, the facial artery in its course over the face, and the labial arteries of the lips, are extremely tor- tuous in their course, to accommodate themselves to the movements of these parts. The uterine arteries are also tortuous, to accommodate themselves.to the increase of size which this organ undergoes during pregnancy. Again, the internal carotid and vertebral arteries, previous to their entering the cavity of the skull, describe a series of ciirves, which are evidently intended to diminish the velocity of the current of blood, by increasing the extent of surface over which it moves, and adding to the amount of impediment which is produced from friction. The arteries are dense in structure, of considerable strength, highly elastic, and, when divided, they preserve, although empty, their cylindrical form. The arteries are composed of three coats—internal, middle, and external. The internal, the thinnest, consists usually of two layers, an inner or epithelial, and an outer or elastic coat. The former consists of a single layer of fusiform-shaped epithelial cells with round or oval nuclei. The latter is a transparent, colorless, shining membrane, perforated with small elongated apertures (hence the name, fenestrated), and marked with numerous reticulations. This layer is perfectly smooth when the artery is distended; but when empty presents numerous longi- tudinal and transverse folds. In ;arteries above the size of the capillaries, the elastic layer is very delicate, and the epithelium clearly demonstrable. In arteries of less than a line in diameter, the internal coat consists of two layers, as above described; but in medium-sized arteries, several lamellae, composed of elastic fibres and connective tissue, are interposed between the epithelial and elastic coats. In the largest arteries, the inner coat is usually much thickened, especially in the aorta; and consists of a homogeneous substance, occasionally striated or fibrillated, traversed by longitudinal elastic networks, which are very fine m the lamellae immediately beneath the epithelium, but increase in thickness from within outwards. The internal and middle coats are separated, by either a dense elastic reticulated coat or a true fenestrated membrane. The middle coat, thicker than the preceding, consists of muscular and elastic fibres, and connective tissue, disposed chiefly in the transverse direction. In the largest arteries, this coat is of great thickness, of a yellow color, and highly elastic; it diminishes in thickness, and becomes redder in color as the arteries become smaller, becomes very thin, and finally disappears. In small arteries, this coat is purely muscular, consisting of muscular fibre-cells united to form lamellae, which vary in number according to the size of the arteries, the very small arteries having only a single layer, and those not larger than the y'oth of a line three or four layers. In arteries of medium size, this coat becomes thicker in proportion with the size of the vessel; its layers of muscular tissue are more numerous, and intermixed with numerous fine elastic fibres which unite to form broad-meshed networks. In the larger vessels of this class, as the femoral, superior mesenteric, coeliac, external iliac, brachial, and popliteal arteries, the elastic fibres unite to form lamellae, which alternate with the layers of muscular fibre. In the largest arteries, the muscular tissue is only slightly developed, and forms about one-third or one- fourth of the whole substance of the middle coat. This is especially the case in the aorta, and trunk of the pulmonary artery, in which the individual cells of the muscular layer are imperfectly formed; while, in the carotid, axillary, iliac, and subclavian arteries, the muscular tissue of the middle coat is more developed. The elastic lamellae are well marked, may amount to fifty or sixty in number, and alternate regularly with the layers of muscular fibre. They are most distinct, and arranged with most regularity, in the abdominal aorta, innominate artery, and common carotid. The external, or areolar and elastic coat, the thickest of the three, consists of