SPERMATIC CORD —TESTIS. T41 septum, numerous slender fibrous cords (traheculee) are given off, wHcli pass to be attached to the inner surface of the tunica albuginea; they serve to maintain the form of the testis, and join, with similar cords given off from the inner surface of ■ the tunica albuginea, to form spaces which inclose the separate lobules of the organ. The mediastinum supports the vessels and ducts of the testis in their passage to and from the substance of the gland. The Tunica Vasculosa {pia mater testis) is the vascular layer of the testis, consisting of a plexus of bloodvessels, held together by a delicate areolar tissue. It covers the inner surface of the tunica albuginea, sending off numerous processes between the lobules, which are supported by the fibrous prolongations from the mediastinum testis. Structure of the Testis. The glandular structure of the testis consists of nume- rous lobules {lohuli testis). Their number, in a single testis, is estimated b}^ Berres at 250, and by Krause at 400. They differ in size according to their position, those in the middle of the gland being larger and longer. Each lobule is conical in shape, the base being directed towards the circumference of the organ, the apex towards the mediastinum. Each lobule is contained in one of the intervals between the fibrous cords and vascular processes, which extend between the mediastinum testis and the tunica albuginea, and consists of from one to three, or more, minute convoluted tubes, the tubuli seminiferi. The tubes may be separately unravelled, by careful dissection under water, and may be seen to commence either by free csecal ends, or by anasto- motic loops. The total number of tubes Fig. 372.—"Vertical Section of the Tes- is considered by Monro to be about 300, and the length of each about sixteen feet; by Lauth, their number is estimated at 840, and their average length two feet and a quarter. Their diameter varies from a^otb to y^o^^ inch. The tubuli are pale in color in early life, but, in old age, they acquire a deep yellow tinge, from containing much fatty matter. They consist of a basement membrane, lined by epithelium, consisting of nucle- ated granular corpuscles, and are inclosed in a delicate plexus of capillary vessels. In the apices of the lobules, the tubuli become less convoluted, assume a nearly straight course, and unite together to form from twenty to thirty larger ducts, of about g'gth of an inch in diameter, and these, from their straight course, are called vasa recta. The vasa recta enter the fibrous tissue of the mediastinum, and pass upwards and backwards, forming, in their ascent, a close network of anastomosing tubes, with exceedingly thin parietes; this constitutes the rete testis. At the upper end of the mediastinum, the vessels of the rete testis terminate in from twelve to fifteen or twenty ducts, the vasa efferentia: they perforate the tunica albuginea, and carry the seminal fluid from the testis to the epididymis. Their course is at first straight; they then become enlarged, and exceedingly convoluted, and form a series of conical masses, the coni vasculosi, which, together, constitute the globus major of the epididymis. Each cone consists of a single convoluted duct, from six to eight inches in length, the diameter of which gradually decreases from the testis to the epididymis. Opposite the bases of the cones, the efferent vessels open at narrow intervals into a single duct, which constitutes, by its complex tide, to show the arrangement of the Ducts.