VAS DEFERENS—YESICUL^ SEMINALES. ^43 spread out on its inner surface, or pass througli the fibrous septum in its interior, to be disti^ibuted on tlie membranous septa, between tlie separate lobes. The artery of the vas deferens is a long slender vessel, which accompanies the vas deferens, ramifying upon the coats of this duct, and anastomosing with the spermatic artery near the testis. The cremasteric branch from the epigastric supplies the Cremaster muscle, and other coverings of the cord. The spermatic veins leave the back part of the testis, and, receiving branches from the epididymis, unite to form a plexus {^'pampiniform plexus^, which forms the chief mass of the cord. They pass up in front of the vas deferens, and unite to form a single trunk, which terminates, on the right side in the inferior vena cava, on the left side in the left renal vein. The lymphatics are of large size, accompany the bloodvessels, and terminate in the lumbar glands. The nerves are the spermatic plexus from the sympathetic. This plexus is derived from the renal and aortic plexuses, joined by filaments from the hypogastric plexus, which accompany the artery of the vas deferens. VESICULiE SeMINALES. The Seminal Yesicles are two lobulated membranous pouches, placed between the base of the bladder and the rectum, serving as reservoirs for the semen, and Fig. 373.—Base of the Bladder, with the Vasa Deferentia aud Vesiculae Semiuales. secreting some fluid to be added to that of the testicles. Each sac is somewhat pyramidal in form, the broad end being directed backwards, and the narrow end forwards towards the prostate. They measure about two and a half inches in length, about five lines in breadth, and from two to three lines in thickness. They vary, however, in size, not only in different individuals, but also in the same individual on the two sides. Their upper surface is in contact with the base of the bladder, extending from near the termination of the ureters to the base of the prostate gland. Their under surface rests upon the rectum, from which they are separ-ated by the recto-vesical fascia. Their posterior extremities diverge back-