AETICULATIONS. 198 brae; 2. Those "vvtich connect the neck and tubercle of the ribs with the trans- verse processes. 1. AbTICULATION BETWEE>r THE HeADS OF THE ElBS AND THE BODIES OF THE VERTEBRiE. These constitute a series of angular ginglymoid joints, formed by the articula- tion of the heads of the ribs ivith the cavities on the contiguous margins of the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae, connected together by the following ligaments:— Anterior Costo-vertebral or Stellate. Capsular. Interarticular. The Anterior Costo-vertehral or Stellate Ligament (fig. 124) connects the anterior part of the head of eacb Fig. 12-4.—Costo-vet-tebral and Costotransverse Articulations. rib, with the sides of the Anterior View. bodies of the vertebrae, and the intervening in- tervertebral disk. It con- sists of three flat bundles of ligamentous fibres, which radiate from- the anterior part of the head of the rib. The superior fasciculus passes up- wards to be connected Avith the body of the vertebra above; the in- ferior one descends to the body of the vertebra below; and the middle one, the smallest and least distinct, passes ho- rizontally inwards to be attached to the interver- tebral substance. Relations. In front, with the thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic, the pleura, and, on the right behind, with the interarticular ligament and ' SyTwvixd side, with the vena azygos major synovial membranes. In the first rib, which articulates with a single vertebra only, this ligament does not present a distinct division into three fasciculi; its superior fibres, however, pass to be attached to the body of the last cervical vertebra, as well as to the body of the vertebra with which the rib articulates. In the eleventh and twelfth, ribs, which also articulate with a single vertebra, the same division does not exist; but the upper fibres of the ligament, in each case, are connected with the vertebra above, as well as to that with which the ribs articulate. The Capsular Ligament is a thin and loose ligamentous bag, which surrounds the joint between the head of the rib and the articular cavity formed by the junc- tion of the vertebrje. It is very thin, firmly connected with the anterior ligament, and most distinct at the upper and lower parts of the articulation. The Interarticular Ligament is situated in the interior of the joint. It consists of a short band of fibres, flattened from above downwards, attached by one extremity to the sharp crest on the head of the rib, and by the other to the intervertebral disk. It divides the joint into two cavities, which have no communication with one another, and are each lined by a separate synovial membrane. In the first*