SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 594 Cephalic Poetion of the Sympathetic. The cephalic portion of the sympathetic consists of four ganglia. 1. The oph- thalmic ganglion. 2. The spheno-palatine or Meckel's ganglion. 3. The otic or Arnold's ganglion. 4. The submaxillary ganglion. These have been already described in connection with each of the three divi- sions of the fifth nerve. Ceevical Poetion op the Sympathetic. The cervical portion of the sympathetic consists of three ganglia on each side, which are distinguished according to their position, as the superior, middle, and inferior cervical. The SuPEEioE Ceevical Ganglion, the largest of the three, is placed opposite the second and third cervical vertebrte, and sometimes as low as the fourth or fifth. It is of a reddish-gray color, and usually fusiform in shape; sometimes broad, and occasionally constricted at intervals, so as to give rise to the opinion, that it con- sists of the coalescence of several smaller ganglia. It is in relation, in front, with the sheath of the internal carotid artery, and internal jugular vein; behind, it lies on the Eectus capitis anticus major muscle. Its branches may be divided into superior, inferior, external, internal, and anterior. The Superior branch appears to be a direct continuation of the ganglion. It is soft in texture, and of a reddish color. It ascends by the side of the internal carotid artery, and, entering the carotid canal in the temporal bone, divides into two branches, which lie, one on the outer side, and the other on the inner side, of that vessel. The outer branch, the larger of the two, distributes filaments to the internal caro- tid artery, and forms the Carotid Plexus (described on page 595). I The in7ier branch also distributes filaments to the internal carotid, and, continu-' ing onwards, forms the Cavernous Plexus (described on page 595). The Inferior or Descending branch of the superior cervical ganglion communi- cates with the middle cervical ganglion. The External branches are numerous, and communicate with the cranial nerves, and with the four upper spinal nerves. Sometimes, the branch of the fourth spinal nerve may come from the cord connecting the upper and middle cervical ganglia. The branches of communication with the cranial nerves consist of delicate filaments, which pass from the superior cervical ganglion to the ganglion of the trunk of the pneumogastric, and to the ninth nerve. A separate filament from the cervical ganglion subdivides and joins the petrosal ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal, and the ganglion of the root of the pneumogastric in the jugular foramen. The Internal branches are three in number: pharyngeal, laryngeal, and the superior cardiac nerve. The pharyngeal branches pass inwards to the side of the pharynx, where they join with branches from the pneumogastric, glosso-pharyn- geal, and external laryngeal nerves, and assist in forming the pharyngeal plexus. The laryngeal branches unite with the superior laryngeal nerve and its branches. The superior cardiac nerve will be described in connection with the other cardiac nerves. The Anterior branches ramify upon the external carotid artery and its branches, forming round each a delicate plexus, on the nerves composing which small ganglia are occasionally found. These ganglia have been named, according to their position, intercarotid (one placed at the angle of bifurcation of the common carotid), lingual, temporal, and pharyngeal. The plexuses accompanying some of these arteries have important communications with other nerves. That sur- rounding the external carotid is connected with the digastric branch of the facial; that surrounding the facial communicates with the submaxillary ganglion by one or two filaments; and that accompanying the middle meningeal artery sends