DEEP PERINEAL FASCIA. 781 the Levator ani into the side of the vagina. The other muscles are precisely similar to those in the male. The Dee]) Perineal Fascia (triangular ligament) is a dense membranous lamina, which closes the front part of the outlet of the pelvis. It is triangular in shape, about an inch and a half in depth, attached above, by its apex, to the under surface of the symphysis pubis and sub-pubic ligament; and, on each side, to the rami of the ischia and pubes, beneath the crura penis. Its inferior margin or base is directed towards the rectum, and connected to the central tendinous point of the perineum. It is continuous with the deep layer of the superficial fascia, in front of the Transversus perinei muscle, and with a thin fascia, which covers the outer surface of the Levator ani muscle. The deep perineal fascia is perforated by the urethra, about an inch below the symphysis pubis. The aperture is circular in form, and about three or four lines in diameter. Above this is the aperture for the dorsal vein of the penis ; and outside the latter, the pudic nerve and artery pierce it. The deep perineal fascia consists of two layers, anterior and posterior: these are separated above, but united below. The anterior layer is continued forwards, around the anterior part of the mem- branous portion of the urethra, becoming lost upon the bulb. The posterior layer is derived from the pelvic fascia: it is continued backwards around the posterior part of the membranous portion of the urethra, and the outer surface of the prostate gland. If the anterior layer of this fascia is detached on either side, the following parts are seen between it and the posterior layer: the siib-pubic ligament above, close to the pubes; the dorsal vein of the penis; the membranous portion of the urethra, and the muscles of the urethra; Cowper's glands, and their ducts; the pudic vessels and nerve; the artery and nerve of the bulb, and a plexus of veins. . The Compressor Urethrse (constrictor urethrse) surrounds the whole length of the membranous portion of the urethra, and is contained between the two layers of the deep perineal fascia. It arises by aponeurotic fibres, from the upper part of the ramus of the pubes on each side, to the extent of half or three quarters of an inch; each segment of the muscle passes inwards, and divides into two fasciculi, which surround the urethra from the prostate gland behind, to the bulbous portion of the urethra in front; and unite, at the upper and lower sur- faces of this tube, with the muscle of the opposite side, by means of a tendinous raphe. Circular muscular fibres surround the membranous portion of the urethra, from the bulb in front to the prostate gland behind: they are placed immediately beneath the transverse fibres already described, and are continuous with the circular fibres of the bladder. These fibres are involuntary. Cowper''s Glands are situated immediately below the membranous portion of the urethra, close behind the bulb, and below the artery of the bulb (p. 736). The Pudic vessels and Nerves are placed along the inner margin of the pubic arch (p. 433). • The Artery of the Bulb passes transversely inwards from the internal pudic along the base of the triangular ligament, between the two layers of fascia, accompanied by a branch of the pudic nerve (p. 434). If the posterior layer of the deep perineal fascia is removed, and the crus penis of one side detached from the bone, the under or perineal surface of the Levator ani is brought fully into view. This muscle, with the triangular ligament in front and the Coccygeus and Pyriformis behind, closes in the outlet of the pelvis. The Levator ani is a broad thin muscle, situated on each side of the pelvis. It is attached to the inner surface of the sides of the true pelvis, and, descending, unites with its fellow of the opposite side to form the floor of the pelvic cavity. It supports the viscera in this cavity, and surrounds the various structures which