ANTERIOR TIBIO-FIBULAR REGION. 341 the leg, and gives attacliment, by its inner sur- face, to the Tibialis anticus and Extensor longus digitorum muscles; but thinner behind, where it covers the Gastrocnemius and Soleus muscles. Its inner surface gives ofij on the outer side of the leg, two strong intermuscular septa, which inclose the Peronei muscles, and separate them from the muscles on the anterior and posterior tibial regions, and several smaller and more slender processes inclose the indi- vidual muscles in each region; at the same time, a broad transverse intermuscular septum intervenes between the superficial and deep muscles in the posterior tibio-fibular region. The fascia should now be removed by dividing it in the same direction as the integument, excepting oppo- site the ankle, wnere it should be left entire. The re- moval of the fascia should be commenced from below, opposite the tendons, and detached in the line of direc- tion of the muscular fibres. Muscles of the Leg. These may be subdivided into three groups: those on the anterior, those on the posterior, and those on the outer side. Fiji 191.—Muscles of the Front of the Le". Anterior Tibio-fibular Eegion. Tibialis Anticus. Extensor Proprius Pollicis. Extensor Longus Digitorum. Peroneus Tertius. The Tibialis Anticus is situated on the outer side of the tibia; it is thick and fleshy at its upper part, tendinous below. It arises from the outer tuberosity and upper two-thirds of the external surface of the shaft of the tibia; from the adjoining part of the interosseous membrane; from the deep fascia of the leg; and from the intermuscular septum between it and the Extensor communis digitorum; the fibres pass vertically downwards, and terminate in a tendon, which is apparent on the anterior sur- face of the muscle at the lower thii'd of the leg. After passing through the innermost compart- ment of the anterior annular ligament, it is inserted into the inner and under surface of the internal cuneiform bone, and base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the deep fascia, and with the annular ligament. By lis,posterior surface, with the interosseous mem- brane, tibia, ankle-joint, and inner side of the tarsus. By its inner surface, with the tibia. Bjr its outer surface, with the Extensor longus digitorum, and Extensor proprius pollicis, the anterior tibial vessels and nerve lying between it and the last mentioned muscle.