CRANIAL NERYES. 554 mater, contained in a groove in the anterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, enters the hiatus Fallopii, and, being continued through it, into the aquaeductus Fallopii, joins the gangliform enlargement on the facial nerve. Properly speaking, this nerve passes from the facial to the spheno-palatine ganglion, forming its motor root. The carotid branch is shorter but larger than the petrosal, of a reddish-gray color, and soft in texture. It crosses the foramen lacerum, surrounded by the cartilaginous substance which fills in that aperture, and enters the carotid canal, on the outer side of the carotid artery, to join the carotid plexus. The Pharyngeal nerve {pterygo-palatine) is a small branch arising from the back part of the ganglion, occasionally springing from the Vidian nerve. It passes through the pterygo-palatine canal with the pterygo-palatine artery, and is dis- tributed to the lining membrane of the pharynx, behind the Eustachian tube. (3.) Otic or Arnold's Gakglion. The Otic Ganglion (Arnold's) is a small, oval-shaped, flattened ganglion of a reddish-gray color, situated immediately below the foramen ovale, on the inner surface of the inferior maxillary nerve, and round the origin of the internal pterygoid nerve (fig. 282). It is in relation, externally, with the trunk of the infe- rior maxillary nerve, at the point where the motor root joins the sensory portion; internally, with the cartilaginous part of the Eustachiau tube, and the origin of the Tensor palati muscle; hehmd it, is the middle meningeal artery. Fig. 282.—The Otic Ganglion and its Branches. Branches of communication. This ganglion is connected with the inferior maxillary nerve, and its internal pterygoid branch, by two or three short, delicate filaments, and also with the auriculo-temporal nerve; from the former, it obtains its motor, from the latter, its sensory root; its communication with the sympathetic being effected by a filament from the plexus surrounding the middle meningeal artery. This ganglion also communicates with the glosso-pharyngeal and facial nerves, through the small petrosal nerve continued from the tympanic plexus. Its branches of distribution are a filament to the Tensor tympani, and one to the Tensor palati. The former passes backwards, on the outer side of the Eustachian tube; the latter arises^from the ganglion, near the origin of the internal pterygoid nerve, and passes forwards. 1