120 OSTEOLOGY. The Costal Cartilages. Tlie Costal Cartilages (fig. 69) are white elastic structures, which serve to pro- long the ribs forward to the front of the chest, and contribute very materially to the elasticity of this cavity. The first seven are connected with the sternum, the next three with the lower border of the cartilage of the preceding rib. The cartilages of .the last two ribs, which have pointed extremities, float freely in the walls of the abdomen. Like the ribs, the costal cartilages vary in their length, breadth, and direction. They increase in length from the first to the seventh, then gradually diminish to the last. They diminish in breadth, as well as the intervals between them, from the first to the last. They are broad at their attachment to the ribs, and taper towards their sternal extremities, excepting the first two, which are of the same breadth throughout, and the sixth, seventh, and eighth, which are enlarged where their margins are in contact. In direction they also vary; the first descends a little, the second is horizontal, the third ascends slightly, whilst all the rest follow the course of the ribs for a short extent, and then ascend to the sternum or preceding cartilage. Each costal cartilage presents two surfaces, tivo borders, and two extremities. The anterior surface is convex, and looks forwards and upwards; that of the first gives attachment to the costo-clavicular ligament; that of the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth, at their sternal ends, to the Pectoralis major. The others are covered, and give partial attachment to some of the great flat muscles of the abdomen. The posterior surface is concave, and directed backwards and downwards, the six or seven inferior ones affording attachment to the Transversalis and Diaphragm muscles. Of the two borders, the superior is concave, the inferior convex; they afford attachment to the Inter- costal muscles, the upper border of the sixth giving attachment to the Pectoralis major muscle. The contiguous borders of the sixth, seventh, and eighth, and sometimes the ninth and tenth costal cartilages, present smooth oblong surfaces at the points where they articulate. Of the two extremities, the outer one is con- tinuoiis \\dth the osseous tissue of the rib to which it belongs. The inner extremity of the first is continuous with the sternum; the six succeeding ones have rounded extremities, which are received into shallow concavities on the lateral margins of the sternum. The inner extremities of the eighth, ninth, and tenth costal carti- lages are pointed, and lie in contact with the cartilage above. Those of the eleventh and twelfth are free, and pointed. The costal cartilages are most elastic in youth, those of the false ribs being more so than the true. In old age, they become of a deep yellow color. Under certain diseased conditions, they are prone to ossify. Mr. Humphry's observa- tions on this subject have led him to regard the ossification of the costal cartilages as a sign of disease rather than of age. " The ossification takes place in the first cartilage sooner than in the others; and in men more frequently, and at an earlier period of life, than in women." Attachment of Muscles. The Subclavius, Sterno-thyroid, Pectoralis major, Internal oblique, Transversalis, Pectus, Diaphragm, Triangularis sterni. Internal and External intercostals. OF THE EXTEEMITIES. The Extremities or limbs are those long-jointed appendages of the body, which are connected to the trunk by one end, being free in the rest of their extent. They are four in number: an M^jj^er or thoracic pair, connected with the thorax through the intervention of the shoulder, and subservient mainly to tact and pre- liension; and a lower pair, connected with the pelvis, intended for support and locomotion. Both pairs of limbs are constructed after one common type, so that they present numerous analogies; while, at the same time, certain differences are observed in each, dependent on the peculiar offices they severally perform.