36 561 The Spinal ^^"61768. The Spinal Nerves are so called, from taking their origin from tlie spinal cord, and from being transmitted through the intervertebral foramina on either side of the spinal column. There are thirty-one pairs of spinal nerves, which are arranged into the following groups, corresponding to the region of the spine through "which they pass:— Cervical ... 8 pairs. Dorsal . . . 12 " Lumbar . . . 5 " Sacral . . . 5 " Coccygeal ... 1 pair. It will be observed, that each group of nerves corresponds in number with the vertebr£e in each region, excepting in the cervical and coccygeal. Each spinal nerve arises by two roots, an anterior or motor root, and a posterior or sensitive root. i EOOTS OF THE SpINAL NeEVES. The anterior roots arise somewhat irregularly from a linear series of foramina, on, the antero-lateral column of the spinal cord, gradually approaching towards the anterior median fissure as they descend. The fibres of the anterior roots are, according to the researches of Mr. Lockhart Clarke, attached to the anterior part of the antero-lateral column; and, after penetrating horizontally through the longitudinal fibres of this tract, enter the gray substance, where their fibrils cross each other and diverge in all directions, like the expanded hairs of a brush, some of them running more or less longi- tudinally upwards and downwards, and others decussating with those of the opposite side through the anterior commissure in front of the central canal (figs. 258 and 259). Kolliker states that many fibres of the anterior root enter the lateral column of the same side, where, turning upwards, they pursue their course as longitudinal fibres. In other respects, the description of the origin of the anterior roots by these observers is very similar. The posterior roots are all attached immediately to the posterior white columns only; but some of them pass through the gray substance into both the lateral and anterior white columns. Within the gray substance, they run, longitudinally, upwards and downwards; transversely, through the posterior commissure to the opposite side and into the anterior column of their own side (figs. 258 and 259). The posterior roots of the nerves are larger, but the individual filaments are finer and more delicate than those of the anterior. As their component fibrils pass outwards, towards the aperture in the dura mater, they coalesce into two bundles, receive a tubular sheath from this membrane, and enter the ganglion which is developed upon each root. The posterior root of the first cervical nerve forms an exception to these characters. It is smaller than the anterior, has frequently no ganglion developed upon it, and, when the ganglion exists, it is often situated Avithin the dura mater. The anterior roots arc the smaller of the two devoid of any ganglionic enlargement, and their component fibrils are collected into two bundles, near the intervertebral foramina.