FCETAL CIRCULATION. 101 free margin of the suspensory ligament of tlie liver, to the under surface of this organ, where it gives off two or three branches to the left lobe, one of which is of large size; and others to the lobus quadratus and lobus Spigelii. At the transverse fissure, it divides into two branches; of these, the larger is joined by the portal vein, and enters the right lobe; the smaller branch continues onwards, under the name of the ductus venosus, and joins the left hepatic vein at the point of junction of this vessel with the inferior vena cava. The blood, there- fore, which traverses the umbilical vein, reaches the inferior vena cava in three different ways. The greater quantity circulates through th"e liver with the portal venous blood, before entering the cava by the hepatic veins; some enters the liver directly, and is also returned to the inferior cava by the hepatic veins; the smaller quantity passes directly into the vena cava, by the junction of the ductus venosus with the left hepatic vein. In the inferior cava, the blood carried by the ductus venosus and hepatic veins becomes mixed'with that retu.rning from the lower extremities and viscera of the abdomen. It enters the right auricle, and, guided by the Eustachian valve, passes through the foramen ovale into the left auricle, where it becomes mixed with a small quantity of blood returned from the lungs by the pulmonary veins. From the left auricle it passes into the left ventricle; and, from the left ventricle, into the aorta, from whence it is distributed almost entirely to the head and upper extremities, a small quantity being probably carried into the descending aorta. From the head and upper extremities, the blood is returned by the branches of the superior vena cava to the right auricle, where it becomes mixed with a small portion of the blood from the inferior cava. From the right auricle, it descends over the Eustachian valve into the right ventricle; and, from the I'ight ventricle, into the pulmonary artery. The lungs of the fcetus being solid, and almost impervious, only a small quantity of blood is distributed to them, by the right and left pulmonary arteries, which is retiirned by the pulmonary veins to the left auricle; the greater part passes through the ductus arteriosus into the commence- ment of the descending aorta, where it becomes mixed with a small quantity of blood transmitted by the left ventricle into the aorta. Along this vessel it descends to supply the lower extremities and viscera of the abdomen and pelvis, the chief portion being, however, conveyed by the umbilical arteries to the placenta. From the preceding account of the circulation of the blood in the foetus, it will be seen:— 1. That the placenta serves the double purpose of a respiratory and nutritive organ, receiving the venous blood from the foetus, and returning it again re-oxy- genated, and charged with additional nutritive material. 2. That nearly the whole of the blood of the umbilical vein traverses the liver before entering the inferior vena cava; hence the large size of this organ, especially at an early period of fcetal life. 3. That the right auricle is the point of meeting of a double current, the blood in the inferior vena cava being guided by the Eustachian valve into the left auricle, whilst that in the superior vena cava descends into the right ventricle. At an early period of foetal life, it is highly probable that the two streams are quite distinct; for the inferior vena cava opens almost directly into the left auricle, and the Eustachian valve would exclude the current aloncr the tube from entering; the right ventricle. At a later period, as the separation between the two auricles becomes more distinct, it seems probable that some slight mixture of the two streams must take place. 4. The blood carried from the placenta to the foetus by the umbilical vein, mixed with the blood from the inferior vena cava, passes almost directly to the arch of the aorta, and is distributed by the branches of this vessel to the head and upper extremities; hence the large size and perfect development of these parts at birth. 5. The blood contained in the descending aorta, chiefly derived from that which has already circulated through the head and limbs, together with a small