651 DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEETH. eacli, whicli is tlie germ of the permanent tooth; at the same time, one or more operculse are developed from the sides of the cavity; and these, uniting, divide it into two portions; the lower portion containing the papilla of the permanent tooth, the upper narrower portion becoming gradually contracted in the same way that the primitive dental groove was obliterated over the sacs of the deciduous teeth (fig. 328). The six posterior permanent teeth in each jaw, three on each side, arise from successive extensions backwards of the back part of the primitive dental groove. During the fourth month, that portion of the dental groove which lies behind the last temporary molar follicle remains open, and from it is developed the papilla, the rudiment of the first permanent molar. The follicle in which it is contained becomes closed by its operculum, and the upper part of the now- formed sac elongates backwards to form a cavity of reserve, in which the papilla of the second permanent molar appears at the seventh month after birth. After a considerable interval, during which the sacs of the first and second permanent molars have considerably increased in size, the remainder of the cavity of reserve presents for the last time a series of changes similar to the preceding, and gives rise to the sac and papilla of the wisdom-tooth, which appears at the sixth year. Groioth of the Teeth. As soon as the dental sacs are formed by the closiilg-in of the follicles, they gradually enlarge, as well as their contained papillse. Each sac consists of two layers; an internal, highly vascular layer, lined by epithelium; and an external or areolo-fibrous membrane, analogous to the corium of the mucous membrane. The dented pulps soon become moulded to the form of the future teeth, and are adherent by their bases to the bottom of the dental sacs; in the case of the molars, the base of the pulp is divided into two or more portions, which form the future fangs. During the fourth or fifth month of fcetal life, a thin lamina or cap of dentine is formed on the most prominent point of the pulp of all the milk-teeth. In the incisor and canine teeth, this newly-formed lamina has the form of a hollow cone; in the molar teeth, as many separate laminae are found as there are eminences iipon its crown. These laminae grow at the expense of the pulp-substance, increasing in breadth by a growth round their margins, and in thickness by a similar forma- tion in its substance; the separate cones (if a molar tooth) ultimately coalesce, and the crown is completely formed. The pulp now becomes constricted, so as to form the cervix; and the remaining portion becomes narrow and elongated, to form the fang. The growth of dentine takes place from the surface towards the 'interior, until nothing but the small cavitas pulj^se remains in the centre of the tooth, com- municating by the aperture left at the point of each fang, with the dental vessels and nerves. As soon as the formation of the dentine has commenced, there is developed from the inner wall of the dental sac, a soft pulpy mass, the enamel organ, Avhich is intimately united to the surface of the dental pulp, or its cap of dentine. It consists of a mesh of fibres, elastic and spongy, containing within its reticulations fluid albumen; and at the point of junction of each fibre, a transparent nucleus is visible. The surface towards the dentinal pulp is covered by a layer of elongated nucleated cells, the enamel membrane. The deposition of the enamel takes place on the outer surface of the cap of dentine. The cementum appears to be formed, at a later period of life, by the periodontal membrane, extending from the margin of the enamel downwards. Eruption. When the calcification of the different tissues of the tooth is sufii- ciently advanced to enable it to bear the pressure tO' which it will be afterwards subjected, its eruption takes place, the tooth making its way through the gum. The gum is absorbed by tho pressure of the crown of the tooth against it, Avhich is itself pressed up by the increasing size of the fang (fig. 329). Concurrent with this, the septa between the dental sacs, at first fibrous in structure, soon ossify, and