38 OSTEOLOGY. tave exceedingly thin coats; and wlien the bony structure is divided, they remain patulous, and do not contract in the canals in which they are contained. Hence the constant occurrence of purulent absorption after amputation, in those cases where the stump becomes inflamed, and the cancellous tissue is infiltrated and bathed in pus. Lymphatic vessels have been traced, by Cruikshank, into the substance of bone, but Kolliker doubts their existence. Nerves are distributed freely to the perios- teum, and accompany the nutritious arteries into the interior of the bone. They are said, by Kolliker, to be most numerous in the articular extremities of the long bones, in the vertebr93, and the larger flat bones. Periosteum. The bones are covered by a tough fibrous membrane, the periosteum, which adheres to their surface in nearly every part, excepting at their cartilaginous extremities, and where strong tendons are attached. It is highly vascular; and, from it, numerous vessels pass into minute orifices which cover the entire surface of the bone. It consists of two layers closely united together; the outer one formed chiefly of connective tissue, and occasionally a few fat-cells; the inner one, of elastic fibres of the finer kind, which form dense elastic membranous networks, superimposed in several layers (Kolliker). In young bones, this membrane is thick, very vascular, intimately connected at either end of the bone with the epiphysal cartilage; but less closely connected with the shaft, from which it is separated by a layer of soft blastema, in which ossification proceeds on the exterior of the young bone. Later in life, the periosteum is thinner, less vascular, and more closely connected with the adjacent bone, this adhesion growing stronger as age advances. The periosteum serves as a nidus for the ramification of the vessels previous to their distribution in the bone; hence the liability of bone to exfolia- tion or necrosis, when, from injury, it is denuded of this membrane. Marrow. The medullary canal of adult long bones, the cavities of the cancellous tissue, and the larger Haversian canals, are filled with a substance called marrow, and lined by a highly vascular areolar tissu.e, the medullary membrane, or internal periosteum. It is by means of the vessels which ramify through this membrane, that the nourishment of the medulla and contiguous osseous tissue is effected. The marrow differs in composition at different periods of life, and in different bones. In young bones, it is a transparent reddish fluid, of tenacious consistence, free from fat; and contains numerous minute roundish polynucleated cells. In the shafts of adult long bones, the marrow is of a yellow color, and contains, in 100 parts, 96.0 fat, 1.0 areolar tissue and vessels, and 3.0 of fluid with extractive matters; whilst, in the flat and short bones, in the articular ends of the long bones, in the bodies of the vertebrae, the base of the cranium, and in the sternum and ribs, it is of a red color, and contains, in 100 parts, 75.0 water, and 25.0 solid matter, consisting of albumen, fibrin, extractive matter, salts, and a mere trace of fat. It consists of fat-cells with a large quantity of fluid, containing numerous polynucleated cells, similar to those found in foetal marrow. Development of Bone. From the peculiar uses to which bone is applied in forming a hard skeleton or framework for the softer materials of the body, and in inclosing and protecting some of the more important vital organs, we find its development takes place at a very early period. Hence, the parts that appear soonest in the embryo are the vertebral column and the skull, the great central column, to which the other parts of the skeleton are appended. At an early period of embryonic life, tlie parts destined to become bone consist of a congeries of cells, connected together by an amorphous blastema which constitutes the simplest form of cartilage. This temporary cartilage, as it is termed, is an exact miniature of the bone which, in due course, is to take its place; and as the process of ossification is slow, and not completed until adult life, it increases in bulk by an interstitial development of new cells. The next step in this process is the ossification of the intercellular substance, and of the cells composing the cartilage. Ossification commences in the interior of the cartilage at certain points, called points or centres of ossification, from which it extends into the surrounding substance. This mode