PALATAL REGION. 265 The Levator Palati is a long, thick, rounded muscle, placed on the outer side of the posterior aperture of the nares. It arises from the under surface of the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and from the adjoining carti- laginous portion of the Eustachian tube, and after passing into the pharynx, above the upper concave margin of the Superior constrictor, it descends obliqviely downwards and inwards, its fibres spreading out in the posterior surface of the soft palate as far as the middle line, where thej blend with those of the opposite side. Relations. Externally, with the Tensor palati and Superior constrictor. Inter- nally, it is lined by the mucous membrane of the pharynx. Posteriorly, with the mucous lining of the soft palate. This muscle must be removed and the pterygoid attachment of the Superior constrictor dissected away, in order to expose the next muscle. The Circumflexus or Tensor Palati is a broad, thin, riband-like muscle, placed on the outer side of the preceding, and consisting of a vertical and a horizontal portion. The vertical portion arises by a broad, thin, and flat lamella from the scaphoid fossa at the base of the internal pterygoid plate, its origin extending as far back as the spine of the sphenoid; it also arises from the anterior aspect of the cartilaginous portion of the Eustachian tube; descending vertically between the internal pterygoid plate and the inner surface of the Internal pterygoid muscle, it terminates in a tendon which winds round the hamular process, being retained in this situation by a tendon of origin of the Internal pterygoid muscle, and lubricated by a bursa. The tendon or horizontal portion then passes horizontally inwards, and expands into a broad aponeurosis on the anterior surface of the soft palate, which unites in the median line with the aponeurosis of the opposite muscle, the fibres being attached in front to the transverse ridge on the posterior border of the horizontal portion of the palate bone. Relations. Externally, with the Internal pterygoid. Internally, with the Levator palati, from which it is separated by the Superior constrictor, and the internal pterygoid plate. In the soft palate its aponeurotic expansion is anterior to that of the Levator palati, being covered by mucous membrane. The Azygos Uvulse is not a single muscle as implied by its name, but a pair of narrow cylindrical fleshy fasciculi, placed side by side in the median line of the soft palate. Each muscle arises from the posterior nasal spine of the palate bone, and from the contiguous tendinous aponeurosis of the soft palate, and descends to be inserted into the uvula. Relations. Anteriorly, with the tendinous expansion of the Levatores palati; behind, with the mucous membrane. The two next muscles are exposed by removing tlie mucous membrane which covers the pillars of the soft palate throughout nearly their whole extent. The Palato-ghssus or Constrictor Isthmi Faucium is a small fleshy fasciculus, narrower in the middle than at either extremity, forming, with the mucous mem- brane covering its surface, the anterior pillar of the soft palate. It arises from the anterior surface of the soft palate on each side of the uvula, and, passing forwards and outwards in front of the tonsil, is inserted into the side and dorsum of the tongue, where it blends with the fibres of the Stylo-glossus muscle. In the soft palate, the fibres of this muscle are continuous with those of the opposite side. The Palato-iiiliarynrjeus is a long fleshy fasciculus, narrower in the middle than at either extremity, forming, with the mucous membrane covering its surface, the posterior pillar of the soft palate. It is separated from the preceding by an angular interval, in which the tonsil is lodged. It arises from the soft palate by an expanded fasciculus, which is divided into two parts by the Levator palati. The anterior fasciculus, the thickest, enters the soft palate between the Levator palati and Tensor palati, and joins in the middle line the corresponding part of the opposite muscle; the posterior fasciculus lies in contact with the mucous mem- brane, and also joins with the corresponding muscle in the middle line. Passing