OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. inner side of the forearm to tlie bend of the elbow, where it joins with the posterior ulnar vein to form the basilic. It communicates with branches of the median vein in front, and with the posterior ulnar behind. The Posterior Ulnar Vein commences on the posterior surface of the ulnar side of the hand, and from the vein of the little finger (vena salvatella), situated over the fourth metacarpal space. It ascends on the posterior surface of the ulnar side of the forearm, and just below the elbow unites with the anterior ulnar vein to form the basilic. The Basilic is a vein of considerable size, formed by the coalescence of the anterior and posterior ulnar veins; ascending along the inner side of the elbow, it receives the median basilic vein, and, passing upwards along the inner side of the arm, pierces the deep fascia, and ascends in the course of the brachial artery, ter- minating either in one of the venas comites of that vessel, or in the axillary vein. The Radial Vein commences from the dorsal surface of the thumb, index finger, and radial side of the hand, by branches which communicate with the vena salva- tella. They form by their union a large vessel, which ascends along the radial side of the forearm, receiving numerous branches from both its surfaces. At the bend of the elbow it receives the median cephalic, when it becomes the cephalic vein. The Cephalic Vein ascends along the outer border of the Biceps muscle, to the upper third of the arm ; it then passes in the interval between the Pectoralis major and Deltoid muscles, accompanied by the descending branch of the thoracica acro- mialis artery, and terminates in the axillary vein just below the clavicle. This vein.'is occasionally connected "^ith the external jugular or subclavian, by a branch which passes from it upwards m front of the clavicle. The Median Vein collects the blood from the superficial structures in the palmar surface of the hand and middle line of the forearm, communicating with the anterior ulnar and radial veins. At the bend of the elbow, it receives a branch of communication from the deep veins, accompanying the brachial artery, and divides into two branches, the median cephalic and median basilic, which diverge from '"each other as they ascend. The Median Cephalic, the smaller of the two, passes outwards in the groove between the Supinator longus and Biceps muscles, and joins with the cephalic vein. The branches of the external cutaneous nerve pass behind this vessel. The Median Basilic vein passes obliquely inwards, in the groove between the Biceps and Pronator radii teres, and joins with the basilic. This vein passes in front of the brachial artery, from which it is separated by a fibrous expansion, given off fi-om the tendon of the Biceps to the fascia covering the Flexor muscles of the forearm. Filaments of the internal cutaneous nerve pass in front of as well as behind this vessel. 2. The Deep Veins of the Upper Extremity follow the course of the arteries, forming their venae comites. They are generally two in number, one lying on each side of the corresponding artery, and they are connected at intervals by short transverse branches. There are two digital veins, accompanying each artery along the sides of the fingers; these, uniting at their base, pass along the interosseous spaces in the palm, and terminate in the two superficial palmar veins. Branches from these vessels on the radial side of the hand accompany the superficialis volse, and on the ulnar side terminate in the deep ulnar veins. The deep ulnar veins, as they pass m front of the wrist, communicate with the interosseous and superficial veins, and unite at the elbow with the deep radial veins, to form the veniB comites of the brachial artery. The Interosseous Veins accompany the anterior and posterior interosseous arteries. The anterior interosseous veins commence in front of the wrist, where they communicate with the deep radial and ulnar veins; at the upper part of the forearm they receive the posterior interosseous veins, and terminate in the venae comites of the ulnar artery.