CRANIAL NERVES. 546 portion of the temporal hone; here the fibres of the larger root enter a large semilunar ganglion (Casserian), while the smaller root passes beneath the ganglion without having any connection with it, and joins outside the cranium with one of the trunks derived from it. The Casserian or Semilunar Ganglion is lodged in a depression near the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It is of a somewhat crescentic form, with its convexity turned forwards. Its upper surface is intimately adhe- rent to the dura mater. Branches. This ganglion receives, on its inner side, filaments from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic; and from it some minute branches are given off' to the ten- torium cerebelli, and the dura mater, in the middle fossa of the cranium. From its anterior border, which is directed forwards and outwards, three large branches proceed; the ophthalmic, superior maxillary, and inferior maxillary. The two first divisions of this nerve consist exclusively of fibres derived from the larger root and ganglion, and are solely nerves of common sensation. The third or inferior maxillary is composed of fibres from both roots. This, therefore, strictly speaking, is the only portion of the fifth nerve which can be said to resemble a spinal nerve. Branches of the Fifth Nerve. (1.) Ophthalmic Nerve. The Ophthalmic, the first division of the fifth, is a sensory nerve. It supplies the eyeball, the lachrymal gland, the mucous lining of the eye and nose, and the integument and muscles of the eyebrow and forehead (fig. 275). It is the smallest of the three divisions of the fifth, arising from the upper part of the Casserian ganglion. It is a short, flattened band, about an inch in length, which passes for- wards along the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, below the other nerves, and just before entering the orbit, through the sphenoidal fissure, divides into three branches, frontal, lachrymal, and nasal. The ophthalmic nerve is joined by fila- ments from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, and gives off" recurrent filaments which pass between the layers of the tentorium, with a branch from the fourth nerve. Its bratLches are the Lachrymal. Frontal. Nasal. The Lachrymal is the smallest of the three branches of the ophthalmic. Not unfrequently it arises by two filaments, one from the ophthalmic, the other from the fourth, and this. Swan considers, as the usual condition. It passes forwards in a separate tube of dura mater, and enters the orbit through the narrowest part of the sphenoidal fissure. In this cavity, it runs along the upper border of the External rectus muscle, with the lachrymal artery, and is connected, with the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve. Within the lachrymal gland it gives off several filaments, which supply it and the conjunctiva. Finally it p;erces the palpebral ligament, and terminates in the integument of the upper eyelid, joining with filaments of the facial nerve. The Frontal is the largest division of the ophthalmic, and may be regarded, both from its size and direction, as the continuation of this nerve. It enters the orbit above the muscles, through the highest and broadest part of the sphenoidal fissure, and runs forwards along the middle line, between the Levator palpebrse and the periosteum. Midway between the apex and base of this cavity, it divides into two branches, supra-trochlear and supra-orbital. The supra-trochlear branch, the smaller of the two, passes inwards, above the pulley of the Superior oblique muscle, and gives off" a descending filament, which joins with the infra-trochlear branch of the nasal nerve. It then escapes from the orbit between the pulley of the Superior oblique and the supra-orbital foramen, curves up on to the forehead close to the bone, and ascends behind the Corru gator supercilii and Occipito-frontalis muscles, to both of which it is distributed finally, it is lost in the integument of the forehead.