CORPORA QUADRIGEMINA—YALVE OF VIEUSSENS. 529 The corpora or tvhercula quadrigemina—the oiMc lohes—are four rounded emi- nences placed in pairs, two in front and two behind, separated from another by a crucial depression. They are situated immediately behind the third ventricle and posterior commissure, beneath the posterior border of the corpus callosum, and above the iter e tertio ad quartum ventriculum. The anterior pair, the nates, are the larger, oblong from before backwards, and of a gray color. The posterior pair, the testes, are hemispherical in form, and lighter in color than the preceding. They are connected on each side with the thalamus opticus, and commencement of the optic tracts, by means of two white prominent bands, termed brackia. Those connecting the nates with the thalamus {brachia anteriora) are the larger, and pass obliquely outwards. Those connecting the testes with the thalamus are called the brachia posteriora. Both pairs, in the adult, are quite solid, being composed of white matter externally, and gray matter within. These bodies are larger in the lower animals than in man. In fishes, reptiles, and birds, they are only two in number, are called the ojJtic lobes, from their connection with the optic nerves, and are hollow in their interior; but in mammalia, they are four in number, as in man, and quite solid. In the human foetus, they are developed at a very early period, and form a large proportion of the cerebral mass; at first, they are only two in number, as in the lower mammalia, and hollow in their interior. These bodies, from below, receive white fibres from the olivary fascicu.lus or fillet; they are also connected with the cerebellum, by means of a large white cord on each side, the processus ad testes or sviperior peduncles of the cerebellum, which pass up to the thalami from the tubercula quadrigemina. The valve of Vieussens is a thin translucent lamina of medullary substance, stretched between the tAvo processus e cerebello ad testes; it covers in the canal leading from the third to the fourth ventricle, forming part of the roof of the latter cavity. It is narrow in front, where it is connected with the testes; and broader behind, at its connection with the vermiform process of the cerebellum. A slight elevated ridge, the f renulum, descends upon the ujDper part of the valve from the corpora quadrigemina, and on either side of it may be seen the fibres of origin of the fourth nerve. Its lower half is covered by a thin transversely grooved lobule of gray matter prolonged from the anterior border of the cerebellum ; this is called the linguetta laminosa. The corpora geniculata are two small, flattened, oblong masses, placed on the outer side of the corpora quadrigemina, and on the under and back part of each optic thalamus, and named, from their position, corpms geniculatum externum and corpus geniculatum internum. They are placed one on the outer and one on the inner side of each optic tract. In this situation, the optic tract may be seen dividing into two bands, one of which is connected Avith the external geniculate body and nates, the other being connected with the internal geniculate body and testis. Structure of the cerebrum. The white matter of each hemisphere consists of three kinds of fibres. 1. Diverging or peduncular fibres, Avhich connect the hemisphere with the cord and medulla oblongata. 2. Transverse commissural fibres which connect together the two hemispheres. 3. Longitudinal commissural fibres, which connect distant parts of the same hemisphere. The diverging or peduncular fibres consist of a main body, and of certain accessory fibres. The main body of fibres originates in the columns of the cord and medu,lla oblongata, and enters the cerebrum through the crus cerebri, where they are arranged in two bundles, separated by the locus niger. Those fibres which form the inferior or fasciculated portion of the crus are derived from the anterior pyramid, and, ascending, pass mainly through the centre of the striated bodj^; those on the opposite surface of the crus, which form the tegmentum, are derived from the posterior pyramid and fasciculi teretes; ascending, they pass, some through, the under part of the thalamus, and others through both thalamus and corpus striatum, decussating in these bodies with each other, and with the fibres of the corpus callosum. The optic thalami also receive accessory fibres from ihe-processus ad testes, the olivary fasciculus, the corpora quadrigemina, and corpora, geniculata- 84