NERVOUS SYSTEM. 506 Witliin and along the outer border of the cervix are several thick bundles of longitudinal fibres, represented in the adjoining figure by the dark spots ; other bundles of the same kind may be seen in the gray substance along the line of junction of the caput with the cervix cornu (tig. 258). The anterior horn of the gray substance in the cervical and lumbar swellings, where it gives origin to the nerves of the extremities, is much larger than in any other region, and contains several distinct groups of large and variously shaped cells. This is well shown on comparing the above figures. The tractus intermedio lateralis (fig. 257) extends from the upper part of the lumbar to the lower part of the cervical enlargement, and consists of variously shaped cells, which are smaller than those of the anterior cornu. In the neck above the cervical en- largement, a similar tract reappears, and is traversed by the lower part of the spinal accessory nerve. Origin of the Spinal Nerves. The posterior roots are larger than the anterior; but their component filaments are finer and more delicate. They are all attached immediately to the posterior columns only, and decussate with each other in all directions through the columns; but some of them pass through the gray substance into both the lateral and anterior columns. Within the gray substance, they run lon- gitudinally upwards and downwards; transversely through the posterior commissure to the opposite side; and into the anterior cornu of their own side (figs. 258 and 259). The anterior roots are attached exclusively to the anterior columbs, or rather to the anterior part of the antero-lateral columns; for there is no antero-lateral fissure dividing the anterior from the lateral column. "Within the gray substance, the fibrils cross each other, and diverge in all directions like the expanded hairs of abrush (figs. 258 and 259), some of them running more or less longitudinally upwards and downwards; and others decussating with those of the opposite side through the anterior commissure in front of the cen- tral canal. All the fibres of both roots of the nerves proceed through the white columns into the gray substance, with, perhaps, the exception of some which appear to run longitudinally in the posterior columns; but whether these latter fibres of the posterior roots ulti- mately enter the gray substance of the cord after a very oblique course, or whether they proceed upwards to the brain, is uncertain.' The Central Canal, In the fcetus, until after the sixth month, a canal, continuous with the general ventricu.lar cavity of the brain, extends throughout the entire length of the spinal cord, formed by the closing-in of a previously open groove. In the adult, this canal can only be seen at the upper part of the cord, extending from the point of the calamiis scriptorius, in the floor of the fourth ventricle, for about half an inch down the centre of the cord, where it terminates in a cul-de- sac ; the remnant of the canal being just visible in a section of the cord, as a small, pale spot, corresponding to the centre of the gray commissure, its cavity being lined with a layer of cylindrical ciliated epithelium. In some cases, this canal remains pervious throughout the whole length of the cord. ' The above description, and accompanying illustrations, kindly furnished me by my friend, Mr. Lockhart Clarke, embodies a condensed account of his laborious and extensive observations on the structure of the spinal cord. For further information on this subject, vide Phil. Trans. 1851—1853, Part iii.; 1858, Part i,; 1859, Part i. Fig. 259.—Longitudinal Section of the white and gray substance of the spinal cord, through the middle of the lumbar enlargement. Mag. 14 diam.