SALIVARY GLANDS. 655 dense, of considerable thickness, and its canal is about the size of a crow-quill; it consists of an external or fibrous coat, of considerable density, containing con- tractile fibres, and of an internal or mucous coat, lined with columnar epithelium. Vessels and Nerves. The arteries supplying the parotid gland are derived from the extetnal carotid, and from the branches of that vessel in or near its substance. The veins follow a similar course. The lymphatics terminate in the superficial and deep cervical glands, passing in their course through two or three lymphatic glands, placed on its surface and in its substance. The nerves are derived from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic, the facial, superficial, temporal, and great auricular nerves. The Submaxillary gland is situated below the jaw, in the anterior part of the submaxillary triangle of the neck. It is irregular in form, and weighs about two drachms. It is covered by the integument, Platysma, deep cervical fascia, and the body of the lower jaw, corresponding to a depression on its inner surface, and lies upon the Mylo-hyoid, Hyo-glossus, and Stylo-glossus muscles, a portion of the gland passing beneath the posterior border of the Mylo-hyoid. In front of it is the anterior belly of the Digastric; behind, it is separated from the parotid gland by the stylo-maxillary ligament, and from the sublingual gland in front by the Mylo-hyoid muscle. The facial artery lies in a groove in its posterior and upper border. Wharton's duct, the duct of the submaxillary gland, is about two inches in length, and its walls much thinner than those of the parotid duct. It commences by a narrow orifice on the summit of a small papilla, at the side of the frsenum linguse. Passing between the sublingual gland and the Genio-hyo-glossus mus- cle, it runs backwards and outwards between the Mylo-hyoid, and the Hyo-glossus and Grenio-hyo-glossus muscles, and beneath the gustatory nerve, to the deep por- tion of the gland, where it divides into numerous branches. Vessels and Nerves. The arteries supplying the submaxillary gland are branches of the facial and lingual. Its veins follow the course of the arteries. The nerves are derived from the submaxillary ganglion, from the mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior dental, and from the sympathetic. The Sublingual gland is the smallest of Ihe salivary glands. It is situated beneath the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, on either side of the fr03num linguae, in contact with the inner surface of the lower jaw, close to the symphysis. It is narrow, flattened, in shape somewhat like an almond, and weighs about a drachm. It is in relation, above, with the mucous membrane; below, with the Mylo-hyoid muscle; in front, with the depression on the side of the symphysis of the lower jaw, and with its fellow of the opposite side; behind, with the deep part of the submaxillary gland; and internally, with the Grenio- hyo-glossus, from which it is separated by the lingual nerve and Wharton's duct. Its excretory ducts [ductus Riviniani), from eight to twenty in hu.mber, open sepa- rately into the mouth, on the elevated crest of mucous membrane, caused by the projection of the gland, on either side of the frffinum linguse. One or more join to form a tube which opens into the Whartonian duct; it is called the duct of Bartholine. Vessels and Nerves. The sublingual gland is supplied with blood from the sub. lingual and submental arteries. Its nerves are derived from the gustatory. Structure. The salivary are conglomerate glands, consisting of numerous lobes, which are made up of smaller lobules, connected together by dense areolar tissue, vessels, and ducts. Each lobule consists of numerous closed vesicles, which open into a common duct; the wall of each vesicle is formed of a delicate basement membrane, lined by epithelium, and covered on its outer surface with a dense capil- lary network. In the submaxillary and sublingual glands, the lobes are larger and more loosely united than in the parotid.