439 FEMORAL. Adductor longus, and tlie base, by Poupart's ligament. The floor of tbis space is formed from without inwards by the Iliacus, Psoas, Pectineus, Adductor lono-us, and a small part of the Adductor brevis muscles; and it is divided into two nearly equal parts by the femoral vessels, which extend from the middle of its base to its apex; the artery giving off in this Pig. 231.—Surgical Anatomy of the Femoral Artery. situation its cutaneous and profunda branches, the vein receiving the deep femoral and internal saphenous veins. In this space, the femoral artery rests on the inner margin of the Psoas muscle, which separates it from the capsular ligament of the hip-joint. The artery in this situation is crossed in front by the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve, and behind by the branch to the Pectineus from the anterior crural. The femoral vein lies at its inner side, between the margins of the Pectineus and Psoas muscles. The anterior crural nerve lies about half an inch to the outer side of the femoral artery, deeply imbedded between the Iliacus and Psoas muscles; and on the Iliacus muscle, internal to the anterior superior spi- nous process of the ilium, is the external cutaneous nerve. The femoral artery and vein are inclosed in a strong fibrous sheath, form- ed by fibrous and cellular tissue, and by a process of fascia sent inwards from the fascia lata; the vessels are separated, however, from one another by thin fibrous partitions. In the middle third of the thigh, the femoral artery is more deeply seated, being covered by the integument, the superficial and deep fascite, and the Sartorius, and is contained in an aponeurotic canal, formed by a dense fibrous band, Avhich extends transversely from the Vastus internus to the tendons of the Adductor longus and Adductor magnus muscles. In this part of its course it lies in a depression, bounded externally by the Vastus internus, internally by the Adductor longus and Adductor magnus. The femoral vein lies Super. etamciieti J^jncf Anler. Tihix.