399 INTERNAL MAMMARY. The posterior scapular, the continuation of the transversalis colli, passes beneath The Levator anguli scapula to the superior angle of the scapula, and descends along the posterior border of that bone as far as the inferior angle, where it anas- tomoses with the subscapular branch of the axillary. In its course it is covered Fig. 216.—The Scapular and Circumflex Arteries. Bctttrior ScofiiiUr by the Rhomboid muscles, supplying these, the Latissimus dorsi and Trapezius, and anastomosing with the suprascapular and subscapular arteries, and with the posterior branches of some of the intercostal arteries. Peculiarities. The superficial cervical frequently arises as a separate branch from the thyroid axis; and the posterior scapular from the third, more rarely from the second, part of the sub- clavian. The Internal Mammary arises from the under surface of the first portion of the subclavian artery, opposite the thyroid axis. It descends behind the clavicle, to the inner surface of the anterior wall of the chest, resting upon the costal cartilages, a short distance from the margin of the sternum; and, at the interval between the sixth and seventh cartilages, divides into two branches, the musculo- phrenic, and superior epigastric. At its origin, it is covered by the internal jugular and subclavian veins, and crossed by the phrenic nerve. In the upper part of the thorax, it lies upon the costal cartilages, and Internal intercostal muscles in front, covered by the pleura behind. At the lower part of the thorax, the Triangularis sterni separates this vessel from the pleura. It is accompanied by two veins, which join at the upper part of the thorax into a single trunk. The branches of the internal mammary are the Comes nervi phrenici or Superior phrenic. Anterior intercostal. Mediastinal. Perforating. Pericardiac. Musculo-phrenic. Sternal. . Superior epigastric. The comes nervi phrenici or superior phrenic is a long slender branch, which accompanies the phrenic nerve, between the pleura and pericardium, to the Dia- phragm, to which it is distributed; anastomosing with the other phrenic arteries from the internal mammary, and abdominal aorta.