503 SPINAL CORD. than the cord; so that, in the child at birth, it extends as far as the third lumbar vertebra. Its position varies also according to the degree of curvature of the spinal column, being raised somewhat in flexion of the spine. On examining its surface it presents a difference in its diameter in different parts, being marked by two enlargements, an upper or cervical, and a lower or lumbar. The cervical enlargement, which is the larger, extends from the third cervical to the first dorsal vertebra: its greatest diameter is in the transverse direction, and it corresponds with the origin of the nerves which supply the upper extremities. The lower or lumbar enlargement is situated opposite the last dorsal vertebra, its greatest diameter being from before backwards. It corresponds with the origin of the nerves which supply the lower extremities. In form, the spinal cord is a flattened cylinder. Its anterior surface presents, along the middle line, a longitudinal fissure, the anterior median fissure; and, on its posterior surface, another fissure exists, which also extends along the entire length of the cord, the posterior median fissure. These fissures serve to divide the cord into two symmetrical halves, which are united in the middle line, throughout their entire length, by a transverse band of nervous substance, the commissure. The Anterior median fissure is wider, but of less depth, than the posterior, extending into the cord for about one-third of its thickness, and is deepest at the lower part of the cord. It contains a prolonga- tion from the pia mater; and its floor is formed by the anterior white commissure, which is perforated by numerous bloodvessels, which pass to the centre of the :cord. The Posterior median fissure is much more deli- cate than the anterior, and most distinct at the upper and lower parts of the cord. It extends into the cord to about one-half of its depth. It contains a very slender process of the pia mater and numerous bloodvessels, and its floor is formed by a thin layer of white substance, the posterior white commissure. Some anatomists state, that the bottom of this fissure corresponds to the gray matter, except in the cervical region, and at a point corresponding to the enlargement in the lumbar region. Lateral Fissures. On either side of the anterior median fissure, a linear series of foramina may be observed, indicating the points, where the anterior roots of the spinal nerves emerge from the cord. This is called, by some anatomists, the anterior lateral fissure of the cord, although no actual fissure exists in this situation. On either side of the posterior median fissure, along the liiie of attachment of the posterior roots of the nerves, a delicate fissure may be seen, leading down to the gray matter which approaches the surface in this situation: this is called the posterior lateral fissvire of the spinal cord. On the posterior surface of the spinal cord, on either side of the posterior median fissure, is a slight longitudinal furrow, marking off two slender tracts, the posterior median columns. These are most distinct in the cervical region, but are stated by Foville to exist throughout the whole length of the cord. Columns of the Cord. The fissures divide each half of the spinal cord into four columns, an anterior column, a lateral column, a posterior column and a posterior median column. The anterior column includes all the portion of the cord between the anterior median fissure and the anterior lateral fissure, from which the anterior roots of the nerves arise. It is continuous with the anterior pyramid of the medulla oblongata. The lateral column, the largest segment of the cord, includes all the portion between the anterior and posterior l^iteral fissures. It is continuous with the lateral column of the medulla. By some anatomists, the anterior and lateral Fig. 255.—Spinal Cord, Side View. Plan of the Fissures and Columns.