EIGHTH PAIR. 55T Its hranches of communication are tliree, and occupy separate grooves on tlie surface of the promontory. One of these arches forwards and downwards to the carotid canal to join the carotid plexus. A second runs vertically upwards to join the greater superficial petrosal nerve, as it lies in the hiatus Fallopii. The third branch runs forwards and upwards towards the anterior surface of the petrous bone, and passes through a small aperture in the sjDhenoid and temporal bones, to the exterior of the skull, where it joins the otic ganglion. This nerve, in its course through the temporal bone, passes by the ganglionic enlargement of the facial, and has a connecting filament with it. The branches of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve are the carotid, pharyngeal, mus- cular, tonsillitic, and lingual. The carotid branches descend along the trunk of the internal carotid artery as far as its point of bifurcation, communicating with the pharyngeal branch of the pneumogastric, and with branches of the sympathetic. ■ The 2)haryngeal branches are three or four filaments which unite opposite the Middle constrictor of the pharynx with the pharyngeal branches of the pneumo- gastric, superior laryngeal, and sympathetic nerves, to form the pharyngeal plexus, branches from which perforate the muscular coat of the pharynx to sujDply the mucous membrane. The muscular hranches are distributed to the Stylo-pharyngeus. The tonsillitic hranches supply the tonsil, forming a plexus (circulus tonsillaris) around this body, from which branches are distributed to the soft palate and fauces, where they anastomose with the palatine nerves. The lingual hranches are two in number; one supplies the mucous membrane covering the surface of the base of the tongue, the other perforates its substance, and supplies the mucous membrane and papillse of the side of the organ. (2.) Pneumogastric or Par Vagum Nerve. The Pneumogastric Nerve {nervios vagus or pcor vagum), one of the three divisions of the eighth pair, has a more extensive distribution than any of the other cranial nerves, passing through the neck and cavity of the chest to the upjier part of the abdomen. It is composed of both motor and sensitive filaments. It supplies the organs of voice and respiration with motor and sensitive fibres, and the pharynx, oesophagus, stomach, and heart with motor influence. Its siqwrficial origin is by eight or ten filaments from the lateral tract immediately behind the olivary body, and below the glosso-pharyngeal; its fibres may, however, be traced deeply through the fasciculi of the medulla, to terminate in a gray nucleus near the lower part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The filaments become united, and form a flat cord, which passes outwards across the flocculus to the jugular foramen, through which it emerges from the cranium. In passing through this opening, the pneumogastric accompanies the spinal accessory, being contained in the same sheath of dura mater with it, a membranous septum separating it from the glosso-pharyngeal, which lies in front. The nerve in this situation presents a well-marked ganglionic enlargement, which is called ganglion jugulate or the ganglion of the root of the pneumogastric; to it the accessory part of the spinal accessory nerve is connected. After the exit of the nerve from the jugular foramen, a second gangliform swelling is formed upon it, called the ganglion infe- rius or the ganglion of the trunk of the nerve; below which it is again joined by filaments from the spinal accessory nerve. The nerve descends the neck in a straight direction within the sheath of the carotid vessels, lying between the internal caro- tid artery and internal jugular vein as far as the thyroid cartilage, and then be- tween the same vein and the common carotid to the root of the neck. lEere the course of the nerve becomes different on the two sides of the body. On the right side, the nerve passes across the subclavian artery between it and the subclavian vein, and descends by the side of the trachea to the back part of the root of the lung, where it spreads out in a plexiform network (posterior pulmonary),