DEVELOPMENT OF SACRUM. 53 Fig. 17.—Development of Sacrum. of 5 VerteircB. formed i y unison characterL stLc -points. 2 Aiiitional \:entres J'or the first 3pieces at birtA. it on eacli side are the superior articular processes; they are oval, concave, directed backwards and inwards, like the superior articular processes of a lumbar vertebra; in front of each articular process is an intervertebral notch, which forms the lower half of the last intervertebral foramen. Lastly, on each side of the articular surface is a broad and flat triangular surface of bone, which extends outwards, and is continuous on each side with the iliac fossa. The Apex, directed downwards and forwards, presents a small oval concave surface for articulation with the coccyx. The Sacral Canal runs throughout the greater part of the bone; it is large and triangular in form above, small and flattened from before backwards below. In this situation its posterior wall is incomplete, from the non-development of the laminae and spinous processes. It lodges the sacral nerves, and is perforated by the anterior and posterior sacral foramina, through which these pass out. Structure. It consists of much loose spongy tissue within, invested exter- nally by a thin layer of compact tissue. DiFFERKNCES IN THE SaCRUM OF THE Male And Female. The sacrum in the female is usually wider than in the male; and it is much less curved, the upper half of the bone being nearly straight, the lower half presenting the greatest amount of curvature. The bpne is also directed more obliquely backwards; which increases the size of the pelvic cavity, and forms a more pro- minent sacro-vertebral angle. In the male, the curvature is more evenly dis- tributed over the whole length of the bone, and is altogether greater than in the female. Peculiarities of the Sacrum. This bone, in some cases, consists of six pieces; occasionally the number is reduced to four. Sometimes the bodies of the first and second segments are not joined, or the laminse and spinous processes have not coalesced. Occa- sionally, the upper pair of transverse tubercles are not joined to the rest of the bone on one or both sides; and, lastly, the sacral canal may be open for nearly the lower half of the bone, in consequence of the imperfect develop- ment of the lamina3 and spinous pro- cesses. The sacrum, also, varies con- siderably with respect to its degree of curvature. From the examination of a large number of skeletons, it would appear, that, in one set of cases, the anterior surface of this bone was nearly straight, the curvature, which was very slight, affecting only its lower end. In another set of cases, the bone was curved throughout its whole length, but especially towards its middle. In FiK-18. at A\ y'rs Fig. 19. 2 Epipliysal lammce Jor each Intefal surface. at 25