PORTAL SYSTEM. opposite the junction of the two venae innominatse, the left in the left superior intercostal or left internal mammary. The iwo inferior phrenic veins foWoyr the course of the inferior phrenic arteries, and terminate, the right in the inferior vena cava, the left in the left renal vein. The hepatic veins commence in the suhstance of the liver, in the capillary ter- minations of the vena portse; these branches, gradually uniting, form three large veins, which converge towards the posterior border of the liver, and open into the inferior vena cava, whilst that vessel is situated in the groove at the back part of this organ. Of these three veins, one from the right and another from the left lobes open obliquely into the vena cava; that from the middle of the organ and lobus Spigelii having a straight course. The hepatic veins run singly, and are in direct contact with the hepatic tissue. They are destitute of valves. PORTAL SYSTEM OF VEINS. The portal venous system is composed of four large veins, which collect the venous blood from the viscera of digestion. The trunk formed by their union, the vena portae, enters the liver, ramifies throughout its substance, and its branches, again emerging from that organ as the hepatic veins, terminate in the inferior vena cava. The branches of this vein are in all cases single, and destitute of valves. The veins forming the portal system are the Inferior mesenteric. Splenic. Superior mesenteric. Gastric. The inferior mesenteric vein returns the blood from the rectum, sigmoid flexure, and descending colon, corresponding with the ramifications of the branches of the inferior mesenteric artery. Ascending beneath the peritoneum in the lumbar region, it passes behind the transverse portion of the duodenum and pancreas, and terminates in the splenic vein. Its hemorrhoidal branches inosculate with those of the internal iliac, and thus establish a communication between the portal and the general venous system. The superior mesenteric vein returns the blood from the small intestines, and from the cascum and ascending and transverse portions of the colon, correspond- ing with the distribution of the branches of the superior mesenteric artery. The large trunk formed by the union of these branches ascends along the right side and in front of the corresponding artery, passes in front of the transverse portion of the duodenum, and unites behind the upper border of the pancreas with the splenic vein, to form the vena portse. The splenic vein commences by five or six large branches, which return the blood from the substance of the spleen. These uniting form a single vessel, which passes from left to right behind the upper border of the pancreas, and terminates at its greater end by uniting at a right angle with the superior mesenteric to form the vena portae. The splenic vein is of large size, and not tortuous like the artery. It receives the vasa brevia from the left extremity of the stomach, the left gastro-epiploic vein, pancreatic branches from the pancreas, the pancreatico- duodenal vein, and the inferior mesenteric vein. The gastric is a vein of small size, which accompanies the gastric artery from left to right along the lesser curvature of the stomach, and terminates in the vena portae. The Portal Vein is formed by the junction of the superior mesenteric and splenic veins, their union taking place in front of the vena cava, and behind the upper border of the great end of the pancreas. Passing upwards through the right border of the lesser omentum to the under surface of the liver, it enters the transverse fissure, where it is somewhat enlarged, forming the sinus of the portal vein, and divides into two branches, which accompany the ramifications of the