SUPRA-HYOID REGION. 259 Tlie Digastric consists of two fleshy bellies united by an intermediate rounded tendon. It is a small muscle, situated below the side of the body of the lower jaw, and extending, in a curved form, from the side of the head to the symphysis of the jaw. The posterior belly, longer than the anterior, arises from the di- gastric groove on the inner side of the mastoid process of the temporal bone, and passes downwards, forwards, and inwards. The anterior helly, being reflected upwards and forwards, is inserted into a depression on the inner side of the lower border of the jaw, close to the symphysis. The tendon of the muscle perforates the Stylo-hyoid, and is held in connection with the side of the body of the hyoid bone by an aponeurotic loop, lined by a synovial membrane. A broad aponeurotic layer is given off from the tendon of the Digastric on each side, which is attached to the body and great cornu of the hyoid bone: this is termed the supra-hyoid aponeurosis. It forms a strong layer of fascia between the anterior portion of the two muscles, and a firm investment for the other muscles of the supra-hyoid region which lie beneath it. The Digastric muscle divides the anterior superior triangle of the neck into two smaller triangles. The upper or submaxillary triangle is bounded, above, by the lower jaw, and mastoid process; below, by the two bellies of the Digastric muscle: the lower or superior carotid triangle being bounded, above, by the posterior belly of the Digastric; behind, by the Sterno-mastoid; below, by the Omo-hyoid. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Platysma, Sterno-mastoid and Trachelo-mastoid, part of the Stylo-hyoid muscle, and the parotid and submaxillary glands. By its deep surface, the anterior belly lies on the Mylo-hyoid ; the pos- terior belly on the Stylo-glossus, Stylo-pharyngeus, and Hyo-glossus muscles, the external carotid and its lingual and facial branches, the internal carotid, internal jugular vein, and hypoglossal nerve. The Stylo-hyoid is a small, slender muscle, lying in front of, and above, the posterior belly of the Digastric. It arises from the middle of the outer surface of the styloid process; and, passing downwards and forwards, is inserted into the body of the hyoid bone, just at its junction with the greater cornu, and immedi- ately above the Omo-hyoid. This muscle is perforated, near its insertion, by the tendon of the Digastric. Relations. The same as the posterior belly of the ©igastric. The Digastric and Stylo-hyoid should be removed, in order to expose the next muscle. The Mylo-hyoid is a flat triangular muscle, situated immediately beneath the anterior belly of the Digastric, and forming, with its fellow of the opposite side, a muscular floor for the cavity of the mouth. It arises from the whole length of the mylo-hyoid ridge, from the symphysis in front, to the last molar tooth behind. The posterior fibres pass obliquely forwards, to be inserted into the body of the OS hyoides. The middle and anterior fibres are inserted into a median fibrous raphe, where they join at an angle with the fibres of the opposite muscle. This median raphe is sometimes wanting; the muscular fibres of the two sides are then directly continuous with one another. Relations. By its cutaneous surface, with the Platysma, the anterior belly of the Digastric, the supra-hyoid fascia, the submaxillary gland, and submental vessels. By its deep or superior surface, with the Grenio-hyoid, part of the Hyo-glossus, and Stylo-glossus muscles, the lingual and gustatory nerves, the sublingual gland, and the buccal mucous membrane. Wharton's duct curves round its posterior border in its passage to the mouth. Dissection. The Mylo-hyoid should now be removed, in order to expose the muscles which lie beneath; this is effected by detaching it from its attachments to the hyoid bone and jaw, and separating it by a vertical incision from its fellow of the opposite side. The Genio-hyoid is a narrow slender muscle, situated immediately beneath the inner border of the preceding. It arises from the inferior genial tubercle on the inner side of the symphysis of the jaw, and passes downwards and backwards, tc