539 FOTJRTH—SIXTH. origin, by a transverse band of wliite fibres, which crosses the surface of the velum. The nerve winds round the outer side of the crus cerebri, immediately above the pons Yarolii, pierces the dura mater in the free border of the tentorium cerebelli, near the posterior clinoid process, above the oval opening for the fifth nerve, and passes forwards through the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, below the third; but, as it enters the orbit, through the sphenoidal fissure, it becomes the highest of all the nerves. In the orbit, it passes inwards, above the origin of the Levator palpebral, and finally enters the orbital surface of the Superior oblique muscle. In the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, this nerve receives some filaments from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic. It is not unfrequently blended with the ophthalmic division of the fifth; and occasionally gives off a branch to assist in the formation of the lachrymal nerve. It also gives off a recurrent branch, which passes backwards between the layers of the tentorium, dividing into two or three filaments, which may be traced as far back as the Avail of the lateral sinus. The Sixth or Abducens Nerve supplies the External rectus muscle. Its apparent origin is by several filaments from the constricted part of the corpus pyramidale, close to the pons, or from the lower border of the pons itself. The deep origin of this nerve has been traced by Mayo, between the fasciculi of the corpus pyramidale, to the posterior part of the medulla, where Stilling has shown its connection with a gray nucleus in the floor of the fourth ventricle. The nerve pierces the dura mater, immediately below the posterior clinoid pro- cess, lying in a groove by the side of the body of the sphenoid bone. It passes forwards through the cavernous sinus, lying on the outer side of the internal carotid artery, where it is joined by several filaments from the carotid plexus, by one from Meckel's ganglion (Bock), and another from the ophthalmic nerve. It enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, and lies above the ophthalmic vein, from which it is separated by a lamina of dura mater. It then passes between the two heads of the External rectus, and is distributed to that muscle on its ocular surface. The above-mentioned nerves, as well as the ophthalmic division of the fifth, as they pass to the orbit, bear a certain relation to each other in the cavernous Fig. 276.—Nerves of the Orbit and Oplitlialmic Ganglion. Side view. Sixth or Abducens Nerve. Eelations of the Orbital JSTerves.