412 ARTERIES. divided, and the Supinator longus drawn a little outwards, the artery will be exposed. The venae comites should be carefully separated from the vessel, and the ligature passed from the radial to the ulnar side. In the middle third of the forearm the artery may be exposed by making an incision of similar length on the inner margin of the Supinator longus. In this situation the radial nerve lies in close relation with the outer side of the artery, and should, as well as the veins, be carefully avoided. In the lower third, the artery is easily secured by dividing the integument and fascije in the interval between the tendons of the Supinator Longus and Flexor carpi radialis muscles. Tlie branches of tlie radial artery may be divided into three groups, correspond- ing with the three regions in which this vessel is situated. In the Forearm. f Eadial recurrent. ) Muscular. Superficialis volae. Anterior carpal. Hand, i Wrist, i Princeps pollicis. Radialis indicis. Perforantes. Interosseas. r Posterior carpal. Metacarpal. Dorsales pollicis. Dorsalis indicis. The radial recurrent is given off' immediately below the elbow. It ascends between the branches of the musculo-spiral nerve, lying on the Supinator brevis, and then between the Supinator longus and Brachialis anticus, supplying these muscles, the elbow-joint, and anastomosing with the terminal branches of the superior profunda. The muscular branches are distributed to the muscles on the radial side of the forearm. The superficiaMs volse arises from the radial artery, just where this vessel is about to Avind round the wrist. Running forwards, it passes between the muscles of the thumb, which it supplies, and anastomoses with the termination of the ulnar artery, completing the superficial palmar arch. This vessel varies considerably in size, usually being very small, and terminating in the muscles of the thumb; sometimes it is as large as the continuation of the radial. The carpal brandies supply the joints of the wrist. The anterior carpal is a small vessel which arises from the radial artery near the lower border of the Pro- nator quadratus, and, running inwards in front of the radius, anastomoses with the anterior carpal branch of the ulnar artery. From the arch thus formed, branches descend to supply the articulations of the Avrist. The pjosterior carpal is a small vessel which arises from the radial artery beneath the Extensor tendons of the thumb; crossing the carpus transversely to the inner border of the hand, it anastomoses .with the posterior carpal branch of the ulnar. It sends branches upwards, which anastomose with the termination of the ante- rior interosseous artery ; other branches descend to the metacarpal spaces; they are the dorsal iiiterosseous arteries for the third and fourth interosseous spaces, and anastomose with the posterior perforating branches from the deep palmar arch. The metacarpal {first dorsal interosseous brayich) arises beneath the Extensor tendons of the thumb, sometimes with the posterior carpal artery, running for- wards on the second Dorsal interosseous muscle; communicating, behind, with the corresponding perforating branch of the deep palmar arch; and, in front, inosculating with the digital branch of the superficial palmar arch, and supplying the adjoining sides of the index and middle fingers. The dorsales pollicis are two small vessels which run along the sides of the dorsal aspect of the thumb. They sometimes arise separately, or occasionally by a common trunk, near the base of the first metacarpal bone. The dorsalis indicis, also a small branch, runs along the radial side of the back of the index finger, sending a few branches to the Abductor indicis.