PHRENIC AND LUMBAR. 42t ureter, the vein being -usnally in front, the ureter behind. Each vessel gives off some small branches to the supra-renal capsules, the ureter, and to the surround- ino: cellular membrane and muscles. Speematic Abteries. The Spermatic Arteries are distributed to the testes in the male, and to the ovaria in the female. They are two slender vessels, of considerable length, which arise from the front of the aorta, a little below the renal arteries. Each artery passes obliquely outwards and downwards, behind the peritoneum, cross- ing the ureter, and resting on the Psoas muscle, the right spermatic lying in front of the inferior vena cava, the left behind the sigmoid flexure of the colon. On reaching the margin of the pelvis, each vessel passes in front of the corresponding external iliac artery, and takes a different course in the two sexes. In the male, it is directed outwards, to the internal abdominal ring, and accompanies the other constituents of the spermatic cord along the spermatic canal to the testis, where it becomes tortuous, and divides into several branches, two or three of which accompany the vas deferens, and supply the epididymis, anastomosing with the artery of the vas deferens; others pierce the back part of the tunica albuginea, and supply the substance of the testis. At an early period of foetal life, when the testes lie by the side of the spine, below the kidneys, the spermatic arteries are short; but as these organs descend front the abdomen into the scrotum, they become gradually lengthened. In the female, the spermatic arteries (ovarian) are shorter than in the male, and do not pass out of the abdominal cavity. On arriving at the margins of the pelvis, each artery passes inwards, between the two laminae of the broad ligament of the uterus, to be distributed to the ovary. One or two small branches supply the Fallopian tube; another passes on to the side of the uterus, and anastomoses with the uterine arteries. Other offsets are continued along the round li2:ament, through the inguinal canal, to the integument of the labium and groin. Phrenic Arteries. The Phrenic Arteries are two small vessels, which present much variety in their origin. They may arise separately from the front of the aorta, immediately below the cceliac axis, or by a common trunk, which may spring either from the aorta, or from the cceliac axis. Sometimes one is derived from the aorta, and the other from one of the renal arteries. In only one out of thirty-six cases, did these arteries arise as two separate vessels from the aorta. They diverge from one another across the crura of the Diaphragm, and then pass obliquely upwards and outwards upon its under surface. The left phrenic passes behind the oesophagu.s, and runs forwards on the left side of the oesophageal opening. The right phrenic passes behind the liver and inferior vena cava, and ascends along the right side of the aperture for transmitting that vein. Near the back part of the central tendon^ each vessel divides into two branches. The internal branch runs forwards to the front of the thorax, supplying the Diaphragm, and anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the musculo-phrenic, a branch of the internal mammary. The external branch passes towards the side of the thorax, and in- osculates with the intercostal arteries. The internal branch of the right phrenic gives off a few vessels to the inferior vena cava; and the left one some branches to the oesophagus. Each vessel also sends capsular branches to the supra-renal capsule of its own side. The spleen on the left side, and the liver on the right, also receive a few branches from these vessels. Lumbar Arteries. The Lumbar Arteries are analogous to the intercostal. They are usually four in number on each side, and arise from the back part of the aorta, nearly at right angles with that vessel. They pass outwards and backwards, around the sides of