MUSCLES AND FASCIA. 296 Relations. By its anterior surface, with tlie Platysma, the mammary gland, the superficial fascia, and integument. By its ]^osterior surface: its thoracic portion, with the sternum, the ribs and costal cartilages, the Subclavius, Pectoralis minor, Serratus magnus, and the Intercostals; its axillary portion forms the anterior wall of the axillary space, and covers the axillary vessels and nerves. Its upper harder lies parallel with the Deltoid, from which it is separated by the cephalic vein and descending branch of the thoracico-acromialis artery. Its lower border forms the anterior margin of the axilla, being at first separated from the Latissimus dorsi by a considerable interval; but both muscles gradually converge towards the outer part of this space. Peculiarities. In muscular subjects, the sternal origins of the two Pectoral muscles are separated only by a narrow interval; but this interval is enlarged where these muscles are ill- developed. Very rarely, the whole of the sternal portion is deficient. Occasionally, one or two additional muscular slips arise from the aponeurosis of the External oblique, and become united to the lower margin of the Pectoralis major. A slender muscular slip is occasionally found lying parallel with the outer margin of the sternum, overlapping the origin of the Pectoral muscle. It is attached, by one end, to the upper part of the sternum, near the origin of the Sterno-mastoid; and, by the other, to the anterior wall of the sheath of the Eectus abdominis. It has received the name "Rectus sternalis." Dissection. The Pectoralis major should now be detached by dividing the muscle along its attachment to the clavicle, and by making a vertical incision through its substance a little external to its line of attachment to the sternum and costal cartilages. The muscle should then be reflected outwards, and its tendon carefully examined. The Pectoralis minor is now exposed, and imme- diately above it, in the interval between its upper border and the clavicle, is a strong fascia, the costo-coracoid membrane. The costo-coracoid membrane protects the axillary vessels and nerves, and is very thick and dense externally, where it is attached to the coracoid process, and is continuous with the fascia of the arm; more internally, it is connected with the lower border of the clavicle, as far as the inner extremity of the first rib: traced downwards, it passes behind the Pectoralis minor, surrounding in a more or less complete sheath, the axillary vessels and nerves; and above, it sends a prolongation behind the Subclavius, which is attached to the lower border of the clavicle, and so incloses the muscle in a kind of sheath. The costo-coracoid membrane is pierced by the cephalic vein, the acromial-thoracic artery and vein, superior thoracic artery, and anterior thoracic nerve. The Pectoralis minor (fig. 170) is a thin, flat, triangular muscle, situated at the upper part of the thorax, beneath the Pectoralis major. It arises, by three tendinous digitations, from the upper margin and outer surface of the third, fourth, and fifth ribs, near their cartilages, and from the aponeurosis covering the Inter-, costal muscles: the fibres pass upwards and outwards, and converge to form a flat tendon, which is inserted into the anterior border of the coracoid process of the scapula. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the Pectoralis major, and the superior thoracic vessels and nerves. By its posterior surface, with the ribs, Intercostal muscles, Serratus magnus, the axillary space, and the axillary vessels and nerves. Its upper border is separated from the clavicle by a triangular interval, broad internally, narrow externally, bounded in front by the costo-coracoid membrane, and internally by the ribs. In this space arre seen the axillary vessels and nerves. The costo-coracoid membrane should now be removed, when the Subclavius muscle will be seen. The Subclavius (fig. 170) is a long, thin, spindle-shaped muscle, placed in the interval between the clavicle and the first rib. It arises by a short, thick tendon, from the cartilage of the first rib, in front of the rhomboid ligament; the fleshy fibres proceed obliquely outwards to be inserted into a deep groove on the under surface of the middle third of the clavicle. Relations. By its uj^per surface, with the clavicle. By its under surface, it is separated from the first rib by the axillary vessels and nerves. Its anterior