555 EIGHTH PAIR. Fig. 283.—Origin of the Eighth Pair, their Oauglia and Communications. (4.) Submaxillary Ganglion. The Submaxillary Ganglion (fig. 280) is of small size, circular in form, and situated above the deep portion of the submaxillary gland, near the posterior border of the Mylo-hyoid muscle, being connected by filaments with the lower border of the gustatory nerve. Branches of communication. This ganglion is connected with the gustatory nerve, by a few filaments which join it separately, at its fore and back part. _ It also receives a branch from the chorda tympani, by which it commvinicates Avith the facial; and communicates with the sympathetic by filaments from the nervi moUes, surrounding the facial artery. Bratiches of distribution. These are five or six in number; they arise from the lower part of the ganglion, and supply the mucous membrane of the mouth and Wharton's duct, some being lost in the submaxillary gland. According to Meckel, a branch from this ganglion occasionally descends in front of the Hyo-glossus muscle, and, after joining with one from' the hypoglossal, passes to the Genio- hyo-glossus muscle. Eighth Pair. The eighth pair consists of three nerves, the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and spinal accessory. (1.) Glosso-pharyngeal ISTerve. The Glosso-pharyngeal Nerve is distributed, as its name implies, to the tongue and pharynx, being the nerve of sensation to the mucous membrane of the pharynx, fauces, and tonsil; of motion, to the Pharyngeal muscles, and a special nerve of taste, in all the parts of the tongue to which it is distributed. It is the smallest of the three divisions of the eighth pair, and arises by three or four filaments, closely connected together, from the upper part of the medulla oblongata, immediately behind the olivary body. Its deep origin may be traced through the fasciculi of the lateral tract, to a nucleus of gray matter at the lower part of the floor of the fourth ventricle, external to the fasciculi teretes. From its superficial origin, it passes outwards across the flocculus, and leaves the skull at the central part of the jugular foramen, in a separate sheath of the dura mater and arachnoid, in front of the pneumogastric and spinal accessory nerves. In its passage through the jugular foramen, it grooves the lower border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone; and, at its exit from the skull, passes forwards between the jugular vein and internal carotid artery, and descends in front of the latter vessel, and beneath the styloid process and the muscles connected with it, to the lower border of the Stylo-pharyngeus. The nerve now curves inwards, forming an arch on the side of the neck, lying upon the Stylo-pharyngeus and the Middle constrictor of the pharynx, above the superior laryngeal nerve. It then passes beneath the Hyo-glossus, and is finally distributed to the mucous membrane of the fauces, and base of the tongue, the mucous glands of the mouth and tonsil. In passing through the jugular foramen, the nerve presents, in succession, two gangliform enlargements. The superior one, the smaller, is called the jugular ganglion; the inferior and larger one, the p)etrous ganglion or the ganglion of Andersch. The superior or jugular ganglion is situated in the upper part of the groove in which the nerve is lodged during its passage through the jugular foramen. It