LATERAL YENTRICLES. 523 serous fluid, which, is sometimes, even in health, secreted in considerable quantity. These cavities are two in number, one in each hemisphere, and they are separated from each other by a vertical septum, the septum lucidum. Each lateral ventricle consists of a central cavity or body, and three smaller cavities or cornua, which extend from it in different directions. The anterior cornu curves forwards and outwards, into the substance of the anterior lobe. The posterior cornu, called the digital cavity, cu-rves backwards into the posterior lobe. The middle cornu descends into the middle lobe. The central cavity or body of the lateral ventricle is triangular in form. It is bounded, above, by the under surface of the corpus callosum, which forms the roof of the cavity. Internally, is a vertical partition, the septum lucidum, which separates it from the opposite ventricle, and connects the under surface of the corpus callosum with the fornix. Its floor is formed by the following parts, enumerated in their order of position, from before backwards, the corpus striatum, taenia semicircularis, thalamus opticus, choroid plexus, corpus iimbriatum, and fornix. The anterior cornu is triangular in form, passing outwards into the anterior lobe, and curving round the anterior extremity of the corpus striatum. It is bounded, above and in front, by the corpus callosum; behind, by the corpus striatum. The posterior cornu or digital cavity curves backwards into the substance of the posterior lobe, its direction being backwards and outwards, and then inwards. On its floor is seen a longitudinal eminence, which corresponds with a deep sulcus between two convolutions; this is called the hippocampus minor. Between the middle and posterior horns, a smooth eminence is observed, which varies consi- derably in size in different subjects. It is called the eminentia collateralis. The corpus striatum has received its name from the striated appearance which , its section presents, from white fibres diverging through its substance. The intra- ventricular portion is a large pear-shaped mass, of a gray color externally; its broad extremity is directed forwards, into the forepart of the body, and anterior cornu of the lateral ventricle ; its narrow end is directed outwards and backwards, being separated from its fellow by the thalami optici; it is covered by the serous lining of the cavity, and crossed by some veins of considerable size. The extra- ventricular portion is imbedded in the white substance of the hemisphere. The tsenicc semicircularis is a narrow, whitish, semitransparent band of medul- lary substance, situated in the depression between the corpus striatum and thala- mus opticus. Anteriorly, it descends in connection with the anterior pillar of the fornix; behind, it is continued into the descending horn of the ventricle, where it becomes lost. Its surface, especially at its forepart, is transparent, and dense in structure, and was called by Tarinus the horny hand. It consists of longitu- dinal white fibres, the deepest of which run between the corpus striatum and thalamus opticus. Beneath it is a large vein, the vena corporis striati, which receives numerous smaller veins from the surface of the corpus striatum, and thalamus opticus, and terminates in the venas Galeni. The choroidptlexus is a highly vascular, fringe-like membrane, occupying the margin of the fold of pia mater {velum interpositum), in the interior of the brain. It extends, in a curved direction, across the floor of the lateral ventricle. In front, where it is small and tapering, it communicates with the choroid plexus of the opposite side, through a large oval aperture, the foramen of Monro. Posteriorly, it descends into the middle horn of the lateral ventricle, where it joins with the pia mater through the transverse fissure. In structure, it consists of minute and highly vascular villous processes, the villi being covered by a single layer of epithelium, composed of large round corpuscles, containing, besides a central nucleus, a bright yellow spot. The arteries of the choroid plexus enter the ven- tricle, at the descending cornu, and, after raraifyit g through its substance, send branches into the substance of the brain. The veins of the choroid plexus ter- minate in the vense Galeni.