VrLYA. tlie dartos of the scrotum, besides vessels, nerves, and glands. The labia are thicker in front than behind, and joined together at each extremity, forming the anterior and posterior commissures. The interval left between the posterior com- missure and the margin of the anus is about an inch in length, and constitutes the perineum. Just within the posterior commissure is a small, transverse fold, the frsenulum pudendi or fourchette, which is commonly ruptured in the first partu- rition, and the space between it and the commissure is called the fossa navicularis. The labia are analogous to the scrotum in the male. The labia minora or nymphse are two small folds of mucous membrane, situated within the labia majora, and extending from the clitoris obliquely downwards and outwards for about an inch and a half on each side of the orifice of the vagina, on the sides of which they are lost. They are continuous externally with the labia majora, internally with the inner surface of the vagina. As they con- verge towards the clitoris in front, each labium divides into two folds, which sur- round the glans clitoridis, the superior folds uniting to form the pr£eputium clito- ridis, the inferior folds being attached to-the glans, and forming the freenum. The nymphas are composed of mucous membrane, covered by a thin epithelial layer. They contain a plexus of vessels in their interior, and are provided with numer- ous large mucous crypts which secrete abundance of sebaceous matter. The clitoris is an erectile structure, analogous to the corpora cavernosa of the penis. It is situated beneath the anterior commissure, partially hidden between the anterior extremities of the labia minora. It is an elongated organ, connected to the rami of the pubes and ischia on each side by two crura; the body is short, and concealed beneath the labia; its free extremity, the glans clitoridis, is a small rounded tubercle, consisting of spongy erectile tissue, and highly sensitive. The clitoris consists of two corpora cavernosa, composed of erectile tissiTe inclosed in a dense layer of fibrous membrane, united together along their inner surfaces by an incomplete fibrous pectiniform septum. It is provided, lil^e the penis, with a suspensory ligament, and with two small muscles, the Erectores clitoridis, which are inserted into the crura of the corpora cavernosa. Between the clitoris and the entrance of the vagina is a triangular smooth surface, bounded on each side by the nymphae; this is the vestibule. The orifice of the urethra [meatus urinarius) is situated at the back part of the vestibule, about an inch below the clitoris, and near the margin of the vagina, stirrounded by a prominent elevation of the mucous membrane. Below the meatus urinarius is the orifice of the vagina, an elliptical aperture, more or less closed in the virgin by a membranous fold, the hymen. The hymen is a thin semilunar fold of mucous membrane, stretched across the lower part of the orifice of the vagina; its concave margin being turned upwards towards the pubes. Sometimes this membrane forms a complete septum across the orifice of the vagina, which constitutes an imperforate hymen. Occa- sionally, it forms a circular septum, perforated in the centre by a round open, ing; sometimes it is cribriform, or its free margin forms a membranous fringe, or it may be entirely absent. The hymen cannot, consequently, be considered as a proof of virginity. Its rupture, or the rudimentary condition of the membrane above referred to, gives rise to those small rounded elevations which surround the opening of the vagina, the carunculse myrtiformes. Glands of Bartholine. On each side of the commencement of the vagina is a round, or oblong body, of a reddish-yellow color, and of the size of a horse bean, analogous to Cowper's gland in the male. It is called the gland of Bartlioline. Each gland opens by means of a long single duct, upon the inner side of the nymphse, external to the hymen. Extending from the clitoris, along either side of the vestibule, and lying a little behind the nymphte, are two large oblong masses, about an inch in length, consisting of a plexus of veins, inclosed in a thin layer of fibrous membrane. These bodies are narrow in front, rounded below, and are connected with the crura ol the clitoris and rami of the pubes; they are termed by Kobelt, the bulbi vestibuli, and he considers them analogous to the bulb of