495 Nervous System. The N^ervous System consists of a series of connected central organs, called collectively, the cerebrospinal centre or axis, of the ganglia, and of the nerves. The cerebrospinal portion of the nervous system includes the brain and spinal cord, with the nerves connected with them, and the ganglia seated upon these nerves. It was distinguished, by Bichat, as the nervous system of animal life. It includes those nervous organs in and through which the several functions' of the mind are more immediately connected; the nerves of the senses, and those relating to volition and common sensation, are connected with it, as well as those concerned in many nervous actions, with which the mind has no connection. The ganglionic or sympathetic system consists of a double chain of ganglia connected by nervous cords, situate along the spinal column; and from which nerves with ganglia developed upon them proceed to the viscera in the thoracic, abdominal and pelvic cavities. It was distinguished, by Bichat, as the nervous system of organic life. This system is less immediately connected with the mind, appearing to be more closely concerned than the cerebro-spinal system with the processes of organic life. The several organs of the nervous system are composed of two different substances, which differ from each other in density, color, in their minute struc- ture, and in their chemical composition. They are called the vesicular nervous matter and the fibrous nervous matter. The former is often called the gray or cineritious substance; and the latter, the white or medullary. The fibrous nervous matter is most extensively diffused throughout the body. It forms a large portion of the nervous centres, either alone, or mixed with vesicular matter; and is the principal constituent of the nerves which connect them with the various tissues and organs. The vesicular nervous matter is "usually known by its soft consistence, and dark reddish-gray color; it is generally collected into masses intermingled with the fibrous structure, in various parts of the brain and spinal cord, and in the several ganglia. Chemical Composition. The following analysis by Lassaigne represents the relative proportion of the different constituents composing the gray and white matter of the brain :— Gray. White Water .... . 85.2 . 73.0 Albuminous matter . . 7.5 . 9.9 Colorless fat . 1.0 . 13.9 Eed fat ... . . 3.7 . 0.9 Osmazome and lactates . 1.4 . 1.0 Phosphates . 1.2 . 1.3 100.0 100.0 It appears from this analysis that the cerebral substance consists of albumen, dissolved in water, combined with fatty matters and salts. The fatty matters, according to Fr^my, consist of cerebric acid, which is most abundant, cholesterin, oleophosphoric acid, and olein, margarin, and traces of their acids. The same analyst states, that the fat contained in the brain is confined almost exclusively to the white substance, and that its color becomes lost when the fatty matters are removed. According to Vauquelin, the cord contains a larger proportion of fat