Organs of Yoice and Kespiration. The Larynx. The Larynx is the organ of voice, placed at the upper part of the air-passage. It is situated between the tracliea and base of the tongue, at the iipper and fore part of the neck, where it forms a considerable projection in the middle line. On either side of it lie the great vessels of the neck; behind, it forms part of the boundary of the pharynx, and is covered by the mucous membrane lining this cavity. The larynx is narrow and cylindrical below, but broad above, where it presents the form of a triangular box, being flattened behind and at the sides, whilst in front it is bounded by a prominent vertical ridge. It is composed of cartilages, connected together by ligaments, moved by numerous muscles, lined by mucous membrane, and supplied with vessels and nerves. The cartilages of the larynx are nine in number;—three single, and three pairs:— Thyroid. Two Arytenoid. Cricoid. Two Cornicula Laryngis. Epiglottis. Two Cuneiform. The Thyroid (Bvpso; fiSoj, like a shield) is the largest cartilage of the larynx. It consists of two lateral lamellae or alad, united at an acute angle in front, forming a vertical projection in the middle line, which is prominent above, and called the pomum Adami. This projection is subcu- taneous, more distinct in the male than in the female, and occasionally separated from the integument by a bursa mucosa. Each lamella is quadrilateral in form. Its outer surface presents an oblique ridge, which passes downwards and for- wards from a tubercle, situated near the root of the superior cornu. This ridge gives attachment to the Sterno-thyroid and Thyro-hyoid muscles; the portion of cartilage included between it and the poste- rior border, to part of the Inferior constric- tor muscle. - The inner surface of each ala is smooth, concave, and covered by mucous membrane above and behind; but in front, in the re- ceding angle formed by their junction, are attached the epiglottis, the true and false chord£e vocales, the Thyro-arytenoid and Thyro-epiglottidean muscles. The iqiper harder of the thyroid carti- lage is deeply notched in the middle line, immediately above the pOmum Adami, whilst on either side it is slightly concave. This border gives attachment throughout its whole extent to the thyro-hyoid membrane. The lower border is connected to the cricoid cartilage, in the median line, l)y the crico-thyroid membrane; and, on each side, by the Crico-thyroid muscle. 703 Fig. 355.—Side View of the Thyroid and Cricoid Cartilages.