90 OSTEOLOGY. forwards, outwards, and downwards, is of an oblong form, and rough for articulation with the superior maxillary bone. The posterior or sphenoidal surface is directed backwards, upwards, and inwards. It ordinarily presents a small half-cellular cavity which communicates with ,Fig. 52.—Left Palate Bone. Posterior View (enlarged). the sphenoidal sinus, and the margins of which are serrated for- articulation with the vertical part of the sphenoidal turbinated bone. The internal or ethmoidal surface is directed inwards, up- wards and forwards, and articu- lates with the lateral mass of the ethmoid bone. In some cases, the cellular cavity above-men- tioned opens on this surface of the bone; it then communicates with the posterior ethmoidal cells. More rarely it opens on both surfaces, and then commu- nicates with the posterior eth- moidal cells, and the sphenoidal sinus. The non-articular or free surfaces are the superior or or- bital, directed upwards and out- wards, of triangular form, concave, smooth, articulating with tne superior maxillary bone, and forming the back part of the floor of the orbit. The external or zygomatic surface, directed out- wards, backwards and downwards, is of an oblong form, smooth, and forms part of the zygomatic fossa. This surface is separated from the orbit by a smooth rounded border, which enters into the formation of the spheno-maxillary fissure. The Sphenoidal Process of the palate bone is a thin compressed plate, much smaller than the orbital, and directed upwards and inwards. It presents three surfaces and two borders. The superior surface, the smallest of the three, arti- culates with the horizontal part of the sphenoidal turbinated bone; it presents a groove which contributes to the formation of the pterygo-palatine canal. The internal surface is concave, and forms part of the outer wall of the nasal fossa. The external surface is divided into an articular, and a non-articular portion; the former is rough for articulation with the inner surface of the pterygoid process of the sphenoid; the latter is smooth, and forms part of the zygomatic fossa. The anterior border forms the posterior boundary of the spheno-palatine foramen. The posterior border, serrated at the expense of the outer table, articulates with the inner surface of the pterygoid process. The orbital and sphenoidal processes are separated from one another by a deep notch, which is converted into a foramen, the spheno-palatine, by articulation with the sphenoidal turbinated bone. Sometimes the two processes are united above, and form between them a complete foramen, or the notch is crossed by one or more spicula of bone, so as to form two or more foramina. In the articulated skull, this foramen opens into the back part of the outer wall of the superior meatus, and transmits the spheno-palatine vessels and nerves. Development. From a single centre, which makes its appearance at the angle of junction of the two plates of the bone. From this point ossification spreads, in- wards, to the horizontal plate; downwards, into the tuberosity; and upwards, into the vertical plate. In the foetus, the horizontal plate is much longer than the vertical; and even after it is fully ossified, the whole bone is remarkable for its shortness. Articulations. With seven bones: the sphenoid, ethmoid, superior maxillary, ijiferior turbinated, vomer, opposite palate, and sphenoidal turbinated.