NERVOUS SYSTEM. 504 columns are included together, under the name of the antero-lateral column, ■which forms rather more than two-thirds of the entire circumference of the cord. The posterior column is situated between the posterior median and posterior lateral fissures. It is continuous with the restiforra body of the medulla. The ])osterior median column is that narrow segment of the cord which is seen on each side of the posterior median fissure, usually included with the preceding, as the posterior column. Structure of the Cord. If a transverse section of the spinal cord be made, it will be seen to consist of white and gray nervous substance. The white matter is situated externally, and constitutes its chief portion. The gray substance occupies its centre, and is so arranged as to present on the surface of the section two crescentic masses placed one in each lateral half of the cord, united together by a transverse band of gray matter, the gray commissure. Each crescentic mass has an anterior and posterior horn. The posterior horn is long and narrow, and approaches the surface at the posterior lateral fissure, near which it presents a slight enlargement. The anterior horn is short and thick, and. does not quite reach the surface, but extends towards the point of attachment of the anterior roots of the nerves. Its margin presents a dentate or stellate appearance. Owing to this peculiar arrangement of the gray matter, the anterior and posterior horns projecting towards the surface, each half of the cord is divided, more or less completely, into three columns, anterior, middle, and posterior; the anterior and middle being joined to form the antero-lateral column, as the anterior horn does not quite reach the surface. The gray commissure, which connects the two crescentic masses of gray matter, is separated from the bottom of the anterior median fissure by the anterior white commissure; and, from the bottom of the posterior fissure by the posterior white commissure. The gray commissure consists of a transverse band of gray matter, and of white fibres, derived from the opposite half of the cord and the posterior roots of the nerves. The anterior commissure is Fig. 256.—Transverse Sections formed, partly of fibres from the anterior column, '^"'•'^ partly from the fibrils of the anterior roots of the spinal nerves, which decussate as they pass across from one to the other side. The mode of arrangement of the gray matter, and c^^otite MUdU tif Ctrvveal regB its amount in proportion to the white, vary in different parts of the cord. Thus, the posterior horns are long and narrow, in the cervical region; short and narrower, in the dorsal; short, but wider, in, the lumbar region. In the cervical region, the crescentic portions are small, the white matter more abundant 0£j)otitt Middit aj-Dorsal re^* than iu any other region of the cord. In the dorsal region, the gray matter is least developed, the white matter being also small in quantity. In the lumbar region, the gray matter is more abundant than in any other region of the cord. Towards the lower c-yo8iu zumiarregion, eud of thc cord, the whltc matter gradually ceases. The crescentic portions of the gray matter soon blend into a single mass, which forms the only constituent of its extreme point. The wliite snhstance of the cord consists of transverse, oblique, and longitudinal fibres, with bloodvessels and connective tissue. The transverse fibres proceed from the gray substance, and form with each other a kind of plexus between the bundles of longitudinal fibres with which many are continuous; while others reach the surface of the cord through fissures containing connective tissue. Within the gray substance they are continuous with the roots of the nerves, the processes of the nerve cells, and with the anterior and posterior commissures. The oblique fibres proceed from the gray substance both upwards and downwards : they form the deep strata of the white columns, and, after running