718 SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE PERINEUM. wlaicli separates the back part of tlie subjacent space into two, being incomplete in front. In rupture of the anterior portion of the urethra, accompanied by extravasation of Tirine, the fluid makes its way forwards, beneath this fascia, into the areolar Fig. 390.—The Perineum : the Integument and Superficial Layer of Superficial Fascia being reflected. tissue of the scrotum, penis, and anterior and lateral portions of the abdomen; it i^arely extends into the areolar tissue on the inner side of the thighs, or backAvards around the anus. This limitation of the extravasated fluid to the parts above- named is easy of explanation, when the attachments of the deep layer of the superficial fascia are considered. When this fascia is removed, the muscles con- nected with the penis and urethra will be exposed; these are, in the middle line, the Accelerator urinse; on each side, the Erector penis; and behind, the Trans- versus perinei. The Accelerator urinse is placed in the middle line of the perineum, immediately in front of the anus. It consists of two symmetrical halves, united along the median line by a tendinous raphe. It arises from the central tendon of the perineum, and from the median raphe in front. From this point, its fibres diverge like the plumes of a pen; the most posterior form a thin layer, which are lost on the anterior surface of the triangular ligament; the middle fibres encircle the bulb and adjacent part of the-corpus spongiosum, and join with the muscle of the opposite side, on the upper part of this body, in a strong aponeurosis; the anterior fibres, the longest and most distinct, spread out over the sides of the corpus cavernosum, to be inserted partly into this body, anterior to the Erector penis; partly termi- nating in a tendinous expansion, which covers the dorsal vessels of the penis. The latter fibres are best seen by dividing the muscle longitudinally, and dissecting it outwards from the surface of the urethra. A.ction. This muscle may serve to accelerate the flow of urine or semen