499 GENERAL ANATOMY. nection in the nerve centres, and in the different organs and tissues they supply; the former are called their central, the latter their peripheral terminations. As to the mode in which the nerve fibres are disposed in the nervous centres, it is probable that many originate from nerve corpuscles, in the manner before men- tioned; others probably form simple loops. As to the more exact mode of connection of the nerve fibres with the nerve corpuscles, it appears that more commonly as the fibre approaches the vesicle, the white substance of Schwann gradually disappears, and the tubular membrane expands, so as to envelope the corpuscle; the sheath, contracting at the opposite side of the corpuscle, is again continuous with the tubular sheath of the nerve fibre, a prolongation from the granular substance of the corpuscle extending for some distance along each part of the nerve tube, and taking the place of the usual elements of the nerve fibre. Whether this relation of nerve fibres to ganglion-corpuscles is common to all kinds of nerve fibres, has yet to be determined. In the peripheral distribution of the nerves, small bundles of nerve fibres com- monly form delicate plexuses; these, dividing, give off the primitive fibres, which are disposed of in various ways in different tissues.—1. Occasionally the elemen- tary fibres are disposed in loops, as has been found in the internal ear, in the papilla of the tongue and of the skin, in the tooth pulp, and in striped muscular tissue; each fibre, after issuing from a branch in a terminal plexus, runs over or through the substance of the tissue, and, turning back, joins the same or a neigh- boring branch, in which it probably passes back to a nervous centre. 2. Some- times each ultimate nerve fibre divides into several branches, which spread out in the siiibstance of the tissue, as is seen in the retina, in the muscular tissue of the frog and lower vertebrata. 3. Sometimes the ultimate nerve fibres form minute plexuses, as in certain serous membranes, viz., the peritoneum, and in the pia mater of the brain and cord. 4. Not uncommonly the nerve fibres terminate hj free ends, as is seen in the Pacinian corpuscles, and in some of the papillae of the skin. 6. Occasionally, the nerve fibres are brought into direct connection with nerve- corpuscles, as in the retina and in the lamina spiralis of the internal ear. Some nerve fibres have no peripheral termination. Gerber has shown, that nerve fibres occasionally form loops, by their j unction with a neighboring fibre in the same fasciculus, and return to the cerebro-spinal centre without having any peripheral termination. These he considers to be sentient nerves, appropriated exclusively to the nerve itself, the nervi nervorum, upon which the sensibility of the nerve depends, and quite exclusive of the sensation produced by an impression made at the peripheral end of the nerve. These fibres bear some analogy to those met with in the back part of the optic commissure, where a set of fibres passes from one optic tract across the commissure to the opposite tract, having no com- munication with the optic nerve; also in the communications formed between the cervical nerves and spinal accessory and descendens noni, the nerve fibres forming an arch connected by each extremity with the cerebro-spinal centre, and having no peripheral termination. Again, some nerve fibres would appear to have no central connection with the cerebro-spinal centre, as those forming the most anterior part of the optic com- missure. These inter-retinal fibres, as they are called, commence in the retina, pass along the optic nerve, and across the commissure to the optic nerve and retina of the opposite side. The point of connection of a nerve with the brain or spinal cord is called, for convenience of description, its origin or root. If the fasciculi of which the nerve is composed should all arise at or near one point, or along one tract, the root is called single. If, on the contrary, the fasciculi divide into two separate bundles, which are connected at two different points with any part of the cerebro-spinal centre, such nerve is said to have a double origin, or to arise by two roots, each of which may have a separate function, as in the spinal nerves. The point where the separate fasciculi of a nerve are connected to the surface of the cerebro-spinal