CEREBELLUM. « 631 The median lobe is tlie fundamental part, and in some animaiS, as fislies and reptiles, the only part which exists; the hemispheres being additions, and attaining their maximum in man. The hemispheres are separated, in front, by a deep notch, the incisura cerebelli anterior, which encircles the corpora quadrigemina behind; they are also separated by a similar notch behind, the incisura cerehelli posterior, in which is received the upper part of the falx cerebelli. The superior vermiform process (upper part of the median lobe of the cerebellum), extends from the notch on the anterior to that on the posterior border. It is divided into three lobes: the hhulus centralis, a small lobe, situated in the incisura anterior; the monticulus cere- belli, the central projecting part of the process; and the commissura simplex, a small lobe near the incisura posterior. The under surface of the cerebellum (fig. 271) is subdivided into two lateral hemispheres by a depression, the valley, which extends from before backwards in the middle line. The lateral hemispheres are lodged in the inferior occipital fossae; the median depression, or valley, receives the back part of the medulla oblongata, is broader in the centre than at either extremity, and has, projecting from its floor, part of the median lobe of the cerebellum, called the inferior vermiform process. The parts entering into the composition of this body are, from behind forwards, the Fig. 271.—Under Surface of ilie Cereoellum. commissura hrevis, situated in the incisura posterior; in front of this, a laminated conical projection, the pyramid; more anterior, is a larger eminence, the uvula, placed between the two rounded lobes which occupy the sides of tlie valley, the amygdalae, and connected with them by a commissure of gray matter, indented on the surface, called the furrowed hand. In front of the uvula is the nodule; it is the anterior pointed termination of the inferior vermiform process, and projects into the cavity of the fourth ventricle; it has been named by Malacarne the laminated tubercle. On each side of the nodule is a thin layer of white substance, attached externally to the flocculus, and internally to the nodule, and to a corre- sponding part on the opposite side; they form together the posterior medullary velum or commissure of the flocculus. It is usually covered in and concealed by the amygdalae, and cannot be seen until these are drawn aside. This band is of a semilunar form on each side, its anterior margin being free and concave, its posterior being attached just in front of the furrowed band. Between it and the nodulus and uvula behind, is a deep fossa, called the swallow's nest {nidus hirun- dinis). Lohes of the cerebellum. Each hemisphere is divided into an upper and a lower portion by the great horizontal fissure, which commences in front at the pons, and passes horizontally round the free margin of either hemisphere, backwrrds to the middle line. From this primary fissure numerous secondary fissures proceed, which separate the cerebellum into lobes.