TRACHEA. 713 The last cartilage is thick and broad in the middle, in consequence of its lower border being prolonged downwards, and, at the same time, curved backwards, at the point of bifurcation of the trachea. It terminates on each side in an imper- fect ring, which incloses the commencement of the bronchi. The cartilage above the last is somewhat broader than the Vest at its centre. Two or more of the cartilages often unite, partially or completely, and are sometimes bifurcated at their extremities. They are highly elastic, and seldom ossify, even in advanced life. In the right bronchus, the cartilages vary in number from six to eight; in the left, from nine to twelve. They are shorter and narrower than those of the trachea. The Muscular Fihres are disposed in two layers, longitudinal and transverse. The longitudinal fibres are the most external, and arise by minute tendons from the termination of the tracheal cartilages, and from the fibrous membrane. The transverse fibres, the most internal, form a thin layer, which extends trans- versely between the ends of the cartilages, at the posterior part of the trachea. The muscular fibres are of the unstriped variety. The Elastic Fihres are situated beneath the mucous membrane, inclosing the entire cylinder of the trachea; they are most abundant at its posterior part, where they are collected into longitudinal bundles. The Mucous Membrane lining the tube is covered with columnar ciliated epithelium. It is continuous with that lining the larynx. The Tracheal Glands are found in great abundance at the posterior part of the trachea. They are small, flattened, ovoid bodies, placed between the fibrous and muscular coats, each furnished with an excretory duct, which opens on the surface of the mucous membrane. Some glands of smaller size are also found at the sides of the trachea, between the layers of fibrous tissue connecting the rings, and others immediately beneath the mucous coat. The secretion from these glands serves to lubricate the inner surface of the trachea. Vessels and Nerves. The trachea is supplied with blood by the inferior thyroid arteries. The veins terminate in the thyroid venous plexus. The nerves are derived from the pneumogastric and its recurrent branches, and from the sympa^ thetic. Surgical Anatomy. The air-passage may be opened in three different situations ; through the crico-thyroid membrane [larynyotomy), through the cricoid cartilage and upper ring of the trachea {laryngo-fracheofomy), or through the "trachea below the isthmus of the thyroid gland (tracheotomy). The student should, therefore, carefully consider the relative anatomy of the air-tube in each of these situations. Beneath the integument of the laryngo-tracheal region, on either side of the median line, are the two anterior jugular veins. Their size and position vary; there is nearly always one, and frequently two : at the lower part of the neck they diverge, passing beneath the Sterno-mastoid muscles, and are frequently connected by a transverse communicating branch. These veins should, if possible, always be avoided in any operation on the larynx or trachea. If cut through, considerable hemorrhage is the result. Beneath the cervical fascia are the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, the contiguous edges of the former being near the median line, and beneath these muscles the following parts are met with, from above downwards; the thyroid cartilage, the crico-thyroid membrane, the cricoid cartilage, the trachea, and the isthmus of the thyroid gland. The crico-thyroid space is very superficial, and may be easily felt, beneath the skin, as a depressed spot, about an inch below the pomum Adami: it is crossed transversely by a small artery, the crico-thyroid, the division of which is seldom accompanied by any troublesome hemorrhage. The isthmus of the thyroid gland usually crosses the second and third rings of the trachea; above it, is found a large transverse communicating branch between the superior thyroid veins, and the isthmus is covered by a venous plexus, formed between the thyroid veins of opposite sides. On the sides of the thyroid gland, and Ijelow it, the veins converge to a single median vessel, or to two trunks which descend along the median line of the front of the trachea, to open into the innominate veins by valved orifices. In the infant, the thymus gland ascends a variable distance along the front of the trachea; and the innominate artery crosses this tube obliquely at the root of the neck, from left to right. The arteria thyroidea ima, Avhen that vessel exists, passes from below upwards along the front of the trachea. The upper part of the trachea lies comparatively superficial; but the lower part passes obliquely downwards and backwards, so as to be deeply placed^ between the converging Sterno-mastoid muscles. In the child, the trachea