SURGICAL ANATOMY. 322 In fracture of the shaft of the humerus, below the insertion of the Pectoralis major, Latissimus dorsi, and Teres major, and above the insertion of the Deltoid, there is also considerable deformity, the upper fragment being drawn inwards by the first-mentioned muscles, and the lower fragment drawn upwards and outwards by the Deltoid, producing shortening of the limb, and a considerable prominence at the seat of fracture, from the fractured ends of the bone riding over one another, especially if the fracture takes place in an oblique direction. The fragments may be readily brought into apposition by extension from the elbow, and retained in that position by adopting the same means as in the preceding injury. In fracture of the shaft of the humerus immediately below the insertion of the Deltoid, the amount of deformity depends greatly upon the direction of the fracture. If the fracture occurs in a transverse direction, only slight displacement occurs, the upper fragment being drawn a little forwards; but in oblique fracture, the combined actions of the Biceps and Brachialis anticus muscles in front, and the Triceps behind, draw upwards the lower fragment, causing it to glide over the upper fragment, either backwards or forwards, according to the direction of the fracture. Simple extension reduces the deformity, and the application of splints on the four sides of the arm retains the fragments in apposition. Care should be taken not to raise the elbow, but the forearm and hand may be supported in a sling. Fracture of the humerus (fig. 182) immediately above the condyles deserves very attentive consideration, as the general appearances cor- Fig. 182.—Fracture of the Humerus above the respond somewhat with those produced by Condyles. separation of the epiphysis of the humerus, and with those of dislocation of the radius and ulna backwards. If the direction of the fracture is oblique from above, downwards, and forwards, the lower fragment is drawn upwards and backwards by the Brachialis anticus and Biceps in front, and the Triceps behind. This injury maybe diagnosticated from dislocation, by the increased mobility in frac- ture, the existence of crepitus, and the de- formity being remedied by extension, by the discontinuance of which it is again reproduced. The age of the patient is of importance in distinguishing this form of injury from sepa- ration of the epiphysis. If fracture occurs in the opposite direction to that shown in the accompanying figure, the lower fragment is drawn upwards and forwards, causing a considerable prominence in front; and the upper fragment projects backwards beneath the tendon of the Triceps muscle. Fracture of the coronoid iprocess of the ulna is an accident of rare occurrence, and is usually caused by violent action of the Bra- chialis anticus muscle. The amount of dis- placement varies according to the extent of the fracture. If the tip of the process only is broken off, the fragment is drawn upwards by the Brachialis anticus on a level with the coronoid depression of the humerus, and Fig. 183.—Fracture of the Olecranon. the power of flexion is partially lost. If the process is broken off near its root, the fragment is still displaced by the same muscle; at the same time, on extending the forearm, partial dislocation backwards of the ulna occurs from the action of the Triceps muscle. The appropriate treat- ment would be to relax the Brachialis an- ticus by flexing the forearm, and to retain the fragments in apposition by keeping the arm in this position. Union is generally ligamentous. Fracture of the olecranon process (fig. 183) is a more frequent accident, and is caused either by violent action of the Triceps muscle, or by a fall or blow upon the point of the elbow. The detached fragment is displaced upwards, by the action of the Triceps muscle, from half an inch to two inches; the prominence of the elbow is consequently lost, and a deep hollow is felt at the back part of the joint, which is much increased on flexing the limb. The