MUSCLES AND FASCIA. 324 articular surface if it occurs in the adult; but in the child, before the age of sixteen, it is more frequently a separation of the epiphysis from the apophysis. The displacement which is produced is very considerable, and bears some resemblance to dislocation of the carpus backwards, from which it should be carefully distinguished. The lower fragment is drawn upwards and backwards Fig. 185.—Fracture of the Lower End of the Radius. behind the upper fragment by the combined actions of the Supinator longus and the Flexors and the Extensors of the thumb and carpus, producing a well-marked prominence on the back of the wrist, with a deep depression behind. The upper fragment projects forwards, often lacerating the substance of the Pronator quadratus, and is drawn by this muscle into close contact with the lower end of the ulna, causing a projection on the anterior surface of the forearm, immediately above the carpus, from the flexor tendons being thrust foi'wards. This fracture may be dis- tinguished from dislocation by the deformity being removed on making sufficient extension, when crepitus may be occasionally detected; at the same time, on extension being discontinued, the parts immediately resume their deformed appearance. The age of the patient will also assist in determining whether the injury is fracture or separation of the epiphysis. The treatment consists in flexing the forearm, and making powerful extension from the wrist and elbow, depressing at the same time the radial side of the hand, and retaining the parts in this position by well-padded pistol-shaped splints. MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE LOWER EXTEEMITY. The Muscles of tiie Lower Extremity are ing with the difi'erent regions of the limb. Iliac region. Psoas magnus. Psoas parvus. Iliacus. Thigh. Anterior femoral region. Tensor vaginae femoris. Sartorius. Rectus. Vastus externus. Vastus internus. Crureus. Subcrureus. Internal femoral region. Grracilis. Pectineus. Adductor longus. subdivided into groups, correspond- Adductor brevis. Adductor magnus. Hip. Gluteal region. Gluteus maximus. Gluteus medius. Gluteus minimus. Pyriformis. Gemellus superior. Obturator internus. Gemellus inferior. Obturator externus. Quadratus femoris. Posterior femoral region. Biceps. Semi-tendinosus. Semi-membranosus.