SURGICAL ANATOMY. 35G care is requisite in keeping the pointed extremity of the upper fragment in proper apposition; otherwise, after union of the fracture, extension of the limb is partially destroyed from the Eec- tus muscle being held down by the fractured end of the bone, and from the patella, when elevated, being drawn upwards against it. Fig. 201.—Fracture of the Femur above the Condyles. Fig. 202.—Fracture of the Patella. Fracture of the 'patella (fig. 202) may be produced by muscular action, or by direct violence. When produced by muscular action, it occurs thus: a person in danger of falling forwards, attempts to recover himself by throwing the body backwards, and the violent action of the Quadriceps extensor upon the patella snaps Fig. 203.—Oblique Fracture of the Shaft that bone transversely across. The upper frag- of the Tibia. ment is drawn up the thigh by the Quadriceps extensor, the lower fragment being retained in its position by the ligamentum patellae; the extent of separation of the two fragments de- pending upon the degree of laceration of the ligamentous structures around the bone. The patient is totally unable to straighten the limb, the prominence of the patella is lost, and a marked but varying interval can be felt between the fragments. The treatment consists in relaxing the opposing muscles, which maybe effected by raising the trunk, and slightly elevat- ing the limb, which should be kept in a straight position. Union is usually ligamentous. In fracture from direct violence, the bone is gene- rally comminuted, or fractured obliquely or per- pendicularly. Oblique fracture of the shaft of the tibia (fig. 203) usually occurs at the lower fourth of the bone, this being the narrowest and weakest part, and is usually accompanied with fracture of the fibula. If the fracture has taken place obliquely from above, downwards and forwards, the fragments ride over one another, the lower fragment being drawn backwards and upwards by the powerful action of the muscles of the calf; the pointed extremity of the upper fragment projects forwards immediately beneath the in- tegument, often protruding through it, and ren- dering the fracture a compound one. If the direction of the fracture is the reverse of that shown in the figure, the pointed extremity of the lower fragment projects forwards, riding upon the lower end of the upper one. By bending the knee, which relaxes the opposing muscles, and