224 ARTICULATIONS. other, of small size, between the ligamentum patellae and the npper part of the tuberosity of the tibia. The posterior surface of this ligament is separated above from the knee-joint by a large mass of adipose tissue; its lateral margins are con- tinuous with the aponeuroses derived from the Yasti muscles. The Posterior Ligament or Ligamentum Posticum Winslowii (fig. 140) is a broad, flat, fibrous band, which covers over the whole of the back part of the joint. It consists of two lateral portions, formed chiefly of vertical fibres, which arise above from the condyles of the femur, and are connected below Avith the back part of the head of the tibia, being closely united with the tendons of the Gastrocnemius, Plantaris, and Popliteus muscles; the central portion is formed of fasciculi ob- liquely directed and separated from one another by apertures for the passage of vessels. The strongest of these fasciculi is derived from the tendon of the Semi- membranosus ; it passes from the back part of the inner tuberosity of the tibia, obliquely upwards and outwards, to the back part of the outer condyle of the femur. The posterior ligament forms part of the floor of the popliteal space, and upon it rests the popliteal artery. The Lnternal LateralLigament\?> a broad, flat, membranous band, thicker behind than in front, and situated nearer to the back than the front of the joint. It is attached, above, to the inner tuberosity of the femur; below, to the inner tuberosity and inner surface of the shaft of the tibia, to the extent of about two inches. It is crossed, at its lower part, by the aponeurosis of the Sartorius, and the tendons of the Gracilis and Semi-tendinosus muscles, a synovial bursa being interposed. Its deep surface covers the anterior portion of the tendon of the Semi-membra- nosus, the synovial membrane of the joint, and the inferior internal articular artery; it is intimately adherent to the internal semilunar fibro-cartilage. The Lojig External Lateral Ligament is a strong, rounded, fibrous cord, situated nearer to the back than the front of the joint. It is attached, above, to the outer condyle of the femur; below, to the outer part of the head of the fibula. Its outer surface is covered by the tendon of the Biceps, which divides into two parts, separated by the ligament, at its insertion. It has, passing beneath it, the tendon of the Popliteus muscle, and the inferior external articular vessels and nerve. The i^hort External Lateral Ligament is an accessory bundle of fibres, placed behind and parallel with the preceding; attached, above, to the lower part of the outer condyle of the femur; below, to the summit of the styloid process of the fibula. This ligament is intimately connected with the capsular ligament, and has, passing beneath it, the tendon of the Popliteus muscle. The Cajisular Ligament consists of an exceedingly thin, but strong, fibrous membrane, which fills in the intervals left by the preceding ligaments. It is attached to the femur immediately above its articular surface; below, to the upper border and sides of the patella, the margins of the head of the tibia and inter- articiflar cartilages, and is continuous behind with the posterior ligament. This membrane is strengthened by fibrous expansions, derived from the fascia lata, from the Vasti and Crureus muscles, and from the Biceps, Sartorius, and tendon of the Semi-membranosus. The Crucial are two interosseous ligaments of considerable strength, situated in the interior of the joint, nearer its posterior than its anterior part. They are called crucial, because they cross each other, somewhat like the lines of the letter X; and have received the names anterior and ^msterior, from the position of their attachment to the tibia. The Anterior or External Crucial Ligament (fig. 141), smaller than the poste- rior, is attached to the inner side of the depression in front of the spine of the tibia, being blended with the anterior extremity of the external semilunar fibro- cartilage, and passing obliquely upwards, backwards, and outwards, is inserted into the inner and back part of the outer condyle of the femur. The Posterior or Liternal Crucial Ligament is larger in size, but less oblique in its direction than the anterior. It is attached to the back part of the depres-