CKANIAL NERVES. 550 masseteric branch. The anterior branch is reflected upwards, at the pterygoid ridge of the sphenoid, to the front of the temporal fossa. It is occasionally joined "with the buccal nerve. The buccal branch pierces the External pterygoid, and passes downwards beneath the inner surface of the coronoid process of the lower jaw or through the fibres of the Temporal muscle, to reach the surface of the Buccinator, upon which it divides into a superior and an inferior branch. It gives a branch to the External pterygoid during its passage through this muscle, and a few ascending filaments to the Temporal muscle, one of which occasionally joins with the anterior branch of the deep temporal nerve. The upper branch supplies the integument and upper part of the Buccinator muscle, joining with the facial nerve round the facial vein. The lower branch passes forwards to the angle of the mouih; supplies the integu- ment and Buccinator muscle, as well as the mucous membrane lining its inner surface, joining with the facial nerve. The pterygoid branches are two in number, one for eacb Pterygoid muscle. The branch to the Internal pterygoid is long and slender, and passes inwards to enter the deep surface of the muscle. This nerve is intimately connected at its origin with the otic ganglion. The branch to the External pterygoid is most frequently derived from the buccal, but it may be given off' separately from the anterior trunk of the nerve. The Posterior and larger division of the inferior maxillary nerve also receives a few filaments from the motor root. It divides into three branches, auriculo- temporal, gustatory, and inferior dental. The AuRicuLO-TEMPORAL Nerve generally arises by two roots, between which passes the middle meningeal artery. It passes backwards beneath the External pterygoid muscle to the inner side of the articulation of the lower jaw. It then turns upwards with the temporal artery, between the external ear and condyle of the jaw, under cover of the parotid gland, and, escaping from beneath this struc- ture, divides into two temporal branches. The posterior temporal, the smaller of the two, supplies the Attrahens aurem muscle, and is distributed to the upper part of the pinna and the neighboring integument. The anterior temporal accompanies the temporal artery to the vertex of the skull, and supplies the integument of the temporal region, communicating with the facial nerve. The auriculo-temporal nerve has branches of communication with the facial and otic ganglion. Those joining the facial nerve, usually two in number, pass forwards behind the neck of the condyle of the jaw, and join this nerve at the posterior border of the Masseter muscle. They form one of the principal branches of communication between the facial and the fifth nerve. The filaments of com- munication with the otic ganglion are derived from the commencement of the auriculo-temporal nerve. The auricular branches are two in number, inferior and superior. The inferior auricular arises behind the articulation of the jaw, and is distributed to the ear below the external meatus; other filaments twine round the internal maxillary artery, and communicate with the sympathetic. The superior auricular arises in front of the internal ear, and supplies the integument covering the tragus and pinna. Branches to the meatus auditorius, two in number, arise from the point of com- munication between the temporo-auricular and facial nerves, and are distributed- to the meatus. The branch to the temporo-maxillary articulation is usually derived from the auriculo-temporal nerve. The parotid branches supply the parotid gland. The Gustatory or Lingual JSTerve (fig. 280), one of the special nerves of the sense of taste, supplies the papillae and mucous membrane of the tongue. It is deeply placed throughout the whole of its course. It lies at first beneath the External pterygoid muscle, together with the inferior dental nerve, being placed to the inner side of the latter nerve, and is occasionally joined to it by a branch