392 ARTERIES. Plan of Eelations of First Portion of Eight Subclavian Artery. In front. Integument and superficial fascia. Platysma and deep fascia. Clavicular origin of Sterno-mastoid. Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid. Internal jugular and vertebral veins. Pneumogastric, cardiac, and phrenic nerves. Right Sabclaviaa Artevy. First portion Beh ind. Recurrent laryngeal nerve. Sympathetic. Longus colli. Transverse process of seventh cervical vertebra. First Part op the Left Subclavian Artery (fig. 205). It arises from the end of tlie transverse portion of tlie arch of the aorta, oppo- site the second dorsal vertebra, and ascends to the inner margin of the first rib, behind the insertion of the Scalenus anticus muscle. This vessel is, therefore, longer than the right, sitviated more deeply in the cavity of the chest, and directed almost vertically upwards, instead of arching outwards like the vessel of the opposite side. It is in relation, in front, with the pleura, the left lung, the pneumogastric, phrenic, and cardiac nerves, which lie parallel with it, the left carotid artery, left internal jugular and innominate veins, and is covered by the Sterno-thyroid, Sterno-hyoid, and Sterno-mastoid muscles; hehind, with the oesophagus, thoracic duct, inferior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, Longus colli, and vertebral column. To its inner side, are the oesophagus, trachea, and thoracic duct; to its outer side, the pleura. Plan of Eelations of First Portion of Left Subclavian Artery. In front. Pleura and left lung. Pneumogastric, cardiac, and phrenic nerves. Left carotid artery. Left internal jugular and innominate veins. Sterno-thyroid, Sterno-hyoid, and Sterno-mastoid muscles. Outer side. Pleura. Behind. Oesophagus and thoracic duct. Inferior cervical ganglion of sympathetic. Longus colli and vertebral column. The relations of the second and third portions of the subclavian arteries are precisely similar on both sides. The Second Portion of tlie Subclavian Artery lies between the two Scaleni muscles; it is very short, and forms the highest part of the arch described by that vessel. Beneath. Pleura. Inner side. (Esophagus. Trachea. Thoracic duct.