TEMPORO-MAXILLART REGION. 24» Tlie additional fibres for the lower segment, Accessorii orbicularis inferioris, arise from the inferior maxilla, externally to the Levator labii inferioris; arching outwards to the angles of the mouth, they join the Buccinator and the other muscles attached to this spot. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the integument to which it is closely connected. By its deep swface, with the buccal mucous membrane, the labial glands, and coronary vessels. By its outer circumference, it is blended with the numerous muscles which converge to the mouth from various parts of the face. Its inner circumference is free, and covered by mucous membrane. The Buccinator is a broad, thin muscle, quadrilateral in form, occupying the interval between the jaws at the side of the face. It arises from the outer surface of the alveolar processes of the upper and lower jaws, corresponding to the last three molar teeth; and, behind, from the anterior border of the pterygo-maxil- lary ligament. The fibres converge towards the angle of the mouth, where the central ones intersect each other, those from below being continuous with the upper segment of the Orbicularis oris, and those from above, with the inferior segment; but the highest and lowest fibres continue forward uninterruptedly into the corresponding segment of the lip, without decussation. Relations. By its superficial surface, behind, with a large mass of fat, which separates it from the ramus of the lower jaw, the Masseter, and a small portion of the Temporal muscle; anteriorly, Avith the Zygomatici, Eisorius, Levator anguli oris, Depi'essor anguli oris, and Stenon's duct, which pierces it opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw; the facial artery and vein cross it from below upwaj-ds, and it is also crossed by the branches of the facial and buccal nerves. By its internal surface, with the bviccal glands and mucous membrane of the mouth. The p)terygo-maxillary ligament separates the Buccinator muscle from the Supe- ■ rior constrictor of the pharynx. It is a tendinous band, attached by one extremity to the apex of the internal pterygoid plate, and by the other to the posterior extremity of the internal oblique line of the lower jaw. Its inner surface corre- sponds to the cavity of the mouth, and is lined by mucous membrane. Its outer surface is separated from the ramus of the jaw by a quantity of adipose tissue. Its posterior border gives attachment to the Superior constrictor of the pharynx; its anterior border, to the fibres of the Buccinator. The Bisorius of Santorini consists of a narrow bundle of fibres, which arises in the fascia over the Masseter muscle, and, passing horizontally forwards, is inserted into the angle of the mouth, joining with the fibres of the Depressor anguli oris. It is placed superficial to the Platysma, and is broadest at its outer extremity. This muscle varies much in its size and form. Nerves. The Orbicularis oris is supplied by the facial, the Buccinator by the facial and buccal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve. Actions. The Orbicularis oris is the direct antagonist of all those muscles which converge to the lips from the various parts of the face, its action producing the direct closure of the lips; and its forcible action throwing the integument into wrinkles, on account of the firm connection between the latter and the svirface of the muscle. The Buccinators contract and compress the cheeks, so that, during the process of mastication, the food is kept under the immediate pressure of the teeth. 9. Temporo-maxillary EEGio>r (fig. 151). Masseter. Temporal. The Masseter has been already exposed by the removal of the integument from the side of the face (fig. 148). The Masseter is a short thick muscle, somewhat quadrilateral in form, consisting of two portions, superficial and deep. The superficial portion, the largest, arises by a thick tendinous aponeurosis from the malar process of the superior maxilla, and from the anterior two-thirds of the lower border of the zygomatic arch: its