211 OF THE BACK. processes, and to ttie layer of lumbar fascia connected witli the apices of the transverse processes. In the dorsal region, the Longissimus dorsi is inserted, by long thin tendons, into the tips of the transverse processes of all the dorsal vertebriB, and into from seven to eleven ribs between their tubercles and angles. This muscle is continued upwards to the cranium and cervical portion of the spine, by means of two additional fasciculi, the Transversalis colli, and Trachelo- mastoid. The Transversalis Colli, placed on the inner side of the Longissimus dorsi, arises, by long thin tendons, from the summit of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted, by similar tendons, into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the five lower cervical. The Trachelo-mastoid lies on the inner side of the preceding, between it and the Complexus muscle. It arises, by four tendons, from the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth dorsal vertebrae, and by additional separate tendons from the articular processes of the three or four lower cervical; the fibres form a small muscle, which ascends to be inserted into the posterior margin of the mastoid process, beneath the Splenius and Sterno-mastoid muscles. This small muscle is almost always crossed by a tendinous intersection near its inser- tion into the mastoid process. The Spinalis Dorsi connects the spinous processes of the upper lumbar and the dorsal vertebrse together by a series of muscular and tendinous slips, which are intimately blended with the Longissimus dorsi. It is situated at the inner side of the Longissimus dorsi, arising, by three or four tendons, from the spinous processes of the first two lumbar and the last two dorsal vertebrjB: these, uniting, form a small muscle, which is inserted, by separate tendons, into the spinous processes of the dorsal vertebrae, the number varying from four to eight. It is intimately united with the Semi-spinalis dorsi, which lies beneath it. The Spinalis Girvicis is a small muscle, connecting together the spinous pro- cesses of the cervical vertebrje, and analogous to the Spinalis dorsi in the dorsal region. It varies considerably in its size, and in its extent of attachment to the vertebrae, not only in difterent bodies, but on the two sides of the same body. It usually arises by fleshy or tendinous slips, varying from two to four in number, from the spinous processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae, and occasionally from the first and second dorsal, and is inserted into the spinous process of the axis, and occasionally into the spinous process of the two vertebrae below it. This muscle has been found absent in five cases out of twenty-four. The Complexus is a broad thick muscle, situated at the upper and back part of the neck, beneath the Splenius, and internal to the prolongations from the Longissimus dorsi. It arises, by a series of tendons, about seven in number, from the tips of the transverse processes of the npper three dorsal and seventh cervical, and from the articular processes of the three cervical above this. The tendons uniting form a broad muscle, which passes obliquely upwards and inwards, and is inserted into the innermost depression between the two curved lines of the occi- pital bone. This muscle, about its middle, is traversed by a transverse tendinous intersection*. The Biventer Cervicis is a small fasciculus, situated on the inner side of the preceding, and in the majority of cases blended Avith it; it has received its name from having a tendon intervening between two fleshy bellies. It is sometimes described as a separate muscle, arising, by from two to four tendinous slips, from the transverse processes of as many upper dorsal vertebrje, and is inserted, on the inner side of the Complexus, into the superior curved line of the occipital bone. Relations. By their siqKrficial surface, Avith the Trapezius and Splenius. By their deep surface, Avith the Semi-spinalis dorsi and Semi-spinalis colli and the Eecti and Obliqui. The Biventer cervicis is separated from its fellow of tho opposite side by the ligamentum nuchce, and the Complexus from the Semi- spinalis colli by the profunda cervicis artery, the princeps cervicis, a branch of the occipital, and by the posterior cervical plexus of nerves.