OSTEOLOGY. 118 behind the angle; a little downwards in front of it. This surface is marked hj a ridge which commences at the lower extremity of the head; it is strongly marked as far as the inner side of the angle, and gradually becomes lost at the junction of the anterior with the middle third of the bone. The interval between it and the inferior border is deeply grooved, to lodge the intercostal vessels and nerve. At the back part of the bone, this groove belongs to the inferior border; but just in front of the angle, where it is deepest and broadest, it corresponds to the internal surface. The superior edge of the groove is rounded; it serves for the attachment of the Internal intercostal muscle. The inferior edge corresponds to the lower margin of the rib, and gives attachment to the External intercostal. Within the groove are seen the orifices of numerous small foramina, which traverse the wall of the shaft obliquely from before backwards. The superior border, thick and rounded, is marked by an external and an internal lip, more distinct behind than in front; they serve for the attachment of the External and Internal intercostal muscles. The inferior border, thin and sharp, has attached the External intercostal muscle. The anterior or sternal extremity is flattened, and presents a porous, oval, concave depression, into which the costal cartilage is received. Structure. The ribs consist of cancellous tissue, inclosed in a thin compact layer. Development. Each rib, with the exception of the last two, is developed by three centres, one for the shaft, one for the head, and one for the tubercle. The last two have only two centres, that for the tubercle being wanting. Ossification commences in the body of the ribs at a very early period, before its appearance in the vertebrae. The epiphysis of the head, which is of a slightly angular shape, and that for the tubercle, of a lenticular form, make their appearance between the sixteenth and twentieth years, and are not united to the rest of the bone until about the twenty-fifth year. Attachment of Muscles. The Intercostals, Scalenus anticus. Scalenus medius. Scalenus posticus, Pectoralis minor, Serratus magnus, Obliquus externus, Trans- yersalis, Quadratus lumborum. Diaphragm, Latissimus dorsi, Serratus posticus superior, Serratus posticus inferior, Sacro-lumbalis, Musculus accessorius ad sacro- lumbalem, Longissimus dorsi, Cervicalis ascendens, Levatores costarum. i Peculiar Eibs. The ribs which require especial consideration are five in number, viz., the first, second, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth. The first rib (fig. 77) is one of the shortest and the most curved of all the ribs; it is broad, flat, and placed horizontally at the upper part of the thorax, its surfaces looking upwards and downwards, and its borders inwards and outwards. The head is of small size, rounded, and presents only a single articular facet for arti- culation with the body of the first dorsal vertebra. The neck is narrow and rounded. The tuberosity, thick and prominent, rests on the outer border. There is no angle, and the shaft is not twisted on its axis. The upper surface of the shaft is marked by two shallow depressions, separated from one another by a ridge, which becomes more prominent towards the internal border, where it terminates in a tubercle; this tubercle and ridge serve for the attachment of the Scalenus anticus muscle, the groove in front of it transmitting the subclavian vein; that behind it, the subclavian artery. Between the groove for the subclavian artery and the tuberosity, is a depression for the attachment of the Scalenus medius muscle. The under surface is smooth, and destitute of the groove observed on the other ribs. The outer border is convex, thick, and rounded. The inner, concave, thin, and sharp, and marked about its centre by the tubercle before mentioned. The anterior extremity is larger and thicker than in any of the other ribs. The second rib (fig. 78) is much longer than the first, but bears a very consider- able resemblance to it in the direction of its curvature. The non-articular portion of the tuberosity is occasionally only slightly marked. The angle is slight, and situated close to the tuberosity, and the shaft is not twisted, so that both ends