ETHMOID BONE. 77 The Ethmoid Bone. Ethmoid Bone. Outer Surface of Right Lateral Mass (enlarged). The Ethmoid {^dubi, a sieve) is an exceedingly light spongy bone, of a cubical form, situated at the anterior part of the base of the cranium, between the two orbits, at the root of the nose, and contributing to form each -pig. 38. of these cavities. It consists of three parts: a horizontal plate, which forms part of the base of the cranium; a per- pendicular plate, which forms part of the septum nasi; and two lateral masses of cells. The Horizontal or Cribri- form Plate (fig. 38) forms part of the anterior fossa of the base of the skull, and is received into the ethmoid notch of the frontal bone be- tween the two orbital plates. Projecting upwards from the middle line of this plate, is a thick smooth triangular pro- cess of bone, the crista galli, so called from its resemblance to a cock's comb. Its base joins the cribriform plate. Its posterior border, long, thin, and slightly curved, serves for the attachment of the falx cerebri. Its anterior border, short and thick, articulates with the frontal bone, and presents two small projecting ala3, which are received into corresponding depressions in the frontal, completing the foramen ciecum behind. Its sides are smooth, and sometimes bulging, when it is found to inclose a small sinus. On each side of the crista galli, the cribriform plate is narrow, and deeply grooved, to support the bulb of the olfactory nerves, and is perforated by foramina for the passage of its filaments. These foramina are arranged in three rows; the innermost, which are the largest and least numerous, are lost in grooves on the upper part of the septum; the foramina of the outer row are continued on to the surface of the upper spongy bone. The foramina of the middle row are the smallest; they perforate the bone, and transmit nerves to the roof of the nose. At the front part of the cribri- form plate, on each side wiiA inf.^tarhinated 6. of the crista galli, is a small fissure, which transmits the nasal branch of the ophthal- mic nerve; and at its posterior part a trian- gular notch, which re- ceives the ethmoidal spine of the sphenoid. The Perpendicular Plate (fig. 39) is a thin flattened lamella of bone, which descends from the under surface of the cribriform plate, and assists in forming the septum of the nose. It is much thinner in the middle than at the Fig. 39.—Perpendicular Plate of Ethmoid (enlarged). removing the Right Lateral Mass. Shown by