530 NERVOUS SYSTEM. Some of the diverging fibres end in the cerebral ganglia, whilst others pass through and receive additional fibres from them, and, as they emerge, radiate into the anterior, middle, and posterior lobes of the hemisphere, decussating again with the fibres of the corpus callosum, before passing to the convolutions. The transverse commissural fibres connect together the two hemispheres across the middle line. They are formed by the corpus callosum, and the anterior and posterior commissures. The longitudinal commissural fibres connect together distant parts of the same hemisphere, the fibres being disposed in a longitudinal direction. They form the fornix, the taenia semicircularis, and peduncles of the pineal gland, the striae longitudinales, the fibres of the gyrus fornicatus, and the fasciculus uncinatus. CEEEBELLUM. The Cerebellum or little brain is that portion of the encephalon which is con- tained in the inferior occipital fossfe. It is situated beneath the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, from which it is separated by the tentorium. Its average weight in the male is 5 oz. 4 drs. It attains its maximum weight between the twenty-fifth and fortieth years; its increase in weight after the fourteenth year being relatively greater in the female than in the male. The proportion between the cerebellum and cerebrum is, in the male, as 1 to 8|; and, in the female, as 1 to 8J. In the infant, it is proportionally much smaller than in the adult, the relation between them being, according to Chaussier, between 1 to 13 and 1 to 26; by Cruveilhier it was found to be 1 to 20. In form, the cerebellum is oblong, flattened from above downwards, its greatest diameter being from side to side. It measures from three and a half to four inches transversely, from two to two and a half inches from before backwards, being about two inches thick in the centre, and about six lines at its circumference, the thinnest part. It consists of gray and white matter : the former, darker than that of the cerebrum, occupies the surface; the latter, the interior. The surface of the cerebellum is not convoluted like the cerebrum, but traversed by numerous curved furrows or sulci, which vary in depth at diS'erent parts, and correspond to the intervals between the laminae of which its exterior is composed. Its upper surface (fig. 270) is somewhat elevated in the median line, and de- Fig. 270.—Upper Surface of the Cerebellum. • pressed towards its circumference; it consists of two lateral hemispheres, connected together by an elevated median portion or lobe, the superior vermiform lorocess.