CERVICAL YERTEBR^. 43 Isackwards from the posterior extremity of the superior articular process. These grooves represent the superior intervertebral notches, and are peculiar from being situated behind the articular processes, instead of before them, as in the other vertebrae. They serve for the transmission of the vertebral artery, which, ascending through the foramen in the transverse process, winds round the lateral mass in a direction backwards and inwards. They also transmit the sub-occipital nerves. On the under surface of the posterior arch, in the same situation, are two other grooves, placed behind the lateral masses, and representing the inferior interver- tebral notches of other vertebrae; they are much less marked than the superior. The lateral masses are the most bulky and solid parts of the atlas, in order to support the weight of the head; they present two articulating processes above, and two below. The two superior are of large size, oval, concave, and approach towards one another in front, but diverge behind; they are directed upwards, inwards, and a little backwards, forming a kind of cup for the condyles of the occipital bone, and are admirably adapted to the nodding movements of the head. Not unfrequently they are partially subdivided by a more or less deep indentation which encroaches upon each lateral margin; the inferior articular processes are circular in form, flattened, or slightly concave, and directed downwards, inwards, and a little backwards, articulating with the axis, and permitting the rotatory movements. Just below the inner margin of each superior articular surface, is a small tubercle, for the attachment of a ligament which, stretching across the ring of the atlas, divides it into two unequal parts; the anterior or smaller segment receiving the odontoid process of the axis, the posterior allowing the transmission of the spinal cord and its membranes. This part of the spinal canal is of con- siderable size, to afford space for the spinal cord; and hence lateral displacement of the atlas may occur without compression of the spinal cord. (This ligament and the odontoid process are marked in figure 2 in dotted outline.) The trans- verse processes are of large size, for the attachment of special muscles which assist in rotating the head—long, not bifid, perforated at their base by a canal for the vertebral artery, which is directed from below, upwards and backwards. The Axis (fig. 3) is so named from forming the pivot upon which the head Fig. 3.—2d Cervical Vertebra or Axis. Odontoid JE^os, InfeT.A.Ttii;.Ppo(K rotates. The most distinctive character of this bone is the strong prominent process, tooth-like in form (hence the name odontoid), which rises perpendi- cularly from the upper part of the body. The body is of a triangular form; deeper in front than behind, and prolonged downwards anteriorly so as to overlap the upper and fore part of the adjacent vertebra. It presents in front a median longitudinal ridge, separating two lateral depressions for the attachment of the Longi colli muscles. The odontoid process presents two articulating surfaces: