468 YEINS. The Beei^ Palmar Veins accompany the deep palmar arch, being formed hy branches which accompany the ramifications of this vessel. They communicate with the superficial palmar veins at the inner side of the hand; and, on the outer side, terminate in the venae comites of the radial artery. At the wrist, they receive a dorsal and a palmar branch from the thumb, and unite with the deep radial veins. Accompanying the radial artery, these vessels terminate in the venae comites of the brachial artery. The Brachial Veins are placed one on each side of the brachial artery, receiving branches corresponding with those given off from this vessel; at the lower margin of the axilla they unite with the basilic to form the axillary vein. The deep veins have numerous anastomoses, not only with each other, but also with the superficial veins. The Axillary Vein is of large size and formed by the continuation upwards of the basilic vein. It commences at the lower part of the axillary space, and increasing in size as it ascends, by receiving branches corresponding with those of the axillary artery, terminates immediately beneath the clavicle at the outer mar- gin of the first rib, and becomes the subclavian vein. This vessel is covered in front by the Pectoral muscles and costo-coracoid membrane, and lies on the thoracic side of the axillary artery. Opposite the Subscapularis, it is joined by a large vein, formed by the junction of the venae comites of the brachial; and near its termination it receives the cephalic vein. This vein is provided with a pair of valves opposite the lower border of the Subscapularis muscle; valves are also found at the termination of the cephalic and subscapular veins. The Subclavian Vein, the continuation of the axillary, extends from the outer margin of the first rib to the inner end of the stenfo-clavicular articulation, where it unites with the internal jugular, to form the vena innominata. It is in relation, in front, with the clavicle and Subclavius muscle; behind, with the subclavian artery, from which it is separated internally by the Scalenus anticus and phrenic nerve. Below, it rests in a depression on the first rib and upon the pleura. Above, it is covered by the cervical fascia and integument. The subclavian vein occasionally rises in the neck to a level with the third part of the subclavian artery, and, in two instances, has been seen passing with the latter behind the Scalenus anticus. This vessel is provided with valves about an inch from its termination in the innominate, just external to the entrance of the external jugular vein. Branches. It receives the external and anterior jugular veins and a small branch from the cephalic, outside the Scalenus; and on the inner side of this muscle, the internal jugular veins. The Ven^ Innominate (fig. 241) are two large trunks, placed one on each side of the root of the neck, and formed by the union of the internal jugular and subclavian veins of the corresponding side. The Bight Vena Innominata is a short vessel, about an inch and a half in length, which commences at the inner end of the clavicle, and, passing almost vertically downwards, joins with the left vena innominata just below the cartilage of the first rib, to form the superior vena cava. It lies superficial and external to the arteria innominata; on its right side the pleura is interposed between it and the apex of the lung. This vein, at its angle of junction with the subclavian, receives the right vertebral vein, and right lymphatic duct; and, lower down, the right internal mammary, right inferior thyroid, and right siiperior intercostal veins. The Beft Vena Innominata, about three inches in length, and larger than the right, passes obliquely from right to left across the upper and front part of the chest, to unite with its fellow of the opposite side, forming the superior vena cava. It is in relation, in front, with the sternal end of the left clavicle, the left sterno- clavicular articulation, and with the first piece of the sternum, from which it is separated by the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, the thymus gland or its remains, and some loose areolar tissue. Behind, it lies across the roots of the