653 PALATE- SALIVARY GLANDS. the uvula on eacli side, are two curved folds of mucous membrane, containing muscular fibres, called the arches or pillars of the soft palate. The anterior pillar runs downwards and forwards to the side of the base of the tongue, and is formed by the projection of the Palato-glossus muscle, covered by mucous membrane. The posterior pillars are more closely approximated and larger than the anterior; they run downwards and backwards to the sides of the pharynx, and are formed by the projection of the Palato-pharyngei muscles, covered by mucous membrane. The anterior and posterior pillars are separated below by a triangular interval, in which the tonsil is lodged. The space left between the arches of the palate on the two sides is called the isthmus of the fauces. It is bounded above by the free margin of the palate; below, by the tongue; and on each side, by the pillars of the soft palate and tonsils. The mucous membrane of the soft palate is thin, and covered with squamous epithelium on both surfaces, excepting near the orifice of the Eustachian tube, where it is columnar and ciliated. The palatine glands form a continuous layer on its posterior surface and round the uvula. The aponettrosis of the soft palate is a thin but firm fibrous layer, attached above to the hard palate, and becoming thinner towards the free margin of the velum. It is blended with the aponeurotic tendon of the Tensor palati muscle. The muscles of the soft palate are five on each side; the Levator palati, Tensor palati, Palato-glossus, Palato-pharyngeus, and the Azygos uvulae. The tonsils {amygdalse) are two glandular organs, situated one on each side of the fiances, between the anterior and posterior pillars of the soft palate. They are of rounded form, and vary considerably in size in different individuals. Externally, the tonsil is in relation with the inner surface of the Superior con- strictor, and with the internal carotid and ascending pharyngeal arteries, and corresponds to the angle of the lower jaw. Its inner surface presents from twelve to fifteen orifices, leading into small recesses, from which numerous follicles branch out into the substance of the gland. These follicles are lined by a con- tinuation of the mucous membrane of the pharynx, covered with epithelium, their walls being formed by a layer of closed capsules imbedded in the submucous tissue. These capsules are analogous to those of Peyer's glands; they contain a thick grayish secretion. The arteries supplying the tonsil are the dorsalis linguse from the lingual, the ascending palatine and tonsillar from the facial, the ascending pharyngeal from the external carotid, and the descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary. The veins terminate in the tonsillar plexus, on the outer side of the tonsil. The nerves are derived from the fifth, and from the glosso-pharyngeal. The Salivaey Glands, The principal salivary glands communicating with the mouth, and pouring their secretion into its cavity, are the parotid, submaxillary, and sublingual. The Parotid gland (fig. 330), so called from being placed near the ear (?tapa, near; od?, wrof, th£. ear), is the largest of the three salivary glands, varying in weight from half an ounce to an ounce. It lies upon the side of the face, imme- diately below and in front of the external ear. It is limited above by the zygoma; below, by the angle of the jaw, and by an imaginary line drawn between it and the Sterno-mastoid muscle; anteriorly, it extends to a variable extent over the Masseter muscle; posteriorly, it is bounded by the external meatus, the mastoid process, and the Sterno-mastoid and Digastric muscles, slightly overlapping the former. Its anterior surface is grooved to embrace the posterior margin of the ramus of the lower jaw, and advances forwards beneath the ramus, between the two ptery-