CHARACTERS Ojt' THE CERVICAL YERTEBRJE. 41 The Body is the largest and most solid part of a vertebra. Above and below, it is slightly concave, presenting a rim around its circumference; and its surfaces are rough, for the attachment of the intervertebral fibro-cartilages. In front it is convex from side to side, concave from above downwards. Behind, flat from above down- wards and slightly concave from side to side. Its anterior surface is perforated by a few small apertures, for the passage of nutrient vessels; whilst on the posterior surface is a single irregular-shaped aperture, or occasionally several large apertures, for the exit of veins from the body of the vertebra, the vense basis vertebrse. The Pedicles project backwards, one on each side, from the upper part of the body of the vertebra, at the line of junction of its posterior and lateral surfaces. The concavities above and below the pedicles are the intervertebral notches; they are four in number, two on each side, the inferior ones being generally the deeper. When the vertebrse are articulated, the notches of each contiguous pair of bones form the intervertebral foramina, which communicate with the spinal canal and transmit the spinal nerves. The Laminse are two broad plates of bone, which complete the vertebral arch behind, inclosing a foramen which serves for the protection of the spinal cord; they are connected to the body by means of the pedicles. Their upper and lower borders are rough, for the attachment of the ligamenta suhflava. The Articular Processes, four in number, two on each side, spring from the jimction of the pedicles with the laminae. The two superior project upwards, their articular surfaces being directed more or less backwards, the two inferior project downwards, their articular surfaces looking more or less forwards. The Spinous Process projects backwards from the junction of the two laminse, and serves for the attachment of muscles. The Transverse Processes, two in number, project one at each side from the point where the articular processes join the pedicle. They also serve for the attachment of muscles. The Body (fig. 1) is smaller than in any other region of the spine, and broader from side to side than from before backwards. The anterior and posterior surfaces are flattened and of equal depth; the former is placed on a lower level than the latter, and its inferior border is prolonged downwards so as to overlap the upper and fore part of the vertebra below. Its upper surface is concave transversely, and presents a projecting lip on each side; its lower surface being convex from side to side, concave from before backwards, and presenting laterally a shallow concavity, which receives the corresponding projecting lip of the adjacent verte- bra. The pedicles are directed obliquely outwards, and the superior intervertebral Chabacters of the Cervical Yertebr^. Fig. 1.—A Cervical Vertebra.