466 VEINS. Fig. 240.—The Superficial Veins of the Upper Extremity. anterior; and in old age it is more capacious than at an early period of life. It receives veins from the pituitary body, and from the adjacent bone and dura mater. The Inferior Petrosal Sinus is situated in the groove formed by the junction of the inferior border of the petrous portion of the temporal with the basilar process of the occipital. It commences in front at the termination of the cavernous sinus, and opens behind into the jugular foramen, forming with the lateral sinus the commencement of the internal jugular vein. These sinuses are semi-cylindrical in form. The Transverse Sinus is placed trans- versely across the fore part of the basilar process of the occipital bone, serving to connect the two inferior petrosal and cavern- ous sinuses. A second is occasionally found opposite the foramen magnum. The Superior Petrosal Sinus is situated along the upper border of the petrous por- tion of the temporal bone, in the front part of the attached margin of the tentorium. It is small and narrow, and connects together the cavernous and lateral sinuses at each side. It receives a cerebral vein (inferior lateral cerebral) from the under part of the middle lobe, and a cerebellar vein (anterior lateral cerebellar) from the anterior border of the cerebellum. TnfrmaT JVervs Veins of the Uppek Extremity AND Thobax. The veins of the upper extremity are divided into two sets: 1. The superficial veins. 2. The deep veins. The Superficial Veins are placed imme- diately beneath the integument between the two layers of superficial fascia; they com- mence in the hand chiefly on its dorsal aspect, where they form a more or less com- plete arch. The Deep Veins accompany the arteries, and constitute the vense comites of those vessels. Both sets of vessels are provided with valves, which are more numerous in the deep than in the superficial. 1. -The Superficial Veins of the Upper Extremity are the Anterior ulnar. Posterior ulnar. Basilic. Eadial. Cephalic. Median. Median basilic. Median cephalic. The Anterior Ulnar Vein commences on the anterior surface of the wrist and ulnar side of the hand, and ascends along the