ORGANS OF THE SENSES. 622 course towards the anterior margin of the retina tlie bundles interlace, forming a delicate net, with flattened elongated meshes. The nerve fibres which form this layer differ from the fibres of the optic nerve in this respect; they lose their dark outline, and their tendency to become varicose, and consist only of the central part or axis of the nerve tubes. The mode of termination of the nerve fibres is unknown. According to some observers, they terminate in loops; according to others, in free extremities. Eecent observers have stated, that some of the nerve fibres are continuous with the caudate prolongations of the nerve cells external to the fibrous layer. The nerve cells are placed on both sides of the fibrous layer, but chiefly upon its inner surface, and imbedded within the meshes formed by the interlacing nerve fibres; they are round or pear-shaped transparent cells, nucleated, with granular contents, furnished with caudate prolongations, some of which join the fibres of the optic nerve, whilst others are directed externally towards the granular layer. It is probable that these cells are identical with the ganglion cor- puscles of vesicular nervous substance. An extremely thin aiid delicate structureless membrane lines the inner surface of the retina, and separates it from the vitreous body; it is called the membrana limitans. The radiating fibres of the retina, described by Heinrich Miiller, consist of extremely fine fibrillated threads, which are connected externally with each of the rods of the columnar layer, of which they appear to be direct continuations; and, passing through the entire substance of the retina, are united to the outer surface of the membrana limitans. In their course through the retina, they become con- nected with the nuclear particles of the granular layer, and give off" branching processes opposite its innermost lamina; as they approach the fibrous expansion of the optic nerve, they are collected into bundles, which pass through the areolse between its fibres, and are finally attached to the inner surface of the membrana limitans, where each fibre terminates in a triangular enlargement. The arteria centralis retinae and its accompanying vein pierce the optic nerve, and enter the globe of the eye through the porus opticus. It immediately divides into four or five branches, which at first run between the hyaloid membrane and the nervous layer; but they soon enter the latter membrane, and form a close capillary network in its substance. At the ora serrata they terminate in a single vessel, which bounds the terminal margin of the retina. The structure of the retina at the yellow spot presents some modifications. Jacob's membrane is thinner, and of its constituents only the cones are present; but they are small, and more closely aggregated than in any other part. The granular layer is absent over the fovea centralis. Of the two elements of the nervous layer, the nerve fibres extend only to the circumference of the spot; but the nerve cells cover its entire surface. The radiating fibres are found at the cir- cumference, and here only extend to the inner strata of the granular layer. Of the capillary vessels, the larger branches pass round the spot, but the smaller capil- laries meander through it. The color of the spot appears to imbue all the layers except Jacob's membrane; it is of a rich yellow, deepest towards the centre, and does not appear to consist of pigment cells, but resembles more a straining of the constituent parts. HUMOES OF THE EYE. Aqueous Humor. The Aqueous Humor completely fills the anterior and posterior chambers of the eyeball. It is small in quantity, scarcely exceeding, according to Petit, four or five grains in weight, has an alkaline reaction, in composition is little more than water, less than one-fiftieth of its weight being solid matter, chiefly chloride of sodium. The anterior chamber is the space bounded in front by the cornea; behind, by the front of the iris and ciliary ligament. The 2^osterior chamber, smaller than the anterior, is bounded in front by the