lli^^W' \i\ mm^i % JH t PiilP/SibINTRODUCTORY ADDRESS TO THE SESSION OF 1SG7-68 THE MEDICAL SCHOOL WILLIAM TITE, ESQ., M.P., IN THE CHAIR. By SAMUEL SOLLY, F.R.S., SENIOR SURGEON TO, AND LECTURER ON SURGERY AT, ST. THOMAS’S HOSPITAL; VICE-PRESIDENT OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS OF ENGLAND ; MEMBER OF THE COUNCIL AND OF THE COURT OF EXAMINERS, AND LATE PROFESSOR OF SURGERY AND ANATOMY AT THE SAME COLLEGE ; PRESIDENT OF THE ROYAL MEDICAL AND CHIRURGICAL SOCIETY; CONSULTING SURGEON TO TnE ROYAL GENERAL DISPENSARY, TnE INFIRMARY FOR EPILEPSY AND PARALYSIS, - AND THE SOLDIERS’ DAUGHTERS’ HOME. OF HOSPITAL. LONDON: Wm. H. ALLEN AND CO., 13, WATERLOO PLACE, S.W. 1868# LONDON: PRINTED BY WOODFAEL AND KINDER, MILFORD LANE, STRAND, W.C.THE HER TO QUEEN, MAJESTY’S GRACIOUS PERMISSION.PREFACE The condescension of Her Most Gracious Majesty in laying the first stone of St. Thomas’s Hospital, the success which attended that interesting ceremony, the grand gathering of above 200 old St. Thomas’s pupils at our Biennial Dinner, and the renewed •interest thus excited in the future prosperity of our Alma Mater, has induced me to print this Address as it was delivered, with some additions which time and circumstances would not then permit me to insert. The loving sympathy which Her Majesty has ever shown for her subjects in suffering and sorrow, must assure us that she will never cease to feel an interest in this Royal Hospital, the value and importance of which had been previously recognized by her noble Consort: “ Floreat Nosoco- mium St. Thomas. ” July, 1868.—6, Savilf, Row.INTRODUCTORY ADDRESS. In the name of my colleagues and myself, Ladies, Mr. Treasurer, Mr. Tite, and old Students, we thank you for your presence here to-day. About forty years ago, my young friends, I commenced the study of my profession in this time-honoured school of St. Thomas’s Hospital, and though so many years have rolled over my head since, the feelings of that day have not been effaced by time. I began that journey with high hopes and lofty aspirations ; some have been crushed, some crumbled into dust, some faded away, some realized; but with all this I would, if 1 could, re-live this portion of my life, and start again with hopeful- ness in the same career. You, as travellers into this new coun- try, will not, I am sure, despise the advice of an old guide. 1 walked this path with joy, but now look back with regret that my time had not been better spent, and that many golden opportunities of reaping sound fruit have been lost for ever. I have likened you to travellers, but this is too tame a simile, are you not rather warriors, buckling on your armour to fight a noble fight for professional existence P Do not deceive yourselves: he who enters the Medical pro- fession must be prepared for a firm and uninterrupted struggle for existence. Having once enlisted, you are no longer your own master. You have undertaken duties far higher than any accepted by mortal man, excepting perhaps those of the Minister of Religion. In all truth, then, may I say :— “ A sacred burden is the life ye bear. Look on it, lift it, bear it solemnly, Stand up, walk beneath it steadfastly.8 Fail not for Borrow, falter not for sin; But onward, upward, till the goal ye win. God guide ye, God guard ye on your way, Young pilgrim warriors who set forth this day.” Oh ! what a solemn truth is this, “A sacred burden is the life ye bear.” Life is not a toy given to amuse us, it is not a treasure, to be spent in self-gratification, it is a burden to be borne solemnly and steadfastly. If this is a truth applicable to all humanity, how fearfully true it is when applied to the young pilgrim in the land of Medicine! It insists, and insists truly, that, as human beings, we are responsible to our Creator for the way in which we utilize this privilege :— “ Our life is as a shadow, and it soon passeth away.” To prolong this short life is the object of the science which you have come here this day to study. The Creator has to a certain extent permitted us to hold in our hands the cords of life and death, to loose or bind. We cannot restore life as the first and great Physician did; but we are endowed, under Divine Providence, with the godlike power of preserving it. Well might the greatest of modern poets say,— “ 0 God ! it is a fearful thing To see the human soul take wing In any shape, in any mood ; I have seen it rushing forth in blood, I have seen it on the breaking ocean Strive with a swollen convulsive motion ; I have seeu it on the ghastly bed Of sin, delirious with its dread.” No one who has witnessed death will not acknowledge the truth of this vivid picture; and no medical man can deny that the pain of such a scene is fearfully heightened it he is con- scious that that flight has been caused by his ignorance or neglect; and if he is compelled to exclaim inwardly, in the agony of his soul, “ Oh, if I had only done my duty when I was a student, this death might have been averted!’0 Do not think, my young friends, that this picture is over- drawn, or too highly coloured. Every conscientious medical man who has arrived at my time of life will allow tlie truth ot it; and happy is he who can say to himself, when he closes the eyes of his patient, “I have done my duty, and used all those means which the science of our profession, to the best of my belief, has accorded to us.” We are all fallible, and the best of us are poor erring mortals. We are all students, or ought to be, but some do, and some do not do, their work as students earnestly, zealously, and truthfully. Let us, then, consider this responsibility, and the way in which we are the most likely to be able to perform these duties in accordance with our high aspirations. The man who practises the profession of Medicine and Sur- gery honestly and skilfully, is a noble being. The object of our meeting to-day is to encourage the young Student to devote himself heart and soul to this godlike profession. When we first commence our studies we are, I fear, most of us, thoughtless, giddy, self-indulgent creatures. When we conclude our studies at the hospital, and launch our bark upon the troubled sea of actual professional life, we ought to be serious, thoughtful, and instructed men. A few short years ought to see this change in you. In these few short years how is it to be accomplished P The science of Medicine and Surgery must be founded on a knowledge of the way in which the vital functions are carried on in a state of health. You must first study the construction of the instruments, or mechanism by which these functions are carried on ; in other words, you must begin with Anatomy, and that anatomy can only be efficiently learned by dissecting the dead body. All reading or studying of plates is a delusion and a snare. It will be of no service to you Avhen you require your Anatomy to save life. It will vanish in the hour of difficulty ; it will desert you in the hour of need. You must learn anatomy practically. The very mention of Practical Anatomy recalls to my mind the name of one of its most able votaries—I mean that of Mr. George Rainy. His reputation is not limited to this country, it A 21 am quite sure that the colleagues by whom he is so well 10 is world-wide. I must read the titles of a few of his contribu- tions to science:— On the Structure of the Human Lungs and the Formation of Pulmonary Tubercle. On the Structure of Lungs in Birds, chiefly in reference to the Tissue witli which the Air in the Lungs is in Contact. On Fatty Degeneration of the Tissue of the Lung in Em- physema. Experimental Investigation of the Cause of the Ascent and Descent of the Sap in Plants, with some observations on the cause of Endosmose and Exosmose. On the Structure of the Ligamentum Rotundum Uteri in the Human Female. On the Structure and Development of the Cysticercus Celluloses in the Measly Pig. On the influence of Quantity of Matter over Chemical Affinity, as shown in the Formation of certain Double Chlorides and Oxalates. On the Structure and Mode of Formation of the Dental Tissues. On the Structure and Formation of Starch Granules. On the Structure of the Sudoriferous Glands. On the Pecten in the Eye of Birds, and the Adaptation of the Eye to Objects at different Distances. On the Mode of Formation of Shell Tissues, of Bone and other Silicious Structures. Most fortunate are wc in being able to retain the services of such a true philosopher. His knowledge is only equalled by his consummate skill in imparting it, and his unrivalled industry in the performance of those duties which he so skilfully and so much to our benefit consents to perform. Industry on your part, and serious unmistakable attention to your studies, are the only avenues to his heart. May the Almighty long spare him to us ; and may he be rewarded in a few years by the completion of an academical building more worthy of his talent, and with a class ns numer- ous as his deserts, and a scale of remuneration more in propor- tion to his value to the school of which he is one of our most substantial ornaments!11 aided in his laborious work (1 mean Mr. Croft and Mr. Wag- staffe) will cheerfully echo every word I have said in all sincerity and thankfulness. Following, and founded on a knowledge of Practical Anatomy, ought to be the study of Physiology—the science of Life. If, as I have said, that the study of the machinery of this frail body is marvellously interesting, what shall I say of that science which has for its object the discovery of the laws by which that machinery is worked ? The study of Physiology you will find especially interesting as proving Design and Contrivance,—Design and Contrivance emanating from Omniscience. “ The necessity of contrivance for the accomplishment of purpose,” says the Duke of Argyll, in his most interesting work entitled “ The Reign of Law,” “ arises out of the immutability of natural forces. They must be conformed to and obeyed. There- fore, when they do not serve our purpose directly, they can only be made to serve it by ingenuity and contrivance. Nothing is more certain than that the whole order of nature is one vast system of contrivance. And what is contrivance but that kind of arrangement by which the-unchangeable demands of law are met and satisfied ? ” The laws which regulate disease are at present but little known, and the obscurity which envelops them is still a great drawback to the successful practice of the healing art. John Hunter, the most profound genius our profession could ever boast of, considered that the backward state in which he found the art of Surgery—for previous to his time it could not be called a science—wa3 owing to a shallow and theoretical phy- siology ; that the ignorance of his contemporaries regarding the practice of Surgery was due to their still greater ignorance of the laws of life. He therefore first devoted all his energies to the study of Physiology, not confining himself to the narrow limits of the human frame, but extending his researches to vital phenomena, as exhibited by all living beings. And you, my young friends, must do the same ; for the study of Physiology is not merely necessary to the great pioneers of Surgery, to those who live to extend our knowledge of its truths,12 bat to all and each of you who would understand them for the purpose of practising the healing art. It is principles, not phenomena,—laws, not isolated indepen- dent facts, which you must study. If you do not begin by talcing an interest in investigating the causes of disease, you will do nothing. A habit of reasoning on the facts which pre- sent themselves to your notice is essential to success in our pro- fession. The widest field of observation, rich in medical pheno- mena, is utterly useless without this habit. The experience of years in the most extensive practice is vain and valueless to the individual who has neglected to acquire it; and I believe that without the study of Physiology it has never been attained. But the study of Physiology alone will not give it. It is not to be acquired in a day ; it must be sought for with earnestness and determination. Attention—constant, unremitting attention, will alone give it. The time has been when you might meet two physicians, the one prescribing for symptoms, the other viewing the symptoms only in so far as they were indications of the disease from which they sprang. The latter a Physiologist, the former ignorant of the science, except in name. I consider, then, Anatomy and Physiology the essential groundwork of the profession. In the study of Physiology you will be most ably assisted by Dr. Bristowe and Mr. Ord, whose talents, and those of my other colleagues, you will no doubt soon appreciate as highly as I do. Anatomy and Physiology lead to Pathology, to which you must attend most diligently in all its details. Materia Medica and Chemistry are essential; and I have always observed that the man who ridicules the power ot medicine, does so because he is ignorant how to use the tools which have been graciously bestowed upon us by a bountiful Providence. The division of labour which takes place in a large capital like London is useful. It is advantageous to the public that certain men should especially devote their attention to the performance ot opera- tions, for constant practice as an operating surgeon alone gives13 dexterity. I cannot agree to that cant which would decry all operations as the opprobria medicorum. A carefully considered, judiciously contrived, and skilfully performed operation is a noble act. It requires a combination of qualities which are not often met with. If by the performance of an operation, dangerous, difficult, and therefore deeply anxious to himself, he sees a reasonable prospect of being able to save the life of a fellow-creature, lie must not weigh in the balance for one moment what the world, or even the profession, will say, if that operation, after all his care and skill, should prove fatal. In the dissecting-room you must acquire that knowledge of Anatomy, and that dexterity in the use of the knife, by which alone you can become skilful operators. During the short period that you are able to stop in London, you will not have a single hour to spare. You ought always to be in the dissect- ing-room during the time devoted to that purpose. Whether you have anything to dissect or not, you can still be learning looking over others ; not gossiping and smoking, but studying - in serious earnestness. Do not, however, misunderstand me: the knowledge you are to acquire in the dissecting-room is only a very small portion of the acquirements essential to a good surgeon. It is no use your knowing how to perform an operation skilfully, if you cannot treat yonr patient skilfully afterwards. This knowledge must be acquired in the wards of the hospital; not alone in the Surgical wards, but in the Physi- cians’ as well. You must study Medicine most diligently. You will meet with ten Medical cases in private practice to one Sur- gical, and that one Surgical case you cannot treat properly if you are ignorant of Medicine. No doubt there is more to catch the eye in the Surgical wards, and the results of Surgical treat- ment are more easily understood and observed ; but that is no reason for devoting exclusive or even greater attention to Sur- gery. The advance which the science of Surgery has made in this country during the last thirty years has been most remark- able, most gratifying to humanity, in its results. It is not merely that the great body of surgeons are better operators than they used to be ; it is not merely that the deaths from14 operations ai’e on the whole fewer than they used to be ; but it is this,—that more limbs are saved by the judicious and early interference of the surgeon. Many a foot and hand, many a leg and arm, have been saved in the last few years, which even twenty years ago would most certainly have been sacrificed. These especial operations con- stitute what has been fairly called Conservative Surgery, which, like true conservative politics, consists in the removal of abuses, but without the removal of time-honoured institutions. In either case the object is to correct and improve, not to uproot and destroy. In the science of Surgery, chloroform has enabled us to perform many operations, which previous to our knowledge of it we should have regarded as cruel, lest they should not be final. But chloroform alone has not established conservative Sur- gery. Without Medicine it never could have advanced as it has done. The surgeon is no longer a mere chirurgeon, or handi- ci*aftsman. He must be a sound pathologist, he must be a good physician, or he is no surgeon in the proper meaning of the term. Surgery and Medicine are one, and there must be no dis- tinction, gentlemen, between them in the study of your pro- fession. Injuries of the head strictly come under the dominion of the surgeon; but how soon the external treatment of these injuries sinks into nothing, as compared with the medical treatment of the brain and its membranes ; how soon the surgeon has to balance, especially if his patient is among the inhabitants of a large city, between those symptoms which are the result of the injury, and those which follow the effect of antiphlogistic measures on a shattered constitution, or that nervous depression which is caused by the withdrawal of a hard drinker’s accustomed stimulus. In this stage of the treatment an ignorant man may soon hurl his patient into eternity. Those of my hearers who are about to leave the hospital, having employed their time dili- gently in the medical wards, will recognize the truth of my words with pleasure, and rejoice that they have studied the treatment15 of diseases of the brain under tho physician with the same care that they have watched the progress, both pathologically and physiologically, of injuries of the brain under the surgeon; while those whose time for study is expired, whose money is spent, and who must now provide for their own subsistence, but who have neglected the wards, and still only know of diseases by their names, will mourn over their wasted time and ill-spent hours. From both these classes you may learn something, you may learn what to aim at and what to avoid. As regards Medicine and Surgery, I must tell you honestly that the best lectures ever delivered on the'se subjects can oidy teach you general principles. It is quite impossible that lectures can give rules to guide the young practitioner in every individual case which may come before his notice. You must regard these lectures as valuable aids, but as comparatively use- less unless you also observe every case that you can while here ; for hearing without observing is worth nothing. The wards that should first engage your attention are the Physicians’; as, unless you obtain a Clinical clerkship, you cannot obtain a Dressership, and without a Dressership you will have lost one of the greatest advantages which we have to offer. The very fact that our school is at present small, makes it easy for every industrious man to obtain a Dressership. I say at present advisedly, ag every year our numbers are creeping- up, and will very soon, I have no doubt, reach those they enjoyed in the palmy days of Sir Astley Cooper. I am afraid that some of the Dressers do not value their privileges as much as they should. I judge so from the fact that to a certain extent the details of their duties are not attended to as accurately as they ought to be. When I first came to this Hospital, every Dresser was obliged to pay £50 per annum for the privilege ; and as the article was dear, so was it valued. How that it may be obtained without money payment, by some, I am afraid, its advantages are not appreciated. When the difficulty becomes greater, it will, I dare say, rise in value again. Of this I am sure, that when, as practitioners, you are once involved in the meshes of a difficult surgical case, such as an16 obscure fracture of the base of the skull, and various others that I could mention, you will deeply repent any want of attention to the observation and registration of your cases during your Dressership. In connection with this subject, I cannot help referring to the fact that there is still a vast amount of bad surgery wandering about unheeded ; even in tbis great meti'opolis and its environs scarcely a year passes Avithout my seeing a case or two of frac- ture of tbe collar-bone in children undetected. Cases of frac- ture of the base of the radius undetected, fractures of tbe neck, of the thigh, undetected, &c.; so might I go on with a longer list. Now be so good as to remember that the surgeon cannot bury his mistakes as the physician. Many of your errors as surgeons will remain permanent and patent proofs of your ignorance and want of skill. I do not mean this in disparagement of Medicine ; as I have already said, no man can be a good surgeon unless he is also a good physician. 1 am well aware that this dogma will not be assented to by the surgeons of the old school; but, happily for surgical science, this old school is rapidly fading away. Having been perhaps a little severe on the subject of your duties as Dressers, I must not omit a few words of advice re- garding your amusements, for all work %nd no play makes Jack a dull boy. Never omit three or four miles’ quick Avalk or run every day; live well, do not starve. Join the foot-ball and cricket club, and the athletic sports,—in short, let your amuse- ments improve your health, and strengthen, not deteriorate it. Avoid nocturnal amusements of all kinds; burn the midnight oil for study, not dissipation. Keep holy the Sabbath day. To encourage you in carrying out your course of study to its fullest extent, the following Prizes have been instituted:— Our worthy Treasurer gives each year a gold medal. My old and A7alued friend, Mr. Tite, has endowed a scholar- ship with the intei’est of £1,000. Mr. George Vaughan gives the Cheselden Medal. Then we have Mr. Newman Smith’s prize, and one from the Grainger Testimonial Fund. While the Professors ol17 Medicine and Surgery and the allied sciences devote each year £271 to be distributed in this useful way. The distribution of these prizes, which you will witness this day, is to strengthen your good resolutions, and to stimulate you to do all that you can in the short time allotted to you. We wish by these meetings to show you that you must not be satisfied with mediocrity—you must strive after excellence. You will see by the list of prizes that we offer no mean reward for industry and intellectual acquirement. You will also observe, on looking down the list, that there is a gap : that the College Prize for £30 to third-year’s students has not been awarded ; and this arises from the fact that no student obtained a sufficient number of marks to be placed in the first class. I hope that you will not allow this to occur again. You will, however, perceive that they are really prizes, and not awarded unless, to the best of our belief, the merit is equal to the reward. In the year 1845 we were honoured by the presence of one of the best and greatest men who have held exalted rank in England—Prince Albert the Good. I must not here indulge myself with the expression of my admiration of his character. The world is at last beginning to understand and appreciate him ; but our Gracious Queen, who alone knew him in all his inward sincerity and purity, has scarcely received from the nation that continued sympathy for her bereavement which was due to her exalted and therefore lonely position. We, however, ol this old Royal Hospital of St. Thomas, can never forget the condescension and kindness which induced Prince Albert to distribute such prizes in our ancient Hall, which, alas ! like our honoured patron, exists no longer. Let me, then, hope that the very fact of your having entered here a3 pupils is an earnest of your determination to distinguish yourselves. This School, though now imperfectly enshrined, will in the course of two short years rise again in all its outward glory on the banks of the Thames. A School which dates its origin 156 years back, from the days of the immortal Cheselden. A School which numbers among its former Professors the names of Meade,18 Ratcliffe, Ainslie, Reynolds, Fordyce, Wells, Sir Charles Locock, Williams, Elliotson, and Roots, Cheselden, Sir Astley Cooper, Travers, Green, Tyrell, and South. The institution which gave rise to St. Thomas’s Hospital was founded 700 years ago, by St. Mary Ovarie, as an eleemosy- nary establishment. She Avas the daughter of a man who made a fortune by ferrying pilgrims and others from and to Canterbury across the Thames. It was in the first instance a religious convent, called after her own name. The surname, Ovre-rie, is supposed to signify, over the river, and is derived, like that of Smith or Turner, from the employment of the individual.- This convent was converted into a college of priests by a noble lady of the name of Switliin. To these priestly fathers our ancestors were indebted for the construction of London Bridge. After continuing for about a century, the priory was burnt down in 1212, and the building they erected to supply its place, temporarily, while it was rebuilt, stood where the old St. Thomas’s Hospital did before it was demolished by the Charing Cross Railway. It Avas afterwards used as the al- monery for “ indigent children and necessitous proselytes,” and dedicated to St. Thomas a Becket. In the 15th century St. Thomas’s Hospital was munificently supported by the Lord Mayor and Sheriffs of London, an example which has been followed in later times. On the 15th of July, 1586, it was claimed as Church property, and surrendered to Henry VIII., Avho intended re-endowing it for the reception of lame, Avounded, and diseased soldiers, but hisv death interfering with this plan, the citizens of London—to their honour be it told—revived the benevolent design, and, Avith the sanction of Edward VI., formed a board of inquiry as to the best mode of relieving the misery of their more unfortunate brethren. The result, as regards the foundation of St. Thomas’s, Avas that they purchased of Edward VI. the manor of Southwark; and the Avorthy citizens, in 1551, at the expense of £1,000, repaired and enlarged the Hospital for the reception of 800 patients.19 Tlie thousands of pounds which private charity thus expended, and is now expending, on this Institution, and the thousands more which have been paid to support with food and bedding its unfortunate inmates, would have been of comparatively little service, if men had not been found to study Medicine and dis- pense the healing art. The charity would have remained as in the days of St. Mary Ovarie, an alms-house, not an Hospital. Yes, gentlemen, it is—I say it proudly—the noble profession which many of you are this day about to enter, that gives character to this Institution. Need 1 say that such a profession is a glorious profession ? Need I say that to rank as one of its members is ennobling, and that to achieve high honour in it is an ambition worthy of a Christian, and, next to our eternal welfare, is worthy of all exertion. Before the existence of Medicine as a science, St. Thomas's Spital was in being, but it was only as a resting-place for pil- grims, and a home of refuge for the destitute. But you must not suppose, my friends, that the erection and endowment of this and other hospitals was sufficient to educe the science of Medicine. No, something more was wanting. Many years subsequent to the reign of Edward VI., we find the practice of Medicine in a miserable state. Macaulay tells us, in his account of the death of Charles II., that fourteen Physicians deliberated on his case, contradicting one another. “ Some of them thought his fit was epileptic, and that he should be suffered to have his doze out. The majority pronounced it apoplectic, and tortured him like a wild Indian at the stake. Then it was determined to call his complaint a fever and to administer bark. One physician, however, protested against this course, and assured the Queen that his brethren would kill the King among them.” Let me now ask you, gentlemen, why the physicians of that day were so ignorant of their profession, why they could not tell of what disease the King was labouring ? The answer is an important one to those who are entering the profession: they were ignorant of Anatomy, Physiology, and Pathology. They had patients enough under their care at St. Thomas’s and Guy’s, but they had no anatomical schools.20 The governors of these noble establishments had then only half understood their duties and responsibilities. They paid their medical officers for their services, but they did not provide for their proper and efficient education, without which their practice was empirical and their services imperfect. The ignor- ance of the surgeons also of the art of prescribing, even a few years later (in 1G89), may be presumed by the following minute in the records of this Hospital:—“ General Court.—‘ Ordered, that the ancient rule of this Hospital, that no chirurgeon shall give any physic to any patient admitted into this house, but that the doctor alone be left to prescribe physic to all patients, be confirmed, and for the future strictly observed.’ ” But strange to say, gentlemen,—and the fact is one, amongst others, which might be adduced to show how rules adopted in times of darkness are often absurdly continued unto days of light,—this rule has only been abolished within my own time. I remember, when I was attending the Physician’s practice with Dr. Scott, in 1824, Mr. Green’s book being handed to him to sign, as a permit for dispensing the medicine he had prescribed for his patients, Dr. Scott remarked contemptuously, “ These surgeons have quite a cacoetJies scribendi now-a-days.” There are none of us, however long we may have been engaged in the study and practice of our profession, who do not feel that we occasionally require reminding of the weighty and solemn character of the duties we have undertaken to fulfil. If this observation applies to men who, in the active discharge of their duties, necessarily, from the very fallibility of human intellect, meet with severe losses to stimulate them to constant study, how much more will it apply to those who are only commencing them career, and who cannot possibly conceive the difficulties to which they will one day be exposed. Our profession must not be embraced merely as a source of emolument. The alleviation of the distresses of our fellow- creatures ought to be our first consideration. We are not irre- sponsible agents. We are the servants of the public, and by our ignorance or knowledge may scatter misery or diffuse blessings. If a man in trade fail in his undertakings, he suffers the penalty of his ignorance, not necessarily involving the happiness of others. But with us the health and happiness of our fellow-21 creatures are more or less in our hands; and if we, through ignorance, sacrifice the lives of our patients, we commit crimes for which we shall be accountable to an All-wise Judge hereafter. It is, then, my friends, a matter of the deepest moment to you at this season of your lives to study your profession, that in future years you will be able to look back without regret upon this the seed-time of your education. I cannot conclude this imperfect Introductory Address with- out saying a few words regarding the future of St. Thomas’s. Behind me you see a drawing of the building of St. Thomas’s Hospital as it is to be : you cannot fail to observe it3 noble elevation. Its internal arrangements are as perfect as the ingenuity of collective wisdom can make it. The contract for the superstructure has been let; and it is provided in the contract that the two pavilions next the centre, with the necessary offices and out-patients’ departments, the centre block, containing chapel and resident Medical Officer’s apartments, and the School buildings, are to be completed by Michaelmas, 1869, and the remainder by Lady Day, 1870. I feel, therefore, confident, considering the energy of our ex- cellent Treasurer, the zeal and ability of our Architect, and the good faith of our Contractor, that the Introductory Lecture for the session of 1869 will be delivered in our new Hospital at Stangate. I must now conclude, as is usual at all banquets—intellectual or otherwise—with a few words regarding the Ladies. I have pointed out that all the money spent in charity would have been useless, if men had not been found to study Medicine and minister the healing art. With almost equal truth might I say, tha,t not only would the Hospital be useless, but the skill of the physician and surgeon also, if good earnest women had not been found to aid us in our ministration— “ 0, woman! in our hours of ease, Uncertain, coy, and hard to please, And variable as the shade By the light quivering aspen made ; When pain and anguish wring the brow, A ministering angel thou ! ”22 The Hospital lias long enjoyed the earnest, honest, and judicious services of a lady of whom it is impossible to speak too highly,—I mean Mrs. Wardroper. The Institution for training nurses by means of the funds of the Nightingale Testimonial, has not merely materially improved the system of nursing in this Hospital, but it has been of infinite service to suffering humanity, by sending forth into the world a phalanx of nurses such as have never issued from any public institution before. The very mention of the Nightingale Fund reminds me of Mr. Whitfield’s services in reference to its management, and the zealous interest he has for years shown in all the details of our School. It must not, however, be supposed that we were without good nurses previous to the advent of Mrs. Wardroper or the train- ing of the Nightingale nurses. Our head nurses, or sisters, as we still, I rejoice to say, call them, were women whose conduct was above all praise ; and in one especial instance, whose know- ledge of our profession was perfectly marvellous,—I allude to Mrs. Roberts, who went out to the Crimea with Miss Nightingale. Another of this noble band has lately been taken from us,— poor Sister Abraham; but, happily, wre have at least still one left of that glorious old school,—I mean the present Sister Accident. Now farewell! But, before we part, let me again insist, that in order to attain that excellence to which I give you all the credit of aspiring, you must make the Dissecting- room, the Lecturing Theatre, the Chemical Laboratory, and the Wards of the Hospital your dwelling-place. Works on Anatomy, Physiology, Chemistry, Medicine, and Surgery should be your bosom friends, and the noble profession of Medicine, in its most extended meaning, the only goddess of your idolatry. Printed by Woodfall and Kinder, Milford Lane, Strand, London, W.tIKING’S College LONDON To HUS «ft>C Library SdlL'f L /N~(roc UCCody mt 201096206 3 KING’S COLLEGE LONDON