246 oy HERNIA. gulated hernia, under the care of Mr. Chandler. The dresser came up to me (I was in one of the squares of the hospital at the time), and said that he was going to see for Mr. Chandler, and that if he were not at home, he would request me to operate. Mr. Chandler not being at home, I was sent for to perform the operation. There was a blush on the parts, which, together with their soft state, led me to think that gangrene had commenced ; this opinion I soon found to be correct. As soon as I made an incision through the integument, there was a strong smell of pu- tresence and faeces, I proceeded, opened the hernial sac, and turned it aside to expose the intestine, and divided the stricture; the gut appeared almost in too bad a state to return. It then struck me, that I could relieve this patient, and I made an in- cision an inch long on the front of the intestine, allowed the faeces to escape, and returned the intestine to the abdomen. The operation was performed on a Friday, feculent matter continued to discharge through the wound, and not by the regular canal, till the Wednesday following. Two days after this, a week from the operation, she had several stools per anum, of a greenish colour, and the patient repovered. Some time after, Mr. Brown, of Rotherhithe, a very respectable surgeon, called on me, and said that I should be surprised to hear that the patient I had oj>e- rated on in this hospital, at such a time, had been delivered of a full-grown child, A curious circumstance attending this L% that she was with child at the time of the operation and did not miscarry. The operation was performed in March, and the woman was brought to bed in August, at which time there was no appearance of any thing to be seen. The learned professor now went through the diflferent steps of the operation for strangulated hernia on the dead subject, precisely in the way recommended in another part of the lec- ture. LECTURE XXIX. The subject of Hernia continued. I MENTIONED to you, gentlemen, in the last lecture the mode in which the intestines are to be treated under the different circum- stances of adhesion, gangrene, ot strangulation. But there is one point I omitted on that occasion. There is a peculiar sort oi