582 ON SYPHILIS AND THE USE OF MERCURY. of great irritability, and that he had belter, for a time, go to the sea-side, use the warm bath, and then return to me again. Some time after he did return to me, so much altered, that I did not know him, for he was looking florid, and had grown quite lusty. He told me that he had come back perfectly recovered, without having taken a single grain of mercury; therefore, gentlemen, when you see disease situated in those parts liable to syphilis, and which disease resembles syphilis, you should be particularly cautious in forming your judgment, and take care not to submit your patient to a course of mercury, which will probably render his condition a thousand times worse. Before you administer a course of mercury, you should possess the most unequivocal evi- dence of its being required : and when you are in doubt as to the nature of those diseases which resemble syphilis, your best plan will be to administer five grains of the pil. hydrarg. submur. compos, somni nocte, et 3viij. decoct, sarsaparil. compos, two or three times in the day. These medicines will be found the best for the cure of the disease upon the principle of restoring the secretions. The next question is, Is Syphilis always progressive without the use of mercury ?— The answer will be found in the reply to the following question; Is Chancre curable without the use of Mer- cury 1—To this I reply, that mercury is by no means necessary to procure the healing of the chancres, at least not always. Some chancres certainly will not heal without mercury, and this is more especially the case when they are deep seated, or of long standing ; but, on the other hand, when the sore is slight, super- ficial, and recent, a wash composed of brandy and water, or wine and water, will often cause them to heal without any other appli- cation ; therefore, mercury is by no means always necessary to procure the healing of chancres ; but chancre, as described by Mr. Hunter, according to his account, will not heal without it; it is now, however, well known that the position taken by Mr. Hunter is untenable, and that mercury is not in every instance necessary to accomplish the healing of chancres. On the infiuence of mercury on the Human Body. — The modus operandi of mercury has been supposed to be, that of ex- citing in the system a general fever, which overcomes and sub- dues the syphilitic action. This may or may not be true. God only knows. We are well acquainted with the fact, that many medicines have a specific influence over certain diseases; but we