DISLOCATIONS OF THE THIGH-BONE. 647 inwards, but less so than in the dislocation upwards; the knee is only very slightly bent, and, therefore, is not so much advanced as in that dislocation. The toe touches the ground when the patient is standing, but not so the heel. Flexion and rotation are, in a great degree, prevented, from the limb being so firmly fixed. Here (shewing a preparation) is a very good specimen of this dislocation, which, from its appearance, must have been many years in its present situation. A new capsular ligament is formed, the original acetabulum is entirely filled up by a ligamen- tous substance; but there is no attempt made to forma new bony socket for the head of the bone. This dislocation is produced by the knee being pressed inwards, whilst bent at right angles with the abdomen, or whilst the trunk is bent forwards on the thigh. The reduction is generally ex- tremely difficult, but is best effected in the following way :—Let the patient be laid on a table, on his side, and a girt passed between the pudendum and inner part of the thigh, to fix the pelvis; then pass a wetted roller round the knee, and buckle the leather strap over it; let a napkin be carried under the upper part of the thigh; next, bring the thigh over the middle of the oppo- site one, and then begin to make your extension with the pullies. Whilst the extension is making, an assistant should grasp firmly the napkin at the upper part of the thigh with one hand ; and, resting the other hand on the pelvis, he should lift the thigh as much as possible towards the acetabulum, so as to get the head of the bone over its edge. I have also directed a round towel to be used for this purpose; this is passed beneath the upper part of the thigh, and then carried overthe shoulders of an assis- tant, who then rested both hands on the pelvis, and, by raising his body gently, raised the thigh with it. If the assistant should be very short (said the Lecturer smilingly), why, he might rest one foot on a chair, and place the other on the pelvis of the patient, and might in this way, perhaps, raise the bone as effectu- ally as a descendant of the race of the Titans—(a laitgh). This dislocation has been reduced by making extension with the pul- lies in a right line with the body; and at the time this extension was made, the trochanter major was thrust forwards wilh tho hand. But the former method it the most easy, and is that which I generally adopt. Of the Ditlor.alion on the Pube$.—This accident happens in the following manner :—If a person, whilst walking, puts his foot into some unexpected hole, he throws his body suddenly back-