ON SYPHILIS AND THE USE OF MERCURY. 579 merely local. What, gentlemen, should I say if one of you were to come to me to-morrow, stating that you had a chancre about eight, nine, or ten weeks ago, and that you had felt yourself exceedingly indisposed, having evening exacerbations, fever and sore throat, and that at length your body had become covered with a copper coloured eruption ; how can we say that there is no constitutional affection here? Do not the evening’s exacer- bations, which commence about five o’clock and do not terminate till two, or later, in the morning, plainly shew that the disease, when so far advanced, is constitutional ? Most certainly it is so, and can scarcely be any longer a matter of dispute. It is not necessary that you should study much, for the pur- pose of being enabled to understand this constitutional influence ; go to-morrow into the foul wards of these hospitals, find any man there having weuereal sore throat; you will ask him but very few questions befoi e you are convinced that the con- stitutional influence has been produced. The next question I have put down is. Whether the Matter of secondary Venereal Ulcer be infectious or not?—Mr. Hunter said, that it was not so; however, for my own part, from what I have both seen and heard, I s’nould hesitate a considerable time before I could join in this assertion. A physician of my acquaintance witnessed the fol- lowing case: A gentleman came from the country in an exceedingly anxiaus state of mind, and evidently very much agitated, for the purpose of consulting him respecting an eruption which existed on the body of his lady; accordingly the doctor visited the lady, and found the eruption to be venereal. The doctor asked the gentleman how long he had been married, and he replied, six months: he added, that four months before mar- riage he had a sore on the penis, which was healed by local applications: three months after marriage both his wife and himself had had sore throats, which were soon cured by taking mercury. During this time, and during the existence of the venereal eruptions, not knowing tlie nature of the complaint, the connubial intercourse had been continued. Now, if any dependence can be placed on the report of this gentleman, the case is most decisive of the matter of secondary ulcer being capable of propagating the disease, for ho had no primary symptoms by which the complaint could have been communicated to his wife, as the chancre was healed fovtr months previous to mairiagc. I do not know, but I 2 p 2