651 FRACTURES OF TFJE THIGH-BONE. neck of the bone, and the comparative feebleness of constitution, in the former. It occurs in persona of advanced age, and it is a mistake to talk of its happening in young persons. Although I have been now thirty-nine years at Guy’s and St. Thomas’s Hos- pitals, and have had more than my share of the practice of the metropolis during that time, I have seen more than two hundred and twenty-five casqs of fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, within the capsular ligament, yet I have only known two persons in whom this accident occurred under fifty years of age. This fracture, then, rarely happens under fifty years of age, and dislo- cation seldom at a more advanced period. But the most common period at which fracture occurs is between fifty and eighty. The reason why the bone breaks so much more readily in age, is, that there is a peculiar process taking place in age, which is producing an entire alteration in the structure of the head and neck of the bone. The natural changes which thus take place in the bones, in different periods of life, are remarkable; they in- crease in bulk and weight in youth, they remain stationary during the adult period, and become lighter and softer in the more ad- vanced stages of life. You may cut the bones of old persons with a penknife, which you could not do at the adult period. The neck of the bone undergoes an interstitial absorption, by which it becomes shortened and altered in its relation with the shaft of the bone; so that the head of the bone, instead of being above the level of the trochanter, sinks almost to its root. Indeed, the bones of an old person may be readily distinguished in the skele- ton, from those of a person at the middle period of life. The slightest causes often produce fractures in this state of the bone. The way in which they usually happen in London, is from the person slipping off the foot pavement, and, though it is only the descent of a few inches, the unexpected shock acting pemendicularly on the cervix, with the advantage of a lever, pro- duce.T a .tw,;ture. The patient immediately falls, and the accident is very frequently improperly attributed to this circumstance. Even turning suddenly round has produced it. The union of this fracture has been the cause of much differ- ence of opinion. It has been said that these fractures will unite like futures in other parts of the body, by bone; but I have taught for the last thirty years, in these lectures, that, as a general principle, fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone, . f the patella, olecranon, coronoid process of the ulna and contl'yles ot the os humeri, unite by ligament, and not by bone. In all the