ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 387 dissection than from anything without. When you dissect a scirrhous tumour, you see a number of roots jiroceediug to a con- siderable distance, and if you remove the tumour only, and not the roots, there will be little advantage from the operation ; no glan- dular structure, nor any of the roots should be allowed to remain. Bear in mind what I said of giving medicines before and after the operation. Before the removal of a scirrhous tumour, put the pa- tient under a course of alterative medicines, and afterwards do the same, else the operation will be of no use ; in a large proportion of operations the disease returns ; I have found it difficult to stale an average. Jf 1 were asked, “in one half of the cases 1” I should say “ no “ if one fourth Y’ “ no but still the disease returns in the breast or other parts of the body, after^an operation in'a great number of cases—still I perform the operation , and why 1 because I feel it my duty to say to a patient with this complaint, that “ there is only one chance for you, and that is, an opera- tion : it sometimes prevents the return of the disease, and it may do it in your case.” “If this is my only hope,” she says, “ I will submit to it immediately.” Another reason why I perform it is, that now and then you see a patient with this disease in a state of ulceration, worn out by frequent bleedings, fcEtid dis- charge, and most horrible pains; by removing it, hope is again revived, and she is again restored for months, and sometimes years, to a state of comparative ease. On these two accounts, although an operation may be unsuccessful in one case, and is sure to be so in the other, yet I perform it, for a surgeon is obliged to do it at the solicitation of his patient. LECTURE XLIV. Fungus H,tMATODKs. Vanious names have been given to this disease; it was origl. nally called soft cancer, but having been found materially to differ from true cancerous disease, that name was relinquished, nid the one given to it by the late Mr. Hey of Leeds, viz., Fun- »us Mamatodes, is that which is now generally employed. Although this affection has some resemblance to scirrhous •ubeicle, yet it differs from it in very many and esseniiul particu- lars ; one of which is, that it attacks persons of all ages after puberty ; whereas the scirrhous tubercle, as I explained to you B my last kcture, does not attack the very young, as we rarely 2 c 2