ON ABSCESSES OF THE .URETHRA. 513 hod failed; in this case there was a fistula in perin®o behind the stricture. 1 have now to make two or three observations on the conse- quences of introducing bougies ; here is a preparation (holding it up), in which you see the bougie forced out of the urethra into the scrotum, just by the bulb: here is another preparation, in which the bougie was forced into the bulb itself. Now, when- ever you suspect a tear of the urethra in passing a bougie, im- mediately withdraw the instrument, and desire the patient, if pos- sible to retain his urine, that it may not irritate the wound, and also to prevent its escaping through the opening,'and becoming extravasated in the surrounding cellular substance. In this way you give time for a clot of blood to form over the surface of the wound—a slight degree of inflammation is excited, and it becomes healed by the adhesive process, without any further mischief. Another circumstance I wish to mention to you is, that the pass- ing of a bougie is sometimes attended with very considerable he- morrhage from the urethra. A practitioner once called upon me in a great hurry, but whose name I will not mention, for I do not wish to hurt him, although he is not at all calculated to practise surgery; well, this person called upon me, and requested me to go immediately and see a patient of his, who had a profuse bleed- ing from the penis, occasioned by the introduction of a bougie. I went and found as he had stated ; I pressed a roller upon the perinaeum, which instantly checked the flow of blood. A short time afterwards I was sent for to the same patient, from the he- morrhage having returned ; this gentleman had been lounging before the fire, with a foot on each side of the chimney-piece; the warmth coming in contact with the perinaeum, nad brought on a renewal of the hemorrhage. I now made an incision upon the part, and divided the artery of the bulb ; this operation com- pletely succeeded, and the bleeding was permanently subdued. LECTURE LVII. The first subject of this evening's lecture will be Abscesses in the Lacuna; of the UnETiinA. After the violence of the gonorrhcel inflammation has subsided, you frequently feel along the under surface of the urethra a num- ber of small knotty tumours ; these, in the course of a short time, successively discharge themselves into the urethra, and theswell- 2 1.