245 ON HEUNLV Uut there is one point that I have not spoken of, on which I will say a few words: the direction in which you are to divide the stricture so as to avoid the epigastric artery ; it has been said that this artery has been made a bug-bear to frighten students, and that the danger ot wounding it has been magnified ; but gen- tlemen, look at the specimen (exhibiting one to the class) con- tained in this glass ; see the effects of dividing this artery ; I might say, here is murder— “ Out damn’d spot.” This specimen was sent me by Mr. Lawrence, an excellent urgeon, the bare mention of whose name will be sufficient to awaken feelings of respect in the minds of all for his character as a surgeon, an anatomist, and a man. Mr. Lawrence dissected t from a patient who had died after the operation for strangulated nernia, and he found that the epigastric artery had been divided ; thinking that it would be a valuable addition to the museum, he was kind enough to send it. One of our gentlemen was so un- fortunate as to divide the artery, because he cut inwards instead of outwards, thinking that the hernia was inclined a little in that direction ; therefore a person who is an excellent anatomist may wound the epigastric artery, if he divide the stricture in a lateral direction ; but not so if he follow the rule that I have laid down, viz., to cut directly upwards. You must divide the stric- ture in the centre, and cut upwards, let the hernia be where it may; bear this rule in mind, and you will be in no danger of wounding the epigastric artery. 1 will now tell you how you are to treat the omentum and intestine. There is some difficulty in ascertaining whether the intestine be gangrenous or not; it there be any dark brown spots on it do not let that prevent you from returning it. Sometimes the intestine adheres to the sac ; if the adhesions be slight, break them down with the finger, or divide them very cautiously with the knife. If they are in general strong, the best plan will be to eompletely divide the stricture, so as to return the strangulation, and leave the intestine in an irreducible state. An irreducible hernia is not dangerous, provided there be no strangulation. You will know whether the intestine be in a gangrenous state from the appearance of thick green spots, which may be eadly broken down with the nail. VV hat would you do under such circumstances ' I cannot do better than relate a case in whlth you will have both precept and example; A woman was brought to this hospital with stran-