36 LOCAL TREATjMENT OF IXFLAMMATION he would absolutely die, so extensive is the exhaustion that it occasions. Here, then, is direct proof of what heal and moisture can do, when they are applied generally ; and, when used locally, their action on the part is precisely the same. Fomentations are ordered precisely with the same view, viz., to restore the secretions of the part, by which the tension of the vessels is removed, and the pain much abated. Fomentations occasionally are medicated, being composed of camomile flowers, poppy-heads, &c., but I do not consider that these possess any advantage over mere water, at least where the surface of the skin is unbroken. Poultices are likewise used upon the same principle ; the kind of poultice is of little consequence, provided, as in the preceding case, the skin be entire. The next method of relieving inflammation is by the applica- tion of leeches, which relieve upon the same principle as poultices and fomentations, viz., by abstracting from the part a portion of its fluids, and consequently lessening the pain and tension ; after the leeches drop off, the bleeding must be encouraged ; this may be done by bathing the part with warm water, and wiping it fre- quently with a warm sponge. To some persons, and in some situations, however, the appli- cation of leeches is attended with very great inconvenience ; as occasionally, for example, in inflammation of the testicles. We do not find this an inconvenience in the hospitals ; but frequently in private practice we see persons to whom it is of the greatest consequence that a bleeding from these parts should be con- cealed. Now, as there is much mess, trouble, and consequent exposure, from an application of leeches, what we do in such cases is this : we request the person to stand before us, and, with a lancet, puncture some of the small veins on the front of the scrotum ; in this manner, and with a little wann water, you ab- stract any portion of blood you wish ; and, what is of very great consequence, you stop it when you please ; for, by placing the patient in a recumbent posture, and by applying some cold water to the punctures, the blood will immediately cease to flow. In this way, then, you may take blood from the scrotum, when the testicles are inflamed, with very little trouble, and without any exposure. [The learned I.eclurer here said, at the same time putting his hand upon one of the recently amputate;! stumps lying upon the