DISLOCATIONS OF THE RIBS. 624 completely recovered at the end of ten weeks. In one case of concussion, it was found, on dissection, that the spinal marrow was lacerated, and the person died with paralysis of the lower extremities and abdomen. It was found in an experiment which Mr. Cline made on the spinal marrow of a dog, that it reunited after dividing it, by pressure. Mr. H. Cline was the 6rst man w^ took a scientific view of fractures of the vertebrae, attended with displacement. He proposed removing the arch of the dis- placed vertebrae, by Key’s saw. He performed the operation once, but not successfully, and he had not an opportunity of re- peating it. Mr. T)rrell very lately performed the same operation; he made an incision on the depressed bone, as the patient waa fying on his chest, and removed the arch; the patient lived three Weeks afterwards. On dissection there was extensive peritoneal inflammation found, but from what cause it arose is difficult to say. There as no reason why the operation should not be per- formed; it is not difficult; it gives no pain, and the patient cannot recover unless it be tried; it gives him, therefore, the best possible chance. There is a greater probability of recovery in the lumbar than when the injury is received in the dorsal vertebras. LECTURE LXX. Gentlemen, cases of dislocations of the ribs have been de- scribed by different authors; such Cases must be extremely rare, and must also be very difficult to detect. Their heads are said to be thrown from their articulations on the bodies of the vertebras. But I have never seen such a case. There is fre- quently a great irregularity of the cartilages, which is mistaken for dislocation. This arises from constitutional weakness; the arch of the rib is diminished, the sides flattened, and therefore the extremity of the ribs with the cartilages thrust forward. It is generally the result of rickeu. Very rarely a cartilage may be torn from its connexion with the sternal end of the rib, and projects over its surface. The same treatment would be neces- sary as in fracture of the ribs. Desire the patient to make a deep inspiration, then depress the projecting cartilage, put a wetted pasteboard splint upon the part, and apply a flannel roller over it.