328 OPENING FROM THE 3AC TO THE CHEEK thus made in the sac, it is rendei'ed permanent, or kept open, bj the flow of pus and tears out of the wound, over the cheek; the disease then arrives at the third stage. Fistulous Opening rnCM the Sac to the Cheek. • In this stage of the complaint, the patient is distressed a good deal by frequent returns of inflammation and suppuration of the sac. Treatment.—Although various means have been attempted in the cure of this complaint, no plan has been yet laid down that has proved successful; or, at least, the benefit to be derived from the means and treatment recommended, is in most cases very slight. In many cases little need be done but to evacuate the sac, for the purpose of preventing irritation in those cases where there is simple distension of the sac. One cause of this complaint is a vitiated state of the follicles of Meibomius; when matter is secreted and the eye-lids are closed together, and irritation is thus produced in the lachrymal sac-^in these cases the lids should be washed with tepid water, and smeared every night at bed- time, with a little of the unguentum hydrargyri nitratis. By this means, and attending to the constitution, and removing irritation as it arises, the patient may remain in that state for years. When the obstruction is complete, the distension considerable, the attacks of inflammation frequent, and suppuration has commenced, ano- ther kind of treatment must be adopted ; in this stage the object of your treatment will be to effect a natural passage for the flow of the tears, that is, through the nasal duct, instead of their flow- ing over the face. Anel is the first who attempted to procure a passage for the matter and tears into the sac, when the natural one was obstructed; and this he did by introducing a very fine probe through one of the puncta and the lachrymal sac to the ductus ad nasum, and thus dilated the stricture ; but the instru- ment was so flexible and thin, that it was ill calculated to over- come the obstruction. My friend, Mr Travers, who has had most extensive opportunities of watching the progress and trying the effect of different treatments in this disease, recommends the use of an instrument of this kind ; it is, however, somewhat dif- ferent ; it is more nail-headed, and not of the same exceeding fineness, being more effectual for removing the obstruction. Anel likewise constructed a small syringe, the mouth of which was to be introduced into one of the puncta, tepid water was then to