ON TIC DOULOUREUX. i72 it. I can state, however, that this application {as well as others of a similar nature) has, by its irritative qualities, produced a rapid disease of the glands, shortly after having been applied to the ulcer on the lip. In removing the disease with the knife, you should make an opening in the lip, similar to what has been advised in single hare lip; that is, it should be a triangular portion of the lip, in- cluding the disease, entirely cut out; the integuments can then be easily approximated, and kept in their proper situation by as many ligatures as the size of the wound shall seem to require ; generally speaking, two will be found quite sufficient. In re- moving cancer of the under lip, you divide the inferior labial artery; and you stop the hemorrhage by adopting the same method as was recommended in the hare-lip operation. Before we part, I must entreat your patience, while I describe to you the disease called Tic Docloubeox. It is a dreadfully painful affection of the nerves of the face, but of what nature is difficult to say: the nerves in this disease are not in an inflamed state most certainly, for under the most horrid suffering they are found of a natural colour; the nerves are not increased eitlier in their usual size, but, on the contrary, are found to be rather diminished. Mr. Thomas dissected a gentleman, in whom the mb-orbilar nerve had been affected, and the nerve on that side was found considerably less than the nerve of the opposite side. Again, I think the disease to be one of di- minished action, rather than of increased; and it has been found that stimulating, exciting medicines, are more beneficial than those of an opposite character. The pain experienced by lho.se afflicted with tic douloureux, is, I believe, indescribable—it is of the most acute and distress- ing kind—I have seen it cause the tears to trickle down the cheeks of a fine old weather-beaten naval officer—a man, who had fearlessly faced the cannon’s mouth. After I had once di- vided the nerve for this complaint, I asked the lady who had been the subject of the operation, which gave her the most pain, the division of the nerve or the disease 1 “ Oh,” said she, “ the operation is a bed of roses in comparison with the agony occasioned by the disease.” I was at one time visiting a patient afflicted with it, in company with Air. Row, ot Burton Crescent,