TREATMENT OF CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. 3S fections. People have been arguing about words rather than ideas, but it really is not worth while to attend to such fastidious, nonsensical objections as have been started against this remedy. Though cold is not a positive agent, yet it is capable of affording great relief in inflammation—first, by lessening the size of the vessels—secondly, by lessening action, which it effects by dimi- nishing nervous irritability. If cold be applied to the system ge- nerally, it has the power of lessening the frequency of the pulse in an extraordinary degree. I , have tried this upon myself. I went out of my house one evening into the garden when warm, my pulse being 86 ; at the expiration of an hour it was 76 ; at the end of tivo hours, was reduced to 65 j and l»ad not only les- sened in quickness, but also in fulness. Cold will produce tor- por, and even death. A curious instance of tliis kind occurred near Halifax, in Nova Scotia : Dr. Scott had been dining a little way in the country with some friends, and they were on their return at night, when one of the party separated from the rest, saying to a companion, that he would frighten some of them by-and-by. However, they reached Halifax without seeing any thing more of him. At this the party became alarmed for his safety, and returned for the •purpose of finding him. He was discovered behind a hillock of snow, in an erect position, but quite dead. Another curious instance of this kind is related in Cooke’s Voyages, when some of the officers and crew of one of the ships were landing at Terra del Fuego. Dr. Solander, who was of the party, particularly cautioned them not to go to sleep; and said that it was exceedingly dangerous to do so in cold situa- tions. It happened, however, that the Doctor was himself the first who became drowsy ; it was with the greatest difficulty that his companions could keep him in motion : and it was only by the utmost perseverance that they succeeded in getting him back to the ship alive. When cold Ls applied to an inflamed part, it lessens its nervous energy, and robs it of its heat; but cold must be severe indeed if it bring the internal parts of the body below a temperature of PS®, In this country, in the winter, many of the external parts of the body vary in temperature from 20'> to 30®; thus a thermo- meter applied to the toes when they are cold will be found to iridicate 20® of heat less than it would do if applied to the calf n