ON bYPinHS AND THE USE OF MERCURY. 583 know nothing of the peculiar mode of action on the part of the medicine by which it overpowers and destroys the disease. Would not a man be laughed at, who attempted to point out the manner in which bark cures ague, or colchicum gout? In the present state of our knowledge, it is impossible, satisfactorily, to account for these phenomena ; sufficient experiments have not yet been made to guide our judgment, or direct our minds to- wards a correct and positive conclusion. To possess satisfactory information on this point may be desirable ; but I consider it of much more consequence to know how to effectually cure a dis- ease, and prevent its return. I say, if once a surgeon permit the secondary symptoms of syphilis to appear, that it is difficult to say where the dangerous consequences will terminate—difficult to point out what may prove the sequel. Gentlemen, I can tell you that, twenty years ago, it was considered a great disgrace to a surgeon to permit secondary^ symptoms to appetir : at that time the great object was to effectually cure the primary symptoms, so as altogether to prevent the occurrence of the secondary ; unfor- tunately, at the present time, secondary symptoms present them- selves to our notice, and much more frequently than twenty years ago. I will tell you how it happens : practitioners, at that period, were in the habit of giving mercury in every case of ve- nereal disease, whether primary or secondary, and administered the remedy with a regularity and caution which I wish were ob- served at the present day; they used to exhibit the mercury not only whilst the disease laisted, but for some time after it had dis- appeared ; and their usual practice was to give it, three weeks for chancre, a month for a chancre and bubo, and, if for secondary symptoms, the remedy was continued for a still longer period. Though the disease should disappear quickly after beginning the mercury, yet remember that it is not cured, and the medicine should be continued for the above-mentioned period. If the me- dicine be omitted for two or three days, you should consider this as so much lost time; and it must not be forgotten in the aggre- gate account. 'J'hree weeks will be generally found a sufficient length of time for the cure of a chancre; a month fora chancre and bubo; and, in case of secondary symptoms, the patient will not be safe until the expinition of five or six weeks. Tersoos often go to medical men with chancres, receive from practitioners a box O' two of pills, and are then sent about their business. A man tud better never vi.-it a doctor at all than be submitted to