36'9 OV DISEASES OF THE BREAST. the accumulation of saliva, and given rise to the irritation experienced by the patient. Sometimes a small channel is formed through the stone, which allows of the escape of the saliva; but in all cases the degree of irritation depends of the retention of the saliva. A gentleman with whom I fa ■< merly lived had a stone in his submaxillary duct, and he used to say to me that he had a curious sensation in his mylo- hoideus muscle, a spasm of that muscle; this continued for weeks and months ; but one day he sent for me, and said that he had discovered the cause of the irritation that he had so long felt in the mylo-hyoideus muscle ; that it was a stone formed in the submaxillary duct; he requested me to take it out for him, which I did. With respect to the operation required for the removal of stones from this part—you must place your huger under the jaw, and press against the gland ; an assist- ant holds the cheek on one side, so as to bring it as far as possible .0 the ear; you then perceive the duct under the tongue ; you raise the duct and tongue, and feel for the stone, and having dis- covered it, you elevate the cyst, and with a cataract knife cut on the stone, and then with the end of a hook you pull it out; it is very easily removed, and there is no danger of wounding any vessels, supposing you press the duct towards the mouth ; if you omit this, you may wound some artery, and have troublesome hemorrhage; raise then the duct as much as you possibly can in performing this operation. We now come to the diseases of the breast. You find the breast subject to cancerous affections, and others of a different character; some that are not dangerous to life, though they require an operation for their cure—others that are not dangerous, and do not require an operation—and you find it also subject to some disease which, with an operation or any other means that you may try generally terminates unsuccessfully. We shall first speak of the. Hydatid, or Encysted Swelling or the Breast. TTie breast is liable to the formation of a swelling, which is at first hard, and afterwards passes into the fluid state, called the hydatid, or encysted swelling of the breast; it consists of nume- rous cysts, containing water, as in hydatids or cysts that are found in any other part of the body. There are but two species «t this complaint, the one which contains a fluid, like serum in cells, the other a globular hydatid, such as is found in the liver 2 B