148 t)N WOUNDb OS TUE BIIAIN. lionttl to you a few evenings since. Though you succeed in keeping down inflammation, fungus will spring up ; and here ^eichihltinuf a Dreoaration') vou have an ouuor.umtv of seeing an ^lainpie oi me disease to wnich I allude. Sometimes wounds 01 the brain extends even to the ventricles, and here (showing another preparation) you observe that one of the lateral ventri- cles was laid open. itfow, gentlemen, some days after the brain has been wounded, thi- aivided parts begin to unite by means of the adhesive inflam- niatun ; if this process cannot effect a cure, granulations form, which at length project through the opening in the skull, and give rise so the fungus before mentioned. Upon proper treat- raciu the safety of your patient depends. If you do not repress the growth the fungus, there will be violent constitutional irrita- tiun, and the life of the person in jeopardy ; but, on the contrary, if >au attend to the condition of the wound, and prevent the fung,iu, from rising, there will be, comparatively speaking, but little danger. Well, gentlemen, the treatment is as follows;—You are to apply to the fungus a piece of lint, wetted with liquor calcis, and over this, strapping of adhesive plaister; when you examine the part on the following day, you will find tlie fungu* <*onsider- ably diminished ; you are then to use a thicker piece of lint, and the strapping as before ; pursuing this pikii, you at length p«' the fungus to the level of the scalp ; but this is not sufficiently low for your purpose, therefore you mus» still thicken the lint until you have succeeded in getting it evei, with the edges of the dura mater, in which position it mus* be cautiously preserved ; when, at last, the dura mater heals over it, and your object is ac- complished. We witness maiiy examples of such "Sscs in these hospitals. Pormerly it wa3 ihe practice in the treatment of these diseastss to remove the bone contiguous to the fungus: immense quantities of bone in this manner were taken away, thereby af- fording every facility to the growth of the fungus, and which, of course rapidly increaised, until the patient was destroyed. By such treatment as this, no person could possibly recover; the me- ihod was a most injurious and stupid one : therefore let me caution you against adopting it. The plan of treatment which I have just recommended to you is, unquestionably the best: viz., that of repressing the growA of the fungus until the dura mater heals over it.