692 ON SCROFULA. cond indulged in intemperate habits, and had the complaint to a severe degree ; whilst the third, with extreme care and attention, escaped from it altogether. The predisposing cause of scrofula is congenital, or consists in an original fault of constitution. The exciting causes are what- ever tend to produce, or rather increase, that debility, such as the fever from diseases of a specific kind, as measles, scarlet fever, and small-pox. Scrofulous affections, occurring after srnall-pox, used to be much more frequent before the introduc- tion of vaccination than since; and, if there were no other ad- vantage attending it than this, it ought to be regarded as a boon to society. The reasons why small-pox disposes to the excite- ment of scrofulous inflammation, you must be well acquainted with, without my entering into them at present. With respect to the state of body in scrofulous children, the blood is less firm, the crassamentum loosely formed, and coagu- lating weakly; the quantity of serum abundant; and the solids are feebly formed. When you dissect a scrofulous person, you find extreme attenuation of the muscles, owing to the fibres being delicately fprmed, the cellular tissue thin, the heart weak, not at all having the appearance of the healthy organ ; you find the arteries with loose coats, and, if you were to inject them, that the injection would scarcely reach the extremities; nor is this surprising, since it happens that the vessels often expand, and give way, and also that there is blood at the extremities of the arteries, owing to the great weakness of the vessels; that they have not the power of propelling it into the veins as they usually do. The stomach and intestinal canal are thin and pellucid; the absorbent glands are enlarged; the secretory glands are flaccid, but not diseased; and the nervous system sometimes exhibits marks of irritation having existed in it. This is, as far as we are able to detail, the nature of the disease. We shall now proceed to speak of its treatment. Treatment of Scrofula.—The principles on which the treatment of scrofula should be founded are three: 1st. To make better blood; 2d. To strengthen the solids; 3d. To give vigorous action to the circulation. To one, or all of these principles, every mode of treatment should be referred. The action of the heart and arteries is natu- rally feeble, the serum of the blood preponderates, whilst the fibrous portion is deficient in quantity ; therefore, you must make better blood, strengthen the solids, or give a vigorous