602 SCROFULOUS DISEASES OF JOINTS. prepared so that it may be easily digested. Vegetable food is very improper. A little arrow-root maybe taken and nutritious broths. Animal food will generally best agree with the child, ii it be prepared in the manner by which it may be most easily di- gested. The principle on which you act is, that the child may take the most nutritious food, and why? Because, absorption being to a great degree prevented, it is important that nothing but highly nutritious food should be taken, so that nutriment may be conveyed to the system. Animal food is more nutritious than vegeiable food; therefore you give it in preference to the last. To assist the digestive process, it is desirable to give some wine and water, to stimulate the stomach, to secrete the gastric juice, and to e.vcite the action of the intestines. In exciting ths intestines, you have a two-fold object in view: stimulating thi absorbents, and producing the peristaltic motion of the intestines. The best medicine in this disease, with which I am acquainted, is the oxymuriate of mercury, given in small doses, and in com- bination with the tincture of bark; one grain of the oxymuriate, in two ounces of tincture of bark ; or, should the bowels be costive, in the same quantity of tincture of rhubarb. The hy- drargyrus cum creti and rhubarb, given so as to produce an aperient effect, are good medicines. The oxymuriate of mercury should be given with no other view than to improve the secretion from the liver and intestines, and thus produce one stool a day. The abdomen should be covered with a stimulating plaster, or frequently rubbed with the hand, in order to produce a gentle action in the part, and excite the absorbents. This is the treat- ment of enlarged mesenteric glands. Dropsy is sometimes connected with this disease. Then para- centesis should be performed, when the patient generally re- covers. Now and then a mesenteric gland suppurates, opens at the navel, and frequently communicates with the intestines, and thus an artificial anus is produced. In these cases, where there is an artificial anus, a large proportion recovers. Poultices should be applied over the opening: and when the inflammation is sub- dued, strips of adhesive plaster should be applied, so as to bring the edges of the wound together, but not until you think that all the matter has been discharged from the gland. Diseases of Joints. The diseases of joints vary in their character, according to the stage of the complaint. It generally happens, that after a child of a strumous habit has walked a considerable distance, that it