346 OPERATION OF LITHOTOMY, tient bears it infinitely better than when he has been operated on without it. You should also enquire whether there is any local disease of any organ ; the kidneys sometimes become altered, when there is stone in the bladder. A ma:. came to Guy's hospital having a stone in his bladder. I sounded him, but there was matter on the sound when I withdrew it; 1 said to the gen- tlemen present, that the man would not bear the operation, and on that account postponed it. In three weeks after, this man died, and on examining the body, the two kidneys were found in opposite states ; one was one-third or one-fourth smaller than na- tural, and tlie other was double its original size ; they are both preserved in the museum over the way. The patient would have died, if I had performed the operation on him, from the disease of the kidneys, and then I should have had the discredit of kill- ing him. If the bladder is ulcerated do not perform the opera- tion on any account, for it will not be successful. But especially never submit a patient to the operation for stone, if there be the slightest affection of the chest, the least difficulty of breathing, any signs of asthma, or any irregularity of circulation. No per- son who has any regard for the safety of his patient, or his own reputation as a surgeon, will ever operate for stone, unless the chest be free from all complaint. You hear of one surgeon being exceedingly successful in the operation for stone, and of another less so. The cause of it is this, the one is careful to select his cases : he puts aside all those who have any other affection, and tells them to wait, and only submits those to the operation who are free from any other disease. This is judgment, and it is right; unless the patient is suffering'exceedingly from the stone, you should not operate until he is free from every other complaint. As to the age at which the operation may be performed.-- Some say, when a man advanced in years has a stone, that he is too old to undergo an operation, and the patient himself often says that he is too old ; but this is not the case, and age is not an objection to its being performed. The time of life which is best fitted for this operation is about sixty-one or sixty-two and at this period a great number of cases occur. After the age of twenty the danger of the operation increases, but between sixty and sixty-three more cases recover than at any other period ; at least this is what I have seen. If a patient is loaded with fat, there is always danger from peritoneal inflammation. As to ad- vanced age, Mr Cline sen., has operated on a patient eighty-two