ECTHOPIUM. 326 ntloQ of the tarsi, the cicatrices formed by the healing of lippi- tudinous ulcers which alter the shape of the lids, so that the eye- lashes are turned inwards, irritate tlie conjunctiva, and produce a continual state of irritation of the whole organ. There is a watering of the eye, together with chronic ophthalmia, and in a short time vessels may be seen shooting over the cornea; nebula and ulceration of the cornea supervene, and thus a serious state of irritation of the transparent part of the eye is produced. Where the affection is simple trichiasis, the only means that can be re- lied on, is to pluck away the eye-lashes; some benefit may be derived from applying a piece of adhesive plaister to the lid, which is to be fastened to the cheek, so that the eye-lashes may be kept bent outwards. The best forceps for removing the eye- lashes, is this, (Mr. Green exhibited it to the class) one rather broad at the points. But when the lid itself is inverted you must do more, and, I believe, nothing will be of any use except cut- ting away a piece of skin from the affected lid ; for when this is done, the edges of the wound are brought together by strips of adhesive plaister ; a cicatrix is formed, and the eye-lids are then drawn upwards. The mode of performing the operation is very simple; you must lift a portion of the skin of the affected lid with a pair of forceps that has towards the point transverse branches, and which are grooved as you here see (holding it up) ; with this yon lay a firm hold of the portion of the lid, and all you have to do is, to take a pair of curved scissors, and cut off the projecting portion, as near to the edge of the lid as you can. (The opera- ration was then performed before the class.) We next come to the opposite side of the lids. EernonuM. Ectropium, or eversion of the lids, happens from ulceration on their edges, an altered and vitiated secretion from the follicles of Meibomius, which produces a redness and an altered state of the conjunctiva, and from cicatrices and contractions of the skin of the lids, which tend to evert them. This complaint is very distressing to the patient; the eye has not its natural covering; irritation, ffom extraneous bodies getting into it, is produced, and thus a constant state of chronic ophthalmia is kept up. When the disease is brought on by a thickened stale of the conjunctiva lining the lid, you must remove that portion ; if from a cicatrix, it must be divided ; but it will be proper to state that thissehioin