ON CALCULI IN THE URETER. 382 Theatment of Calculi in the Kidney. But little can be accomplished by the medical man in these affections; when the stone, however, is composed of uric acid, the exhibition of potass or soda, is I believe, attended with con- siderable advantage; not that either of these medicines will dis- solve a stone when once formed, but I am inclined to believe that they prevent the further deposition of uric acid; they most de- cidedly lessen the irritability of the urinary organs—and by co- vering the surface of the stone with a sort of mortar, it becomes much less annoying to the patient, and much less irritating to the part in which it is contained. Beyond these effects I think li- thoiitriptics have no power. , Surgical writers have proposed that stones in the kidney should be removed by the knife. I am not aware, however, that such operations have been performed. Mr. Cline, sen., once informed me that he had a patient under his care, in whose kidney he could distinctly feel a calculus. This person was remarkably thin, owing to which circumstance the stone was discoverable by means of an external examination : an individual so situated, if his con- stitution were in a healthy condition, might successfully under- go the operation, otherwise it would be too much for his system to bear. Nature, as I before observed to you, will often effect a cure by the formation of abscesses—the calculi being permitted to escape through the sinuses which they create. Through these openings, by means of a probe, you may readily feel the calculus ; and to prevent the closure of the sinus by granulations, you should introduce a sponge tent. In order to facilitate the discharge of the stone, you may dilate the sinus by means of a bistoury ; there will be no danger in doing this, for the emulgent artery and vein are situated behind the calculus. Well, this is all that I have to say respecting stone in the kidney, and I shall proceed to the consideration of Calculi in the Ureter When the stone has descended into the ureter, there will be felt great pain at the spine of the ilium, at the anterior superior spinous process, in the course of the psoas muscle, and over the surface of the abdomen ; as the calculus passes along the ureter, at the time it crosses the lumbar plexus, there will be experienced very, very gp'eat uneasiness in the groin, and in the course of the anterior crural nerve down the thigh ; when it goes over the