INFLAMMATION OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. 525 lating, the dose was reduced to seven drops, and ultimately to five; after continuing it for a short time, we had the pleasure of sending this gentleman back to the country very much relieved. This medicine is by far the best remedy for this complaint that 1 am acquainted with. Other medicines, as the carbonates of soda and magnesia, the liquor, potassm, and opium, are occasion- ally given; but, as the latter produces costiveness, it is decidedly improper. I can assure you, with much confidence, that the first medicine I described to you will be found the best. It will afford considerable relief, which is all that you c^n expect, for you must not dream of making a cure. When you are called upon to relieve retention of urine, from enlarged prostate, by the introduction of a catheter, the instru- ment should be fourteen inches in length, and a quarter of an inch in diameter. In consequence of the pressure within, a broad instrument will answer better than a narrow one, for being bulb- ous at the end, it will readily ride over the enlargement. When introducing the catheter, you will meet with no difficulty until you reach the curve, which the enlargement of the gland has produced in the urethra ; the handle of the instrument is to be here slightly raised, for the purpose of insinuating the point through the curved part. Having passed this, you are then to depress the handle completely between the thighs, so as to occa- sion the point of the instrument immediately to rise prependicu- larly above the pubes. Well, then there is no other difficulty of introducing the catheter in this disease more than is experienced under ordinary circumstances. Recollect, after having passed the curved part of the urethra (the situations of which I have al- ready explained to you), you are then to depress the handle as much as you possibly can ; this will cause the point to enter the bladder between the pubes and enlarged lobe. If any gentleman within these walls should ever be under the necessity of puncturing the bladder for enlarged prostate, which I trust in God he will not, it must be done above the pubes ; but it never need be attempted at all, if you can perform your duty. I have known enlarged prostate occasionally occur in very young people ; an instance of this kind happened in the other hospital: a boy was admitted, having symptoms of stone: but, before I say more of this, while I think of it, I want to add a few words on the treatment of diseased prostate. An elastic gum catheter is sometimes introduced into the bladder, and kept there ; in pass-