Oy RACHITIS. 613 commonly called rickets. It first manifests itself in disease of the mesenteric glands; the abdomen is increased in size, the head is considerably enlarged, and out of proportion to the rest of the body, so that the disease is often mistaken for hydroce- phalus. This arises from the softened state of the bones, which are incapable of supporting the action of the arteries of the brain, and the head and forehead are consequently expanded. The chin is expanded, the sides of the jaw are brought together, and the whole of the features are altered, so that, in general, by merely looking at the face of a patient, you may infer from it the state of the spine, and other parts of the body. An alteration takes place in the form of the spine, which has a double curva- ture, above and below, like the italic S. Nature endeavours still to preserve the perpendicular line of the body, by producing a second curvature as soon as one begins, and the equilibrium is maintained, though there is a considerable variation in the form of the spine. The scapula is also considerably projected. A parent will come to you and say, “ I am very uneasy about my child’s shoulder, it is growing out.” You will judge from thfl alteration in the shoulder, that there is some alteration in the form of the spine and ribs. Pressure on the shoulder, therefore, with a view of remedying this defect, is a most absurd and un- scientific practice; it may give pain, but can do no possible good. The spine, in these cases, has given way in two directions, and the ribs on one side are more curved than on the other. This incurvation of the ribs occasions the alteration in the form of the scapula. The anterior part of the chest is extremely projected; the sternum is sometimes sunk between the cartilages of the ribs, and sometimes advances so as to form what is called a chicken breast. The os humeri, the radius and ulna, the femur, and the tibia, all undergo an additional curvature. Absorption of some of the bones at length takes place, and nothing but the cartilage remains. When yon feel the os humeri of a chi.d under this disease, it seems .as if it had had a fall, and the bone had been fractured; the ossific matter is absorbed, and nothing but cartilage remains. The same appearance is frequently observed in the femur at>d knee-joints of children in the low alleys of this town, who are deprived of healthy or proper nourishment, and get scarcely any thing, perhaps, but a little gin, which their mothers give them by way of comfort, though they give them nothing to eat. These are tiie miserable changes to which rickety patients aresunject. J because ol all this is, a great deficiency in