673 ON COMPOUND FRACTURES. ture of the radius, with great comminution of the bone, was pro- duced. The ulna was first replaced, but immediately resumed its dislocated position on the back of the wrist, although it did not again protrude through the skin. The hand and fore-arm were placed in a poultice, and were ordered to befomented twice in the day. A copious suppuration ensued, attended with violent constitutional irritation ; and Mr. Chandler, in order to save the patient’s life, after a lapse of several weeks, amputated the limb.l In a similar case it would be proper, when torn pieces of bone can be felt at the extremities of the radius, that the wound should be enlarged for their removal ; and instead of fomentations and poultices being used, that the wrist should be surrounded by lint dipped in the blood, and a roller loosely applied. The arm should be supported on a splint, so as to keep it perfectly free from motion; evaporating lotions should be applied; and? the limb should not be disturbed unless the patient has symptoms of a suppurative process, when a small opening should be made in the bandage, to allow of the escape of pus, but still the bandages should be suffered to remain. The patient should be bled from the arm, if the inflammation and constitutional irritation be con- siderable, and leeches should be occaaionally applied under these circumstances. The bowels should be kept gently open, but all active purging avoided. If the suppurative process have extended up the tendons of the fore-arm, it will be necessary to amputate. The operation should not be performed where the tendons are loose in the arm, but further up, in the muscular part of it; you would otherwise have a sloughy irritable stump. -Another untoward circumstance is high degree of injlammatinn attacking the neighbouring parts. If the patient’s general health oe good, the inflammation will not extend beyond a few inches •round the accident; but if the patient be irritable, and the in- jpry, for example, be in the leg, the inflammation will extend along the course of the absorbents to the groin, and if there be effusion at the same time accompanying this, it must be con- sidered as an indication of great danger. Such appearances must not be treated very actively by depletion; apply leeches, fomen- tations also, and poultices to the neighbourhood of the wound. Lotions also of the liquor amonim acetatis, with rectified spirits of wine, should be applied to the inflammation on the limb, whilst the f>oultice is applied to the neighbourhood of the wound. At the same time opium should be given to allay tliu constitutional Kf tabiiity, and a gentle diaphoresis promoted on the skin, by 2 \