DISLOCATIONS OF THE CLAVICLE. 627 cannot raise his hand to his head. This question is generally asked, “ Can you raise your hand to your he.id?” The answer invariably is, that he cannot; and you immediately make up your mind that it is a dislocation. The patient can awing his arm a little forwards and backwards as it hangs by his side. 1 he central axis of the limb may also be observed to,run into the axilla. There is usually a numbness in the fingers, from the pressure of the head of the bone on the axillary plexus. AVell, then, the principal marks of the accident will be, the falling of the shoulder, the presence of the head of the bone in the axilla, and the loss of the natural motions of the joint. But in a short time these appearances are less decisive, from the etravasation and tension which follow. The common causes of a dislocation of the humerus into the axilla, are—falls upon the hand while the arm is much raised; or by a fall upon the elbow when the arm is raised from the side, by which the head of the bone is thrown downwards. But the most frequent cause of this accident is a fall directly on the shoulder on some projecting body, by which the head of the bone is suddenly driven downwards. Dislocations are very apt to recur from very slight causes. If the muscular powei be considerable, or if the accident has occurred a few days, the reduction is usually accomplished in the following way ; place the patient in a chair, let the scapula be well secured by a bandage passed over it, with a slit in it to receive the arm, and buckled over the acromion; this keeps the bandage close up in the axilla, and more completely fixes the scapula; or it may be done by a towel folded round the scapula, and tied close above the acromion. Pass a wetted roller round the arm, just above the elbow, to protect the skin, and upon this a strong worsted tape is to be fastened with what the sailors call the clove-hitch; the arm should be raised at right angles with the body, or a little above it, to relax the deltoid and super-spinatus. Two persons should now make extension from the bandage fastened to the arm, and two from the scapular bandage, with a steady and equal force. After the extension has been made a few minutes, the surgeon should place his knee in the axilla, resting his foot on the chair on which the patient sits, and raise his knee by extending his foot; and placing his hand at the same time on the acromion, he pushes it downwards, when the head of the bone usually slips into its place. While the ex ension is making, a gentle rotatory m ition will diminish the counteracting power of the muscles, and assist the reduction; the fore-arm should be bent lo nearly right