ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 396 both those cases the glands in the axilla had partaken of the dis- eased action, and the disease appeared there with as much violence as ever, after it had been removed from the breast. The medicines which are used for the carcinoma in the female may also be employed here. Tumours occasionally exist around the areola of children, from seven to twelve years of age. I do not know whether they have been described or named by authors, but I have al- called them the Areola Tumour-, they generally appear between the age of seven and nine ; but I have seen them in children as far advanced as twelve years of age. Upon examining the breast, you will find a swelling as large as a half-crown, just round (he areola ; flattened towards the outer edge, but convex in the centre, that is, the nipple, which the swelling closely sur- rounds. Boys as well as girls are subject to this disease; but I never saw either afflicted with it after the age of puberty, nor anterior to the age of seven. 'I’he mode to adopt for their cure is to apply the cmplasfc. ammon. c. hydrarg., having a hole in its centre, for the recep- tion of the nipple; this plaister will generally succeed in eflFect- ing a cure in the space of six months; it should be occasionally changed or renewed—say about every eight or ten days. At the same time that you are using the plaister, you should give to the patient the eighth or sixteenth of a grain of the oxymur. hydrag. ill 3i. of tinct. cinchon bis. die. Or if the bowels should be disordered, you may substitute for the tinct. cinchon. 3i. of tinct. rhei. The plaister constantly used, and these medicines occa- sionally taken, you will generally find, in the course of six months, that the complaint has been subdued. 1 have known it cured as early as the third month from the commencement of this treatment. Of the Lacteal Tumour. Women, shortly after their confinement, are frequently an- noyed by these tumours. A female will come to you with an immense swelling on the breast, and, upon examining it with your hand, you readily perceive a sense of fluctuation; this leads you to believe that it is chronic abscess: but you will find no sign of inflammation, nor any inconvenience from pain. With a lancet you open the sac, and there will be discharged a consider- able quantity of milk } the sac is filled by it only j and if the