502 ON VIRULENT GONORRUCF.A. " twenty-eight linTes.” If you ask whether he U salivated, he will tell you that he spiu three pmU a-day; but ask him whe- ther his gonorrhoea is cured, and he will reply “ No, I have a clap still upon me.” His disease is not in the slightest de- gree affected by the mercurial course to which he has been so unpardonably subjected, and it will soon after be necessary to cure nim by injections or other means. When so infamous a practice prevails, I cannot satisfy my own feelings by resorting to milk-and-water language: every man of common feeling and honesty is bound to speak out on such an occasion. It is wholly unnecessary to give mercury in any form for this disea.se. When a patient applies to you for a first clap, it seldom happens that he can be cured by the same means which may be successfully em- ployed in subsequent claps. The first clap is generally much more difficult to cure than those which subsequently occur. I shall proceed to state to you the result of the experience which I have had in the cure of this disease, for thirty-three or thirty- four years. If I have not yet learnt the best mode of treating it, I have no hope that I can know any thing more on the subject. I will state to you the plan which I have found to answer better than any other: wilhout meaning, however, to say, that this plan is better than those which may be adopted by others. When the patient applies to you for his first clap, there will be generally a great deal of inflammation, and I advise you to give the sul- phate of magnesia with the infusion of senna. An ounce of the sulphate of magnesia may be mixed with six ounces of the in- fusion of senna, and three table-spoonfuls given two or three times a-day, so as to purge the patient very actively. You may afterwards give the submurias hydrargyri with extract of colo- cynth, but merely as a purge; for if it were to act as a mer- curial, 1 would not give it at all. There is no necessity for giving calomel, unless you wish it to act on the liver, as well as on the intestinal canal. Having purged the patient very freely, you will direct him to take diluting drinks, of which he can hardly take too much. 'J’wo drachms of the carbonate of potash, or the subcarbonate of soda, should be taken in a quart of some diluting drink in the course of a day : capiliaire, or tea, will an- swer this purpose very well ; some advise the gum of acacia, but whether it does any good or not, I do not know. I have found the liquor, calcis a very excellent diluent in this disease. Soda