ox HEUXIA. 255 to use the taxis. In fact, when I arrived, I found the patient’s abdomen exceedingly tense, and he roared out so violently, and resisted me. so much when 1 attempted to employ the taxis, that I found it impossible to persevere. Under these circumstances, I desired some ice to be applied, with a view of diminishing the sen- sibility af the part and facilitating the employment ef the taxis, I called again in the evening, but was told that it was not neces- sary to go up stairs, for the hernia had returned of itself. In cases, therefore, where the patient suffers excruciating pain, do not employ the taxis immediately, but advise the application of ice, which will reduce the irritability of the part, and perhaps render its employment unnecessary. Mr. Newington had a patient with strangulated hernia, which returned by the application of cold water. ' If you are called to a case of strangulated hernia, and find that the taxis does not succeed in reducing it, I advise you di- rectly to take away blood. The quantity of blood must be pro- portioned to the age of the patient; if he be young and athletic, a considerable quantity should be taken away ; if he be extremely old, you should hesitate in taking away much blood ; but if he be of the middle age, and not infirm, you should bleed freely. This course is to be taken not merely with a view of reducing the her- nia, but to prevent peritoneal inflammation after the operation, if the operation should be necessary. It is a most mistaken view of the nature of this disease to sup- pose that the patient is safe after the hernia is returned by the operation ; on the contrary, he is in the greatest danger after the operation unless he has been freely bled before it.—If you should be asked to wbat extent you would bleed in strangulated her- nia, your answer should be, until it produces faintness, because it is in that state that the hernia is most likely to be returned. If you carry the bleeding short of this state of faintness, you may as well not bleed at all. If, therefore, the patient be strong, and in the middle of life, you should make him stand up before you, and bleed him from a large orifice, until he complains that he shall be unable to stand unless you support him. At this moment the taxis will be most likely to succeed in reducing the hernia: and peritoneal inflammation after the reduction will at the same time be prevented. If a surgeon, therefore, does not take away blood freely under such circumstances, his conduct will be most un- pardonable.