ON HERNIA. 230 LECTURE XXVII. Appearances on Dissection for Hernia. Upon dissecting a person who has died of strangulated hernia, you will find a considerable effusion of lymph in the cellular tissue in the neighbourhood of the hernial sac ; and if gangrene had taken place, the parts will be found emphysematous ; and wherever you press with the finger the impression will remain, that is, that part will pit. When you open the hernial sac, there will immediately escape a considerable quantity of serum ; how- ever, I ought to state that the quantity of this fluid depends upon the nature of the hernia ; the principle is this:—if it be an omental hernia, there will be but little—if it be intestinal hernia, then a considerable portion will be present. The omentum undergoes a considerable change in its colour, being much darker than natural, owing to its vessels being filled by coagulated blood—it will likewise have an offensive smell, and if gangrenous, the smell will be highly putrefactive—its texture' also becomes very much altered, not being so solid as before death, having a crack- ling feel, as if it contained water or air, and easily breaking by the employment of the slightest force. Behind the omentum will be seen the intestine (if both are in the sac), having upon its sur- face a peel of adhesive matter; therefore, before you touch the intestine, you come to a layer of adhesive matter, with the nature of which you must all of you by this time be well acquainted— this adhesive matter glues together such portions of the intestine as happen to be in contact. The intestine will be found of a very dark colour, if it be not gangrenous, for that is not the character of gangrene, and when you are operating for strangulated hernia, if you should find the intestine as dark as red wine, still you would be justified in returning it into the abdomen foi when it is gan- grenous, its appearance is very different, having upon its surface a number of green spots—not green at every part, but green spots interspersed here and there over the whole surface. Persons, therefore, acquainted with the diagnosis of this disease look for small green spots, which readily yield and give way to pressure by the finger. The very dark intestine is not in a gan- grenous state, but in a different condition. In common inflam- mation of an intestine, then, its appearance is florid—but not sr