64 ON ULCERATION. lost, and the crews of those which sucpeeded in getting at last to the Isle of Juan Fernandez suffered great hardships. In doubling Cape Horn, the crew suffered severely from attacks of the scurvy ; and it was remarked by the clergyman, who was an observing man, though he knew nothing of our profession, that the men who had had ulcers before were invariably attacked with ulceration in the same parts, and that if their bones had been formerly fractured they became disunited. This does not surprise us, because we know that scurvy pro- duces the ulcerative process, attacking the gums, causing pro- fuse bleeding, &c. ; that the ulcerative process has a stronger disposition towards parts newly formed, and that in this case, therefore, it appeared in parts where ulcers had formerly healed, and in disunited limbs where callus had previously formed. When the men got fresh vegetables, &c., on shore, they recovered their health ; their bones united, and their sores healed. There cannot be a better example than this for the purpose of showing the readiness with which newly-formed parts ulcerate, as com- pared with the original structures of the body. The parts more remote from the heart ulcerate more readily than those in the vicinity of the heart. This circumstance led me to say, that when the vital action is feeble, and the power oi the circulation diminished, we find a greater disposition to the ulcerative process than otherwise. Thus, for one ulcer in the arm we find twenty in the lower extremities ; and you cannot but have observed, in going round the w-ards, the great number of sore legs, those opprobia of our hospitals. In those parts which are endued with little vital power, ulceration takes place very readily ; while in those to which the quantity of blood sent is very small, ulceration takes place with difficulty. -This is the case writh tendons. Tendinous parts possess very little blood; very few arteries or absorbent vessels are distributed to them. Hence the process of absorption goes on with great difficulty, and tendons will slough to a great extent rather than become absorbed. This circumstance must influence our practice. In abscess under the fascia, an incision should be made as soon as possible through the covering, to liberate the confined matter. So in abscess of the finger, when the consti- tution suffers because the theca will not give way to the process of ulceration, and the nervous system becomes irritated by the pressure of confined matter, an early incision should be made