324 ENTROPIUM. the cellular membrane then takes place. Some persons are more prone to this disease than others; it frequently appears in those who have been subject to disorder of the digestive organs, or in those of a scrofulous habit of body, and young persons. This morbid affection would be of little consequence in itself, but for the state of the system on which it generally depends. The eye- lids adhere to each other in the mornings, which distresses the patient considerably. There may be excoriation of the lids— redness and thickening of the conjunctiva—excoriation of the skin of the face ; lippitudinous ulcers break out; the cilia becomes altered in their growth, and turned inwards on the globe of the eye ; and from these different states a tendency to chronic oph- thalmia is kept up. It is necessary when styes are attended with inflammation and redness, that cold applications, poultices, and fomentations should be applied, as in other inflammations; and when matter is formed, that the abscess should be opened with a lancet. But it more frequently happens that this affection de- pends upon something wrong in the system, on derangement of the digestive organs, or impaired functions in some part of the body j and then these states must be attended to, for they pro- duce irritation, and sometimes ulceration of the edges of the eye- lids. The best local applications that can be made use of, are those of a mild stimulating nature, the mercurial ointments, with a little of which the edges of the lid should be smeared every night at bed time, the parts being previously washed with tepid water. The citrine ointment, (the unguentum hydrargyri nitra- tis) is the one in common use; but it is in its proper state too stimulating for the eyes, therefore it must be diluted with some simple ointment. Both the red and white precipitate mercurial ointments are used, and the zinc ointment also ; in fact, it is not essential what kind is employed, if it be Inildly stimulating. Trichiasis, Another affection of which I shall speak, is that known by the name of trichiasis. It is that state of the eye-lashes, in which they become altered in growth, and turned inwards also on the globe, irritating the conjunctiva on every motion of the eye. Some think that thb complaint is not owing to the effect of the altered growth of the cilia only, but to a turning in of the lids called Entropium. Entropium or inversion of the eye-lids, is produced from ulce