TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. 26 the blood is drawn : for it is the loss of this fluid by the vessels of the brain which is the immediate cause of fainting. To prove this, when you next bleed a man until he faints, place him in the recumbent posture, and let his head be situated a little lower than his body, to facilitate the return of blood to the brain; in ?. very short time after being thus placed he will open his eyes, and all his faculties will resume their former abode. The second mode by which bleeding relieves is by lessening the quantity of blood ; for when there is much fulness of the ves- sels, the momentum will necessarily be great, and consequently the vital fluid will be thrown with greater power, not only to the inflamed, but to every other part of the body. The third mode by which bleeding proves serviceable, is by facilitating the re-establishment of the secreting functions. The indication for bleeding is a hard pulse. In this state of tlie pulse the diameter of the vessel is diminished, yet the action is exceedingly strong, and each pulsation of the artery feels like the vibration of a wire ; whenever, therefore, you find this descrip- tion of pulse, you will be justified in taking away blood. 'The hardest pulse that I ever met with, was in a person who had inflammation of the heart j in inflammation of the lungs and of the brain the pulse is hard, but not to be compared to this. 'The pulse, however, is not always hard when inflammation attacks important parts. The contrary is sometimes the fact j for, when the stomach or intestines is thus affected, the pulse is scarcely dis- coverable. Persons, unacquainted with the nature of this fact, are frightened at seeing a man frequently bled, who has for ex- ample, strangulated hernia, and will often exclaim, “ Pray don’t bleed him any more, see how pale he is, and his pulse is almost gone.” Well then, recollect, that in inflammations of the abdo- minal viscera the pulse is feeble ; but inflammation of the liver, however, is an exception to this rule. Quickness of pulse is not in itself a sufficient proof that bleed- ing is requisite, but when united with hardness, no additional evidence of its necessity can be wanted; therefore, never bleed where there is a quick pulse, unless at the same time it be a hard one. The indication for a repetition of blood-letting is said to be a buffy state of the blood, but your decision must not be governed by this appearance, you must still have a hard pulse. When blood is cupped it is said to be a proof of strength, and that bleeding should be repeated; the following case, however, will