ox DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 379 which scirrhous tubercle is usually formed is from thirty-five to fifty years of age ; more frequently under forty than above it, though I have met with a great number of cases from forty-four to forty-five years of age ; however, it is more frequently found under forty than above it. It is not a disease of young persons ; it is rarely seen between twenty and thirty. The youngest per son that I ever saw with this disease was twenty seven years old ; I have seen another case in a person of twenty-nine ; but except- ing these two cases, I have never met with it under thirty. I know that there are many tumours met with at an early age, which are called scirrhous tumous, but they are not so, gentle- men ; and the medical man who asserts that they are is deceived as to their nature, for the tumours found at this age are quite of a difl'erent character from scirrhous tumours. 'The disease, then, called scirrhous tubercle is found from thirty to fifty years of age ; under thirty rarely, for I have only met with two cases below thirty in the course of a life which has been favoured with considerable opportunities of watching this disease. As to the most advanced age at w'hich I have seen this complaint, it is at eighty-six. A lady, eighty-six years of age, came to me with a scirrhous tubercle of the breast. When she called, she asked, “ Should it be remov- ed?”—1 said, “No, keep it; it will not shorten your life, for this disease is slow in its progress, when occurring in advanced age.” She probably lived as long with it, as if it had been re- moved ; the breast never ulcerated, she had no pain in it, and the patient died of other complaints. However, I removed a scirrhous breast from a lady, who was seventy-three years of agri. It had begun to ulcerate, and the patient was anxious to have it done. Her state was unpleasant to herself, and the smell from the part offensive to those around her; and on these accounts she was anxious to have an operation performed. It was at her own earnest solicitation, and not at my suggestion, that it was done. The disease did not return, and the patient did very well. 1 bu see, then, gentlemen, that there is no period, however advanced, at which scirrhous tubercle of the breast does not occur; but it is not to be met with in the young. The progress of this complaint is in some persons extremely slow. In general, however, it destroys life in about four years from the commencement. It is from two to three years in its growth and from a year and a half to two years in destroying life after it has arrived at its acme. When suppuration and ulceratidn have