ON CHANCRE. 549 has also been ascertained, that chancres for which no mercury has been taken, are not always followed by secondary symptoms. With the exception that lesser quantities of mercury are given, I should say that, within the last twenty-five years, the treatment of the venereal disease has gone back rather than improved. Se- condary symptoms now are more frequently met with than for- merly, owing to the neglect of a mercurial treatment on the first appearance of the complaint. A person hardly knows now when he is cured : a half practice has been substituted fo^ one that was perfectly efficient: and the result is that, at present, a person is scarcely ever properly cured. Day after day we see persons with pains in their limbs, sores on their body, and aft'ections of the throat, and do not know whether they are syphilitic or not. You ask the patient if he has had chancres; he says, “No." " Have you had no sore or excoriation 1 ” you then inquire ; when he will often tell you " Yes, I had several excoriations and thus, you do not know whether the eruption is .syphilitic or not; but more of this when speaking of the use and abuse ot mercury. The local application I make use of, is the liquor calcis with calomel, and I will tell you why I always make use of local means. The local application lessens the irritation of the sore, and prevents its attacking the neighbouring parts. If any of you had chancre, in addition to the local means, you would, if the sore healed, continue taking medicine : do not think, be • cause the sore is healed, that you would stop the mercury : no, it must be continued during the time I have mentioned before, to prevent the recurrence of secondary symptoms ; it will be proper to heal the sore as quickly as you can, but you must protect the constitution against the effects of the venereal virus, by mercu- I rial treatment: this is the best possible treatment, and which you will pursue if you deal honestly with your patient. If you wish I to see the effect of any new project, or try any experiment, this ■ is all well, but you should try them on yourselves. If patients, I however, come to you for advice, they place themselves under •your care, and confide in your skill ; therefore, it is the duty of (every surgeon to adopt the most certain and effectual means for their relief. With respect to local applications, I think the sul- :phate of copper too irritating ; submuriatc of mercury sprinkled on the sore is sometimes beneficial, but it is generally loo irri- tating also. The unguentum hydrargyri nitrico-oxydo, I have •seen of considerable use after a time; but it should not be an-