0\ UIXEUS. R7 tilages of the ribs unite by bone, and not by cartilage. (Sir Ast- ley eshibited to the class a specimen of cartilage of the human rib which had been divided, and in which an ossific union had ta- ken place.) This, however, will depend, in some measure, on the age of the person j for in very young subjects cartilaginous union will be produced, but in subjects more advanced in years, the cartilages of the ribs invariably unite by bone. LECTURE XII. On Ulcers. In treating of this subject, I shall describe the appearance of ulcers in what may be termed their healthy state, I shall then de- tail the several circumstances which render their cure difficult, and proceed to point out to you the remedies which are found to be the most efficacious in practice. An ulcer may be defined to be a granulating surface secreting matter. When an ulcer is in a perfectly healthy state, the appearances which it exhibits are as follows :—The granulations are florid ; their blood-vessels pos- sess a considerable quantity of arterial blood and the freedom of circulation produces this florid appearance. The granulations are equal on the surface of the sore, rising a little above the edges ; for it is necessary, in order that a sore should heal kindly, that the surface of the ulcer should be a little more elevated than the surrounding skin. The surface of the sore secretes matter which has a milky appearance, or rather the appearance of cream. The edge is whitish in colour and adapts itself to the surface. In this manner the granulations springing from the surrounding skin are very nioely adapted to the circumference of the sore, so that the granulation of the edge unite with those on the surface. When, therefore, you see the surface of an ulcer red, the granulations efjual, the surface rising a little above the edge, the discharge of matter healthy, and the edge of the sore nicely adapted to the sur- face, you will say this ulcer is in a healthy state. In order to produce this state of the sore, the best practice which yoii can generally pursue is to apply poultices and plaisters. When you open an abscess, or when a wound is produced which cannot be healed by the adhesive process, the best appli- cation is a poultice, for the purpose of exciting the growth of gra- nulations, 'rhb poultice must not be too warm j it should ba