538 ON SYMPATHETIC BUBO AND GLEET. motion, a drop or two of mucus, or of a ropy fluid, proceed* from I be vesiculae seminales, and is quite a different case from that called gleet; both are different as to their seat and origin ; one may say with certainty, from the nature of the discharge, when it proceeds from the vesiculse seminales. I was attend- ing a gentleman once, for obstinate stricture, on whom I fre- quently used the caustic bougies ; one day I called on him, and he said to me, “ Well, sir, you have produced a considerable discharge from the urethra, and I have communicated it to my wife j she has considerable pain on making water, and, whilst voiding her urine, she is obliged, on account of the violence of the pain, to grasp the bed-post. I wish you would speak to her.” I saw her ; she had a yellow discharge, and great pain on making water; but a few doses of aperient medicine soon carried it off.— Now, gentlemen, as to the treatment of gleet, I would observe this—that the medical treatment consists in the exhibition of sweet spirits of nitre, and the balsam of copaiba; from two to three drachms of the former, a drachm of the latter, in four ounces of camphor mixture, combined with an ounce of mucilage, will form the best mixture I know of; a large spoonful must be taken two or three times a day. R. Spirit. .lEther. Nitric. 3ij. Balsam. Copaib. 5j. ' Mistur. Camph. Jiv Mucil. G. Acac. Fiat mistura cujus capiat cochleare magnum bis vel ter die. If this should not succeed, you must give cantharides, together with the Ohio turpentine, made into a pill. R. Lytt. Pulv. gr. Terebinth. Chi. gr.v. Fiat pilula ter die sumenda. When the other fails, this is the medicine medical men usually employ. The local treatment consists of the use of bougies and injections : no treatment is so successful as this; every other is inferior to it. A bougie should be passed every other day, ac- cording to the irritability of the patient, making use of injections at the same time : there will be no danger of stricture from this, because the bougies will prevent it: this is the plan of treat- ment you will adopt. Some persons apply to the urethra the un- guentum hydrargyri nitratis ; also the unguent, hydrarg. nitric, pxy., which should be diluted; a scruple to an ounce may be