ON VIRULLNT GQNOlUaiCEA. 512 with which I am acquainted; when it is not at hand, 1 use a common silver catheter in-stead. As to cat-gut bougies, they are now very rarely employed, except when the stricture is particularly small, and then they are sometimes required. There is another kind of bougie, made of horse-skin, after it has been submitted to the action of lime, to prepare it for tanning. Fashion, I am sorry to say, in surgery, as well as in medicine, frequently leads practitioners from the path of prudence. One remedy after the other is blazoned forth to the world, to delude merely for a day, and then to sink with its predecessors into " the tomb of all the Capulets.” Surgery, however, is much less liable to these deceptions than the medical branch of our profession, because surgery is a science requiring more solid information, and in which impositions are much more easy of detection. It often occurs that the exaggerated statements which accompany new remedies, lead surgeons to expect more advantages from their employment than the experience of the discoverer, if he had spoken truly, would have led them to anticipate. Now, in con- sequence of this, medicines often sink below that level where their intrinsic value would justly entitle them to remain. I make these remarks in reference to the use of caustic for the cure of stricture, originally adopted by Mr. Hunter, afterwards improved upon by Sir Everard Home, and, subsequently, the mode of treat- ment was altered by another gentleman, now deceased: and, since his time, it has been falling into disrepute. The use of caustic has certainly been very much abused, and, in many in- stances, has produced the very worst consequences, and I would say that it never ought to be employed, except where the stricture is accompanied with fistula in perinaeo, and that fistula behind the stricture; then there can be no apprehension of the caustic occasioning retention of urine, which it has done in many in- stances, when injudiciously employed. Claution is necessary in the use of nitrate of silver, to prevent its getting in conUct with any other parts than where its presence is absolutely necessary; and let me advise you not to use the caustic alkali as a substitute for lunar caustic; it is much too soluble, and, by running over an extended surface, is calculated to produce a great degree of in- flammation. I have known eight applications of the lunar caus- tic completely succeed in curing stricture, when every other means