ON COMPOUND FRACTURES. 670 part of the arm, was extending; but as this arose onlvfrom local injury, the patient did perfectly well. I shall not have time to-day to go through the difficulties which yet remain to be described in the treatment of these accidents, and I shall therefore leave them until we next meet. LECTURE LXXV. Gentlemen, I shall now take the opportunity of concluding the subject of compound fractures; and shall therefore next speak of these accidents when extending into the joinfs. If a compound fracture should extend into the ankle-joint, that, of itself, would form no reason why amputation should be per- formed ; but you should be guided principally by the nature of the injury, by the age, and also by the constitution of the patient. If the compound fracture extending into this Joint be oblique, it will generally do well, provided care be taken to procure adhesion of the wound, which is best effected by app'ying lint dipped in blood to the lacerated integuments, and allowing it to remain there until it separates spontaneously. The many-tailed bandage should be applied, and kept wet with a spirituous lotion, com- posed of sps. vini, I oz. aqua;, 5oz. A splint should be applied on each side, padded with cushions, so as to preserve the great toe in a line with the patella, as I before mentioned to you, which is a point you must attend to on these occasions. Place the leg on its side, in the semiflexed position, so as to relax the muscles, and render the patient’s position as easy as possible. The position, however, will require to be varied, according to the situation of the wound. But if the bone be comminuted, as well as broken into the joint, and if there be bleeding from any large vessel, it will be proper to amputate immediately more especially if the patient be obliged to work hard for his support, for after recovery from comminution, the limb will bear but a slight degre of exertion. But still, if the constitution be good, and the person be about the middle age, it is right to take away the small pieces of bone, heal the wound by adhesion, and produce anchylosis. In one case supjmration even followed, and the patient did perfectly well. If a compound fracture extend into the knee-joint, and the opening be large, it will be necessary to amputate, as the consti