OPERATION* OF LITHOTOMY 357 into which surgeons have fallen, I execute a very unpleasant task—a task much more disagreeable now, from the publicity which my lectures receive, than at any formei' period ; but, as your pilot, it is my imperative obligation to warn you against those shoals and rocks which have foundered but too many of your predecessors. He who publishes the lectures, however, cannot be too particular in his discretion with regard to publish- ing names, when those names are blended, as they sometimes are, with unfortunate cases. I shall now proceed to show you the lateral operation, as per- formed with the gorget and knife, and will also show you the high operation above the pubes, as lately performed at St. George’s Hospital. (A subject was now brought forward, and the legs having been placed in the proper position, the learned lecturer said,) Now then for the lateral mode; I will per.‘'onii it first with the knife, and then with the gorget. (The lecturer now went through both operations according to the detail given in the course of this lecture ; he demonstrated most carefully each part to the students as he proceeded, and thus addressed them.) The staff now resting on the stone, I begin by making an incision in the left side of the perinajum, commencing at the sy .i.physis pubis, and carrying it downwards and outwards to midway between the anus and tuberosity of the ischium, the teiinination of the inci- sion being, as you observe, opposite to the centre of the anus; this cut, having passed throjgh the skin and fat, has exposed the accelerator urinie. I now divide that muscle between the hi,lb of the penis and left crus; and then with my fingers press the bulb under the right ramus of the ischium, to prevent its be- ing wounded. I now divide the transversus periniei, and feel with the left index finger for the groove of the staff. I now cut into the groove at the membranous part of the urethra, and bringing dov/n the handle of the staff, I push the knife forward into the bladder, and then cut through the prostate gland, and the neck of the urinary organ downwards and outwards, corres- ponding to the external wound. I again pass my finger into the wound, and feel for the groove of the staff; this instrument must now be withdrawn. I keep my finger in the bladder, and pass in the forceps with their flat side next to it; having with the forceps carefully felt for, and satisfied myself of the situation of the cal- culus, I grasp it within the blades, and thus withdraw it. All the firitpart of the operation with the gorget is the same as that with