OW PUUCLRKT OPHTHALMIA 2S2 injected. It has the appearance of a villous membrane highly in- jected with red blood, and certainly very nearly resembles the in- ternal surface of the foetal stomach when highly injected. If you examine it with a glass, you will see drops of pus oozing on the sur- face, and collecting there in considerable rjuantities. The acute stage of purulent ophthalmia is of a very short duration ; it has a tendency to pass rapidly into the atonic stage,in which there i* action without power, and congestion of the vessels of the part. At this time the violence of the acute symptoms is mitigated, but the patient labours under considerable prostration of strength. ■ Purulent ophthalmia has a great tendency also to terminate in sloughing. The cause of this tendency it is perhaps not very easy completely to explain ; Mr. Travers thinks that it is produced by a constriction of the small vessels distributed to the part of the cornea in the same way as sloughing of the glans is produced in paraphy- mosis by the cutting off of such vessels. Sometimes the slough- ing commences in a small portion, and gradually lamella after la- mella is destroyed, until the aperture assumes a funnel-like shape ; at other times a slough forms in a considerable portion of the cor- nea at once, and opens into the anterior chamber. 'I'he commence- ment of the sloughing process may be recognized by a haziness of the cornea, which soon amounts to a considerable opacity. When you observe a dark appearance beyond the ulcerating parts run- ning from the deposit of lymph so as to form a surface from which the chasm is to be filled up, you may regard this as a favourable sign tliat the sloughing has here found its limit. The case is not to be regarded as hopeless when slougliingof the cornea has com- menced, for ifthe opening be only small, the common effect is that the aqueous humour will escape ; the iris will become prolapsed into the aperture of the cornea, but the patient may afterwards re- cover, and though the shape of the pupil will be altered, he may still retain a considerable degree of vision. When the opening is large, the iris will not only be prolapsed, but protnided, not only the aqueous, but the crystalline, and the vitreous humoui’s will escape and the sight of the patient will be irretrievably lost. The causes ot purulent ophthalmia are various, it is often occasioned by the vio- lentdegree of inflammation produced by some highly irritating sub- stance, such as caustic lime. Itoccuis occasionally in new-born children ; in this case it is doubtful whether it arises from the first exposure of the eye to the light, or, as is commonly supposed, from the application of the vaginal secretions to the child's eyes on