ON SOI.UTION OF THE C/\TAUACT. 315 feel any considerable pain or Irritation ; for in that case it would be advisable to ascertain the cause by examining the eye. The pa- tient should be kept in bed in tbe recumbent posture for five days, and not even be suffered to rise for the evacuation of his freces ; a bed-pan should be used for that purpose. At the end of that time he may get up to have his bed made. The best way of pre- venting irritation is carefully to avoid making any undue pressure on the globe of the eye. Great care must be taken in adjusting the bandage not to depress the lower lid, by which means the sec- tion of the cornea may be brought over, and the adaptation of the cut edges prevented. Loose eye-lashes are sometimes a source of irritation, and it will be right to examine whether there are any such before the operation; if there should be^any tendency to inversion of the lid, you may prevent the lid from rubbing against the surface of the globe by means of a bit of adhesive plaisler fastened to the cheek. I have already stated that I do not ad- vise you to operate if one eye is sound ; nor do I think it right, if there should be a cataract in each eye, to operate on both at once, unless the patient should particularly desire it. Of IHE OpEHATlON FOR PnOCUniNC SoLUllON OF THE CatARACT. The third operation is that for procuring solution of the cata- ract, which, as it is particularly adapted to the cataracts of child- ren, leads me to make some observations in this place on con- genital cataract. Children are not unfrequently either born with cataract, or with a disposition to cataract, which speedily makes its appearance. Indeed it is not common to find an absolute opacity of the lens, or of the capsule containing it, at the birth of the child ; the cataract usually makes its appearance within a few months, or at least within the first few years from the birth of the child. In some instances there seems to be an hereditary predisposition to the disease, several children in the same family being affected with it. The nature of the cataract may be firm, soft, or fluid ; and it may be lenticular or capsular, as in the adult. By far the most common form, however, according to Dr Saun- ders, who has given particular attention to cataract in children, is the capsular, in general, he found the lens itself more or less absorbed, the anterior and posterior layers of the capsule being opaf|ue and adhering. The appearance of the cataract is some- what different from that in the adult; there is an opaque nucleus either at the centre or some part of the circumference, and th* jest has an unequal opacity, or streaked reticulated appearance.