ON IMPOTENCE. 680 in the after part of the day. But, if otherwise, advise them by no means to marry. Another cause which might produce the calamity we are now considering, an excessive irritaUliiy of the vesicuUe seminaks, which produces a premature expulsion of the seminal fluid, and this is almost as bad as the former cause. Sometimes it is the result of debauchery, but most frequently it occurs in irritable and delicate young men; in such cases we have to support the constitution by a generous diet and bark, giving a't the same time opium to allay the irritability. In addition to which let the person stand over a large pan of cold water, and dash it over the genitals two or three times in the day. Turpentine and rhubarb are sometimes given, but 1 am not sure that they do any good. Another cause of impotence is, the frequency of nocturnal emissions, and this is most commonly the case with young people. It is frequently the effect of bad habits at school, and it occasions a great degree of anxiety. We must try to lessen this, by repre- senting to the party, that it is an occurrence which frequently happens to persons in a state of health every nine days or a forU night; although in the patient’s case it may happen two or three times during the night. The treatment of this species will be very much as the preceding. Sometimes it arises from a wasting of the testicle, or from an abscess of this gland producing absorption of its structure. The removal of the testicle does n'ot destroy, neither does it seriously impair the generative power. The removal of both, however, emasculates; there is an opinion to the contrary, but it is an erroneous one; this loss of power does not happen at once, the secretion of the semen continues for a short time, and the incli- nation and the power remain ; but gradually the desire, and afterwards the power, is extinguished. Impotence sometimes arises from the testicles not having ilescended. Mr. Hunter has said, that the testicles, when con- iined in the abdomen, do not exercise their functions. This is tlie case when the testicle is pressed upon a congenital hernia, when in the inguinal canal. But in the case of an apprentice of mine, who shot himself because his testicles had not descended, the secretory ducts were found full of semen. Impotence some- times arises from the state of mind, generally from too great an impetuosity and eagerness to cohabit. A gentleman, for ex- ample, is recently married, and if not able to perform his wishes —in two or three days ho is very full of anxiety, and the inibe-