ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 123 continuance, and, to the astonishment of all, he rapidly got well. Not six weeks after this, there was another man similarly cir- cumstanced, brought into the same ward ; and having, from the result of the above case, formed a high opinion of gin, (a luvgh ), I directed the sister to give it here also j and really this patient recovered as speedily as the former. LECTURE XVI. On Injuries of the Head. ' Before I proceed to mention these, I will give you a brief ac- count of the nervous system ; a correct knowledge of which, how- ever, can only be acquired by assiduity in the dissecting room. The nervous system is composed of the follow'ing parts, viz., brain, (which is divided into cerebrum, cerebellum, and medulla oblongata), medulla spinalis, and tw'o sets of nerves—one set issuing from the brain, and the other from the medulla spinalis. Besides these, there is also the grand sympathetic nerve, which may be said to form a system in itself. The nerves are freely distributed to every part of the human frame, and are the means by which all voluntary and involuntary mo- rions are maintained. It is impossible that a mere description of the nervous system in this place, however minute it might be, could make you sufficiently acquainted with its anatomy; for this can only be obtained by the most careful and attentive exami- nation of the dead body. It is necessary, however, for you, at this moment to bear in mind, that an immediate communication exists between the stomach and brain, by means of the eighth pair of nerves, or par vagum ; for unless you do this it is probable that an important symptom, which I shall presently mention, attendant on injuries of the brain, will be but imperfectly under- stood. There is also another circumstance connected with the brain, to which I wish particularly to direct your attention, viz., its being the vehicle of the mind ; or, rather, I might say, the medium through which the mind is communicated. The influ- ence of the brain on the mind, and vice versa, will be amply de- monstrated to you as I proceed. Now, when the brain receives an injury, the symptoms stated to be the result of that injury are, general loss of sense and voli- tion, if the injury be considerable j but if not so severe, some