ovarian or encysted dropsy. 414 consultation on the case of a lady who had for some time been afflicted with ovarian dropsy, and who had taken such quantities of mercury as to occasion a sloughing of the gums, the insides of the cheeks ; and to excite so great a degree of adhesive inflam- mation, as caused her lower jaw to become fixed, and she was under the necessity of sucking her nutriment between the teeth ; this proved what power mercury had over the disease. At this consultation 1 mentioned to Br. Bailie my astonishment, that after so many cases of a similar description as the one we were then seeing, that practitioners should persist in asserting that mercury would produce an absorption of the water of ovarian dropsy. I asked Dr. Bailie if he had ever seen any benefit result from the employment of medicine in this complaint; and with that candour which is the strongest proof of an honourable mind, he answered, “ Not in my life-time.” I do not wish, gentlemen, to deter you from the trial of me- dicine ; but 1 am fully satisfied, after you have done so, you will agree with me that it does not possess the least power of oc- casioning a diminution of the water of encysted dropsy, and the reason of its being thus powerless is the deficiency of absorbents attached to the cyst; if you were to see a cyst injected for the purpose of exhibiting the absorbents, you would at once see the insuperable difficulty which is opposed to the successful medical treatment of this complaint. Now, if the C3'st should burst, and the water escape into the cavity of the abdomen, you know, in some instances, that in three days it has been absorbed, and passed away by urine and by the intestines. Again, in ascites, we know that elaterium has in a very short time, produced a complete ab- sorption of the water, but in ovarian dropsy no such effect has ever been known. Who would have supposed, upon looking at the peritoneum, that it was a better absorbent surface than the ovarian cyst; and who would have imagined that squills, di- gitalis, or elaterium, would have a greater effect upon one than upon the other ; yet the fact is well known, and the cause of it clearly ascertained by anatomical inquiry : on one are found ab sorbents thickly distributed, while on the other they are scarcely perceptible. When a person consults you, having ovarian dropsy, you should direct a belt to be applied tightly round the abdomen, for thepur- pofle of producing such a degree of pressure as will diminish the tendency to enlargement; for if a person leads a sedentary life.