ON THE CURE OF HYDROCELE. 207 Mr. Hunter used to put a little poultice into the part, after the opening had been made into the tunica vaginalis; a surgeon, who was present when Mr. Hunter was performing the operation, had mistaken the plan which he adopted, for having heard of the introduction of a poultice into the wound, he had brought materials for making one, flour, &c., and he began to mix it up in the man’s scrotum ; Mr. Hunter, always ready to catch an idea, sprinkled after this some meal or flour into the wound, so as to prevent instantaneous adhesion, and promote granulations. This operation gives you the means to prevent the return of hy- drocele in many cases, yet it is an operation not perfectly unex- ceptionable ; there are cogent reasons against performing it, but if there be any suspicion of a disease of the testicle, it may be done. In old persons it is not justifiable, and 1 would advise you against doing it in them. Here is a specimen (exliibiting one) where death ensued after the operation I have just described ; a surgeon to one of these hospitals, who has been long since dead, introduced a bit of lint, dipped in oil, into an incision which he had made into the scrotum ; the result was great constitu- tional irritation, and death; therefore there is danger of this ope- ration in old persons, from the irritation which is likely to arise. I shall now proceed to describe to you the operation which has superseded all others, namely, the cure of hydrocele by in- jection. At the time I was attending Mr. Hunter’s lectures, the town was divided in opinion as to the best mode of per- forming the operation for hydrocele. So great was the difference of opinion among the students of the different hospitals, that it was quite ridiculous to observe their warmth on this subject, when there arose a plain, simple, efl'ectual operation, which every body has since adopted. For this we are indebted to Sir James Earle, who, in thinking upon this subject, conceived that injection of the tunica vaginalis was likely to be the best means of producing adhesion, and preventing the further formation of disease. 1 lius he proposed at once a most ingenious, but simple, mode of curing a disease, about which there had been so many disputes. 1 cannot help feeling delight, when I find a brother in the profession rendering himself useful to mankind by an invention of this kind. \V hen we see so much trash issuing frori the press, which is called surgery, it is gratifying to find, in a work like Sir James Earle’s, a simple and effectual plan of curing a disease proposed, and at once adopted by the whole profession.