628 ON IRRITABLE BLADDER. will be more frequent, and exceedingly urgent. Cancer of the uterus is probably a more painful complaint than any other; but, with the exception of that disorder, I am not acquainted with a single one which tortures to such a degree as ulcerated bladder. Irritable bladder of itself is a dreadful disorder, the patient’s life is a burthen to him, he is obliged to keep from society, and lin- ger awey his tedious hours in solitude. This disease, formidable as it is, may be brought on by very slight causes ; even the re- tention of the urine, from motives of delicacy, beyond the period when there was a desire to discharge it, has been known to give birth to this horrible affliction. A young gentleman, with a party of ladies, was about to leave them for the purpose of making water, at the moment when the latter called their carriage; he thought at the moment that it would be indelicate to withdraw, and accordingly, got into the carriage, having at the saime time a strong desire to pass his urine; in the greatest agony he rode twelve miles with his bladder full, at which time, having arrived at the end of their journey, he endeavoured to make water, when to his utter astonishment, he could not void a drop; a surgeon was sent for, who took away the urine by means of a catheter; this afforded relief; but irritable bladder followed, then the sup- purative process, and at last the sufferer died from exhaustion. Upon Dissection of those who die of irritable bladder, the mu- cous membrane has been found in a state of extreme vascularity ; the quantity of blood in the vessels rendering it as florid as red velvet. A respectable surgeon, of Finsbury-square, attended a patient for another disease, of which he died : the individual had, however, for a long period been the subject of irritable bladder, and on examining the body, the disease had been so protracted, that ulcerated spots were seen in different parts, and the mucous membrane had nearly been removed; that part which remained, was uncommonly vascular, and resembled the tunica conjunctiva when under the influence of acute inflammation. I can state to you that irritable bladder is sometimes the result of gonorrhoeal inflammation ; at others is caused by retaining the urine too long. Now then, as to the Teatment.—Your first object should be to keep the bladder in a state of rest; nothing can be done without it. Opium should be given in doses of from one to two gjrains, with a view of allaying the pain and irritation, and with the same object five or six grains should be introduced into the rectum, in the form