DISLOCATIONS OF THE THIGH-BONE. 616 to be limited only by the action of the muscles. The cartilaae on the head of the bone remained, and the shape of the helul itself very little altered; whilst the original acetabulum was nearly half filled by bone, so that it could not have received the head of the thigh-bone, even if it had been attempted to be returned into its former situation. These preparations show the extreme folly of attempting to reduce a dislocation of the thigh alter a certain time has been allowed to elapse; and they also show that it is better to leave such cases to the degree of repara- tion which nature will ultimately produce. I shall now speak of the dislocation hackvoards, or into the ischiatic notch. The situation of this notch, with respect to the acetabulum in the natural position of the pelvis, you sTiould accurately bear in mind, recollecting that it is placed behind the acetabulum, but, at the same time above its level. And it strikes me, that it is the want of attention to this circumstance that has led some surgeons to describe this dislocation as having occurred downwards and backwards ; they have done this from viewing the os innominatum detached from the trunk, and not considered its obliquity when connected with it. When the head of the bone, therefore, is thrown into this space, it is placed backwards and upwards with respect to the acetabulum ; therefore, although I call it the dis- location backwards, you must remember that it is also placed a little upwards. The head of the bone is placed on the pyriformis muscle, be- tween the edge of the upper part of the notch and the sacro-sciatic ligaments. Of all the dislocations of the thigh this is the must difficult to detect, because the length of the limb differs but little, and its position is not so ^uch changed as respects the knee and foot, as in the dislocation upwards. It is also the most difficult to reduce, because the head of the bone is placed behind the ace- tabulum, and requires to be lifted over its edges, as well as to bo drawn towards it. This dislocation may be known by the fol- lowing signs :—The limb is from half an inch to an inch shorter than the other, but usually not more than half an inch, and the toe rests against the ball of the great toe of the opposite foot. The natural prominence formed by the trochanter major is lost, but it still remains nearly at right angles with the dorsum, but it has a slight inclination towards the acetabulum. Except in very thin persons, you cannot feel the head of the bone, and then only by rolling it a little forwards. The knee and foot are turned