211 ON THE CURE OF IIYDROCEUE pening to cast my eye on the man, as I passed through the wards I asked him what was the matter with him, and he said. “ Why, sir, I have got hydrocele ; the disease which you attempted to cure has returned.” Some lime after I did not observe the man in the ward, and upon asking what had become ot him, I was told that he had gone out of the hospital; but as I was walking home over the bridge, the man who told me so accosted me and •aid, “ Sir, I beg your pardon tor telling you a story, but the truth is, that man about whom you asked, has, indeed, gone out of the hospital, but I omitted to say, that he is dead.” The truth is, that one of the dressers, who was a very steady young man, performed the operation of injection, and that an accident hap- pened to him, which unless great care be taken, might have hap- pened to any body. He did not attend sufficiently to keeping the canula within the tunica vaginalis ; the consequence was, that a portion of the fluid went into the cellular tissue. The man expe- rienced excruciating pain, and the dresser immediately withdrew the canula, but very little of the fluid came out. Violent inflam- mation of the scrotum ensued, which went on to gangrene, and the patient died. Dr. Farmer recently met with a similar case, in which sloughing was brought on from the fluid being injected into the cellular tissue, and the result was the destruction of life. Great care, therefore, should be taken to prevent the fluid from escaping by the side of the canula. I shall conclude this lecture with a few observations on hy- drocele of the spannatic cord. This disease may be defined as a collection of water in the spermatic cord, but it is necessary that you should know the situation in which the water is collected. The part at which hydrocele of the spermatic cord takes place is in the tunica vaginalis, between the testicle and the abdominal ring, sometimes extending above the ring, and on that account it is often mistaken for inguinal hernia. By pressing your finger along the parts until you have passed the abdominal ring, you may judge of the nature of the tumour by its blue and semi-transparent ap- pearance, by its being entirely unattended with pain, and by its not running into the abdomen like inguinal hernia. The best mode of treating this disease is to make an incision in the tumour, for injection would, in this situation, be difficult and dangerous; to introduce your finger into the sac, so as to ascertain that there is no communication with the abdomen, and then introduce a small quantity of flour to promote a slight internal irritation. In p 2