272 ON INF1.AMMAT10N OF TU E CONJUNCTIVA. Inflammation of tub Tunica Conjunctiva. And first of simple inflammation of the conjunctiva. This, however, may be divided like other inflammations, into acute and chronic. The symptoms of inflammation of the con- junctiva do not differ from those of inflammation of other parts of the body, excejit in so far as they are modified by the structure of the part, and by the function of the organ. Indeed the change which takes place in inflammation of the conjunctiva may be regarded as a very beautiful instance and illustration of the change which takes place by the process of inflammation in general. I have only to premise, before speaking of the symptoms, that the inflammation may exist in various degrees, from the slightest de- gree of excitement up to inflammation of the most violent and in- tense character. The first symptom is redness of the part: which is very re- markable, because the blood naturally conveyed by the vessels to this part is colourless. Under any existing irritation, the vessels are distinctly observable, and become injected by red blood. When the irritation continues, the vessels become still more appa- rent, and at length all the interlacements and anastomoses of the vessels of the conjunctiva partake of the inflammation, and pre- sent almost one uniform appearance of redness. During this time, more or less pain is experienced: at first, as the vessels become filled, an uneasy sensation is felt; this increases, and at length, upon the admission of light, a sharp lancinating pain is experienced : the patient is under the necessity of keeping the eye closed, and, indeed, has some difficuty in raising it, not only from the pain he suffers, but from the degree of fulness and swelling with which it is accompanied. This pain goes on in- creasing, and at length the patient complains of a burning heat, and a sensation as if some extraneous body were lodged in the conjunctiva : a sort of grating between the conjunctiva and the lid. At this time the admission of the least light or air produces such lancinating pain, that the eye is spasmodically closed. During the first pait of the inflammation there is a more abund- ant secretion of tears, and this generally increases until there is a constant flow of water from under the lids. It sometimes happens that, at the highest stage of excitement, this increased secretion is suddenly diminished, and there is a preternatural dryness of the eyes, producing painful sensations. A considerable degree of swelling takes place; the conjunctiva