ON SUPPURATION. 52 on the skin, easily recognised, by those acquainted with the sub- ject, as a sure indication that pus either has, or is about to be formed. In the adhesive inflammation, the pain is an acute thrilling one ; but here it is more dull, and is likewise pulsatory or throbbing. As this continues, the tumour becomes soft in the middle, but remains hard at the sides the centre Of the'swelling points, as it is termed j and, upon pressing the part at this pe- riod, fluctuation will be evident. The next thing to be pbserved, is an effusion of serum beneath the cuticle, which separates it from the cutis; it becomes gra- dually distended, and then bursts, leaving the cutis exposed. Ulceration sometimes takes place on the surface of the skin, whilst the same process is going on internally, so as to facilitate the discharge of the matter ; generally speaking, however, the ulcerative process is continued entirely from within. These are the common appearances produced by the process of suppurative inflammation. Pus is generally formed in from seven to fourteen days ; but the time required for this process will very much de- pend on the constitution of the patient, and the structure of the part in which the inflammation is seated. Some parts more readily run into the adhesive, others into the suppurative inflammation ; the pleura, pericardium, peritoneum, &c., are subject to the former ; while the urethra, vagina, lach- r3mal duct, trachea, bronchia, nasal passages, &c., are liable to the latter : serous surfaces, therefore, are affected by the adhesive inflammation, and mucous surfaces by the suppurative. The reason why the inflammation affecting the two structures produces different results appears to be this : the vessels of serous surfaces are too small to permit the transmission of the particles which pus contains : but when the inflammation becomes violent or long continued, then the vessels dilate, and purulent matter is formed, even on serous surfaces. Some experiments have been made, which tend to prove that this theory is correct; for it has been found that injections which are sufficiently fine to pass freely into the vessels of mucous surfaces, will not penetrate in the slightest 'degree into the vessels of serous surfaces. I shall pre- sently explain this to you more particularly. In one of the preceding lectures, it was mentioned, that dan- gerous consequences sometimes arose from passing bougies in very irritable habits ; the danger in these cases depends upon the formation of the adhesive inflammation, instead of the suppura-