0.\ SCROFULA. 595 so as to ward off the attaclcs of a disease to which they were pre- disposed. I do not exaggerate when I say, that within the last year I have seen five hundred cases of scrofulous affections; never a day passes over my head without my seeing a case, and frequently three or four. This very day I have seen more; and, if asked how many were hoys among them, I should answer, not one. What is the reason of it? Why, boys wilTtake exercise, and thus are less liable to the complaint; whilst girls are not a lowed to do so, and, if predisposed to the disease, are almost always attacked by it. The third circumstance to he attended to is air; without good air all other means are of no use. Moist and cold weather is the worst. Those who live in marshy climates are subject to the worst form of scrofulous complaints. The state of the atmos- phere you should choose is that in which the air is dry and warm ; a very bleak wind is not desirable. The sea air is gene- rally preferred; and when the children are near the sea side, they should be allowed to play on the beach the greater part of the day. It is a mistake to suppose that the air of tlie coast in the wet and cold seasons is of any advantage to scrofulous chil- dren ; it is only in warm and dry weather that any benefit will be obtained. Extreme cold suppresses the progress of scrofulous tomplaints; hut. in moist weather, the symptoms return. Un- fortunately, I have experienced in my own family the dreadful ravages of this complaint; although no one would say that I was a scrofulous subject (a laugh), I have lost five near relatives of the complaiirt from which I have been spared. Whilst at Brighton once, on a professional visit, I inquired if the number of scrofu- lous children were as great there as in other parts, and I found that it was. In the latter p.irt of the spring and autumn, the sea mast is desirable, but in cold weather it is not. The bleakness tf the air of the sea shore is unfavourable to the constitutions of ihildren tainted with scrofulous complaints. Air, exercise, and nourishment, are the three great points to be kept in view in the treatment of scrofulous affections. But what—you will say— nothing about medicine? Gentlemen, you may hay it down as an axiom, that there is no specific for the cure of scrofula ; and he who says that there is, attempts to gull mankind by the asser- tion of what is not true. Medicines occasionally given with a view to improve the digestive powers, and regulate the secretions, aregoorl; hut attentirjn to the three points I have just mentioned is of primary importance. I will mention to you what are the 2 Q 2