629 DISLOCATIONS OF TK^ CLAVICLE. info the &silla. This plan I should recommend you to adopt in ordinary cases. The second dislocation is forwards, beneath the clavicle, upon the second rib, and having the coracoid process on its outer side. This accident is. more easily ascertained than the dislocation in the axilla. The projection of the acromion appears greater, from the depression of the deltoid being more considerable. There is a prominence to be observed beneath the middle of the clavicle ; and, on rotating the arm, the head of the bone may be felt to roll; the elbow is thrown from the side, and at the same time carried backwards; and the motions of the arm are more confined than in the dislocation into the axilla. The pain attend- ing this accident is slighter than the one just mentioned, because the axillary plexus of nerves is not compressed. These marks place the nature of the accident beyond all doubt. The reduction is to be effected by the same means as in the former dislocation. The same bandage should be used, and the arm bent; but the direction in which the bone is drawn, is the principal circumstance to be attended to. The extension must first be made obliquely downwards and backwards, until thehead of the bone has passed the coracoid process, then it may be raised in a horizontal direction, and, by the pressure of the heel in the axilla, the bone will be easily returned. The third dislocation is backwards, on the dorsum scapul®, just beneath the spine. It is readily distinguished by the pro- jection of the head of the bone, and by its following the move- ments of the elbow when rotated. Only two cases have occurred in Guy’s Hospital during thirty-e'ght years. The bandages are to be applied in the same manner as in the dislocation into the axilla, and the extension made in the same direction, rotating, at the same time, the head of the bone inwards. The fourth dislocation of the humerus is only partial. It is an an accident which frequently occurs. The head of the bone is thrown forwards against the coracoid process ; there is a hcllow at the back part of the shoulder joint; the axis of the arm is thrown inwards and forwards: the under motions of the arm ' are still performed, but it cannot be raised, from its striking against the coracoid process. The head of the bone may be felt to rotate. The reduction is the game as that for the dislocation forwards, but the shoulders should also be drawn backwards, to bring the head of the bone to the glenoid cavity. After the re- duction, the shoulders must be secured by the clavicular band-