DISLOCATIONS OF THE CLAVICLE. 625 Dislocations of the Clavicle. The sternal end of the clavicle is dislocated in two directions, forwards and backwards; most frequently forwards, when it is thrown upon th&fore and upper part of the sternum. This ac- cident may be readily distinguished by the swelling seen on the upper part of the sternum; and, if the fingers be carried upon the surface of the sternum upwards, this projection stops them; but, if there be any doubt about it, place your knee against the spine, draw the shoulders backwards, and the clavicle sinks into its natural situation; but immediately you uncover the extension, tlie swelling again protrudes. If the shoulder be elevated the projection descends ; if the shoulder be drawn downwards the extremity of the clavicle passes upwards towards the neck. The motions of the clavicle are painful, and those of the shoulder performed with difficulty. In a thin person, you see immediately the nature of the accident; but in a stout person it is sometimes difficult. The reduction is easily effected in the way just pointed oat; apply the clavicular bandage. The arm does not require to be supported. The second dislocation is backwards, behind the sternum: this is a very rare dislocation. I have never seen a case of it arising from injury, but it has happened from great deformity of the spine, which advani;ed the scapula, and did not leave sufficient room for the clavicle between the scapula and sternum, and it gradually glided behind the sternum; and the pressure of the end of the bone was so great on the sesophagus as to require its removal. It does not produce much difficulty of breathing, because the trachea is pushed to the other side ; but the ®8ophagU8 is compressed, and produces great difficulty of swallowing. When it arises from deformity of the spine, there is no mode of reducing it. In the case just mentioned, the clavicle was sawn through about one inch from the sternum, by Mr, Davis, late of Bungay, in Suffolk, and very carefully dissected out. This was a very bold operation, but it succeeded perfectly. None but an excellent anatomist would have dared to attempt it. The scapular end is more frequently dislocated than the sternal. It may be detected by putting the finger on the spine of the scapula, and tracing it forwards towards the acromion, where the finger will be stopped by the projecting portion of the clavicle. The shoulder will be depressed, and drawn inwards towards the sternum, and from the projection of the clavicle it will appear flattened, something like the dislocation into the axilla. This happens from the scapula having lost its support, it being the 2 a