616 ON DISLOCATIONS. to the gentleman who rules over that hospital, and I have the satisfaction of stating, that making patients spit three balf-pinu a-day will no longer be a part of the system, but that the venereal wards will be within a week opened under neio and improved auspices. I trust that harmony and unanimity will ever be pre* served among the members of the profession, which are essential for their mutual advantage, and the advantage of the public; and it shall not be my fault if that harmony is ever disturbed. LECTURE LXIX. On Dislocations. Gentlemen, before considering the particular dislocations, I shall make some general remarks on these accidents. A dislocation is the removal of the articulating portion of a bone from that surface to which it is naturally connected. A limb, when dislocated, is generally rendered shorter than before; but there are two dislocations in which the limb is lengthened, as in the dislocation of the femur into the foramen ovale, and the dislocation of the humerus into the axilla. The axis of the limb is altered, and it becomes unnaturally fixed. In the first moments, however, of the dislocation, considerable motion re- mains, and the position is not so determinately fixed as it after- wards becomes. The motion of the joint is lost, flexion and extension are slightly allowed, but rotation is completely pre- vented. There is a dull confused sensation in the part; but if the head of the humerus be thrown into the axilla, the pain is very severe and sensation is lost in the fingers from the pressure on the axillary plexus. If the head of the femur be thrown into the ischiatic notch, the pressure of the bone on the nerves there occasions great pain and numbness of the lower extremity. There is a slight crepitation when dislocations have only occur- red for a day or two, which is owing to the escape of synovia from the joint into the surrounding cellular membrane; this be- comes thickened by the absorption of the more fluid part, and crackles under motion; a circumstance which every practitioner should be aware of, as this is often mistaken for fracture; but it does not give that peculiar grating feel which the extremities of the fractured bones produce. There is very great swelling pro- duced by the extravasation of blood into the cellular tissue, but the tension arises secondly from inflammation. In the early days