aPEUATlOK OF LITHOTOMY. Admiral, ‘ to take a drachm of subcarbonate of soda four times a-day; though the stone falls over the neck of the bladder, I no longer feel any pain, and if you were to ask me now to submit to the operation, 1 would snap my fingers at you.’ ” It appears, therefore that though medicines cannot dissolve the stone, they may lessen the irritability of the bladder, and greatly mitigate the sufTerings of the patient. The soda diminished the stimulating influence of the urine; it may also coat the surface of the stone; if it do, so much the better. The following case affords a remarkable instance of the influ- ence of the acids in altering the character of calculi, by acting on the surface, and diminishing irritability. A gentleman from Birmingham consulted Dr. Baillie and myself, on account of his passing a large quantity of triple phosphate with his urine. He was recommended to take the muriatic acid, and three days after he had taken it, the triple phosphate had entirely disappeared, but the uric acid was substituted for it in as large quantities as the triple phosphate. As long as he continued to take the muriatic acid, he made uric acid; but when he left it off, the triple phosphate was re-prpduced ; but whether he made triple phosphate or uric acid, there was no diminution of the secretion from the kidneys in point of quantity. The acids, therefore, will' alter the cha- racter of the calculus, by acting upon its surface, and diminish, ing irritability; but they have no power of dissolving the stone in the bladder. This gentleman was relieved from the calculous secretion from the kidneys, by attention to his general health, and not by any medicines given with a view to the calculus. The liquor potassse conjoined with opium has considerable effect in diminishing irritability ; and it should be given for some time before the operation for stone. 7’his medicine has a very bene- ficial effect on children who have stone in the bladder, and pass a large quantity of matter; it will remove this excessive secre- tion and enable you afterwards to perform the operation with success. Some little benefit may therefore be derived from medical treatment, by lessening the irritability of the bladder and consti- tution, but the stone will remain, and surgery alone will be the only effectual means bv which the sufferings of the patient can be removed. , Operation of Lithotomy. We shall now proceed to speak of the operation for stone, of