ON FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. 142 tliis man capable of giving a history of the accident, and that his mind is not at all affected. On the other hand, you may be called to a person who has fracture of the skull with de- pression, and who has lost the powers of mind. In such a case, if the fracture is simple, and there is no wound in the scalp, and no symptoms of injury to the brain, it would be the worst practice in the world to make an incision into the part, and perform the operation of trephining ; for by making such an incision you add greatly to the danger of the patient, as you make what was before a simple, a compound fracture, and consequently greatly increase the danger of inflammation. Inflammation rarely follows fracture with depression, where the fracture is simple, but very often follow's a compound fracture, which is produced by making an incision in the scalp. Never make ah incision, therefore, when you can avoid it, or merely be- cause there is fracture with depression, if there be no symptom of injury to the brain. Even if there be symptoms of injuiy to the brain, and the fracture be simple,- do not immediately trepan. Take away blood, and purge your patient freely, and see how far the symptoms may be the result of concussion of the brain, and not of depression. If the symptoms do not yield to depletion, then, and not till then, perform the operation of trephining. I was called to a lady who had fallen against a projection of a wall m walking across her parlour. The os frontis was driven in, but there was no symptoms of compression of the brain. I bled her, and guarded cautiously against inflammation, but there was no necessity for elevating a portion of the bone. This lady never had any symptoms of injury to the brain, and she recovered by depletion alone. The old practice used to be, the moment an injury to the brain was suspected, and the least depression of the bone appeared, to make an incision into the scalp. I have heard of a dresser in these hospitals, who, having had no accident during his week, said, “ I will make a cut in the head of one of my patients with fracture, for he may perhaps have depression, and I shall in this way have something to do before my week is up.” This dresser ought to have a cut made in his own head ; he' should have been cut for the simples. (A Laugh) This was putting his patient to consi- derable hazard ; for the simple fracture would, by the incision, be rendered a compound fracture. In simple fracture, then, w'nen it is attended with symptoms of injury to the braiu, deplete bcloro