ON ANEUIUS.M OK THE AOllTA. 167 days afterwards ; the opening of the wound, however, gradually increased and she died in consequence of inflammation of the in- terior of the aneurismal bag and aorta. When,, therefore, you are called to a person with an aneurism in this part, and when hemorrhage has come on, you can protract life by coating the wound with lint, and endeavouring to form an artificial sac ; and by this means you give your patient two or three days, or weeks, to live, allowing him that time for making any preparation he may wish. These cases are, however, quite hopeless, and I have never known one spontaneously cured. Aneurisms op the Curvature of the Aorta. These aneurisms are very frequent, and are to be seen just above the sternum. You will find that termination of existence takes place in different modes in these aneurisms. In the speci- men before me (exhibiting one on the table), cfeath was produced by the bursting of the artery into the trachea ; it was given me by Mr. Davis, and was taken from a man, the subject of aneu- rism of long existence ; rising from his bed one day, the artery must have burst into the air tube, cough came on with a sudden gush of blood, and he died, partly from suffocation, and partly from loss of blood. An aneurism of this kind often causes, by its pressure, dyspnoea and suffocation ; it also often presses be- hind on the oesophagus, instead of in front on the sternum ; it will be seen in the back, through the ribs, by the edge of the scapula, between'its base and the spine. Now, gentlemen, 1 will tell you one or two practical points here, to put you on your guard ; and induce you to take great care in these cases. Mr. Dyson of the city, called on me one day, and said, that he had a patient with aneurism of the neck, which he thought was an aneurism of the carotid, and that he should like me to see it. I immediately went with him, and on examining, midway between the clavicle and lower jaw, there appeared to be a collection of fluid proceed- ing to behind the sternum. I told Mr. Dyson, that I was very doubtful of its being an aneurism of the carotid. Some time after this, Mr. Dyson sent for me to go with him to examine the body of this person ; we found a small pouch, just behind the sternum, proceeding from the curvature of the aorta. It was of very great importance, that a ligature had not been applied ; the sac would have been cut through, and destruction of life taken place. The late Mr. Bums, of Glasgow, who was an excellent anatomist, and who published a capital work on the anatomy of the head and