28 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION, restoration of the injured parts; the most disastrous consequences, in such cases, follow the indiscriminate employment of blood- letting ; and there is not to be found, in the whole range of sui gical practice, a greater error than this. The second mode of relieving inflammation is by restoring the secretions : for whenever it occurs, at least in any violent degree, all the secretions arediminished or suppressed. The most import- ant secretions are those of the liver, intestines, skin, and kidneys ; and, when these cease to perform their proper functions, irrita- tive fever is the consequence. A deficiency of secretion in the alimentary canal is the cause of a great many of the diseases to which human beings are subject. The internal surface of the in- testines is lined with glands; the tube itself, on an average, is twenty-seven feet in length, and three inches in circumference ; thus there are here about a thousand inches of surface, from which, in health, continual secretion proceeds. What then must be the result of allowing such an extensive surface to remain inactive 1—Of course, the production and continuance of irrita- tion and fever ! To excite the Intestinal canal to action, there- fore, should be one of our first objects. This may be done by purgatives: and they afford relief in nearly the same manner as the abstraction of blood from the arm ; for a pint of serum will frequently pass off with feculent matter, after taking a cathartic. Purgatives have likewise another good effect, independently of restoring the secretions from the intestinal tube, viz. that of carry- ing off whatever feculent matter may be lodged in the intestines : but I do not believe that much irritation is produced by the ac- cumulation of faeces in comparison with that whicli takes place from a stoppage or deficiency of the secretions. I have met witir several caises in which a vast quantity of faeces had collected, yet little constitutional irritation was produced: similar cases fre- quently come under the observation of accoucheurs. In one in- stance, which I met with, the pressure from the faeces was so violent that it produced ulceration into the vagina : yet tlie amaz- ing quantity of feculent matter excited but little constitutional irritation. Some fluid formed a passage by the condensed mass, and was daily discharged ; this in a great measure, accounts for the abscence of irritative fever. That it is from the check to tlie secretions that irritative fever arises, is proved by what liappens in children during dentition. They are sometimes put to bed quite well, but iu tlie morning