ON POISONS. 483 roneous to suppose that all the symptoms of the disease are pro- duced by inflammation. In hydrophobia and tetahus, the symp- toms very nearly approach, yet in the two diseases there is a very great difference. On the dissection of those who have died of hydrophobia, there has been found inflammation of the internal surface of the pharynx; the mucous and muscular coats of the stomach simi- larly inflamed, and the muscular fibres of the latter in a state of violent contraction ; the contents of the stomach not digested. Now, these appearances are not sufficient to account for the symp- toms, and the cause certainly resides in the nervoui system. He who supposes, therefore, that the disease depends upon inflam- mation, and treats it by bleeding, does not entertain correct views of the disease ; he is quite mistaken in its character. Two or three cases were treated by copious venesection some years ago in the East Indies ; the symptoms, however, were not those of hydrophobia, but of inflammation of the oesophagus. A man, so.me years ago, in the other hospital, had symptoms resembling hydrophobia ; he never had received a bite ; and, upon exami- nation after death, the oesophagus situated behind the heart was found to be greatly inflamed ; the symptoms were not those of hydrophobia, but of inflammation of the oesophagus. 1 advise you, gentlemom. to read the paper which I before alluded to, published by Dr. Babington, in which a complete history of the disease was given ; and you will there see that the loss of blood does not tend, in the slightest degree, to relieve the malady. 1 he two first cases that I saw were treated by bleeding ; the loss of blood reduced the strength, but did not mitigate the sym- ptoms ; on the contrary, I think the irritability was increased from the weakness which the venesection occasioned. A rabid animal will at first lap fluids, but cannot take solids ; will throw his meat among the straw, and bite at every thing that is near him ; his master will take his food to him, who will be treated by the animal at first in the customary manner; as the disease advance.s, however, the respect and attachment to the master becomes lost, and the animal will bite him like- wise. After lapping a little water, the dog will take hold of the vesvd between its teeth, and then dash it to the ground ; thus it will l,e observed that the natural character of the animal reinains fcr a long time unchanged. A gentleman living in a village had