LOCAL TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. 84 ‘0 liK); this result was contrary to all that I had ever been taught of the leg. Cold, applied in excess, destroys life, by abstracting heal, without which the vital actions cannot be supported. On the living body you may apply cold to a part until it ac- tually becomes frozen. Mr. Cline and Mr. Sharp were once at- tending a patient who had strangulated hernia; to reduce which they applied ice enclosed in linen cloths, and this they continued for thirty-six hours : now, as the ice dissolved, the water formed by it ran down upon the man’s groin, and the inner side of his thigh, and the parts whereon this stream passed became completely frozen ; proper applications restored them to life; but inflamma- tion and slight mortification succeeded: the hernia, however, was reduced, and the man eventually did well. In similar cases I advise you to apply ice in a bladder j and take care that you do not continue it too long. It frequently happens in this country, during severe winters, that the lobes of the ears and tips of the noses of those who are much exposed to the weather will become frozen ; they may be restored to life by rubbing them with snow. One of the best lotions that can be applied to an inflamed part is composed of one ounce of rectified spirits of wine and five ounces of water. Goulard water is much extolled for reducing inflammation and lessening pain : but when too long applied, or too strong, it has been known to destroy nervous irritability in too great a degree. Mr. Foster, of Guy’s, saw a person in whom the upper eyelid became completely paralysed from its improper application. In applying the spirit of wine lotion let your cloths be thin, so that the spirit may combine with the heat of the part, and carry it off in the form of vapour; in other words, eva- poi-ation is produced, and it is in that way its good effects are evinced. I do not recommend the application of ice to parts while in a state of inflammation; it irritates, and is apt to produce gan- grene. Some years since, when I was making a series of physiological experiments, I wished to ascertain what effects would be produ- ced upon the pulse by the sudden application of severe cold, for ^liifli purpose I plunged my arm to the shoulder into snow; at •»o time of the immersion my pulse was 80, but immediately rose