54-6 ON CIIANCRK. chancre, the one not of an irritable habit, and the other being very irritable, you will find in the first there would be scarcely any inflammation, whilst in the second it would be violent, and of an erysipelatous character j indeed, under these cir- cumstances, if the part be not very carefully managed, it will be in considerable danger. So a man with a chancre to-day, which has a healthy appearance, shall to-night indulge in some act of debauchery, to-morrow he will have a bloody discharge from the sore, inflammation round the edges, and an irritable state of the parts, which you will soon find assuming a slough- ing disposition. Thus, then, if the constitution be irritable na- turally, from intemperate habits, or inattention to rest, the most serious state of chancre may arise. People pursuing a parti- cular business, such as journeymen bakers, whose habits are of the most irregular kind, are frequently affected with chancres going into the sloughing process. See, for instance, how these people pass their lives, kneading dough during the greater part of the night, lying down only during short intervals to rest, frequently staying up all the night without any repose ; and if they rest at all, only for a few hours towards morning, and thus rendering their constitutions excessively irritable. When the chancre proceeds to a sloughing state, from any of the causes I have mentioned, the pulse will generally be from 120 to ICO ; you will also find a considerable erysipelatous inflammation ex- tending round the chancre ; and, in a short time, the sloughing process commences, by which the penis is lost. These varieties of chancre you have an opportunity every week of seeing for yourselves; and if you have not observed them, it shews a shameful neglect of your duty. The time at which chancre ap- pears after connexion is from four to seven days; but if there is a gonorrhoea also, it prevents the appearance of the chancre so early: thus, if a person be affected with the two poisons, the one delays the appearance of the other. If the matter of a chancre be applied to the urethra, it will not produce a gonor- hoeal discharge, but a sore, and that sore will pour out a serous fluid, mixed with the red particles of blood, not at all purulent, but of a bloody serum, which is the matter from the chancre, and not in any respect gonorrhoeal. The matter of gonorrhcea does not produce chancre ; for, if leeches be applied to the pre- puce, and the gonorrhoeal matter afterwards comes in contact with the leech-bites, a sore is produced, not of a chancious