81 Oii GRANULATION. elapsed singe the case occured, and the transaction is now almost buried in oblivion. One of the parties is since dead; not the person, however, who underwent the operation, for he still lives, and is proud of his improved legs. Opium, when applied to the surfaces of sores, is very readily absorbed into the system. I believe that it is often a very use- ful application to the surfaces of sores. I mentioned, on an- other occasion, a case in which a tenatic affection was pro- duced in a child, whose leg had been amputated by Mr. Lucas, the present surgeon of Guy’s, and where the application of opium to the stump gave more immediate relief than I ever re- member to have witnessed. It relieved the spasms, and, as I believe, saved the child. If opium, applied to the surface of sores, be absorbed into the system, it produces excessive costive- ness, extreme pain in the head, and torpor of the system, which is only to be removed by the frequent administration of active purgatives. The effects on the constitution, when absorbed from the surface of sores, are very much the same as when it is intro- duced into the stomach. Granulations possess nerves as well as arteries, veins, and ab- sorbent vessels. Granulations are sometimes extremely sensitive; but this is far from being the case in all granulations. We shud- der at seeing a person handle a sore roughly, supposing that it must give the patient extreme pain. Granulations which spring from parts endued with great sensibility, such as muscles, are in- deed extremely sensitive; but many granulations, such, for in- stance, as arise from bones, have no sensibility whatever. If ul- ceration bepioduced to a considerable extent in an exposed bone of the head, a probe may be put into it, while the patient is quite insensible of your touching his head. If you do this in the granu- lations arising from bones, and ask the patient whether you have touched him, he will say, •'No but if you apply the probes to the edge, or near the edge of the wound, he will feel it. Gra- nulations, therefore, springing from bone in an uninflamed state of the bone, are not sensitive, I have, at present a patient who had a compound fracture of the leg; the fracture was attended with abscess, and a small exfoliation of the bone took place. In this case, when a probe was put down into the cavity, the granulations from the cancellated structure of the bone were extremely sensitive. When the inflammation passes away, the sensibility of the part is diminished. The o