>607 DISEASES OF THE HIP JOINT. find the difference of an inch. After a short time, indeed, a con- siderable reduction takes place in the length of the limb, the reason for which you will immediately see. When you endeavour to ascertain whether disease of the hip- joint exists or not, you should first place the patient on his back, and examine whether the sides of the pelvis are equal; the pelvis will be lower on the diseased side. Having placed the patient in the recumbent posture, you will then bend the knee towards the abdomen, which, if there be disease of the hip-joint, will occasion considerable pain. In rotating the joint also, much pain will be excited in consequence of its stiffened state. You will then turn the patient on his face, and observe whether the nates are lower on one side than on the other : there is generally a difference of an inch or more on the diseased side. These are the common characters of this disease. On dissection you find the following circumstances:—In the first place, a quantity of adhesive matter is poured out about the joint; the ligaments are much thickened; the synovial surface is inflamed, and often slightly ulcerated ; the cartilages of the joint are ulcerated ; and, lastly, the bone itself is sometimes absorbed—not only the head of the bone which enters the acetabulum, but the acetabulum itself. You will find examples of all these appearances in the preparations on the table ; there is one in which the head of the bone has been absorbed from ulceration, and another in which the cavity of the acetabulum has undergone a remarkable alter- ation, the upper part of it having been absorbed. Abscesses are frequently formed in diseases of the hip joint, which take dif- ferent directions: in general, their course is down the thitrh, between the trochanters and the outer surface of the thigh, where they break. Sometimes they occur in the upper part of the thigh; there is an example in the collection, in which an abscess occurred in the direction of the femoral artery; and, by its pressure, occasioned the absorption of a considerable portion of the vessel itself. .Sometimes the abscess breaks into the rectum; there is an example of this in a preparation on the table, whore you will perreive the rectum very considerably enlarged at the place into which the abscess has broken. Ab-» Bcesses sometimes take their course into the vagina, from whence the matter is dircharged; an instance of this kind occurred recently in a child of eleven years of age. It will be right, therefore, to ment on to the friends of the patient, that there is great variety as to the course which abscesses take in this disease.