340 SIZE OF CALCULI. complains of but trifling symptoms; and, on the othe hand, when the stone is perfectly smooth, the patient, sulTers extreme pain. The pain, therefore, depends more on the irritability of the bladder and the constitution of the patient, than on the form or surface of tha stone ; cwteris paribus, however, rough stones will give the greatest degree of pain. There are four different kinds of calculi, when chemically examined. A very nice examination may lead to further dis- coveries on this subject; but at present we are only acquainted with four species. The first is the uric acid, which is a common, but not the most common, form of calculus. The second is the triple phosphate, or ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate; the third species is the mulberry, or oxalate of lime, an excellent specimen of which occurred the other day in the boy at the hospital. The other species was lately discovered by Dr Wollaston, a most ad- mirable chemist, and one of the first philosophers of the age, who developes every subject to which he applies his active and power- ful mind, with an extraordinary degree of minuteness and accu- racy. In examining the different calculi, he discovered the spe- cies which I am now mentioning, to which he gave the name of the cystic oxide. With respect to the uric acid, it is distinguished by concentric lamellae, and when cut has the colour and appear ance of wood. (The learned professor exhibited a specimen to the class.) It is soluble in alkalis, and alkaline medicines are therefore commonly recommended for this kind of stone. The second species is coniposed of triple phosphate, or ammo- niaco-magnesian phosphate. It is of a greyish white colour, and not so-distinctly laminated as the uric acid. It is not soluble in alkalis, but it is acted upon by the acid ; on the application of the blow-pipe it becomes vitrified. It is acted upon by the acids, but not in any considerable degree. A quantity of matter resem- bling mortar, which is, in fact, the ammoniaco-magnesian phos- phate, is generally passed from the bladder, and the urine is highly ofl'ensive. 1 mention particularly these appearances, because this stone is constantly liable to be reproduced after the operation is performed, which is not the case with the uric acid stone. I will mention a case, which made a strong impression on me in earlier life, showing the readiness with which the triple phosphate is reproduced. A gentleman came to me from Southampton whh stone in his bladder. I operated upon him, and removed a triple phosphate calculus. lie came to me again twelve months after, with sympto^)s of stone. I sounded mm and distinctly fell a