ON COMPRESSION .OF THE BRAIN. 135 LECTURE XVII. On Co-mpression of the Brain. We have to consider the causes which give rise to it, its symp- toms, and the treatment which it requires. When a person is labouring Under compression of the brain, it is known by the breathing being stertorous, the pulse slow, and the pupils dilated ; to which may be added the symptoms of concussion ; when you find a patient then with the apoplec- tic stertor, slow pulse, dilated pupils, it will generally happen that the brain is compressed. The causes which produce com- pression are three: 1. Extravasation of blood; 2. Fracture with depression; 3. Formation of matter within the skull; these are the three causes which give rise to compression ; we shall first consider compression when produced by extravasation. Now. gentlemen, when the brain is compressed by extravasated blood, the symptoms do not directly occur ; the person, at the time of the injury is often stunned, recovers himself, and a short time after, falls into a comatose state, and then the apoplectic stertor begins. I will relate to you a case to illustrate this. A child was playing on a table, from which it fell on a stone floor, and received a severe blow on the head, which caused compres- sion of the brain ; the child appeared to recover at four in the afternoon, the time at which the accident occurred being one ; pain still continued in the head, the child cried considerably ; it went to bed about two hours before its usual time ; during the night, the servant was awoke by the apoplectic stertor of the child, which prevented her from sleeping; when she moved it, the child was not roused ; she discovered that it wtis ill, alarmed the family, and at eight in the morning it died : it was found after death, that a considerable quantity of blood was extravasated in the brain. The son of a most respectable merchant of the city was driving to his country-house at a short distance from town, in a one-horse chaise, when he was thrown out, and pitched with his head to the ground; he was stunned by the fall; he recovered a little, but looked very pale ; he said that he vvas much hurt; a friend who was with him drove him home ; in the evening he felt very heavy, laying his head on his hand ; symptoms of com- pression of the brain came on ;. ten /i.wt., the family was alarmed ; medical assistance called, but at two the following morning he died, ail efforts to save him being unavailing.