470 OV HARE-LIP. lliis will be the best bond of union, and the adhesions which take place under this seldom give way. Another point for our consideration, is the age when the operation ought to be performed. Should it be attempted on very young infants, or should we wait until a more advanced period? To this question, an answer is easily given: and I reply never operate on very young infants but defer it until the comple- tion of dentition, In very early life there is always great danger from operations ; and several infants, within my own knowledge, have died in convulsions, after the operation for hare lip. Some years since, when 1 was at Yarmouth, I was told of a case that had terminated fatally : convulsions carried off the infant a few days after the operation Not the slightest blame was attributable to the practitioner : experience had not then establish- ed the propriety of delaying the operation till a more advanced age. I was once asked, if I would operate on a very young in- fant, for hare-lip, whose parents resided in Fenchurch street: I replied. Yes; and shortly after went, and did it. I promised to call on the fourth day, but received a message, saying that it was not necessary for me to do so, as the child was dead. Some years ago a gentleman from Suffolk brought his infant to town to undergo the operation; it was performed ; pins were employed. Two days after the operation diarrhoea came on ; on the day following it was so excessive that the pins were removed; at the expiration of two other days the child was carried off. A woman once brought her infant to me on a Monday morning for the purpose of having it operated on for hare-lip. I com- pleted it, and directed her to bring the child again on the fol- lowing Thursday; she came, and told me the infant had died. Now, if parents should urge you much to perform the ope- ration on very young infants, explain the danger which attends It in very early life. Tell them of its fatal results; when, should they still press it, the blame will be on them, and not you. Children when so very young are not competent to undergo operations, and you ought not to perform them for hare-lip un- less the children have reached the age of two years. After that period they possess some degree of strength, and are much less disposed to irritation and convulsions. I have still to mention the operation required for double hare- lip. It has been recommended to cut away that portion of skin