83 O.M GRANULATION. toward} the centre, and those on the edge inosculate with those on the surface of the sore, and are united by the adhesive pro- cess. The vessels become elongated from the edge of the sore, and proceed in radii from the circumference to the centre. Day after dav an addition is thus made to the cicatrix, until at last the vessels reach the centre from every part of tlie circumference ; when the process of cicatrization is completed. It may be said by some persons, that this is not the only mode which Nature takes for the formation of new skin, for that it often happens that the process of cicatrization commences from the centre of the sore. If these persons mean to say that insulated portions of the skin are sometimes seen in the centre ot a sore, having no communication with its edges, there can be no doubt of the fact. But how does this happen ? It is not that the centre of the sore has the power of forming new skin, but the new skin in the centre is produced in consequence of the whole of the skin not having been ulcerated away, and gra- nulations arising from the part of the skin which was left. This only happens in irregularly-formed sores, where the heal- ing process is gone on to the centre, and then the sore has broken out in the circumference. If granulations arise from any portion of skin in the centre, these granulations produce new skin, and an insulated portion of skin is produced, form- ing a part of the cicatrix, which is not afterwards ulcerated away. When a cicatrix is formed, in the first instance it is extremely vascular; but when it has existed for any length of time, the blood vessels become contracted, and it is whiter than the original skin. Hence the white appearance of the cicatrices aftei small-pox; for, although they are more vascular than the original skin, when first formed, in a little time they lose this vascularity, and are endued with less living power than the surrounding parts. The readiness with which the surface of a sore is covered in by cicatrization depends very much on its form. A sore of a circular form requires a very considerable time before it will heal; whereas a sore of much greater length, but of less dia- meter, would heal more quickly. Voii may always pronounce, therefore, that a round sore will be longer in healing than a longitudinal one, ciclerit paribus, as, for example, in the same puient, where the coa.titution ii the same. The reason is, that ti 2