ON CATXULI IN THE URETHRA. aS4 retention of urine from that cause, Vje very much on your guard not to displace it from its situation, or thrust it back towards the bladder, as you will be in danger of su^ecting the patient to the necessity of afterwards submitting to the operation for litho- tomy. What you should do is to pass the largest sized bougie into the passage, so as to reach the anterior extremity of the stone ; you should then tie the bougie to the penis, so that the urine may not escape by the side, and let it remain for a considerable time in the urethra. The patient will have an urgent desire to make water, but you must desire him not to attempt to pass hi-t urine until you give him permission to do so. When the urgency to make water is so extreme, that the patient can no longer endure it, un- tie the bougie from the penis ; and as soon as it is withdrawn the urine accumulated behind the stone will gush forward, and the stone will generally pass into the vessel into which the patient discharges his urine. In this way you will generally succeed in getting rid of extraneous bodies from that part of the urethra. I have known a bougie remain four hours in the urethra, before the distress arising from the accumulation of urine was sufficient to justify the propriety of withdrawing it. The second situation in which stones are found in the urethra is opposite the scrotum. In this situation they sometimes prove fatal. There is a prepa- ration on the table taken from a child, which died from this cause : the scrotum in this case was extremely enlarged and red- dened : the penneum was also inflamed, and gangrene took place, which led to the destruction of life. When the stone is lodged opposite the scrotum, there is danger of the urethra giving way, and the urine escaping into the cellular tissue. When you have ascertained by the probe that the stone is in this situation, you must endeavour to push it about an inch behind the scrotum, where you should make your incision. It is wrong to ma!.e the incision through the scrotum itself, if you can avoid it; but i' you are obliged to do so, in consequence of your being unable to push back the stone, make the opening as large as possible, so that the water may pass with great freedom through the cellular tissue, and escape externally. The third situation in which stones are lodged in the urethra is opposite the frmnum, where it will be necessary to adopt a different plan. I have told you that you can very rarely succeed in extracting them with the forceps; what you must do is to curve the end of a probe as much us possible; pass it down the urethra beyond the stone