ON CALCULI IN THE URETER. 333 lyermatic plexus, the cremaster will be spasmodically con- tacted, and there will be felt severe paiu in the testicle ; the stomach will likewise be particularly irritable, and continually eject its contents ; the skin covered with cold sweats, with a death-like paleness of the countenance j the pain is not constant, but comes on at intervals ; after continuing for some minutes, a complete remission occurs, aud you therefore suspect that the stone has passed j after a lapse, however, of ten or fifteen minutes, it returns with as much severity as before. I have known an instance in which the violence of the pain was so great from a calculus in the ureter, that the patient absolutely laid down on the ground, and rolled about, so intense was the agony, and though not more than a quarter of a mile from his residence, he was under the necessity of bqing carried to his house by the servants. The symptoms which have been just mentioned teach you, most unequivocally, that a stone exists in the ureter. It not unfrequently happens that nature fails in her attempts to relieve ; the disease then necessarily terminates in the de- struction of life. One case of this kind has been witnessed by Mr. Hallam j matter and urine were for .a considerable time discharged by stool, but from what cause could not be imagin- ed ; when the individual died, upon an examination of the body, a stone was found impacted in the ureter ; the colon and ureter wefe united by means of the adhesive process, and an opening about three-quarters of an inch from the kidney, had beeii made from the latter into the Lrmer, which satisfactorily explained the origin of the pus and urine evacuated from the intestines before death. Here is a preparation (showing one to the students) which was taken from a boy who had been successfully operated upon for stone in this hospital, by Mr. Cline, sen. ; in a short time subsequent to the operation, the lad suffered from severe pain in his loins ; this wais quickly followed by rigors, and lastly death j when his body was examined, a stone was discovered in the xreter. A woman once came to my house, complaining of a •vost lancinating pain in the belly and loins, together with exces- sive vomiting. I told her that she was much too ill to be absent from her house, and advised her instantly to return home and send for her medical attendant. In company with this gentleman, I soon afterwards saw her ; at the expiration of three days sha