ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 392 With regard to tlie success of the operation, it may be said, that it is more successful at tlie immediate part operated upon than is the case in scirrhous tubercle, but it certainly returns more frequently in other parts of the body, and in which situa- tions it probably existed in an incipient state at the moment that the operation was performed ; it is altogether an unmanageable complaint, and one which is calculated to cast opprobrium upon the practice of surgery. Simple Chronic Tumour of the Breast. This disease is not of a malig.iant character, and by no means dangerous to life ; it is generally very young people who are attacked by it, and we seldom see it in persons above thirty years of age. I will try to describe, in a familar manner, the mode in which this disease will be exhibited to you. A young person between the age of fifteen and thirty, will be brought to you by her parents, on account of a swelling in her breast ; when you look at her, you see that she has a perfectly healthy appearance, and, in all probability, is much younger than those who are usually attacked by scirrhous tubercle. Her parents being naturally anxious for their child’s safety, express their fears of the disease being cancerous; at this you smile, and tell them that cancer does not attack persons of her healthy appear- ance, or persons so young ; upon examining the breast you find an exceedingly moveable tumour, but more diffused in the sur- rounding substance than truescirrhus ; that is, its limits are not so accurately or distinctly defined, having likewise a lobulated feel, being divided into distinct apartments by septa, producing the same kind of sensation to the fingers as fatty tumours; you have here (delivering a preparation to a student) an opportunity of seeing this kind of tumour, and upon carefully examining it, you will find that the account which I have given you is correct. Well, then, the age and healthy appearance of the person ; the lobulated feel of the tumour, and its lying more blended with the neighbouring parts, will at once point out to you that the disease is not cancerous ; which, gentlemen, you may inform the person’s parents, and likewise tell them that the disease never will become cancerous. I assure you that this disease is not in the slightest degree of a malignant character, neither is it attended with the least danger. Now then, as to the result of these tumours: tney may grow larger, and may be attended with pain at the pe- riods of "menstruation, but never will prove of serious conse- quence j upon that you may depend. If, however, the mind