570 ON SYPIIII.rnC ERUPTIONS. your guard, therefore, against treating a renewed discharge from the nose as syphilitic, on the supposition that the mercury previ- ously employed has not been sufficient to subdue the disease. The next subject of which I shall speak is that of Syphilitic Euuptioss. Syphilitic eruptions are the mildest of the secondary symptcms of the venereal disease, and, in general, admit of an easy cure. The common character of syphilitic eruptions is, that they are of a copper colour, rising a little above the surface of the skin, and, if tjiey go on to ulceration, form thick incrustations. They are attended with very little pain ; an itching, rather than a painful sensation, is felt in the part, which increases a little in the even- ing. There is a great variety in the character of venereal erup- tions, with respect to size ; in fact, you very rarely see the erup- tions in one patient exactly like those which occur in another. Go round the syphilitic wards to-morrow, and examine the ap- pearances of the eruptions in the different patients who have that symptom ; you will scarcely find them exactly alike in any two patients, in point of colour or of size. In some, you wdl find the eruptions of considerable magnitude, appearing as if a portion of copper skin was laid down upon the surface, but un- attended with ulceration. In others, you will observe deep ul- ceration, with a very ragged edge ; in others, there will be scaly eruptions, covering very large surfaces in various parts of the body. There is a greater variety in the character of venereal eruptions than in any other symptom of the disease. You may satisfy yourselves of this fact by going round the hospitals, and at the same time appreciate the pretensions of those persons who ascribe one uniform character to this symptom of the disease. With respect to the parts in which venereal eruptions most fre- quently appear in the first instance, they are the head, face, and roots of the hair. Incrustations form about the hair of the head, and scabs appear on the forehead, breast, the palms of the hands, and sometimes the soles of the feet. The palms of the hands are more frequently attacked with venereal eruptions than other parts of the body, because there is more vigour of circulation in these parts; the parts where the circulation is more feeble, are not so liable to be attacked. The treat- ment of venereal eruptions is of the most simple kind. You will pur- sue the same constitutional treatment that I have already advised ; give ten grains of the blue pill united with opium, at night, and