ON DISEASES OF TIIF. BREAST, a72 Ticicles, for they destroy the parent; thus it is in the breast, ei- actly the same as in the liver. When the sweHing has acquired a considerable magnitude the operation is generally performed for its removal; the patient ia anxious that it should be performed ; if she asks, is there any danger if left alone, you can assure her that there is none ; yet as long as she feels the swelling, she is incapable of enjoying life —gives way to desponding feelings of every kind; insists on die operation being performed; and thus is the surgeon obliged to do it on account of the patients solicitations, I tell you, assure her there is no danger to life, and still she persists in having it done. The operation is neither dangerous at the time, nor in the future, to the patient’s life. The largest breast with this affecUon that I ever removed, was done without the constitution suffering in the slightest degree. The patient’s life is not in danger from it, and as for the disease, you never find it return in any other part of the body. If any diseased part should be left on the gland, there will be a chance of the return of the disease. If so, other hy- datids form in the same breast but not in the other; therefore, the best plan is to take away the glandular structure of the breast, and all the diseased part being removed, the complaint will not re- turn. Although the removal of the breast is the plan usually adopted, yet I will tell you a mode of treatment which I have employed with success when there has been a single cyst. I will give you two examples, which will illustrate the nature of it bet- ter than any thing else. I do not know that it has been described by authors, but I will not speak positively of this, for God forbid that I should be obliged to read one-half or one-fourth of what is published now-a day. Case 1.—A young woman was sent by a respectable medical practitioner to Guy’s Hospital, with a swelling of the breast, and for the purpose of knowing whether an operation was ne- cessary for its cure. She was nineteen years of age, and when 1 examined the swelling it was moveable, and I was almost inclined to suppose that it was scirrhous; but her constitution was sound, her general health exceedingly good, and I said no operation ought to be performed. I kept her in the hospital some weeks to see the progress of the complaint; but the girl b^ing tired of waiting any longer, left the hospital. I lost sight of her for three years, at the expiration of which time she came