492 ON POISONS. internal medicine are at all equal to those which it possesses as an external application. I shall proceed to say a few words on the mineral pol'onB. Arsenic is a poison very commonly taken for the purpose of com- inittiug suicide: very soon after this poison is swallowed, the most excruciating pain is felt in the stomach ; besides this effect on the stomach it produces excessive vomiting, violent spasmodic contractions of the muscles of the abdomen, twitchings and con- vulsive motions of the hands. The pain is so horrible, that much as we may lament the want of firmness which leads to the commission of suicide, we deplore still more the suffering occa- cioned by a poison which produces such excruciating torture as arsenic. A person who has taken a sufficient quantity of arsenic to destroy life, dies about nine hours after having taken it. During that time he suffers the most excruciating agony until within two hours of his death, when his pain is somewhat miti- gated ; he is then convulsed, his body is perfectly pallid, and covered with a cold perspiration ; and his faeces pass off invo- luntarily, On examination of the body after death, a very large quantity of mucus appears to be thrown out, in consequence of the irritation produced by the arsenic. This is a sort of defence set up by nature, a quantity of mucilaginous matter being pro- duced, which is for a time capable of supporting the oxide of aursenic, so as to keep it from the coats of the stomach. When the quantity is large, the poison penetrates through this mucila- ginous secretion, affects the internal coats of the stomach, and pro- duces gangrene. The inflammation, however, is not general, but affects only particular spots. When the poison passes the bounds of the stomach, and enters the duodenum, it still produces ulce- rated spots of a gangrenous colour, the inflammation not be- ing generally diffused. If, therefore, you should be called upon in a court of justice to say whether you believe a person to have been poisoned by arsenic, your judgment must be guided by the following appearances ;—If the person has died by the effects of arsenic, you will find a large quantity of mucus secreted in the stomach, a part of the arsenic supported in the mucus, and gan- grenous spots in the internal part of the stomach. Having found these appearances, and carefully washed out the stomach, it is better to send the contents to .some person who is in the habit of making chemical experiments. A medical man, unless he is a first rate chemist, ought not to depend upon his own experiments