ON SUPPURATION. 65 very irritable one, and that accounts, in a great measure, for so speedy a dissolution. When, therefore, you suspect matter to have formed in these parts, let the quantity be ever so small, you ought to discharge it. It is surrounded by a structure through which, without assistance, it cannot pass; therefore nature requires your assistance. At the commencement of inflammation in these injuries, your treatment should be prompt—apply leeches and lotions, and give your patient calomel and opium—these measures, judiciously used, will often check the progress of the disease, and in a short time completely remove it. Formerly it was the opinion that matter was produced by a dissolution of the solids; but this opinion is now exploded for we have numerous facts to prove that it is not true ; in the urethra, for example, you all know that matter will be formed on its surface for months; and is the urethra destroyed by it I No, but on the contrary, is thicker than is was before the discharge existed ; and, upon examination of this part, after death, no ulcers have been discovered, even if the matter had been flowing for months : the ancients thought that gonor- rhoea arose from ulceration of the urethra; this opinion, there- fore, is also found to be wrong. Again, in large cavities, such as the chest and abdomen, an immense quantity of matter may be secreted, and yet, after death, no erosiqn of the solids will be discoverable ; but the membranes lining their cavities, namely, the pleura and peritoneum, will be found very mate- rially thickened. I remember, when there was a very warm discussion on this subject, the disputants used to put pieces of raw meat upon the*surfaces of ulcers, and after suffering them to remain for some time, would then carefully weigh them for llie purpose of ascertaining the quantity of substance lost. Pus is not a fluid produced by the dissolution of the solids ; it is secreted from the blood-vessels, but not until they have been acted upon by inflammation. The effects produced by the application of a blister exemplify this; when the cuticle IS raised, first serum and fibrin are thrown out; remove the cuticle and apply upon the raw skin a piece of glass ; at first no matter ts to be seen, but in a few minutes you will observe it collect and adhere to the under side of the glass ; bile, urine, and, in fact, all the fluids, are secreted from tho blood, but in each instance the action of the vessels is different. Pus is composed of serum, and particles swimming in that