ON ULCERS 94. posit of white matter, having the appearance almost of pus, into the anterior chamber of the eye, be any barrier to their use. Give five grains of calomel tind a grain of opium night and morning j and in the space of a week, if the eye has not suffered a good deal, or become disorganized, this remedy will correct the inflammation. We use other aids, such as the com- pound decoction of the sarsaparilla. Some think it a placebo; others have a very high opinion of its efficacy. I do not think much of it myself in those cases ; but, after the use of mercury, it diminishes the irritability of the constitution, and soon soothes the system into peace. With this view, its aid combined with other remedies may be of use. So much for irritable ulcers. Before I conclude this part of the subject, however, I will mention a case which just occurs to me; I allude to that of Mr, Lucas, the surgeon of the other hospital. That gentleman, in consequence of having pricked his finger, had a very irritable sore, which obliged him to go into the country, where he remained for a considerable time. The remedy which he found most efficacious for bringing the sore into a healing state, was the application of a solution of nitric acid, veiy much diluted, and the compound decoction of sarsaparilla. From the latter he thought he derived considerable benefit. By these means, and by attention to his general health, he effected a cure ; but his life was in considerable danger, from the irritable sore produced by this ap- parently trivial accident. Sinuous Ulceration.—It is necessary to explain here well what t mean. Whenever, therefore, a sore extends to any consider- able depth, so that the discharge has to travel through a channel before it arrives at the surface, such an ulceration is called sinuous. There are two reasons why these ulcerations are difficult to heal: first, from matter forming at the bottom, forcing its way through the passage, and thereby disturbing the healing process, by breaking down whatever adhesions or granulations form on its sides; and secondly, the same interruptions occur from the ac- tions of the muscles, when these ulcerations happen in muscu- lar parts. Thus, if the healing process has commenced in fis- tula in ano, when the sides of the fistula are at rest, the first time that the person has a motion, the sphincter ani, by its ac- tion, will destroy all the newly-formed adhesions and granula- tions; consequently, if the sphincter be divided, and the parts have rest, granulations will form, remain undisturbed, and a cure