401 ON punctUhino the bladder. soQ perform the operation of puncturing the bladder above the symphysis pubis, for an accumulation of blood in the bladder, which prevented the urine from passing by the urethra. The operation is very easily performed ; it is not liable to the objec- tions which were formerly made to it, and it is in general safe. In the female, it is absolutely necessary that this operation should be performed in cases of retention of urine, from retroversio uteri, and from a cancerous disease affecting the meatus urinaiius. Opening the bladder by the vagina is a very unsafe and disastrous operation in its consequences ; as the urine distils into the vagina, occasioning the highest degree of excoriation, attended with dread- ful suffering and constitutional irritation. It is an operation which ought never to be performed. ^ The next operation which I shall describe to you is that of PuNCTCHING THE BlaDDER HY THE ReCTUM. I must recall to your minds a little of the anatomy of the parts ; you remember that the prostate gland bounds the bladder at the under part, that directly behind it the vasa deferentia meet, and pass down at an acute angle, the sides so nearly approaching where they first touch the prostate gland, that there is no room for the introduction of an instrument without injuring either one or other of these tubes. The vesicul® seminales which are situated on the outer side of the vasa deferentia are not in danger from the operation. There is a triangular space behind the pros- tate gland, which affords room for the instrument; and how is this space bounded ? In the fore part it is bounded by the meet- ing of the vasa deferentia, which forms the apex of tlie triangle ; the sides of the triangle are formed by the vasa deferentia, which diverge from each other, passing from the prostate gland back- wards ; the basis of the triangle is formed by the peritoneum, which is reflected from the posterior part of the bladder to the upper part of the rectum. Taking advantage of this space of the bladder which is not covered by peritoneum, you pass the in- strument which you employ for the purpose of relieving the blad- der, about three-quarters of an inch behind the prostate gland, into the back of the bladder. You must not paiss it directly be- hind the prostate, for if you do, you will castrate the patient, either on one side or on the other, as the vasa deferentia are situated close at the basis of the prostate gland. If you carry the instru- ment three-quarters of an inch, or even half an inch, behind the prostate gland, the vasa deferentia vvill escape. No man should 2 D