ON H RUN I A, not liberate the stricture, that it will remain the same ; and that the constriction is at the crural arch. There is a danger in operating for femoral hernia, where the intestines are doubled up on themselves. A case of this kind occurred once at one of these hospitals :—One of the gentlemen attending these institu tions came up to me one day, and said that there had been an operation for femoral hernia, and that the intestine had been cut into; I enquired how this happened, and was informed, that the mouth of the hernial sac being divided the parts did not return ; the division was made still farther, and the knife was introduced two or three times; till at last, feculent matter came from the wound—the intestines having given way. I was aware that the opportunity for examining the part would soon arrive—one satis- faction at least that there ts from a bad case, by which we may learn our faults, and gather information to guide us in similar cases. On examining this patient, it was found that two convo- lutions of the intestines had been cut by the knife, just at the mouth of the hernial sac, and that Gimbernat’s ligament had been divided. Persons, who think the stricture is at Gimber- nat’s ligament are grossly ignorant of its real seat, and I can scarcely tell how to express my contempt for those who resist the evidence of their senses. I have my feelings on the subject, other persons have theirs ; but it is my duty to state to }’ou my views on this complaint; if I did not relate the result of my ex- perience, of what use has been my lecturing here for thirty-two years 1 and for what purpose have I attended hospital practice during the space of forty years 1 It is only the opportunities which I have had of watching disease that makes it worth your while to hear me, and that affords me pleasure in teaching you. (^Applaute.) I do not mention it to gain your approbation, but to enforce on your minds that nothing will avail in practice but the tact which is gained at the bed-side of the patient, and that any thing else is of comparatively little importance. Umbilical Hernia. Umbilical is next to inguinal hernia in frequency, if not before it; it very frequently occurs, but whether more or less so than inguinal, I am not quite certain. Umbilical hernia is very common in infants soon after birth, and to these cases you will be most frequently called. In adults, where there is great obe- sity, in pregnant women and children, this complaint is often found. In infants it will soon be recognized by the situation of