ON’ INFLAMMATION' OF THE CONJUNCTIVA. 273 becomes turgid from the increased quantity of blood admitted by the %’essels, and effusion follows. Although the swelling is pretty equally diffused over the whole surface of the conjunctiva, it seems to be the greatest at the transparent cornea, because here the coat is more tightly adherent. The conjunctiva is here ele- vated in a circular fold, and this appearance is called chemosis. The eyelids are in general more or less swollen from the same cause—namely, the greater determination of blood to the part, and the filling of the vessels. Not only is pain experienced in the eye from the causes I have mentioned, but also a sense of weight and fulness in the globe of the eye, as if the ball were too large for the socket. The neighbouring parts also, the forehead and temples, partake of the pain ; there will be a shooting pain to the maxillary bone, or more deeply seated in the head; these pains are in some irrstances extremely violent.' This train of symp- toms is attended with a greater or less degree of constitutional irritation. The patient complains of great lassitude, prostration of strength, chilliness or rigor followed by heats. His skin will often be hot and dry, and his pulse quick and hard; his stomach will be affected, and nausea or vomiting produced ; he will often com- plain of pain in the back, and, in short, of all the symptoms which indicate a considerable fever of the sympathetic kind, arising from local imtation. The degree in which these symptoms occur will of course vary according to the constitution of the patient- In young and robust persons there will often be a high degree ot local inflammation, without much constitutional irritation ; while, on the other hand, in delicate and imtable patients, a much less, nay sometimes a very trifling degree of local inflammation will be accompanied with violent symptoms of constitutional derange- ment. Accordingly, although, ca:teris paribus, the degree of constitutional irritation will be proportional to the degree of local excitement, this principle will be so much modified by the particular constitution of the patient, that in cases where, from the violence of the inflammation, much constitutional derange- ment might be expected, very little will occur; and vice versa, where, from the slight degree of local excitement, very little might be expecterl, it will sometimes happen that a great degree of constitutional irritation will attend it. So much for the symp- toms of ophthalmia, as existing in simple inflammation of the conjunctiva, without any particular modification. It will not be necessary to point out particularly the predisposing causes of this T