ON FISTULA IN ANO. <24 patient, labours under cough, dyspnoea, and whether his consti* tution is greatly impaired. No operation will avail without at- tention to the state of distant parts, and this is the' rea^n why surgeons have so often lost their reputation by performing an operation for this complaint at an improper time. You may divide the sinus, but if the fistula depends on a disordered state of distant parts, the fistula will never heal without attention to the constitution of the patient. There is considerable variety in the size and complication of fistulte; here is a preparation in ■which the sinus is confined to one side of the gut; there is another in which the gut is half surrounded, and another in which the disease completely encircles the intestine. When there is an opening on each side, it is best to perform the operation first on one side, and then on the other. Here is a preparation taken from a patient who died of this disease, which very rarely happens ; the intestines and bladder are surrounded by the fistula ; the rec- tum also is surrounded by sinuses, very high up. The fistula passed to the groin, and there.discharged itself; this is the most complicated case of fistula I have ever seen. The fistula sometimes extends to the nates, and burrows to a great distance behind the glutei muscles. Fistulae are called blind when the matter has made its way into the rectum, without making an opening exter- nally ; they are extremely difficult to treat. The medical treat- ment of fistula in ano, will depend on their cause; if they arise from costiveness, I need, not point out to you the remedies to which you should have recourse ; if from disease of the liver, give calomel and saline purges ; if they arise from disease of the chest, as hydrothorax, I scarcely know what remedy to recommend; these diseases almost always prove destructive to life. It is of great importance to give such medicines as will bring the fistula into a healthy state. With this view the balsam of copaiba may be given with advantage; if there is much irritation, give soda, which has great efficacy in diminishing the irritability of the rec- tum. Aromatic medicines should be given; especially the me- dicine which used to be called Ward’s paste, which has been very properly introduced in the last edition of the laondon Pharma- copoeia, having been found by experience to produce excellent effects in this disease. The composition of this paste is as follows: Of Pepper two drachms. Of Elicampane, and Fennel Seeds, each half an ounce. This is to be mixed up with honey, so as to form an electuary