ON THE DIFFERENT AMPUTATIONS. 448 chances are, that the disease would again return in that part, and render another operation necessary. In the operation above the knee, be careful not to make your circular incision through the integuments lower than an inch and a half above the pa- tella. Well, gentlemen, after having made the incision through the integuments, and dissected them back as far as may be thought necessary for the purpose of covering the stump, you are then to cut through the superficial set of muscles. In dividing these muscles is the grand circumstance to be attended to in this ope- ration ; and which circumstance is, to divide the muscles imme- diately surrounding the bone at least two inches higher up than the spot at which you commenced your incision through the superficial set of muscles ; this will prevent the formation of a conical stump. The reason is obvious ; the external muscles being cut longer than the deep-seated, an allowance is made for their retracting ; when, therefore, they are drawn up to their fullest extent, they are then of the same length as the deep- seated muscles ; thus the end of the bone, and consequently the entire stump will present to you a flat surface. You will pro- bably ask, why do not the deep-seated muscles retract too 1 The answer is, they cannot, from their intimate connexion with, and attachment to, the bone. The principle in this operation is to have the muscles the same length as the bone, without the neces- sity of applying a bandage. In dressing this stump, it is generally advbable to apply a roller next to the skin, in consequence of the spaces which exist between the muscles at the end of the stump ; the ligaments are then to be placed at the most depending part, and straps of ad- nesive plaister put on in the same manner as for amputation be- ow the knee. In this operation it is generally necessary to tie three arteries —the femoral, the profunda, and that branch which usually runs either in or by the sciatic nerve, for the purpose of securing it, and the application of a ligature here requires considerable care, for the want of which I have in two instances known a ligature o have been put upon the sciatic nerve itself. In the first case t was not attended by any evil consequences ; but, in the second, violent spasms came on in the part; they were afterwards diffused throughout the body, and ultimately proved de.structive to life. It should be equally vour ob’cct to heal this stump by the