225 ON HERNIA, cended into the scrotum : but that he had worn a truss for a number of years, and that it had become gradually reduced in size. This hernia was eventually reduced, though with great difSculty, In general, if the patient’s age exceed forty years, 1 do not promise a cure by the wearing of a truss. When a truss has been worn for some time, the effect upon the hernial sac is, that it falls into folds by the action of the cre- master, resembling the appearance of the stomach after death, when it has undergone contraction. Here is a specimen on the table, which will show you this effect of the truss upon the her- nial sac. It sometimes happens, when a hernia is cured by the wearing of a truss, that water forms beneath the part at which adhesion takes place, producing hydrocele of a particular kind. The fluid in this case is clear as water, and has not the com- mon character of serum. Of Irredocible Hernia. Hernia becomes irreducible from various causes; the most common cause is, the adhesion of omentum or intestine to the interior of the hernial bag. Here is a preparation, showing how completely a hernia is ren- dered irreducible by the adhesion of omentum to the interior of the sac. A second cause is the growth of omentum or mesentery, without adhesion, from the accumulation of adeps, which renders it impossible to return the hernia into the cavity of the abdomen. A third cause is the formation of a membranous band, produced by inflammation across the sac, by which the omentum and intes- tine become entangled, and the return of the protruded parts is prevented. Op the Treatment op Irreducible Hernia, \\ ith respect to the treatment of irreducible scrotal hernia, you must advise the patient to wear a simple suspensory ban- dage, without which he would be exposed to considerable dan- ger, from the possibility of the hernia bursting, if he should re- ceive a blow on the part. Mr. Norris had a patient whose’ hernia suddenly burst, in consequence of his striking his scrotum against a post, while he was walking in the streets of London. The hernia was returned, but the patient soon died. I knew a man with irreducible hernia, who met with a similar accident, in consequence of his falling from a ladder upon the edge of a pail. The omentum could not be returned into the cavity of the abdomen, and it was found, upon examination of the body after death, that the intestine# were wounded.