DISLOCATIONS OF THE FINGERS AND TOES. 637 nerves and blood-vessels, by dividing- the muscles or ligaments. A compound dislocation of this bone is sometimes produced by the bursting of guns; but, in these cases, you can easily return it to its natuaal situation : and, if the flexor tendon should have escaped unhurt, the person may recover useful motion of the part. You should bring the integuments together as nicely as you can, confine them by a suture, if necessary, and over this put a piece of lint dipped in blood, which is the best application; if neces- sary, you must apply a poultice, but where the bruise has not been very considerable, it will heal by the adhesive process. A case of this kind occurred a short time since, from the. explosion of a powder-flask, in the hand of a young gentleman, at Brent- ford; the thumb was only connected to the hand by the tendons of the long extensor and flexor; it. was treated in the way I have just recommended, and passive motion employed at the end of a fortnight, by which the motion of the joint was so restored as to enable him to write without any inconvenience. . Dislocation of the first Phalanx.-—In the simple dislocation of this bone, you will find it thrown back upon the metacarpal bone, where It forms a projection; and the lower part of the metacarpal bone projects inwards, towards the palm of the hand. The thumb may be brought towards the fingers, but the flexion and exten- sion, which are performed between the metacarpal bone and the first phalanx, are prevented by the dislocation. Here also the direction in which the extension is to be made must be attended to; the thumb should be bent towards the palm, in order to relax the flexor muscles, and the mode of applying the extending frfrce is as follows, which may be generally adopted in disloca- [ tions of the toes, thumb, and fingers:—In order to relax the parts I as much as possible, the hand should be soaked for a considera- ble time in warm water, a piece of welted wash-leather is to be as closely wrapped round the first phalanx as possible; a tape, about two yards in length, should be fastened on the leather with a knot which will not slip, such as the sailors call the clove hitch. An assistant should now firmly press on the metacarpal bone, by putting his middle and first fingers between the fore-finger and thumb of the patient, and thus make counter-extension, whilst the surgeon, assisted by others, draws the first phalanx from the metacarpal bone, inclining it at the same time a little towards the palm of the hand. If the efforts made in this way, after h.iving been continued ten or fifteen minutes, should not succeed, then it will be neccs.sary to adr pt another plan, which is this : in