ON GANGRENE 111 never be recovered, because living blood can never again circu- late in them. The subject next in order is the treatment of gangrene; but as I intend to occupy a little of your time this evening by a very curious experiment, I shall defer tlie consideration of that sub- ject to the next lecture. I have something to say to you,-also, gentlemen, on another subject. In the course of these lectures I have always considered it my duty to direct your attention to what is going fonvard in the hospitals, and to illustrate every subject, as far as possible, by a reference to cases which are ac- tually under your inspection. A short time ago, I amputated a limb in the other hospital, in a case of aneurism, which is extremely curious, and to which I am not sure that there ever has been a parallel. Some months ago, a man underwent the operation for aneurism ; the femoral artery was tied; shortly after, the pulsation disappeared, and he was soon after supposed to be cured of the aneurism, and dis- charged. He returned to his work ; but soon after a swelling arose in the ham, without pulsation. The swelling subsided in consequence of rest; but a few weeks ago, while the man was at labour, the swelling returned with great pain, which increased during the time he was in the hospital; and, as there was no prospect of his recovering a useful limb, amputation was resorted to. In this case I found the femoral artery below the place to which the ligature had been applied was conveying blood. As it was impossible that the femoral artery could be pervious, the blood must have been conveyed by anastoihosis. It does now and then happen, that a blood vessel will arise from the artery just above the ligature, and pass into the artery immediately below the ligature ; by which means the circulation is produced. There is a beautiful specimen in the collection, where the brachial artery had been tied, and blood was conveyed by a vessel not more than three inches in length, from the part jnst above to the part just below the ligature. This now and then occurs after the operation for aneurism, anastomosis happening where it is not usually found, from a short vessel running from one portion of the artery to the other. The other subject, to which I mean to call your attention, is the experiment which I madconan animal last Friday, in the other hospital. This experiment, gentlemen, delighted me; I do not know that I have ever experienced greater pleasure in my iifo