467 ENLARGEMENT OF THE TONSILS. quence what particular tonic you employ, should there be any objection to those I have just mentioned. Indeed, in very deli- cate children you will find it prudent to often vary the medicine ; and a very beneficial one may be found composed of two grains of rhubarb and five grains of carbonate of iron. Your own judg- ment will direct you in what manner the medicines should be regulated. Local Thkatment of ENLAnoFC Tonsil Glanls. The application of the nitrate of silver will often succeed in getting rid of these tumours ; you are to press down the tongue with one finger, then holding the nitrate of silver in its ivory case, between the finger and tliumb of the other' hand, gently apply it to the surface of the swelling; the application may be repeated, if necessary : where the caustic is applied, the part will soon become white, and scale off. A succession of these, produced by a succession of applications, will often effect a cure. The sulphate of copper is sometimes used instead of the nitrate of silver, and succeeds very well. Alum is likewise a good application, but it requires to be applied a greater number of times than the lunar caustic; where, therefore, no inconveni- ence would arise to the patient or practitioner from distant residence, or other circumstances, it may be used with advantage ; and, as an internal remedy, a medicine formed of the extracts of stramonium and conium ; but 1 have never known it prove effec- tual, at least not entirely so. Well, then, when they are too large to admit of cure, by the plans already described to you, or when they resist the proposed methods, you are to remove them by ligature ; it is easily applied, and may be done by first passing it through the eye of a probe, then carrying it over the tonsil, and bringing it out below ; tie it in fiont of the diseased gland ; you must of course previously give to your probe the re- quisite curv^ : if your finger should not be sufficiently long to make the knot, you should then use what is called the tonsil iron, an instrument well adapted loi the purpose, and would do much better for performing the operation altogether than either the probe or finger. 'I'he operation occasions very little pain or inconvenience. 1 have had a child, seven years of age, come to my house, have a ligature thus applied, and afterwards walk back to Islington. If the tumour is not of that form which will admit of a ligature