ON warts. 556 liquors, in order to support her declining strength ; the disease thus occurring in a constitution destroyed by irregularity of ha- bits, the patient has but a very slight chance of recovery. If one of these miserable cases could be depicted from the pulpit, as an illustration of the evil effects of a vicious and intemperate course of life, it would, I think, strike the mind with more terror than all the preaching in the world. The iiTitable state of the patient, in which the disease occurs, leads to the destruction of life, and thus it is that such a great number perish. If 1 said that I saw twenty of these cases in a year, 1 should not exaggerate, ^feglecied chancres and injured constitutions lead to this most frightful dis- ease. The treatment is the same as for males. Warts. Warts were formerly considered as syphilitic, but you are to learn that they are nothing but a local disease, requiring noth- ing but local means for their cure. Yet, when 1 say local, I must observe that they frequently secrete a matter which is able to produce a similar disease in others. I have known two instances of this. The one occurred in a Mr. Guller, dresser to Mr. Chand- ler. Mr, Chandler removed some warts, which were of a very large size, from a patient in this hospital, and as he was leturn- ing the knife, this gentleman put his hand forwards, and it en- tered just under the thumb nail. He left town for the south- western part of England; in a little time, he had an irritation about the nail, and a wart grew out from the spot where ilie puncture had been made. Being in practice, this was a disa- greeable circumstance; it was frequently destroyed, but at each time it grew again. Afterwards he came to town, when he called on me, and told me the circumstance. I advised him to put on a blister, for the purpose of bringing away the nail, and, then, that the wart might be removed. He applied a blistei, and rea- dily removed the nail, but it also brought away the wart, and it never grew again. The other case of warts generating them- selves was told me by a gentleman in Sussex. He was called to attend a lady in labour ; he felt something in the vagina, which appeared unintelligible, and, on examination, found it to be a crop of warts. He delivered her, but did not say any thing about the warts to the lady. In conversation with the husband, he told him that his lady had a number of warts. The gentleman stated, that at the time he was married he had a wart on the penis, and he had no doubt but that he communicated