609 ON VERTEBRAL DISEASES. derangement of the general health, and the depression of mind which arises from long confinement. If the disease has continued for any length of time, it is not to be expected but that some lameness will remain. Of Vertebral Diseases. A disease, similar to the disease in the joints^ occasionally occurs in the spine, sometimes beginning in the vertebral sub- stance, sometimes in the bone itself. The disease of the vertebral substance has been accurately described by Mr. Pott, and I recommend you to consult his pamphlet, which contains a very admirable history of this disease. It is manifested in the fol- lowing manner:—The child complains of a fixed pain in the spine ; the pain, however, is not confined to the spine, but it extends down on each side, in the direction of the nerves, arising from the spinal marrow. There are weakness and pain in the back; pain in the sides, more on one side than on the other ; and the nerves arising from the spinal marrow are inflamed in consequence of the pressure on the membrane of the spinal marrow. After a little time, there is a projection of the spine backwards, one, two, or three, of the spinous processes projecting more than the others. It usually happens, that the lower extremities become affected > sensibility is diminished, and the muscles lose, a portion of their voluntary power. Thus, a child aff'ected with this disease, is in the constant habit of falling, in consequence of a want of due power in the muscles. There is this difference between paralysis and the effect on the lower extremities from this disease, that, in the former case, all action of the muscles is suspended ; in the latter, there is diminished power and spasmodic contraction of the muscles. The patient sits with his legs drawn under him, and his heels towards the nates; and there are, besides, spasmodic twitchings of the limbs. If the lumbar or dorsal vertebra be affected, there will be difficulty in discharging the urine, and the faeces will at length pass off involuntarily. When the disease is in the neck, the hea/l is the only part of the body, except the vital organs, which retains its power; volition is lost in all the parU of the body below the seat of the disease, and the patient is reduced to the most abject slate of helplessness. The disease of the spine is very apt to produce abscesses, in the form of psoas anrl lumbar absccssr.-s. I hcse abscesses frequently occasion a very considerable loss of substance, as you will have an opportu- inity of observing in the preparations which 1 shall send round. On dissection, the vertebrsc arc found to be sometiiues wholly