ON THE CURE OF ANEURISM. 170 in this branch of surgery. But for Mr. John Hunter, we might still have the same difficulties to encounter, and patients labour- ing under this disease might still have been exposed to the same danger. Mr. Hunter being an excellent physiologist, and an admir- able anatomist, applied the powers of his active and inquiringmind to this subject. He said, “ I have frequently tied the femo- ral artery in animals, without injury ; why should not I put a li- gature on the artery, in the same way, in the human subject V’ It is right, however, to observe that Mr. Hunter was led to this train of thought by having under his care a case of popliteal aneurism, of such extent as to have reached the tendon of the triceps, so that there wais no room for the application of a ligature between the aneurismal sac and the tendon. He determined, therefore, to make the experiment of tying the femoral artery, rather than amputate the limb. The first operation was not, as might be expected, performed in the very best manner. He was not content with a single ligature, but applied several, which were left hanging out of the wound, and which were afterwards discharged by a process of ulceration. Yet under all these dis- advantages, the patient recovered, and lived rather more than twelve months after the operation. On dissection, it was found that the femoral artery was obliterated as far as the arteria pro- funda. Since Mr. Hunter’s time, several slight alterations have been made in the operation for popliteal aneurism, as every sur- geon has his whim ; but the principle established by Mr. Hunter remains the same, and that great surgeon has the undoubted merit of having substituted a simple and beautiful operation for one of very considerable difficulty and danger, I shall proceed to point out to you the several steps of the operation for tying the femoral artery in cases of popliteal aneurism. IMr. Hunter used to make the incision in the middle of the thigh, but experience has shown that it is better to make it one-third of the space downwards from the ilium to the internal condyle of the os femoris, because the artery is more deeply seated in the middle of the thigh than it is higher up ; and there are, besides many anastomosing vessels in the former situation. There are four steps in this operation; first, an incision through the skin, which lays bare the sai torius muscle; secondly, the division is to be continued along the inner edge of the sartorius, exposing the sheath of the femoral artery ; thirdly, the incision through the sheath; and fourthly, the put-