ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 391 had been divided, and from thence the violent bleeding arose. Instead of the vessels being of great sizo which feed these tumours, it is found, upon dissection, that they are merely small branches from the neighbouring cellular tissues ; this, then, is what 1 name the simple chronic tumour of the breast. It now and then oc- curs that the breast as well as other parts of the body is attacked by Adipose Tumours, and some of them have been known to ac- quire enormous dimensions. I have myself removed one from the breast of a woman which weighed fourteen pounds ten ounces, 'i'his is the tumour [the professor here put his hand upon a pre- paration which stood upon the table before him], and although it may appear to you an operation of the most formidable nature, yet it was not so ; there was no risk attending it, and the only peculiarity which existed was, that the veins were much larger than in ordinary tumours of the breast. The next tumour which 1 shall describe is very common in young people, and I have called it The Ihhitable Tumour of the Breast. Like the simple chronic tumour, it generally occurs in persona Irom fifteen to twenty-five years of age. These young persons are of sansfuineous temperament, and often of lovely aspect. The parents, in this case, like the former, show the greatest solicitude for their daughter’s welfare, and anxiously inquire of you if the disease be not cancerous? You endeavour to soothe their minds by representing to them its harmless, inoffensive nature, at the same time telling them that cancer does not attack individuals so young or so healthy as their daughter. Upon the breast being bared, and upon examining it, the moment you touch the tumour you will find that the patient will instantly shrink from you, and will be so alive to the most trifling pain that she may be com- pared to a sensitive plant. If you examine the tumour other- wise than with gentleness, she will experience pain for hours, and even days afterwards, so exquisitely tender is this irritable swell- ing. Although it is painful in common, yet the tenderness and pain immediately before the period of menstruating are almost incredible; the pain extends from the breast to the arm on the affected side, and down to the fingers’ ends, and has even been known to affect the sight. There is no necessity for alarm in these cases; the cause of the disease is easily ascertained : it merely arises from functional derangement. I'here is no visce- ral disorganization and to afford relief, you have merely to adopt