603 ON VIRULENT GONORRIICEA. water is often useful, but it must be ascertained whether it pro- duces irritability of the bladder; for, in some persons, it increases instead of diminishing, irritability. If it increases very much the inclination to make water, it should not be persisted in ; if it does not produce this effect, it is a very excellent diluent. The penis should be suffered to hang for a considerable time in warm water, which will relieve the inflammation, and produce nearly all the good of a warm bath. When the ardor urinm and pain from chordee is very severe, twenty drops of the liquor, potass速, with from three to five grains of the extract of conium, in the mistura camphorata, may be given with considerable advantage. This is the plan which you should pursue during the first week. You may then apply lint dipped in the liquor, plumbi subacetatis dilutus, to the part. Do not use an injection in the first instance, but pursue the plan I have pointed out to you during the first ten days. At the end of this time, when the inflammation has in a great degree subsided, you may begin by giving the patient the balsamum copaib速. An ounce of the balsam may be mixed with an ounce of the mucilage of acacia, and four ounces of the mistura camphorata, and a table-spoonful given morning and evening. Having given this mixture for two days, the discharge will be very considerably diminished, and you may then order an injection of the liquor, plumbi subacetatis dilutus. This is the mode, gentlemen, in which gonorrhoea, as far as I know, is to be cured in the safest and most expeditious manner. In the third week I continue to give the balsamum copaib速 ; and the best injection which can then be employed, is the liquor, plumbi subacetatis dilutus, with the sulphate of zinc. R. Sulphaiis zinci, gr. vj. Liq. plumbi subacet. diluti, ^iv. By this plan you will generally succeed in curing a gonor- rhoea safely and expeditiously. If, instead of using an injection, you suffer the discharge to run on, week after week, you will be almost sure to lay the foundation of stricture. If a patient apply to you for a second or third clap, you will not proceed in this way, but give him the balsam of capivi im- mediately, which will, in general, pul a speedy stop to the dis- charge. The inflammation of a second clap is comparatively slight, and, in general, it will only be necessary to give the bal- sam copaib速 for a week, and then begin with the injection of the liquor, plumbi subacetatis dilutus, and the sulphate of zinc.