ON FRACTURES OT THE SKULL. 141 than the middle; and the external character of the contusion is certainly calculated to deceive those who are unacquainted with the nature of these accidents. I have several times seen these affections; but the first case which I recollect was that of a child brought into Guy’s, who had received a severe blow on the head from a brickbat, which had been thrown at it by a man. All present were prepared for the operation, fully expecting that I sliould apply the trephine; for they felt con- vinced that there was considerable depression of bone ; and when J stated that I should not operate, they exclaimed, “ Good God ! I wonder what can be his reason.” This child, after having been freely bled and purged, in two or three days quite recovered. I have often been sent for by my dressers to these cases, and have been requested to bring my instruments with me ; but upon examination have found that there was no depression of bone, and that the uneven appearance of the scalp was produced by the causes before mentioned. It also ery often happens in f -actures of the cranium that con- siderable depression of bone will take place from the external table of the skull being driven into the diploe, and without pro- ducing the slightest injury to the internal table; do not, therefore, be precipitate in your diagnosis, nor hastily determine upon per- forming an operation, which you might afterwards have reason to repent; these fractures, however, can only occur in those of a middle age, for in the very young and in very old age, the skull is thin and without diploe. I believe in the course of my practice that I have frequently met with this accident, and we have many preparations in the museum which clearly demonstrate their true character; but the three now before me (pointing to three skulls) are, I think, quite sufficient to satisfy your minds as to the na- ture of this accident; here you see the external table has been driven in, and yet no vestige of fracture in the internal ; here is another specimen with greater depression; and the third still more than either, yet the internal plate is sound. I am not ac- qnainted with the histories of these specimens, but it is evident that the persons recovered by the re-union that has occurred be- tween the parts which were broken. Suppose you are called to a patient who has had a severe blow on the head, and that, on examining the skull you find a po'tion of bone considerably depressed. You may still find