622 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SPINE. the cervical vertebrae might happen, as the articulating processes are more oblique in them than in the other vertebr®. Disloca- tions of the spine seldom occur without a fracture of the articu- lating processes, or of the arches of the vertebrae. Whenever fracture happens, displacement is generally the immediate result, and the spinal marrow becomes compressed by the arches of the vertebrae. When the cervical and dorsal vertebrae are fractured, the spinal marrow is generally tom, but in the lumbar vertebra the medulla spinalis becomes firmer, and is not so easily lacera- ted. The symptoms produced by pressure on the spinal marrow, are a loss of sensibility and of motion in the parts supplied from that portion of the medulla below the accident. The extent of the effects of the injury must therefore depend on its approxima- tion to the brain. If the upper vertebra be injured, sensation is lost in the upper extremities; if the dorsal vertebra, or upper lumbar, the lower extremities become insensible ; and if the lumbar be injured, the faces pass involuntarily, and the urine is retained; these phenomena maybe accounted for in this way ; the nerves of volition supplying the sphincter ani are injureid, and the power of retention is lost, whilst the involuntary peris- taltic action of the intestines continues ; the nerves supplying the acceleratores urina being in part derived from the cauda equina, have their functions destroyed ; the will has no influence on the bladder, and the evacuation of the urine is prevented, being op- posed by the elasticity of the urethra. When thepatient becomes very weak, and is almost dying, the urine passes away stillati- tiously, from the elasticity of the urethra being diminished. Persons live sometimes three or four weeks after the accident, and in a case or two that I can recollect, they lived between three and four months. One man, indeed, recovered so far, that he could change his place in bed, and dress himse f, but he never recovered the use of his lower extremeties. When the injury has been received on the dorsal vertebra:, the intestines are very much distended with air, and the functions of the abdominal viscera are very much disturbed. A person having a fracture of the dorsal vertebra: commonly lives about a fortnight or three weeks. One gentleman lived rather more than nine months after the accident. But the time you may expect your patient to live will depend very much whether the injury is near or distant from the cervical veitobra:—whether the displacement is slight or otherwise, and upon the degree of injury the spinal marrow has sustained. If the cervical vertebra: be broken, death soon follows.