GONORRIUEA IN FEMALES. 641 miaation of the meatus urinarius to the bladder, and the bladder itself inflamed. There is a circumstance which I am exceedingly anxious to dwell on—I allude to a discharge from young females; and I hope there is not one here this evening but will be strongly impressed with the importance of the subject. Children from one year old, and even under, up to the age of puberty, are frequently the subject of a purulent discharge from the puden- dum, chiefly originating beneath the preputium clitoridis; the nymphae, orifice of the vagina, and the meatus urinarius, are in an inflamed state, and pour out a discharge. The bed linen and re-st of the clothes are marked by it. It now and then happens to a nervous woman, to be alarmed at such an appearance, and she suspects her child of having acted in an improper manner; and perhaps, not quite clear herself, she is more ready to suspect others, and says “ dear me (if she confesses), it is something like what I have had myself. She goes to a medical man, who may unfortunately not be aware of the nature of the complaint I am speaking of, and he says, “ Good God, your child has got the clap.” (A laugh.) A mistake of this kind, gentlemen, is no laughing matter; and though I am glad to make you smile some- times, and like to join you in your smiles, I cannot do it on the present occasion, for it is too serious a matter. I can assure you a multiturle of persons have been hanged by such a mistake. I will tell you exactly what takes place in such cases : the mo- ther goes home, and says to the child, “ Who is it that has been pl.iving with you 1 who has taken you on his knee lately?” The child innocently replies, “ No one, mother; nobody has I de- clare to you.” The mother then says, “ Oh, don’t tell me such stories ; I will flog you, if you do.” And thus the child is driven to confess what never happened, in order to save herself from being chastised. At !a.st she says, “ Such a one has taken me on his lap.” The person is r|uestioned, and firmly denies it; but •he child, owing to the mothei’s threaU, persists in what she has said. The man is brought into a Court of Justice; a surgeon, who is ignorant of the nature of the discharge I am now speaking a’fKiut, gives his evifience, and the man suffers for that which he never committed. The mother is persuaded, if there be a slight ulceration on the parts, that violence has been used, and a rape committed ; she immediately says, “ What a horrid villain must he be for forcing a child to such an unnatural crime, and com-