DISEASBS OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. 565 b stamped by a nasal voice, and the fluids which he lakes re- turns through the communication set up between the mouth and nose. It is a state, gentlemen, to which death is far preferable; therefore, do not look on syphilis as a trifling disease. The tonsil glands become affected with sores, which have exactly the character of chancre, having ragged edges, a yellow surface, and a livid colour in the surrounding part. A sense of dryness is felt in the throat, which spreads up the eustachiap tubes to the ear. ’ But still worse effects of the disease are seen on the pha- rynx, just opposite to the mouth; it is not unfrequent that ulce- ration proceeds through it, and the cellular membrane behind to the vertebr® , but the worst effects of all produced by the sy- philitic action, are found on the larynx, which require immediate attention as soon as they shew themselves; and in a short space of time, if not checked, destroy life. Attending this affection, there is always loss of the voice, so that you are obliged to put your ear to the patient’s mouth, he speaks in so low a whisper. If he has no primary symptoms of syphilis on him at the time, you are not led at first to suspect that it is syphilitic ; although, whenever a person comes to you with a loss of voice, you should always ask, how long it is since he had any sore on his yard ? What space of time has elapsed since he had syphilis?—This effect of the syphilitic disease more frequently destroys life than an,v other. Here is a specimen (exhibiting it to the class) taken from a female who died of this complaint. She was admitted into the hospital with a bronchocele; she had difficulty of breathing, and little power of utterance, which were attributed to the pressure of the tumour on the larynx. When she had been in the hospital a little time, syphilitic eruption made its appearance, by which it was discovered she had not very long ago had syphilis. Mercury was given her, but the disease had proceeded too far, and she died a few days after. On examin- ing the throat, chancres were found, one on each side of the upper part of the larynx ; there was no disease whatever of the lungs. The ulceration had proceeded to the laryngeal artery : this bad given v/ay, and part of the blood had passed into the trachea. Portions of the thyroid cartilages are sometimes ossi- fied in this disease, and coughed up. One of the cornua of thyroid cartilage was coughed up by a patient of Mr. Forster’s, at the other hospital; it was converted into bone; the patient did very well.