DISLOCATIONS OF THB HIP-JOINT. 644 unworthy of your confidence, and strike out a new path for your- eelves. Much as I respect the talents of Mr. Hey, and there is no man who thinks more highly of his zeal and acquirements than I do, yet I cannot agree with him in recommending the mode which he practised. It is true, that in a very recent dis- location, before the muscles have established their fixed contrac- tion, that extension will succeed in returning the bone, even although that extension be not made in the way most favourable for the purpose. What I have said in these lectuits has been the result of considerable experience, both in public and private practice, and in the greater number of cases the treatment has been successful, even in some, under circumstances the most un- favourable. Of the dislocation downwards, or into the foramen ovale.—The limb, in this case, is two inches longer than the other. By making pressure with the hand on the upper and inner part of the thigh, you can, in thin persons, distinctly feel the head of the thigh bone. There is a flattening of the hip on that side; the body is bent forwards, owing to the psoas magnus and iliacus internus being put upon the stretch. If you desire the patient to stand upright, you find that the knee is considerably advanced towards the trunk. It is widely separated from the other knee, and it cannot be brought to toUch it without much difficulty and pain. The foot is generally neither turned outwards or inwards, but the toes point to the ground. In this dislocation, you do not trust so much to the foot as a mark of it; the increased length of the limb, the separated knees, the bent position of the body, are such diagnostic appearances as sufficiently point out the nature of the injury. It generally happens when the thighs are widely separated from each other, that the ligamentura teres and cap- sular ligament are torn through, and the head of the bone is situated on the obdurator externus muscle, at the inner and back part of the thigh. If the accident has recently happened, the dislocation is very easily reduced. Place the patient on his back, separate the thighs as widely as possible, and place a girt between the pu- dendum and upper part of the thigh, fix the girt to the staple in the wall, then take hold of the ankle of the dislocated side, and 4raw it over the other leg, or, if the thigh be very large, behind Ihe sound limb, when the head of the bone usually slips into the ticket. Or the thigh might be secured by a bed-post being re- ceived between the pudendum and the upper part of the limb.