ON INFLAMMATION OF Tllli CONJUNCFIVA. 271) flowers, boiled so as to be rendeied extremely soft, and put into a gauze or muslin bag, which should be applied so as to make a very slight degree of pressure on the eye. If poultices are em- ployed, they should be very frequently changed, for otherwise they are very apt to confine the secretions, and rather to keep up than diminish irritation. Fomentations, however, such as I before described, are greatly preferable. Many persons prefer cold to warm applications ; if cold applications are employed, care must be taken that they do not stimulate the part. 'I’he choice of cold or warm applications should depend entirely on the feelings of the patient; if he do not find relief from warm, you should then try the eflect of cold applications. 1 have found, however, that in general moist warmth has a tendency to produce relaxation of the vessels, and to favour^the passing of the acute into the chronic stage of inflammation. Warm applications, however, must not be continued when the chronic stage has commenced, for they would then do mischief instead of good. On this account, you should observe attentively the change of the inflammation from the acute to the chronic stage, that you may alter your plan of treatment as soon as the latter stage has commenced. In the chronic stage the evacuating plan may, to a considerable extent, be laid aside ; the diet, though still not stimulating, may be more generous ; there will be no necessity for continuing the diaphoretic medicines, as the skin will gene- rally be sufficiently moist, nor will it be necessary to evacuate the bowels so freely, though attention should be paid to their due action; alterative medicines will often be found benefiicial. The local applications should be of an entirely different charac- ter ; they ought to be moderately astringent and stimulating, as your object now is to excite some degree of action in the vessels, and to get rid of their relaxation and atony, care being taken, at the same time not to stimulate the parts too much. Various col- lyria or eye-waters are used for this purpose ; all of them mode- rately astringent or stimulating ; such as the solution of alum in water, solutions of the sulphate of zinc, or the sulphate of copper, or the liquor plumb! subacetatis. These solutions should at first be very much diluted ; ten drops of the liquor plumbi subace- tatis may be added to four or six ounces of water; a grain of alum, or half a grain of the sulphate of zinc or copper, may be dissolved in an ounce of water. The solution should be gra- dually strengthened, in proportion to its action on the part and