244 os IIEHNIA. this pliin the intestine is not so liable to he wounded, and it adds exceedingly to the security of the patient; and then you pass a probe-pointed bistoury, guided on the finger, and divide the stricture, not very freely, but to a small extent; a slight mo- tion of the knife will do it. But the stricture is seldom situated at the abdominal ring. I recollect asking one of our appren- tices, last year, how many times he had seen the stricture at the abdominal ring and he told me never. My experience does not exactly coincide with this j but I believe the stricture is never situated in that part but in old and large hernite ; and if a man sits down to the operation, under the supposition that it is there, he will be likely to destroy the life of the patient: I will tell you what he would do, he would pass the instrument on the finger up to the abdominal ring, and divide it; then he would endeavour to push the intestine into the abdomen, but it would return as often as the attempt was made ; and not conceiving the stricture at any other part, his attempts would be repeated, and the force employed would most probably rupture the intestine. No, gen- tlemen, the stricture is usually situated at the upper part of the hernia, just opposite to the tendon of the transversalis muscle, or else in the hernial sac itself; and what you have to do is, to slit up the abdominal ring, to hook up the abdominal muscles and draw them upwards towards the abdomen ; then to pull down the hernial sac ; by this means you expose the stricture, and render the operation more safe to the patient. The plan that used to be adopted was, to introduce the finger high up into the hernial sac, with the knife on it, and thus divide the stricture; but in this way the danger is increased, as the parts are concealed from view. The probe-pointed bistoury is blunt to the extent of a quarter of an inch, sharp for half an inch, and then blunt again, so that you introduce it on a director or finger, and divide the stricture with- out fear of cutting too much. The stricture being divided, you next return the intestine ; the intestine is to be returned before the omentum. You should always at this stage introduce a finger, to see whether the parts be freely returned or not, and are not compressed at the place where the stricture was situated ; another advice that I will give you is, if there be any air in the intestines projecting above the stricture, bring it down to the lower part, and by this means they will be more easily re- turned. The intestines should be returned piece-meal to the ca- vity of the abdomen, and then the omentum should succeed it.