301 ON HUMOURS OF THE EYE, LECTURE XXXV. On the Humours of the Eye, In the preceding lectures, gentlemen, I have described the affec- tions of the coats of the eye ; this evening 1 shall proceed to treat of those of the humours of the eye. Very little, however, can be said of the aqueous and vitreous humours, as most of the diseases to which the humours are subject, attack the crystalline lens, or its capsule, therefore, I shall chieBy direct your attention to them. Hydrophthalmia. The aqueous humour is sometimes the subject Of an accumulation which is known by the name name of hydrophthalmia, or dropsy of the eye ; and consists in an increased secretion of this humour. The symptoms of this complaint are—that the eye becomes more distended than natural; the cornea widened ; the sclerotic coat attached to the cornea has a blue tint or cast; the sight is affect- ed ; the motions of the iris impaired ; and the disease at last ter- minates in amaurosis. On what this complaint depends, it would be difficult to say ; it is generally preceded by chronic ophthalmia. Treatmuit.—The remedies recommended for this complaint are various, of the most opposite kind, and have been tried gene- rally without any good effect. Puncturing the cornea, at a short distance from the sclerotic, has been tried, and it is said with success. I have, however, seen several cases of this affec- tion, and no benefit whatever was derived from any means that were employed. The vitreous humour is occasionally affected. There is some- times a deficiency of this humour, arising from part of it being Jost in the course of an operation ; and the quantity lost is often 80 considerable, that the part supported by the aqueous humour is not sufficiently firm to keep up the natural roundness and plumpness of the eye. The medium of refracting the rays of light is destroyed, the sight becomes impaired, and glasses afford no relief. There is the tremulous iris after couching, arising from the same cause as the preceding affection. Another change which takes place in the vitreous humour is that known by tlie name of