ON ANEURISM OF THE AORTA. 168 neck, wrote to me to say that he had a case of aneurism above the clavicle, and entertained some thoughts of tying the subclavian artery for it, and asked me some question relative to it, to which I returned an answer, and said to him. Take care, do not deceive yourself, for what often appear to be aneurisms of the subclavian artery, are really aneurisms of the aorta. The operation was not performed. (It is mentioned in Mr. Burn’s work.) The patient afterwards died, and on examination it was found, that it was an aneurism of the aorta; therefore I mention this to put you on your guard, for after what you have lately seen at Guy’s Hospital, don’t think the operation an easy one, and that it would add greatly to your credit to perform it. You might very easily mis- take aneurism of the aorta for aneurism of the carotid or subcla- vian arteries, Anewrism op the Arteria Innominata These cases in general do not allow of an operation being per- formed ; there is no room for the ligature. Dr. IMott, of Ame- rica, has put a ligature on this vessel; and for a time the patient appeared to be doing well; but he afterwards died. The opera- tion did him much credit; few would have dared to perform it; and those who might have dared, probably would not have known how. Dr. Molt is an excellent anatomist, and an indus- trious man. Aneurism of the Descending Aorta. When the descending aorta is the subject of aneurism, in its course through the posterior mediastinum, it very often breaks into the oesophagus, as in the preparation before me (pointing to one on the table), and a similar instance of which may,be seen in the museum at the other hospital; when an aneurism presses on the oesophagus, adhesion of the coat of the sac to the oesophagus takes place ; and afterwards an opening between the aneurismal bag and guWet is formed ; the patient vomits a considerable quan- tity of blood, and soon dies. I have seen three instances of this kind of aneurism in persons who have died of some other com- plaint. Aneurism of the Abdominal Aorta. When the aneurism is situated above the coeliac artery, a pul- sation may be distinctly felt at the scrobiculus cordis ; and a s}mp- tom which distinguishes this complaint is, that the pressure on the stomach caused by the aneurismal bag produces nausea and vo- miting, and small quantities of food are immediately rejected.