ON CALCULI IN THE UJIETHRA, S63 a small quantity of soda or potass should be pul in his diluted drink ; sum mav also be added, as it is believed to have the power of soothing the parts, and diminishing the irritating quality of the urine. Whether it have that effect or not is doubtful; but it is generally believed to have some influence in this way. 'Jhe danger after the operation for stone is, that of peritoneal inflam- mation. On the day after the operation, therefore, you should put your hand on the lower part of the patient’s abdomen, and inquire whether he feels any pain. If there is any tenderness of the peritoneum, you should apply leeches to the abdomen, and foment it; it will be often necessary to take away blood, and to put the patient in a warm bath, if the symptoms should be ur- gent; vomiting is a frequent symptom, when the abdomen of the patient is in a tense state. The subsequent treatment will con- sist in giving considerable doses of the submuriate of mercury. Calomel is a very useful medicine in this case, not only as a pur- gative, but because, combined with opium, it diminishes irrita- bility, and lessens the disposition to inflammation in the abdomen. Purgatives and anodyne injections should also be administered. The time in which a patient recovers is generally from seventeen to twenty-one days, under favourable circumstances. It is some- times longer when the perinaeum is deep ; on the other hand, I have known a patient to be well in a fortnight after the operation. The urine frequently passes in the right course in about twenty- four hours after the operation ; sometimes, however, not till after three or four days; this will depend, in a great measure, on the size of the stone. In general, the patient has a rigor, when the urine returns to its natural course ; you need not, therefore, be alarmed at this symptom. On Calculi in the Uuethiia. When a stone is lodged in the urethra, it is found in three situations; I will endeavour to explain to you the difference of treatment required, according to the situation in which the stone IS found. When you find a stone in the urethra, it will be in vain to attempt to extract it with the forceps ; even when it is felt very near the orifice of the urethra, or when you can see it by opening the orifice, you can very rarely succeed in extracting it with the forceps. There are three situations in which a stone is ound lodged in the urethra ; first, in the perineum; secondly, opposite the scrotum ; and, thirdly, opposite the fraenum. When it U lodged in the perineum, and the patient is labouring under