180 OPERATION FOR POPLITEAL ANEURISM, ensues from the retraction of the vessel, which had not taken place before, I had a case in the other hospital, which was going on well to the fifteenth day ; the patient was lying on the bed, a sudden rush of blood occurred, and had there not been a dresser in the room at the time, he must have died: ligatures were applied a second time. If an artery is whole when the ligatures are applied, separate it from the cellular membrane sufficiently to allow of retraction: but if the artery is divided, as after amputation, there will be no occasion, as the vessel has already retracted before the ligature is applied, and this is the reason that there is less danger from hemorrhage when one liga- ture only is applied, than when there are two. But this opera- tion led to another dangerous consequence—there was the danger of the slipping of the knot. Mr. Cline, senior, in the operation for popliteal aneurism, put on two ligatures, and whilst the dresser was sitting by the patient, hemorrhage came on ; the tourniquet was instantly applied, and Mr. Cline sent for ; when he came, on looking into the wound, he saw one of the ligatures loose, and floating in the blood. On examination, he found that the ligature had escaped from the upper part of the artery, and that the lower one had nearly slipped. He imme- diately applied two fresh ligatures. Therefore there is the danger of the knot slipping when there are two ligatures used; and on this account it has been recommended that a needle should be put through the artery, with a fine ligature in it, as by this means the danger from hemorrhage would be prevented. It was found by I)r. Jones, who has written an excellent work on the methods nature adopts in restraining hemorrhage, that if fine ligatures were applied on arteries, they would cut through the internal coat, and leave the external undivided; the elastic coat would remain whole. He tried experiments on animals, and from these he learnt that, when fine ligatures are applied, inflam- mation takes place, and the adhesive process is, in a very short time, produced, by which means the canal becomes obstructed; he therefore recommended that fine ligatures should be applied, only for a few hours, and then removed. In consequence of this, I adopted the plan in the case from which I took this specimen (pointing to one on the table), in order to see if it would succeed ; it has been tried in the following cases, and is an operation that ought not to be performed. In the first place, a fine ligature was placed on the femoral artery.