ON SYPHILITIC BUBO. 559 fwelling be in the lower row of the glands. When you are called on to treat a syphilitic bubo, you order the patient to take five grains of blue pill, combined with a quarter of a grain of opium, night and morning, with the same view as you give it in the chancre; the opium subdues the disposition to an irritable action being setup in the constitution by the mercury; and, when it is given in conjunction with the blue pill, you seldom have those dire effects from the syphilitic disease as when the mercury is given alone. Therefore, you will give the blue pill combined with opium. If you find the pain in the evening not subdued, you may give ten grains of the blue pill at night, and five in the morning. But, at the same time that you employ constitutional remedies, local means should not be neglected; evaporating lotions should be applied to the part, a bandage should be put round the waist, and a linen, wetted with a lotion, composed of an ounce of spirits of wine, to five ounces of water, should be kept to the swelling, and fastened by tape to the bandage. But, gentlemen, it sometimes happens, notwith- standing the means that you employ, the pain, swelling, and the disposition of the gland to suppurate, increase; this will be known by sharp pains darting through the part, and a pulsating feel in it; for, when these occur, the suppurative process has generally commenced; you then apply evaporating lotions and leeches, give active purges, and omit the blue pill, or else you will make tbe bubo suppurate. Mercury, (as you know) has the effect of hastening common inflammation, when it occurs in any part of the body to suppuration ; therefore, it is wrong when any inflammatory disposition exists in the bubo to continue the mercury, for you will most probably induce suppuration, when you might have prevented it. Under these circumstances, it is right to employ lotions and leeches, and purge the patient. The best purges you can give are the mercurial, the submuriate of mercury combined with jalap : by this plan of treatment you get rid of the disposition to inflammation, whereas, if you continue the mercury, you will hurry the bubo into the suppurative process. When the pain in the part is subdued, you must return to the first treatment, which will correct the venereal action. It may be said in opposition to this, that you give mercury to prevent in- flammation of the eye, as in irriiis : this is true, but it is not de- sirable, even in that complaint, to affect the mouth to any degree ; it IS not that of mercurial influence which will cure the eye, for