ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION—API EARANCES. 43 put three strips of adhesive plaister over the wound, and one round the stump, to keep the ends of the plaister in their place. It is curious to see the difference between the mode of dressing stumps now, and that adopted a few years ago. The old prac- tice was, after the adhesive plaister had been applied, to put some lint, then plaister again, after that tow, and, lastly; over the whole a cap of flannel. If a surgeon were to do this now, he would be laughed out of the operating theatre, and very deser- vedly too, because he would prevent the succesg of the adhesive process hy unduly heating the limb. All that is necessary to do, is to appl}' three strips of adhesive plaister over the wound, and one circular piece ; if the weather be hot, to apply the spirit of w-ine and water lotion, and if it be cool to keep the limb quiet. The object is to keep down the inflammation to the adhesive stage ; if it goes beyond this, suppuration will be the result. The last circumstance necessary to mention, is the impropriety of dressing the stump too early ; a person anxious to see whether a union has taken place, removes the plaisters in two or three days : he who does this overlooks the object in view, and must be shocked, when he looks at the stump, to see, that by the early removal of the plaisters, he has destroyed all that nature had done. All you ought to do is, in four days after the operation, to remove one strip of plaister, for the purpose of letting out any matter which might have collected. In six or eight days after the operation, it will be proper to dress the stump ; but to do it before would be absurd. The treatment which is applicable to stumps is proper also for common wounds. The adhesive process is useful in the formation of cysts. Balls encysted have been known to remain in the body for many years. Morgagni, if I recollect aright, mentions a case where a ball lodged in a cyst in the lungs for a considerable space of time. If the ball be not encysted, it travels, and absorption of the parts through which it passes takes place. A few days ago, a gentleman called on me, who had formerly received a wound above the zygomatic arch from a ball ; he now had a swelling on the side of his face. I asked him whether he thought it contained the ball 1 to which he replied, no ; upon cutting on it, however, I found it was the ball by which he had been wounded some years before. It had travelled beneath the zygoma to the middle of the cheek, on the •urface of the parotid gland, from whence I removed it. Per-