552 ON IRRITABLE CHANCRE. round the penis, just behind the corona grlandis, strangulating H in the same way as the intestine in hernia. The object in your treatment should be to reduce the strangulated part as quickiv as possible : all other means are improper ; the application of cold is absurd ; you merely lose time by employing it—it is a vain and useless mode of procedure. The proper plan for you to pursue is this : you see the penis greatly distended with blood ; there- fore, take hold of the glands between your fingers, and endea- vour to empty the vessels by means of gentle pressure. When you have done this for a few minutes, you endeavour to reduce it by pushing the glands back, and, at the same time, taking hold of the skin of the penis, and drawing it forwards. By this plan you will generally succeed, if you see the case a short time after it has happened; but if the paraphymosis has existed for some days, it will be wrong to attempt reduction by pressure on the glans. You should then divide the strictured part with a bis- toury. This you do by separating the skin on each side as much as you can from the stricture ; you then insert a director under it, and with a sharp-pointed bistoury divide the stricture, which will allow the skin readily to be drawn over the penis. After the pa- raphymosis has been reduced, poultices must be applied to the part. It is sometimes necessary to remove a portion of the pre- puce by circumcision : in cases of ph)unosis, where the prepuce is naturally long, and only a small division of the skin is required to allow it being drawn back, this operation is preferable to the one which I before described. Having spoken of the common consequences of chancre, I shall now treat of the Irhitaele and Si.oughino Chancre. Every now and then a chancre becomes irritable, from causes already pointed out. Directly you see a chancre assume an irri- table character, desist from the use of mercury. To know when to stop the mercury is the great secret in the treatment of the ve- nereal disease. It is in consequence of mercury being given in this state to the patient, that it does so much harm, producing those sloughing chancres that not unfrequently destroy life. Thus, when a sore becomes irritable under the use of mercury, and the inflammation extends, lay it aside, and have recourse to simple applications, such as poppy fomentations and poultices, to lessen the irritation. After you have purged the patient, give opium combined with saline mixture j as good a medicine as you can