ON’ HERNIA. 23T been placed flat on a board, and snow or ice has been applied ; cimediately they have become easy, and in a short time the her- nia returned ; '‘berefore, the application of ice is useful in two points of view, /t happens, however, that ice cannot always be procured ; particularly in the country, and the substances which you will use as substitutes are the nitrate of potash, and muriate of ammonia ; these are to be mixed together, and about a table- spoonful is to be put into a pint of water; this will produce a degree of cold equal to 26 deg. Fahr., six degrees below the freezing point; if you breathe on a vessel containing this mixture, the halitus will be converted to ice ; a greater degree of cold than this even might be obtained by the addition of more nitrate of potash and sal ammoniac ; as low as 20 deg. Fahr., twelve de- grees below the freezing point; the only objection to this is, that it does not retain its cold, but requires to be' often repeated. Linen, wetted with this mixture, spread over a part produces a considerable degree of cold. When ice is employed, it should be put into a bladder and broken into small pieces; it should be half filled, and the part completely enveloped in it; if it is put into linen, there is danger of some escaping, and destroying the life of the parts on which it goes. A case of this kind once hap- pened in this hospital. Another means that has been used, and the most successful of all is the tobacco enema j it is the most powerful agent we possess ; take one drachm of the tobacco, and add a pint of boiling water, let the infusion remain about a quarter of an hour and then strain ; use only half at once to begin with, for though some persons might bear the whole and even more, yet there are others who cannot bear the least thing. The effects of this remedy is to quicken the pulse, and also to make it small; the skin becomes cold and pallid, and there is extreme relaxation of the muscles. A case of umbilical hernia that I saw with a surgeon in the neighbourhood of London, was diminished under the use of the tobacco enema, and, on the application of the hand it was easily returned, though it had previously resisted the taxis. The effect of the tobacco enema in hernia depends much upon whether the hernia is situated near muscle or tendon ; if it is surrounded by the fonner the effect will be considerable and instantaneous. In femoral hernia, which is covered before by a strong fascia, and where there is a strong bone resting against it posteriorly, the tobacco has not the same effect as in umbilical or inguinal hot-