ON BURNS AND SCALDS. ■ 681 cility is considered by him to be permanent. When consulted by such a person you must not try to laugh him out of it, but tell him that it is not uncommon, but that it is necessary that he should promise you to abstain from the attempt for three or four days, or until he has taken all the pills which you will give him. These may be made of some harmless material, and that if he will observe what he has promised, he is sure to get quite well. He takes two or three pills, but the very promise he has made, and the impression made on his mind by the promise, induces him to do the very contrary, and it seldom happens that he can return with any complaint. On Burns and Scalds. Burns and scalds produce three different effects, vesication, desquamation, and gangrene. If called in when a vetication only is produced, there is no danger, although the vesicles be nume- rous and extensive. The object is to preserve them from bursting, and therefore do not open them on any account, but allow the serum to accumulate in them until a new cuticle is produced ; the serum escapes, and there is no further mischief. But if you open them, there is a constitutional effort produced, which is Sdlowed by considerable inflammation, and sometimes by suppu- ration, and the sufferings of the patient are very great. All you have to do is to apply evaporating lotions, as the camphorated spirits of wine, or spirits of wine and the lotio alba, to prevent the disposition which there is jn the cuticle to break. A little opium should also be given to allay the irritability. But when the tecond effect I have spoken of is produced, when the bum is severe enough to separate the cuticle from the surface of the body, the most violent symptoms arise ; as when a person falls into boiling water ot wort. The exposure of so large a quantity of cutis produces a great constitutional effort in the re- aeiioi that takes place; but sometimes a person dies from the nhtic\c made on the nervous system, without any re-action having taken place. A child spilt some tea, which ran over his chest and abdomen, and he died in three days; therefore, the desqua- mation of the cuticle is the worst form of injury, from leaving the cutis unprotected. The tpirile of turpentine is the best appli- cation in this form of burn ; as the object is to excite a speedy re-action; and if you apply evaporating lotions, re-action can never take place. lAme-uxUcr and oil, and lime-water and miUc, have been commonly used ; but the tpiriti of turpentine is tho best application. Where the constitution is irritable, and it gives