104 ON GANGRENE. thus enfeebled, it will be unable to bear a very slight degree of supervening inflammation, so that gangrene will be produced, and the destruction of its life will follow. In this climate, how- ever, destruction of the life in the part does not in general imme- diately follow. A person will come to the hospitals with his feet benumbed; he may have been wandering about the streets, unable to find a place of refuge ; until he becomes, from this cause, incapable of walking. Great care must be taken in these cases not to apply heat very suddenly ; even the common he it of the bed frequently occasions inflammation, which is extremely liable to proceed to gangrene, in consequence of the diminished nervous influence of the part. I knew a gentleman of the first consequence in this country, and whose death occasioned per- haps as much regret as that of any one who has died for many years, who lost his life from an act of imprudence. He had been out shooting, and had exposed himself to severe cold ; and finding his feet benumbed on his return he immediately put them into warm water. The consequence was, that a gangrene took place, of which, notwithstanding all the care that could be taken of him, he died. In this climate it generally happens that inflammation succeeds the application of cold after an in- terval of two or three days. By the use of some slight means of treatment this inflammation is generally suspended, and it is by the repetition of the inflammation rather than by its severity that the powers of the part become at last exhausted. In colder climates than our own the part exposed to cold becomes white, and the suspended circulation is commonly restored by rub- bing the part with snow. If it be not very carefully treated, however, inflammation and sloughing is apt to come on. If a part be completely frozen, inflammation frequently ensues in a short time, and after continuing for a few hours, is followed by a destruction of the vital power. These are the symptoms which we observe in cases where gangrene is the result either of a high degree of inflammatory action, or of diminished power. When gangrene is produced by either of these causes, the process of separation soon com- mences. This process is one of the most curious operations of nature in the human body. There is nothing more extraordinary to my mind than the power which nature possesses of separating even large members without any danger from hemorrhage, or the smallest jeopardy to life. Thus we see a limb of consider-