278 ON INFLAMMATION OF THE CONJUNCTIVA. medicine of this kind; perhaps there is no medicine which, after blood-letting, tends so effectually to keep down the action of the heart and arteries. It should be given in such doses, and re- peated at such intervals, as to keep up a state of nausea. Purga- tive medicines are thought by some persons to be not at ail ne- cessary in this inflammation. Richter, a very valuable writer on surgery, is of this opinion ; and I am quite surprised at it, for much benefit will undoubtedly arise from evacuating the bowels of any accumulation of feculent matter. Constitutional irritation will be materially abated by keeping up the secretions from the intestines, and, in many cases, by altering and rendering them more healthy. The bowels should therefore be freely acted upon by doses of calomel, combined with jalap, scammony, or cathartic extract; and the effects of these medicines should be kept up by the exhibition of neutral salts, so as to produce a con- siderable number of watery stools. At the same time the diet of the patient should be low, and he should be kept in a state of perfect rest and quietude. When an impression has been made in this way on the symptoms, it will then be proper to adopt other plans of,treatment ; for instance, where blood has been taken to a consiclerable extent, the application of a blister to the nape of the neck will be attended with beneficial effects. The treatment of the part is also to be considered ; the head should be kept raised, so as to favour a return of the blood from the eyes, and the access of air or light should also be prevented by keep- ing the room darkened. When I say that the access of air should be prevented, I do not mean that the room should not be kept well ventilated, for this is a very material point, but only that the patient should not be exposed to variations of temperature. With respect to local applications, I believe it will in general be found that moist warmth is most agreeable to the patient in acute inflammation of the conjunctiva. This may be applied in the way of fomentations, either by means of tepid water, or decoctions of marsh-mallows, poppy-heads, or camomile flowers. Where there is much irritability, steam will often be found useful, and especially the steam of water in which opium has been infused, from which the patient will experience great relief. Some persons recommend a sort of poultice, although from the tumefaction of the lids, this is an application which cannot be very conveniently used. The poultice, of course, is not of the ordinary description ; it is genera', ly made of camomile