inflammation of the prosiate gland. 523 uretlira; thus the urine collects behind the swelling, presses it upon the mouth of the urethra, and forms a complete barrier to its passage. It is of great importance for you to understand this ; indeed, a correct knowledge of the morbid anatomy of the parts 13 altogether of consequence, because, if you have not this in- formation, you would find the greatest difficulty in the introduc- tion of the catheter; whereas, if you possess it, there will be no difficulty at all, and the urine may be drawn oft' with the greatest fecility. It was owing to the imperfect knowledge of the anatomy of these parts that retention of urine formerly proved so often fatal, which occurrence is now very, very rare; the reason is, that within the last forty years frequent dissections have caused these diseases to be well understood, and an improved mode of treatment has been the result. Well, then, although the enlarge- ment of the middle lobe of the prostate will give rise to retention of urine, by plugging up the orifice of the urethra, yet the lateral enlargement, although of great magnitude, does not produce any such eflPect. That you may be enabled perfectly to comprehend what 1 have been stating to you, I will send round for your in- spection different specimens of the diseases I have noticed. (The learned lecturer here delivered several preparations to the stu- dents.) Well, gentlemen, behind the prostate we frequently find sacs formed in the coats of the bladder: here is a preparation in which V''u see nine : here is another with, I believe, as many. These sacs are produced in the following manner :—the muscular fibres of the bladder give way, and between these fibres the mucous membrane protrudes ; thus, in reality, the sacs are elongations of the mucous membrane. We also find the bladder much enlarged in this disease; as also the ureters and the pelvis of the kidneys. How, then, when diseased proslate e.xists, are you to know if? what are the diagnostic signs? 'Vliy, the enlargement laterally may be readily ascertained by introducing the finger into the rectum ; but the enlargement of the mitidle lobe cannot be so learnt. In what way then? Why, by the introduction of a catheter or Imugie, and the latter is the best; it will be found to stop suddenly: you are then to introduce a catheter, for the pur- pose of drawing off the water; the instrument will be resisted in its common course, and you mu.st depress the handle a good deal, with a vitrw of tilting its point over the enlarged gland ;