ovarian or encysted DROrSY 413 to me; it is not of a malignant character, and appears to be of the same nature as simple chronic tumour of the breast. The fluid contained in the cyst of ovarian dropsy differs con- siderably in different subjects : in some being serous, in others mucilaginous, and occasionally purulent. The fluid sometimes is so thick when mucilaginous, that it will not escape through a common sized canula, and you are under the necessity of intro- ducing one of large diameter before you can succeed in drawing it off. I tapped a woman, in company with a surgeon in the city, and the sac in that instance contained a fluid like pus; the practitioner who was with me had found a similar discharge when he tapped her some months previously. This woman re- covered ; I have seen other ctises of a similar description. When you operate for ovarian dropsy, it is quite uncertain what kind of fluid you will find ; sometimes the cyst is filled with a number of hydatids : you must not, therefore, be alarmed when you perform the operation of paracentesis for the relief of this complaint, if a fluid should escape different from what you ex- pected. Now, gentlemen, the cj’st in which the water of ovarian dropsy is contained is of two species—one is formed of the membrane which covers the ovary, and the other from an hydatid which lodges upon that membrane, the ovary itself being quite un- affected. Here, gentlemen, (exhibiting the preparation to the class) is a specimen of dropsy of one of the fallopian tubes; both extremi- ties having been closed, water collected between them, and Ihus the disease was produced. Treatment of the Ovarian Dnopsv. I do not believe that medical treatment has any influence in, this complaint; that this, I do not consider that medicines will produce any marked difference in the quantity of fluid contained in the cyst of the ovarian dropsy. Different practitioners, how- ever, entertain different opinions on this suoject; but gentlemen, I feel it my duty to state candidly and openly to you the result of my own experience. You may, if you think proper, give digitalis and mercury; they are strongly recommended. 1 will mention to you a case which will illustrate the influence, or rather the want of influence, ol mercury in ovarian dropsy Dr. Bailie and myself once met in