ON THE DIFFERENT AMPUTATIONS. 448 transverse ligament of the wrist. The operation is easily per- formed and leaves a very neat stump. 'The radial and. ulnar arteries are the only ones which, in general, require to be secured, the interosseal not being of sufiicient magnitude to require se- curing. In tying the ulnar artery, be upon your guard not to include the ulnar nerve, which is close to its side : the ulnar ar- tery is close to the flexor carpi ulnaris, and the radial at the outer side of the flexor carpi radialis. AMruTATioN OF THE FonE Ann. The amputation of the fore arm a little above the wrist is a very dangerous operation ; I have known two instances, in which the fore arm was amputated three or four inches above the wnst, which terminated fatally. The objection to this operation is, that you divide a great number of tendons situated in the fore arm, which suppurate after the operation, and form extensive abscesses, which burrow along the arm ; tendons are exceeding- ly apt to slough, where matter has been produced, and in this way occasion the destruction of life. It may be said, that we also cut through some tendons in amputating at the wrist joint; tliis is true, but at the wrist joint they are so bound down by li- gaments that they do not suppurate alter the operation ; there is skin enough to cover the extremity of the joint, which unites by the adhesive process. Such is the result of experience with re- spect to amputating in this part; if you are asked where you should amputate, you should answer at one-third of the length of the fore arm in tracing it downwards. In amputating the fore arm you may make a double flap; one on the inside, and the other on the outer side ; and this mode of operating is often adopted. In sawing the bones, take care to saw both at the same time. A very good stump is left in this operation : four arteries require to be secured, the radial, the ulnar, and the anterior and posterior interosseal. The amputation of the upper arm is similar to the operation of amputation above the knee : in the latter, ho\*ever, it is neces- sary to make three incisions, as I explained to you in the last lecture; in amputating above the elbow joint two circular in- cisions will be sufficient, one through the integuments, and a se- cond through the muscles down to the bone : having well freed the bone from the muscle, you will proceed to divide it by the Saw. The reason for this difference in operating is, that above tlie knee you require a considerable poriiun ol inieguuieal to