638 DISLOCATIONS OF THE LOWER JAW. addition to the apparatus already employed, let a strong worsted tape be carried between the metacarpal bone and fore-finger, bend the fore-arm round a bed-post, and let the tape be firmly tied to it, so as to prevent the hand yielding when extension is made. To the tape surrounding the first phalanx, a pulley is to be applied, and extension made, which will generally succeed. With the greatest care and attention, and with the most perse- vering efforts, you will sometimes fail in reducing this dislocation where it has been neglected, and much time allowed to intervene between the occurrence of the accident and your attempts at re- duction. Although this should be the case, no division of the parts should be made, as the patient will have, after a time, a very useful thumb. In compound dislocations of the first pha- lanx, if the wound be large, and much difficulty is experienced in the reduction, I would advise you rather to saw off the extre- mity of the bone, than injure the parts further by the pressure which would be necessary. Lint dipped in blood should be applied to the wound, a roller lightly passed round, and evapo- rating lotions to be used for several days until the wound be healed. If passive motion be begun early, a very useful joint will be formed. A Dislocotion of the Second Phalanx, when simple, will be best reduced by grasping firmly the back of the first phalanx with your fingers, and placing the thumb on the fore part of the dis- located phalanx, then bending it on the first as much as you can. In this way you may lift the second over the lower part of the first phalanx, by making your thumb the fulcrum. When there is a compound dislocation of this joint, in addition to the 'awing off the ends of the bone, you should pare the ends of the tendon smoothly with the knife, and if you then bring them together they will unite. Passive motion should be begun at the end of a fortnight or three weeks. Of Dislocations of the Lower Jaw. Tne lower jaw is subject to two species of dislocation, the complete and partial. When the jaw is completely dislocated, both its condyles are advanced into the space between the sur- face of the temporal bone and zygomatic arch. When it is par- tial, one condyloid process only advances, whilst the other re- mains in the articular cavity of the temporal bone. Tiie jaw is known to be completely dislocated by the mouth being oiien, and the patient not being able to shut it by any pie.ssure which you may' make on the chin. The lower teeth will