OK HKRNIA. 2K1 w not formed by peritoneum, but is a cyst produced in the fol- lowing manner:—Opposite to the situation of the abdominal ring adhesion takes place between the sides of the tunica vaginalis, and a pouch is formed leading into the tunica vaginalis. A stricture crosses the bag directly opposite to the abdominal ring, shutting it up; and as the intestine descends into the upper part of the bag, the adhesion becomes elongated, and at length a sac is produced. The case from which this preparation was taken I had an opportunity of seeing at the other hospital. The patient was under the care of Mr. Forster ; he came to the hospital with symptoms of strangulation, but the hernia was extremely con- cealed. He was frequently persuaded to submit to the opera- tion for strangulated hernia, but he constantly refused, and chose rather to die than to undergo the operation. On examina- tion of the body after death, it was found that a cyst had formed, containing a convolution of intestine, which became strangulated at the orifice, and wa» the cause of death. There was a quan- tity of water in the cyst; the stricture was just at the mouth of the adhesion in the tunica vaginalis. Of Femoral Hernia. Before I proceed to describe to you the operation for femoral hernia, I shall demonstrate to you, on the dead subject, the ana- tomy of the parts concerned in this species of hernia. The super- ficial fascia of the abdominal muscles is given off by the tendon of the external oblique, which descends upon the spermatic cord, and is united to the edge of the abdominal ring in its descent. This stricture, which is of considerable density, is continued to the thigh, and forms a covering of femoral hernia. The absorb- ent vessels and superficial veins are kept within their boundaries by this fascia. From Poupart’s ligament two portions of fascia pass upwards, the fascia transversalis and the fascia iliaca. In cutting through the fascia lata a second portion of fascia will be found to be given off from the back part of Poupart’s ligament, which forms the sheath of the femoral artery and vein, which are separated from each other by a .septum. The anterior crural nerve has no connexion with the sheath, but forms the boundary of the sheath on the outer side. It is into this sheath that femoral hernia descends. It begins to descend between the border of Gimbernat’s ligament, which is the lower edge of Poupart’s ; the femoral artery being on the outer side, and the vein on the inner. The sheath becomes elongated when femoral hernia is produced, and it is