40 COUNTER-IRRITATION IN INFLAMMATION. last lecture, for relieving inflammation of the testicle. If you puncture the veins in front of the scrotum, and if the patient be in the erect position, blood vrill freely flow ; but put him in a re- cumbent position, the stream will immediately cease ; though when the body is thus placed, the power of the heart is greater than when in the erect position. If, during the ensuing winter, I should be called to any of you having inflammation in the hand, arising from punctures inflicted while dissecting, I should immediately direct you to get an in- clined plane made, upon which I should order you to rest your hand as long as the inflammation was at all violent. It is equally necessary to attend to position in inflammation of the leg. I must give you an example ; I was sent for to see a gentleman farmer in the neighbourhood of Rayleigh, in Essex, who for a long time had been subject to a very severe inflamma- tion in both his legs ; they were exceedingly red and very much swollen, in a'state threatening gangrene ; the constitutional irri- tation was very great, and the tongue covered with a brown fur. I found him with his legs in a tub of water; I took out one of them, and it smoked excessively ; I saw there was no time to be lost, had him immediately placed upon a sofa, and contrived to rest his legs upon the end of the sofa j consequently they were raised considerably higher than his body ; the vessels soon began to unload themselves, and the skin, in a short time, was evidently less red than when taken out of the water. I then applied flan- nels wrung out of warm water ; these soon produced a very con- siderable perspiration, by which the cellular membrane became unloaded, the swelling much less, and the pain materially abated. He gradually recovered, and in six weeks was enabled to ride a considerable distance to market. The completest tyro in surgery ought to know, that it would be folly to attempt to cure extensive inflammation in a limb, if it were allowed to continue in a depending position. The next circumstance to be attended to in the treatment of inflammation is rest; the necessity of which must be well known to you, as all of you must have observed that exercise increases the pulsation of the heart, and, consequently, must be injurious in inflammation. To obtain rest for an inflamed joint is one of our grand principles in the treatment, and no good can be done without it: it is curious to observe how nature herself directs this ; for where a joint is diseased, the muscles which act upon