32 TREATMENf OF CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. one-half in the morning, and the other in the evening; continue it as long as you think necessary, taking care to watch its effects on the gums ; always keeping in mind, that mercury given to ex- cess will tend to increase, rather than destroy, constitutional irri- tation. As sarsaparilla seems to possess the power of lessening irritability, we frequently give it with mercury, in the way I have just mentioned ; it is a medicine which has often a most extraor- dinary effect upon opacities of the cornea, and may be prescribed, in even very bad cases, with the greatest prospect of success. A girl from Sheerness was in Guy’s Hospital some time since, in whom the opacity was so great, that she was nearly blind ; quite *0 in one eye: the usual remedies employed in similar cases were tried, without obtaining the least benefit; she was then recom- mended the compound decoction of sarsaparilla, with the oxy- muriate of mercury, and in a short time she recovered her sight. 'I'he best alterative for the removal of chronic disorders in children, is one grain of the hydrarg. cum creta, and two or three grains of powdered rhubarb, mixed together, and given night and morning : this compound is exceedingly mild, and will have a particularly benign influence on the liver and intestines* One grain of oxymuriate of mercury, dissolved in an ounce of tincture of bark, and from ten to fifteen drops, according to the age of the child, being given twice a-day, will likewise be found a very valuable medicine. It is said, that the mercury is decom- posed by the bark ; but, whether it be so or not, it is attended with so many good effects, that I shall continue to prescribe it; and especially in those cases where there is enlargement of the mesenteric glands. Calomel and rhubarb, the hydr. cum creta, and soda, will also be found medicines of much power in the ehronic diseases of children. Lastly, as it is not advisable to give these little creatures mer- cury, if it can be avoided, a medicine, composed of two grains of rhubarb, and five grains of the carbonate of iron, given two or three times a-day, will often render its employment unnecessary : this medicine acts as an aperient and powerful tonic. The nature of inflammation I hope you all now thoroughly understand ; recollect that the vessels of the part are in a dilated state, and the surrounding ones have an increased action. 1 shall next speak of the Local Treatment of Inflammation. Much has been said about the application of cold in these af-