366 OPERATION or LITIIOTOMT. ceed ; and 1 feel perfectly satisfied, if at the commencement -of yourcareeryou should indiscriminately employ if, that in the end, like me, you will discontinue its use in grown persons, and adopt It only in operations for children. Difficulties in the Operation. A large calculus is a most serious obstacle to both the perform- ance and success of lithotomy ; it is a difficulty of a horrible nature ; and in consequence of the bruise which the neck of the bladder receives from the force necessary to be employed in its removal, generally proves mortal. There is no comparison in the danger arising from a number of small stones, and that result- ing from a large one : the small stones, if you are careful, can all be removed without doing any violence to the parts; but with a large one this is impossible. Large stones, when connected with enlarged prostates present difficulties much greater than when the gland is in a healthy condition. Here (handing the specimen to a student) is a pre- paration in which you have an opportunity of seeing the state of the parts under these circumstances. Operations on such patients are dangerous to the last degree ; it is scarcely possible that they can recover from them ; and the surgeon often falls into disre- pute, most undeservedly, who happens to have the misfortune to meet with such cases. Some practitioners tell you that these cases would be successful if they were properly treated. These men are either fools or impostors, and the sooner they are kicked out of the profession the better. Such men pretend to uniform success ; which claim, which pretension, to practitioners of expe- rience and to men of honour, is only an exposure of their want of candour and utter disregard of tmtn I can assure you, gentle- men, that you will be sometimes successful, and sometimes not; only take care to study your profession with assiduity—to dis- charge its duties with fidelity—the taunts of your enemies will not then annoy you, and your minds will be free from self- reproach. That which I teach you I know to be really true; I am no speculator; ray arguments are the superstructure of facts; my deductions are from cases and occurrences which I have my- self observed. In the faithful discharge of my duty in this theatre I am compelled to mention unfortunate as well as fortunate cases. I sometimes praise and sometimes censure; but in neither do I €ver exceed that boundary which would be incompatible with my own honour or your improvement. In detailing to you the errors