ON PARACENTESIS ABDOMINIS. 421 ittle urine while she sucked oranges, but passed a great deal when she returned to her ordinary beverage. It would appear that the quantity of fluid taken makes no difference as to the re- turn of the disease, as it passes oft by the kidneys ; I do not naean, however, to build any theory upon a single case. Accumul.ation of F luid in the Chest. An operation is occasionally, but very rarely performed for his disease. I will state to you all I have been able to learn on this subject. In the first place. I have never known a case in which water had collected in the cavity of the chest, in which the opera- tion of paracentesis of the tnorax has been performed, where the patients have not died. This is not surprising, because hydro- thorax is the result of the disease of the thoracic viscera, disease of the lungs or heart, and the cause remains though the effect is removed. Paracentesis of the thorax, however, is not unsucccs- ful, when matter has accumulated in the chest. IMatter is some- times confined in the chest by adhesion, producing spurious em- pyema, and sometimes it is diffused through the whole cavity of the pleura on one side. The marks of accumulation of matter in the chest are considerable pain in the side, severe fever, and constitu- tional irritation ; cough, with difficulty of breathing, inability to lie, except on the side on which the matter is accumulating ; and, lastly, which you would not expect, considerable enlargement of the chest on that side. The reason of this difference in the size of the chest on the side affected is, that the accumulation of fluid prevents expiration on that side, and the ribs are unable to de- scend. There are other means of ascertaining the presence of fluid in the chest, to which I need hardly allude, as you have, no doubt, seen the instrument, (the stethoscope) used by a phy- sician in this hospital. I have not had sufficient experience of this instrument to say decidedly how far it is available for this purpose. When matter has accumulated in the chest, the patient may be relieved by the following operation. You draw the skin as much as possible upwards, and cut down with your scal- pel on the upper edge of the eighth or ninth rib. Having cut through the intercostat muscles by this incision, without intro- ducing the knife through the pleura, you pass the canula through the pleura, and it enters the chest. The matter escapes as soon as you withdraw the trocar; after which draw the skin down : the wound closes without danger of any further inflammation beyond the adhesive. (The learned professor proceeded to