540 GONORRHOEA IN FEMALES. rheumatism proceeding from gonorrhoea; and he replied, several times. 'J'he next case did not surprise me so much; and now and then, ever since, I have met with similar ones. It is by no means an unfiequent occurrence for gonorrhoea to produce a rheumatic and painful affection of the joints. Whether it is by absorption of the poison, or the constant irritation produced by the inflammation of the urethra, I do not know ; but certain it is, that gonorrhoea produces ophthalmia and rheumatism, and when not a single drop of matter has been applied to the eye. The inflammation generally attacks both eyes, and is of long duration. It requires the same remedies as are used in gonor- rhoea ; balsam of copaiba, or some form of turpentine, will be found the best, and to these you add such local treatment as the stale of the inflammation demands. But, with regard to gonorrhoeal rheumatism, some form of turpentine must be ex- hibited ; either the spirit of turpentine, the balsam copaiba, or olibanum. When you have practised a little, you will find this to be true. I do not recollect to have met with a descrip- tion of it in any surgical work; but whoever has practised at all, must have frequently met with it. GoNonnncEA in Females. Gonorrhoea in females is rather less violent than in males. Its seat is in Cowper’s glands, on each side of the urethra, at the os externum. On each side of the os externum there are two small openings, which will admit the head of a probe being introduced into them, and these are the seat of the gonorrho-a in females. There is a great degree of surrounding inflamma- tion : the orifice of the meatus urinarius and lacuna: discharge matter. There is a pain in making water, and in some severe cases it commonly happens that there is considerable irritation of the bladder, of which the shortness of the urethra is the cause; the inflammation at the orifice extends down the meatus urinarius, to the internal coat of the bladder. In this com- plaint, the meatus urinarius, Ciowper's glands, and the extre- mity of the vagina, are red, and the caruncul® mytiformes swollen. I once had an opportunity of examining a woman from Magdalen ward of this hospital, who died of gonorrhoea ; it is the only female with this complaint I have ever opened. In addition to the circumstances I have just mentioned, 1 found the urethra very red, and red streaks proceeding from the ter-