OV IRRITABLE CHANCRE. C54 ultimately recovered. When the patient is very irritable, opium and the compound decoction of sarsaparilla should be exhibited; in this way you diminish the irritability of the part. When tha^ “ sloughing extends, the ammonia combined with opium, will be f found of considerable benefit; five grains of ammonia and one J grain of opium, three times a-day. We are in the habitof giving in these hospitals, ammonia and musk, ten grains of musk and i ' five of ammonia, three times a-day, in the form of a bolus ; and, ' on the whole, we find that they exercise a considerable infiuence ' in sloughing chancre. At the same time you must support the patient’s strength by a nutritious diet, and give stimulants to as- sist the digestive powers, and the power of the circulation : wine i and porter must be allowed ; porter, if the patient is of an irrita- ble constitution, and wine if he is not; they must be given so as to keep up a vigorous action, but not to excite a feverish heat. ' By these means you will generally put a stop to the sloughing, and establish the patient’s health. If the chancre slough early, you should not make use of mercury immediately after the heal- ing process has taken place, but wait for the secondary symptoms. If the sloughing comes on early, the patient is often safe from future attacks, and I therefore generally wait to see the result. It occasionally happens that an opening in the urethra is formed to a considerable extent; when there is an opening there are three plans of treatment to be adopted :—1st. If the opening is small, a bougie should be passed till there is established a con- siderable diameter of the urethra, just anterior to the opening, to allow the water to pass freely, when the aperture will soon close. 2dly. If the opening is large, a caustic should be applied round the edges of the aperture, a little nitric acid will do, which pro- duces a slough of the cuticle and cutis; when the healing pro- cess commences, it should be continued once a-week, till a cica- trix forms, and draws the parts together, and entirely cures the patient. 3dly. The next mode adoptSd is, the Taliacotian ope- ration : it consists in bringing a piece of the living skin over the aperture. Some pare the edges of the opening, and apply the twisted .suture, but it never succeeds, as the urine soon bursts it open ; but the other operation has been performed with success. I had a patient once with this complaint, in whom I separated a small piece of skin from the scrotum, and applied its raw surface to the edges of the wound ; this 1 kept in its situation by three sutures. Adhesive plaister was put over the whole, and a gum