5 IXTRODUCTORY LECTURE. will get the best watchmaker you can to set it right. How then can it be supposed, that the finest and most perfect organization we know of, when out of order, should be consigned to the hands of unlearned persons t Mistakes of this kind do, it is true, sometimes happen, but much less often now than formerly. \Mien you dissect, do not attack all the parts of the body af once. The best plan is, to take the portion that you are examin- ing to your room, and keep it fresh by plunging it into alcohol. Inspect it with care, and note down your observations. By these means, a head will occupy your time for five or six weeks very advantageously. Physiological knowledge is of the utmost importance to the profession of surgery: this gives you a knowledge of the healthy functions, and thus enables you better to understand the nature of diseased action. This was the rock on which Hunter stood, admired by the wise, and abused by the ignorant; indefatigable in his research, he ommitted no opportunity of exploding false theories, and substituting true ones founded on facts established by experiments. But it is said that he was a man of great genius: I do not think so ; or, if he were, he owed it to his un- common industry and assiduity. He was the last in the labora- ory or study at night, and the first there in the morning, allowing nimself very little time for repose. It was in this way he col- ected and arranged that Museum which will endure as long as any thing of the kind—the admiration of foreigners, as well as of our own countrymen. But we are still more indebted to him for the true principles of our science, which he displayed to us with a masterly hand. In this free country, the same way is open to all who choose to take it, who prefer honourable and laborious exertion to idle habits, which insure ignorance, and, finally, disgrace. The study of medicine is important to the surgeon : he should be able lo prescribe with certainty—should well understand the great influence of local disease on the constitution, as well as the origin of local disease from constitutional derangement. Without such knowledge, he knows but half his duty. On the other hand, a mere physician cannot be a good judge of surgical cases; and notwithstanding my respect for the physicians of Guy’s Hos- pital, I would not hold my situation in that establishment, unless I had the right of prescribing for my surgical patients. I had. jn one of these hospitals, a man under my care for a compound