FRACTURES OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 6.59 particularly liable to happen again, and the return of it is best prevented by a bandage made with a piece of linen having four straps attached to it, and these are bound tightly above and below the patella. Of Compound Dislocations of the Knee-Joint J have only seen one example. This required an immediate amputation; and, it is probable that, in all these accidents, unless the wound is very small, so as to allow of its ready closure and adhesion, that a similar practice will be necessary. I shall next speak of Fractures ok the Knee-Joint; And, first, of Fractures of the Patella.—The patel a is generally broken transversely, but sometimes longitudinally. In the first of these the upper part is drawn from the lower, by the action of the muscles inserted into it, whilst the lower part remains fixed by its ligament. The degree of separation depends on the laceration of the ligament. The accident is at once known by the depression between the two portions of bone, into which you may put your fingers, and by the upper part of the bone moving readily on the lower and fore part of the thigh. The power of extending the limb is also lost; and the knee bends forwards from a loss of action of the extensor muscles. Soon after the accident, extravasation takes place on the fore part of the joint, and produces a livid appearance, but this is removed by absorption in a few days. There is afterwards considerable effusion from inflammation into the surrounding parts. It hap- pens either from blows on the patella, or from the action of the muscles. The union of this fracture is generally by ligament, whether the separation of the bones be great or little. But still the principle which should guide you in the treatment is, to make that ligament as short as possible. If the upper end of the bone be retracted by the muscles, the ligament connecting the bones is long, the patient walks very lame, and is liable to fall and break the other patella. When called to this accident, you should place the patient on a mattress, extend the limb on a well-padded splint, which is placed bchinrl the thigh and leg. The patient should be raised ar much as he can to the sitting posture, to relax the rectus ; an evaporating lotion of while wash should then he applied, and the heel should also be raised towards the trunk, to bring up the lower portion of the patella. If there should be much inflamma- tion, existing for a day or two, leeches must be applied, and an 2 u 2