580 ON SYPHILIS AND THE USE OF MERCURY. believe the disease may be communicated through the influence of the parent’s or the nurse’s milk. I believe that I have seen examples of this description.—Is the Matter of Bubo infecticusl —Not so far as experiments have gone. The matter of bubo in- serted in the skin has produced no appearance of chancre ; for my own part, I think there is but very little difference between the matter of bubo and that of common abscess.—Are Gonorrhoea and Syphilis the same disease!—On this point there is no diffi- culty for any one to satisfy himself, and he will soon be convinced that there are no diseases in the world more decidedly diflerent. Now, gentlemen, to prove this, let a man who has had a very bad gonorrhoea apply four or half a dozen of leeches near the glans penis; and then draw over the skin, so that the sores made by the leeches may be embedded in the gonorrhoeal matter ; well, gentlemen, will chancres be the consequence ? Will secondary symptoms ensue as consequences of the experiment ? No j neither one nor the other will be seen, and one cannot well con- ceive a more conclusive fact than this. Mr. Thurston, in 1801, made the following experiment on a young Cantab, who had gonorrhoea in an excessive degree, with ardor urinre. Mr. Thurston look some of the discharge, and introduced it into the prepuce; he inserted it in two places, thus making two sores; both wounds, however, healed kindly, without producing the slightest appearance of chancre, or the most trivial constitutional symptoms. After such experi- ments as these, it would be madness to say the two diseases were alike; and those persons who think so, entertain wrong notions of the subject, or, unfortunately, their minds may be governed by prejudice, and consequently are incapable of receiving proper impressions. Let me urge you, therefore, not to continue to think that gonorrhoea and syphilis are the same disease. The next question is this: Are those parts of the Body, which are Haute to Syphilis, subject to other Diseases similar in appearance to Sy- philis 1—Yes, the glans penis, for example, is subject to ulcera- tion from various causes, and the ulcers, occasionally, very much resemble chancre ; this last sore, however, often possesses a ipecific character, by which its true nature can, with the utmost correctness, be ascertained. Although you are frequently ena- bled to determine that a sore is really chancrous, and are thus tapable of confidently asseiting that it is syphilitic, yet, at the same time, there is often great difficulty in saying what is not so;