ON PURULENT OPHTHALMIA, 281 lability in the eyes. Lastly, ’.vith respect to tlie treatment of ch.'onic ophthalmia, I have already stated various causes which predisposes to, in some instances excite, and in many keep up, this state of the complaint. You must give, therefore, conjointly with those remedies which I have just pointed out, others to act on the morbid state of the constitution which keeps up the local irritation, and vour success in the treatment of this inflammation will very materially depend on the accuracy with which you in- vestigate the causes to which I have adverted, and the judgment with which you apply the remedies. I shall now proceed to consider the suppurative form of in- fiammation, producing Purulent Ophthalmia. Suppurative inflammation of the conjunctiva is the most se- vere form of inflammation in that membrane. It'is exceedingly acute, very rapid in its progress, and often very destructive in its ultimate effects. This form of the complaint reiiuires very active treatmenU The symptoms are so manifest that there can be no doubt of the nature of the complaint, its prominent character being the formation of a considerable quantity of purulent matter. In other respects the symptoms are not very different from those which characterize inflammation generally. The patient at first feels an uneasy sensation about the eyes ; next some degree of pain on the admission of light, which increases to a considerable intolerance of light. Redness of the vessels is observed, and besides this a greater degree of swelling than commonly attends simple inflammation. The eye-lids soon become much swollen, the conjunctiva, where it covers the fore part of the globe of the eye, is tumid; there is considerable chemosis, and often such tur- gescence of the upper lid as to prevent the pdtient from raising iu The lids are often so much tumefied as to become everted, 80 that a sort of roll of the lid is formed. These are the symp- toms which precede the discharge of matter. A fluid first ap- pears which is not opaque, and has the character of tenacious mucus; in the course of twenty-four hours it assumes the ap- pearance of pus. It is thick, yellow, sometimes green, and poured out in considerable quantities. The appearance of the tunica conjunctiva has been not inaptly compared to the foetal Stomach, when injected. It has the appearance of a villous membrane highly injected with red blood, and certainly very nearly resembles the internal surface of the foetal stomach when