682 ON BURNS AND SCALDS. violent pain, dilute it with oil, or with the oil and lime-water, and I think it would then form a very good application. Give opium and wine as long as the chilly state continues; but as soon as the heat is developed, and the pulse has recovered its power, do not continue it any longer, but employ other means to reduce the inflammation when necessary. Turpentine does not succeed where the scald is produced by hydrogen, or carbonated hydrogen gas, so well in London as in the country. The third state is where the life of the skin is destroyed to a great extent. There is no immediate danger, for the constitution does not suffer in the first instance. The danger is to be appre- hended when the sphacelated part begins to separate. The absorbents act briskly, and a great discharge follows the separa- tion of the part. Fomentations and poultices are most useful in these cases, as the turpentine cannot act on the dead surface. It is necessary to give wine and opium, as in the former case, during the chilly state. The treatment is just the same, indeed, as in a case of common gangrene ; and toward the end, when the process of suppuration is commencing, you may give wine and opium, or ammonia, to support the constitution. These cases produce the most remarkable deformities. These are not unfrequently the result of the surgeon’s treatment, as they occur in a great measure after the cicatrization has been complete. They are owing to the natural tendency which there IS in the cicatrix to contract. The wounds often heal smoothly, but afterwards become puckered. These contractions are apt especially to occur in the neck, by which the skin is united to the chest; and if the arm be the burnt part, the fore-arm becomes united to the upper-arm. The fingers become united to each other, and the thumb is sometimes bent very much backwards. This contraction may be prevented in the arm by passing a splint behind the arm, and keeping the arm extended on it. The same rule should be attended to, if there should be any danger of the thigh uniting to the abdomen. You should pass a splint behind the thigh, and keep the thigh extended on it, and the contraction will be prevented. But as to the neck, do all you^can, by binding the head back, or to either side, yet the contractions will take place. When the cuticle is removed, and the cutis is in a granulating state, you may produce cuticle ovor it very quickly by using the acetate of zinc tcash, made by putting two grains of the sulphate of zinc to one ounce of the liquor plumbi subacetniis Utlutui, This object is sometimes well accomiilishcd by sprinkling