II 2 INTI’.OmHTORY l.r.CTUUR.. 3 man, unless he possess a thorough knowledge of anatomy. 'J'his is the real groundwork of all surgical science; and it has ever been found that half-anatomists are bungling practitioners; igno- rance here, as it always will, gives confidence without power. But it is consolotary to know, that the human frame is better understood at the present epoch by students than it was forty years ago by professors. With us, the march of improvement has been most rapid; and it has principally arisen from the assi- duity with which the modern surgeons have pursued their avoca- tions in the dissecting room. A few years since, all operations were attended with hazard; those now undertaken commonly do well, which can only be explained by our increased informa- tion. An old surgeon, now deceased, said, “ that operations for extracting stones from the bladder, put him in mind of sailing between Scylla and Charybdis.” It was replied, “ that not to attempt them was certainly resigning his patients to Scylla!” Tis true, these operations require the most perfect anatomical skill; as do those for hernia, aneurism, and fractures of the bones of the head, attended with depression. Anatomy likewise teaches us how to discriminate disease; in which lies more than half the cure. Without this knowledge, dislocations frequently cannot be detected; whereby patients may become miserable for life, and thus the reputation of the surgeon be for ever lost. Some years since, one of the profession, whom I had long known, but had not seen for man)’ years, called on iqe ; I naturally inquired l e- specting his success. He replied, that his life had been like April, sometimes sunshine, sometimes rain. I rejoined, “How so 1. you have brought up a family genteely, arid have, I under- stand, a respectable practice.”—“ True, (said he) but a cir- cum-stance occurred some time ago which has given me much uneasiness; I v/as called to attend a case of dislocation of the shoulder joint, but it so happened that I could not discover it; after attending the patient for a considerable time, another surgeon was requested to see him, who at once pronounced the bone to be out, which in reality was the case, for in a very short time he reduced it. When the man recovered, he brought an action against me, I had to pay two hundred pounds damages, and the .aw expenses were two hundred pounds more. The loss of the money I did not feel, but I have severely felt being pointed at as an ignorant man.” A few years ago one of the drcsicrs in St. Thomas's Hospita'