666 ON COMPOUND FRACTURES. the wound were allowed to be filled by granulations. This being the principal object, you should always aim at it, unless the fracture be accompanied with severe contusion of the soft parts, when you must apply a poultice in order to facilitate the dis- charge from the wound, and promote the separation of the parts to be removed. As, for example, a wound caused by a heavy body passing over the limb, the parts must slough, and therefore it would be useless to attempt to procure an union by adhesion. If the wound communicating with the fracture be caused by the ends of the bone or any sharp instrument, you may generally succeed in produring an adhesion. But do not apply adhesive plaster, as it frequently produces erysipelas on the edge of the wound, and on this account 1 have latterly put a bit of lint on the edges of the wound, after extirpating the female breast, and the adhesive plaster over it. Then apply the many-tailed bandage loosely, so that it may give way to the tension that follows ; you should also apply some evaporating lotion, and the material of which the bandage is made is a very good thing for retaining the fluid for the purpose. Splints should afterwards be put on ; those made of wood are the best, and one should be put on each side of the limb. Do not apply the splints tightly at first, so as to cause pain, but see that they are well padded, and the bones nicely adjusted. In a few days it often happens that inflammation arises, and a dis- charge of pus follows, when the lint which was at first applied should be partly removed, and the matter allowed to discharge. If the matter should be small in quantity after you have let it out, replace the lint carefully, and do not apply a poultice, but continue the use of the cold wash. If, on the other hand, the discharge of matter be considerable, or if it be a contused wound, with a tendency to slough, then you should apply fomen- tations and poultices, and heal the wound by a granulating process. 1 he position of the limb may be just the same as in simple fracture; with this exception, that if the suppurative process should be set up, the wound will require dressing, and therefore it will be necessary to have the limb in a convenient position for that purpose. If the leg be fractured, it should be bent, and laid on its outer side, for if it rest on the heel, then the fractured part is without support, and it requires very great attention to prevent deformity of the limb. If, n hile the leg is lying on its side, you allow the