50 ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION—APPEAKANCES. haps it was assisted in its course by the action of the temporal muscle. I saw a boy, who had been attending a target at which some volunteers had been firing. He thought himself safe at a distance of thirteen yards : he was mistaken, however, for one of them shot him in the collar-bone. Some months after he came to Guy’s Hospital, and I removed the ball from about the middle of the upper arm. Thus the ball, by its weight and pressure, had occasioned suppuration and ulceration, which had enabled it to travel to the situation from whence I extracted it. Another very important use of adhesive inflammation is that of Its dividing cavities into distinct parts, by which means it fixes a boundary to the suppurative process ; thus it will divide the cavity of the abdomen into two, by throwing out adhesive mat- ter on the surface of the colon, by which it becomes glued to the peritoneum. In abscesses, a cyst is formed by the adhesive process round the matter, which prevents its escape into the sur- rounding cellular tissue. The advantage of adhesive inflammation is admirably shown in wounds of the joints. Immediately on the knee Joint being opened, the synovia escapes, the person feels faint, looks pale, and the constitution appears to have received a severe shock. The wound endangers the loss of the limb and the patient’s life, if bad treatment be adopted. If a poultice be applied to such a wound, or fomentations used, a suppurative inflammation will take place on the synovial surfaces ; the cartilages become ab- sorbed, and the bones ulcerated j a profuse discharge ensues ; the constitution becomes extremely irritated ; chills, succeeded by burning heat and profuse perspirations, frequently follow each other; and a person, just before in good health, is precipi- tated into a state of extreme debility. Sometimes the joint, after weeks or even months have elapsed, gradually heals by granula- tion, with its motion either entirely gone or greatly impeded. If, on the contrary, the practitioner brings the edges of the wound immediately together, and attempts union by the first in- tention, the patient generally escapes from local or constitutional irritation. The edges of the wound should be brought together by a fine suture—a plan, to which some surgeons object; but when the wound is direct into the joint, it affords an additional security to the patient, as the escape of the synovia has a con- staiit tendency to prevent adhesion, and to separate the plaister. The suture should penetrate the skin, the ligament being care-