ON CALCULI IN THE PROSTATE GLAND, 366 paration on the table, in which three calculi are seen lodged in the prostate, in consequence of ulceration opening from the bladder, and another in which there is a number of calculi con- tained in a cyst formed in the prostate. Calculi in the prostate gland may be readily detected by introducing your finger into the rectum. I was once sent for, by a Mr. Vaux, to a gentleman who was the subject of retention of urine. I introduced a cathe- ter to what was supposed to have been a stricture, but I felt the instrument pass over a calculus; I put my finger into the rectum to ascertain where the stone was, and pressing upon the prostate gland, I felt the stone just above it. It afterwards appeared that tliere were three calculi in his prostate gland. I told him he might be immediately relieved by suffering me to make an inci- sion in perinteo ; but he was a timid man, and would not consent to the operation. He lived for some years after, was occasionally the subject of retention of urine, and died miserably from the effects of the disease on his kidney. He foolishly chose to die a painful death, when he might have been easily relieved by a slight operation. I recently had an elderly gentleman under my care who had an enormous number of calculi in his prostate gland. I do not know how many 1 removed from him, and if I did, I should scarcely venture to say how many. A bottle full of calculi taken from this gentleman has been preserved. 7'hey were not of course of a large size. I did not open the bladder in this case, but having introduced a staff into the bladder, I made an incision in the perineum towards the prostate gland, and putting my finger into one lobe of it, I found a quarry of calculi. I removed some of them with my finger, and some with a small pair of dress- ing forceps. I then opened the other lobe, and extracted a number of stones which were imbedded in it, I have since bad occasion to see this gentleman, and again removed a number of calculi from the prostate gland. It may be said that there is a little difficulty in the operation of opening the prostate gland, but a man wlio is acquainted with the anatomy of the parts, and who has studied his profession, will never talk of difficulty ; and if he is not well acquainted with the anatomy of the parts, he ought not to touch the human body as a surgeon. I have heard It observed, that to make an opening into the urethra is a difficult operation.—Ridiculous ! A man who has studied his profession, and dissected tlie human body, ought to be flogged if he cannot