339 SIZE OF CALCULI. bear a relative proportion, for some stones of considerable mag- nitude do not weigh much, whilst others which are small weigh a good deal. A very large stone, t]iat was found in a body after death, weighed twenty-five ounces. There is one at Trinity Col- lege, Cambridge, which weighs thirty ounces ; it is stated to weigh thirty-three ounces, but I believe thirty is the true weight. The stone of the greatest size and weight I ever heard of, was one taken from the body of a highly respectable individual, after death, by two eminent surgeons of this town. He had a paralj- sis of the lower extremities, and half of the body was insensible ; m this state he was operated on for stone ; but after various at- tempts at extracting it, the operation was postponed for a week, in order that some instrument might be obtained in the mean while, by which the stone might be broken. At the end of the week the operation was again repeated, but tlte stone was neither to be broken nor extracted, and the gentleman died from irrita- tion. On examining the body after death, there was found a 'arge stone in the bladder, which there was a difficulty of raising from its seat; it could not have been extracted if the high opera- tion had been perfonned; it weighed forty-four ounces, and a slight addition ; how many grains or drachms I am not exactly sure. LECTURE XXXIX. ly the last evening’s lecture, gentlemen, I began to describe to you the subject of the formation of calculi, the different species of calculi, and the symptoms which attend them. 1 shall now pro- ceed with this subject. The pain which a patient experiences from stone in the bladder is by no means in proportion to its bulk. It is not exactly in the inverse ratio to its magnitude, but still it approaches that inverse ratio. When a stone becomes ex- cessively large, the patient generally loses the power of retaining his urine, and the distillation of urine from the bladder prevents that contraction of it which occa-ions so much pain to the patient in discharging the last drops of it. Doctor Franklin, the cele- brated American philosopher, who died of this disease, suffered excessively for a number of years from it; but, at last, when the stone acquired considerable magnitude, he experienced but little pain. The pain does not so much depend on the form of the stone as on the general irritability of the patient, and especially on irritability of the bladder. 'J'hus you will sometimes in performing the operation find a stone excessively pointed, where the patient r 2