296 ON ULCERATION OF THE CORNEA. duces the formation of pus—this brealw, and an ulcer is formed. In ulcers of the cornea you will find the edges rugged, uneven, and elevated, the ulcer itself having an ash-coloured appearance, and the patient complaining of great pain ; there will also be a discharge of a good deal of acrid and irritating matter. In ge- neral there will be no difficulty in distinguishing ulcers of the cornea : all you have to do is to put the eye in profile, and take a side view of this organ, and you will see the ulcer with the ap- pearances I have described. The situation of the ulcers of the cornea varies; very frequently they are at the superior portion, and affecting only the external lamellae, in other cases spreading Over the whole cornea, and penetrating into the anterior chamber, by which means the aqueous humour escapes, and the iris is often protruded ; sometimes even the opening becomes enlarged, and the crystalline lens and vitreous humour escape. The ulcers vary in their appearance, some being large and others small, and those which are of small size, on cicatrization, do not materially obstruct vision, whilst those that are large, when healed, pro- duce a nebulous appearance which destroys the power of sight. Treatment of Infiammation and Ulceration <f the Cornea.—The treatment required in inflammation of the cornea does not differ materially from that of inflammation of the conjunctiva, or any other part of the eye, and therefore it will not be necessary to recapitulate the means necessary to be adopted; you must rely on efficacy of a strict antiphlogistic plan, and when the acute in- flammation has been subdued, on the use of mild astringent col- lyria. When ulcers, however, form in any part of the cornea, it will be proper to use active means, if they be accompanied by acute inflammation ; but most frequently they are accompanied by chronic ophthalmia, and have a disposition to spread rather than heal. In these cases astringent lotions will be of great ser- vice ; but of all remedies in ulcei s of the cornea, the nitrate of silver is the one on which you are to depend; it is generally used in a state of solution, about two grains to an ounce of water, or it will be better to begin with a grain to an ounce, regulating the strength in proportion to the degree of irritation it may produce. Scarpa gives the preference to caustic itself in the treatment of the ulcers of the cornea ; the caustic is to be cut to a sharp point and the ulcer to be touclied with it. An eschar forms, wliich in