462 ON NASAL POLYPI. will be found a great assistance, as the forceps are imme- diately conveyed by it to the peduncle. I just now said that the polypus should be torn off by a sudden jerk: this is of im- portance, ond you should keep it in your recollection. If you remove the polypus by gradual efforts, that is, by gradually withdrawing the foiceps, you will not accomplish that which ought to be your object, viz. preventing the return of the dis- ease; by a sudden jerk you are often enabled to tear away a portion of the pituitary membrane, and even the bone itself to which the polypus maj' be attached. By this you succeed in destroying the source from whence it sprung, and effectually ob- viate a repitition of the complaint, always recollect'therefore to use a jerk, and not pull the forceps gradually. If the person should very young, and the nose small, you may remove the polypus with a pair of forceps similar to such as are contained in our common pocket instrument cases; in- deed such are the forceps which I often employ fur the ex- traction of nasal polypi; if, however, the polypi should grt.w far back, you then will succeed best with the forceps I first mentioned. Sometimes I take away polypi by merely using a pair of probe-pointed scissors. After cutting through the peduncle, if you desire the patient to blow his nose, the air will force it nut of the nostril; but I should tell you, that when thus re- moved, they are more likely to return than when extracted by the forceps, because )’Ou do not with the scissors take away, as with the forceps, the pituitary membrane, and this is the source whence these polypi spring. But, gentlemen, polypi not unfrequently extend into the posterior nares, even back as far as the spine, in which situa- tion you may not only often feel them with the finger, but, when of this magnitude, frequently see them ; these polypi must be removed by a pair of forceps exceedingly curved; their curve should describe at least half a circle, the curve of course being of such a size as to admit its free introduction into the mouth, these forceps should be passed to the back of the mouth, then their points or blades are to be carried up the posterior nares, when, having satisfied yourself in the manner before directed that you have hold of the peduncle, you are to break it off by moving the forceps in a direction downwards and backwards. Another way when the polypus i^ large, and when the peduncle grows from the side of