561 ON SYPHILITIC BUBO. the best in irritable buboes. When the state of the swelling will allow, you can return to the use of mercury to complete the cure. It is only by the injudicious use of mercury that the very severe symptoms which occur after syphilis are produced. I do not believe that a syphilis itself ever produces them ; no, gentle- men, they arise either from a defect in the constitution of the pa- tient, or from the fault of the medical man. I do not believe that I nodes arise from the syphilitic virus alone, but principally from I the injudicious treatment of syphilis, where mercury'has beenin- I cautiously administered, therebyi increasing the irritability of the patient, and leading to worse consequences than the disease for which it was originally given. In order to subdue this irritable state of constitution, give opium and the compound decoction of ■sarsaparilla, which will have the power of lessening the irrita- I bility of the system, and relieving the patient. As to sarsaparilla I being a .specific for the cure of syphilis, you will find that it is no I such thing ; it has the power of suspending the symptoms of sy- I philis for a short time, but not that of curing him ; and the sur- (gfeon who thinks that he has, grossly deceives himself; for, if he does not return to the same surgeon (which he seldom does when I he has once been deceived by him), he goes to another, and so on, till at last it is difficult to ascertain whether his disease is from 1 syphilis, or from the various remedies which he has tried. What 1 should say is, that the improper use of mercury leaves a dis- I position in the constitution for the disease to return ; and who- tever has seen much practice knows, that secondary symptoms I are generally the result of a mistaken treatment of the syphilitic disease. Well, then, opium, and the compound decoction of I sarsaparilla, will lessen the irritability of the constitution ; and so far they are useful, but any further than this they ought not to be used. I say, that no surgeon who understood the nature of sy- : philis, and who had it in his own person, would tru.'t to sarsapa^ irilla for a cure. In fact, I would say, if he did (and you know that I use no milk and water expressions,) that he was a block, head. So long as I have the honor of addressing you, will I openly state my opinions to you. I am not come here to listen to the opinions of others, which I know to be wrong, from the ex- perience of forty years’ practice, nor to be taught by beardless hoys how to treat a dhsease, of which I have seen thousands and 1 liiousarids of cases. I he next subject which we shall consider is the 2 o