312 ON EXTRACTION OF THE CATARACT. head resting against it, or firmly supported against the chest of an assistant. 'I'lie operator should place himself behind the patient, in a chair of sufficient height to enable him to plant his foot con- veniently on a stool, and resting his elbow on the knee opposite to the eye to be operated upon, bring his hand towards it. The assistant should then place his hand behind the patient’s head, and with the extremity of his fore-finger gently raise up the lid without making pressure on the globe. 'J’he operator then takes the knife in his right hand, if it be the left eye that is to be operated upon, and in his left, if it be the right eye, in the same way as he would take a pencil between his fore-finger and thumb, resting his little finger upon the malar bone. The first thing which the operator then does is, to make what is called the punctuation of the cornea. He introduces the point of the instrument at the distance of half a line from the anterior junction of the cornea with the sclerotic coat, and passes it in a direction nearly parallel to the iris, and before it with a little ob- liquity, through the anterior chamber to the opposite or nasal side. In making the section of the cornea, the knife should be carried onwards, without any downward motion ; and as soon as the section is completed, the lid should be allowed to drop over the fore part of the eye, to prevent the escape of a portion of vit- reous humour, if there should be any spasm of the part, or any un- steady motion of the patient. The operator waits till the eye is quiet, and then intioduces the curved needle with a convexity under the flap of the cornea ; and turning the point towards the fore part of the capsule, moves it upwards ami downwards and la- terally from side to side, making a sort of crucial incision. He then squeezes out the cataract by making gentle pressure on the globe above and below, until the lens is lifted from its bed, and passes through the opening of the cornea upon the cheek of the patient. All that then remains to be done is to examine whether there are any opaque fragments of the lens left; if there are, they must be scooped out by the curette ; if not, the upper lid is to be rubbed over the surface of the cornea. If there is any portion of opaque membrane remaining, it must be removed by the forceps and in this way the operation will be completed. (The learned gentleman proceeded to perform the operation exactly in the man. ner above described, on the sheep’s eye ; which, he observed, was better adapted for this purpose than the human eye, on account of its being larger and less (laccid.)