454 PIl.F.S rlioea : so that opposite causes occasionally produce Uie sane effect. It very often arises from disettse of the liver, and con- {{estion of the veins in the intestinal canal. The difficulty of transmitting the blood through the vena portas occasions a con- gestion in the hemorrhoidal veins ; and obstructed secretions in the intestinal canal lead to the same effect. It is a very common consequence of phthisis pulmonalis ; the subjects of that disease are very commonly, sooner or later, the subjects of internal piles, with prolapsus ani. When piles have existed for a considerable length of time, excrescences are produced in consequence of in- flammation. There are three different states of the rectum under this dis- ease ; Crst, as it is affected by external piles ; secondly, by inter- nal piles, accompanied by prolapsus ani; and, thirdly, by ex- crescences, which are the remnants of the piles and which possess a high degree of vascularity. The mode in wiiich these excres- cences are produced is as follow :—The inflammation of the pile glues the sides of the veins together : adhesive matter is poured out, which becomes organized, and a hard swelling, in which there is a number of vessels, is produced. 'J'hese excrescences project from the surface a little way up the anus, which is chafed and rendered extremely irritable from this cause. Here are pre- parations in which you will have an opportunity of seeing them hanging in festoons several inches from the extremity of the anus. With respect to the treatment of this disease, if you are con- sulted for external piles, and find a livid projection at the anus, which has existed only for a short time, and yields readily to pressure, vou should give some active aperient, avoiding care- fully, however, auy purgative which has a particular influence on the rectum, as, for example, aloes. You should give castor oil, or sulphate of magnesia, with infusion of senna, so as to pro- duce a copious secretion from the intestines ; where you wish for a secretion of bile from the liver, give the subrauriate of mer- cury, or the blue pill, with saline purgatives. In this way you relieve the veins of the intestinal tube, and remove congestion. In addition lo this you will apply leeches to the swollen part; the best local application is the liquor plumbi subacetalis dilutus. In this way you will generally succeed in getting liJ of the disease •n this stage. If the pile has continued till it has become solid, you will then pursue a different plan. Put the point of yom