251 ON HERNIA. ration was performed on INIonday, and the hiccough did not leave him till the following Sunday ; during great part of the time there \vas tenderness of the abdomen on pressure. The hiccough then, I again repeat, is not the result of gangrene, but of inflam- mation of the peritoneum or intestine. The treatment you are to pursue is to deplete the patient, and procure copious evacua- tions from the intestines. I will tell you the circumstances to be attended to respecting the return of a hernia: The operation does not prevent the fu- ture descent of the intestine ; but the application of a truss early prevents it from beiiig so large. The patient should be kept in bed for some time after the operation, and good granulations be produced. Dossils of lint should be applied and a truss, so as to make pressure, and close the upper part of the sac. Never let the patient rise from bed without a truss to press on the sides of the sac. It has been proposed to cut away the hernial sac, in order to produce a more rapid cure. The hernial sac has been cut away ; and I will relate to you a case in which you will have an opportunity of seeing the result of this treatment: Mr. Holt, an intelligent surgeon, sent for me to go with him to Tottenham, as he was going to perform the operation for strangulated hernia ; I went, and Mr. Holt operated ; all the steps of the operation were well performed. When the stricture was divided and the parts returned, Mr. Holt said, “ What shall we do with the hernial sac, for it appears quite detached and isolated !" 1 stated that I •bought it would be a fine opportunity for ascertaining the result of cutting away the hernial sac. It was removed at the neck, and in three weeks from this, hearing that the woman was out of bed, I called on her; she was up and had a truss on. On examining the part, I found that there was a rupture as large as that before the operation, nay larger, and that there was no adhesion of the mouth of the sac. - The cutting away of the hernial sac is quite useless. Plans have been proposed of introducing gold wire for the purpose of dividing the hernial sac at the mouth, also of rubbing the parts with certain substances for the purpose of exciting adhesive in- flammation ; but all these proposals are mere quackeries. One of those fellows who are in the habit of publishing their cures of hernia, and their methods of preventing the future descent of th? hernial sac, called upon me, and asked whether I would like to go and see a patient of his, whom he had cured by rubbing the