ON OVARIAN OR ENCYSTED DROPSY. 411 hands of a judicious practitioner, this mediclae will be found truly valuable ; it must, however, be exhibited to those only who have strength, and in no instance to the aged and infirm, unless in exceedingly small doses. An operation, called para- centesis, or tapping, is occasionally performed for the purpose 'of relieving ascites, and this operation every now and then succeeds iu removing the disease ; this happy result can only occur in such cases where the disease has been the effect of debilitv, arising from some kind of fever, or from the abuse of mercury. If the operation should not cure, it will tend materially to diminish the . sufferings of the patients, by re- lievtng the load under which they labour, and by removing, in great measure, the difficulty of breathrng, 'caused by the water accumulating to such an extent as to press upon the lower surface of the diaphraghm ; the removal of the water un- der these circumstances jvill likewise afford a better opportunity for the trial of medicines; this operation has also produced a riermanent cure, when such a result was totally unexpected on the part of the medical practitioner. I recollect the case of a young man at Guy’s, who had recovered from typhus, but who had afterwards an accumulation of water in the abdomen, on which account I was requested to see him by the late Dr. Mar- cel. Ha had anasarca as well as ascites ; I tapped his abdomen for the ascites, and punctured the lower part of the abdomen and insides of the thighs, for the anasarca. This young man was in an exceedingly weak state, and I did not imagine he would have recovered. I met Dr. Marcet three weeks afterwards, who asked me what I thought had become of the patient whom I had tapped 1 I replied that I did not know ; probably, I said, he has died. “ No,” said Dr. Marcet, “ he is perfectly cured, and if you like you can see him.” This, gentlemen, was a most for- tunate case, but the greatest misfortune is, that such cures seldom occur. The next subject on which I shall speak is the OvxHixN OK Escysted Dnorsv. One of the principal differences that exists between this and the former disease is, that the ovarian dropsy is entirely lo- cal : a person may be attacked by it who is in perfect health, fideed the health of the female may be as good when she has this disease as a man’s may be when he has hyJrjcele,