SYPHILIS affecting THE NOSE. 569 cury, instead of assisting the exfoliation which is going on, adds to the inflammation, and produces other and most extensive ex- foliations. Under proper treatment, no person, perhaps, ever lost his nose from syphilis, but the instances are very numerous in which this loss has arisen from the abuse of mercury. To pre- vent the great deformity which will arise in such cases, if an opening be formed through the skin in the upper part of the nose, a probe should be introduced, to feel for the loose ossa nasi, which should be removed by a pair of forceps. The nose will be somewhat altered ; there will be some deformity, but not that horrible deformity \vhich ensues, if the skin is allowed to give way in the upper part of the nose. Evaporating lotions should at the same time be employed, to prevent ulceration taking place through the skin. I witnessed, very early in life, a most unfor- tunate case of disease of the nose, which was occasioned by mal- treatment, and which ruined the happiness and prosperity of the individual to whom it occurred. This person had embarked in business with the greatest possible degree of success, and his prospects were of the most flattering description. He retired, for a time, from his business, in consequence of a sore in his nose, (accompanied with incrustations) which was believed by his sur- geon to have been in the first instance syphilitic. A slight mer- curial course was employed for his cure, and he got apparently well ; but a short time after, the discharge from his nose re- turned. This led the surgeon to think that he had not been com- pletely cured, and he accordingly put him upon a second course of mercury. Extensive exfoliations took place ; and the bridge of his nose was sunk. Under these circumstances, he became ashamed of appearing in business, and was under the necessily of consigning it to other hands. 'J'he disease of the nose was still not entirely subdued, and he was put under a third course of mercury. This led to the inflammation of the skin, the ossa nasi separated through it, and the most horrible deformity was produced. ITie state of his breath, and the smell issuing from his nose, were most offensive ; he was obliged to seclude himself from all society, his prospects in life were completely ruined, his business went to decay, and he died in poverty and wretchedness. As these circumstances occurred to a man in a higher state of society than that in which we usually meet with such deplora- ble cases, they made a strong impression on my mind. Be upon