aT4 ON inflammation of the conjunctiva. complaint, because they do not differ from the predisposing causes of inflammation in any other part of the body. I shall only mention, therefore, some of the causes which most fre- quently produce irritation in the eye, and lead to inflammation of the conjunctiva. Any extraneous body lodging in the conjunctiva will produce this effect; and th.s is so frequently the cause of in- flammation, that it will be right in all cases carefully to examine its surface, in order to ascertain whether there is any extraneous body in it, such as a particle of dust or sand, a piece of grit or lime, or any of the scoriie which ten fly ofl’from iron while it is beaten on the anvil. Any extraneous body of this kind will readily produce irritation, and inilammation of the conjunctiva. Variation of temperature, especially when accompanied with any sudden access of light, will produce this inflammation. Thus it has often happened that persons who have gone out of a warm room to look at fire-works have been attacked with it. The change of temperature, together with the brilliant light to which the eye is exposed, seem to produce it. Persons sitting in a hot room, or a theatre where there is much light, and exposed at the same time to a draught of cold air, have often had inflammation of the conjunctiva. So particular states of the atmosphere will become in some degree excitants of this inflammation, and it has been observed to be more frequent during the prevalence of east- erly winds. There seems to be some ground for this opinion. Other causes of this inflammation may exist, but it Ls not neces- sary to enumerate them more at large. The principal causes are, the admission of any extraneous body and variations of temperature, especially if accompanied by intense heat and light, or partial exposure to draughts of cold air. I have said that this inflammation is either acute or chronic, let us consider in what the chronic stage of it consists. The term chronic is not, as its etymology would lead you to suppose, applied merely with reference to duration of time ; it is not only applied to signify that state of congestion and debility of vascular action produced by the acute stage, but it is also applied to that state of inflammation which from the co nmencement has a character of atony and debi- lity. As this is the more frequent form in which you will find thisin- flammat ion, whether primary or following the acute stage, it is neces- sary to attend particularly to the symptoms by which it is distin- guished, as the mode of treatment is very different from tliat which is required in acute inflammation. The syraploias of