ON HERNIA, 256 while at the same time it does not make such a degree of pressure as to give any interruption to the passage of the faeces. When this hernia is strangulated, the operation for it differs in some respects from that required for inguinal hernia in the male. When you have made your incision upon the hernia below the ring. J"’u will find that the peritoneal bag does not contain either intestine or omentum, and that nothing but a little water escapes. 1 his leads you to slit up the abdominal ring, and on putting your finger within it, you will find something contained within the sac, above the ring ; this is generally intestine, but sometimes a portion of omentum descends with it All the cases of inguinal hernia in the female which I ha e seen have been intestinal. Having divided the tendon of vhe external oblique, you will find a convolution of intestine has descended and you will then look for the stricture, which you will generally find about two inches above the abdominal ring. In the male, the inguinal canal is consi- derably shortened by the approximation of the upper* to the lower opening, but in the female the canal undergoes little alteration, and you will in general therefore find the orifice of the hernial sac at the distance of at least two inches from the abdominal ring. Having slit up the tendon of the external oblique from an inch to an inch and a half, and directed your assistant to draw it up, you will put a director within the sac, feel for the stric- ture, and dilate it upwards or outwards towards the spinous pro- cess of the ilium. The general nile is to divide it upvards, but it may be divided outwards with safety, as there is no danger in this case of cutting the epigastric artery, which is on the inner side. The last case of strangulated hernia, in the female, which I saw at Guy’s, was one under the care of Mr. Forster, and it was a very embarrassing one. When Mr. Forster had made his incision below the abdominal ring, he was surprised at observing a gush of water; and finding no appearance of either intes- tine or omentum, he doubted at first for a moment whether the disease was any thing more than a cyst containing water j but on insinuating his finger into the abdominal ring, which he did with some difficulty, he found a considerable bag above it. Upon slitting up the abdominal ring, and the tendon of the external oblique towards the spine of the ilium, he found a "very small convolution of intestine embraced at the orifice of the hemiai bag, which was the seat of the stricture. He introduced a di- rector, dilated the stricture, and this patient did extremely well.