ON FUNGOID DISEASE OF THE TESTICLE. 431 cular, while in others blood-vessels are not received. On dis- secting it you will find a portion occupied by blood not very firmly coagulated, and a portion b}' adhesive matter poured out by inflammation, which resembles brain in a putrid state; in a part of the swelling will be found cysts containing a serous fluid. The scirrhous and fungoid tumours are the only malignant diseases to which the testicle is subject. The operation may be performed with a hope of success, if the patient be entirely free from olher complaints, but in a great majority of the cases which I have seen, the disease has returned. Here is a pre- paration taken from a patient in whom the disease did not re- turn : in this case the disease was in the earliest' stage in which I have seen it. There are, in general, tubercles of a fungoid character in other parts of the body, which destroy, notwith- standing all that can be done by alterative medicines, after the operation. We may sometimes prevent the disposition to the formation of this disease by giving alterative medicines, but no medicine with which w’e are acquainted has any power over it when it is once formed. Do not, therefore, go over the same treatment which experience has shown to be ineffectual, but try, amidst the great variety of new powers with which the disco- veries of modern chemists have furnished medicine, whether some of these new substances may not have a specific effect in this disease. I do not mean to say, that by giving alterative medi- cines, so as to improve the general health, you may not prevent the disposition to the formation of the disease, but that scirrhous and •fangoid diseases are specific actions, which, when they are once tngendered in the constitution, we know of no medicine to coun- jeract. He who says we do, is an empiric, and an imposter. Having mentioned these two diseases, which are, in a great degree, uncontrollable by our profession, I will now call your attention to a complaint which is often mistaken for them, but which is extremely easy of cure—I mean a complaint which may be called chronic enlargement of the testicle. You may say the other diseases are chronic ; true, they are chronic, but then they are specific diseases. The disease to which I now allude, I shall call simple chronic enlargement of the testicle. It often happens that a person consults a surgeon under the following circum- stances ; he comes to you with a considerable enlargement of his testicle, which feels extremely hard, and which you might sup-