ACIJTE A?in CIIKOKIC AliSCESS. 68 LECTURE X. Acute and Chronic Abscess. At the conclusion of our last lecture, gentlemen, we stated that the danger attending the formation of abscesses arose from their size, number, and pressure on important parts ; and lastly, that when they formed in important parts themselves, they generally proved destructive to life. Another danger which we did not then mention is, when ab- scesses occur between bones and the covering of bones. When- ever bones form the boundary of abscesses, such abscesses are exceedingly tedious, and in most cases dangerous. Thus it is in psoas abscess : in this disease the matter begins to collect on the fore part of the vertebrse, and proceeding through the hollow of the psoas muscle till it reaches the groin, where it makes its ap- pearance just below Poupart’s ligament; and from examination of these cases after death, the vertebrae are found ulcerated. It is not my intention this evening to enter into the consideration of psoas or lumbar abscesses, as they will be treated of on another occasion, but I just mention the complaint to show the danger of abscesses between bones and their coverings j and the reason of it is, that the process of exfoliation takes place, and they then become very long and tedious in their progress. Abscesses are acute or chronic. The common course an acute abscess takes is three weeks. The adhesive inflammation first begins; this is succeeded by the suppurative : and, lastly, the ulcerative process comes on ; and it is generally three weeks from its commencement before matter is discharged. But chronic ab- scesses are slower in their march ; take, for instance, the psoas mat- ter abscess, to which we have alluded ; it is often six months before it makes its appearance in that complaint. If a person comes to you with a psoas abscess, and you ask how long he has had pain in his loins, he will tell you for four, five, or six months past; seldom less than four, and generally for the space of six months. There are varieties in the irritability of different constitutions, but if you see a man with swelling in the groin, which, when he coughs, rebounds under your hand, and has a fluctuating feel, and who has had for four or five months pam in his loins, you will say that it is psoas abscess; so these are the criteria by which you are to know it. Chronic abscesses sometimes occur in the female breast.