254 ON HERNIA. the force I could venture louse could not return the whole By dividing the stricture, however, the mnn was relieved from the symptoms under which he had previously laboured. Oh the following morning, when I visited tlje patient, I found that he had a very bad cough, in consequence of which the contents of the abdomen had been thrown again into the sac, and the hernia was as large as when I performed the operation. There were no symptoms of strangulation, however; the portion of intestine was easily returned into the abdomen by pressure ; and I had ultimately the satisfaction of seeing this man discharged from the hospital perfectly cured. I have performed this operation three times: in two cases successfully ; in one of them the patient afterwards died of peritoneal infiammation. All you have to do is, to bring the edges of the wound together, and let the hernia, if large, remain. The patient, whose case I just mentioned wears a bag-truss, and is in the habit of coming to Launday’s to get a new truss, which is made to lace so as to reduce the size of the hernia. If I had a large hernia strangulated, this is the opera- tion which I would have performed. Hernia in the Inguinal Ganal. There is a small hernia that occurs above the abdominal ring, and does not emerge through it at all, which is equally as danger- ous ns a hernia of twenty times its magnitude. I'his is a case which it is difficult to ascertain in the living subject. A patient will come to you with symptoms of strangulated hernia, and you find- a fulness on one side above the abdominal ring, which is not observable on the other; tenderness upon pressure of the part where the fulness is, and a great disposition to vomit. The ope- ration which it will be necessary to perform in this case is, to make an incision along the course of the inguinal canal, a little obliquely above the abdominal ring, so as to avoid making the opening large. .The incision through the integuments lays bare the tendon of the external oblique; 'having laid bare this tendon, and made an incision through it, the hernia immediately appears projecting through the edges of the wound. The hernial bao- is covered by a tendinous process, which passes from the upper aperture, from which the hernia proceeds. As soon as the hernial sac is laid bare, a little fluid escapes ; you will find the stricture at the orifice. Here is a beautiful preparation (exhibiting it lo the class) in which you see the stricture, and