129 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. ■^ilh extravasation of blood. By the knowledge of these facts we are led, without difficulty, to the principles of treatment. Treatment of Concussion.—The great danger which we have to guard against, in the treatment of concussion, is infiammadon of the brain. This pnnciple must direct our practice ; and in order to prevent inflammation, we must take away a very con- siderable quantity of blood. By bleeding largely at first, we not only remove existing inflammation, but we prevent tliat which would otherwise occur. This practice, however, may be carried to excess. There are some persons who say you cannot bleed too much in these cases ; but such an assertion only proves their want of understanding. You must regulate your conduct by the symptoms; observe whether there be any hardness in your patient’s pulse, and whether he complains of pain in the head, if he have still the power of complaining ; watch your pa- tient with the greatest possible anxiety ; visit him at least three times a-day, and if you find any hardness of the pulse superve- ning, after the first copious bleeding, take away a tea cupful of blood ; but do not go on bleeding him largely, for you would by these means reduce the strength of your patient too much, and prevent the reparative process of nature. It is necessary that there should be a slight degree of inflammation, for witliout this, the reparative process cannot go on, and the patient cannot re- cover ; but it will be your duty to keep this inflammation within due bounds. I shall mention a case in which fatal consequences ensued from the error committed by the surgeon in bleeding his patient to such excess, that the slight degree of inflammation necessary to the process of adhesion was removed, and tire re- parative process of nature consequently prevented. In these lectures, gentlemen, I feel it to be my duty to de- scribe to you surgery as it is—and not in the glowing colours in which it is paiinted to you in books. You must be content to practise surgery as it is—not as is sometimes fallaciously repre- sented to you. I am most anxious that you should omit nothing which may contribute to increase your professional skill, and enable you to aflbrd the greatest possible sum of relief to the sufferings of your patients ; but they who blazon forth our pro- fession as one which is attended with undeviating success, are only deceiving you. You must hear the untoward cases of your profession, as well as those of which the issue is favourable, in order to form a correct judgment in your minds of what your