593 ON SCROFULA. action to the system. The first object is to make better blood, and without this nothing else will be of avail. I cannot suffici- ently deprecate the system of ordering vegetable food in scrofu- lous diseases, and proscribing animal food, which is most nutri- tious and easy of digestion. Vegetable food is more difficult oi digestion than animal food, and many animals who live on it have more than one stomach to perform the different processes of digestion ; some have only one, but then they are abundantly supplied with gastric juice, which is secreted in greater quanti- ties than iu man: and nature adds to the digestive powers by setting up another process in the intestine below, when animals have only one stomach. Vegetable food should not be given to children labouring under scrofula, as it leads to an aggravation of the complaint; but meat should be allowed, prepared so that the stimulus of the gastric juice, which is weak, may be able to act on it. The stomach should never be overloaded, or the powers of digestion will be impaired. Meat should be taken in small quantities, and often, rather than in large quantities and less frequently; for, when the stomach is less loaded, digestion goes on much better. Therefore, I advise that they should break- ^t between eight and nine, and take an egg or a little meat at liis meal. They should have a sandwich about twelve or one o’clock, and meat with their dinner at three. It is right that they should drink with their dinner, although water is a bad beverage; some good beer, or a glass of wine, should be allowed. This will stimulate the secretion of the gastric juice, and diges- tion will be more completely performed than if no stimulous at all had been used. It is well known that in these complaints the stomach is not supplied with a sufficient quantity of juice to dissolve the food; therefore you must give some slight stimulus to excite the gastric juice. If you observe the animals around ns, which live on animal and vegetable food, you will find that after meals they lap some water, and rest. Rest rppoars to be conducive to the performance of the digestive process. An ex- periment has been made which confirm-s this opinion. Two pointers were fed, each with the same quantity of food; the one was immediately put out to hunt, and the other conducted to the feennel, and in two or three hours afterwards both were killed. The first had not digested the food he had taken, whilst the other I fiad. Animal food should be given in larger quantities to per- ■ ff,m with scrofulous di.sease than to those in a state of heaitli, I although the latter do not require the same aid to assist digcs* 2g