558 ON SYPHILITIC BUBO. syphilis. The symptoms produced when a bubo goes into a state of suppuration, are the s.ame as those which take place in com- mon abscess, with this exception, that there are evening exacer- bations ; and, in this respect, precisely the same effect is pro- duced as when syphilis attacks any other part of the body, the exacerbations coming on in the afternoon, and generally lasting till two or three in the morning. The symptoms, then, are the same as those of common abscess, with the exception of even- ing exacerbations. When you are consulted about a bubo, you are led to suspect that it is venereal, by the following circum- stances:—You ask the patient if he has a sore on the penis; if there be none, and he has never had one, your opinion ought to be, that the bubo is not syphilitic. There is no example of ve- nereal bubo ever having occurred without a sore. If there'be no sore at the time you see the patient, you inquire how long it is since he has had one? If he answers, a^^«eek, a fortnight, or even three weeks ago, still the swelling may be syphilitic: it is not at all necessary for the sore to exist at the time the bubo ap- pears, for the irritation of the gland may occur a fortnight or three weeks aftei the appearance of the sore. The swelling may be retarded from various circumstances, if the patient has a diarrhoea on him, or has taken opening medicine; these, and many other causes, may delay its appearance. The next circum- stance to which you direct your attention is, whether the en- larged gland is situated at Poupart’s ligament, or below it; you know that there are two orders or rows of absorbent glands in the groin. The first row is in the line of Poupart’s ligament, ex- tending nearly from the spinous process of the ilium to the pubis; but below this is another tier, situated at the distance of an inch and a half, or two inches, from the first. If the swell- ing be in a line with Poupart’s ligament, you may decide tliat it is a syphilitic bubo; but you may determine that it is not sy- philitic if it be in the lower order. When you see a swelling in the groin, about an inch and a half below Poupart’s ligament, you inquire if there be any sore on the foot or leg, or any irri- tation on the back or nates; for, in such cases, the glands are generally affected. The lower order of the glands are more frequently affected from any irritation on the thigh and leg than on the back of the nates, because the greater number of the ab- sorbents from these lust parts terminate in the upper row of ab- sorbent glands. You determine that it is not syphilitic if the