«60 FRACTURES OF THE KNEE-JOINT evaporating lotion continued; and, when the tension has sub- sided, you may apply your bandages. The mode generally adopted is, to pass a roller from the foot to the knee, to prevent the swelling of the leg; then rollers are applied above and below the joint, under which a piece of broad tape is passed on each side, which crosses the rollers at right angles, and, by tying these, the upper portion is brought down towards the lower. But the plan which I like best is this:—^Buckle a leather strap around the thigh, above the fractured portion, and from this another strap should be passed beneath the foot, the leg being kept ex- tended, and the foot raised : this strap is brought up on the other side of the knee, and buckled to the circular strap above the knee ; a roller should also be applied on the leg. After keeping the limb in this position five weeks, you may begin to use slight passive motion, taking great care, however, not to do too much, as you would separate the ligamentous union which had been formed. You may increase this from day to day, until the limb can be bent perfectly. The smallest distance at which I have known it to unite is half an inch, and the greatest distance seven inches; a moderate distance is one or two inches. It sometimes happens that, from the degree of separation, the patient loses the command over the motions of the leg j and, in such cases, you must exercise the extensor muscles by letting the patient swing his legs over a table, in order to accommodate the muscles to their new line of action. Unless this be done, or passive motion be used, the patient can never recover the use of the limb. In the longitudinal fracture the bone also unites by ligament. I have seen it unite by bone, but it was rather a fissure than a fracture. The treatment will be to apply leeches and evaporat- ing lotions; in a few days a roller should be applied, and then a iaced cap, with a strap to buckle above and below the knee, with ii pad on each side of the patella, to * ling the parts as nearly as possible into contact. Compound Fractures of the PateU are very dangerous acci- dents, frequently proving fatal to life, from the violent degree of constitutional irritation which they occasion. They are generally recovered from by the following treatmentBring the integu- ments together by a small suture, apply adhesive straps round the knee, evaporating lotions on the fore-part, and the limb extended by a splint pa,ssed beneath. Whenever a joint is laid open, except by valvular ojiening, that wound is dilficult to heal, from the flowing of the synovia, and is, therefore, very difficult