TREATMENT OF CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. SI stoim ; and if your medicines are attended by violent actions, you will do harm instead of good. The principle on which this dis- ease depends is the same as in acute inflammation, viz. the arrest of the secretions. Chronic inflammation is frequently produced through the influence of the mind; thus, long-continued grief will completely stop the secretion of bile ; again, loss of appetite, from a deficient secretion of gastric juice, is often occasioned by anxiety of mind ; and even an ulcerated state of the stomach has been produced by a long continuance of the same cause. But let what wall cause the stoppage of the secretion, some enlarge- ment will be the result; as swelling of the liver, of the testicles, or of the joints ; the formation of common tumours, as the fatty, or those of a specific kind, as the fungous. In diseases of a chronic kind, give calomel and opium ; and I cannot point out to you a better example of their good effects than is observable in chronic inflammations of the iris. A person comes into the hospital with iritis; he has a zone of red vessels round the cornea, on the sclerotic coat, and there are red or yellow spots on the iris ; if the complaint has been violent, the spots are red, from their having become vascular. You give this patient five grains of calomel, and one grain of opium, twice a-day for a fortnight, and he generally gets well. Yet this disease was for- merly considered incurable. If the patient be a female, or of a delicate constitution, then two or three grains of calomel will be found sufficient; and when the mouth becomes decidedly af- fected, you will perceive an alteration in the appearance of the iris, when you should lessen your dose; a profuse salivation is not necess^, and, if long continued, would aggravate rather than relieve the local disease. The most common medicine, and probably as a general one the best that is administered in chronic inflammation; is Plummer’s pill; it acts at one and the same time on the secretions of the liver, intestines and skin, and if you can succeed in restoring these, the disease, if recent, will soon disappear ; the absorbent vessels are roused into a state of increased activity, and the effects of the chronic inflammation are removed. Another excellent medicine for the cure of chronic complaints IS the oxyrnuriate of mercury, combined with the compound de- coction of sarsaparilla. In the hospitals we merely give it dis- solved in rectified spirits of wine ; about one-eighth of a grain, in half-a-pibt of the decoction, to be taken in the course of a day ;