ON CALCULI IN THE BLADDER. 836 bladder are pain towards the extremity of the penis, opposite to the fra:num, discharge of bloody urine ; sudden arrest of the water during the flow of a full stream, and a frequent disposition to void the urine, and pain in doing it, particularly in the erect position. Persons with stone are frequently obliged, when they make water, to rest their heads against something, to bend their arms and legs, and thus discharge their urine. There is a dis- position also to void the fmces at the time of making water, as the rectum obeys the motion of the bladder. In some cases the abdominal muscles are affected with violent spasms. First, per- sons are affected with violent spasms of these muscles—then have disease of the mucous membrane of the bladder—and frequent shiverings. This is so common a sjrmptom occurring with stone in the bladder, and is so well known, that it will be unnecessary to dwell on it. One curious circumstance, generally observed when there is stone in the bladder, is an elongation of the pre- puce, particularly in boys. This is singular, and not easily ex- plained, unless it is produced by pressure on it when the pain at the extremity of the penis comes on; for as the pain in this part is an exceedingly distressing symptom, and pressure on the nerve deadens it, it is made, and the prepuce thus becomes elon- gated by it. Having thusgone over the symptoms of stone, we shall now say a few words on the size, number, form, &c., of the stones found in the bladder. Calculi are formed in the bladder around some extraneous body, which gets into it, and which is the nucleus, or about clots of blood; or the stones pass from the kidneys to the ureters, and enter the bladder. Some stones are composed of concentric lamellse, whilst others are not; in those which are, layer after layer is deposited and ad- heres, but the lamellae are composed of much firmer materials than the bond of adhesion which unites them. The nuclei, around which stones form, are various ; here is one (exhibiting it to the class), as you see, composed of a needle ; you will say, no doubt, that this must have been swallowed, and that passing through the intestines, it entered the bladder through the rec- tum. I will tell you how itgot there. A nurse, who had the care of a child, put it to sit on a mat upon its naked bottom ; and it imme- diately began to cry; when the nurse, out of humanity, I suppose, took it up, and danced it well in her arms ; the more the child screamed, the more the nurse danced it. A few months after this it had symptoms of stone, and it was ascertiancd that there was one