92 ON ULCERS. arterial blood in the vessels with which they are supplied. Here the granulations are of a beautiful florid red: this, then, is a most useful remedy. Oiled-silk should be applied to the wound, so as to prevent the smell arising from the parts tainting the room ; for it is al- ways considerable when the process of sloughing is taking place, and gi-anulations are arising; an advantage, though a slight one, compared with the others, in the use of the nitric acid, is, that the offensive smell is nearly taken away by it, the sulphuretted hydrogen is destroyed. Another very good application to sores of this kind is nitre, in the proportion of one drachm to a pint of water ; this agrees very well with the sore, and has the same effect, though in a diminished degree. It appears that all the combina- tions of the nitric acid are good. Sulphuric acid is of use also in these cases, six drops of the acid to an ounce of water. 'Hie muriatic acid has not the same effect as the other two. If nitric acid be applied to the wound, the granulations will assume a red and healthy look ; if the sulphuric be, they will have nearly the same appearance ; but if the muriatic acid be put to the wound, it will be seen that it will have a comparatively slight effect on the granulations, and, therefore, it is an inferior remedy in the treatment of these wounds. Poultices made of port wine, porter, dregs of lees, yeast, a large spoonful'of it to a pint of meal, may be all used. Gentlemen, you must have recourse to a great variety of applications ; for, after you have tried one, which at the beginning did good, you will, from the wound getting worse under its use, be obliged to change it for another, and so on. There is at this time a girl in the other hospital with sloughing of the pudendum j a variety of means have been used, all of which, at the outset, relieved her a little ; but none con- tinued to do her good for any length of time, and she will, most probably, in the end, fall a victim to the disease ; it is upon this account that I mention to you so many remedies. The carrot- poultice is also a very good application. The constitution of the patient must be attended to, or else, the local means wall do very little ; therefore, local applications must be aided by constitu- tional remedies; and what is the best medicine you can adini- uisler ■)—opium and ammonia, gentlemen ; twenty drops of tinc- ture of opium, three times a-day, with ten grains of the ammonia, in an ounce and a half of camphor mixture, and a little (one drachm) of compound tincture of cardamon.