656 FRACTURES OF THE NECK OF THE THIGH-BONE. wear the strap round the pelvis; and he thus recovers, with a useful but shortened limb. Of Fractures through the Trochanter Major.—Fractures through the trochanter major are generally oblique, and they may happen without any injury being at the same time done to the neck of the borle. They happen at any period of life, and are marked by the following symptoms: the limb is very little, and sometimes not at all shortened; there is a numbness in the foot; the patient cannot turn in bed without assistance, and the attempt is pro- ductive of great pain. The trochanter is sometimes drawn forwards towards the ilium, sometimes it falls towards the tube- rosity of the ischium, but is generally widely separated from that portion of the bone remaining in connexion with the neck The foot is greatly everted, and the patient cannot sit, as any attempt to do so produces very great pain. You can feel a crepitus with great difficulty, if the detached portion of the trochanter be either much fallen, or much drawn forwards. This fracture unites very firmly, and the patient recovers a good use of the limb. This accident then, it appears, may be easily known by the separation of the bone at the fractured part, so that the finger may be placed between the fractured portions ; by the crepitus, felt by putting the fingers on the trochanter when the knee is advanced; by the upper portion of the trochanter not following the motions of the lower, and of the shaft of the bone; and when at the lower part of the trochanter, by the great over- lapping and distention; it is followed by an excessive deposit of callus. The treatment of this accident is much the same as that of the former: you should pass a wide bandage round the pelvis, and keep the limb extended, and the patient in the horizontal posi- tion, in the way before pointed out. Sometimes the bone is fractured just beneath the trochanter, and the deformity produced by this accident is very great, which is caused by the upper end of the bone being drawn upwards by the action of the psoas magnus and iliacus intemus. The proper way to treat it is by raising the thigh over an inclined plane, and elevating the trunk to about an angle of 45 degrees. In this manner you bring the ends of the bone in apposition, but you should not attempt to depress the upper end of the bone, as it only increases the patient's ' ’ sufferings to no purpose. I shall next speak of | I