ON HERNIA 267 required operation; I met with the medical man, the next day, who operated, and asked him how he had succeeded ; he stated that he had had great difficulty. The fact was, that he had not been aware of the existence of the crural sheath, which he had mistaken for the peritoneal covering and that the hernia was returned into the abdomen, together with its sac. The femoral vein was wounded in the operation, which also greatly confused the parts. The symptoms remained the same, and on the fol- lowing day the patient died. On examination, it was found that the hernia had been returned into the abdomen without the her- nial sac ever being cut through ; and this arose in consequence of the surgeon not being aware of the existence of the crural sheath. The next point is to make an incision into the hernial sac, with the greatest possible care, and then introduce a director to ascertain the seat of stricture. Now, gentlemen, having opened the her- nial sac, and exposed tha intestine, the circumstance to be deter- mined is. in what direction are you to divide the stricture : there is only one mode that I would advise you to adopt in practice, and that is, divide the stricture directly upwards and inwards a little inclined towards the umbilicus. I will first show you how the stricture is to be divided, and then point out the objections to the plan. After introducing the director, a bistoury, blunted at the point, is to be put on it, and placed against the stricture ; in this way there is no danger of wounding the intestine. I he bistoury is to be gently raised, and with a slight touch of the in- strument, the fibres will give way, and the intestine readily return into the abdomen. But it has been recommended to cut in the direction of Gimbernat’s ligament, towards the symphysis pubis ; there will be no necessity for this, as the stricture is not situated at Gimbernat’s ligament; it is never known to be there. The seat of stricture in femoral hernia, is at the crural arch, just w here the intestine leaves the abdomen; and when this is slightly divided, the stricture gives way. and by a little pressure the parts are easily returned. I have known Gimbemat’s ligament divided, under the supposition that it was the seat of stricture, whilst the stricture itself has remained undivided, and the patient died. This shows the folly of stating that Gimbernat’s ligament is the seat of stricture. Whoever dissecU a strangulated femoral hernia will have an opportunity of learning this for himself. Surgeons wdl find that the division of Gimbernat’i ligament will