ON SOLUTION OF THE CATARACT. 316 Another circumstance peculiar to congenital cataract, is the un- steadiness and constant motion of the eye, which it is not difficult to explain. The eye has never been accustomed to have its vision fixed by objects, unless, perhaps, very imperfectly, and conse- quently the will has never been in the habit of influencing the muscles which give direction to the globe of the eye. Hence its unsteady and constant motion. It was formerly deemed advis- able to defer the operation for cataract in children, but Dr. Saunders has introduced a mode of operating in these cases which may be resorted to at any age. This is certainly one of the greatest improvements which has been made in this branch of surgery, not only because vision is extremely important for the purposes of education, but because, if the operation be delayed, a very considerable time will elapse before the patient can ac- quire a command over the eye, in consequence of the want of voluntary influence over the muscles. Another, and more for- cible reason, why this operation should not be delayed, is, that it is an universal law in the economy of nature, that all parts which are not exercised lose more or less of power; and, consequently, the retina, from not being accustomed to receive the impressions of light, loses a considerable portion of its power. Dr. Saunders found that in many cases where this operation had been delayed, the patients retained no more power of vision than was sufficient to enable them to distinguish between light and darkness. The operation may in general be performed with a hope of success between the age pf eighteen months and four years. Dr Saunders’s mode of operating is not confined to the cataracts of children ; it may be employed also in the cataracts of adults, provided they are fluid, soft, or membranous cataracts. 1 do not mean to say that this operation is entirely new ; if you read Mr Pott’s works, you will find that, in some instances, he performed a very similar operation. He tells you that, in cases where the cataract was too soft for depression, he some- times lacerated the anterior layers of the capsule, so as to ailmit the aqueous humour, and procure the solution of the cataract. Hey, Scarpa, and Ware, have performed similar operations. We are not, however, to consider those as the inventors of any practice who have merely employed it here and there, without stating any certain rules for its general applicability. It is to Dr. Saunders that we are indebted for having shewn the princi- ple on which he performed tlii^ particular operation, its appli a-