597 SCROFULOUS GLANDS OF THE N£CK. LECTURE LXVII. Having given you in the'last lecture, a general description nf scrofula, we shall now proceed to treat of the several parts attacked by this disease, and first, of the absorbent glands, most commonly affected. Scrofulous Affecfion of the Glands of the Neck. Of the different absorbent glands, those of the neck are most frequently affected with scrofulous disease. Now, when you are consulted in a case of this kind, the symptoms you find are as follow;—In the first place, you learn from the child’s mother, that she at first observed a swelling in the neck, which was small, hard, not painful, nor in any way discoloured, but tender to the touch. Thus the inflammatory process does not go on to the rapid destruction of the part, for the swelling will frequently remain in this state of indolence during weeks, months, and sometimes years. Sometimes, however, owing to accidental circumstances, or changes in the weather, or the state of the child’s constimtion, the complaint proceeds with greater rapidity. If the complaint occurs in a person of an irritable habit, it will advance with rapidity ; if, on the contrary, the person be of an indolent habit, it will be slow in its progress. AA’hen you examine, by dissection, the state of the parts affected with scrofulous disease, you find extravasated into the gland a great quantity of blood, and the blood-vessels enlarged. The interior of the gland is composed of rather a firm substance, which is of a yellowish-white colour. If you inject the subject first, you will see that the blood-vessels do not pass into the substance effused, in fact, that the adhesive matter is not organized. As the vessels do not shoot into this substance, it does not undergo the same changes as the adhesive matter thrown out in common chronic disease. In common chronic inflammation, the adhesive matter effused may be injected, which shews that it is in some degree organized. Remember, then, that during the adhesive stage, the inflammation may be increased from change of season, climate, or any peculiarity of constitution, and proceed to the suppurative. This disease produces little pus. TIkmo are the common symptoms of suppuration, but in a much milder degree than are usually met with. The suppurative process is weak and languid, and it is a long time before matter forms. The suppura-