INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. 4 wished to perform an operation; and he turned his attention to the surgery boy, who had a bad leg, and said to him, one day, “ Abraham, I should like to cut off your leg”—“Indeed!” said Abraham, “I should not like it.”—“Oh,” said the dresser, “it will never be of any use'to you in its present state, and therefore you had better be without it. I will take a lodging for you; I will give you some money, and you shall be well attended.” The boy’s scruples were overcome; he took the money, went to the lodging; all was fixed, and the operator began: but finding a great discharge of blood, he cried out to his assistant—“ Screw the tourniquet tighter.” He obeyed, but in doing so the screw broke, and at this unforseen accident the dresser lost all presence of mind; he jumped about the room, then ran to the sufferer, and endeavoured to stop the effusion of blood by compressing the wound with his hand, but in vain ; his sleeve became filled with blood, and poor Abraham would have died in a very short time, had not a pupil accidentally called, who had the presence of mind to apply the key of the door to the femoral artery, by com- pressing which he stopped the bleeding, and thus gained time for the application of another tourniquet. Some years ago, one of the dressers at Guy’s Hospital, in bleeding a man, punctured the artery that lay under the vein (a situation which he ought not to have-bled), and before the blood could be stopped, the person lost thirty-seven ounces. One of the surgeons cut down upon the artery at the elbow, and secured it. In doing this, he divided the principal veins; inflam- mation and mortification came on, and death soon followed. I bring forward these examples to impress upon your minds that an imperative necessity exists for making yourselves well acquainted with anatomical science ; vrithout which you cannot conscientiously discharge your duty to society; and it is upon this you must lay the foundation for your future advancement. The parts of the body most essential to be particularly studied, are, the brain, bones, arteries, veins, nerves, and joints. To each of these you must pay particular attention, and make your- •selves well acquainted with its form, situation, and functions; otherwise you will only be exposed to ridicule, and perhaps worse, if, in your practice, you should be ignorant of the nature of these structures. You should know the nature of the human machine well, or how can you pretend to repair itl If you have a watch injured, you will not give it to a tinker to repair—you