ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 131 and eight ounces of blood. One hundred and eignty ounces were taken from the arm ; yet such was the hai dnes.s of the purse, that at the last bleeding there was some degree of inflammation of the brain indicated. You are to use bleeding as a means of preventing inflammation : but you are not to resort to it as a matter of course, the moment you are called to a patient under concussion. A man falls from his horse, and the instant he is picked up from the ground, some surgeons think it necessary to take the lancet from their pocket. This condnet is quite irrational; for suppose -the pulse could scarcely be felt at the wist of the patient, and the surgeon were in such a case asked why he proceeded to bleed ; ■what would his answer be 1 The probability is that he would have no answer at all ready ; or he would perhaps say, that he bled him because the accident had brought a great quantity of blood to the brain ; as if the shaking of the head could have any effect in producing a determination of blood to the brain. It-is not with this view that we bleed in concussion, but in order to prevent inflammation. 1 have seen many a patient who would have died if a large quantity of blood had been taken at the time of the accident. This was the case with the gentleman who was attempting to shave him- self, whose symptoms I described to you this evening. When £ first saw him, his pulse was scarcely perceptible. I took a little blood from the arm, and he was immediately seized with convul- sions, like an epileptic fit, which I thought would have proved fatal. I closed the wound, and I would not upon any account have taken six ounces of blood from him at that moment. Some time ago I saw a man, at the other hospital, who had received a blow on the head. He was pale and dejected, and his pulse could scarcely be felt. I said to the dresser, you must not bleed this man at present: there is rather too little action than too much; wait till the pulse rises, and then bleed him. In the evening re-a«tion took place ; the pulse rose, and the dresser then very properly bled him. Inflammation was by this means prevented, and the man did well. The principle upon which you should act, gentlemen, is never to do any thing in your profession without a good reason, which, whatever may be result of the case, will leave yonr conscience clear. A surgeon who bleeds without being able to assign any other reason than that his patient has received a blow, is not fit to practise his profession, 'The next remetly I come jo is emetics.