201 ON HYDROCELE. tleraen were leaving the theatre, desired them to wait a moment, and he would show them the disease of the testicle. However, upon cutting the part open, tne great bulk proved to be blood, and the testicle was in a perfectly sound state. Such an unfor- tunate occurrence as this a man must for ever lament. The cause of hydrocele appears to depend upon increased secre tion, as the vessels are dilated, though there is generally no in- flammatory action. Inflammation of the testicle will give rise to hydrocele ; for as the inflammation disappears, hydrocele forms. This can gene- rally be removed by exciting absorption ; for which purpose give the pil. hydrarg. submur. comp, and apply to the scrotum a lotion composed of liq. ammon. acet. having dissolved in it some of the ammon. muf. These means will be found to have considerable influence in this hydrocele, which results from inflammation ; but in the other they have none. Hydrocele, if left to itself, will often undergo spontaneous cure. A man was brought into the other hospital with a sloughing of the scrotum, a consequence of an inflammation occasioned by hydro- cele ; the water was, in this case, discharged by a natural pro- cess, and nature performed a radical cure by effecting a perma- nent adhesion of the parts. I shall conclude this lecture by describing to you the pallia- tive treatment of hydrocele, reserving what I have to say on the radical or curative treatment until we next meet. When persons are afraid of the curative treatment, or when it would be attended with inconvenience, as also in old people, the palliative will be demanded. It is a very simple operation, and one which any person can perform. Remember that the testicle is usually two-thirds of the way downwards at the pos- terior part; introduce, therefore, the trocar in the fore part, ob- liquely upwards, indeed almost perpendicularly, to avoid wound- ing the testicle ; but as I have before shown you that the testicle occupies different situations in the tumour, you cannot introduce the trocar with safety until you have ascertained the precise spot where the testicle is lodged, and then of course you will take care to avoid it. Let me observe, that whether you perform the ope- ration for the palliative or curative treatment, withdraw the trocar the instant you believe that the canula is within the tunica vagi- nalis : and once having the trocar in, take care to keep it there until the oj^eration be concluded; and the most effectual way