ON CALCl'LI IN THE KIDNEY, 331 and all means that could be devised have been known to fail in procuring relief from this troublesome symptom. An example of this kind occurred when I lived in the city ; a surgeon called and requested me to see a boy, a patient of his, who had ex- tremely irritable bladder; he stated that he had tried every medi- cine he could think of, and yet could not produce the slightest mitigation of the boy’s sufferings. I saw the child, and prescribed for him ; but, with as little effect, and he ultimately died. I met the practitioner a short time after, who told me that, upon a post- mortem examination, the pelvic, abdominal, and thoracic vis- cera were all healthy, with the exception of one kidney, in which was found a calculus. I have known a stone in the kidney cause severe pain at the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. V In cases of calculi in the kidney, nature generally makes at- tempts to discharge them through abscesses formed in the loins. I had three calculi in my possession, which were discharged in this manner, and as they came directly from the kidney, I was anxious to learn the nature of their composition. I therefore sent them to the late Dr. Marcet, who, upon analyzing them, found that each was composed of the triple ammoniaco-magne- sian phosphate. Calculi in the kidney sometimes produce such a derangement of the constitution, as to occasion the destruction of life ; and, upon dissecting persons who have been thus destroyed, the cal- culi have been met with in various parts of the kidney, in the tubuli uriniferi, infundibula, and in its pelvis. Sometimes cal- culi in the kidney are modelled to the internal form of that gland. It happens thus—when the stone has become of sufficient bulk to fill the pelvis, projections branch off from its body into the in- ifundibula, acquinng the character which you here observe (hold- ng up a preparation). It is not uncommon for a calculus to occasion an absorption of the glandular substance of the kidney, and a stone lodged upon the beginning of the ureter has been known to have produced so complete an absorption of the glandular structure, that no more than a thin membrane has remained. When both kidneys are afiected at the same period, or if they successively become destroyed, death in either case must ensue.