330 ON URINARY CAIXULI. ease about the bones of the nose, a fistulous opening from the sac to the nose is formed. If you should operate in such a case, you must introduce a sharp-pointed instrument, either a probe or a trocar, through the fore part of the os unguis into the nose, and the only point which remains is to keep open the perforation by a sponge tent, or nail-headed style ; but it becomes rarely neces- sary to perform this operation. I have now, gentlemen, conclud- ed Ihe subject of diseases of the eye. LECTURE XXXVIII. On Urinary Calculi. These are found in four different situations in the urinary organs, viz., in the kidney, ureter, bladder, and urethra. The calculi which are discovered in the prostate gland, are not, in general, of the same kind as those met with in the organs which I have just named. ^ Calculi in the Kidney. When a calculus is situated in the kidney, there will be felt considerable pain in the loins, in the vicinity of this organ, and occasionally it will be so very acute, and the part so exquisite- ly tender, that the afflicted person cannot allow even the slight pressure of a clothes-brush over the loins. A physician of my acquaintance informed me that he had witnessed a case of this description, in which the only symptom that served to illustrate the nature of the disease, was the extreme tenderness felt in the loins, and it was so severe that the patient could not suffer his clothes to be brushed over the part; upon examination of his body, after death, a stone was found in the kidney. When a calculus is situated in the kidney, it is often accom- panied by a numbness of the intestinal tube leading from the kid- ney to the navel. There will likewise be felt great pain when in the act of stooping, with frequent inclination to make water. The urine is frequently of a dark colour, from being mixed with blood ; when this appearance is present, coupled with excruci- ating pain round the loins, it will generally happen that the stone is then in the act of descending, and in a few days afterwards you will probably find that it has entered the bladder. When a cal- culus is in the kidney, the stomach is usually very much affected, and frequent vomiting is the consequence. The urinary bladder is often, from the same cause, rendered exceedingly irritable ;