ON SYPHILIS and the USE OF MERCURY'. 585 grain of the oxymuriate of mercury might be detected in water or in blood. The last circumstance, copnected with this subject, to which 1 shall call your attention, is the most important of all, and which is this, viz.—Is any other Medicine but Mercury capable of curing Syphilis 1—Remedy after remedy has been sent forth to the world, as having the power to effect this; ancbnow I will tell you all that I know respecting the matter. Mr. Rose, late of the Guards, now an eminent surgeon at the west end of the town, about eight or ten years ago, very laudably tried numerous inter- esting experiments for the purpose of attempting to cure the ve- nereal disease ; also with a view to ascertain what number of persons would be affected by secondary symptoms if the mercury was not employed. Mr. Rose found that the primary symptoms of syphilis could be rea Jdy cured without the aid of mercury ; and that out of every three patients so treated, one was afflicted witli syphilitic secondary symptoms. Now, gentlemen, I saw Mr. Rose upon the subject; he is a very sensible candid man, and upon whose experiments the ut- most reliance may be placed ; another surgeon says, that two out of every nine have secondary symptoms, making one out of every four and a half. I rely, however, upon the statement made by Mr. Rose. If secondary symptoms did present themselves, they were treated without mercury, and would disappear, would come again, and again disappear-. Still, not being satisfied with this, I said to Mr. Rose, “ Now, sir, if a gentleman were to come under your care, what would you do—would you give him mercury or not? Mr. Rose Ls not like some men, so wedded to his system as to have his mind fettered by prejudice, and he with much sense replied, that he should certainly give the patient mercury ; and, gentlemen, I advise you to do the same. I will not say that those persons are dishonest who recommend contrary practice ; but, if they had seen what I have, 1 am sure they would still place their reliance in the use of mercury. Some men are so prejudiced in favour of particular remedies, that the strongest possible facts which can be brought forward in opposition to their opinions, are not capable of producing the slightest alteration, or even a tran- sient impression of their error. Now for a case in point; A gen- tleman went to a surgeon in the month of January, showed him a sore upon his penis, and asked him what it was; “ VVhv,chan- cre." said the surgeon, “ you must take sarsaparilla.” lie wen