ON POISONS not succeed in cases of poison by arsenic or corrosive sublimate. This 1 do not believe. With respect to arsenic, I am aware that, if it were taken in the solid form, and a considerable portion had fallen on the stomach, it would be impossible to remove it; but, as it is usually taken in powder, I think the instrument is very capable of removing it, because it will be fora considerable time, at least, kept in solution by the mucus wliich is thrown out from the surface of the stomach, and in this state it may be removed. At all events this deserves a trial. They who suppose that the arsenic adheres to the internal coats of the stomach so that it can- not be removed, have never made any experiments sVith the oxide of arsenic ; it does not adhere to the coats, but it is lifted from them by mucus. With respect to the influence of lead, I have but little to observe. In colica pictonum, where we have an op- portunity of observing its effects, no inflammation appears to be produced in the stomach. This disease seems to be entirely spasmodic ; it will be right to administer large quantities of cas- tor oil, and emetics. 1 have known persons suddenly lose the use of one side from the effects of lead. 1 once observed that a boy, who was at work at my house, had paraplegia ; and I asked him how he came to lose the use of his side. “ Why, sir, (said he), very foolishly I had some lead in my pocket, as I was going home to my master’s, and on the road 1 bought some gooseber- ries, and put them into my pocket. I found that tlie mixture of lead only made the fruit sweeter; so I finished my gooseber- ries, and on the following morning 1 lost the use of my side.” I shall conclude this lecture by shewing you the effect of a powerful poison called ticunas, with which the Indians, in the back settlements of Demerara, arm their arrows. There is a very minute portion of the poison on a stick in this little box, which is sufficient, however, to poison every one of you. I shall iasert a small particle, I know not what fraction of a grain, into the cellular tissue of a rabbit, and you will see tliat, in the space of three or four minutes the animal will die, without appearing to .suffer the least pain. It will probably continue to eat the parsley on the table till it dies. [The first rabbit o» which the learned profe.ssor performed the experiment, walked about the table, and partook of his parsley, but declined dying at the end of four minutes. Whether the poi- son were not effectually introduced within the cellular tissue, or whether this rabbit was bles.scd'with an idiosyncra.sy which rca-