DISLOCATIONS OF THE CLAVICLE. 626 office of the clavicle to separate the shoulder widely from the sternum, to allow of more extensive motion. In the reduction of this dislocation, you may use the mode that was employed in the dislocation at the sternal end. Let the knee be put between the patient's shoulders, and draw them backwards and upwards, and the clavicle immediately is brought into its place. Then put a thick cushion into each axilla, to keep the scapula from the side, to raise it, and to prevent the axilla from being injured by the bandages. Then the clavicular bandage is to be applied, and its straps should be broad enough to press upon the clavicle and scapula. The arm should be supported in a short sling, so as to keep the scapula well up. These accidents, with the best treatment, will generally leave some deformity; and it is better, therefore, when first called to the accident, to state this to the patient, as he may otherwise suppose that it has arisen from your negligence or ignorance. You may, at the same time, inform him, that a very good use of the 1 mb will be restored, although a slight alteration of the natural form of the parts may remain, such as a little projection on the sternum, or on the sternal ex- tremity of the clavicle. The humerus is liable to be dislocated in four directions. The first and most common of these is downwards and inwards into the axilla; the bone here rests on the inner side of the inferior costa of the scapula. It may be known by the projection of the acromion, by the natural rotundity of the shoulder being lost, by the deltoid being flattened and dragged down with the head of the bone. The arm is rather longer than the other, and the elbow is carried from the side. Although the arm is longer than natural in a recent dislocation, yet, if the accident has been of some duration, the head of the bone becomes imbedded in the soft parts, and the limb is then shortened. The elbow is with difficulty brought to the side, from the head of the bone being, in this attempt, pressed upon the axillary plexus of nerves, and the patient will generally come to you supporting the arm with the other hand, to prevent its weight pressing upon these nen-es. If the elbow be carried outwards, nearly at right angles with the trunk, the head of the bone can be distinctly felt in the axilla ; but this cannot be done if the elbow be allowed to remain close to the side. The raising the elbow throws the head of the bone downwards, and more into the axilla, and therefore can be more easily felt in the axilla. The motion of the joint upwards and outwards is in a great measure lost, and therefore the patient