182 OPERATION FOR POPLITEAL ANEURI3M. but I liave used the cntgiit ligature in three other cases since, and (lid not find it at all superior to the common ligature: in each of tlie three cases it came away by suppuration and ulceration, as in common cases ; it did not therefore succeed. In the old person tliere was less tendency to inflammation, and that was the reason of it succeeding. I made some experiments on dogs, with a view to ascertain the solubility of catgut. I tied the carotid of a dog, and used the catgut ligature ; in a fortnight after I killed the animal, and found that the ligature had not been dissolved, but that it had cut through the artery, and was situated in a cyst, like that which is formed round a ball, between the divided ends of the vessel, m a quiescent state ; therefore this substance does not admit of solubility, but will remain sometimes without producing irritation. On the whole, catgut ligatures are not at all superior to the common ones. Some animal matter of the form of gluten, made into ligature, might do ; but this is mere conjecture. At present there is no ligature known which is capable of being dissolved and removed by the absorbents. Well, gentlemen, I have made all the observations respecting the improvements in the operation for popliteal aneurism that I in- tended,with the exception of the plan of cutting the ligature close to the knot, and then leaving it to its fate, and to come away as it can , but experience shows that the irritation which is produced by this mode is attended with great mischief. This is the plan JUr. Hunter adopted, when he put the ligature for the first time on the femoral artery, in operating for popliteal aneurism ; the wound closed kindly, and the ligature afterwards came away by suppuration and ulceration. Since Mr. Hunter’s time it has been tried again, but is now nearly given up by all m the profession. On the whole, rest assured, that the best mode of applying the ligature is that now commonly adopted ; tie a tight knot, with a fine ligature, and then cut one end of the ligature close to the vessel, and let the other hang out of the wound. If in the operation the artery has been disturbed much from the surrounding cellular membrane, for an inch or so, apply two liga- tures, and divide the artery in the centre, and there will be room for the retraction of the artery; but if, on the contrary, it has not been much disturbed, apply only the single ligature ; broad ligatures must, however, on no account he used, as they are very likely to produce constitutional irritation, and consequently cause the parts to suffer for a great length of time. When the operation is performed, what you should do is this: