DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. 641 ments of modern surgery, that jiupilt now know much more than their professors formerly did. As a proof of this I can tell you that the dressers of Guy’s Hospital, a short time since, were not only able to distinguish this dislocation, but they knew also how to reduce it, and actually accomplished it, without" even having occasion to send for the surgeon. I have seen the thigh bone dislocated in four directions:— 1, upwards, or upon the dorsum of the ilium ; 2, downwards, or into the foramen ovale; 3, backwards and upwards, or into the’ ischiatic notch ; 4, forwards and upwards, or on the body of the pubis. [The lecturer now mounted a chair, and imitated the position of the dislocated limb in the varieties which he h'ad described.] Another dislocation has been described by some surgeons, namely, downwards and backwards. No such accident has occurred in Guy’s, or at St. Thomas’s Hospital, within the last thirty years, neither have I met with a case of the kind in my private practice. I will not deny the possibility of its happening, but I very much doubt it; and I think there must have been some mistake in the description. First, of the dislocation upwards, or on the dorsum of the ilium ; this happens more frequently than any other dislocation of the hip-joint, and it may be known by the following signs:— The toe rests against the tarsus of the opposite foot; the knee and foot are turned inwards, and the knee is a little advanced i upon the other; the limb is about one inch and a half, or two I inches and a half, shorter than the other, and this may easily be I detected, by comparing the malleoli interni, when the foot is I bent at right angles with the leg. If you try to separate the leg from the other, you find you cannot do it, as the abduction of I the limb is completely prevented, but you may bend the thigh a ) little across the other. The trochanter is less prominent than I on the opposite side, from the neck of the bone and the trochanter j lying in a line with the surface of the ilium ; the roundness of i that side will, therefore, have disappeared. When called to this ! accident, you must expect to find great extravasation, which will I' conceal, in some degree, the situation of the parts ; but by rota- I tion of the knee inwards, the head of the thigh bone may bo felt, I and the trochanter major approaches the anterior superior I' spinous prrx;es3 of the ilium. Well, then, when you are called I to this accident, what you must expect to fiml will be a dilTerence ' in the length of the limb, a change of position inwards, a dimi- 2 T