ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD, 183 principle not of increasing but subduing action, from an excess of which the ill consequences are to be feared. For the symptoms after concussion, the trephine used to be employed: but it now becomes a question whether it ever ought to be resorted to as a means of relief under those cir- cumstances? To this I say, if you were to trephine, you ought to be trephined yourselves in turn. What will tre- phining do ? Probably great harm, by disturbing the brain; and if not, no good can possibly result from it. Now for the proofs : first, that it does no good. Gentlemen^ I never lecture to you but from the recollection of some case that has occurred to me. I was very intimate with a Mr. T. of Yarmouth, where I used to spend a good deal of time when a boy ; after my ap- prenticeship was finished, I went down to this place, and I found Mr. T. labouring under the effects of concussion; his mind was not in the least affected ; he had received a blow on the forehead from a bludgeon, and he was afterwards frequently seized with sickness at the stomach. I called on him : and when I went into the room, I said, I come to ask you how you are : in approaching me he was obliged to put his hand- kerchief to the mouth to prevent the contents of his stomach going over me. In his walks he had frequent vomitings : a re- lation who was at Yarmouth, twelve months after this, said to him, that he had better have the trephine applied, and the portion of bone removed : to which he readily consented. After the operation his symptoms were not relieved ; he re- mained just the same; or I should rather say tliat he was not relieved, for he did not continue long in' the same state ; he soon got worse and worse; his bowels became costive, the powers of the mind affected, and he died in consequence of the operation, though he had lived two years after the injury, before it was performed. Mr. B., now in Yarmouth, was living with him at the time, and he could tell more of the particulars than myself; but this I know, that he was not benefited by the operation, but injured by it. But for a more direct proof that it b dangerous : l)r. Farre told me that he knew a person who was subject to epileptic fits after concussion of the brain, and that he was extremely anxious to be trephined. The operation of trephining was performed, and he died soon af- terwards. Do not think, gentlemen, that I mention thb as an uncommon case; but this used to be the plan adopted with tj-