197 ON HYDROCELE. struck me as being very strange, for I had taken great care to keep the end of the cauula within the tunica vaginalis. I ex- amined ihe remaining swelling ; found fluctuation; then tried- it with a candle, and saw that it was transparent. Well sir, I said, this is water now, introduced the trocar again, a little way from where I did at first, and off it ran. The fluid, in the second instance, had nothing of the yellow appearance of that which is drawn ofT in hydrocele, but on the contrary, was as clear as water. I have before mentioned to you, that the testicle in hydro- cele is commonly situated at the back part, and two-thirds of the way downwards. Here, however, there is a great variety, and it is even sometimes found in front. I will tell you how' this happens. The person is attacked with inflammation in the tunica vaginalis, before any collection of water has taken place ; adhesive matter is thrown out, probably at the fore part, which occasions permanent adhesions between the mid- dle and outer coat of the testicle ; should serum be secreted after this, of course it would be lodged at the sides and pos- terior part. What would the consequence be, if, in such a case as this, the trocar were to be introduced in the usual situation! Why, that it would pass into the testicle. A gen- tleman of great importance in this town consulted his regimen- tal surgeon for a swelling in the scrotum ; it was pronounced hydrocele. The operation of tapping was resolved upon ; but when the trocar was introduced, it passed only into a solid substance, and no water came away. The surgeon stared, and said, “Sir, I am a little mistaken in this case; you have a diseased testicle here, instead of hydrocele, as I at first supposed, and it is necessary that the diseased part should be removed.’’ But the gentleman, being a young man, did not think it would add much to his enjoyment to lose a testicle.—(loud laughter)— and thought that it required some hesitation before he resolved upon such a measure; consequently he did hesitate, and the re- sult was, that he consulted another surgeon. Upon examination, the testicle was found at the fore part of the swelling, and the fluid at the sides and bottom. Whilst taking off his clothes, some copper-coloured eruptions having been seen, he was asked if there was any enlargement of the bones ; when the right tibia wa? found considerably swollen. He was put under a course of mercury, for those secondary symptoms, which soon got well.