109 ON GANGRENE, gangrene. In the case of popliteal aneurism, to which I before adverted, the gangrene is produced, not by the bursting of the aneurismal bag, but by the pressure of the bag on the vessels, occasioning the destruction of life in the limb below'. I saw a gentleman a few months ago, who was upon the point of death from the pressure of an aneurism. Plis foot afterwards became gangrenous. He did not die, however; for a separation of the foot and part of the leg took place, and he ultimately recovered. So much for impeded circulation without inflammation, as a cause which sometimes produces gangrene. The division of a considerable blood-vessel will sometimes produce the same effect. I bebeve I have already mentioned in the lectures, the case of a gentleman who was stabbed in the groin by a foreigner, with a dirk or sharp knife. He was stabbed just in the femoral artery ; considerable haemorrhage took place, which was stopped by a ligature on the artery ; but the leg afterwards became gangre- nous, and it was necessary to perform the operation of amputa- tion. Since i commenced these lectures 1 have seen a most me- lancholy instance of a gentleman in the prime of life, who died from gangrene, in consequence of an injury to the femoral artery. This gentleman was thrown out of a gig as he was going down a hill, and the wheel of the carriage went over his thigh. When he was taken up, it was found that he had a simple fracture of the femur. Every thing which attention and skill could do for him was done; hut some peculiariries were immediately observed at the time of the accident. The lower part of the leg was quite insensible; it was considerably swelled and hard. After lying in bed for a week, the patient became so restless that he wished to be removed. This was done in the gentlest manner possible. He did not, however, experience the relief which he expected from a change of position, and the swelling was in some degree increased. I was then sent for; and when I saw him, I was surprised to find that gangrene had already commenced at the knee. This was hardly to be expected from a simple fracture; for it so rarely happens that the femoral artery is injured by a fracture of the thigh bone, that amongst all the cases of fractured femur which I had seen in the course of my life, I never yet met with an instance in which the artery was injured. However, from the immediate insensibility of the limb at the time of the accident, from its coldness, from the swelling which accompanied it, and also from the pulsation which existed opposite to the fracture, I