60G DISEASES OF THE HIP JOINT. joint, the foot often remains extended, and the patient is only- able to walk on his toes. Here an artificial foot would be much better than the natural one. In scrofulous diseases of the knee- joint, the tibia is often dislocated forwards. You saw a case lately over the way of this description ; the deformity will always remain, and the limb be of little use. Amputation of the fingers and wrist is occasionally performed-; that of the arm very rarely. LECTURE LXVm. I SHALL now proceed to speak of diseases of the hip-joint, psoas and lumbar abscess, and vertebral diseases. Diseases of the Hip Joint. Diseases of the hip-joint are more liable to be mistaken than scrofulous diseases of any other part of the body; much error prevails with respect to them. The first circumstance which indicates disease of the hip-joint, is some degree of lameness, and pain in the knee. The motions of the joint are impeded ; ex- tension is performed with difficulty; the child’s knee is bent, and the heel on the diseased side scarcely rests upon the ground. Besides this incapacity for extension, great difficulty is experi- enced in the flexion of the joint. Thus, if you attempt to bond the knee towards the abdomen, the child shrinks from the touch, and complains of pain. If you throw something on the floor, and desire the child to pick it up, you will observe that, in at- tempting to get possession of it, it bends only the sound knee. If you say, “ Let me see you put your foot on the chair the child does it readily enough with the sound leg, but is incapable rf doing it with the other, in consequence of the confined state of file flexion of the joint. The rotation of the joint is also impeded: more especially the rotation inwards, which cannot be attemjTcd without great pain and uneasiness. There is apparently a differ- ence in the length of the limb ; the unsound limb at first appears ■onger than the other. It is possible that an effusion into the head of the joint may push down the limb a little, but I doubt whether this has any influence in producing .an elongated appear- ance of the limb. The leugth of the limb is not really increased, but an appearance of elongation is produced by the parietes being depressed on the diseased s'-de; if you draw a line from the spinous process of the ilium from one side to the other, you will