44 ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION—APFEARANCES. to me from Exeter ’Change a kangaroo for dissection. I lis bed of straw had caught fire, but it weis very soon extinguished ; and the proprietor, knowing that he had not been severely burned, was at a loss to account for his death. Upon examination, his bladder was filled with urine, which was retained in consequence of the closure of the urethra by the adhesive inflammation ; the penis having been severely injured by the fire, the inflammation which followed was violent, and passed at once into the adhesive form. Thus you may perceive that common gonorrhoea would destroy life, if it were not so arranged by nature that mucous membranes are more readily influenced by the suppurative than by adhesive inflammation. LECTURE VII. Appearances under Adhesiv'e Inflammation. When an incision is made into a part affected with adhesive in- flammation—into the cellular membrane, for instance—a quan- tity of serum is found effused round the part, and in the part itself a yellow and semitransparent substance, having the ap- pearance of jelly, though widely different from it in composition. The best opportunity that you can have of witnessing the adhesive inflammation is on the skin under the irritation of a blister; the blister produces the same effects as those produced in the ope- ration for hydrocele. Let a blister be applied for twenty-four hours, till the cuticle is raised ; then make an incision into the vesicles, and a quantity of serum will escape. Here, perhaps, your observation may terminate; but examine the surface, and you will find on it a yellow substance, which will exist in a greater or less degree, according to the length of time the blister has been applied, on its severity, and on tlie irritability of the skin ; but, generally speeiking, under the application of a blister, adhesive matter is thrown out as under adhesive inflammation. For those who are anxious to know the time required before tlie adhesive inflammation commences, it may be proper to state, that it is different according to the structure of the part and na- ture of the constitution. In the cavity of the abdomen, the in- testines will be glued together in nineteen hours after the adhesive inflammation has begun. Now I mention nineteen hours parti- cularly, because I have seen it produced after that time in cases of gun-shot wounds. It may be in the recollection ol some of