67 ON ABSCESSES. nature performs the suppurative process ; the pustules die away, and the cuticle is separated from the surface of the body ; but nature has not the power, in many cases, of repairing the de- struction of the cutis; the exposure of the nerves of the skin oc- casions great constitutional irritation, and the patient dies as if destroyed by a burn or a scald. Abscesses are also dangerous, from their being situated in vitally important parts, such as the brain, heart, or lungs : or when they are not seated in parts of vital importance, from their pres- sure on essential organs. Cases.-^A woman was admitted into this hospital for a com- plaint in the throat, occasioned by swallowing a pointed bone. All she complained of at first, was a soreness in the throat; but she was shortly after seized with difficulty of breathing, which increased greatly, and she died. On examination after death, I found, upon making an incision into the pharynx, that between it and the fore part of the vertebrse, a large abscess had formed, which, by pressing the pharynx forward on the epiglottis and glottis, occasioned difficulty of breathing, and in the end destruc- tion of life. Shortly after this. Dr. Babington came to this hos- pital with a friend of his, who was labouring under great difficulty of breathing. Ife requested me to examine his throat; having put my finger on the back part of the pharynx, and felt fluctua- tion there, I told him that this was a case of which I had seen an instance, where the patient had died from a collection of mat- ter formed in the same situation. I immediatel)' procured aseton needle, and including it in a canula, like a trocar, I put it down into the pharynx, let out a considerable quantity of matter, and the patient was relieved. Here was a case, which, but for this operation, would probably have terminated fatally, by the pres- sure of the matter on vitally important parts. In the same man- ner, abscesses in the perineum, or between the prostate gland and the rectum, will, by their pressure on the urethra, occasion irritation of that part, and sometimes complete retention of urine. Thus, we find that abscesses, though situated in parts not of them- selves vitally important, sometimes become dangerous by their pressure on more important parts.