■154 ON THE OPERATION OF TREPHINING. suture, where the dura mater adheres with extraordinary firmness, and the longitudinal sinus might also be wounded ; and at tlie posterior part you have the superior portion of the perpendicular spine of the os occipitis ; therefore, in this line you ought not to trephine. I should mention this particularly to young persons, who very often disregard this rule, thinking they know much better than those who have preceded them; if, however, they trephine in this part, the more fools they, and I will tell you why ; they are running, in operating in this part, an unnecessary risk, by cutting on a long hole covered over by a smooth mem- brane, when the}' might do it as well on either side. It would be the folly of presumption to trephine on this line. There are two other parts in which the operation of trephining should not be performed : first, over the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, just above the zygoma ; secondly, behind the ears, on the posterior inferior angle of the same bone; and why, no doubt, most of you by this time know ; opposite to the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone is the great artery of the dura mater, and opposite to the posterior inferior angle is the great lateral sinus. Fractured portions of these bones may be raised by the elevator : and I may observe here, that this is the instrument chiefly used in cases where the fractures are running in the direction of these parts. Mr. Key’s saw is a very useful invention. It is gratifying to state that we are seldom now called on to perform this opera- tion. Suppose, however, you were called to a case requiring it, where there was a wound, together with depression of the parietal bone, you would put your finger into the wound, and if the por- tion of bone depressed were small, you would make a simple incision, and turn the integuments aside, so as to reach the bone. If by this incision you found depression with fracture, you enlarge it in the course of the fracture: if the depression were large you would make a crucial incision, and turn aside the portion of integument, so as to open a space for the application of the trephine : then, with the back edge of the knife (which should be made a little stronger than usual,) you cut tlirough the pericranium, and scrape it off. For this purpose the rougeo was formerly employed. [There was a subject on the table, on which Sir Astley performed the operation as he went on describing it.J Now I put the pin on the skull, and the crown being ad- justed, I fix it, and begin the circle. Well, gentlemen, having made a circle, I remove the pin: in young persons it will be