ON DISEASE RESESIBLING POLYPUS, IN CHILDREN. 465 for as soon as it was applied, the tumour dropped into my hand, the silk having completely cut it through. There was slight hemorrhage afterwards, which was easily subdued by plugging the nostril with lint. Shortly after the operation he left London for Portsmouth. The disease soon returned, and was again removed by Mr. Copland Hutchinson. Subsequently to this it re-appeared, and ultimately the patient was destroyed. After his death, the body was examined by Dr. Mac Arthur, and he found that the tumour had very extensive attachments; that its base was extremely broad and diffused. Now I had pre- viously thought that the disease had been conSned to a single spot, or I certainly should not have attempted its removal. I therefore recommend you not to extract these polypi by the forceps: excise them with scissors, or destroy them by ligature; their extensive adhesions will, in either case, render theoperation unavailing and ineffectual; and what is still worse, will do injury by exciting irritation, whereby the disease will become aggravated. In such cases I shall in future try what effect will ce produced by the muriate of antimony. But the disease may extend so far up the nares as to affect some other part of still greater importance than the place where it originated—thus he cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone may become destroyed, and afterwards the brain itself partake of its malignant influence. Well, though there can be no hope of the diseased person ever getting cured in such cases as these, yet it may happen that by judicious treatment, the inconvenience of the maladv, together with the deformity it occasions, may be materially diminished; but to produce a cure under such untoward circumstances, would be impossible. Os Disease resembling Polypus, in Children. Before quitting this subject, gentlemen, there is another occurrence connected with it, which I wish to mention to you, it is this—You will often have children brought to you by their parents on account of supposed polypi of the nose; when you examine the children, you will probably find in their nostrils, red projections, the appearance of which might have deceived you as well as the parents, had I not mentioned the matter to you. Be assured, when you observe these red projections in the nostrils of young children, that they are not polypi; the disease ii merely an enhsrgement or thickening of the pituitary mern- brane, and if you try to remove or draw them away by means of the forceps, you will probably tear off a portion of the tiir- 2 II