9 ON IRRITATION. But sympathetic action is also the result of injury and disease, becoming the cause of restoration on the one hand, or of de- struction on the other, and this state of the body I call irritation- irritation gentlemen, may be defined to be an altered action, ex- cited in the system by an unnatural impression. Thus sympa- thetic pain is experienced in the knee and foot from diseased hip, and at the extremity of the penis when there is stone in the bladder. The passage of an urinary calculus through the ureter occasions retraction of the testicles and pain ip the thigh ; disease of the prostate causes pain on the inside of one or both thighs. A disease of the liver occasions pain in the shoulder; a diseased testicle, pain in the loins; irritation of the intestines, an itching of the nose. These sympathetic effects, which we have just been describing, do not consist of morbid actions in the parts thus affected, but of disordered sensations. But morbid actions are also, some- times excited in parts near to, or at a distance from, those origin- ally affected. Inflammation of the testicle is frequently the consequence of irritation in the urethra; and swellings of the breast, of a morbid action of the uterus : but there is no organ so much affected by irritation, or sympathetic influence as the stomach. For instance, if a blow is received on the head, causing injury to the brain, vomiting is one of the first and most constant symptoms, being imparted to the stomach through the eighth pair of nerves, and by this we are led to detect the injury. Vomiting is produced when the testicles are injured, or intestines burst, wounded, or strangulated, and from a gall-stone passing the bil- liary duct; indeed, an obtuse pain in any part of the body will occasion sickness. The consequences of irritation are so numerous and important, gentlemen, that 1 shall relate to you the medium of its communi- cation. Irritation is generally communicated through the medium of the nerves, of which there are two grand divisions in the body. The first composed of the brain, spinal marrow and their nerves, which naturally convey sensation and volition; the second con- sisting of the grand sympathetic nerve, the centre of which is be- hind the stomach, in the semilunar ganglion and solar plexus. The modes of sympathetic communication are various. In some instances, the course of irritation is from the irritated part to the sentient extremity of the nerve, as the pain experienced in the knee and fool from a disease of the hip. In other cases the course