ON INFLAMMATION OF THE CONJUNCTIVA. 27o chronic differ from tliose of acute inflammation of the conjunc- tiva rather in degree than in kind ; so that after they have existed for some time in the acute stage, you find the disease gradually passing into the chronic stage. The redness will be less intense, the pain which accompanied it less acute, the intolerance of light will be less, the chemosis and swelling will be diminished, tha effusion of tears less considerable, the constitutional irritation will in a great degree have subsided, and in short, all the acute symp- toms will be much mitigated. There will still, however, remain a considerable degree of irritability in the eye, on exposure to light; some artificial defence to exclude the light will be neces- sary, and the person will still be incapable of applying the organ to the ordinary purposes of vision. The cause of chronic in- flammation, both exciting and predisposing, ar6 very similar to those of acute inflammation, and indeed I have already said that one fonn very commonly passes into the other ; but at the same time it is to be remembered that there are many causes which tend to produce this inflammation, accompanied with atony and debility- in the very outset, which distinguish it from acute ophthalmia. Chronic inflammation of the conjunctiva is very apt to take place, where -the patient has for a long time been labouring under disorder of the digestive organs. Patients who have this form of the inflammation often complain of dyspeptic symptoms; such as uneasiness about the scrobiculus cordis ; dis- tention of the stomach after eating ; flatulence, disagreeable tastes in the mouth, bitter, sour, or putrid ; furred tongue, and other symptoms indicating derangement of the digestive organs. Inflammation of this kind is very apt to arise from, or to be kept up by, exposure to acrid fumes or smoke in particular trades. It is not unfrequently the concomitant of dentition, the measles, or small-pox; it sometimes accompanies rheumatism and gout. Frequent intoxication and various other causes may predispose to it, which it will be necessary to investigate carefully, because the mode of treatment will materially depend upon those causes as 1 shall have occasion to show you in another part of the lecture. In general, inflammation of the conjunctiva is a very ma- nageable complaint. It passes into chronic inflammation after the acute stage has continued for a certain time, and it not unfre- quently subsides of itself. A spontaneous cure however, is by no means to be depended upon, and we ought on no account rj neglect or relax in the proper mode of treatment, from any reliance upon such a cure; because simple inflammation o' this