ON ULCERATION. 60 in which a great part of the tibia has been removed ; the ulce- ration has extended six. or seven inches, so that little more thain the fibula of the leg remains : such is the power of the absorbent vessels, of feeding, as it were, upon themselves. 'I'he ulcerative process is sometimes extremely rapid in its progress: as much will be destroyed in the course of a few hours as will require weeks and months to repair. In pro- portion to the extent of surface destroyed will be the difficulty w'ith which that suiface is closed. Something will depend, also, on the form of the ulceration, and the kind of surface ex- posed : but the general rule is, that the difficulty of the repa- rative process is proportional to the extent of surface destroyed. It is a curious law, with respect to the ulcerative proces.s, that it has a tendency to the nearest external surface of the body. This is a law which is attended with the most salutary effects; for, if it were otherwise, the body would very frequently be destroyed by the ulcerative process. In consequence of this tendency, matter formed at a depth in the body finds its way through the integuments instead of proceeding through the more important parts. Many examples may be given of this law. One of the most remarkable is this:—Matter forms not unfrequently behind the sternum close to the pleura and peri- cardium, which membranes are extremely thin—not so thick as paper. From the proximity of these membranes, it might be expected that the matter would generally open into the pleura, and, by discharging itself into the cavity of the chest, destroy life. Instead of this, however, the pleura undergoes no other alteration than that of becoming thick ; and while it is acquiring this addition of substance, the process of absorption is going on in the inner part of the sternum, an aperture is formed through it, and the matter makes its way through the bone and integuments, rather than through the pleura and pericardium. The same cir- cumstance takes place with respect to the peritoneum. If matter be formed in the abdominal muscles, the poritoneum is very rarely absorbed to admit the matter into the cavity of the ab- domen : but the matter makes its way through the integuments, and finds an outlet on the surface of the body. So in an abscess of the liver, the matter is discharged, not through the skin, which is a more remote surface, but into tlie cavity of the intestines, whence it is carried off by stool, or discharged into the stomach, from which it is thrown up by