SYPHILITIC DISEASES OF THE BONES. 575 to a case in which exfoliation of the bones of tlie skull is ac- companied with symptoms of pressure on the brain, you may in- fer that matter has formed between the dura mater and the bone, and it will be right to apply the trephine. This observation ap- plies not only to cases of syphilitic diseases, but to all cases of exfoliation of the bones of the skull, accompanied with coma. Here is a skull, (exhibiting it to the class), originally affected with syphilis:—see, gentlemen, what a lantern it became. The subject of this disease died, as 1 believe, chiefly from the in- judicious continuance of mercury. He was a man of bad con- stitution, and there was great difficulty in curing the primary symptoms of the disease. He had, subsequently, a node on the forehead, which was followed by inflammation and suppuration of other parts of the head, till the ulcerative process extended over the whole surface. He died ultimately of anasarca. It can scarcely have escaped your observation, that patients applying for admission to the hospital frequently complain of having pains all over them. They will tell you that they have pains down their arms and legs, which become worse at night when they are warm in bed, and that they have formerly had some venereal complaint, for which mercury has been given till tlie mouth has been rendered severely sore. If you ask them whetlier they were exposed to cold during the time they took the mercury, they will answer in the affirmative. Such persons, gentlemen, we do not admit into the hospitals ; we only tell them to take care of them- selves, and to keep themselves as warm as po.=sible, and that, afur a time, the disease will disappear. These pains are readily distinguishable from those which proceed from the syphilitic poison. .Syphilitic pains commonly attack the shins, but they also appear in other parts of the body. Patients complain of pains from the upper to the lower part of tiie arm ; pains about the chest and about the hips. These are mercurial, not venereal, pains. You have an opportunity of seeing an example of this disease in the skeleton on the table, in w hich the mercury has affected the ribs, the sternum, the tibia, and, in short, almost every hone in the body. A deposit of earthy matter is formed between the jieriosteurn and the bone, so as to case the surface of the bone, i'atients suffer exceedingly from mercurial diseases ot the bones, much more indeed than iTorn syphilitic. You should direct them to pay strict attention to temperature, and give them the compound de'.o.tion of sarsaparilla. This plan of treatment