386 ON DISEASES OE THE BREAST. had submitted to an operation; she went to a warm climate soon after; tlie disease then made its appearance again, and she returned to this country in a cold sea'On, which had no eft’ect in retarding the progress of the complaint; in the warm country the disease was not prevented from returning ; in this, its pro- gress was not arrested by the cold. Ol'EHATIO.V FOR THE III SIOVAL OP A ScinRIIOUS BrEAST. This operation is nothing more than a simple piece of dissec- tion ; it consists in making a semicircular incision at the upper part of the breast, and over the tumour; in this step you cut through the vessels which supply the scirrhus. When the mam- mary artery and its branches have been divided, you desire an assistant to compress the vessels by pressure, just above the inci- sion, and you then go on excavating the parts and cellular tissue ; the pectoral muscle is laid bare (and it is a good plan always to do this) ; lastly, it is right to divide the integuments below the tumour, lest, as it sometimes happens, a gland is enlarged in the axilla ; then it will be best to remove it, and the intervening part between it and the breast; for if you cut out the gland only, the disease returns, and it is always attended with unfavourable results. 'I'he absorbent vessels are the means by which the disease is communicated to the other parts. If the glands in the axilla generally are enlarged, do not operate, for the disease will be sure to return. I never saw an operation performed under such circumstances successful. After the breast is removed, bring the edges together by suture; in the earlier period of my life I did not adopt this practice ; I have since found that the wound heals bettei if sutures are employed than adhesive plaister only. You put one or two sutures, which keep the edges lo- gelher ; when you observe a drawing in the nipple, always secure that part. This very day 1 removed a breast with a nipple in this slate, in company with a respectable medical practitioner, and 1 cut through the centre of the nipple, to see whether it had any connexion with the tumour. I saw a scirrhous band going across it to the tumour. I would observe, that the scirrhous tu- mour is not at all the disease ;■ there are roots which extend to a considerable distance ; and those who gave this disease the name of cancer probably knew more of its nature than we are disposed lo give them credit for. It is supposed by some that this name was given on account of the appearance ol the surrounding veins. 1 shonld rather say that it was from the appearances on