ON IIA RE-LIP. 46»I being put on in (he way mentioned, you must then pass the liga- ture through the cenire of the swelling, by means of a needle, and tie it above and below ; in this case your ligature must, of neces- sity, be double : in this way you will succeed, as effectually as with the other mode, in producing a separation of the enlarged part. I shall now, gentlemen, describe to you the Operation for flaRE-LiP. The name of this disease originated from a supposition that it gives to the lip the same appearance as the lip of the animal bear- ing that name. Hare-lip is sometimes single, that is, the fissure being only on one side ; sometimes double, a fissure being then on each side, and occasionally attended with a want of teeth in the upper jaw ; also a loss of the velum pendulum palati and uvula. Sometimes in the double hare-lip the only thing between the fissures is a small projection of cartilaginous substance attached to the tip of the nose; the soft palate, in these cases, is generally wanting, and the turbinated bone exposed. The deformity in these in- stances is most unsightly. In the operation for the removal of hare-lip, the simple princi- ple is union by adhesion or first intention. In single hare-lip you must perform the operation thus. [Here the learned lecturer shewed the operation on the dead subject, according to the de- scription given.] Pare off the edge of the divided lip on each side by means of a small bistoury : in executing this step of the operation, take care that you cut oft'enough, for tramedialely at the margin the parts are hard and callous, and will not readily unite. Well, having pared off a sufficient quantity of both edges, all that remains to be done is to apply the ligatures of which there are to be but two; this number will be found quite adequate. Now it is of great importance that you should be careful where the ligatures are applied, and I also advise you to be particular in your adoption of the rules which I give on this point. Well, then, introduce one ligature immediately at the edge of the lip, that is, at the lowest part of the divided portions where the red part or line of the lip begins, and the other ligature is to be in- troduced exactly midway between the first and the extent of the wound towards the nose ; thus the last ligature will be situated half way between the angles of the wound, at the lower part, and the fissure at the upper. As your object should be to cause the