236 ON HERNIA. Tlie next mode of treatment pursued in the hospitals, where it can be most conveniently employed, is to put the patient into a warm bath. The usual course is to put him into a bath heated to from 90 to 100 deg., for a quarter of an hour, and after his body has been well washed and cleansed, it is supposed that his hernia will be more easily returned. But what is the use of such a plan of treatment ? by what principle are they who recommend it guided 1 It may soothe and tranquillize the patient for the mo- ment, but no effectual benefit can result from putting the patient into a warm bath, unless you keep him in it until fainting is pio- duced. In this state you will support the patient by putting your hand behind his head ; and while the abdominal muscles are relaxed, you may employ the taxis with success. It will be bet- ter to do this while the patient is in the bath, or at all events, if he is taken out of the bath, you should take care to cover him with blankets, so that the faintness may not be removed ; you will hear persons say that this remedy is of no use ; it is of no use unless fainting be produced, for without this effect it ought not to be employed. But surgeons make use of opposite plans of treatment: raid, for instance, and with considerable success and advantage, not by reducing the volume of air, as has been absurdly stated ; for first, it has not the effect of doing this ; and secondly, if it had, it would be of no service. The diminution of the volume of air will do no good whilst the pressure remains the same; cold operates beneficially in two ways ; 1st, By astringing the scrotum, and diminishing its bulk, by which means it presses against the hernia, and facilitates the return. 2dly. It appears to have a sympathetic effect in lessen- ing and retarding the inflammation of the intestines: soon after the cold is applied, there is a diminution of pain, and it saves the patient from the danger of active inflammation ; cold then is of considerable use when delay is wanted ; it now and then happens that you would like to have a surgeon at your elbow in operating for hernia, though you might be quite equal to the task, to sanction your proceedings ; as for the fate. Heaven alone knows, for it is extremely uncertain. Apply cold then in cases where, during the interim, you wish to have time to consult: as it delays, at least, the power of in- flammation. I have seen persons brought into the surgery of this hospital when the snow has been on the ground, and they have