I 0» ENCANTHIS. 293 texture, and its surface is covered with a fleshy elevation, having’ he exact appearance of granulations. These granulations cover- ing the surface of the conjunctiva lining the lids are constantly- rubbed over the globe of the eye whenever it moves, producing pain and irritation, and keeping up morbid secretion, and, in fact, giving rise to chronic ophthalmia. Thus easy access is afforded to extraneous bodies, nebulous opacities form on the cornea, ves- sels tvill be seen shooting over it, and these will be quite in a varicose state, enlarged, and having a knotty appearance. The granulations, if not removed or remedied, produce ultiniate blindness. Considerable advantage is said to be derived from the following plan of treatment:—Remove the granulating sur- face of the conjunctiva by the lancet, or by a pair of curvetl scissors. I am not able myself to say that I have'seen any great good result from this mode of treatment. Touching the granu- lations with nitrate of silver or sulphate of copper will tend ma- terially to keep them down. One remedy in this complaint was first mentioned to me by my friend, Mr. Tyrrell, who stated that he had tried it with advantage : the liquor plumbi subacetatis applied to the surface of the granulations. The result of my Experience has been to confirm this statement. If the vessels on the cornea be numerous, it will be proper to divide the trunks ivhich supply them. This is a very simple operation. You must raise the lid and press on the globe, by which means you distend it and project it forwards ; you then carry a sharp curved instrument round the outsirle of the cornea, and divide the ves- sels, so that they shall not reunite. A bar of lymph is thrown out, which turns the vessels from off their course, excepting, perhaps, the small ones, which often reunite. It will be neces- 6^ty, perhaps, to repeat it. Cases of this complaint are difficult to cure. These are remedies then to be used : removing the granulations, applying caustic applications, and the division of the varicose and enlarged vessels. These may be aided by setons, issues, and blisters, and attention to the general lealth. Encantiiis. This consists in an alteration of the structure of the caruncula Achryxoalis. and neighbouring semilunar fold of the conjunctiva. The caruncula is enlarged ; at the commencement it has a gra- nulated appearance, which it loses as it intrenses, and then be-