678 ON SUPPURATION IN BONE, It is right, if we wish to diminish the size of the exfoliation, to bind it upon the granulations, which will absorb a part of it; ac- cording to experiments made by Sir Wm. Blizard on this subject. Internal exfoliation is also a very singular process. A man who is losing two-thirds of his tibia is walking about during the period in which it is separating. This process 1 have already described to you when speaking of medullary abscess. In the treatment of this disease, I should say much might be done to assist the efforts of nature. As soon as the bones become loosened, which you may easily know by passing a probe into the wound, what I should advise you to do is this ; take away a portion of the new bone, so as to admit of your sawing the old bone into two portions, and then draw them out. After amputation in full health there is often necrosis taking place on the end of the bone forming the stump. It happens because the bone is exceedingly loaded with phosphate of lime at the time of the operation ; but if a man be previously reduced by disease, a thin shell of bone only remains, and the blood-vessels have a much more free action on the bone. Exostosis is of two kinds, cartilaginous and fungous. The car- tilaginotis contains only a very small quantity of the phosphate of lime, and grows originally from the inner surface of the perios- teum, and spiculae of bone afterwards shoot into it. The/ungour exostosis is rather a nest of bone enveloping the fungus than constituting the fungus itself. It grows from the medullary membrane. In the treatment of the fungous exostosis nothing can be done but to palliate; the growth will proceed in spite of local and constitutional remedies. Where the exostoses ore cartilaginous, growing from the periosteum, they cease to increase beyond a certain extent, and usually form at the insertion of tendons into bone, as at the insertion of the triceps abductor magnus. You should make an incision through the integuments, cut through the muscle in the direction of its fibres, and having reached the top of the exostosis, you find the knife easily sinks into it, from it being still partly cartilaginous. Then slit down the muscle on each side, and apply the circular saw, invented by Mr. Machim, which is worked by a winch in the handle. When -the exostosis arises from the cancellated structure of the flat bones, an idea suggested itself to me that it might be removed in the following way ; by making an incision through the perios- teum covering the tumour, and then separate it further with the handle of the knife on each side, the exostosis is gradually dis-