318 ON SOLUTION OK THE CATARACT sary to consider which of them it may be most expedient to adopt. It seems to me that in those cases which admit of the operation for .-.olution, namely, fluid, soft, and most cases of membranous cataract, that operation is greatly preferable to any other. Soft, fluid, and membranous cataract cannot be depressed. It is true that the operation for extraction might be performed, but it is to be considered that the operation for solution is much more easy, and that it does very little injury to the eye. In firm cataracts, where it is a matter of indifference whether the operation for de- pression or extraction should be performed, that for extraction, supposing it to be equally well performed, is undoubtedly pre- ferable because the diseaise is entirely removed by it. It is not always, however, a matter of indifference, for there are many cases in which it would be extremely imprudent to attempt the operation for extraction ; as, for instance, in cases of adhesion of the iris to the cornea, or where the cornea is very flat, and the anterior chamber necessarily small, or in cases of contraction of the pupil, myosis or arcus senilis. There are some cases in which the unsteadiness of the eye is so great, either from spas- modic motions to which the patient is subject, or, lastly, where there is such indocility in the patient, either from invincible fear or stupidity, that it will not be advisable to attempt the opera- tion. I am led to these remarks, in consequence of my having operated in this hospital on a woman who had cataract in both eyes. When the operation was proposed to her she immedi- ately consented, and supposing that she would have sufiieicnt resolution to go through it, I sat down with perfect confidence to perform the operation for extraction. She no sooner, however, felt the pain—pain it can scarcely be called—the uneasiness, rather, arising from the application of the instrument—than she could not keep her head at all steady, but threw herself into all sorts of postures. I succeeded, with great difficulty in mak- ing a very indifferent section of the cornea, and in extracting the cataract from the eye- I know not what induced me to be so indiscreet, after the specimen I had had of this patient’s firm- ness, to attempt the operation on the other eye. I did so, how- ever, and if the patient was unsteady during the first operation, she was ten times more so during the second. The consequence wa-s, that though 1 completed the section of the cornea in the second, 1 found 1 could not proceed without the risk of doing considerable injury to the part; aud 1 thought it best to leave