OPERA'IION OF LITHOTOMY. 358 the knife : the staff being introduced, and the opening into the groove through the membranous part of the urethra having been completed, as you see it, I fix the beak of the gorget in the groove, and bringing the handle of the staff towards me I at the same moment push the gorget into the bladder with its point directed with a considerable inclination upwards ; the staff is tlien withdrawn, and the forceps being passed into the bladder, along the hollow of the gorget, you remove the latter instrument, and extract the stone as before. The High Operation as used in France, and now occa- sionally ADOPTED IN St. George’s Hospital. The instruments employed in this operation are a probe- pointed bistoury, the sonde-a-dard, (a sound containing within it a dart or stilet,) and a pair of forceps similar to those I have 3'ust been using. Sir Everard Home has attached a net to one side of the forceps, as you see it, so that when they are intro- duced into the bladder, you are to Jish for the stone. Well, I now pass into the bladder this sonde-d-dard, and by de- pressing the handle, endeavour to make its point project, just \ above the symphysis pubis, in a line with it and the linea alba— I now force on the stilet, and in this situation it makes its appear- ance. An incision must now be made about two inches in length in the direction of the linea alba, through the integuments doA-n to the bladder, which is supported against the part by the point of the sound ; and then with the probe-pointed bistoury, make an opening in the bladder of the same size as the external wound. I now with the point of my finger hold the bladder against the edge of the wound, withdraw the sonde, pass down the forceps, and thus remove the stone. It is very easy, gentlemen; but I have seen quite enough of this operation. A French surgeon, some time since, finding that a calculus was too large to be extracted by the lateral operation, immedi- ately performed the high operation; he made a tolerably free incision, and upon seeing something he did not expect, exclaimed, “ Mon Dieu ! voild I’inteslin!” After some difficulty, the intes- tines were returned, and the Frenchman very coolly asked an English surgeon, who was standing by him, how long bethought the patient would survive ? He received for answer, “ Probably forty-eight hours.” Oh, non !” said the operator, “ ring! ^uatrf an pins,” and truly the Frenchman was right, for at the end of twenty-four hours the patient was dead.