TREATMENT OF GANGRENE. 116 makes liim costive, and then purges; and after a little time we are obliged to suspend its use. I am much disposed to try in these cases the new form of this medicine, which agrees 60 well with the stomach ; I allude to the sulphate of qui- nine. It is my intention to give it a full trial in the first case of gangrene which I meet with ; and I recommend you to try it yourselves in the cases of gangrene which may come under your observation. An excellent medicine used in the other hospital is a bolus of five grains of the carbonate of am- monia, with ten grains of musk, given every four hours. I have seen this medicine produce the best effects in sloughing sores in the foul wards, and in gangrenous sores, where the gangrene was much disposed to spread. The musk has the effect of keeping up the stimulus of the ammonia, which is apt to subside after a few hours, when the ammonia is exhibited alone. A port wine poultice is an admirable application in these cases. I mentioned to you, a few days ago, the case of a girl in the other hospital, w ho had a gangrenous sore in the pudendum, where a great va- riety of applications had been tried without any beneficial result. At last a port wine poultice was applied, and with such imme- diate good effects, that, though I had before despaired of her life, the last time I saw her the sore was brought into such a healthy state, that there are great hopes of her recovery. Applications of turpentine are often of use in these cases, for the purpose of stimulating the parts. After great want of circulation in any part, from the course of the blood having been arrested, slough- ing sores are very apt to occur. Thus, after the operation of tying the femoral artery, if the limb be suffered to rest in the same position for a considerable time, a small gangrenous spot frequently appears. In such cases the spirit of turpentine is the best application. Yeast is often applied with the same view. A lotion much used in the other hospital, for this purpose, is the formula which used to be called the epitbema lythargyri acetatis, but now called the epithema plumbi subacetatis. The following is the mode of preparing it:— R. Confect. Ros. Med. Rosae. "i Tinct. Opii. > aa Liq. Plumbi Subacet. ) 5jj. This is an application which accords extremely well with limbs in a state of gangrene, when the dead are separating from the