172 ON THE FORMATION OF ANEURISM, which becomes absorbed, if it be an aneurism of the ascending aorta, is the pleura, which forms a portion of the aneurismnl bag. Then the lungs become absorbed, and form a portion of the bag; next the incercostal muscles, with the cartilages of the ribsj then the pectoral muscle ; and at last the skin itself, forming the parietes of the aneurism, give way, and there is no longer any thing to prevent the escape of the blood. Every aneurism was formerly supposed to be produced by the dilatation of the coats of the artery ; but it has been found that this is not the case. It is generally produced, not by the dila- tation, but by the absorption of the coats of the artery. For this knowledge we are indebted to Scarpa, who first accurately explained the mode in which aneurisms are produced. He thought they were always produced in this way; but they are sometimes, though rarely, formed in the way in which they were formerly supposed to be uniformly produced ; namely by dilatation. Here is a specimen of an aneurism of the aorta, in which the pouch is formed by dilatation, the coats of the artery still remaining. Aneurisms are now and then the effect of the bursting of an artery under some considerable exertion. I have known two instances of this kind. A gentleman who was out shooting jumped over a ditch, when on reaching the other side his foot slipped, and he fell back into the ditch. At this moment he felt something snap in his ham, and when he attempted to walk he found himself lame from the accident. He was attended by Mr. Holt, a surgeon at Tottenham, and was afterwards brought to town, where he underwent an operation for popliteal aneu- rism. In this case the aneurism began to form within a very short time after the accident, and it was not more than from three to five weeks afterwards that the operation was performed. The other case in which I have known an aneurism produced by the bursting of an artery occurred as follows ;—A gentleman whom I was attending for another complaint, in attempting to raise himself in bed upon his hands, felt something snap in his right hand. WlienJ next visited him, he told me the circumstance, and requested me to look at his hand. Upon putting my finger upon it, I felt a pulsating aneurismal swelling. I tried what could be done by pressure ; but as this did not succeed, I found it necessaiy to tie the radial artery at the part where we usually feel the pulse. In this case a bag of considerable size was