584 ON SYPHILIS AND THE .USE OF MERCURY. such treatment as this ; it is often calculated to throw him off his guard, may lead him to suppose he is cured, when in reality he is not so, and may ultimately terminate in the complete destruc- tion of his constitution. Sometimes mercury disagrees with the patient; then, of course you must either discontinue it, or temper it by combin- ing it With some other medicine calculated to prevent its dis- turbing the constitution, if the patient be too irritable to take mercury ; and, should you find this to be the case, cease for a while to administer it, improve the general health, and its em- ployment may be again resumed. I may here observe to you, that, when a man is in health, mercury will generally agree with him very well ; but’if feeble or irritable, it then often induces sloughing, and severe constitutional irritation. The best form in which mercury can be given is that of the blue pill, ten grains at night and ten in the morning ; ten at night and ten in the morning is the utmost extent to which the dose should be earned ; in ordinary cases ten grains at night and five in the morning will be found quite suflicient : should the mercury produce diarrhoea, a quarter of a grain of opium should be added to every five grotins of the blue pill. As the compound decoction of sarsaparilla assists the action of the mer- cury, half a pint of it may be taken two or three times in the course of every day, while under the mercurial influence. As to rubbing in the mercurial ointment, it is seldom done perfectly, and is not often adopted, except where the internal e»’hibition of the medicine occasions so much disorder of the stomach and bowels, that it cannot be introduced into the system any other way. About the time that I commenced practice (not hospital practice), a woman mentioned a curious circumstance to me, which was, that she had been taking mercury, and that it had occasioned the salivation of her child, without having produced any obvious effect upon herself. Another curious circumstance is, that no mercury can be found in the blood or secretions of those who are in a state of salivation. I sent to Mr. Allen a pint of blood taken from a salivated person, I also sent him a quart of saliva ejected by a person in a similar slate, and also a quart of urine, with a request that he would subject them to the most minute chemical analysis, for the purpose of discovering whether any mercury could be detected in either, yet not an atom could be discovered ; now you all know that the thousandth part of n