ClIOUDLE. 530 mucus as this. Eight or ten drops three times a day will usually be found quite sufficient: it may be given in conjunction wiih the medicines before-mentioned, or in 3ij raucilag. gumi acac. et 3x aq. fout. Paralysis of the Bladder. Now and then a paralytic state of the bladder occurs. In early life, a case of this kind for the moment very much sur- prised me: a man came to my house, stating, that he could not make water. I made him lie down on three chairs, and then, without the least difficulty, introduced a catheter; but, to my astonishment, not a drop of urine came away: and 1 was the more astonished, as I could distinctly feel the instrument above the pubes. I desired him to rise from the chairs and stand up: well, the moment he did so, the urine directly began to flow in a full stream; this arose from the weight of the super-incumbent viscera pressing on the bladder; and, although the urine flowed freely while in the erect posture ; yet, when the body was hori- zontal. not a drop would escape. He was cured by blistering the loins, and by giving him a pill twice a day, composed of five grains of the Chio turpentine, and a quarter of a grain of pow- dered canlharides; by these means, the voluntary power of the bladder became restored. it occasionally happens that persons will be troubled by fre- quent bleedings from the kidneys. I knew a female who was annoyed in this way for more than three months. Trealment.—In these cases you must order the recumbent pos- ture to be rigidly adhered to, in order to give the vessels an op- portunity of closing. The bals copaib. should also be prescribed in small doses. The diet should be low : recollect there must be no change from the recumbent postui^ until some time ’after the bleedings have ceased; and deviations from this rule will frus- trate your curative intentions. The next disease to which 1 shall direct your attention is Chordel. The name may make some of you smile, at least those of you who have not felt it. A chordee is a painful erection of the penis ; and, during the erection, the penis is drawn either vio- lently back, or to one side. The cause of the complaint is an inflammatory condition of tlie corpus spongiosum, and the pain is produced by the dilatation of the vessels, from the influx of blood, to cause an erection. The disease is most troublesome at