ON CHANCRE. 548 me while I underwent a course of mercurial treatment (she being perfectly unconscious of the cause of my complaint), by which means I was quite restored, when the marriage ceremony was co lebrated.” It was just a proper punishment for his folly. The application of caustic to a chancre does not render a person safe from its effects, for, if the sore be a chancre, the syphilitic virus must have been admitted into the constitution. I will tell you what treatment you should pursue; as soon as a patient applies to you for this complaint, you should ask him if he wishes to be properly cured at once, by a simple mercurial treatment, or have the chancre cured without it, and run the risk of having secondary symptoms occurring at a future period. His answer will be, “ for God’s sake, give me what is proper now for my cure, without submitting me to the chance of being laid up a second time with this complaintand you then order him to take five grains of blue pill, and a quarter of a grain of opium, night and morning ; if you exceed this quantity, let him take an additional pill at b^- time. Now, gentlemen, this medicine, continued for three weeks, will be quite sufficient for the cure of the disease. It may be asked, why do you combine opium with the mercury ? If you were not to do it, the result would be, that the mercury by itself would irritate the chancre, but, if the mercury be combined with opium, it rarely produces this effect; the way, therefore, to pre- vent irritation and a sloughing state of the chancre, is to give the mercury in conjunction with opium. The patient will ask you how he should live whilst he is undergoing this treatment ? You may tell him that he may follow his business or occupation just the same as before, that he should not take any species of food which is likely to disorder his bowels, as it is desirable to prevent the mercury acting on the intestinal canal; but his mode of living should be as usual—he should avoid acids, because they would purge him, and for this reason he should not take vege- tables, which contain acescent matter; there is no necessity for him to change his food. Two or three glasses of wine a-day would not prevent the action of the mercury—taken so as to hurry the circulation, will oppose it; but, if taken moderately, it will do no harm. With respect to the quantity of mercury given, the treatment of the syphilitic disease is greatly improved, for all that you want is jusl to keep up the mercurial action on the con- stitution for a short time, instead of making the patient spit at he mouth, for weeks and months, as used to be done. One point