12 ON IRRITATION. ping all the customary secretions; the various outlets being thus closed, the blood collects in large quantities in the heart and great blood vessels, which propel the blood with increased force to the wounded part; this gives rise to some form of inflammation, the one best suited to accomplish the desired effect. Here is an illus- tration of the manner in which nature contends for cure; during the battle, she occasionally requires to have her ardour checked, or calls for support in proportion to her want of power; we must watch her proceedings with an eagle eye, and be exceedingly cau- tious in all our proceedings: for if we should open the various sluices of the body, and restore the secretions too soon, we may, by ab- stracting blood from the injured part, prevent the restorative pro- cess ; or by increasing the excitement, disturb nature’s operations. The degree of constitutional irritation, resulting from injury, depends on several causes; these are the importance of the part in- jured the extent and nature of the injury, state of the constitu- tion, age, and previous habits of the patient. Thus we see, that constitutional irritation is very different in some persons to what it is in others; so that a wound, which in one man would be attended by the most dangerous consequences, might not, in another, dis- turb the functions of any important organ; this greatly depends on the state of the system at the time of the injury; thus, many gentle- men present would probably in autumn overcome a disease, that in the spring would overcome them; that is, if they have been paying proper attention to their professional studies, by devoting their time to anatomical pursuits. The following cases' are important, and place in a strong light the dreadful constitutional effects which occasionally result from very slight local causes. A man, who had lived intemperately, was bled by the late Mr. Saunders on a Tuesday ; on Thursday (having indulged in the in- terim in the pleasures of the table) the wound In the arm was in- flamed ; on the Saturday the inflammation had considerably in- creased ; on the Sunday gangrene commenced; and on the Monday I was asked to see him. I found him with delirium, hiccough, and subsultus tendinum; and on the following day he died. O n dissection, the skin, to a great extent round the wound was found mortified ; the cellular membrane had inflamed and suppurated, but the vein which had been opened was not inflamed. Dr. Ludlow, of Caine, whilst shooting, pricked his hand with a thorn in getting over a hedge; the part soon became inflamed and