ON THE DIFFERENT AMFUTATIONS. 449 cover the stump ; in the upper extremity the muscles are more bound down to the bone. In amputating above the elbow, the principal artery which requires to be secured, is the brachial; in securing" It take care not to include the brachial nerve. Amputation at tub Shoulder Joint. The amputation at the axilla is a very simple operation : I may add too that it is safe, for I do not think that this operation adds at all to the danger of the patient, when compared with the amputation of the upper extremity a little above the elbow. Af- ter amputation at the axilla, the joint heals as well and as quickly as after amputation at the middle of the arm. The readines* with which it heals will depend upon the integuments being suffi- cient to cover the whole of the cartilaginous surface, and upon the constitution of the patient. If the constitution of the patient be not good, there will be danger of suppurative inflammation. The flrst case in which I performed amputation of the shoulder joint was that of a woman in the other hospital, for exostosis of the os humeri. To ascertain whether the swelling was of an ossiflc character, I made a small incision through the integu- ments, put down a probe, and felt the spicul® of the bone giving way. It was of great importance to ascertain that the disease was not of a scirrhous or fungoid kind, for in that case it would have been useless to amputate. It was necessary in this case to make a double flap, by taking out a portion of integument from the arm, as it was impossible to provide a sufficient covering for the glenoid cavity from the deltoid muscle. The second case in which I operated at the shoulder joint was a curious and a novel one. It was that of a boy residing at Worthing, who fell from a horse, and received a compound fracture at the elbow joint, which rendered amputation necessary. It was an admirable (tump, and the wound healed quickly. In a short time, however, the boy began to complain of a great deal of pain at the extre- mity of the stump ; a gradual alteration in its form took place, till it became conical, and at length the bone projected through it. The boy was brought to Guy’s Hospital, and, on examina- tion, there was found, at the extremity of the slump, a swelling on the inner side, which was so excessively tender that he could not bear the slightest pressure. The least pressure produced the most violent spasmodic a/Feptions of the muscles ; thesa gympturas increased, the boy’s general health gave way, and it became necessary to amputate the limb at the shoulder joint, 2u