ON UYDROCUl-E. 198 The hydrocele still remained, and as the surgeon who first saw this case was right in his first opinion as to its nature, he was sent for to repeat the operation of tapping. lie now introduced the trocar at the side of the swelling, instead of the fore part; the water was withdrawn, and the patient perfectly recovered! This case shows the necessity of extreme caution in de- termining the situation of the testiele before the introduction ot the trocar. The testicle is sometimes found at the bottom of the swelling. N ow (holding up a preparation), here is a curious thing. This hydrocele, you observe, was situated between the testicle and abdominal ring, the testicle being quite at the inferior extremity of the tumour. Adhesive inflammation in this instance, had completely united the middle to the outer coat; consequently, the descent of the water had been prevented. Here is another preparation, in which the water had col- lected at the sides, adhesion having taken place both before and behind. Here is another preparation, in which it appears as though the hydrocelic sac had arisen from the tunica vaginalis, in the same manner as an aneurismal sac is occasionally formed from the coats of an artery. In hydrocele, it sometimes happens that the fluid is formed in a distinct bag of cyst, between the tunica vaginalis and tunica albuginea; this complaint is usually combined with common hydrocele. There are great varieties with regard to the state of the tunica vaginalis ; and it is found much thicker in those per- sons who have for a long time resided in hot climates, such as the coast of Africa, or West Indies, than in such a climate as our own. When, therefore, you find a; tumour about the tes- ticle, apparently solid, but of little weight, you are to be very cautious in your diagnosis ; you are somewhat called upon to explore the swelling with a lancet; that is, puncture it lightly where there is the most appearance of fluctuation ; and often, when least expected, the testicle will be found in a healthy state. After the water has been discharged, it frequently happens that the tunica vaginalis, in consequence of its extreme thickness, will remain in large folds. The tunica vaginalis has, in a few instances, been found ossi-