200 ON HYDROCELE, ration unnecessary. The result of that case gratified me ex- ceedingly. Diagnosis.—Now then, as to t'ne best mode of distinguishing hy- drocele : When a patient comes to you with a fluctuating swell- ing in the scrotum, in which the testicle is enclosed, you order a candle to be brought; then squeezing the tumour at the pos- terior part, you distend the front so as to make it tense ; ap- ply the skin of the little finger, and that covering its metacarpal bone at the outer side, to the surface of the tumour, and then cause the candle to be held as close as possible opposite to where the two skins meet. In this way you will never fail to discover the transparency of hydroceles whichi are formed in this climate ; and it is only the clumsy, awkward mode in which the experi- ment is made, that occasions any person to be unsuccesful in it, which, if conducted differently, would lead to a satisfactory re- sult. I have seen individuals, however, from Sierra Leone and the West Indies, in whom the tunica vaginalis had become so much thickened as to render the hydrocele per- fectly opaque. Diseased testicle may be easily distinguished from hydrocele by its weight and flatness, and the pain and sickness which it occasions ; and often by the discoloration of the skin covering it and by the semi-transparency and lightness of one tumour and the heaviness of the other. There is one disease somewhat difficult to distinguish from hy- drocele, viz., hsematocele : this is a collection of blood in the tu- nica vaginalis testis, and produces in form an exactly similar tu- mour to hydrocele ; but the history of the case is quite different, and your best guide. If you ask how it happened 1 the answer is—“ Why I was riding, when the horse became restive, began ■ to plunge, and threw me forward on the pommel of the saddle ; I soon afterwards discovered this sw'elling.” Then, if you in- quire whether there were any marks or bruises in the skin of the the scrotum, the answer will be, “ Oh, yes ; it was black and blue.” Whenever you find a swelling thus suddenly formed after a blow, having the figure of hydrocele, you may be certain of its being blood. But, gentlemen, guard against mistaking this complaint for diseased testicle. I was once present in the othe hospital when a healthy testicle was removed, owing to this error^ and some years since, one of the first surgeons in this town, afte having removed a tumour from the scrotum ; and when the geo