ON INFI.AMMATION. 21 solutions of alum, sulphate of zinc, nitrate of silver ; and as the system of depletion required during the acute stage may have produced debility, the use of tonics must not Ire forgotten. An instance of chronic inflammation succeeding the acute may be seen in gonorrhoea. During the first stages of this complaint we are obbged to check the action of the vessels of the urethra, but afterwards to excite it by the balsam of copaiba, and slightly stimulating injections. Common or Specific iNFLAMM.iriON. Inflammation is of two kinds, either common or specific. The first, with its terminations, has been already described, and is called healthy inflammation. But the second, or specific, is of a peculiar kind, and is called unhealthy. In this inflammation, the vessels have an entirely different action to what happens in the healthy state, and thus the fluids and solids they secrete have a decidedly opposite character. There are two descriptions of specific inflammation: the first is produced by a peculiar condition of the constitution ; and tiie second, by the application of a poison. Gout is an example of the first kind. If a man for a length of time yield to every injurious excess, loading his stomach witli food and wine, so as to weaken the digestive powers, he probably ex- cites in his system what is called the gouty disposition ; he expe- riences dreadful pain in one or more of his toes, 5cc., and severe inflammation ensues, which frequently terminates in tire secretion of a matter that speedily becomes solid, usually called chalk- stone ; tills name, however, is incorrect, as it has been proved by the analysis of Dr. Wollaston to consist of uric acid and soda, consequently is now very properly named urate or hthate of soda. The formation of scirrhus or cancer is another example of specific inflammation, arising from a peculiar state of constitu- tion. I.et us suppose that two women receive each a blow on the breast; one woman with a constitution in a healthy, vigorous state, and the other witli a system predisposed to the forma- tion of cancer; in the first individual the inflammation will be strictly healthy, going through its different stages until a cure is accomplished ; in the other person, owing to a constitutional peculiarity, the same extent of injury will produce cancerous disease, a malady over which medicine has no influence, and ex- tirpation is only an uncertain remedy. I’ersons afflicted with cancerous or fungous complaints are of exceedingly anxious