ON HERNIA. 249 raciice is one tliat cannot be thought of without our being shocked that it was ever adopted. Trcutinent after the Operation.—You must bring tire integu- ments together and keep them in apposition by means of sutures ■ do not include any parts in the sutures but the skin, and bring the edges so in contact as to produce adhesion ; if you can effect this a great advantage will be gained. After the operation foi strangulated hernia there are two things from which danger is to be apprehended ; first, that the intestines may not perform their office, and the faeces not pass in their natural course ; secondly and principally, that peritoneal inflammation may come on, and produce the same effect as if gangrene were present. The ob- ject then should be to close the wound as completely as possible, and for this purpose slight pressure will be of' service. If the hernial sac remains open, the process of adhesion will be diffi- cult : but if adhesion of the sac takes place, peritoneal inflamma- tion will probably be prevented. After the integuments have been brought together by means of sutures, slight pressure should be made by dossils of lint, and the parts should be sup- ported in a suspensory bandage. The suspensory bandage will be of use in preventing the formation of matter in the scrotum. There are three things, then, that you are to attend to in the after treatment: first, keeping the parts together by sutures; secondly, applying pressure by dossils of lint; thirdly, the use of the suspensory,bandage. You order the patient to keep the horizontal posture, but above all, direct that he have his evacua- tions on foul linen, and not be allowed to get up. If strict orders be not given to this effect, the patient will get up to g.) stool, and great mischief will most probably be done by the exer- tion. Mr. Cline operated on a patient in this hospital for strangulated hernia, and the parts were returned to the abdomen; but the patient got out of bed a short time after the operation, and when on the close-stool the intestine descended into the sac and displaced the dressings. Mr. Cline was sent for, who found the hernia as large as before the operation ; he reduced it, and ordered that the patient should not quit his bed. 1 men- tion this case to point out to you the necessity of enjoining the horizontal posture. You will be gratified on the following day if the patient have a motion. In five or six hours after tlj^ operation give a little sulphate of magnesia or castor oil. The more motions a patient has after the opeiation for hernia the