555 ON CHANCRES IN WOMEN. clastic catheter kept in the urethra. This case completely suc- ceeded. Mr. Earle has since performed an operation on a similar principle, and with perfect success. I think it an operation which you ought to perform ; it may be done in any part of the urethra. These are the modes of treatment in the sloughing urethra. If there is at the mouth of the urethra a cicatrix at all, or the orifice is small, you cannot cure such a stricture in the usual mode. You must cut oflF a piece of bougie, and regularly wear it in the urethra, withdrawing it twice or three times in thecourse of the day, to allow the urine to pass off. The object is to excite a sup- purative inflammation, and thus remove the stricture'; for when the suppurative inflammation has been excited, the urethra has not the same disposition to contract as before. Sometimes the extremity of the urethra is closed ; after making water in a stream about the size of a bristle, the opening suddenly closes, and the patient cannot make a drop. If called to such a case, what you do is not to open the bladder, but you put the point of a lancet into the glans, just at the commencement of the urethra, the urine gushes out by the side of the lancet, and then a bougie requires to be worn to keep the orifice open. Such is the treatment of ob- struction of the urethra at its orifice. Chancres in Women. Chancres in women are often worse than in men : they attack the external labia, not unfrequently the inside of the nymph®, and the os externum vagin®. Sometimes a great number of these exist at the same time in one female, and are accompanied with but little irritation; she scarcely knows that she has them, till she feels the mine smart as it touches the skin ; this engages her attention, when she perceives that she has several pimples, which soon ulcerate. If this occur in a bad constitution, and extend into the cellular tissue, inflammation and sloughing of the part take place. Sometimes the labia and nymph® slough away, and in this way it is so many lose their lives. I visited one day the St. Giles’s workhouse, and in a small ward belonging to the medical establishment, I saw seven cases of sloughing chancre, and of these seven, five died. It is almost impossible for them to reco- ver, when there is such a destruction of parts. If you inquire into the history of the case, you find that it first began by a few pimples; the unfortunate female will also tell you that she con- tinued to walk the streets, night after night, exposed to vicissi- tudes of temperature; that she indulged in the use of spirituous