479 ON rOIJiONS the infection has been received ; in inoculated small-pox, about the tenth day ; the cow pox, the ninth or tenth ; in scarlatina, the seventh day, but I have known it show itself on the third day. I knew a lady whose family was exposed to the infection of scarlatina; the disease appeared in one of her children at the end of three days, in another on the fourth, in another on the fifth, and, in herself, at the end of three weeks or a month. I knew another child in whom the disease did not appear until the expiration of seventeen days. The measles usually appear from seventeen to fourteen days after infection, but generally about the eighth day : it is quite right that you should be acquainted with these particulars, for parents will think little of you if you are incapable of answering such questions. Well, then, natural small-pox about the four- teenth day ; measles from the seventh to the fourteenth ; and scarlatina about the end of a week. If children have imbibed the infection, it is wrong to prepare them for the consequences; for where children are so treated, they are invariably worse. With respect to scarlatina, the less the fever is which attends the disease, the greater I consider tlie danger to be from the local consequences, after the specific ma- lady has terminated. I will now say something of individual poisons. First, I must observe that there is a remarkable difference as to the time when the effects of morbid poisons begin to be manifested ; in some instances twelve months have been known to elapse after the in- sertion of the poison, before the symptoms appeared. Dr. Ba- bington published a case in the Medical Researches, where he stated that the symptoms were not apparent until the three hun- dred and sixty-fourth day after the insertion of the poison. Even the effects of marsh miasmata do not, in some instances, show themselves for some months after the infection has been received. A lady went into the country in August, having with her two children and two servants. The part of the country in which they resided during their absence was damp and boggy ; she re- turner] again the following October: at Christmas the youngest chrld was attacked wrth an intermittent fever, and a few days afterward.s the same disease appeared in the person of the eldest daughter; in succession the two servants, likewise, Irarl it. Well, then, here was an example in which the seed of an intermillent