)6fi ON ANEURISM OF THE AORTA. the chest, and found the pericardium distended witli blood, con- taining from a pint to a quart; and at the beginning of the aorta, just above the valves, there was an aneurism of the size of a wal- nut, which had burst. It is well that in this case the ligature was not applied, or the principal vessel divided, else the surgeon would probably have had the credit of killing the patient. 1 men- tion this case to put you on your guard, that you should never operate for aneurism till you have ascertained whether there be one situated in any other part; for it frequently happens that aneu- risms attack several parts at the same time. This I know, that a man came into this (St. Thomas’s) hospital with popliteal aneu- rism : and the operation was about to be performed, when on ac- count of a pain in the abdomen it was postponed. Before the next operating day he had died suddenly, and on examination, an aneurism was found between the two emulgent arteries. Well, then, before you operate for aneurism, see whether there be pain and pulsation in any other part. LECTURE XX. Aneurism of the Ascending Aorta. When an aneurism takes place between the heart and curva- ture of the aorta, you find, after a time, from the pressure of the aneurismal bag, the cartilages of the ribs become absorbed, as in the specimen before me (pointing to one on the table), where the cartilages of three of the ribs, and a portion of the sternum, have been absorbed ; when the aneurism presses on the lungs, dyspnoea comes on, together with cough, and the complaint is obscure, but at last the fulness on the right side, and the pulsa- tion to be felt by the pressure of the hand on the intercostal spaces, will enable you to distinguish this disease; then the ribs become absorbed, the aneurism presses against the pectoral muscle, absorption reaches the skin, and the sac bursts by the inflam- mation of the skin, the destruction of the life of the part, and the separation of the eschar. I will mention to you a case whicli shows liow life may be prolonged sometimes by the formation of an artificial sac ; a female in the other hospital had an aneurism of the ascending aorta; the skin had become in- flamed, the eschar was separating, and a small quantity of blood was discharged ; a clot of blood plugged up the orifice of the open- ing ; pieces of lint were applied, over wliich was put some ad- hesive plaister, and lastly a bandage. She lived twenty-seven