INFLAMMATION OF THE TESTICLES. 533 much pain, or excites inflammation, it should hot be used for three or four days together ; but, rather, at intervals of three or four days ; the Treatment to be pursued is, first, to order the patient a sus- pensory bandage, (indeed, if the gonorrhoea be at all violent, it is not right to attempt its cure without one ; it will often prove a preventive to inflamed testicles.) Well, then, first order a sus- pensory bandage ; give the patient two or three calomel and colo- cyuth pills ; and, in the morning, a dose of infi^sion of senna with sulphate of magnesia. Apply to the testis a lotion, com- posed of one ounce of spirits of wine and five ounces of water; or, muriate of ammonia and water, and a small quantity of the spirit. These means usually succeed in overcoming the disease ; if they should not, you must take blood from the scrotum, but not by the application of leeches, at least not in private practice, as the mess they produce would, in all probability, lead to an ex- posure of your patient’s malady; therefore, what I do is this —I direct the patient to stand before me, and, making the skin of the scrotum tense, I open three or four of the veins with the point of the lancet; then, by fomenting the scrotum with a little warm water, or directing the patient to stand before a fire, in five or ten minutes you obtain as much blood as is requisite, and by then making the patient lie down, the bleeding will immediately cease : thus, by this method, in a few minutes you procure more blood than you would in double the time by the application of leeches, and without any exposure. The weight of poultices is an objection to their employment; but fomentations may be pre- scribed with advantage, as they unload the vessels, and act bene- ficially in the same manner as leeches. At the same time pur- gative medicines should be freely administered. In some irritable constitutions, even all the remedies which I have named will not be successful; the pain and inflammation still continuing; and you are under the necessity of having re- course to ophim— the best form in which it can be given is that of the compound ipecacuanha powder. I prescribe ten grains of this, and two grains of calomel, to be taken at night; sometimes I order them night and morning. Dover’s powder and calomel thus combined, without exception, form the best remedy that I am aerjuainted with, for sulxluing irritable inflammation ; and after the operation of purgatives, you will find them of infinite service.