67T ON SUPPURATrON IN BONE. teum, and thus the matter is evacuated. In this way it often happens that there is little of the original bone left, but the weight of the body is principally supported by the new shell of bone which is formed. But if the constitution be so enfeebled that it connot deposit a sufficient quantity of bony matter e.xter- nally, whilst the process of absorption is going on within, then the coats of the bone become so thin, that the bone either breaks or cannot support the superincumbent pressure. The best treatment to pursue in this stage of the disease, is to inject the interior of the bone with the muriatic or nitric acid lotions, the latter is preferable, and at the same time insist on the observance of rest. Support the strength of the constitution, and avoid all those causes which would produce irritation, either generally or locally. Abscetses in the shell of the bone require to be treated in the same way, and their process of restoration occurs rather quicker than when the abscess is seated more internally. The portions of bone thus deprived of their vitality must sepa- rate, and this exfoliation of bone is either external or internal. When the periosteum is separated to any extent from the surface of the bone, if it be immediately replaced, it will again unite, and no exfoliation will ensue. But if it be allowed to remain detached from the surface-of the bone for twenty-four hours, it will not re- unite, the bone dies, and is ultimately separated. The dead portion appears at first white, but it soon becomes black from the hepatized ammonia formed during the putrefactive process. The separation of the dead from the living portion of the bone is a tedious process, and is effected by the action of the absorbents on the surfaces of the living bone removing that part which is in absolute contact with the dead bone; a space is thus formed into which granulations can rise. When these granulations reach the dead bone, they also act on it, and therefore you find the surface rough and uneven which is in contact with them, whereas the external surface remains perfectly smooth. The principles which are to guide you in the treatment are these quicken the progress of the granulations a little, and act chemically on the parts by the acids, and that acid which 1 have before named is the best. The quickest exfoliation of the tibia which I have ever known was accomplished in three months. Most generally, however, twelve months are necessary for this purpose, and it will very often require two years. But this de- pends very much on the activity of the constitution.