poly: I IN THE RECTUM. <159 mains for some time after the removal of the piles, the best treat- ment is to inject astringent lotions into the intestine, and to ap- ply the unguentuni gall® to the part. If the prolapsus is obsti- nate, you may make a little incision by the side of the sphincter ani, with a view of producing the adhesive inflammation, so as to glue the rectum to the cellular tissue surrounding it. This cannot, however, be done without danger in certain consti- tutions. Of Polypi in tup Rectum. Before I quit this subject I sliould observe that polypi some- times spring from the rectum. Most mucous surfaces produce polvpi, and the rectum among others. There is a preparation on the table exhibiting a polypus in the rectum ; there is one in the college, exhibiting a polypus in the internal surface of the blad- der. These appearances may excite your surprise when you meet with them, and 1 think it right, therefore, to describe them to you. They generally occur in children, and very rarely in adults. The most advanced age in which I have met with them is twenty-two. The child, whose case I described to you, who sat upon a needle which entered the bladder, and formed the nucleus of stone, had a polypus which extended a considerable length up the rectum. Its mother found something red descending, which was found to be a polypus, reaching three inches in length up the bowel. It was extremely vascular, of the same size throughout, and of a florid red colour, having nothing of the character of a pile. I found it hanging down from the centre of the anus, and on taking hold of it I drew down the rectum by it. This was the first case of the kind I had seen ; I had never before heard of the disease. This child was brought to my house, and on drawing down the rectum, I removed the polypus with a pair of scissors. While I was at the lecture, a person came from an inn in the Borough, where the parents of the child were staying, and told me that the child was bleeding very much. I requested Mr. II. Cline to go to the inn, who found that the bleeding was inconsiderable, and the child did extremely well. 'I'he way in which I have since removed polypi has been by drawing them down so as to bring into view the part of the rectum from which they spring, and, when this part is brought into view, to put a ligature round them, and remove the part below the ligature with a pair of scissors. I have seen in the course of my life ten cases of this kind, most of which occurred in infancy; two of them occurred at the