587 ON SCROFULA. could not surmount. Now, if you should unfortunately neglect to give mercury for the removal of primary syphilitic symptoms, let me exhort you never to be guilty of a similar neglect as re- gards the secondary; but, the moment they are presented to your notice, that instant commence exhibiting mercury, if the state of the patient will permit. All secondary symptoms, I am positive, may be prevented by a few grains of blue pHl, judiciously given. In saying this, do not let me refuse the tribute which is due to the ability and candour of Mr. Rose, whose experiments were conducted in a very judicious manner, and their results faithfully and honestly communicated to the profession. If, then, under the most favourable circumstances, and under th« most judicious management, secondary symptoms will appear, unless mercury be employed, is it right to withhold that remedy from those who are afflicted with the venereal disease ? Recol- lect, gentlemen, who Mr. Rose’s patients were; they were soldiers under orders, at the command of their officers, and wnatever reasonable thing they were ordered to do, they were obliged to comply with. You cannot expect your patients to be so circumstanced, nor will you find them subordinate. Con- sidering all the circumstances, I strenuously and conscientiously a/lvise you to adopt that plan which I have so often felt it my duly to point out to you in the course of this lecture. I have coly one more obseiration to make, which is, that syphilis should be cured by a slight, and not by a violent mercurial action ; continue to give it for the periods I have already mentioned; but do not produce what is commonly termed salivation ; it would rather prove injurious than beneficial. [.\t the conclusion of this lecture there was loud aud continued cheering.] LECTURE LXVI. .Scrofula. Gf.ntlv.mev, this appellation, at present used by surgeons, is a miserable title for the diseases which it is intended to represent; it is given to a class of diseases springing from debility. If asked what scrofula is, I should say that, in its character and origin, it is debility; that the disease, as it proceeds, becomes inflammatory ; but that it is connected with original weakness, and derives a po- culiar character on account of its arising from this source. You will find that scrofulous diseases are inflammatory, that they