270 ON HERNIA. this is continually liable to change place, a narrow belt joine l to the broad one should also go under the pendulous pait of the belly. InREDuciBi,E Umbilical Hernia. A hollowed truss, on the same principle as the one employed in iireducible femoral hernia, should be worn in this complaint. It should be buckled round the abdomen, and if omentum be contained in the hernial sac, it will be likely to be diminished in size, and the danger of the sac bursting will also be prevented. In strangulated umbilical hernia, before the operation is resorted to, the tobacco clyster should be employed, as it has a greater effect in relaxing the muscles and taking away the cause of tlie stricture in this than any other kind of hernia. Suppose you were called to a strangulated umbilical hernia, how would you endeavour to return if 1 If it were small, by the hand alone ; but if it were very large, you must take the bottom or flat surface of a wooden platter, lay it on the abdomen and press on it. (Here the learned professor showed the mode of doing it, which excited a smile throughout the class.) When the pressure has been kept up for some time, the orifice at the umbilicus becomes dilated, and the hernia returns. If the hernia is large, the means just mentioned must be usedj if small, employ the taxis, as in inguinal hernia. Operation for Umbilical Hernia. Of all operations for hernia, this is the most simple and most easily performed ; but it is not one of the most successful—there IS the difficulty of obtaining a flap of skin to close the opening. The plan you are to adopt in operating is to make first an incision across the tumour, and then another at right angles, so that the whole is like the letter x inverted. The integuments being thus divided, the corners of the incision are turned to one side, by which means the hernial sac is brought into view. This being carefully opened, the finger is to be passed to the orifice of the sac, at the umbilicus, and a blunt-pointed bistoury introduced on it. The stricture is to be divided upwards in the direction of the ensiform cartilage. Having returned the intestines, the paru are to be brought together, and a flap formed from above to cover the opening. If adhesions of the sides of the wound can be effected, the danger of peritoneal inflammation will be lessened. Dossils of lint and adhesive plaister are to be applied over the wound, flie after treatment is the same as for other herniae.