ON SYPHILITIC BUBO, 557 them to his wife. It is a common opinion that they are propa- gated bythe blood ; but do not entertain this idea—it is by the secretion of matter: Simple local irritation will produce warts. The secretion from the glandulte odorifer®, if not cleansed, will give rise to them, or any dirt between the penis and glans. The treatment is different, as the warts may be hard or soft. Soft warts readily bleed, and may be easily removed: the liquor, plumbi sub acetatis dilutus, applied to the surface of them, will remove the soft warts; the oxymurias hydrargyri will soon des- troy them. I have used the tinctura ferri muriatis, and the black wash and calomel, with good effect. The unguentum hydrargyri will soon dastroy them, by producing irritation, in- flammation, and a sloughing of the warts. The hard warts are more difficult to remove ; they had better be poulticed first, and then touched with the unguentum arsenicale, which should con- tain a drachm of the oxyde of arsenic to an ounce of lard. A few of the warts should be touched with this application in the beginning, and afterwards the whole. It produces inflamma- tion and sloughing of the warts. I scarcely ever use any thing else myself. Warts sometimes occur in females on the labia and nymphas, of a size you would scarcely credit. LECTURE LXIII. Syphilitic Bubo. Gestlemeh, we shall proceed to speak this evening of syphilitic bubo, and venereal sore throat. I he venereal poison is taken from the chancre on the penis, to the glands of the groin ; and, in its course, usually irritates one of them. Now and then the matter proceeds through them without producing any irritation, but more frequently it excites inflammation, and the common effects of inflammation, if it is not opposed ; that is, if a proper treatment be not pursued, the gland inflames and suppurates. It commonly happens that only one gland is affected in either groin in syphilis; now and then the contrary takes place; but, in general, when several glands are enlarged, it is from irritation, and not from the absorption of the venereal poison. When there is only one gland enlarged, and it goes into a sappurating state, it is usually the consequence of the stimulus of the syphilitic virus. 'I'herefore, you may con- clude, if several glands be enlarged, that it is not the effect of