ON NASAL POLYPI. 401 considerable magnitude. Wnen this is the case they extend into the pesterior nares, and often hang over the edge of the velum pendulum palati, so that you can frequently see them at the back of the mouth; and, if they are not quite so large as to allow of this, they may be distinctly felt on passing back the finger. Two of the largest of this kind of polypi that I ever saw were from Sudbury, in Suffolk. Here is one of them : it is of a size which rendered its removal by the forceps im- possible ; here is another preparation in which you see it extends through the velum, and here are others of a smaller size belonging to the same species. It not unfrequently hap- pens, when their removal is attempted by the forceps, that they will become broken, and some little address is'often requisite to prevent this difficulty; they are firmly attached to the pituitary membrane of the nose, and unless the points of the forceps are applied near this basis, you cannot expect to be successful in extracting every part of them ; consequently, they will again form, and the operation be again required. When you happen to pull away, along with the polypi, portions Df the bone and membrane, you destroy the sources whence hey originate, and in such cases prevent their return. Now, gentlemen, the remedy for these polypi is extraction oy means of forceps. Those generally employed are long, and Have small points, the insides of which points or blades are made rough to prevent their slipping from the peduncle, and thereby losing their hold; the manner of using the forceps is this: I pass up a probe in a direction between the superior and inferior turbinated bones, and feel for and ascertain the precise.si'nation of the peduncle; I give the probe the direc- tion which I have just stated to you, because I have invariably found these polypi springing from the jniddle chamber of the nose. I have never known one of them arise from the septum Darium. Well, having satisfied myself of the situation of the Peduncle, by means of the probe, then let it remain as a di- ector for the forceps, and having carried the points of the Virceps to the peduncle, thus guided by the probe, seize the >?duncle and tear it off by a sudden jerk of the forceps: by idopting this mode polypi may be effectually removed. Always lake care to lay hold of the peduncle, for, if you do not, and on the contrary, grasp the body -or end of the polypus, you will then break it off, and the introduction of the forceps will again and again required. Using the probe as a director