ON RACHITIS. (512 recommended In these cases. Little can be done, however, to prevent its progress when it is once formed, and I do not know that any advantage is to be derived from counter-irritation. Di- gitalis has been given, with a view of promoting absorption, but I have not known it in any instance succeed. Mr. Cline, senior, once gave it to a very considerable extent, to a boy fourteen or fifteen years old; the abscess diminished for a little time, but when the digitalis was given up, in consequence of its influence on the general health, the disease returned. Let the abscess pro- ceed until you obse. ve a redness or blush of the skin, and then adopt Mr. Abernethy’s plan of making a valvular opening into the part, so as to discharge the matter, and close the wound al- most immediately. The danger does not arise from the quantity of matter accumulated, but from the irritation produced by the attempts of nature to close the abscess, and fill the cavity by the process of adhesion. Four days after the abscess is opened, viol-nt symptoms of constitutional irritation are apt to come on, such as great depression of strength, loss of appetite, and the patient is soon reduced to the lowest extremity. It is extretholy ilesirable to prevent the occurrence of these symptoms; and the plan of Mr. Abernethy is the best that has ever been suggested by any surgeon, with a view of preventing them. You arc to make the opening obliquely, apply a bandage, which is fastened roii;;d the abdomen, and endeavour to bring the sides of the abscess as dose together as possible, in order to promote the process of ad- nesion. If ulceration should take place, the matter will be in this way discharged, and all you can do is to support the efforts of nature. I have frequently seen patients recover from this disease. I advise you to use all the means which I recommended in the first lecture on Scrofula, for the purpose of improving the general health of the patient. A considerable degree of rest should be enjoined; all exercise is injurious in this disease. Blisters are sometimes placed on the spine, and issues opposite the seat of the disease, but I am not sure that external irritation is of any considerable advantage. I have, however, seen benefit from injecting the abscess ; the injection usually employed is the sulphate of zinc, or alumen. It promotes the adhesive process in the interior of the abscess, glues its sides together, and lessens the vurulent secretion. R ACHITl.S. T shall conclude this lecture with a f“w observations on the sisoasc produced by debility of the vascular system, which is