ON ULCERATION. 63 but, because, when the gum by the adhesive process heals upon the divided part, a cicatrix is produced by this little operation which is very readily absorbed ; and the result is, that when the tooth rises, the child cuts it with much less pain and irritation than it would otherwise have done. If a man have inflammation in his leg, and this falls near a place where ulceration previously existed, the scar produced by the old ulcer gives way much more readily than the original skin. I have observed that if a patient under gonorrhoea has had an abscess in the the tirethra, which will now and then happen in consequence of suppuration of the lacunre, or if from the same cause he has had an abscess in the scrotum, or on the side of the penis, if he should get a second gonorrhcea, he will be sure to be attacked with a similar abscess. Proceed with as much care as you may—guard against inflammation with all possible caution—and yet, if he has ab- scess in the first gonorrhoea, it will infallibly return in the same part, if he get a second. One of the most remarkable instances of the readiness with which the process of absorption attacks newly-formed parts, may be seen in Lord Anson’s Voyage round the World'—a work which, I doubt not, is generally known to you. It is a most able and entertaining publication ; and if any student has not read it, I can strongly recommend it to his perusal : for, while profes- sional knowledge should undoubtedly be the first object of your pursuit, general literature should not be neglected, and is so far from being incompatible with that primary object, that it cannot fail to enlarge your views, and give efficacy to your professional researches. So intimate is the connexion between every object of useful and scientific inquiry, that there is hardly one branch of knowledge which does not in some measure throw light and illustration upon another. The circumstance which I am about to mention may illustrate this remark. Lord Anson’s book is one of the most valuable works which has appeared on nautical subjecLs ; nor Ls it without its use as illustrative of a principle in surgery. Lord Aason’s expedition to the Pacific Ocean was undertaken with a view of destroying the power of Spain in the New World. As he was obliged to sail sooner than he ex- pected, many of the crew which he took out were invalids, some having cicatrices, and others having previously had fraetnred bones. In his passage round Cape Horn, he encountered very severe weather ; many ships were obliged to return ; some were