ON amaurosis. 300 medicine must be given, let whatever quantities may have been taken before. The best form in which it can be exhibited is that of calomel ; let it be given internally after the bleeding, in the dose of two or three grains combined with about a thiid or a quarter of a grain of opium, so as to prevent its acting on the bowels. In order that the calomel may affect the system, it must be given every fourth or sixth hour, till the mouth is sore ; in more chronic forms of this complamt it may be given less frequently. As soon as the system has become affected, you will see the zone of vessels disappearing, the lymph absorbed, the aqueous humour becoming clear, and the cornea losing its hazy appearance. Other remedies have been recommended, but there is not one on which you can rely but the exhibition of mercury. The belladonna will be found a very useful adjunct in this complaint; by dilating the pupils, the adhesions are often prevented from forming between the iris and capsule of the crystalline lens, and when they are formed, it tends to elon- gate the adhesions. The belladonna should be applied, in the form of extract, around the eye, morning and evening. Amaurosis. By amaurosis, I mean partial or total loss of vision arising from paralysis of the optic nerve or retina ; and this is produced by a congestion of the vessels of the part, or minute alteration of its structure. The symptoms distinguishing this complaint are few, and therefore require to be well known. The pupil is gene- rally dilated and motionless ; the iris is nearly immoveable, acts very little, and vision is completely destroyed. There is also blight strabismus. In amaurosis, there is frequently the sensa- tion as if a cloud were before the eye, which is termed ealigo, and there is often a greenish appearance of the humours, which is named glaticoma. This depends on an alteration of the lens, or an alteration in the structure of the vitreous humour. The persons subjected to this complaint are those who have been in the habit of viewing minute objects, or exposing the eyes to strong light. Persons affected with amaurosis are frequently troubled with false appearances—as flashes of light, or balls of fire before their eyes. I shall divide the causes of amaurosis into three parts;—1st, Those which affect the retina or optic nerve. 2d, Those affecting the brain, or that part of it from which tl»e optic nerves arise, the thalamia nervorum opticorum. And, 3dly, Those affecting the body at large or some particular organ, and thus sympathetically affecting the eye.