1 17 TREATMENT OF GANGRENE. living parts; it is a very useful application then in gangrene. .During the sloughing process, tiae nitric acid is the best applica- tion that can be used: when the gangrene stops, and the line of demarcation is drawn, and the sloughing process is commencing, the nitric acid may be employed in the proportion of fifty drops to a pint of water. I have seen very good effects from an appli- cation composed of vinegar and camphor mi.\ture, about four ounces of the vinegar to twelve ounces of the camphor mixture ; I have seen this of service when no other application had been used, as in the case of a gentleman at Peckham, who m I at- tended with Mr. A. These are the different modes of treatment for the prevention of gangrene, and the arresting of the slough- ing process. On the propriety op Amputation in Gangrene. As to the propriety of amputation—there is no occasion in general for amputation in cases of gangrene when the slough- ing process is going on, as you have an opportunity of seeing in the man at the other hospital, where nature has performed the operation herself, without any assistance ; if the surgeon will be content to wait a short time, and the patient is dis- posed also, you will find that the parts will separate as well without as with an operation. Now the old surgeons, who ob- served nature well, adopted the very same plan in their amputations as nature pursues in these cases ; the skin separates the longest, the muscles next, and then the tendons, together with the bones, which are left considerably shorter than the rest, as you may observe from the specimen on the table. When bones ulcerate, the tendon soon separates, and the bones become co- vered in by skin and muscle; the limb, however, before me, was amputated. The cases in which you are called on to perform the operation of amputation are when the patient will not be able to sustain the shock to the constitution ; then, gentlemen, if gan- grene be going on in any part, or through the middle of the leg, by which the power of the constitution will be nearly de- stroyed, you may have recourse to an operation; but even here there will not always be occasion for it. You have an opportu- nity of seeing in the other hospital at present, in a case to which I have so often alluded, separation taking place above the centre of the leg; there Ls no necessity to amputate always un- der such circumstances, and you can give the patient chance of his life, without resorting to it, if he dread the knife.