362 OPKnATION OF I.ITHOTOMT. mine in his bladder in order that the sudden gush of water, on the introduction of the gorget, may inform them that the instru- ment has reached the bladder. This practice is, however, wrong ; because, when the patient is allowed to retain a considerable quantity of urine, th^t bladder suddenly contracts, when it is dis- charged, and so firmly embraces the stone, that when you intro- duce the forceps there is no space between the bladder and the stone, and the instrument constantly slips from the stone. In this way the patient is often exhausted by the repeated attempts at its extraction. I once saw a patient of Mr. Travers under these circumstances, though he afterwards recovered from the operation. I have no doubt he well remembers the case to which 1 allude ; immediately after the gush of urine, the bladder contracted at its fundus, and the forceps slipt repeatedly from the stone, in the manner which I have described. Soft stones require the use of the scoop ; a number of calculi will require either the frequent introduction of the forceps, or the use of the scoop. I do not recollect that there is any other circumstance which I nee4 mention to you respecting the lateral operation for stone. After-Treatment.—respect to the after-treatment, some surgeons inject the bladder, with a view of removing every re- maining fragment of stone. This is not the practice in these hospitals, and I am by no means satisfied that it is of any use. It might have been necessary when dressings were applied to the wound, but this is never done now ; the wound is left open, so that the urine may distil as freely as possible. In this way any remaining portion of calculous matter is carried away, and there is no danger of its accumulating in the bladder. The after-treat- ment consists in giving the patient opium as soon as the operation is over; indeed, in some cases where the patient is exceedingly irrritable, I give opium two or three hours before the operation is performed. I do this with two views ; first, because the opium deadens the sensations of the patient, and he suffers much 1^ pain from the operation ; and secondly, because it renders him much less irritable after the operation. The patient often falls into a composed and tranquil sleep in consequence of the opium, instead of rolling about the bed in an irritable state. The opium, therefore, acts beneficially, by diminishing immediate and remote irritability, and I have never found it produce any improper ef- fect. It will be proper to give diluents very freely to the patient;