ON INJURIES OF THE SPINE, 1£8 with the scarificator. If, at the end of a week or ten days, the paralytic state still continues, you must apply a blister to the loins, and keep it dressed with equal parts of the unguentuin lyttae, and unguentum sabinae. The lytta being in this way ab- sorbed into the constitution, diminishes the disposition to paraly- sis, while the counter-irritation also produces good effects. Such is the plan of treatment to be pursued in cases of concussion of the spine. With respect to extravasation on the spine, the ex- amples are but few in which this has occurred. The cases which are more particularly impressed upon my mind, are, first, one which was examined in this hospital by Mr. Henry Cline. A person received a severe blow near the cauda equina, by the last dorsal vertebra. He had paralysis of the lower extremities, and shortly after died. The second case was one under Mr. Heaviside, in which I and Dr. Baillie were also consulted. A young gentlemam was swinging with a party of boys, when one of his companions pushed him, that he might rise as high as possible, while two others ran in the opposite direction, and caught him in the neck with a rope as he descended. He was thrown out of the swing, and when he was taken up, was found to be para- lytic in the lower extremities. He soon became paralytic in his upper extremities also, and a few weeks afterwards he was brought to town in this state. It was suspected that there was some disease of the spine, produced by the injury the neck received, when the rope suddenly caught it, but no deformity could be discovered. An issue in the neck was advised, with a view of producing counter-irritation; but before this plan could be carried into effect, the boy died. On examining the body, it was found that one of the vertebral arteries had burst, and that extensive extravasation had taken place from the foramen magnum of the sixth cervical vertebra. The whole sheath of the spinal marrow was covered with blood. IMr. Heaviside has a beautiful preparation made from this subject. These cases, probably, admit of no remedy where the extrava- sation is considerable. I do not know what can be done, except to bleed in the first instance in order to prevent further extra- vasation ; and afterwards to promote absorption, and excite counter-irritation by the application of blisters. I mention these cases to you as worth knowing, that you may make your own ob- •ervauons on them wdien they occur, rather than as cases anout