208 ON THE CURE OF HYDROCELE. I Jo not think Sir J. Earle has received the due meed of merit to ■which he is entitled for this improvement. I have, myself, always spoken of him in the same terms as this evening, and I shall ever continue to do so. The instruments required for this operation are an elastic bottle, with a stop-cock, a trocar, and canula. The elastic bottle should be of moderate size, and only half the quantity of fluid contained in it should be thrown in at a time, lest the action of the cremaster should force a part of it into the cellular tissue. If this happens, inflammation and sloughing may take place around the part at which the canula is introduced. The trocar should be two inches long, and the canula should be but small. The trocar and canula should be put separately into the box, for if you are obliged to put the trocar in the canula, it will soon contract, rust, and be unfit for use. The fluid used for the injection should be of a stimulating kind. If you use port wine, the proportion of wine and water should be half and half. If it be old port wine, you may mix five parts of wine with three of water ; but if the wine be such as is commonly got at taverns and public-houses, in which there is a good deal of log-wood or sloe-juice to make it astringent, and a good deal of brandy to make it strong, a less proportion of wine must be used, as the injection would otherwise be too stimulating to the tunica vaginalis. Brandy, or spirits of wine, may also be employed ; in the latter case, take one part of spirits of wine to fifteen parts of water. The injection which we generally use in the hospitals is the sulphate of zinc, in the proportion of one drachm to a pint of water. A gentleman, on being told that we employed the sulphate of zinc in hospitals, for injection in hydrocele, exclaimed, “ Oh, I suppose you do this to save your wine.” It is not to save our wine, however, gentlemen, that we prefer this solution, but because we are better enabled to judge precisely of the strength of the stimulus by the use of the sulphate of zinc than by that of wine, which is sub- ject to so much adulteration. Water itself will produce a stimulating effect, if used cold. A gentleman, whose name does not immediately occur to me, has written a treatise, in which he produces several cases of the successful treatment of hydrocele, by an injection of cold water. You must not sup- pose, however, that one fluid will answer the purpose as well as another; for I remember a case in which an injection of milk, which was used by the surgeon on the supposition o