ON ULCERATION. 62 vomiting. These effects are produced in the following manner: the surface of the abscess becoming united with a portion of intestine or stomach by the adhesive process, the ulcerative action commences, by which a communication is formed be- tween these surfaces, and the matter is discharged in the manner before mentioned, without danger, or at least with little danger, to life. The same thing takes place in absorption of the bones. Thus, in ulceration of the tibia, the matter breaks through the skin, or that surface which is only covered by skin and periosteum. This is a law in part depending on the less vitality and greater irrita- bility of those parts which are nearest the surface of the body. The external parts of the body are the most weakly with respect to circulation, and most readily absorbed. I do not mean to say that they are weakly with respect to quantity of blood, for they possess a considerable share of vascularity ; but they are weakly with respect to the living powers. The external parts of the body are more irritable, and more subject to vicissitudes of action from corresponding changes of temperature than other parts of the body. They have less strength of circulation, and consequently give way to ulceration more readily than those parts which are more deeply seated, and possess a greater strength of circulation. Another reason is, that the adhesive process goes on glueing the more internal parts, while the ex- ternal, which are thin and weak, become united to these parts, and, in this way form a considerable solid. An instance of this is found in the adhesion of the pleura to a lung, so as to form one structure. It may be considered, then, as a law of the animal economy, that the ulcerative process has a disposition towards the nearest external surface of the body. Those parts of the body which are newly formed are more liable to be absorbed than those which have long existed. A part covered by a cicatrix proceeds rapidly to ulceration, because it is more weakly constituted than those parts which have ex- isted longer. The irritability of a part is proportional to its weak- ness; and the parts which are weak and writable fall most readily into the ulcerative process. To take a familiar illustra- tion—when a child labours under symptoms of constitutional de- rangement in cutting a tooth, why do you lance its gums ; \ ou cut the gums, not for the purpose of making an immediate pas- sage for the tooth, and procuring immediate relief to the child