425 ON FISTULA IN ANO. and a tea-spoonfur of it to be taken two or three times a-day. This medicine, in a very short time, biings the fistula into a healing stale; healthy granulations arise.from the surface, and the discharge, instead of being serous or bloody, consists of good pus. Subrauriate of mercury, with saline purges, should be oc- casionally given during the use of these aromatic confections, with a view of promoting the secretion of the liver and intestines. The operation of dividing tlie sphincter ani, is simple in propor- tion as you find a ready opening into the rectum. You introduce a small probe-pointed bistoury into the fistula, pass your finger up the rectum to meet the instrument, and, carrying the point downwards, divide the intervening parts. If the fistula is very extensive, you will be under the necessity of putting your finger on the extremity of the instrument, drawing the knife down- wards. If the fistula does not open into the rectum, you must pass the instrument up the sinus till it reaches the extremity ; put yonr finger into the rectum to meet the knife, place it along the end of the knife, and move the rectum for some little time with your finger nail, and then, cutting through the cellular tis- sue, briug the point of the instrument into the rectum. Mr. Savigny invented for this purpose a knife with two blades, one pointed, the other round ; the pointed knife sliding on the side of a probe bistoury. The objection to this instrument, however, is, that it occupies too much space ; so that a small sinus will not receive it. A very copious hemonhage generally follows the division of the intestine ; you must not, therefore, leave your patient, but endeavour to stop the hemorrhage by introducing a portion of lint into the wound. No union of the sphincter ani will take place, until granulations have arisen at the parts of the wound most distant from the rectum. You should not change the lint for several days, but apply poultices, and merely intro- duce a probe from day to day, to see that there is no improper adhesion. If you were to put fresh lint immediately, it would excite inflammation, and produce fresh abscesses in the sur- rounding cellular tissue. On the fourth or fifth day you may in- sert a small quantity of fresh lint; healthy granulations will arise in about a fortnight, under the treatment which I have al- ready pointed out to you ; you may then apply lint dipped in a Solution of the sulphate of copper. The sore will often assume an indolent state, when you think it is on the point of healing. Injections are sometimes success-