ON THE CURE OF ANEURISM. 174 a circumstance which you should bear in mind, because in cases where they are so situated as not to admit of surgical relief, it is a consolation to the patient to know that these diseases now and then cure themselves. There are many examples of such a spontaneous cure ; I have myself seen some and many more are to be found in surgical and medical authors. There is a preparation before us, taken from a man in the other hospital, who had an aneurism, situated just below the groin, which un- derwent a spontaneous cure. He was sitting before the fire, in one of the wards of the hospital, when he felt something burst in the upper part of his thigh. On examination he found no blood had issued out, and, in fact, the aneurism had not yet reached the skin so as to be adherent to it. His thigh was, how- ever, enormously swollen ; he was unable to use the limb, and was put to bed by the other patients. For three days after a pul- sation was found in the aneurism ; it then cetised, and the size of the limb began to diminish. At the end of four months the aneurismal swelling had considerably diminished, and he recover- ed the use of the limb. Six months after he first felt this sen- sation, and when he had been discharged from the hospital, I met him as I wtis walking across the square of the other hospital, I said to him, “ Why, Powell, you seem low-spirited ; you ought to be cheerful, for you have had a very narrow escape.” “ Yes,” said the man, “ I am pretty well, sir, except that I have some- thing alive in my belly.”—(A laugh)—“I hope you have,” said I, “ for it would be rather awkward if you had not.” On putting my hand on his abdomen, I felt a pulsating swelling there. This aneurism shortly afterwards burst into the abdomen, and the man died. On examination of the body, it was found that the aneu- rism in the thigh, just below Pouparls ligament, had burst under the fascia lata ; a great accumulation of blood took place, which pressed upon the vessel, and the femoral artery was obliterated. Sir W. Blizard had a patient at Walworth, with popliteal aneu- rism, which was cured spontaneously. Mr. Ford mentions se- veral cases ; and Dr. Baillie met with two cases of carotid aneu- rism, which cured themselves. Mr. Crampton, the surgfeon-ge- neral at Dublin, has given an account of a case in which the aneurism gradually wasted in the abdomen, and obliterated the aorta. An account of a similar case has been given by Baron Larrey, the French surgeon. An Irish gentleman, whose name does not