ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION—APPEARANCES. your minds, for there are two modes by which union can be ef- \icted, viz., by adhesion and by granulation ; therefore remove all clots of blood, which will only act as extraneous bodies and xeep up irritation. You are to cut off one end of the ligature close to the vessel, and let the other hang out of the wound : it has been recommended to cut off both ends of the ligature close to the vessel; this plan has, however, been already given up. This was detennined by Mr. Hunter, in the first operation he performed for aneurism on the trunk of the artery above the tu- mour, instead of on the aneurism itself; for in that instance he cut the ligature close to the knot, and copious suppuration after- wards took place. Ligatures can only be removed from the ves- sels by suppuration or absorption, (in the latter case they must be first dissolved, and then removed by the absorbents) ; and conceiving that if a ligature, composed of a substance ezisily so- luble, were applied to a vessel, and cut close to the knot, it might be dissolved, and then absorbed, I applied a catgut one to the femoral artery of an old man, whom I operated on for popli- teal aneurism, and cut it close to the vessel; this case turned out well, for adhesion followed, and suppuration did not ensue. Al- though successful here, I have tried it in several cases since, and have failed in all, suppuration coming on afterwards. 1 applied a silk ligature to the carotid of a dog on one side, and a catgut one to the carotid, on the opposite side. Upon killing the dog some days afterwards, I found the second ligature (catgut) bu- ried in a cyst, and that the first advanced by the process of ulcer- ation to the side of the larynx. Experiment and observation show, then, that it is better to cut one end of the ligature off, and to leave the other hanging from the mouth of the wound, tr be removed when the ulcerative process is completed, which is from ten to fourteen days. Dr. Veitch, 1 believe, first advised the removal of half the ligature. After amputation, having disposed your ligatures in a line with each other, and leaving them to hang out at the most depending nart of the wound, you will, if the limb be removed above the elbow or knee, apply a bandage to prevent retraction of the muscles and extensive suppuration. I have seldom succeeded with my stumps above the knee when I have not used a roller; It is better to apply a roller in such cases, for the muscles will men be glued together, and foiin one consolidated mass. Having applied a roller, and brought the integuments together, I merely