SIZE OF CALCULI. bl2 relative portion of materials in each species. The result of this ana- lysis, as far as my memory bears me out, were as follows. of the 1.50 calculi sixteen were uric acid. 'I'his led me to remark, that uric acids were not the most common ; they occur in the proportion o sixteen in 150. Forty-five were composed of uric acid in consider- able quantity, with triple phosphate in a smaller proportion ; uric acid plus, and triple phosphate minus. Sixty-three were com- posed of triple phosphate in a larger, and uric acid in a smaller proportion ; triple phosphate plus, and uric acid minus. Twelve were entirely triple phosphates ; five were composed of uric acid with a nucleus of the phosphate of lime, and six were mulberry calculi. The analysis stand thus ;— Of 150 calculi 16 were uric acid. 45 uric acid plus, triple phosphate minus. 66 triple phosphate plus, uric acid minus. 12 triple phosphate. 5 uric acid with a nucleus of phosphate of lime. 6 mulberry calculi. 150 AVith respect to the medical treatment of calculi, when a per- son says to me, “ I think I can dissolve a stone by some chemi- cal menstruum, ” my features, which are more disposed to the ri- sible than the solemn, are apt to give way ; I generally smile. The menstrua employed for the purpose of dissolving stones in the bladder undergo so much alteration before they reach the cavity of the bladder, that they can have very little influence on a stone already formed. Nay, I can tell you more, if those very menstrua be injected directly on the surface of a stone ex- isting in the bladder, the stone will still remain undissolved. I witnessed an admirable case in the other hospital, which was kept for a length of time under a dresser of mine, who was very chemically disposed, and who thought he could dissolve the stone by the injection of the menstrua best adapted for that pur- pose. He did so for a long time, and taught the man to inject these menstrua into the bladder himself. 1 used, in going through these wards, to say to this man, “ Well, are you any better ’ ’’ The man shook his head. After a time however, on my re-