264 ON IIBRMA. moral hernia, and never found one but had a distinct covering, formed by an elongation of the crural sheath. The peritoneal Mc being exposed, an opening is to be made into it, and the finger introduced towards the cavity of the abdomen, to ascertain the seat of stricture. The finger sometimes cannot be got within the femoral ring, (at which point the stricture is situated,) and then a director merely must be used. Such is the difficulty in femoral hernia of getting any instrument beneath the stricture. Femoral hernia is subject to very little variety. I have seen a case where the hernia had acquired such a size that the sides of the sac had given way, and it protruded to a great distance from Poupart’s ligament. This only happens in those cases where the hernia is very large. Another variety is, when the obturator artery arises from the epigastric, and surrounds the sac. Dr. Barclay, a gentleman of great respectability in his profession, and possessed of extensive anatomical knowledge, was so kind as to send me a specimen of femoral hernia, in which the obturator, arising from the epigastric, passed over the front of the sac. But although the obturator not unfrequently arises from the epi- gastric, it rarely passes over the front of the hernial sac, but goes behind it to the obturator foramen. Another case of this kind fell under the notice of Mr. Wardrop, whilst travelling on the continent. Excepting these varieties, I have met with no other; the course is the same. Other varieties have been said to occur, but I have never met with them, nor do I believe they are ever found. Now, gentlemen, we shall proceed to speak of the treatment of femoral hernia; and, first, the Treatment of Reducible Femoral Hernia. The truss required for this kind of hernia is different from that which will do in inguinal hernia. . 'I'he pad should be at right angles to the spring, placed lower down than an inguinal hernia, so as to cover the crural sheath, and the space through which the hernia protrudes. The truss I mentioned in the last lecture is sometimes used, but it does not answer quite so well as the truss I have just al- luded to, as it is likely to rise from iu place. The truss that ought to be worn is a right-angled truss, i. e. with the pad at right angles to the spring. But I must state to you, that femo- ral hernia is rarely cured by the application of a truss; it ia right that I should lecommend this plan of treatment to your at- tention, and that it should, in some cases, be steadily persevered