ON GRANULATION. 82 same thing happens with respect to granulations springing from tendons, (as the tendo achillis, for instance,) which are entirely insensible. So granulations arising from fascia, and the aponeurosis of muscles are indued with little sensibility. In general, therefore, although granulations springing from parts of great, sensibility are sometimes exquisitely sensitive, those arising from parts in a great degree insensible, or en- rirely so, as tendons, are not sensitive; a circumstance which you cannot at any time go round a large hospital without having an opportunity of witnessing. Granulations are very readily united to each other. The mode in which union is efiected, is, by bringing the edges of the two granulating surfaces together, so as to produce the ad- hesive process. The surface of the granulations will be covered by adhesive matter, and you have only to apply the two surfaces to each other to produce an union. The knowledge of this princi- ple is very often useful in the practice of surgery. A man has a considerable portion of the scalp raised from the skull, and the pericranium throws out granulations, whilst the raised portion of scalp IS also granulating. Instead of waiting for the tedious pro- cess of the union of both surfaces, by granulations filling the cavity, you have only to place one portion of the granulations upon the other, bind them well down with adhesive plaister, and they will be sure to inosculate. In this manner, a surface, which it would otherwise have taken a long time to close, will be healed in a few days. The cavity of the scrotum, after removal of the testicles, is often covered with a great number of granulations, by bringing the surfaces of which together with adhesive plaster, a wound, which would otherwise require weeks in healing, will be healed in a very short time. It was upon this principle, namely, that of bringing together the granulating surfaces, that Mr. Baynton proceeded with so much success in the treatment of ulcers ; so that our hospitals are now much less filled than they formerly were with those opprobria of our art. The next subject to which I shall direct your attention is the closing of sores by cicatrization. The formation of the new skin with which a sore is covered over is called c;catrization, which is produced in the following manner :—The vessels at the edge of the skin form granulations, and these granulations unite with the granulations of the surface of the sore. The granulations produced from the edge proceed