DISEASE OF THE BLADDER. 529 HIM of suppositories. You may also administer opium in conjunc- tion with the liquor, potassae; as the former, however, occasions costiveness, you had better combine the latter with some bitter tincture. A. confined state of the bowels is to be obviated by the exhibition of castor oil. After shaving oft' the hair, a. blister should be applied over the region of the pubes; the counter irri- tation thus produced will prove of infinite service. There is a foolish prejudice against the use of blisters in complaints of the bladder, from a belief that the cantharides become absorbed— this is a false theory. ^ To keep the bladder in a state of rest, a short catheter should be kept introduced ; the instrument should only just enter the bladder ; you know that the length of the urethra scarcely ever varies from nine inches; consequently you have no difficulty in knowing the length of the instrument that you ought to pass: a flexible catheter is the one that you are to employ, and after sufficient has been introduced, the remainder may be cut off; it should be tied to a bandage carried between the thighs and round the loins. The instrument thus used will afford great ease, and keep the bladder at rest, by allowing the urine to escape as fast as It streams from the ureters ; thus keeping the bladder conti- nually empty. If the bladder should be ulcerated, it ought not to prevent this method of treatment; on the contrary, it is the best that can be adopted; for, by keeping the bladder at rest, you aflford the sores an opportunity of healing; this, then, is the treatment for irritable and ulcerated bladder. Of iVlccous Disease op the BcAODEn, Or, it might be denominated, catarrh of the bladder. This disease is known by the discharge from the urethra, of an enor- mous quantity of ropy mucous ; it is so thick, that it will hang to the sides of the vessel, and is of a yellowish colour. It is produced fiom the internal surface of the kidneys, ureters, and bladder. I this morning saw a genlleni.in, having this complaint, and it had existed for two years. The Trealmenl is as follows ;—Introduce a short catheter, as in the last case ; let your medical treatment consist in the exhibition of oxymur. hydrarg. gr. l-8th ter die ; and likewise three times a- dayyou should give 3j. spir. aether, nitrici in Jiss. mist, camphor. Persons having this disease should drink plentifully of soda water. But the best remedy that tliey can possibly tike is the balsam of copaiba; no medicine so completely roos the unne of ‘i u