498 ON VIRULENT GONORRIUEA. proper term for this species of irritation, because the swelling undoubtedly arises in consequence of the gonorrhoeal inflamma- tion running along the course of the absorbent glands; it is a continuation of the inflammation along the course of the vessels With respect to the internal course of gonorrhoea, the effusion in the urethra often proceeds further than the original seal of the inflammation. Swelling and suppuration often take place in the mouths of the lacunse ; matter is very commonly accumulated in the lacunae, and especially in the lacuna magna, w hich may be known by a swelling and fluctuation on the sides of the fraenum. Irritation and inflammation also take place in the corpora spongiosa, producing that painful state of the parts termed chordee, in which the penis feels as if it were bound down, so as to prevent a complete extension. The penis is sometimes curved, and sometimes turned considerably to one side. The next effect of gonorrhoea is the production of stricture, which is generally seated near the bulb of the urethra, and arises from the diminished diameter of the canal, in consequence of the thickening of the part from inflammation ; another effect is an inflammatory state of the muscles of the perineum, accompanied with great irritation, and violent spasmodic contractions. The inflammation sometimes extends itself to the spot where the vasa deferentia open at the verumontanum, producing a swell- ing, which was absurdly called hernia humoralis. When it ex- tends to the prostatic part of the urethra, there is great irritation at the neck of the bladder; the patient is often under the ne- cessity of pressing on the perineum when he makes -water, and soon after inflammation of the testicle begins. Whenever an old fool gets a gonorrhoea, it is generally accom- panied with an enlarged state of the prostate gland, and he rarely escapes without experiencing the most excruciating suffer- ing from this cause. It rarely happens that an old man gets this disease without having bitter reason to repent of his folly. 1 he bladder becomes affected, in consequence of the gonorrhoea! tu- flamraation ; it becomes highly irritable, and the patient expe- riences a constant inclination to make water. '1 hus gonorrhoea produces various effects, not only in its external but in its internal course; such as abscesses in the lacunae, stricture, inflamraalion of the prostate gland, and irritability of the bladder. It is not 80 simple a disease, therefore, as you might be disposed to ima- gine. 'I'here is no comparison as to the difficult}' of getting rid