ON GRANULATION. 8U do you think you can make my legs straight?” “Sir,” said the doctor, “ I think I can: if you will take a lodging in my neighoourhood, I think I can scrape down your shins, and make them as straight as any man’s.” A lodging was taken; the father of the patient assisted in the operation, and all three of tliem—the father, the son, and the doctor—took a turn in scraping down the convex shins. A great deal of rasp- ing was required ; an incision of very considerable extent was made in the skin the integument was turned aside, and an instru- ment which was at that time contained in the surgeon’s case, called a rougee, was employed to scrape the shin bone. When the doctor was tired of rasping, the father took a spell, and the patient, in his turn, relieved his father. At last the shell of the bone became so thin, that the doctor S2ud they must proceed no further with that leg. The other leg was then rasped in a similar manner, and thus large wounds were produced in both of the shin bones. The surfaces granulated very kindly, and very little ex- foliation of the bones took place ; but, unluckily, the granulations would form bone, so that up jumped the bones of the shin again. The doctor, however, was not to be defeated, and accordingly put a layer of arsenic over the whole surface. It was in conse- quence of the effects of this application that I saw the patient. The arsenic was absorbed into the system, and he became pEuu- lytic in his arms and lower extremities. A great number of ex- foliations took place in his legs j and he showed me a large box, in which the exfoliated portions of bone were contained. I re- commended him to go to the country, and he went to Bath, where he staid for some time, and got rid of his paralysis. This case made a good deal of noise in town; and there were some surgeons who expressed a strong wish to prosecute the doctor. I recom- mended them, however, not to take any steps until I had seen the patient himself; and when he next came to me, I asked him whether bethought his legs improved, and whether he would again undergo the same operation, at a similar hazard of his life, to have his legs made a little straighter ? He replied that he would ; and under these circumstances I was of opinion that, as the young man was content, it was a folly to think of prosecuting the doctor. The patient, in this case, appeared to be as great a fool as the doctor whom he consulted, and deserved to be punished for his lolly. I have no wish to injure individuals; and I shall not, therefore, mention the name of the operator. Some time has