ON POISONS. 494- by particular medicines, in whatever way those medicines may be introduced into the circulation. Certain substances have uni- formly specific effects on particular parts of the body ; thus, can- tharides act on the neck of the blidder, aloes on the rectum, and other medicines, which we arefin the habit of using, have an in- fluence on one part of the body, to the exclusion of all the rest. This subject is well deserving of attention ; it has been but little investigated, and affords an ample field for research and useful discovery. The oxymuriate of mercury is often used for the pur- pose of destroying life ; it produces vomiting and purging, great depression of strength, coldness of the extremities, and death fre- quently ensues in the course of a few hours. With respect to the means which should be employed with a view of removing the oxymuriate of mercury from the stomach, I will tell you what I believe to be the best remedy to resort to ai the moment, for it will often happen that you cannot obtain the best chemical pre- parations for that purpose. It is well known that the carbonate of potash or soda decomposes this substance. What I should ad- vise you to do, therefore, would be to mix a quantity of soap with warm water, and, making it as thick a lather as you can, give it in large quantities to the patient. I have myself tried this reme- dy, and my patient recovered, whether post hoc or propter hoc, I will not decide, but my belief is, that I could not have admini- stered a better remedy than that which suggested itself to me on the sudden, if I had been in Apothecaries’ Hall. The alkali ol the soap immediately decomposes the oxymuriate of mercuiy, while the greasy matter sheaths the stomach, and checks the further influence of any portion of the substance which might re- main. This, therefore, appears to be the best extemporaneous remedy you can employ in such cases. Diluents should be given to a very considerable extent, as well as the alkali. It may appear that I am disposed to think too well of the in- strument to which 1 before adverted, when I state that I believe that the syringe may also be successfully employed for the pur- pose of removing the oxymuriate of mercury from the stomach. J should certainly prefer it to any other means ; but instead of using simple water, 1 should throw in a quantity of soap and wa- ter ; then withdraw it. 1 should repeat this operation until the st'imacli was entirely cleansed. It has been suggested, that al- though this instrument may be used with success for the purpose of removing the vegetable poisons from the stomach, yet it would