623 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SPINE. Paralysis of the upper extremities is sure to be the result, and also of the lower parts of the body, but this paralysis is not com- plete. The fourth and fifth cervical are most commonly fractured; the intercostal muscles are paralysed, respiration is very difficult, and wholly performed by the diaphragm, and the patient dies sometimes in about thirty hours, but generally from three to seven days. The abdomen is also distended from flatulency, as when the dorsal vertebra: have been injured. The other sytrtp- toms are the same as in fractures below the cervical, as regards the lower extremitie.s, the bladder, and the sphincter ani. If any of the cervical vertebra; be broken above the fourth, death is im- mediately the result; the phrenic nerve is paralysed, and the ac- tion of the diaphragm consequently suspended, and respiration can be no longer performed. Fractures sometimes occur without displacement, and by admitting of unnatural positions of the spinal column, produce symptoms of irritation; and sometimes, by allowing pressure, cause death. This fracture (shewing a preparation), without displacement, happened in a child who lived nearly twelve months after the accident; he was obliged to walk very carefully, and to support his head with his hand when he wanted to turn towards any particular object. On dissection, it was found that the atlas was broken through, and that the processus dentatus of the second cervical vertebra; had so far lost its support, that under the different inclinations of the head, great care was necessary to prevent its pressing on the spinal marrow. Sometimes, portions of the spinous processes are broken off, but these affect the spinal marrow in no other way than that the blow necessary to accomplish the one usually produces a concussion of the other. Extravasation sometimes takes place into the spinal canal, from very severe blows upon the vertebr®, and if in any considerable rjuantity, produces the usual symptoms of compres- sion. From the cause just mentioned, the spinal marrow is also liable to concussion. The lower extremities become paralytic, in a degree proportione*! to the violence of the injury. The patient lies in great pain, and unable to raise himself; if you desire him to draw his thighs towards his abdomen, he does so with groat difficulty. A case of this kind was brought into the other hospital; he was cupped repeatedly in the loins, and afterwards had a blister applied, which was kept open by ungt. sabinre ; his bowels kept open by calomel and other purgatives, and a stimulating liniment rubbed daily on the lower extremities. In six weeks the motion and sc.i,at;on of his b gs hail aimojt returned, and ho