527 ON IRRITABLE BLADDER. an opportunity of seeing the nature of the disease, and heie is another of the same description ; this specimen was taken from a man who lived in the neighbourhood of the hospitals, A. catheter was passed into the bladder of this man, in consequence of re- tention of urine. For nearly the whole of the day on which the instrument was introduced, he expelled nothing but blood j other attacks succeeding this, at length he died. The preparation now b.fore you was taken from his bladder. I am not aware of any plan of treatment that is likely to be successful for the re- moval of this disease; it appears to be entirely out of our reach. LECTURE LIX. The first subject of which I shall speak, is IitniTani,E BLADDEn. During the latter stages of gonorrhoea, it often happens that the patient is annoyed by a frequent desire to void his urine ; this Symptom at length becomes so urgent, that tlie inclination to empty the bladder occurs as often as every ten minutes or quar- ter of an hour. The pain that the patient feels is in exact pro- portion to the quantity of urine contained in the bladder, the greater the quantity, the more severe will be the pain. Some- times in this complaint the urine will be mixed with blood ; this appearance is calculated to deceive you, and excite a suspicion of the existence of stone, and induce you to pass a sound for the purpose of satisfying your doubts : now in this disease the iutio- dnction of an instrument into the bladder is highly improper, as It would produce additional irritation. The mode by which you can distinguish irritable bladder from stone, is this ; attend to the *tate of the blad ler when the patient is in pain, and when he en- joys a repose. If the case be one of irritable bladder, there will be no pain after the expulsion of the urine ; on the other hand, if the case be stone, after the expulsion of the water then pain will be felt. By attending to this you may readily distinguish one complaint from the otlier. In irritable bladder, therefore, the pain is felt when the bladder is full ; in case of calculus, the pain tortures when nothing but the stone remains. .Sometimes the disease goes on to produce ulceration of the bladder; the unne will then be mixed with blood ; there will likewise be a tfUebarge of btoofly mucus, and the inclination to void the urine