604 SCROFULOUS DISEASES OF JOINTS. lastly, the bones themselves will now and then be in a state o. ulceration ; sometimes there are earthy deposits on them ; but they are more frequently lessened in size. With respect to the nature of the complaint, I believe that it is the result of exercise which has produced inflammation of the internal linings of the joints, and frequently of the synovial membrane. The action of the joint leads to the inflammation; for you find that a child, after walking, taken, as it frequently is, to a distance from its place of residence, and the parent forgetting that it has to make two or three steps to her one, and its attention being kept up by the prospect of amusement, I say, that, in these cases, you will find the child on the following day complaining of pain in the joints. A medical man is consulted, who finds swelling and signs of inflammation of the joint; inflammation of the synovial membrane comes on, which leads to the absorption of the carti- lages, and sometimes bone: for my own part, I believe it is the internal lining of joints which is originally affected. Mr. Brodie (who I am proud to call my friend) has written a work on diseases of the joints, which cannot be too carefully perused by those who wish to become acquainted with these affections ; and he is more disposed than I am to think, that the disease commences in the cartilages. I am of opinion that the synovial membrane is at first attacked, and then that the com- plaint gradually extends to the other parts. It, however, matters little, for the same treatment is to be pursued whether the disease originates in the cartilage or the internal lining of the joint. Treatment of Scrofulous Affections of the Joints.—The treatment required in these complaints is as follows:—The great object is to preserve the limb in a state of rest; this is so obviously necessary for an inflamed part, that every man will see the reasons for attending to it. If I had inflammation of the hand, should I expect that inflammation would cease unless I kept my limb quiet, and in a state of rest? And is it not equally absurd to imagine that an inflammation of the joint will be subdued unless that joint be kept in a state of perfect rest? I will not say that the body should always be kept at rest, but only the limb affected. This may be often secured, so that it shall remain quiet, although the body is in exercise. Next in importance to rest is the reducing the heat of the part. Evaporating lotions of water and spirits of wine, or the liquor plumbi superacetatis dilutus, with spirits of wine and water, should bo employed.