53 ON THE OPERATION OF TREPHINING. to this treatment, you purge, produce perspiration, and apply blisters to the head. 1 have seen poultices, containing some stimulating application, of considerable use. It will now and then happen that trephining will be required; and I will tell you the cases in which it will. 1. Where there is extravasation of blood between the dura mater and skull. 2. In single fractures, with depression and symptoms of com- pression continuing after depletion. 3. In compound fractures, with depression, unaccompanied with symptoms of compression. v 4. It is required sometimes that an opening should be made in the cranium, where there is matter between the dura mater and skull. Now it generally happens in these last cases, where there is matter between the dura mater and skull, that there is fracture, and this is an indication that some injury has been‘ done to the • brain, when it is also followed by rigors and other symptoms ; still it will be right, in some cases where there is no fracture, and the other symptoms, rigors, &c., are present, to penetrate the bone, to see whether matter be lodged between it and the dura mater ■, and this is the only case in which it is proper; O.v THE Operation op Trephining. The operation of trephining used to be one of the most com-' plicated kind, requiring several instruments, the learning of which was within itself quite a study; it is now quite simple, and few instruments only are wanted, which can very easily be put into a small case. Let us go over the instruments formerly used in this operation : but really, gentlemen, they were so numerous, I don’t know whether I can count them. They used then a scalpel, rougee, pin, perforator, crown, brush, elevator, lenticular, and a pair of forceps; now you may see (holding a case in his hand), these three instruments will be quite sufficient; a knife, with a double edge, in order to scrape off the pericranium, an elevator, and a trephine having a crown, and a pin which will allow of being easily moved. Now, gentlemen, I will tell you in what parts the trephine should not be applied. First, you should never trephine in the line that extends from just above the nose along the top of the head to the tuberosity of the occiput; over the frontal sinuses it is obviously improper j and at the summit of the head you will meet the sagittal