inu !■ IIAU 1 U U1*.S 1)1' l ilt VKKTEBKiK. cessarily exist as to the exact nature of the injury; for morbid anatomy can alone teach you the real nature of disea.se. When fracture with displacement occurs in the dorsal vertebra, the pa- tient generally lives a much shorter time ; though even in this case I have known a person live nine months. A person of the city, named W., riding on Epsom Downs, at full speed, came to a road which led to a chalk or gravel pit, and finding that he could not stop his horse, he put spurs to him to endeavour to clear the pit. He succeeded in doing this, but the horse had in conse- quence of the effort, fell on the opposite side, rolled over him, and broke his dorsal vertebra. Paralysis of the lower extremi- ties followed, but this gentleman lived four or five months after the injury. When fracture with displacement occurs between the fourth and seventh cervical vertebra ; the patient generally lives from four to five days. I have known a person die as early as forty-eight hours after the injury. If the injury occur between the second and third, or between the third and fourth cervical vertebra, the person dies on the instant. Those who have attended in the dissecting room can readily ex- plain how this happens, and would perhaps, feel themselves in- sulted if I were to explain it to them. Those who have dissected less will excuse me for saying that instant death ensues in this case, because the injury occurs above the origin of the phrenic nerve, which is the only agent in supporting respiration after pres- sure on the spinal marrow has occurred. The function of respira- tion, after pressure on the spinal marrow, is supported by the diaphragm only, and when the fracture with displacement occurs above the origin of the phrenic nerve, the diaphragm loses its power, and instant dissolution is the result. But it sometimes happens that the cervical vertebra: are broken without displacement. When this occurs, some curious cir- cumstances take place. At the time I lived with Mr. Cline, the following case occurred : A girl received a severe blow on the neck, after which it was found, that whenever she attempted to look at any thing placed above her head, she was under the necessity of putting her hand behind it, and gradually elevating it to the object. When she wanted to look at any thing beneath her head, she put her hands under her chin, and low- ered her head to the object. If any other child in play ran against her and shook her body, the concussion produced une^ sensations, and she would run to a table, or any place on which