ON PARACENTESIS ABDOMINIS. 418 struinents with me at present, but I will shew you the mode of performing it in the next lecture. The thickness of the cyst in encysted dropsy is sometimes so great as to render it necessary to use a longer trocar than usual. A case of this kind occurred to me, in which, after having penetrated the abdomen, as I thought, on withdrawing the trocar no water followed. I thought at first that I myself had met with a case of dry tapping, but on employing a trocar considerably longer than the former, about three inches and a half in length, the water followed im- mediately. The operation of paracentesis used to be performed midway between the umbilicus and the spinous process of the ilium, but this practice has been abandoned for a number of years ; the sur- geon who first made the alteration was ]\Ir. Cline, senior. He was performing the operation for paracentesis in this hospital du- ring the time I was an apprentice ; when he had introduced the trocar and canula at this part, he found that a quantity of blood, which appeared to be arterial, issued with the first water. The water became more and more discoloured, and towards the con- clusion of the operation little else but arterial blood flowed. IMr. Cline shut up the wound without concluding the operation, in the hope that pressure on the abdomen would put a stop to the bleeding, but the man became extremely faint, and died in a few hours after the operation. On examining the body after death, it was found that the trocar had passed through the epigastric arte- ry, that artery being exposed, in consequence of the rectus being thrown very much on one side in dropsy by the pressure of the abdominal muscles. It occurred to Mr. Cline that many persons had died of hemorrhage after the operation for paracentesis, and Dr. Carmichael Smith made at that time a calculation of the number of cases of this kind which had proved fatal. Mr. Cline, consequently, ever after, in his lectures, advised the opening to be made an inch below the umbilicus, where there is no vessel of any size, and no danger in performing the operation. It is right that the bladder should be emptied before the operation ; you should direct the patient to make water, or if there should be any difficulty, draw it off by a catheter. Mr. Cline was called to a lady for a complaint which was thought to be dropsy of the ab- domen, and which he at first conceived to be so himself. On -examination, however, he observed that the upper part of the abdomen was more free from fluctuation than the lower, and it