560 ON SYPHII,ITIC BUBO. the mercury should be suspended when the mouth becomes af- fected; it is by secretion that the benign influence of mercury is exercised. It sometimes happens that the bubo attains considerable mag- nitude. When this is the case you must give up the use of mer- cury : never continue it when the bubo is large; it will only hurry it into a suppurative process ; therefore, suspend the use of mercury, and endeavour to lessen the size of the swelling and in- flammation by lotions, leeches, and acting on the bowels, in order to promote the secretions, for this should be your grand object in all these cases : take care, at the same time, to give that kind of nourishment which will best support the system, without produc- ing an undue excitement. When the gland becomes of consi- derable size, it is usually the result of debility, and is very apt to become chronic ; you should by all means discontinue the mer- cury, apply leeches, and you may gently stimulate the gland, so as to promote absorption ; for this purpose the application of mu- riate of ammonia will be of use, at the same time giving purga- tive medicines. But in this enlarged state of the gland, although it begins in syphilis, mercury greatly debilitates the constitution. When suppuration has commenced, and the matter can be felt fluctuating, it is quite right to make an opening to let it out. The opening should be small, and ought to be made as soon as any pus can be felt, for absorption will begin, and the size of the gland will soon be diminished ; therefore, make an opening to evacuate the matter as early as you can detect fluctuation. My own opinion is, that when the suppurative process has commenced, the best plan is to open the swelling, which I always do by punc- turing it vvilh a lancet whenever the matter is formed ; it is of no use to let it accumulate, for absorption of the surrounding parts will take place, and a large sore be formed. If the gland be opened as early as you can detect fluctuation, the surrounding swelling will be lessened, the inflammation diminished, absorp- tion rapidly produced, and then you can return to the mercury for effecting the cure. It sometimes happens that the bubo is exceedingly irritable: whenever you find it so under the use of mercury, immediately discontinue its use, for the more mercury you give, the worse the swelling becomes; abandon the mercury, and have recourse to other means; it is right in these cases to give opium, and the com- pound decoction of sarsaparilla; that is the plan you will find