59 oy ULCERATlOy. ulceration is inflammation united with pressure. If the inflani- mation be considerable, and the pressure but slight, ulceration will be produced; and if the pressure be very considerable, and the inflammation but slight, still there will be ulceration. As a proof, both that pressure is the cause of ulceration, and that ulceration is not necessarily accompanied with the formation of matter, I will give you the example of aneurism. Here is a specimen on the table of a large aneurism of the aorta, just above the heart, into which you may pass your hand in the hole produced by the ulceration of part of the ribs and sternum ; those parts having been absorbed by the pressure of the aneuris- mal sac, producing an increased action of the absorbent vessels. Here the pressure is exceedingly great; but the degree of inflam- mation is very slight. In the same manner we see an aneurism of the aorta on the fore part of the spine, producing absorption of the vertebras, by the pressure of the aneurismal bag, though no matter is effused, the ulceration being produced by the pres- sure eirisingfrom slight inflammation, unaccompanied by any se- cretion of matter. From these facts, we are led to conclude that the formation of matter is not necessary to the ulcerative process ; and that it only happens on exposed surfaces of the body, where it is necessary for the protection of sores, by covering the granu- lations. The constitutional symptoms of ulceration are slight. In general, a degree of fever attends it, but it is very slight. The pulse is under 100, and at the same time small; we do not find any considerable excitement of the constitution, and the fever is rather of the hectic or chronic kind, than sudden or violent in its attack. It continues sometimes for several days. The pain attending ulceration is not very considerable 3 if you ask the patient, he will tell you that it is of a gnawing kind, as if there were insects about the part. We may conclude, there- fore, that the irritation attending ulceration is but slight and the pain not comiderable. With respect to the appearance of the ulcerated part, it looks as if it were worm-eaten ; the surface is rough, and very irregular. Sometimes a very considerable portion of the body is removed by ulceration. Here is an example of an ulcerated tibia on the table. See to what an extent ulceration has removed not only the cancellated structure of the bone, but the shell in which that structure is contained. Here is another example