640 DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. Mr. Fox, the late dentist, has used a lever of wood, about a foot long; he placed the end of it on the molar tooth on one side, then supported the outer part of the piece of wood with one hand, and depressed the end on the tooth with the other, and with the force thus used, he succeeded in reducing the jaw; he then did the same on the other side, and thus completely replaced the bone. This mode is best adapted, I think, for the cases in partial dislocation; but I generally prefer the corks, the recumbent posture, and the elevation of the chin. An imperfect dislocation of the jaw sometimes happens from a relaxation of the ligaments, something in the same way as that in which the thigh bone is thrown from the semilunar cartilages. The jaw appears to quit the interarticular cartilage of the tem- poral cavity, slips before its edge, and fixes the jaw, the mouth being at the same time slightly opened. The natural efforts generally restore the situation of the parts, but I have seen it continue a length of time ; yet the motion of the jaw, and the power of closing the mouth, have returned. You must, in your attempt to return the jaw, press directly downwards; by which you separate the jaw from the temporal hone, and allow the cartilage to replace itself on the extremity of the condyloid pro- cess. A snapping is sometimes heard when the bone is returned to its socket. Young women are generally the subjects of this complaint, and I have frequency found the ammonia and steel, with the shower-bath, and a blister before the ear, remove the disposition to the re-appearance of the accident. These means accomplish this, of course, by giving a general tone to the system, and also to the relaxed parts. When the jaw has been once dislocated, it is easily displaced again from a slight cause, and therefore the motions of it should be limited; this will be best done by making a hole in the middle ol a broad tape, to re- ceive the chin, and split the ends into two parts, bring one over the top of the head, and the other over the occiput, and the tendency to subsequent luxation will be prevented. I shall now proceed to speak of Dislocations of the Hip-Joint. It perhaps may cause no little astonishment in some of you, when I say, that there was a period in the history of surgery, and that not very remote, in which the dislocation of the thigh bone was considered an impossibility; but, gentlemen, such if the general advancement of the science, and such are now the opportunities of acquiring information, and such tlie improve-