475 ON POISONS. drop on the floor in a fit: shortly afterwards he would get up and appear as well as ever. I cut down upon the radial nerve by the side of the flexor carpi radialis longus tendon, exposed about an inch, and cut out five-eighths of it. After this the pain entirely left him, and he returned to Watford, where he remained, completely cured. Gentlemen, I am very sorry for having detained you so long (Applauie.) LECTURE LIII. On Poisons. Poisons are those substances which, in small quantities, produce deleterious effects on the human body. Though this is considered the best definition of poisons, yet there is no substance considered as poisonous, which in very small doses is not capable of pro- ducing a beneficial effect. Several of the poisons, indeed, in minute and well regulated doses, produce the best possible effects —arsenic is an example of this. Poisons are derived from five sources, viz.: there are those from the animal and vegetable kingdom—there are the mineral and chemical poisons—and another, furnished by man himself, is called morbid poison. You will find such a difference with regard to the eflTects of morbid poisons, when compared with the others, that you will speedily relinquish any opinion you might have formed respect- ing a supposed reciprocity of action between them. In tracing the operations of poisons, we find some of them affect the vascular system, others the nervous, while many poisons affect both the nervous and vascular systems at the same time. In looking at poisons from many animals, for example, we find the first action in the arterial system, while the influence of others evidently begins in the nerves. The poison communi- cated by the viper and rattle-snake attacks the arterial system first; that from the bite of a rabid animal, influences the ner- vous system first ; but ultimately in these cases both become affected: thus, then, some poisons first affect the nervous sys. tern, others the arterial, and others both. With regard to the vegetable poisons — all of these act on the nervaus system : the persons who have been destroyed by