ON PUSTULES. 2Q1 be restored to the same state of transparency as before the attack. Care must be taken that in the treatment no undue degree of stimulus be employed ; if there should be inflam- mation it will be increased, and the complaint be as bad or worse than ever^ A collyrium that may be used, is oue with the sulphate of zinc, containing about a grain to an ounce of water, gradually increasing it in strength. One which has been recommended, is that with the corrosive sublimate, with a grain to an ounce of water. Calomel or levigated sugar has been used in many cases with good effects. This is quite an old woman’s remedy, and has been recommended very indiscriminately. Unscientific persons—those who are not acquainted with the nature of the disease in which it is useful—seeing it do good in one complaint, think it will in all others of a similar appearance, though essentially different in their character, and therefore employ it in cases where it does harm, using it alike in a cicatrix from ulceration as in nebula arising from a deposit of lymph. In the one, if it be employed, loss of substance will be the result—inflammation will be excited, and fresh ulcers will form. In the other, that is, in nebula, it will often be of ser- vice, care being taken not to produce an over degree of stimulus in the part. Pustules. Pustules are generally seated at the junction of the transpa- rent with the opaque cornea; but they may sometimes occur in the cornea itself, or the conjunctiva covering it or the ball. They are seated in different parts. The appearance.s that they present at first are red or yellowish spots arising from a deposit of lymph in those parts, and are slightly elevated. There is con- siderable turgescence of the vessels around them. If they occur on the cornea, it will be nebulous and opaque ; the vessels round the cornea will be seen distended, carrying red blood and having a radiated disposition. If the lymph be not removed by absorp- tion, the pustules break, matter escapes, and ulcers form in their place. Sometimes there is only one of these ulcers, frequently two, one at each side of the cornea, just at the junction of the transparent with the opaque cornea, and occasionally the cornea is even encircled by them. Although the inflammation accom- panying the formation of pustules is not acute, yet it frequently happeas that there will be more or less pain on moving the eye, intolerance of light, and effusion of tears. These ulcers are ditti. k