f ADHESIVE IXFLAMMATION—APPEARANCES. 47 thrown out, the internal surface of the cavity generally becomes permanently united, and thus a radical cure is effected. The treatment of a stump after amputation will best illustrate this subject. In amputating a limb, your object is first to pre- serve sufficient integuments, and not muscles j for if muscular fi- bres are preserved with the integuments they will contract, and retraction of the skin covering the stump will -be the result. When the limb has been removed, you will apply ligatures to the bleeding vessels: now, I would not advise you to tie every small vessel; ligatures on the principal vessels are quite suffi- cient, and the fewer applied the better ; for, though it is desirable to prevent disturbance of the limb afterwards, yet, by waiting a short time after the operation, the smaller arteries will generally stop. The ligatures themselves should be small, and consist of fine silk, for nothing is so bad in operations as the application of coarse ligatures, excepting, perhaps, in cases where ossification of the arteries has taken place, when it would be justifiable; with this exception only, it is the worst possible surgery to ap- ply thick ligatures to arteries, and if a surgeon were to do it he would understand nothing of his profession; the thinner the li- gatures are, then, the better. Now there are two reasons why thin ligatures are preferable— 1st, because they are less liable to escape ; 2d, they divide the internal coats of the arteries more effectually. When you use a very fine ligature the internal coats will be completely divided, and the external will remain entire. My friend. Dr. Jones, has published an excellent work on the natural means by which ar- teries unite in cases where ligatures are applied; and first, he states the fact of the internal eoats of the artery being divided by the application of fine ligatures. Thick ligatures also prevent the wounds from healing so rapidly as thin ones. After the ves- sels have been secured, the sponge should be applied, and all coagula of blood removed, as this is very essential to the union of the part; blood is not the means, but the prevention, of union in such cases; for, unless it be taken away, the adhesive inflam- mation will not go on. There is one instance in which blood fa- vours the process of adhesion, and that is, in the application of a ligature on an artery; with this exception only, the opinion of bloo.1 favouring the process of adhesion ij to b« banished from »