173 ON THE CURE OF ANEURISM. (oin.tiil hj the cellular membrane, instead of the usual mode. A pointed body introduced into an artery will produce all the ap- pearances of aneurism, and require the same treatment. In what- ever way, in short, aneurism is produced, the surgical treatment of it will be the same. A curious circumstance may be observed in dissecting an aneurism, after having turned back the aneuris- mal sac. You would suppose that when you had made an inci- sion in the parts, you would immediately find the cavity in which the blood is contained ; but this is not the case. On the inner side of the aneurismal sac a wall of adhesive matter is deposited in layers so as to enclose the blood as completely as the aneuris- mal sac itself. Here is a preparation in which the aneurismal sac has been taken away, and yet you find a bag remaining en- tirely formed of layers of adhesive matter on the outer side of the aneurism. The process by which nature throws up one layer of adhesive matter after another, until a complete bag is produced, is beautifully illustrated in this preparation. You may distinguish aneurism from other diseases by the fol- lowing marks : —If the aneurism be recent by pressing your fin- ger on the artery which leads to the aneurism, you will empty the aneurismal bag ; but if the aneurism be of longer duration, and the pplsation be but slight, place yourself by the side of the patient, observe carefully the size of the swelling, and by pressing your finger on the artery above, you will see the aneu- rism sink down as you make the pressure, though the sac will not entirely empty itself; and upon raising your hand sud- denly, j'ou will observe a jet of blood rush into the aneuris- mal sac, and raise it to its former height. In this manner an aneurism may be easily distinguished from another tu- mour deriving its pulsation from an artery: in the former case the pnlsatioa will be felt over every part of the tumour, in the latter there will be no pulsation except in the direc- tion of the artery. I have hurried over some parts of this -evening’s lecture, as it is my intention to show you the opera- tion for popliteal aneurism, having a subject which will an- swer the purpose extremely well. I shall postpone, therefore, some remarks which I have to make upon the medical treat- rr.ent of aneurism, and proceed at once to speak of the surgical ooeration for its cure. On the Cubf. of AsEuniSMs. Aneurisms sometimes undergo a spontaneous cure. 1 hir. is