ON ULCERS. 99 part constaRtly, either with the spirit wash or cold water, and in till probability 3'ou will soon get rid of the disease altogether. Pregnancy is a frequent cause of varicose veins ; so also is obesity. It was formerly the practice, when the veins were in a vari- cose state, to tie and divide them. This plan is still pursued by manj' surgeons ; but it is one, gentlemen, that I have deprecated in my lectures in this theatre for the last eight or nine years : it is bad treatment, very injudicious, and fraught with great dan- ger ; therefore, let me exhort you never to sanction it. I have seen this operation prove fatal in two instances in these hospitals; therefore I was induced to say that it did not succeed, and have for years spoken against it. A gentleman of Nottingham informed me, that he had tied the vena saphena, for a varicose state of tlie veins of the leg in a young farmer, in other respects healthy, and the operation proved fatal. The same lamentable catastrophe oc- curred to a most respectable practitioner at Brentford; and both these gentlemen told me, that they would not again perform the operation for the world. If I were to tell you all the cases in which I have known it terminate fatally, I should recount at least a dozen. Another overwhelming objection to the operation is, that when it does not prove fatal, its ultimate effects are perfectly nugatory. If I were asked which of the following operations I would rather have performed upon myself, viz., the saphena ma- jor vein, or the femoral artery tied, I certainly should choose the latter. When an artery is tied, the inflammation is above the ligature, but in a vein it is below ; in this Case the vessel be- comes terribly distended, the inflammation uncommonly severe, and either extensive suppuration, mortification, or death the result. Mr. Travers has written an admirable essay on this subject, which well deserves your attentive perusal. Ulcers are sometimes occurring in the cellular membrane, forming what we call chronic carbuncles. When the constitution is impaired, from whatever cause, it frequently happeas that small swellings will form under the skin. At first they are red ; then turn purple ; and ultimately slough. The ulcerative process ls .slow in those cases. A white substance will soon be perceived at the bottom of the sore, and as soon as this comes away, healthy granulations will rapidly form, and II 2