ON ERYSIPELAS. 121 small ones on the head or neck will often destroy life ; indeed, I never saw a patient who recovered from carbuncle upon the head ; in these cases there is effusion between the tunica arachnoides and pia mater. The inflammation which attends fistula in ano will sometimes destroy the cellular membrane of the neighbour- ing parts, thereby occasioning an enormous quantity of the nates to slough, and yet the patient shall do well. Treatment.—The peculiar treatment of carbuncle consists in making upon the surface of the swelling, at an early period of the disease, a large crucial incision, for the purpose of affording the deadened parts an opportunity of escaping ; then apply the port wine poultice, and give the patient such stimullints as will tend to increase the vigour of his constitution, and here we shall again find opium and ammonia our sheet anchors. Of Erysipelas. Inflammation of the skin is generally extensive. Why 1 In consequence of the surface being unbroken. Thus, when the pleura or peritoneum is attacked by inflammation, the whole of these membranes usually become affected by it; and also when erysipelatous inflammation invades the skin, it is not uncommon to see it run from one part to another, till half the body is covered by it. Sometimes it is ushered in by fever, and sometimes not. Certain constitutions are sooner affected by it than others, and often its efiects appear to be entirely local. But unquestionably it affects the constitution more frequently than otherwise. Its characteristic appearances are, a florid skyi, with vesicles contain- ing a secretion of an amber colour under the raised cuticle. It is seldom that the skin suppurates in these cases; the cellular membrane, however occasionally does. It is very common for erysipelatous inflammation to terminate in gangrene. You must not consider all cases of inflamed skin erysipelas. I have often seen cases treated as such, where it would have been right to de- plete. The best characteristic sign is its vesicular appearance • and this constitutes a specific difference between it and common inflammation. The head seems to be more commonly affected by it than any other part; it often succeeds the most trifling injury of the scalp ; and, like carbuncle, when it occurs in this situation, generally destroys life. I had the misfortune to lose a lady of considerable conser(uence from its effects, where it came on after the removal of a small encysted tumour from the forehead. It made its ap-