ON EXTRACTION OF THE CATARACT, 313 Many untoward circumstances, however, frequently interfere with the success of this operation. In the first place the section of the cornea may be too small; in which case you will either be unable to dislodge the cataract, or so mucli force will be re- quired for that purpose as is likely to produce serious inflamma- tion, and such a degree of disorganization as will destroy vision. The section through the cornea should be about nine-sixteenths of a line, or one-sixteenth more than half a line from its junction with the sclerotica ; the point of the instrument is introduced a little below the transverse diameter of the eye, on one side, and should come out a little above it on the other. If you find, when you have completed the section of the cornea, that the opening is not sufficiently large, do not hesitate to use the scissors, in order to make it large enough to admit the passage of thd cataract. The second untoward circumstance to which I shall advert is the pre- mature escape of the aqueous humour, either from the unsteadi- ness of the operator or from some defect in the knife. On the escape of the aqueous humour, the iris loses its support, and be- comes prolapsed. When this happens, the way of preventing any mischief will be, not to continue the incision, but to rub the cornea with the point of your finger, by which the prolapsed iris will be stimulated to contract; and on this being removed out of the way, you may complete the incision. This is the expedient recommended by Wenzel and Ware, and it answers the purpose extremely well. The third unfortunate circumstance which sometimes occurs is the loss of a portion of the vitreous humour, arising from some undue pressure on the globe of the eye by the operator or assistant, or from some spasm of the muscles of the eye, though the last cause seldom happens. Another way in which this accident sometimes occurs, is when the needle is in- judiciously used too near the circumference of the lens, and the capsule of the vitreous humour is torn through ; so that when you make pressure on the globe, instead of the cataract coming forward, a large portion of vitreous humour is protruded. In this case you should not attempt to force out the cataract; but you should endeavour to entangle it as mueh as possible, so as to pre- vent the escape of the vitreous humour. I’he loss of the vitreous humour is sometimes occasioned by the use of the curette, in consequence of the instrument passing through the back layer of the capsule. The curette should never be u.sed when tlie pupil U at all obscured; the field of the pupil should be perfectly dis-