86 ON GRANUI.ATION. original skin. We may conclude, therefore, that the skin which is reproduced is true skin ; that the cuticle is very quickly repro- duced, and the rete niucosum after a short period. The cellular membrane is also reproduced, though it has at first the appear- ance of a solid fibrous mass, which requires some time before it is drawn into the reticular texture, similar to the original mem- brane, Tendons are very easily reproduced. If the tendo achil- lis be divided in an animal, it will be reproduced in about a fort- night or three weeks ; but it will be somewhat larger than the ori- ginal tendon. The same thing takes place in the human subject; as you may see from a specimen in our museum of a tendo achil- lis which had been reproduced, and which is larger than the ori- ginal tendon. Every body knows that bones are reproduced ; not only the shell of the bone, but the cancellated structure j not only the salt or phosphate of lime, but the cartilaginous substance in which it is deposited. Nerves are also reproduced, but there is some little doubt whether they assist at all in the restoration of sensation by anastomois. Dr. Haighton made an ingenious expe- riment with respect to the union of nerves. He divided the par vagum, or eighth pair of nerves, in a dog, on one side, and then let the animal live for some time : he then divided the par vagum on the opposite side, and after suffering both nerves to unite, he then divided them at the same moment, when the animal died. In tic doloreui, after the operation of dividing the nerve, even when the sensibility of the part to which the nerve was distributed is not entirely restored, and although numbness still remains in the cheek, the painful sensation usually returns. Case.—An old gentleman, from Bury, in Suffolk, had under- gone the operation of the division of the nerve for tic dolonreux several times. When he came last to me, there was still a little numbness remaining in the lip, yet the pain of the tic dolonreu-x was as great as ever. I divided the nerve, but the operation did not afford him the same relief as before. He came again some months after, and wished the nerve to be again divided. The pain in the part had returned to its former degree, although the numb- ness of the lip was much greater than before. The.parts of the body which are not produced, are—first,mus- cles, in the case of a man who had a scar on the fore-arm, which appeared to have long existed, I found that, instead, of muscular fibre under it, a tendinous structure had formed. A muscle, when divided, unites by tendon and not by muscle. Secondly, the car-