14 TREATMENT OF IRRITATION. LECTURE II. Treatment of Irritation. The treatment of irritation being much the same as that required in inflammation, I shall now give but a short description of it. When constitutional irritation arises from a local cause, the remedies must be chiefly directed to the removal of that cause, or to lessen its effects on the constitution ; but on the contrary, when local disease is either promoted or aggravated by constitu- tional derangement, then your remedy must be directed to the disorder of the system; and as that improves, so will the local affections disappear. Case.—A short time since, a case of compound fracture was brought into Guy’s Hospital. For the first five days there was no alteration ; after a time, however, the man’s constitution suf- fered very considerably; a probe was passed into the wound, and a loose portion of bone was found pressing against the tibialis anticus; the part was dilated by a scalpel; the detached bone extracted ; the constitution began to recover its fonuer vigour, the patient’s health very rapidly improved, and he is now dis- charged cured. A case of simple fracture of the superior portion of the tibia was admitted into .St. Thomas’s Hospital, which was followed by violent irritation of the whole system. The whole limb became inflamed, and matter formed at the seat of the fracture. After a short time it was thought projier to amputate the limb, wlien, on examining it afterwards, small pieces of bone were found, which kept up the irritation. The patient-soon recovered from tlie operation. Constitutional irritation must not be too suddenly subdued nor destroyed, as a certain degree of irritation shows that nature is endeavouring to accomplish the restorative process; keep it within bounds, carefully watch its progress, and, if necessary, check its violence, but do not entirely destroy it. There are two means of reducing irritation. First, by restoring to the different organs their various secre- tions, by which the outlets become openech, and fever lessened. A man who has his skin hot and dry, and his body altogether hot, will feel well and be relieved, if you can produce on the surface a free perspiration. To produce the secretions from the intestinal canal, you must give aperients; but when the irritation