98 ON ULCERS The next ulcers that I shall describe are those which arise from varicose veins, and here I shall detain you for a few moments, as the subject is one of some importance. The veins in different parts of the body often become varicose, but those of the lower extremities by far the most frequently so. This condition of the vessels may arise from a variety of causes; but the more immediate one appears to be either a thickening of the valves, so that they are incapable of approximating, or a rupture of the valves : in either case the effects will be the same—the blood pressing in one uninterrupted column—the veins become distended and serpentine, and the valves widely separated from each other—their arteries, by their powerful at- tempts to return the blood to the part, soon excites inflammation ; and ulceration quickly supervenes. What are the common effects produced here by the first desquamation of the cuticle 1 Why the whole surface covering the diseased veins is formed into a crust, under which a quantity of serum is secreted. The first thing to be attended to in these cases is the recumbent pos- ture : in fact this position is indispensable ; you can do nothing without it. Lint wetted by the mercurial wash should be laid on the ulcers—oiled silk over these, and then the limb should be well and regularly bandaged, beginning at the foot. The bandage allows the valves to recover their lost action, and consequently will be found to be highly useful. Another great benefit is derived in these cases from opening the veins ; indeed, they are so distended, that they may more properly be termed lakes than rivulets. If you do not open the vessels, you will find con- siderable difficulty in the progress of cure. The best plan that you can adopt is to puncture them by means of a lancet, twice m the course of every week as long as you think they require it; let the bandage be afterwards applied, and the parts kept wet by means of evaporating lotion. No danger whatever attends the opening of these veins, and very great relief will be afforded by it. If the punctures, however, at any time should not unite, but fret into ulcers, you must apply to them the liq. calcis and calomel. It often happens that persons, who, for any length of time have had the veins of their lower extremities in a varicose state, will find at night a great quantity of blood in their shoes; the crust before alluded to, coming off, is the cause of the hemorrhage. Upon being called to a patient so situated, you put him in the recumbent posture, apply a bandage, wet the