297 ON STAPHYLOMA. the course of two or three days falls off, and the symptoms of the disease return as before ; the caustic is again to be applied, and to be repeated a third time, if necessary. The ulcer by this means, loses its ash-coloured appearance, the edges become re- gular and even, and it rapidly heals. When ulcers of the cornea are attended by acute inflammation, it will be necessary to em- ploy bleeding by leeches, before the use of astringents, at the same time to keep the bowels regular by mild aperients. During the process of the ulcers, it will be necessary to watch them very closely, and examine them frequently, but in doing it great caution must be used lest the eye-lids become everted. When the ulcers heal, it is by cicatrization, as in any other part of the body, and afterwards specks are left which are nothing more than rounded spots of coagulable lymph, and are denominated leucoma or albugo ; and in these cases the rays of light are not prevented entering the eye, except when the spots are on the axis of vision, and then they are interrupted. The next disease to which the cornea is subject is Staphyloma. In this disease the cornea becomes opaque, considerably ele- vated, and altered in texture. The eye-lids are prevented from being closed ; there is perpetual irritation kept up by the fric- tion of the palpebrae on the ball. This disease frequently comes on after small-pox, and is one of the sequel® belonging to that formidable complaint. By the separation of the lids extraneous bodies often enter the eye ; irritation is produced by the friction of the lids and eye-lashes—and thus a considerable degree of in- convenience is produced to the patient, and the eye kept in a state of chropic ophthalmy ; and the sound eye becomes sympa- thetically affected. In this disease the iris often protrudes; the vitreous humour is altered in texture ; and the crystalline lens is projected for- wards. In this complaint nothing can be done for the restora- tion of sight; and the only plan of treatment will be to remove the staphylomatous part, so as to return the eye within the orbit, and permit the use of an artificial eye. The operation is ex- ceedingly simple; the surgeon first passes a needle with a liga- ture through the staphylomatous part, in order to steady the eye, and then with the other hand takes the cornea kmfe, and removes as much of the projecting part as may be necessary; tire opcratifTD gives little pain; it generally happens that the