DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. 642 nution of motion, and a flattening of that side by the altered situation of the trochanter major. This accident may be distinguished from fracture of the neck of the thigh bone, within the capsular ligament, with which it is inost likely to be confounded, by symptoms which are sufficiently distinct to a person who is commonly attentive. In the fracture of the neck, the knee and foot are turned outwards, the tro- chanter is drawn upwards and backwards, resting on the dorsum ilii; you may bend the thigh towards the abdomen, although it gives some pain. But one of the principal marks of the accident is, that although the limb may be shortened one or two inches, according to the duration of the accident, yet, by extension, you ni^ restore the natural length of the limb, but the limb is again shortened immediately on your removing the extending force. If, when you have drawn down the bone, you rotate it, you can distinctly feel a crepitus, but this ceases to be felt when the limb is allowed to be again shortened. Fractures of the neck within the capsular ligament occur but rarely, except in advanced periods of life, and are produced by slight causes; this is owing to the interstitial absorption which this part of the bone under- goes in age Thus, then, you see that the increased mobility of the partk, the easy extension of the limb, and its then producing a crepiius, will readily distinguish the one accident from the other. No man who possesses a good knowledge of anatomy, or who has paid attention to his profession, could ever confound dislocations arising from violence, with diseases of the hip-joint. The gradual progress of the symptoms, the pain in the knee, the apparent elongation at lirst, and the real shortening afterwards, the power of motion remaining, yet that motion producing pain, especially under the extremes of rotation, are marks of difference wiiich must strike the most carelesss observer. The consequences of a disease of this kind, when it has existed a great length of time, are such a change in the situation of the parts, from ulceration of the ligaments, head of the bone, and acetabulum, as to make the limb appear like a dislocation. But the history of the case at once points out its nature. The dislocation on the dorsum ilii is produced by the patient falling when the knee and foot are turned inwards, or by a blow being received while the limb is in that position. The following plan is to be adopted in attempting to reduce this dislocation. Bleed the patient to twelve or twenty ounces, or more, if he be a 5