4T0 0'S POISONS woman was at last unable to buy her opium, and she became pauper in the parish in which she resided. It is a habit which grows upon persons excessively, and ought never to be indulged. Opium applied externally, will produce poisonous effects ; not so soon, indeed, as when it is administered internally, but with equal certainty. If you apply opium over an extensive surface of sore, it will produce obstinate costiveness, and violent pain in the bead, a furred brown tongue, and a high degp’ee of fever. I remembet a man in the other hospital, who laboured under these symptoms, in consequence of having opium applied over an extensive ulcer. It was not at first thought that the opium produced these effects; but upon its being suspended, the symptoms disappeared, I have known water in opium applied on the surface of a scald in a child, which, I really believe, occasioned its death. It produced vio- lent constipation of the bowels, and convulsive motion in the eyes of the child. You should never apply opium over an extensive wound. If opium be injected into the veins of an animal, the pulse will be so quickened, that it can with difficulty be reckon- ed. It will then become so convulsed, that you can scarcely hold it on the table. Tn about five minutes it is tranquillized, and the pulse gradually sinks, until it is hardly perceptible; after an hour, the pulse is reduced to from 20® to 30® below the ordinary pulsation, which in a dog is from 110 to 130. The animal be- comes sleepy at the same time, that its pulse is reduced. With respect to the treatment of persons who have taken considerable quantities of opium, active emetics should be immediately acL- ministered, if you have an opportunity of doing so ; such as the sulphate of zinc or the sulphate of copper. But it will often happen that you have not these substances at hand : you must endeavour in that case to excite as much irritation as possible in the throat, with a view of producing vomiting. I certainly think, however, after the experiment which you had an opportunity of witnessing in this theatre, and that which was made on the dog in the other hospital, that the instrument for evacuating the sto- mach affords the best means of saving persons, who would other- wise perish under the influence of opium. 1 mentioned to you on a former occasion the case of a young lady who had taken opium, in which every means which I could employ for the purpose of producing vomiting proved completely unavailing. When the oesophagus has lost its functions, which it soon does from the influence of opium, no stimulating substances will pro-