107 ON GANGRENE. loosened the tourniquet, I was surprised to find no femoral artery. On a closer eiaminatiou, I found that the inner side of the femoral artery was completely plugged up, and sealed by the coagulum, which had extended at least six inches above the place at which the gangrene had occurred. It appears, therefore, that the artery is not only sealed at the place at which nature cuts through it, but at a considerable distance above it in order to provide against the danger which would arise from a sepa- ration of the coagulum. Bones, at last, become separated; but this process is very slow, and it is a long time before they exfoliate, loaded as they are with phosphate of lime. Hence we are often under the necessity of taking away bones, when the process of separation is in other respects complete. I am anxious, whenever I have an opportunity in these lectures, to refer you to cases actually existing in the hospitals; and you cannot have a better opportu- nity of observing the process of nature with respect to the separa- tion of bones, than in the case of popliteal aneurism, to which I have before directed your attention. This man underwent the operation for aneurism in the other hospital. The aneurismal bag had been loaded with fluid blood for a length of time; the process of gangrene commenced at the ankle; all the soft parts were absorbed, and there is nothing now remaining but a portion of bone, which will also separate, if we permit it to do so. The saw would quicken the process, but it is unnecessary, for the bone will separate by the efforts of nature alone. I knew a person in the county from which I came (Norfolk), whose leg entirely separated by the process of gangrene alone. In the foot this very commonly takes place ; in the calf of the leg it is not common, but below the calf it frequently occurs. I attended one of the king’s messengers, some time ago, who came from Germany, with a gangrene in the foot. The foot separated at the tarsus, and the whole process went on without any surgical operation, and with nothing but the aid of the simplest applica- cations. Gangrene b frequently the effect of a debilitated state of the constitution. I'hus, if a man have been confined by long con- tinued fever, the nates are apt to slough and become gangrenous in consequence of the imperfect circulation, arising from the po- sition in which he has been forced to remain. Some fevers have a greater tendency than others to produce gangrene; as for ex-