ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. S77 Young, a surgeon of the city, (whose ill health the profession has deeply to deplore), who had a scirrhous affection of the breast, accompanied with agonizing pains of the back; the disease proceeded, and the patient was at last worn out by irritation. Both Mr. Young and myself were extremely anxious to ascertain the cause of the pain in the back ; and, on examination of the vertebrm, we found several affected with scirrhous tubercles, and in a state so as to surprise any one. The bone had been absorbed as far the scirrhous had formed, which was as distinct as scirrhous of the breast. I operated on a patient at the other hospital for a > scirrhous breast; the disease returned, and she came back to the Hospital to end her days ; she also had a disease of the spine, from which she had suffered more than from that of the breast. On examination after death tubercles were found dhering to her spine; thus much for the appearances found on dissection. I shall conclude by observing, that what I have to say to you on the diseases of the breast and testis I wish particularly to impress on your minds ; and I hope that I am not too arrogant in saying that the knowledge I possess of these diseases is to a consider- able degree my own—that it is the result of an extensive ob- servation on both the dead and the living, and that knowledge, to the best of my ability, shall be communicated to you. LECTURE XLIIl. I WAS speaking, at the conclusion of the last lecture, of the dis- sections of the scirrhous tubercle, and I promised to bring some preparations shewing the effects of this disease on different parts of the body. Here is a part of the thigh-bone, taken from the breast of the patient who broke her thigh on rising in bed. On examination, there was found scirrhous tubercles in the thigh- bone which you have now an opportunity of seeing. Here is a specimen taken from the lady of Sussex, who had disease of the breast, and fractured her thigh turning herself in bed ; she had excruciating pain in the thigh after the accident, but she lived a long time afterwards. On examining the part after death, we found it affected with scirrhous tubercles, which had commenced in the cancelli of the bone, and lastly, the shell had given way. You will see the scirrhous tubercle exter or to the bone. I had a specimen sent me by a practitioner in the country, of the os humeri, which had undergone a similar change, in opening th