166 ON WOUNDS OF THE SCALP, reason: in the former case, where both the dura mater and pia mater are wounded, a fungus immediately projects, and fills up the cavity. If, however, there is only a small opening in the dura mater, and I were to put some quicksilver into it, where would it go 1—into the lower part of the spine between the tunica arachnoides and dura matral covering ; inflammation of the dura mater would spread over the whole cavity of the canal, as erysi- pelas does over the surface of the body ; whereas, in the first kind of injury, fungus will project through the opening, which would easily close by the process of adhesion that would take place, I have seen many instances where the dura mater and pia mater have been wounded, but few where the dura mater only has been. After trephining, the elevator should be introduced to raise the depressed bone, and in this way return it to its natural situation. You see that there is no necessity to operate where there is any risk, because an operation in a part where there is no risk can be as well performed, the object being only to raise the bone. LECTURE XIX. On Wounds of the Scalp. On this subject I have out few observations to make. I\'ounds of the scalp are not devoid of danger, and I have known several instances in which apparently slight wounds of that part have destroyed life. They are more especially dangerous if. accom- panied with contusion. If a person receives a blow from an in- strument capable of lacerating the part, and considerable inflam- mation follows, the wound will sometimes destroy life. There are two ways in which wounds on the scalp occasionally prove destructive of life ; first, by producing erysipelas, and, secondly, by producing inflammation of the tendon of the occipito-fron- talis. A man came to the other hospital a short time ago with a wound of the head from a blow which a companion had given him. The dresser thought it too slight a case for admission into tlie hospital; but a few days after the man returned with violent pain in the head, a considerable swelling of the scalp, and erysi- pelatous inflammation extending over the whole face and neck, lie was admitted into the hospital for the erysipelatous inflamma-