95 ON ULCERS. be the result; this clearly shows tliat the motions of the sphinc- ter occasioned a continuance of the evil. Sometimes in these cases, for the purpose of exciting the adhesive inflammation, in- jections are used. Now, which is the best 7 In my opinion, tinctura lyttse : it readily produces inflammation; adhesive mat- ter is thrown out; you take care to keep the sides of the sinus in contact; end by these means the parts will permanently coalesce. Sinuses of the rectum, however are seldom cured without an operation : indeed, I have met with but two such cases; one was that of a gentleman who came from the north of England ; he had been annoyed by a fistula on each side of the anus, one of which was operated upon by the late celebrilted Mr. Hey, of Leeds. He was cured on that side by the operation ; but as it was attended with great loss of blood, the patient was too much frightened to be cut again, and, came to town for my advice. I examined him, and finding that there was consider- able space between the anus and fistula, I advised him not to submit to the operation, and said that I would try to relieve him without it. I injected first port wine and water : this did not answer—it was not sufficiently powerful. I therefore threw in port wine alone, and succeeded in obliterating the canal. I was fortunate in this instance ; for I can assure you that fistula in ano is seldom, very seldom, completely cored without an ope- ration. When you do not succeed by injection, you may em- ploy the caustic bougie. Still pressure will be necessary ; and it is quite impossible that you can succeed without it. When the fistula is very deep, it may be divided into two or a seton may be introduced, and kept in for a fortnight or three w'eeks, with a view of stimulating the parts for the purpose of filling the cavity with granulations. LECTURE XIII. The Subject op Ulcers Continued. In this evening’s lecture, I sliall continue the subject of ulce- ration. Ulcers are frequently formed for the purpose of al- lowing the discharge of extraneous bodies; when such sub- stances become lodged, therefore, in any part of the human frame, inflammation is excited—pus becomes secreted, which, pressing towards the surface, ulceration takes place, and the ex- traneous substance is thus afforded an opportunity of escaping.