191 ON THE TYING OF ARTERIES. beeu successful, but upon one side only. The first person who succeeded in this operation was Dr. Post, of Philadelphia; he is no post (a laugh), though his name is Post, hut an exceedingly clever, industrious surgeon. Since this gentleman several others have perfonned it, and the results favourable—a gentleman or the name of Liston is one—Mr. Bullen, of Lynn, in Norfolk, another—and you have lately seen a very successful one in the other hospital. Mr. Keate, sen., the uncle of the present Mr. Robert Keate, performed the operation below the clavicle, and the first time he did so, it was completely successful ; there may happen cases of axillary aneurism when the operation below the clavicle would be the best and safest, but unquestionably in ordinary instances, that which I first described, viz., the one above the plavicle, is by far the most preferable. If, gentlemen, you were asked what artery chiefly supported the circulation after the subclavian had been tied, your answer would be the superior scapula. The late Mr. Taunton, lecturer on anatomy, had in his possession an excellent specimen of natural obliteration of the subclavian artery, and in this example the superior scapular had become very much en- .ferged. Tying the Brachi.vl AaTEnv. This artery very seldom requires to be secured in consequence of aneurism ; but it is often rendered necessary from other causes, such as wounds, and some of these wounds indeed, as in bleeding, give rise to aneurism. When an aneurismal tumour at the bend of the arm has been thus formed, let me recommend you not to cut down upon it, in order to secure the vessel ; rather tie the bra- chial jLTtery at the middle of the arm, and not make an inci- sion upon the swelling, at the middle of the elbow. To put a li- gature upon the vessel here, amidst a mass of extravasaled blood, is tedious, difficult, and dangerous. A young gentleman in the hos- pital bled a man, and in doing so, penetrated the radial artery ; thirty-seven ounces of blood were lost before he could succeed in stopping it; in three days the pressure caused so much pain that the man requested it to be lightened ; this was done, and the bleeding returned ; at the end of the week one of the surgeons deemed it prudent to secure the vessel, and he did so at the part where the wound had been made; the operation took an hour in performing, and it was excessively difficult to find the vessel. On the following day there were both irritation and inflammatiun, and on the tenth day from that of the accident he