6«2 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. let the 4imh remain on its outer side in the bent position, with the foot well supported: a many-tailed bandage should be ap- plied, and kept wet with the spirit wash. The patient may leave his bed and walk on crutches at the end of five weeks; friction and passive motion should be used at the end of eight weeks, and twelve weeks will elapse before he has the perfect motion of the joint. Of the Dislocation forwards.—Here the foot appears much shortened and fixed, and the toes pointed to the ground. The lower end of the tibia forms a hard swelling on the middle of the tarsus. The heel appears lengthened, and there is a projection before the tendon-achilles. On dissection, it is found that the tibia rests on the navicular and internal cuneiform bones, the fibula is broken, and carried forwards at the side of the tibia, and it is fractured about three inches above its malleolus. It happens from the body failing backwards whilst the foot is con- fined, or from a person jumping from a carriage in rapid motion, with the toe pointed forwards. In reducing this dislocation, you should lay the patient in bed on his back, an assistant should grasp the thigh at its lower part, and draw it towards the body, whilst another pulls the foot in a line from the leg, and you then push the tibia back, to bring it into its proper p'ace; attending to the same rule of relaxation of the muscles and the after-treat- ment as in the former dislocation. The patient should afterwards rest the leg on the heel, apply splints on each side of the leg, with foot-pieces to support the foot at right angles with the leg. In five weeks you may allow the patient to get up, and use pas- sive motion, as the fibula will, by that time, have united. In the ■partial dislocation forwards, the tibia rests half on the os navicu- lare and half on the astragalus; the fibula is broken, and there is not any considerable projection of the heel. The toe is pointed downwards, and there is great difficulty in putting the foot flat upon the ground. The heel is drawn up, and the foot is, in a great degree, immoveable. The treatment is the same as in the complete dislocation forwards. Of the Dislocation outwards.'—This is the most dangerous of the three, as it is produced by greater violence, and is attended with more laceration of ligament, and more contusion of the integu- ments. The foot is thrown inwards, and its outer edge rests upon the ground. The malleolus projects very much, and forms Mu-h a decided prominence that the nature of the injury cannot bo mistaken. The toes and foot are pointed downwartls. In