ON FRACTURES, OF THE SKULL. [44 often happens that fracture with depression is frequently not fol- lowed by inflammation, even when the fracture is compound but we cannot be certain of this, and if it does ensue, we cannot save the patient by trephining at a late pieriod. The rule, there- fore, which I always follow, is this :—When I am called to a fracture, with depression, which is exposed to view, I generally use an elevator, and very rarely the trephine. I put this instru- ment under the bone, raise it up, and if it has been comminuted, remove the small portions of bone. If, however, one bone ia wedged within the other, I apply the trephine for raising the depressed portion of bone. The elevation of the bone is never followed by any mischief; but if you do not raise it, and inflam- mation follows, it will be too late to attempt to save the life of the patient. I shall conclude, gentlemen, by mentioning two other circum- stances ; but they are two circumstances to which, if there be any thing valuable in the lecture, I wish most particularly to call your attention. The first is this : it sometimes happens, in fracture of the skull attended with depression, that a small spicular portion of bone will project into the brain so as to produce and support epileptic symptoms. A negro, who was a patient of Mr. Birch, had fracture from a blow on the head, and a portion of bone was depressed. Shortly after he was seized with epileptic fits, which continued for many years. When he was admitted into the hos- pital, it was found that there was still a portion of the depressed bone remaining, and the trephine was applied to it. W'hen the circular piece of bone was completely sawed round by the tre- phine so that it could be moved from side to side, Mr. Birch found a difficulty in raising it; he put the elevator under it, but still it adhered to something within. At last he took a pair of forceps, and by using more force, he extracted a little spur or thorn, which had proceeded from the inner side of the skull through the dura mater into the substance of the brain, and was the cause of the epileptic fits. After its removal he had but one more fit, and completely recovered. The other circumstance which I shall mention is one, which, whether we regard it in a physiological or surgical point of view, is perhaps, one of the most extraordinary that ever occured ; and, as connected with surgery and physiology, I am surprised it has not made a greater impression on the public mind than it appears