134 6y ixjuiiiEs OF rirr, head. mos*. all the patients admitted in these hospitals during my ap- prenticeship ; they were all submitted to the operation ; inflam- mation of the membranes of the brain supervened, and nearly all died ; recovery being very rare. But do our patients now die from the effects of concussion 1 No ; by bleeding and depletion we rarely lose a patient; perhaps we have fallen into the con- trary extreme. After the expiration of my apprenticeship at these hospitals, T went over to Paris to see the practice of Desault, at the Hotel-Dieu ; and there I found that never, under any cir- cumstance whatever, did he trephine ; and that he was more successful than those who were constantly doing it here. Tre- phining in concussion is now so completely abandoned, that in the last four years I do not know that I have performed it once; whilst thirty five years ago I should have performed it five or six times a-year. But I believe that I have omitted one circum- stance ; and that is, to tell you td pay strict attention to the mind ; excessive anxiety must be prevented; for if you suffer the mind to be disturbed, you do little or nothing towards the re- covery. I was very much struck, abont twelve months ago, with an instance of this : a boy was brought to me from the north of England who had lost a portion of the skull just above the eye- brov/ ; and I was asked (for it was for this purpose that I was con- sulted) what protection should be given to the denuded brain ? On examining the brain, I distinctly perceived the pulsation was regular and slow; but at this time he was agitated by some means or other; directly, the blood was sent with increased force to the brain the pulsation became more violent; therefore, if you omit to keep the mind free from agitation, your other means will be unavailing. Lastly, the treatment of children. As you cannot always bleed them from the arm, you must give the submurias hydrar- gyri (calomel) with mild drink, so as to purge them ; leeches must be applied to the temples; you must open the juguTar vein. For the symptoms after concussion, as pain in the head, or sickness at the stomach, you must make an incision through the scalp ; put issues in; wash the bead with spirits of wine and water, for this is better than any thing else I know ; and use the shower-bath two or three times. These are the best means for giving power to the nervous system, and biinging the action of the brain into a healthy state.