ON PURULENT OPlfTHALMIA. 284 is quite out of the question in this complaint, except in the case of children. Blood should be taken in large quantities from the arm of the patient. The army surgeons, who have had the most extensive opportunities of witnessing this form of the disease, all concur in the utility of copious bleeding. All the other antiphlogistic remedies, which I before enumerated to you, are to be put in practice in this case; purgatives should be administered so as to produce a considerable quantity of watery stools ; diaphoretic medicines, and especially the tartrite of antimony, in doses of a quarter or half a grain, should be given at such intervals as to keep the patient in a state of nausea, and topical applications should be employed very much in the same manner as in simple inflammation. During the first stage of the complaint, moist warmth in the form of fomentations and poultices, such as I have already described, will be found bene- ficial. The acute stage, however, is of very short duration, and they are not to be continued beyond that period. The extent to which the antiphlogistic plan should be pushed must vary ac- cording to the violence of the complaint and the constitution or the patient. Young, robust, and plethoric patients will bear de- pletion to almost any extent; on the other hand, you must pro- ceed with more caution where the patient is of a weakly, debili- tated, or irritable habit of body. You must not, however, be deterred from adopting an active plan of treatment until you have produced a manifest effect on the system of the patient until the pulse becomes soft, the skin moist, the pain, swelling tension, and throbbing of the eyes considerably abated, the che- mosis diminished, and, in foct, all the acute symptoms more or less subdued. When this is the case, if you should be called to the complaint in an early stage of it, the subsequent treatment will in general be very easy. It often happens, however, that we are not called to this complaint until it has aj-rived at the chronic stage, when the conjunctiva is feebly pouring out pus, the pulse depressed, the skin cold and clammy, the countenance sallow, and when the constitution has materially suffered from the progress of the disease. In this state, an entirely different plan of treatment will be required. Gently stimulating applica- tions should be employed by means of a syringe, so as to cleanse the conjunctiva, and free it from the pus which has collected on it-s surface, and at the same time stimulate the relaxed vessels. In general it will be necessary to employ tonic remedies, such as