ON POISONS, 4-86 times injected without any bad consequences, but this is in cases where the patient has considerable strength of constitu* tion. When the constitution is delicate and weakly, even a drachm of tobacco used in an injection will sometimes prove destructive to life. I shall now mention to you another circumstance respecting the external application of tobacco. The mother of a boy, who was the subject of tinea capitis, having heard that tobacco was the best remedy for this complaint, went to a tobacco dealer, and bought some tobacco juice, which, as I afterwards learnt, is pre- pared in the following way : A quantity of moist tobacco is placed between two rollers, and very strongly pressed, so that the juice exudes ; and, in thus way, an extract of tobacco is produce 1 of the very strongest kind. It is used for the purpose of destroying insects, and it is also em- ployed in eruptive complaints of sheep and other animals. 'J'lie woman put this preparation on the head of the boy, at one o’clock in the afternoon; very soon after he became pale, and exceedingly sick. Feeling that purging was coming on, he went to a necessary at the back of the house, where he staid so long that his mother went to look after him, and found him with his clothes unbuttoned, sitting la an almost insensible state, with his head resting on his shoulder. He had had a copious evacuation into his clothes ; he was carried up stairs, put to bed, and, at four in the afternoon he died. A surgeon in the neighbourhood hearing of these circumstances, communicated them to me. I attended for the purpose of examining the body, and did not find any appearance of disease. There was a little effusion of fluid between the scalp and the bone, but none in the membranes or ventricles of the brain. If tobacco be introduced in any quan- tity into the stomach of animals, it kills them very quickly, by putting a stop to the action of the heart. 'J'he oil produced from tobacco, by burning it, is highly poisonous; it destroys if admi- nistered in very small quantities. With respect to its introduction by smoking, f have never known ah instance of death being pro- duced by it in this way. Opium, administered in considerable quantities, destroys life by producing apoplectic symptoms. I'he first case of the destruc- tion of human life by opium, which I had an opportunity of witnessing, was one in which the person was suspected of having committed a murder. He was seen at a great distance from the