ON POISONS. 478 If the fever should attack the individual a second time, which it seldom does, it will be slight, and its effects insignificant, com- pared to those in the first instance. The same thing happens in scarlatina, the fever being much less the second ti.ne than the first; the inflammatory symptoms in such cases are mitigated, and much less severe. In vegetable poisons, the effects upon the body are generally proportioned to the quantity of poison taken ; not so, however, with morbid poisons, for no particular influence is manifest, whether the quantity inserted be large or small, whe- ther the point of the knife be loaded with the poison, or whether it be slightly touched with it; its effects depend upon the state of the constitution at the time the poison is introduced; its ac- tion is modified by the peculiar condition of the patient, and not upon the quantity of the poison. In opposition to this result. Dr. Fordyce believed that, if the poison were diluted, its in- fiuence would be much less severe ; accordingly he tried some experiments, attempting to prove this, and exceedingly diluted the poison with water; the effects, however, were precisely simi- lar to those excited by the poison in its concentrated state ; he therefore relinquished the opinion as untenable. This, then, is a remarkable difference between vegetable and morbid poisons; the first produces effects in proportion to the quantity taken, whereas, in the latter, the quantity of poison makes no difference in its particular specific action ; but this is regulated by the pe- culiar condition of the patient. Whether morbid poisons be taken from the dead or the living, their influence appears to be the same; a medical man, whom you all respect very much, inoculated his child for small-pox with matter taken from a sub- ject in the dissecting-room; this was exceedingly wrong, such matter ought not to be made use of; and I merely mention this fact to you for the purpose of shewing that the virus, under these circumstances, will produce the disease, and even in its mildest form, for the child of this gentleman did extremely well, and had the disease favourably. Now, as to the time when the influence of vegetable and ani- mal poisons begins to show itself, there is likewise a very great difference ; the most powerful of the vegetable appearing, in many instances, almost immediately (however, in this respect there is some variety; ; whereas the symptoms arising from mor- bid poisons are often protracted to very distant periods. In na- tural small-pox the disease generally appears fourteen days after