SCROFULOUS GLANDS OF THE NECK. '^OO moment that there is the slightest blush on the part and sense of fluctuation, indicating the presence of pus, you should make a small opening with a lancet, as in a common abscess ; you should not wait for the skin to assume a livid hue, for then you will never be able to prevent scars. A scar in the neck of a boy is not of much consequence, but in the neck of a female it is quite a different case. In boys the neck is covered by the dress; whereas, in females, it is generally exposed, and a scar in that part might be the means of destroying the happiness of the indi- vidual whose misfortune it was to have it. Nothing, gentlemen, is so revolting to the mind, or at least to the minds of those who possess fine feelings and a refined taste, as the appearance of any thing on the female figure which calls to the recollection that the person you behold is tainted by a disease of a scrofulous nature; and therefore it is your duty, if you have any regard for your own reputation and the happiness of others, to prevent the oc- currence of scars on the neck, a circumstance which may be easily effected. I will tell you why scars on the neck are so fre- quently met with: the surgeon waits, too often, till the skin has become livid, and then makes a puncture. But in this case he gains nothing by making an opening into the gland; in fact, if the skin be of a livid colour, I advise you then not to make an opening. Apply poultices, and let nature efifect the opening; for the scar will not be so great then as if you were to make it. But I seriously advise you to make a puncture before the skin as- sumes the appearance I have just been describing to you. The instrument with which I open these abscesses is a cataract knife, and I make the incision transversely, and just in the direction of the creases of the neck, so that when the wound heals, no scar is to be perceived. When the matter is discharged by the puncture, apply your finger to the side of the swelling, and squeeze out all the solid matter that may be contained in the gland. If the sac be not carefully emptied of all the solid matter, this substance will keep up considerable irritation, and prevent the healing of the wound; therefore I wish to press on your attention the necessity of attending to this point. I have frequently seen serious inconvenience occasioned by its being neglected. Remember, first, the time at which you are to make the puncture, and the direction in which it is to be made ; and, secondly, do not omit, in all these cases, to squeeze out all the solid matter that may be within the gland. If the wound bo in- dolent afterwards, you had better inject into it a solution of