1G9 OS ANEURISM OF THE AORTA. There wis a case in this hospital of aneurism just above the coe- liac artery, where the patient had frequent vomiting, constant nau- sea, and could not bear to take any food. When the aneurism is lower down in the cavity of the abdomen, it often bursts into the intestine. Here is a specimen (holding it in his hand), where there is an opening in the jejunum and the fore part of the aneur- ismal tumour, of which the patient died. It was taken from a near relation of an eminent physician. Dr. S. brought him, in or- der that I might give my opinion of a pulsation in the abdomen ; he dined with me, we made as light of it as possible, and he was very cheerful at dinner; three weeks afterwards I was sent for, to Henbury, to visit liim ; he was seized with discharge of blood by stool; he revived a little, and hopes of recovery were enter- tained by his friends ; the following morning, however, the dis- charge of blood returned, and he died suddenly. * When the aneurismal tumour presses on the spine, absorption of the vertebr® takes place, as in this instance (exhibiting a spe- cimen) : you will also find a large swelling in the loins ; but you must be on your guard respecting this swelling, lest it be mista- ken for any other complaint. One of the surgeons of this hospi- tal, but who is since dead, had a patient with a swelling in his loins ; this the surgeon took for lumbar abscess ; he took out his lancet, and introduced it obliquely, when some florid blood issued by the side of the instrument. Adhesive plaister was put to the wound, and it healed; he died, however, from the irritation of the aneurismal sac. On examination, it was found, that the swelling was from the aneurismal tumour, the lancet had not penetrated into it, but wounded its coals. There is no pulsation to be felt in the loins from these tumours, nor was there any in the case I have just mentioned, and this is owing to the distance of the swelling from the aorta; thus men that are well informed in their profession may commit mistakes in these obscure cases. Aneurisms fo«n in the cavity of the pelvis, in the ischiatic notch, and under the gluteusmaximus muscle ; you will be on your guard, therefore, when you find tumours on the nates. A man was sent from Gainsborough to the other hospital with an aneurism or tu- mour on the nates; I hesitated at first respecting its nature ; hemorrhage came on from the bladder, when it was immediately thought that the aneurism adhered to the bladder, and an opening into it had been formed, as wjs afterwards found to be the case on examination, 'fhis is all it will be necessary to say to you