ON ULCERS 90 guentum hydrargyri fortius to the edge of the sore. Lotions arc frequently applied with the same view; such as the sulphate of zinc, in the proportion of two grains to one ounce of water: or the sulphate of copper, in the proportion of one grain to three ounces of water. The oxymuriate of mercury, and the liquor calcis, are also used for the same purpose. In addition to these applications, it will be necessary to bind up the sore with a roller, and to allow the patient to take a great deal of exercise ; for, without exercise, a healing disposition will not be produced in the sore. It will be highly useful in these cases to employ some stimu- lating plaister, such as the emplastrum galbani compositum, for the adhesive plaister will not answer the purpose: the sores are languid, and the object is to increase the action in the part; this will be greatly assisted by gpving the patient a nutritious diet, allowing him at the same time to take exercise, and, in fact, by doing every thing to improve the constitution. Well, the next stage of ulcers we come to, is that to be met with in patients on their admission into the hospitals. When the surgeon goes round the hospital on the first day after the taking in, he will meet with a number of persons with inflamed ulcers on their legs ; and what, I ask of you, is the character of these sores? You know that there is a serous discharge from these wounds, a bloody ichor, composed of serum and the red particles of the blood—a disposition, in many cases, to slough —that the surface is covered with a brown incrustation, and the skin and surrounding parts are highly inflamed. Well, then, you will find that the same treatment which is applicable to inflammation in general, will be of service in these cases, where inflammation has been kept up for a long time to a high degree.- Rest must be enjoined: the patient must also keep in bed in the recumbent posture. Fomentations and poul- tices must be employed: fomentations will tend to produce a secretion from the part; and poultices, by their soothing quality, to promote the growth of granulation; both will evacuate the matter from the wounds. Then, with these applications, the vessels begin to form, the sore assumes a better appearance, healthy secretions are thrown out, and granulations shoot up, fibrous matter is deposited, and in a little time you will have the skin covering the wound. Fomentations, poultices, rest.