4-3G ON THE DIFFERENT AMPUTATIONS. LECTURE XLIX. On the Different Amputations. Operations are now much less frequently performed than they were in the days of our ancestors, owing to the great improve- ments which have taken place in surgical science. Many of the diseases which were formerly considered incurable can now be easily cured by modes of treatment corre.sponding with our in- creased pathological knowledge. Many accidents, for example, where the parts are much lacerated, and for which the ancients would have operated, we leave to nature, by whose influence the difterent reparative processes will be set in action, and the injured limb restored to health and utility. When amputation is necessary nature will occasionally even perform this operation unassisted by art; in mortification of the feet it often happens that the leg will be amputated bv nature as effectually as though it had been ac- complished by the knife. At Guy’s Hospital there is at the pre- sent moment a case of this description. You have seen, in the case which I allude to, first, a division of the skin—then the division of the muscles shorter than the skin, and lastly, the di- vision of the bones; the fibula has already separated, and the exfoliation of the tibia is rapidly going on. Nature in this case if left to herself, would, without doubt, accomplish the amputation of the leg ; but the safety of the man requires, 1 think, that the remainder of the bone should be divided by the saw, for if this be not done, the long continued excitement may wear out the powers of the constitution. Diseased joints used very frequently to lead to the perform- ance of amputation in young persons as well as in the old ; but amputation is much less frequently performed at the present day, in consequence of such disease, than some years back ; even dis- eases of the joints of the upper extremities of children give rise to amputation much less frequently than in the days of our fore- fathers, but in chronic diseases of the ankle and knee, amputation is still very commonly performed ; there is, however, a marked distinction in chronic enlargements ; one variety may be called congenital, which exists from the birth of the child, and the other is from some debilitating causes which produces the com- plaint after birth ; as the constitution, therefore, is radically weak or vitiated in the former of these affections, you cannot expect that such permanent benefit will result in that case, as in the