ON FRACTURES OF THE VERTEBR.E. 159 the treatment of which much is understood in the present state of our knowledge. They are of too rare occurrence to enable us to lay down any positive principles as to the mode in which they are to be treated. On Fractuiies of the VERTEnn/E. Fractuies with displacement of the spine are by no means un- frequent; they have been improperly called dislocations ; but dis- locations of the spine are e.vtreraely rare, and only occur in the cervical vertebr®. What are called dislocations are, in fact fractures with displacement. It is not that one vertebra is se- parated from another, for this very rarely happens, and only in the cervical ; but that the vertebra is broken through. When fracture with displacement of the spine occurs, paralysis takes place in the parts of the body situated below the injury. If it occur in the loins, paralysis of the lower extremities follows ; the power of retaining the faces, and of expelling the urine, is lost. When the injury occurs in the dorsal vertebr®, there is paralysis of the lower extremities: the same loss of power in retaining the f®ces and expelling the urine, with this addition, that it is accompanied with considerable inflation of the abdomen. This inflation might lead the surgeon at first to sup- pose that there was some rupture of the intestines; but after a few hpurs, when the patient has had free evacuations, this inflated state of the intestines disappears. The inflation is produced by the great secretion of air into the intestines, in consequence of the diminished powers of the part. When the injury occurs in the lower part of the cervical ver- tebr®, paralysis takes place in the upper as well as the lower ex- tremities, though not in the same degree. There is a numbness of the upper extremities, but seldom such a degree of paralysis as to deprive the patient of all power, when the injury occurs be- low the fourth cervical. The time in which the person dies from these injuries varies according to the seat of the accident. If it occur in the loins, the patient will generally die in from five to six weeks; if the displacement be very considerable, he may die in three weeks : on the other hand when the displacement is slight, the patient may live many weeks, and even months. I have known a person live two years after an injury which was supposed to be a case of fracture, with displacement of the lumbar vertebr®. As there was no examination of the body after death, in the case to which I allude, some doubt must no-