496 ON VIRULENT OONORRIKEA, dered him insensible to its effecte, we will not decide; certfun it IS, thnt he continued to est his pnrsley with s. provoking vivncioiis* ness up to the moment we left the theatre. The learned pro- fessor introduced a minute portion of the poison within the cel- lular tissue of a second rabbit, on which it soon produced the usual deadly effects. It appeared to suffer no pain, but at the expiration of three minutes, its hinder extremities were para- lysed ; in three minutes and a half it appeared to be insen- sible, and at the end of four minutes it rolled on its back, and died.] LECTURE LV. The subject of this evening’s lecture will be the Venereal Disease. There are two poisons communicated by venereal intercourse; one the poison of gonorrhoea, which, falling upon a mucous sur- face, produces from that surface a discharge of matter which is infectious ; the other, the poison of syphilis, being applied to the surface of the skin, or, as far as is known at present, to any sur- face, produces inflammation and ulceri.tion, forming a sore which 4s called chancre ; the discharge from this, being received into the absorbent glands, occasions bubo, and, being conveyed into the circulation, produces inflammation and ulceration in the throat, on the skin, the periosteum, and the bones. Of Virulent Gonorriicea. When gonoiThoeal matter is applied to the urethra, the fol- lowing symptoms generally arise in three or four days after its application :—The patient first experiences a sense of titil- lation in the urethra, as if a drop of urine were contained in it. 1'his directs his attention to the part; and he finds that the lips of tlie urethra are red, and that there is a slight mucoiLs discharge. The next circumstances which take place are these: the urethra begins to be affected with considerable heat, and he experiences pain in discharging his unne ; this slate is called ardor urinas. The pain increases till it becomes, in many cases, excessively severe : there is an appearance of threads mixed with the urine, which arises from the adhesive inflammation in the lacunae of the urethra. The next effect is a considerable diminution in the stream, the swollen state of the urethra con- tracting the size of the canal. The urine is often dis^arged in