ON INFLAMMATION OF THE CORNEA. 296 taken in dividing them j they must be divided near to the mar- gin of the cornea, and turned back from the apex towards the base. There are a few other affections of the conjunctiva, but not of sufficient importance for me to detain you any longer this evening. LECTURE XXXIV. On Inflammation of the Cohnea. At the outset, in inflammation attacking the transparent cornea, there is a hazy appearance, the cornea loses its natural lustre, and in a short time there may be discovered om its surface, ves- sels carrying red blood, and then the symptoms will be the same as those of inflammation in general ; the patient will complain of intolerance of light, and also have effusion of tears. When the inflammation of the cornea continues, matter very frequently forms between its lamellae, and the appearance which it then assumes is called onyi or unguis, from its resemblance to a nail ; the mat- ter is to be very distinctly seen in the transparent part of the eye, and gradually extends till it occupies one-third or fourth of the cornea. If you place the eye in profile, you can generally ob- serve yellowish spots, which are usually seated at the anterior part of the cornea, and if you employ gentle pressure with a probe the fluid may be felt fluctuating within. In the various positions of the head the matter does not shift its situation, but remains in the same spot. By proper treatment the matter often becomes absorbed, but it not unfrequently makes its way externally, or an opening is formed internally, and the matter is then effused into the anterior chamber of the eye. I shall defer speaking of the treatment of this inflammation till I have considered the next subject— Ulceration of the Cornea. This disea.se is the common consequence of inflammation of the cornea ; but it is very frequently produced by the contact of matter in purulent ophthalmia, and the irritation of lime, or by any sharp-pointed bodies which may be insinuated into the cor- nea ; or. in fact, any irritating Sabstance, mechanical or chemi- cal that may be introduced into the eye. The inflammation pro-