466 ON THE TREATMENT OF INTERNAL PILES, these reverses I feel it my duty most candidly and openly to de- clare to you. A gentleman from the East Indies placed himself under my care with internal piles, which I removed with the scis- sors. A very few days after he complained of pain by the side of the rectum ; an abscess formed under the gluteus muscle, which discharged abundantly; his constitution wasalready broken, and he died in consequence of the discharge. Considering this to be merely a case of bad constitution, which might not apply to any considerable number of cases, I did not gpve up a practice which I had hitherto found successful, in consequence of a cir- cumstance which I regarded as accidental. Five years ago a nobleman applied to me with internal piles. I was upon my guard in this case, and said I did not like to re- move the piles without a consultation. A consultation was held and the removal by excision was agreed to; I accordingly removed them, and h»was well in a very few days. Two years after he sent for me again, and said that he had some more of these piles with prolapsus ani, and that he wished me to cut them off again ; 1 did so, and as 1 advised the recumbent posture he went immediately to bed. As 1 was anxious about this patient, 1 did not immediately quit the room, but stood chatting with him for a short time, when he said, I believe you must quit the room, for I must have a motion. I went out of the room, and upon returning shortly after I found him trying to get into bed, and upon looking into the vessel I perceived a considerable quantity of blood in it. In a few minutes after, he said he must have another motion, got out of bed, and again discharged a considerable quantity of blood. This he did four different times ; one of the hemorrhoidal arteries in the centre of one of the piles which had been removed was di- vided, and as I was determined he should not die of hemorrhage I said I must secure the vessel which bled, and with a speculum ani I opened the rectum sufficiently to see the blood vessel, took it up with a tenaculum, and put a ligature round it. On the follow- ing day I found the patient who was much advanced in years, ex- tremely weak ; he had had a severe rigor, he grew gradually worse, and in four days after he died. On examination of the body there a.ppeared to be some slight disease of the intestines, but not sufficient to account for death ; he was seventy-four years of age. A person from Jersey or Guernsey was attended by Mr. for piles; Mr removed them with a pair of scissors, but did not see him on the following day. I was informed that he