ON WASTING OF THE TESTES. 535 LECTURE LX. Gkntlzmev, having at a former time treated of chronic enlarge- ment of the testicle, and irritable testicle, I shall proceed this evening to consider sympathetic bubo. Sympathetic Bubo is usually the result of inflammation of the glands of the penis. The inflammation e.Ytends on the outward surface of the glands, the absorbents of the dorsum of the penis become enlarged, and, if you rub your finger along the dorsum, you feel tliem hardened like a knot or cord, and frequently connected with the glands near the pubes. A bubo of this kind rarely suppu- rates ; now and then you will meet with one that suppurates, but only in very irritable constitutions. When the inflammation ex- tends from the penis to the glands of the groin, these become inflamed also, and enlarged ; and it is not at all surprising for a swelling, after a gonorrhoea, to come on in the groin; a patient under such circumstances is afraid of a bubo, and alarm is ex- cited in his mind of its being syphilitic ; you may, however, calm his fears, and tell him that it is a common concomitant of gonorrhoea, and that he need not be uneasy. I'he distinction between a sympathetic bubo, and one from sy- philis. consists in this circumstance :—in general, one gland only is enlarged in syphilis; but in a sympathetic bubo you most fre- ciuently find a chain of glands affected. In the groin there are two sets of glands; one just above Poupart’s ligament, and the other about two inches or an inch and a half below it: the lower tier Is seldom enlarged from sympathy, the upper frequently Whether the gland will suppurate or not, depends greatly on the mode of treatment: if mercury be given, it will be hurried into a suppurative process, therefore it sliould not be used so as to pro- duce a mercurial .action in the system ; connected with aperients, it is proper. 'I'he plan of treatment in sympathetic bubo is the same as that for inflammation in any other part of the body ; you purge the patient, apply leeches and an evaporating lotion, and advise him to diminish his quantity of exercise. By this plan it soon gives way, and it is his own fault if it suppurates. The glaas penis is covered with a plexus of absorbents, and, by making a small puncture in the skin of the dead subject, and introducing some quicksilver under it, those of the dorsum receive