442 ON THE DIFFERENT AMPUTATIOKS. have tried tliis operation, and do not like it; the inflammation which generally results from it is exceedingly severe, and the suppuration very extensive ; this may be accounted for from so large a portion of articulating surface being exposed by the ope. ration. 1 am of opinion that it is much better to saw through the bones than to perform this operation ; there will be much less inflammation, much less suppuration, much less risk to the patient, and at the same time a much greater ehance that the integuments will unite by the adhesive process. I would, there- fore, advise you, when it is practicable, rather to saw through the os naviculare and os cuboides than to entirely separate these bones at their articulating surfaces; independently of the ad- vantages which I have already mentioned to you ; the last ope- ration would afford the patient a better bearing for the body than the former, as more of the foot will be left by it. Upon the whole, then, I am positive that you will find the operation of sawing through the bones more successful than that of removing the foot at the joint. On Flap Amputation of the Leg. It is usually performed a little above the ankle joint, about two-thirds of the length of the leg downwards ; it is performed with a view of enabling the person to wear an artificial leg; and in those individuals whose circumstances do not require them to obtain their food by manual labour, it may succeed, and answer the object in view ; but for those persons who, by their industry and muscular exertions, have to obtain a livelihood, it does not succeed. A man, a few years since, in Guy’s Hospital, requested me to amputate his leg a little below the knee, whose foot had previously been removed a little above the ankle. As the stump was quite well, and the man appeared in health, I really did not think him serious ;• upon finding, however, that he was so, 1 persuaded him against the measure, and said to him. You had better " Bear those ills you have. Than fly to others that you know not of.” As he persisted, however, in requesting the operation might be performed, his wishes were at length gratified, and he had the satisfaction of showing to his friends his improved stump.