4U4 ON PUNCTURING THE IJI.ADDER. bladder at all for stricture in the urethra, or enlargement of the prostate gland, is perfectly unnecessary. I will tell you why I hold this opinion genUemen; for if I were to mal^e this state- ment without assigning my reasons for it, 1 should be doing you injustice. I am aware that what I now say is not merely ad. dressed to you, but that it will go forth to the world, and 1 have no hesitation in declaring my opinion, however widely that opi- nion may be disseminated, that I consider the operation of punc- turing the bladder, with very few exceptions, entirely unneces- sary, I will explain to you the grounds on which I entertain this opinion. I was lecturing here one evening, when one of Mr. Chandler’s dressers came to me, and requested me to see a man who was labouring under retention of urine in this hospital. I went immediately, and found that he was suffering under reten- tion of urine, from the use of a caustic bougie. I desired him to try to make water and while he was trying, I put my finger on the perinaeum, and distinctly felt the water rush against the stricture, which was just opposite the arch of the pubes, the urethra having become enlarged behind the stricture. I di- rected him to be carried into the operating theatre, and just making an incision under the symphysis pubis, I desired him to try to make water. While he was trying, the urethra being very much distended with urine, I opened it, and the urine flowed. He was put to bed without undergoing any other operation ; the inflaunmation produced by the caustic bougie subsided, and common bougies were afterwards used. The man was completely relieved by the operation, and this is all 1 have done since in cases of accumulation of urine in the bladder. I desire the patient to draw up his legs as if he was going to be operated upon for stone, and I tell him that I am just going to make a small incision, which will not expose him to any risk. If I find a difficulty, on account of the stric- ture being situated very near the apex of the prostate gland, on opening the urethra I introduce an instrument in the way in which many of you saw me perform the operation a few days ago. Instead of carrying the point of the instrument to- wards the bladder, I direct it outwards, so as to bnng the urethra into the perinaeum, and making a cut behind the point of the instrument, I introduce a probe and carry it to the stric- ture. If the incision is not sufficient, I carry the opening still