ON SUPPURATION IN BONE. G76 collated structure, and, occ^ionally, but very rarely, between the lamina forming the shell of the bone. When an abscess forms between the periosteum and surface of the bone, it possesses the common characters of the formation of matter; there is severe pain e.xtending along the surface of the bone; this pain, though severe, is of an obtuse kind; it becomes worse at night, and produces an inequality on the surface of the bone. It is a long time, however, before the periosteum ulcerates; the skin presents a circumscribed blush; you may even feel a fluctuation for a long period before the abscess breaks. The matter is to be evacuated as soon as the redness aud fluctuation are distinct; then place the periosteum as closely on the bone as you can, leaving a small opening for the discharge of the matter, and apply at the same time straps of adhesive plaster round the opening, to keep the periosteum in contact with the bone, and the probability is that the parts will unite by adhesion. But if the opening made by nature or by the surgeon be large, the bone is deprived of its supply of blood, the part exfoliates, and granu> lations afterwards shoot out. The treatment to be further pursued is this : if the bone be much exposed and die, touch it with an acid that will decompose the phosphate of lime, and the cartilaginous part also, and for this purpose the lotion of muriatic acid, commencing with gtt. ji. to 5'. of water, or the lotion of nitric ocul gtt. ji. to gj., will be found the most useful. I think, however, that the diluted nitric acid is the best; it induces a healthy state of the bone, and of the other parts, and it is the application which I generally prefer. Sometimes acetic acid is used for this purpose. When the granulations arise from either the medullary mem^ brane, or from the periosteum, on the surface of the bone, carti- lage is first deposited, and afterwards phosphate of lime. When an abscess forms in the cancellated structure, a peculiar process takes place. The result of the pressure of the abscess is to cause an absorption of the cancellated structure, and in this way the space for the increase of the abscess continues to be en- larged. At the time that there is an inflammatory action existing in the medullary membrane, there is a corresponding degree of inflammation going on in the periosteum, which causes a bony crust to be deposited on the surface, which materially increases the size and strength of the bone. But upon that part of the bone least covered by skin and muscles there is an ulcerative process going on, which overcomes the deposit from the perios-