INFLAMMATION OF THE TESTICLES. 632 Treatment is very simple; press the finger and thumb upon the urethra, deep in the perinajum, and observe if you command the bleeding ; if you do not, bring your hand a little nearer to- wards you : proceeding carefully in this way, you will at last learn the precise spot from whence the blood flows, which you will generally find to be from that part of the urethra apposite the symphysis pubis. If you continue to press with your finger and thumb for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, the bleed- ing will cease ; but as this would be tedious, and often inconve- nient, a compress placed upon the part, and secured by a roller carried round the loins, and brought up between the thighs, will answer equally well, and perhaps better, as it may be worn for an hour or two if deemed necessary. I have gone into a room, and found a person soused all over with water, in consequence of a bleeding of this description ; such a practice is useless and absurd. You may give to the patient some aperient medicine ; and, to lessen the disposition to hemorrhage, you may take blood from the arm. The next subject to which 1 shall call your at- tention is. Inflammation of the Testicle and Epididymis. This complaint, from an error of pathology, used to be called hernia humoralis, in consequence of a belief that it arose from a fluxion of humours to the testicles. The inflammation of the testicles generally shews itself from within ten to fourteen day’s after the appearance of the gonorrhoeal discharge. The first symptom indicative of inflammation of the testicles, is a sensation of a drop of urine in the pennasum ; at this time the inflamma- tion is proceeding down the urethra, and, before it reaches the testicle, affects the prostate, verumontanum, vasa deferentia, pro- ceeds up the cord to the abdominal ring, then attacks the epidi- dymis ; and finally, the testicle itself. While the inflammation is confined to the epididymis, the patient feels little or no pain ; but when it has passed to the body of the testicle, then there will be felt excessive pain in consequence of the unyielding nature of the tunica albuginea. The scrotum is sometimes reddened, aris- ing from the degree of violence which characterizes the inflam- mation. The pain does not, generally speaking, correspond to the continued course of the inflammation just now described to you ; and, in fact, the inflammation itself often appears less regu- lar in its progress. The introduction of a bougie is a common cause of this complaint; and let me tell you, that when it gives