FOLLOWED BY INFLAMMATION. 150 ance, she was entirely well. The pain, however, again returned with evident symptoms of compression ; and sixteen months after the accident she was admitted into this hospital. After some re- medies had been ''ruitlessly tried, and she had been here for a short time, it was thought advisable to try the trephine ; the ope- ration was unsuccessful, and four days afterwards she died. Upon examination it was found that there was a small quantity of pus embedded in the longitudinal sinus, as you here see it (exhibit- ing the preparation.) This is the only example of the kind which I have witnessed. The next part in which matter is sibaated is between the-tunica arachnoides and pia mater, or between the pia mater and brain itself. This last is of most common occurrence, and in this case the matter is diffused over the hemispheres of the brain, in the same manner, as I mentioned to you the other evening, that blood is when extravasated on that organ. When the matter is between the pia mater and brain, it will be of no use to operate, as very little will be discharged, there being no communication between one part and another ; for the matter is contained with- in distinct cells, between the vessels which come from the pia mater to the brain. The next situation in which matter is found is in the substance of the brain itself. Here are specimens (point- ing to some on the table), in one of which matter was lodged in the anterior lobe of the cerebrum, the other in the cerebellum; in fact, it is lodged in various parts and the only circumstance very curious in this complaint is, that you would not suppose, from the symptoms, that matter was forming; they are those of compression rather than irritation. If the membranes of the brain be attacked wdth violent inflammation, symptoms of irritation will be present; but if the brain itself, they will be those of compression ; and the circumstance which surprises a person who examines the brain of an individual in which matter has been formed is, that so little constitutional irritation existed during its formation : it is in inflammation of the mem- branes, and not of the brain itself, in which great irritation is present. Here is a curious specimen (pointing to one before him), taken from a child that I had under my care, and on whom I performed the operation of trephining; I will give you the his- sory of the case : A young child was playing in a yard where there were some fowls, when it received a wound on the head from the beak of a cock. The mother hearing the child shriek. i