DISLOCATIONS OF THE CARPUS. 634 the hand, about the flexor tendons, in consequence of a violent, sprain; as in this case there is only one swelling, and it does not appear immediately after the accident, but gradually increases in size. The reduction of this dislocation, in either form, is not difiScult. Grasp the patient’s hand with your right, and support the fore-arm with your left hand, whilst an assistant places his hands firmly round the arm, just above the elbow. Then let both extend, and the bones are soon replaced. The muscles will di- rect the bones into the proper situation, as soon as the extension is sufficiently made. A roller should be applied round the wrist, wetted with an evaporating lotion, and a splint be placed before and behind the fore-arm, reaching to the extremities of the me- tacarpal bones. The radius only is sometimes thrown forwards upon the car-, pus ; in this case, the outer side of the hand is thrown backwards and the inner forwards. The extremity of the bone forms a pro- tuberance on the fore part of the wrist. The extension neces- sary to reduce this dislocation, and the after treatment, are the same as when both bones are displaced. The ulna is sometimes separated from the radius by the rupture of the sacriform liga- ment, and it usually projects backwards. It is known by its projection above the level of the os cuneiforme, and by i s being easily returned by pressure to its former situation, and by its rising again when the pressure is renwved. After you have put the head of the bone into its place, put a compress of leather on its extremities, to keep it in a line with the radius. Splints should be placed along the fore-arm, and a roller applied over the splints to confine them with firmness. LECTURE LXXI. Dislocations of the Bones of the Carpus. Gentlemen, a dislocation of a carpal bone is of very rare oscur- rence, and generally happens to a person, when falling, receiving the weight of the body on the part; and it is also sometimes at- tended with a fracture of the radius. It has happened, also, from relaxation of the ligaments of the carpus. I have known the os magnum and the os cuneiforme, thrown out of their natural situ- ation from this cause, and form a projection at the back part of the wrist on bending the hand. This deprives the person of the power of using the hand, uulcss the wrist is at the same time.