ON THE DIFFERENT AMPUTATIONS. 441 you commenced your incision; a flap will be thus formed of mus- cles and integuments, in the same way as the flap in the thumb operation ; straps of adhesive plaister are to be employed for the purpose of keeping the edges of the wound in contact. The ves- sels required to be secured in tbe operations for the removal of the fingers are the two digital arteries. Of Ampdtation of the Foot at the Tarsus. The operation for the removal of the toes is sa similar to that of the fingers, that I do not consider it necessary to say much to you on that subject. One observation, however, I will make to you, which is, that a man who had been in the habit of removing fingers at the first joint, and who had never removed a toe, or seen one removed, if he were to conduct the bperation in the same manner, as for the removal of a finger, would feel himself very much puzzled ; that is, if he expected to find the first joint of the toes at the same distance from the web as in the fingers. You must, in the toe operation, carry down your incision between the web for at least an inch and a half, before you will be oppo- site to the joint: the other steps of the operation are the same as for the removal of a finger. A new operation has of late years been proposed for the amputation of the tarsus, by cutting through the joint, formed by the astragalus and os scaphoides, and the os calcis, with the os cuboides. Having desired your assistant to draw up the integuments, you make an incision from the bottom of the foot on one side over the dorsum down to the bo'tora on the other side, leaving the integuments of the sole of the foot undivided. Before you make your first incision, you of course feel for, and correctly ascertain, the precise situation of the joint; after tbe first incision has been completed, you are to bend the fore part of the foot downwards, by which you strech the ligaments covering the joint, and a slight touch of the knife will then enable the instrument readily to pass between the artic- ulating surfaces of the astragalus and os scaphoides ; then, by cutting still further downwards, you divide the ligaments con- necting the 03 calcis and os cuboides. You are now to place the blade of your knife horizontally, and cut along the bottom of the foot towards the toes, between the integuments and bones, until you have cut a proper distance for obtaining a sufficient quanxity of integuments to form a flap for covering the end of tbe stump, which Ls then to be oiljusted neatly oVer the wound, and confined in that situation by straps of adhesive plaister. I