632 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW, * knee, so as to separate them from the humerus, and so as to throw the coronoid process of the ulna from the posterior fossa of the humerus, where it is lodged. Whilst this pressure is kept up by the knee, the arm is to be forcibly, at the same time, gra- dually, bent, and the bones will slip into their places. After the reduction, the arm should be kept flexed, and a bandage applied, which should be kept wet with at evaporating lotion, and the arm supported in a sling. The fore-arm should be bent at rather less than a right angle with the upper arm. The elbow may be dis- located laterally, when the ulna will be thrown either on the external or internal condyle. When thrown outwards, the pro- jection is greater than in the dislocation backwards ; as the coro- noid process, instead of being lodged in the posterior fossa, is thrown behind the external condyle, and the radius forms a pro- tuberance behind, and on the outer side of the humerus, so as to produce a hollow above it; on rotating the hand, the radius may be felt to move. The ulna is sometimes thrown upon the internal cond.yle, but it projects posteriorly, as in the dislocation out- wards, and the head of the radius is situated in the posterior fossa of the humerus. It may be known by the great projection of the external condyle of the humerus, and by the hollow above the olecranon on the inner and back part of the arm. Its reduc- tion may be accomplished as in the former dislocation, by bend- ing the arm over the knee, without turning it directly outwards or inwards; for, as soon as the radius and ulna are separated from the humerus by the pressure of the knee, the biceps and the brachialis intemus, which have been before kept powerfully upon the stretch, give the bones the proper direction for reduction. The third dislocation is backwards. The ulna is sometimes thrown backwards upon the humerus, whilst the radius remains in its proper situation. The deformity of the limb is very great, by the fore-arm and hand being twisted inwards, whilst the olecranon projects considerably backwards. The fore-arm cannot be extended, nor can it be bent to more than a right angle. It is rather more difiicult to detect than the other dislocation of the elbow, but it may be known by the projection of the ulna, and the twisting inwards of the fore-arm. It is more easily reduced than when both the bones are dislocated ; you may do it readily, by bending the arm over the knee, and drawing the fore-arm downwards. In addition to the action of the brachialis intenius, the radius, by resting on the external condyle, will act as a lever to the fore-arm, in pushing the os humeri backwards on the ulna.