ON ANEURISM. 162 Cline, but both cases have terminated unfavourably. ;^Wheiher future experiments may be attended with better success it is im- possible to say. The proposal was plausible; the operation was easily performed ; and as to the result, if the spinal marrow were not torn, there seems no reason why a person should not recover after such an operation. We are obliged, however, to speak doubtingly on this subject, since the first experiments have been unsuccessful. If you could save one life in ten, ay, one in a hundred, by such an operation, it is your duty to attempt it, notwithstanding any objections which some foolish persons may have urged against it. Suppose any one now present were in this state himself; suppose him put to bed with a paralysis of his lower extremities, and fully acquainted with the inevitable result if nothing were done ; would he not be glad to have any attempt made to save him'! Would it not be foolish and un- manly to say, he would rather die than have such an attempt made 1 The operation is not seveie—it cannot add to his dan- ger ; and as to the pain, no man who is a man would regard it. In the two cases in which the attempt was made, the operation did not shorten life; on the contrary, there is reason to believe that it prolonged it. You will be justified, therefore, in making the attempt. Though I may not live long enough to see the operation frequently performed, I have no doubt that it will be occasionally performed with success. There is no reason why it should not; and he who says that it ought not to be attempted is a blockhead. I shall now proceed to describe to you Aneuhism. Aneurism is a pulsating tumour containing blood, and com- municating with the interior of an artery. There is one ex- ception to this definition, namely, where aneurism, as it some- times happens, takes place in the heart. Aneurisms are situated either externally or internally; that is, they arc either so situated on the limbs as that access may be had to them, and the nature of the disease clearly ascertained ; or they are so placed in cavities of the body, such as the abdo- men, chest, and cranium, as to render the nature ot the disease very often extremely doubtful. With respect to external aneu- risms, the symptoms may be divided into three stages. When you have an opportunity of seeing aneurism in its early stage.