ON WOUNDS Of THE BRAIN. 147 least disturbed; no bad symptoms of any kind followed the in- jury ; the wound healed most favourably, and he was soon dis- charged. About a year afterwards, while I was at the house of a lady in the city, whom I was attending, a man walked into tlic room andsaid to me, " How do you do 1” Not recollecting him, I looked at him with some sort of surprise, as you may suppose, when he informed me that he was the man whom I had seen about a year before in St. Thomas's Hospital, with a wound in the head, and through which he had lost some of his brain. I replied that I could readily believe him. He stated that he had been quite well ever since—he had what he called an opening where he received the wound; was not subject to fits ; and to show you that his mind (notwithstanding his familar “ how do you do?”) had not sustained any damage from the accident, he was, at the time I saw him, conductor of an extensive business at the house where he was then living. It occasionally happens, when a portion of brain has bee n lost, that a piece of the cranium will, by being driven in, occupy its place; and if, in these cases, no symptoms of com pressicn manifest themselves, you must not elevate the depressed bone; for were you to do so, you would, in all probability, give rise to extravasation, or increase the hazard of inflammation. The late Mr. Chandler had a patient in this hospital, who, on receiving a blow from a boat-hook upon the parietal bone, had a portion ot that bone driven into the brain, and at the same time a quantity of the brain was lost: at first there was hemiplegia ; this effect, however, soon disappeared. The depressed bone was permitted to remain, and the individual perfectly recovered. Such cases are not uncommon, and I could relate a number of them to you. The danger attending injuries of the brain arises principally from two causes ; viz., inflammation, and the formation of fungus. 1st. Inflammation, and 2nd, Fungus; but I am happy to tell you, that both of these may be conciuered by scientific and prompt treatment. When the brain receives a wound, you must com- mence your curative exertions by abstracting as large a quantity of blood from the system as the constitution of yo r j atient will bear; not, however, to such an extent as to prevent the restora- tive operations of nature. Do not lower the system to such a degree as to prevent inflammation altogether, as was done by the dresser in the other hospital, whose par'Iality for bleeding I men-