672 ON COMPOUND FRACTURES. joint was not even completely anchylosed, for he retained sufficient motion to allow him to resume his former occupation. If a contrary practice be adopted, if poultices, for example, be applied, the adhesive process is prevented, and suppuration pro- duced, which puts life in danger, or renders amputation necessary. I will, whilst I think of it, give you the result of a case where this practice was followed. A woman, between fifty and sixty years of age, was admitted into Guy’s Hospital, with a wound of the elbow-joint, and frac- ture of both the condyles of the os humeri. A poultice was di- rected to be applied, and fomentations ordered twice in the day. On the day following the accident she had a considerable degree of fever. On the third day the upper arm was exceedingly swollen, attended with a copious sanious discharge from the wound. On the fourth day her strength was greatly reduced, and the wound had almost ceased to discharge, but the arm was very much swollen, and on the fifth day she died. In all cases of this accident, the arm should be kept in the bent position ; for as anchylosis, in a greater or less degree, will be Ihe consequence, it is attended with much less inconvenience in this position than in ony other. If the bones be very much com- minuted and the wound large, all the detached portions of bone should be removed; but in old people, when much injury is done, there is often not sufficient strength to support the suppu- rative process, and amputation should be recommended. The edges of the wound should be kept together by placing a piece of lint dipped in blood over them, and a bandage lightly applied, wetted with spirits of wine and water. Even if it should suppu- rate, it will not be necessary to amputate, unless any thing par- ticular should afterwards happen. A compound fracture extending into the icrisi-joint is a very serious accident when the radius is much comminuted, but it is an injury which does very well when the radius is broken without being much shattered. I saw a case of this injury in a patient in the country, where the man met with the accident by falling upon the back of his hand, and the ulna protruded an inch and a half through the integuments ; the bone was immediately re- duced and bandaged lightly; the wound healed by the adhesive ^■ocess, and the man recovered the perfect use of his limb. I' fecolloct another case of the same kind, which came under the (Jure of Mr. Chandler, in the other hospital; I now forget in what manner the accident happened, but the ulna projected through the integuments at the back of the carpus, and a compound frac-