ON GANGRENE. 103 severe ; the inflammation is very extensive , there is generally a blush to a considerable extent; and there is generally, though not always, a considerable degree of swelling. The secretion from any sore which may exist ceases, for the skin no longer perspires. The surface of the skin becomes of a dark colour; it is said to become purple, but it is rather of a brownish tinge. The cuticle is raised ; a vesication is produced, and when this breaks, it is found to con- tain a bloody serum. When this serum is discharged, the skin assumes the gangrenous appearance, and becomes perfectly in- sensible. The vesication extends to parts beyond the ulceration ; thus in sores of the leg we frequently see a large portion of the skin giving way, and the gangrenous vesications extending be- yond the ulcerative surface. The constitution suffers consider- able derangement from gangrene ; there is a high degree of irr- tative fever, and the pulse is often exceedingly quick. The pulse is generally said to become slow when gangrene takes place, but I have never observed this. I have indeed occasionally remarked but a few beats in a minute, because it is very frequently inter- mittent. Still the pulse is quick though occasionally intermittent. It is said also to become soft, but 1 should not say that this is the character of the pulse in gangrene. It is quick, very small and thready, and generally irregular. Gangrene seldom occurs without delirium, and it is attended also with vomiting and hiccough. Hiccough, indeed is the characteristic sign of gangrene, and it takes place though the gangrene may be situate in a part very distant from the stomach ; as, for example, in the toe. The fact is that when gangrene arises from a diseased state of the constitu- tion, the stomach is extremely deranged, and this derangement of the stomach is followed by a spasmodic contraction of the diaph- ragm, producing hiccough. This symptom does not arise from any alteration in the action of the diaphragm, but from its sjrm- pathy with the deranged state of the stomach. If you wish to correct hiccough, you may arrest it for a time by giving some slight stimulus, or even by adopting opposite means. Thus a glass of cold water will suspend it for a considerable time. .Such are the symptoms when gangrene is the result of exces- sive action. But gangrene is sometimes the effect of a low de- gree of inflammation ; as when it is produced by the application of cold. When a great degree of cold has been applied to any part for a coasiderable time, the part will become benumbed ; that is, its nervous powers will be diminished; and when it is