ACUTE AND CHRONIC ABSCESS. 69 Cases.—A lady was sent to me from Sussex some years ago, to have her breast removed : knowing the surgeon who had recom- mended this person to me to be an intelligent man, I did not at- tentively examine the breast, but said to the lady, I will call upon you soon, and perform the operation. I fixed the day, and was about to perform the operation, the patient being seated in a chair before me, when I said to the gentleman (Mr. Edwards) who was assisting me, I think that I feel a sense of fluctuation here, at least I will not proceed to remove the breast till I have ascertained whether it be matter. 1 took a lancet, and made an opening into it, and out gushed a quantity of matter. I'hus a chronic abscess had existed in this part for a considerable time. Very lately, while going round Guy’s Hospital, one of the young gentlemen, or I believe, Mr. Key, brought me a woman who had a chronic tumour of the breast. On examining it, I per- ceived a slight fluctuation, and stated that most probably it con- tained matter, but was told, in reply to this observation, that it had existed for four or five months; I said, however, it did not signify—asked for a lancet—made a puncture into it, which let out a quantity of matter j and went away smiling. I merely mention to you these cases to put you on your guard : for I ha ve seen breasts removed, which were only chronic abscesses ; and thus, from an ignorance of this circumstance, you might put your patient to a cruel operation, where a small incision would have done. In the treatment of acute abscesses, the best medicine you can give is the liquor ammoniae acetatis, sulphate of magnesia, and opium ; six oz. of the first, one oz. of the second, and a drachm of the tincture of opium, of which the dose is three or four table- spoonfuls three times a-day. By this medicine you lessen irrita- tion, and expedite the suppurative and ulcerative processes : no medicine that I have observed, under such circumstances, gives so much relief. The sulphate of magnesia prevents any costive- nc53 from the opium, and the opium tranquillizes the nervous system, and lessens pain. The local treatment consists in the application of fomentations and poultices ; and why, you may ask, use both these remedies'? To promote heat and moisture; a greater quantity of blood Ls sent to the part, and a relaxation of the vessels takes place ; this expedites the suppurative process, and that being done, the ulcerative process takes place with more ease. The kind of poultice to be applied to the part is of little