618 ON DISLOCATIONS. tendons of the subscapularis and teres minor were tom through in attempting to reduce it, and caused the death of the patient. Although dislocations generally arise from violence, and are accompanied by laceration of the ligaments of the joint, yet they sometimes happen from relaxation of the ligaments only. This is especially likely to occur where there has been an abundance of synovia secreted, which must have the effect of distending the capsule, thereby weakening the articulation. The patella is sometimes dislocated from this cause. If muscles are put and kept long upon the stretch, their power of contraction is in a great measure lost; or, if from paralysis, they lose their action, a bone may be easily dislocated and reduced as quickly. A per- son had his arm kept powerfully upon the stretch for an hour, by way of punishment, whilst on board a ship in the East Indies, and he could luxate and reduce his shoulder at pleasure. Dislo- cations frequently arise from ulcerations of the joints, by which the ligaments are detached, and the bones become altered in their relation to each other—this frequently happens in the hip. There is a preparation in the museum, of the knee dislocated by ulceration, and anchylosed at right angles with the femur. Dis- locations are sometimes accompanied with fracture. At the ankle joint a dislocation seldom occurs without fracture of the fibula. Sometimes the acetabulum is broken in dislocations of the hip-joint. When a bone is both fractured and dislocated, it is best to reduce the dislocation without loss of time, taking care that the fractured part be strongly bandaged in splints, to prevent any injury being done to the muscles ; for, if this be not done at first, it cannot afterwards, without, in all probability, disuniting the fracture. Dislocations are sometimes partial, at other times complete. The ankle is often partially dislocated, res'ing partly on the astragalus, and in part on the os naviculare. The os humeri is sometimes thrown forward against the coracoid process, resting upon the edge of the glenoid cavity. Young persons, and persons advanced in life, have more frequently fractures than dislocations. I have known a dislocation of the hip-joint occur in a child nine years old; but these accidents are very rare; what are generally described as cases of dislocaiiou arise usually from ulceration, as I explained to you when speaking of disease in the hip-joint. A compound dislocation is that in which the articulating surfaces are not only displaced, but hi'which there is also a division of the integuments and capsular ligament, by which the cavity of the joint is laid open. It is generally at-