ON THE CURE OF HYDROCELE. 203 LECTURE XXIV. On the Cure of Hydrocele. Hydrocele is not cured by the accidental bursting of the sac ; when this takes place, it is followed by a temporary cessation of the hydrocele, which either returns again, or is succeeded by htematocele. A gentleman who had been subject to hydrocele for many years went to the continent, and whilst riding out on horseback, struck himself against the pommel of the saddle ; for several hours afterwards the swelling became considerable; dif- fused instead of circumscribed ; absorption however, soon took place ; the swelling gradually lessened, ^nd the gentleman thought that his hydrocele was cured, in fact he congratulated himself on it. Not long after this the swelling returned, and when he came to England, he called on me, and I performed the operation for hydrocele ; which presented nothing peculiar. An- other case of the bursting of a hydrocele occurred in the person of Dr. Saunders, of the other hospital, a person well knov/n in the profession. While standing on a chair to reach a book, he slipped his foot, by which means he received a blow on the scro- tum, which was enlarged from a collection of water in it. Mr. Lucas, late surgeon of Guy’s, who had been in the habit of tap- ping him for this complaint, was sent for immediately after the accident, to perform the operation again ; the swelling was very large, and Mr. Lucas, not at all suspecting that the character of the complaint was changed, put a trocar into the scrotum, but no water came, which alarmed the doctor considerably. A consul- tation was held, at which many of the most eminent professional men of this town were present; the scrotum was swollen and hairder than natural, blood was extravasated into the tunica vagina- lis ; it was determined to attempt to relieve the swelling and ecchy- mosis by stimulant lotions, but these failing, an incision was then made into the scrotum when there was found some coagulable blood ; which had been substituted for the water. Thus then a blow on a scrotum affected with hydrocele will change that disease into hsematocele, which can be afterwards cured by an inci- sion. 'Die cure of hydrocele is effected in three ways ; 1st, by