ON INFLAMMATION. o 2 K) is excessive, and there is a tingling sensation m the parts to which the nerve is distributed. Wounds of nerves, though e.vtremely painful at the moment, are followed by little irritation. Case.—The wife of a medical gentleman was obliged to have the posterior tibial nerve divided, for a painful tumour on the nerve, which I did in the presence of Mr. White, surgeon to tire Westminster Hospital; although the operation was dreadfully painful, and the pain extended through the brain, spinal marrow, and the nerves proceeding from it, yet it did not^affect the nerves of the great sympathetic, directly or indirectly. I have also had occasion twice to remove portions of the sciatic nerve, when but little constitutional irritation followed. Severe pain takes place sometimes in the course of the nerves, but whether it be from in- flammation or not, I have not been able to ascertain by dissec- tion. When the pain is excessive, it is called tic doloureux. Ligaments, like tendons, are not very prone to inflammation in healthy constitutions; but the synovial membrane which lines them is highly so, and the inflammation has a tendency to go on to the suppurative process. In scrofulous persons, the synovial surface becomes inflamed, and the ligament covering it thickened, so as to produce great enlargement of the joints. Cartilage in joints ulcerates from inflammation, and often becomes entirely destroyed. The bones, like other parts of the body, are subject to inflam- mation ; and when fractured, it is by this process that their union is effected. Suppuration, ulceration, and mortification, or the death of the bone, also attack this structure ; thus you see that, like other parts of the body, it is subject to the different processes of inflammation. Serous membranes, when inflamed, are remarkably disposed to pass into the adhesive inflammation ; whilst mucous mem- branes, on the contrary, generally go into the suppurative state. Mr. Hunter made several experiments to confirm these facts, which have been verified by later physiologists. Inflammation may be of the healthy or unhealthy kind. IVo wound can be restored without the former ; even the small punc- ture made in bleeding would inevitably de.stroy life, were it not • for this salutary principle ; a slight inflammatory action tlirows out upon the edges of the wound adhesive lymph, by which they become permanently united. When a ligature is put upon a large axu;ry, unless mtiamiiiation supervened, no good eft'ect would be produced. 'Tlie first thing nature does in this case is,