280 OH l.VfL'vVI.UATloX OF Til E'COHJUNCTIV™ the degree of stimulus which may be required. To judge how far tlie stimulus may be carried, the criteiion is exceedingly simple; if you find that a certain degree of smarting and pain is pro- duced, which soon subsides, and leaves the patient much more easy tlian before, you may be convinced that the collyrium is beneficial; if, on the other hand the patient experiences a great degree of pain, which does not subside speedily, and the vessels become turgid, you may be assured that the collyrium is doing harm, and tliat the quantity of stimulus ought to be diminished. The best mode of applying an eye-wash of this kind is to inject it by means of a silver or ivory syringe, introduced under the lids every two or three hours. In this way you may be cer- tain that the solution is diffused over the whole surface of the conjunctiva. An eye-cup will answer the purpose very well, if the patient, after immersing his eye in the cup, has the courage to open it. The syringe, however, is a more manageable in- strument. Mr. Ware recommended, a chronic opthalmia, what in the old pharmacopoeias used to be called tinctura the- baica. The vinum opii will answer the same purpose, and seems to be one of the best stimuli which can be employed in chronic ophthalmia; it acts as a mild astringent, and, at the same time, by its soothing quality, sheathes the effect of the stimulus, so that no pain is produced. It may be right, in speaking of collyria, to say that I have found patients able to bear them stronger when the chill is taken - off from them ; the warmth of the application seems to take away the pain, while the effect remains the same. The vinum opii may be employed in the quantity of one drop, or even of two or three drops, two, three, or four times a-day. It will be best to drop it into the in- ner canthus of the eye, with a camel-hair pencil; the patient should then shut his eye, and move it about, so that the fluid may be diffused over the whole surface. I have seen this appli- cation used two or three times a-day, and in the case of children, sometimes only once a-day, with the most decided benefit. There is another circumstance which should be attended to in the treatment of chronic ophthalmia, namely, not to exclude the light so much as in acute ophthalmia. If the pa- tient can bear a moderate degree of light, it should be freely admitted. He should wear no bandages, and have no other protection than a shade. Continued darkness and heat are very apt to keep up a morbid state of sensibility and irri-