ON POISONS. 477 destroyed. It renders the patient, at an early period of the com- plaint, incapable of being roused, so great is the depressing in- tiuence on the nerves. Many of the morbid poisons act directly on the arterial sys- tem ; as, for e.xample, small-pox : here inflammation is first pro- duced, which is succeeded by fever, the suppurative process, considerable local irritation, and the secretion of matter capable of propagating the disease ; other morbid poisons, as measles, for example, first affect particular parts, and afterwards the en- tire system : in measles we first see the conjunctiva inffamed ; then the mucous membrane of the nose becomes affected, pro- ducing an increased secretion of that part; then the trachea and bronchia become similarly influenced, and at length the lungs, giving rise to a troublesome cough, and about that lime the fever occasioned by the disease becomes general throughout the system. The afTeclion of measles is so easily communicated, and the in- fectious matter so subtle, that it readily floats in the air, and is of so infectious a nature, that it generally runs through entire towns and villages, where any portion of the children become affected by it; the air is likewise capable of communicating the disease to the inhabitants of distant parts. But the most infec- tious of all the diseases with which 1 am acquainted, is that called mumps. If this disease makes its appearance in a school, more than half the children will become affected by it. I was some years ago attending a patient at Hackney, with Mr. Toul- min, at a school where there were more than sixty scholars, some of whom at the lime were afflicted with the mumps. At a sub- sequent period, I inquired of Mr. Toulrain how many of the scholars had been attacked by it; and he informed me, thirty-six or thirty-seven; so that it had attacked considerably more than half. Poisons diminish in effect by repetition ; opium, therefore, if given for any considerable time, will lose its influence, if the quantity be not increased. Now morbid poisons, by repetition, likewise lose their influence. It very rarely happens that any gentleman passes through his apprenticeship at the hospital without being affected with the hospital fever, and it not unfre- rpiently happens that the first attack is fatal, and more particu- larly so to young men who are fresh from the country, who have been accustomed to a fine wholesome air : it generally com- Kicnces by head-ache, and which is succeeded by fits of shivering.