ON VIIIULENT GONOURHCEA 610 )’ver since I first began to lecture, I have always denominated that stricture of the urethra, which is produced, as it were, by a piece of cord tied round it, the corded stricture. Another, that is produced as if by the tying of a broad band, the ribbon stric- ture ; for it frequently extends a considerable distance, even the entire way, from the bulb to the prostate. There is another spe- cies of stricture, occasioned by a membranous band running across the urethra. [Preparations, showing these varieties, were handed to the students, and passed round the theatre.] The Cause of Pebmanent Stbicture of the UREruRA is in- flammation of the chronic kind : this occasions a greater determi- nation of blood to the part, and produces a deposition of adhesive matter on the outer side of the urethra; the urethra itself becomes thickened, which, together with being pressed upon by the ad- hesive matter collected in the interstitial spaces surrounding the urethra, produces the stricture in question. As to the manner in which stricture is produced, I am opposed, on this point, to Mr. Hunter, one of the grefatest surgical autho- rities that ever lived; and, if asked what was the cause of stric- ture, I should say, in ninety-nine cases out of every hundred, it was the result of gonorrhoea. It is quite true, that children, on whom not the slightest suspicion of their having gonoirhoea could fall, occasionally have stricture. I have lately met with a case of this description, and it was caused by the child having received an injury when on horseback; but still I would say, that in ninety- nine cases out of every hundred stricture is the result of neg- lected gonorrhoea, riding, or drinking hard, or any excess when the patient is labouring under that complaint. Treatment of Permanent Stricture.—'There are three principal objects to be attended to ; the first of which is, to cure the com- plaint by dilatation ; the second, by absorption ; and the third, to destroy it altogether. The first is effected by mechanical means j the second, by the influence of medicines; and the third, burn- ing it away by means of caustic. The first, or, cure by diiaia- tion, is accomplished by means of bougies ; these are of various sizes, and made of either wax, elastic gum, catgut, or silver, catheters are also sometimes employed, and answer the purpose tolerably well. Now, with respect to wax bougies, before introducing them into the urethra, you should always warm them by the file, lor