FOLLOWED BY INFLAMMATION. 152 mation of the brain is occasionally postponed to three cr four weeks after the accident occurs, and even then, the patient is not always safe. I will give you a case relating to this subject: Dr. Babing- ton and myself were sent for to see a person, a clerk to the firm of Whitbread and Company, who, whilst riding on horseback, struck his head against the branch of a tree : he being a short- sighted man, and riding very fast at the time, struck himself vio- lently against the bough of a tree which was overhanging the road, and was brought to the ground by the force of the blow. He was taken to Croydon, where Dr. Babington and myself visited him. We found that he had been struck on the os frontis, just above the frontal sinuses, where there was a depression : and this was the first case in which I witnessed emphysema of the fonhead produced by blowing the nose. We took all possible care of the case, bled him, regulated his diet, &c., till the inflammation had subsided. He came to town three weeks after the accident, when he asked whether he might go to Rochester, to spend a little time with some friends, who were anxious for him to come. We told him, that he might, if he would pay attention to himself, keep his bowels open, and regulate his diet. After the lapse of a week he became extremely ill, inflammation of the brain came on, and he died. On inquiry, we found that he had neglected the direc- tions given him, and allowed his bowels to get costive. It is al- ways a very serious case when there is a depression on the fore- head after an accident, and I will mention to you an instance of this kind, which will shew you the necessity of enjoining on a pa- ient with this injury strict attention to his mode of living. A man who had received a wound in the forehead from a pistol-shot, came to this hospital: the wound healed kindly, but the depres- sion remained. Whenever this man indulged in the use of spirit- uous liquors, he used to come back with violent pain in the head, whfch was always relieved by blood-letting. As to the treatment of inflammation of the brain, it is the same as for inflammation generally, wt'i this exception only, that blood should be drawn from the temporal artery in adults, and the jugular vein in children. Whenever inflammation of the brain attacks a grown person, take blood from the temporal artery; and when young individuals, from the jugular vein; by these means you abstract blood more readily from the part. Even iu adults you may, after opening the temporal artery, if the symp- toms bo not relieved, bleed from the jugular vein. In addition