ON lUniTATION. I I it having proved ineffectual, it was considered incurable. At length, one of the teeth opposite the wound becoming painful, it was extracted, when, to the delight and astonishment of the patient his malady disappeared. These cases are mentioned, to show the importance of endeavouring to ascertain the causes of diseased sym- pathetic actions, as the removal of those effects will depend on the cure of their causes. If the causes be undiscovered, the effects are likely to continue in spite of every means that you may employ. The constitutional or general effects of irritation are frequently produced by the most trivial local causes. A person on having a bougie passed into the urethra for the first time, feels faint, becomes sick, looks pale, and, unless you prevent it, will fall on the ground. On placing him in the recumbent posture, he soon recovers his senses; constitutional irritation frequently comes on in the evening which, however, soon ceases. From the irritation of the urethra you see, gentlemen, that the stomach is influenced, the actions of the heart are suspended, and the powers of the mind gone. The symptoms of constitutional irritation following injuries are best ex- emplified in compound fractures. In these cases, the irritation runs very high, and the heart, brain, and stomach are much affect- ed. A person receives an injury to the leg, producing compound fracture of one or both bones; constitutional irritation commences generally in twenty-four hours; the patient complains of pain in his loins, extending up the spinal cord, and pain in the head. He then becomes restless, and his countenance anxious; the tongue at first is dry, and covered with a whitish fur; but, as the symptoms increase, it becomes yellow, and lastly coated with a thick brown fur. There is loss of appetite, the stomach becomes irritable, and nausea and vomiting supervene. The secretions are dimininished and the stools are white. As the severity of the complaint in- creases, the pulse becomes quick, hard, irregular, and alternately intermittent. The respiration is hurried, intellect deranged ; all impressions on the senses are painful ; subsultus tendinum, hic- cough, vomiting, and tension of the abdomen come on; the patient sinks into a low muttering delirium, and soon expires. Thus, in constitutional irritation, whether from injury or disease, every part of the system is affected by it, and this effect appears to be produced in the following manner.—When any part of the body receives an injury, the nerves convey to all the important organs of the body, spmal marrow, heart, stomach, &c., an impression of that injury. Nature immediately commences the restorative process, by stop-