ON HERNIA. 222 as the stooping position in lifting heavy weights from the ground. If the person using such exertions is in a relaxed state of body, hernia is very often the result. On the Treatment of Reducible Hernia. With respect to the treatment of this complaint, gentlemen, it is only necessary to say, that a person who has a hernia, and does not wear a truss, is never for a moment safe. The danger of the hernia is greater in proportion to the smallness of its size. If the hernia be large, it is more readily returned into the abdomen : it is rarely strangfulated ; and if strangulated it is more easily reducible. If the hernia be very small, the ring through which it passes being extremely narrow the protruded parts are very tightly embraced, the hernia is very liable to strangulation and in this state is rarely reducible. The danger of hernia is, therefore, in the inverse ratio to its size ; and if a person should say to you, “ I have got a small hernia, but I do not think it of any consequence,” desire him to wear a truss ; and tell him that the smaller his hernia the more necessary it is that he should wear one. Various kinds of trusses, some of them very ingenious, have been invented at different periods; they may all, however be re- duced to four. The common truss is a very good one, and is, perhaps a little too much despised because it is old. This truss, in general an- swers tlie purpose extremely v/ell: it does not require an under- strap ; and it has this advantage, that it may be worn in the night as well as during the day. The mode of its application is merely to place it on the side of the hernia, and bring it round the body ; and if you use an understrap, this should be brought between the thighs. (The learned lecturer exhibited to the class the mode of applying this and the other species of trusses.) I do not know whether I may not have a little affection for this kind of truss; for, to say the truth, when I was about sixteen or seventeen years of age, upon hearing a lecture on hernia in this theatre, I discoveied that I was myself the subject of that complaint. As soon as I felt satisfied of this fact, I could attend to no more of the lecture; but I went home, threw myself on the bed, kept my legs elevated against the bed posts, and re- mained in that position till Mr. Cline returned. (A latigh.) I had requested to see him the moment he entered j and as mod as I saw him 1 tolii him that I had had a swelling for some tim^