SCROlULOUS DISEASES OF JOINTS. 603 complains of pains in the joints, which is accompanied with stiff- ness also, and inability to move them. The patient takes alarm ; and I mav say that this disease can never be too early attended to. The complaint may generally be removed if it be attacked early : but, if six weeks or two months elapse before the person applies, he will never recover. A great deal, therefore, depends, in this complaint, on early treatment. To prevent mischief is infinitely better than to effect a cure, and in these complaints a cure is not so easily effected. There is little tenderness at first, and the swelling is very slight. If the synovial membrane be iniiamed, there will be a gritting between the bones under the patella on each side, and so in different parts according to the joints affected. The joint will remain in this state for some time, possess the same appearance as in health, and the consti tuiion suffers little. But where it has existed a long time the suppurative process will at last be set up, and the joints will assume the character common to inflammation of all joints. When the suppurative process commences a great quantity of pus is secreted, if there be much constitutional irritation. Indeed, there maybe at first a copious secretion and slight constitutional derangement; for the suppurative process is not attended with the same constitutional effects as in other parts of the body. When the abscess breaks (which is a long time from the com- mencement of the disease), the ulceration is often at a little distance from the joint, and there are generally sinuses extending from the point of ulceration, for two or three inches up to the joint; and thus, in scrofulous enlargements of the knee, the abscess generally breaks above or below the patella. W'e gene- rally let these abscesses open by themselves, as there is little constitutional irritation at first, and the opening cannot be de- layed too long. The abscesses generally open in more parts than one, and the suppurative process takes place at a distance from the joint; the ulcerative process is slow, and excites little constitutional irritation. When you dissect a joint affected with scrofulous disease, you find, after having cut through the integuments, that there is a great deal of adeps between the ligaments and interstices of the skin. Next you will see the capsular ligament thickened, and that the thickening has taken place on its interior surface. The synovial membrane will be also found highly vascular. You now examine the cartilages, when you will find that they have undergone more or less ulce- ration, and are covered by processes of adhesive matter; and,