524 INFLAMMATION OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. thus the end of the instrument will be rising perpendicularly, as it were, behind the pubes. These, then, are the means you are to employ to obtain a cor- rect diagnosis. Now, with regard to the cause of retention of urine, in those cases of enlargement of the prostate, where the disease exists in the third lobe, it generally arises from the urine having been allowed to remain in the bladder for too long a period, thus collecting in so large a quantity that the swollen lobe is pressed forward against the mouth of the urethra, and thus closes the entrance to that canal. With regard to the causes of enlargement of the prostate, it is often the result of libidinous age; old people frequently feel a greater degree of excitement than the constitution is capable of supporting, and disease is the consequence ; powerful excitement is by no means desirable for aged individuals. I shall next proceed to consider the Treatment of Enlarged Prostate.—Very little can be effected here by medicine ; it is a disease over which medicines have but very slight influence ; you may, however, give the oxymuriate of mercury in very small quantities, for I believe I have seen it be- neficial. But this is the treatment only for the enlargement of the gland. Well, but when retention of urine takes place, what plan of treatment are you to adopt then ? When no urine what- ever can be passed, and when there is great pain at the neck of the bladder, why, you must take blood from the arm, apply leeches to the perinreum, administer purgatives, and put the pa- tient into a warm bath. If these means should succeed in procuring relief, the best medicine that can afterwards be given for the purpose of prevent- ing a return of the retention, and at the same time of lessening the inconvenience which sometimes attends the complaint, is composed of fifteen drops of the liquor, potassae, five drops of bals. copaib. and an ounce and and a half of mist, camphor. If you give fifteen or twenty drops of the balsam, it then produces a stimulating effect, and does harm ; administer it in the quantity I have just mentioned to you, in conjunction with the other me- dicines, to which you may add 3ij- Mucilag. Gu Acac.—I was attending with Dr. Key, a gentleman from the country having this disease, and in whom it proved a source of much annoy- ance : we at fiist gave him ten drops of the balsam, with the olhei medicines: this quantity, however, was found too stimu-