604 ON VIHUI.F.N7 GONORRirCEA. a first clap it is better to begin with the liquor, plumbi Subace- tatis dilutus in the first instance, because this is less irritating, and afterwards to use it in combination with the sulphate of zinc. The treatment which is necessary to subdue inflammation in a first clap is, in general, entirely unnecessary in subsequent claps. Various other injections are employed in the treatment of gonor- rhoea ; half a grain of the sulphate of copper in an ounce of rose water is a powerful injection ; a solution of the oxymuriate of mercury makes a very irritating injection, if of any strength, and should not be resorted to in the first instance. It is used in the proportion of one grain to twelve ounces of distilled water. You should feel your way in the use of irritating injections ; if they produce much inflammation, you should suspend the use of them ; and if, on the other hand, they excite no pain at all, you may gradually increase their strength. Do not continue the use of the same injection, if it does not answer the purpose very quickly ; for you will otherwise be only laying the foundation of stricture. It is much better to vary your injection, than to persist in the use of the same injection, if it does not very speedily put a stop to the discharge. It will often happen that a patient will continue for a length of time under the hands of his surgeon without getting rid of the discharge. If a patient should come to you under these circumstances, what I recom- mend you to do, is to begin immediately the use of bougies with injections. The use of bougies will increase the discharge for a time ; but, being combined afterwards with the use of an injec- tion of the sulphate of zinc, will generally succeed in effecting a cure. With respect to the number of times the patient should inject, three or four times a day will be quite sufficient. As to the strength of the injection, it should be increased so as to pro- duce a slight degree of irritation ; but it is better to vary the injection, than to increase iU strength in any great degree. There are other means of curing gonorrhoea, by producing a change in the action of the urethra, as, for instance, by the use of cubebs. I remember the time when this remedy was much ridiculed, but there is now no surgeon of the least experience who does not acknowledge that it is a very powerful remedy in this disease. The value of this remedy may be known by apply- ing to any merchant with respect to it. A short time ago it was introduced into this country in very small quantities; but now, such is its acknowledged efficacy, that whole shiploads of it are