ON THE DIFFERENT AMPUTATIONS. ■4.50 when we found the nerves forming the axillary plexus blended together, and forming a large substance like a common ganglion. 'I'his had produced the tumour on the inner side of the arm, and the spasmodic affections of the muscles. Some time after a boy came into the other hospital who had had his limb amputated below the knee. The operation had been well performed by Sir Charles Blicke ; a good stump was left, and the boy was dis- charged, as cured, from St. Bartholomew’s ho.spital. Within a few months he came back, complaining of great irritation at the extremity of the stump, which had become conical; the extre- mity of the bone was sawed off, and he was discharged a second time, apparently doing well. Soon after, however, the bone be- came again conical, and extremely irritable ; he was brought into the other hospital, and, believing that there might be a swelling flt the extremity of the popliteal nerve, which produced effects similar to those in the former case, I made an incision into the ham, sawed off the bone at the back part of the stump, and re- moved a portion of the nerve, which was swollen to the size of the extremity of the finger. Mr. H. Cline has since removed a similar ganglions substance in a person whose stump became conical and extremely irritable. In all such cases it will be right to saw off the bone so as to lay bare the extremity of the nerve, and remove that portion which has become enlarged; above the knee the sciatic nerve will be affected; below the knee the josterior tibial. The French, in performing the operation of amputation at the shoulder joint, make a flap before and behind the joint; we do not do this, but I do not mean to say that their mode is not quite as good as ours. 7’here is no necessity for the tourniquet in this operation ; a finger may be put on the artery while you are making the flap, but even this is unnecessary, for all that is required is to divide the artery last and put your finger Upon it at the moment of dividing it. Place the patient in a chair ; slit up the deltoid muscle, and introducing the knife, make a flap from the head of the os humeri; it is belter not to make the other incision through the integuments, until you have dislocat- ed the head of the bone from the socket. The next thing you have to do is to cut into the joint, dividing the capsular ligament; the head of the bone is easily dislocated from the socket. Carry the knife in a circular direction, and put your finger upon the artery while you are turning the head of the bone from the socket. The axillary artery is the only one which requires to be secured ;