8 ON lURITATION. State, blaming and abu^ug his more fortunate rival. In conclu- sion, let me say, that if any of you wish to ask my advice or as- sistance in any way, I shall be most happy if you will call on me whenever you think proper. I do not say this from ostenU- tion, but I always wish to show the junior members of the pro- fession that I do not forget the friendship I have experienced from their fathers. LECTURE I. Irritation. This being one of the most important topics in surgery requires to be attentively studied, and its effects carefully watched, before any one can practise in his profession with credit to himself or advantage to others. Irritation is either local or general, and its effects are com- municated from one part to another, through the medium of the nervous system, so that the heart, brain, and stomach, almost im- mediately after an injury has been sustained, even in the remotest parts of the body, will have their functions more or less disturbed in proportion to the extent of the injury and importance of the part injured. All the actions of the body are excited and sus- tained by internal and external impressions, which are called stimulants; the blood, for instance, being the stimulus to the blood-vessels; the bile, to the intestines; and caloric, in a cer- tain degree, a stimulus to the whole system. Between all the different parts of the human frame there exists intimate relations, which correspond with each other, and carry on a reciprocal in- tercourse of action. The beautiful harmony produced by these concurrent phenomena is called sympathy. Thus, impressions not only produce effects on the part to which they are directly applied; but in consequence of the freedom of communication between the nervous system, parts of the body, situated at a dis- tance from those in which the original mischief exists, become af- fected by it: the real nature of sympathy is yet unknown, but we are acquainted with many of its effects. Thus numerous exam- ples of sympathetic actions may be adduced; the communication which exists between the uterus and breasts is a striking instance of it. Sneezing is a S3unpathetic action between the nose, velum pnlati, and the abdominal muscles; coughing, also breathing, and the expulsion of the fmces, are a few among the numerous examples which might be enumerated.