ON FISTULA IN ANO. 423 his symptoms, and it appeared that he had petechiae, and that his gums occasionally bled. I gave him bark with citric acid, and, as his health improved under this treatment, the matter was absorbed, and the swelling entirely disappeared. The next subject of this evening’s lecture is one which some of you may think scarcely worth your attention, and with the treat- ment of which you may imagine that you are fully acquainted ; the complaint to which I allude is Fistula in Ano. This is a disease In which you will be called upon to operate more frequently, perhaps, than in any ot.her. I do not think it a disease which is very easy to treat; it very often baffles the skill of the best surgeons. A fistula in ano 'will hardly ever heal of itself, after the operation is performed, without the utmost attention on the part of the surgeon. The Sphincter ani is the source of the difficulty in this complaint; every time the patient has an evacuation, the contraction of the sphincter ani separates one side of the abscess from the other, and thus the process of adhesion and inosculation of the granulations is continually inter- rupted. Understanding this you will see that the principle of treatment, consists in the division of the sphincter ani; if you do not divide the sphincter, you had belter not attempt to treat the patient at ail. Fistula in ano is more painful than a common abscess j the pa- tient has excruciating pain in the evacuation of his fteces, dread- ful tenesmus, and very often retention of urine, the pressure of the matter preventing the passage of the urine through the uretnra. The causes of this disease are various; it Sometimes arises from a costive state of the body ; frequently from the pressure of hardened faeces passing through the intestines. It sometimes arises from absolutely opposite causes ; thus, fistula in ano is fre- quently the consequence of long-continued diarrhoea, producing irritation in the mucous membrane, which extends to the cellular tissue. It is often the result of some distant complaint; as dis- ease of the liver, or derangement of the alimentary canal, pro- ducing an accumulation of blood in the mesenteric vessels, and a congestion which is determined to the anus. Persons who lead a sedentary life, take little exercise, and feed highly, are parti- cularly subject to this disease. It is often the result of disease of the chest, and very commonly occurs at the close of phthisis pul. monalis. It is unnecessary, therefore, to inquire, whether the