108 ON GANGRENE. ample, scarlatina. In slight cases of scarlatina, the most horrible effects will sometimes arise from gangrene. The tonsils will slough to a great extent, parts of the Eustachian tube, and even the tympanum will separate, and large portions of bone exfoliate. The worst effects of this kind are observed in those cases of scar- latina where the fever is not the most violent. The measles are very apt to be followed by sloughing, unless great care be taken not to irritate the skin of the chest too much. In this town it sometimes happens, that a large blister applied to the chest of a child labouring under measles occasions a high degree of inflam- mation, producing gangrene, and endangering the life of the patient. In constitutions of an unfavourable kind, I have often seen the measles produce a slough forming a black aperture in the cheek of the child, through which its food was passed, and life soon destroyed. Mercury, if used to excess, often excites sloughing, from the fever and consequent debility of the con- stitution which it produces. Whatever, in short, weakens the constitution much, disposes it to the production of gangrene ; for the body, when thus debilitated, cannot bear any excess of action. When the application of cold is the cause of gangrene, the effects are produced very much in the same way. The power, of the part to which the cold is applied are diminished, and this diminution of power leads to the destruction of the part, under the first excess of action. There are some parts of the body naturally constituted fee- bly ; as for example, tendons. When inflammation attacks a tendinous structure, it runs very readily into a state of gangrene. Hence the danger of making incisions into a tendinous structure, which frequently affect the nervous system with the highest degree of irritability, and produce tetanic symptoms. It is not the injury to the nerves which produces tetanus, but the sympathy of the nerves with the injury to the tendon. It may be stated, as a general principle, that inflammation is the cause of gangrene; gangrene very rarely happens without inflammation; but as there are some exceptions to tliis general principle, I will mention them. I have seen, in a case of hydro- thorax a small spot in the legs become at once black, without any appearance of inflammation, and extend itself until it occu- pied a very large surface. Here the total absence of circulation, and not an increased degree of it, occasioned the destrucUon of life in the part. So we now and then see aneurism producing