ON TRACTURlib U* int» v she could rest her head, and support it vyith her lioods chin until the agitation produced by the shock had subsided. The child lived twelve months after the accident. Qn exami- ning the body after death, Mr. Cline found the atlas broken through ; there was a transverse fracture of the atlas, but no dis- placement. When she endeavoured to raise her head, the denti- form process quitted its natural situation, and carried back a por- tion of the adas ; when her head inclined forward, pressure was produced upon the spinal narrow, as it was likewise when the body was agitated. This is a curious instance of fracture oc- curring in the cervical vertebriE without displacement. With respect to the treatment of fracture, with displacement of the spine, nothing has hitherto been effectually done in surgery. Mr. Henry Cline was the first person who attempted to give relief in this accident. Being an excellent anatomist, and a most able surgeon, he saw no reason why cases of this kind should not be treated as cases of fracture with depression of the skull. Ac- cordingly he cut down upon the arch of the spinal marrow, where the compression was greatest, and with a small trephine of his own invention, he sawed through the arch of the spinous process, and took off the pressure on the spinal marrow, by raising the depres- sed portion of the arch. It is well known, that in cases of frac- ture where the displacement has been slight, union of the bone has been produced. There would be no difficulty in producing this union, supposing the pressure on the spinal marrow to be re- moved. There is a preparation in Mr. Brookes’s collection, from a case qf fracture with depression, where the person lived long enough for the fracture to be united ; and in the College of Sur- geons there is a preparation presented by Mr. Harold, of Ches- hunt, from a case where union of the bone took place after frac- ture with displacement. There is no danger, therefore, as to the restoration of the arch of the bone, if the pressure on the spinal marrow could be removed ; and it was with this view that Mr. Cline sawed through the arch. It is right, however, to mention, that in many of these cases the spinal marrow’s itself tom through. In some cases of fracture with displacement, it is com- pletely torn ; in others partially; and in some not at all. In cases where it has not been torn, there would be hope from such an operation ; and it is in these cases that the operation has been performed. Mr. Tyrrell has attempted the oepration since Mr. u