186 ON THE TYING OF ARTERIES. shape of a crescent, to the edge of Poupart's ligament, and then continue it to about an inch and a half from the inner side of the spine of the ilium, where it terminates. By this incision I lay bare the tendon of the external oblique muscle ; in the second 1 divide this tendon, and expose the internal oblique and trans- versalis muscles. Having arrived at this step of the operation, there will be no occasion to make any further use of the knife. 'J he next step will be to raise the internal oblique and transver- salis muscles from Poupart’s ligament, by introducing the finger behind them. Well, having done this, you reach the passage of the spermatic cord, and you feel it distinctly ; and then be- hind this the pulsation of the iliac vessel. You now draw up the internal oblique and transversalis muscles with the finger, at the same time elevating the spermatic cord a little, and then carry the finger into the abdomen, behind the peritoneum, and you ascer- tain the beating of the iliac artery. Having found the artery, I put the aneurismal needle into the opening, and introduce it un- der the vessel. You will recollect that the artery is accom- panied by a vein, and that the vein is on the inner side; the artery on the iliac, the vein on the pubic side; the operation may be performed without the least difficulty, and is as easy as tying the femoral artery ; there is only one circumstance that oc- casions the least danger; and that is the epigastric artery passes up from the pubic side of the iliac vessel, and on the inner side of the incision ; but this, however, may be avoided. I will clean the artery a little from the surrounding parts, and take it up; it is very desirable to ascertain that the vein is not secured, because the interruption to the return of blood would be very injurious; if the artery should be exposed as much as it is in the subject be- fore me (an inch and a half), two ligatures must be employed, but if a small portion only of the vessel is laid bare, a single tigature will be all that is required. When you use two ligatures, you will separate them from each other, drawing one upward, and the other downward, and leaving about three-quarters of an inch of the vessel exposed at the extremity of each ligature I for if this be not done, on divid'ug the artery, there will be danger of the ligature slipping off; the instrument with which the artery is usually divided is the probe pointed bistoury; when it is done, retraction of the vessel immediately takesq)lace ; there will be no danger of including the nerve in the ligature, as the anteriorcru- ral docs not accompany it; the vein and artery are included in