303 ON FIRM OR HARD CATARACT. differ in the different kinds of this disease, and this leads me to consider the different species of cataract; it is extremely im- portant that they should be kno^vIl, as the operation that it will be necessary to perform depends on the kind of cataract which exists j but it is to be observed that the criteria are, to say the best of them, very fallible. On looking' at a cataract, you cannot always be certain that it is of this or that kind, but on the whole you are enabled to give a pretty good guess. The symptoms cha- racterizing each kind will be spoken of under the different heads. Different Kinds of Cataract. There are four kinds of cataract: 1st, The hard or firm ca- taract ; 2d, The fluid or milky cataract; 3d, The soft or ca- seous cataract; and besides these, there is a fourth kind, the capsular cataract; the three first forming in fhe lens itself, and the last in the capsule. The last kind of cataract comes on after an operation, or in consequence of it, and is also found in children, when it is called congenital cataract. This kind of cataract does not differ essentially from the other forms of cap- sular cataract; but is called congenital, on account of it occur- ring at a particular period of life, or children being born with it. This form of cataract also requires a particular kind of opera- tion, and will be particularly spoken of. Of the lenticular cata- ract there are three kinds, the soft, fluid, and hard. These different kinds of cataract occur at different periods of life. It is stated that the firm or hard cataract is found in advanced age, while the soft occurs at an earlier period. There is one circum- stance respecting these different kinds of cataracts it will be proper to mention : that is, it is not at all common for one form to go into another—for the soft to go into the hard, for instance, is exceedingly rare. I allude to an opinion which used to prevail, that a soft cataract became hard, and then it was said to be ripe. This idea is now given up, and experience proves it to be incorrect. Let us now consider the different symptoms attending the different kinds of cataract. Firm on Hard Cataract. In this kind of cataract the lens acquires a greater degree of density or firmness than natural; and in undergoing this change, it becomes smaller and thinner, and more concentrated. If you look at the cataract, you will see that it ha^ not the n whiteness of that complaint; it has a yellow or browmsli