.^72 SYPHILITIC DISEASES OF THE BONES. I shall now proceed to describe to you the Syphilitic Diseases of the PEniosiEiiM, and Bones. The third effect of the syphilitic poison is on the periost.'um, and on the bones. It first attacks the periosteum, and the bones subsequently become affected. The cylindrical bones, which are most exposed to vicissitudes of temperature, are commonly first attacked j those which are much covered by muscles are rarely affected. The back part of the tibia, for instance, which is covered by muscles, is very rarely affected with nodes, though nothing is more common than to see venereal nodes on the shin bone, which is only covered with skin and periosteum. Some- times they are seated on the outer side of the tibia, towards the fibula: if they are seated on the fibula, it is where it is only slightly covered ; and if on the ulna, it is where it is covered only by skin and periosteum. Nodes on the os humeri, except on the outer side, are of a very rare occurrence. The symptoms oy which this disease is characterized, are as follow :—Some weeks after the chancre has healed, the patient experiences in the evening a sensation of pain in the bone, which is afterwards the seat of the node. This pain does not immediately produce a swelling, but, in the course of a few days, a swelling appiears in the evening, which disappears again on the following morn- ing. It is excessively tender and painful in the evening; but,in the morning, it is hardly perceptible ; there is scarcely any swell- ing or tenderness. At this time the periosteum only is affected ; but, when the inflammation has continued for some time longer, the bone is affected and soon becomes enlarged. I shall send you round two preparations, in which you may observe the thick- ening of the periosteum, and the enlargement of the bones pro- duced by syphilis. The first effect is an inflammation of the periosteum ; but, in a short time, a deposit takes place between it» and the surface of the bone ; this deposit is, in the first in- stante, only a serous fluid, but a cartilaginous substance is soon secreted, which is gradually converted into bone. Though, in the first instance, therefore, there is only an inflammation of the pe- riosteum, the fluid secreted in consequence of this inflammation is soon converted into an ossific enlargement. The treatment of this disease is not different from that which is necessary for the other symptoms of syphilis. Give the blue pill united with opium ; the compound decoction of sarsaparilla is sometimes ad- ded, with a view of preventing any disposition to irritability in tlie