288 ON PSOROPIITHALMY, fore recourse is had to mild astringent collyrla. Their strengtli must be regulated by the feelings of the patient; not so strong as to irritate, but to be followed by relief to the part affected. The vinum opii is a remedy particularly adapted to this complaint at an advanced stage : it tends considerably to lessen the irritability of the part, and to increase the strength of the relaxed vessels. At the onset, however, a more active plan of treatment must be adopted : relief must be sought by the application of leeches and blisters, more especially by the last. It will be necessary some- times to give mercury so as slightly to affect the mouth, remem- bering the state of the constitution in scrofulous persons, and taking great care that it is not pushed so far as to affect the gene- ral health. Another form of inflammation of the eyes, nearly allied to the one I have just been describing, because it is in general a conse- quence of it, is PsOROPHTH A LM Y, Psorophthalmy is an inflammation particularly of that part of the conjunctiva which lines the lids, but it extends sometimes over the whole of the conjunctiva covering the globe. This com- plaint is often obstinate, and extremely difficult of cure: it extends over the cornea, conjunctival lining of the palpebrae, the cheek and nose; and, lastly, the globe of the eye becomes affected, if this complaint be not checked. At the origin of this disease, there is a glutinous matter secreted on the edge of the lids ; ulcers form j and there is often great difficulty in sepa- rating the lids from one another. P>y this means matter lodges on the lids, and tends to keep up the irritation of the whole of the part. You not unfrequently see the redness extending down the whole of the cheek, and excoriation taking place on the cuticle. If the inflammation spreads over the whole of the conjunctiva, the lachrymal sac becomes irritated, and effusion of tears over the surface of the cheek takes place- The inflammation is of the atonic kind, accompanied with that symptom distinguishing strumous ophthalmia, intolerance of light, and a feel as if there were some extraneous body in the eye, grit or sand, which gives rise to an effusion of the tears. The lids are very red on the edges, and there is an incrustation of matter on them. There is occasiona’.ly a contraction of the integument of the lower lid, by which it becomes depressed and everted. In this inflammation the secretion deposited from the