247 ON HERNIA, hernia which contains tlie coecum^ this gut sometimes descends into an inguinal hernia of the right side, and on dissection you find that it adheres to the posterior surface of the scrotum. The coecum is not enclosed in fire hernial sac, but the hernial sac is before it. Those who have studied the anatomy of the viscera know that the coecum is confined posteriorly by cellular mem- brane, and that the peritoneum passes over it anteriorly. On the posterior surface of the coecum there is no peritoneum, unlike, in this respect to the other intestines, with the exception of the duo- denum and colon. When the coecum, therefore descends it brings down the peritoneum in front; but behind there is mere- ly cellular membrane, by which means it is confined to the scro- tum so securely, that it is impossible, in many cases to return it j then the stricture must be divided, and the intestine allowed to remain.. Last summer many of you had an opportunity of see- ing this kind of hernia operated on by Mr. Key ; .the patient did extremely well. 1 have never operated on a case of this kind myself, but have dissected it, and 1 always found the intestine ad- hering to the back of the scrotum, the same as when the bladder 13 m an inguinal hernia. When the bladder protrudes in a her- nia, it is covered anteriorly by peritoneum, but posteriorly it is confined by cellular membrane, the same as the ccECum. When the coecum is included in a hernia, it will be known by the appen- dix c(cci vermiformis. Treatment of the Omentum.—W'jth regard to the omentum after the operation for strangulated hernia, it is more easy to treat than intestine. If the quantity of omentum be small, and little changed in character, you must return it to the mouth,of the hernial sac, so as 10 seal up the opening : if the omentum is only returned to this part, it glues the sides of the mouth together, and prevents the ready descent of hernia in future. This then is the plan you are to pursue with the omentum, when it is small and its charac- ter little changed. But it often happens that a considerable portion of the omen- tum descends. When this is the case, the omentum is not thin and fine as m its natural state, but the different layers unite and form a solid mass. Here are two specimens (exhibiting them to the class,) in which large portions of omentum had descended. The plan that you are to adopt under these circumstances, is to remove a large [lart of the omentum bv the knife, and return the