ox DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 371 break in this way as in the ovarium ; one cyst bursts, another re- mains unopened ; they are distinct; so in the breast, they are divided into different bags; but one or two ulcerate and suppu- rate, which communicate with the rest, and then the breast gra- dually wastes. I have never seen an instance of this affection cured by natural means; it remains for months and years, the cysts sometimes breaking one after another, and thus the breast wa.=ting, till little of it remains. It occurs at almost any period after puberty under twenty, and after fifty ; between fifty and sixty, and I have seen one case of it in a person above sixty. In persons under twenty I have met with several instances, and you more frequently see it in the young than in advanced age ; from fifteen to twenty-five more so thamafter that age. It sometimes acquires a most extraordinary magnitude. I ope- rated once on a lady from Northamptonshire for this complaint, and the breast weighed, I think, fourteen pounds. I am not quite sure as to the exact weight, but I know it was of an im- mense size. I operated lately on a lady not very far from my own house ; the removed breast weiglied thirteen pounds, and consist- ed of an immense number of cysts. I was to have operated on a patient this very day for this complaint, but not having time I was obliged to postpone the operation ; probably I shall do it to-morrow ; I will bring the removed part down with me, in order that you may be masters of the appearances which are pro- duced in the breast, under this state. A great many mistake this complaint for the malignant cyst; but he is extremely ignorant, gentlemen, who can mistake the one for the other; for the two diseases are very different in their character. Of the causes of this complaint we know nothing, nor of the production of tlfe cysts; these are points involved in obscurity. On dissection, the following are the appearances of a true hydatid breast : It con- tains a globular hydatid, the same as is met with in other parts of the body ; this produces a cyst, which becomes the parent of others, and when you open it, you see little ones growing from the internal membrane of the cyst. Many of you recollect that 1 opened an hydatid cyst in the thigh of a man at the other hos- pital a few months ago, and that a great number of small hyda- tid cysts were drawn off; I ordered some of them to be preserved ; the internal lining of the first cyst is like a utenis to the others ; these grow from it in spots here and there, and at last become pa- 2 B *