ON HERNIA. 227 In those cases in which the hernia is very large and irri- ducible, the best plan is to advise the patient to wear a laced sus. pensory bag, which, by its pressure on the scrotum, will nol only prevent the hernia from increasing, but will diminish its size by absorption. In this manner a bulky hernia may be rendered much less inconvenient to the patient. 1 liis, gentle- men, is all I have to communicate to you on the subject of irre- ducible hernia. With respect to wearing a truss in this state of hernia, if the patient should feel any pain, it will not be advisable. If a truss be worn in irreducible hernia, the spring should be very slight, so as to occasion no pain; otherwise there will be danger of strangulation. Strangulated Hernia, v I shall now proceed to consider the symptoms and treat- ment of strangulated hernia. A hernia is said to be strangulated, when it is not only confined within the part into which it has descended, but when it is so much compressed by the narrow part through which it has pas- sed, that the circulation in the intestine or omentum which has descended is in a great degree stopped. Some portion of blood is still capable of being carried to the part by the arteries, but it cannot be returned by the veins. It is a mistake to suppose that the hernia is merely incarcerated ; it is not only incarcerated, but it is so constringed by the narrow orifice through which it has passed, that the circulation in the intestine oi omentum is m a great degree impeded. With respect to the symptoms which accompany strangu- lated hernia, the patient first complains of pain about the re- gion of the diaphragm. He will describe the sensation to be as if he felt a cord bound tightly round the upper part of the stomach. The next sj-mptom is constant eructation, owing to the great quantity of air rising from the intestines to the stomach. The patient is next troubled with vomiting, accompanied with costiveness. He has a great disposition to have motions, but cannot succeed in his attemps to expel the faeces. There is some pain in the swelling, and a good deal at the part where the stric- ture is situated. These symptoms attend the first dawn of strangulation. The abdomen afterwards becomes considerably distended with air, not at first from inflammation, but in consequenca of the accu* 2 0