643 DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. very strong man. Next place him in a warm bath, at 100°, gradu- ally increase it to 110°, until he begins to feel faint. Whilst he is in the bath, give one grain of tartarized antimony, until he feels nausea; then wrap him in a blanket, and place him on a table, between two strong posts, into which two staples have been fixed; or, if you cannot find a'convenient place for this, place him on the floor, and screw two rings, about the distance 1 have mentioned, into the floor. The plan I usually adopt is, to place him on a table covered with a blanket, on his back; then a strong girt is passed between his pudendum and thigh, and this is fixed to one of the staples. A wetted linen roller should be applied just above the knee, and on this a leather strap is to be buckled, having two straps with rings at right angles with the circular part. The knee should be slightly bent, not quite at a right angle, and brought across the opposite thigh a little above the knee. The pullies are to be hooked to the rings on the circular strap, and fixed to the other staple. You should now tighten the pullies, till you see the bandage is on the stretch, and the patient begins to complain of pain : then wait a little, with the degree of extension you have now made, to give the muscles time to fatigue; then draw again gently, and, when the patient complains much, stop again, until the muscle^ yield; and so go on, until you find the head of the bone is brought just opposite the acetabulum. Let the same extension be kept up, by another person taking the string of the pullies ; and then rotate the limb gently, and the bone will generally slip into its place. You must not expect to hear a snap when the bone is returned, as, by using the pullies, the muscles are so much relaxed that they cannot act with sufficient violence ; and you can, therefore, only tell if it is reduced by loosening the bandages, and comparing the length of the limb. If there should be any difficulty in bringing the head of the bone over the edge of the acetabulum, you may pa.s3 your hand or a napkin under it, and lift it over the edge of the socket. You shou'd take great care in removing a patient to his bed, as, from the relaxed state of the muscles, the dislocation would again happen, anrl that from a cause so trifling that you would not suspect it to have occurred. I consider it the birth- right of every man to think and act for himself. Gentlemen, do not let your opinions be shackled by prejudice—do not follow implicitly the dictates of any man ; and, if, when you get into practice, you do thH find the advice which [ have given you on this, or any other subject, correct, then throw it aside, as totally 2 T U