INTRODUCTOUY LXCTl’RK. f) fracture, and had great hopes of saving the patient, as he was doing well; but a physician, wliilst going through the ward, visited him, and ordered a cathartic, which, acting rather vio- lently, disturbed him so much, that fatal consequences ensued. I'hat a physician should not interfere with patients of -this des- cription is therefore evident; but I do not mean to say that one profession is to be upheld at the expense of the other; far from it; indeed they should mutually assist in the great duty of pre- serving human existence. Reading will be found extremely useful, when it is select; but I would not recommend works to young students which lay down systems for their guidance; such a plan of reading is bad. It is better to read the detached works on particular diseases. To the pupils generally, but more particularly to those who are allowed to pass in this metropolis but one or two seasons in attending the different hospitals, I strongly recommend punctuality in their at- tendance at lectures, and at the dissections and hospital practice. In St. Thomas’s Hospital alone, you have an opportunity of seeing above 800 in-door, and a vast number of out-door patients, whose cases are equally useful as interesting to students. I caution the pupils from speaking unguardedly before the patients ; it can do no good to let them know what is intended for their cure, which it very often prevents. Some time ago a man came into Guy’s Hospital, having a disease that required an operation, and by no means a dangerous one. A pupil, when conversing with him, asked him where he came from : the man replied, “ From Corn- wall.” “ O, did you 1” said the pupil; “ Well, I can tell you, you will never see Cornwall again.” The patient became alarmed, and immediately left the hospital. I recommend to you, also, the practice of taking notes, but not hasty ones, as they do more harm than service, by causing one term to be mistaken for another. I am happy to bear witness to the great improvement wliich has taken place, of late years, in the education of those who are coming forward in the various classes of medical pupils; tiiis I consider a most essential advantage, as it tends, more than any ether circumstance, to raise the character of the profession to its proper station. To the company of Apothecaries, society is niuch indebted, as to them we owe the Act which makes a cer- tain course of education indispensable to medical students. In the metropolis, surgeons, of course, are highly respected, but not