76 ON GRANULA ON. LECTURE XI. On Granulation. I HAVE endeavoured, to describe to you the first mode in which the union of wounds, and the mode of filling up cavities is ef- fected, namely, by the process of adhesion. I shall now pro- ceed to consider the other mode of union between divided parts of the body, namely. Granulation ; thus the two processes which Nature institutes for the purpose of filling up the cavities of the body for the cure of wounds are adhesion and granulation. If you are asked for a definition of the term granulation, you will say that a granulation is a newly-formed part, generally red in colour, and having the power of secreting pus. The mode in which granulation is produced is as follows ;—and you will find it very similar to adhesion, but differing from that process in one respect. When an abscess has been opened, or when a wound has been produced, if the abscess be not immediately closed, or if the edges of the wound have not been brought together, inflam- mation is excited, and this inflammation occasions an effusion of the fibrin of the blood upon the surface of the wound. This fibrin is poured out in a layer which covers the surface of the wound. The layer of fibrin soon becomes vascular, for blood-vessels, which are elongations of the rasa vasorum of the divided vessels, are forced by the action of the heart into the fibrin which has been deposited, and this layer consequently becomes vascular. The difference between the mode of union by adhesion and by granu- lation, is, that in the latter the vessels shoot to the surface of the layer which has been thrown out, terminating by open mouths on the surface of the newly-formed substance, and secreting pus, at the same time that a layer of lymph or fibrin, as it is more cor- rectly termed is effused. The fibrin which is poured out, besides this purulent secretion from the vessels, forms a second layer, in- to which the vessels shoot as before. The vessels supporting the first layer are the means of supporting the second layer, where the vessels terminate, as before, by open mouths on the surface of the substance effused. In this manner layer after layer is formed until the cavity becomes filled. The characters by which granulations are distinguished are these : their surfaces are uneven ; they are generally red in colour, and they secrete matter. I know not whether you have followed