605 SCROFULOUS DISEASES OF JOINTS. Rhubarb, and the submuriate of mercury, ought to be given once a-day, or every second day. Suppose, however, that the disease advances, and is not subdued, it will be necessary to employ some Ax;al counter-irritant. Blisters, tartar emetic ointment, vinegar poultices, issues and setons, are the various means used for this purpose. If the joint suppurates, it will be best not to apply issues or setons close to the joint. Mr. Cline tried once to in- vestigate this point, and the result of his observation was, that if setons and blisters were employed, they should be employed at some little distance from the joint. Blisters may be applied over the joint, but they should not be so large as to produce considerable irritation: they should be kept open by theunguen- tum sabinae. Depend on it this is the best treatment; the tartar emetic ointment is a useful irritant, in the proportion of a drachm of the tartarized antimony to an ounce of spermaceti ointment. When the irritation has, by evaporating lotions, and other means, been lessened, no motion being at all employed, it will be neces- sary to put a splint, under the limb, extending from the ham to the heel, and then to use friction, so that the joint may in time be restored to use. If no friction or passive motion be employed, there will be no chance of restoring the limb. This was the ad- vantage of the late Mr. Grosvenor’s plan, of Oxford. I will not say that friction, when the inflammation is going on, is not inju- dicious ; but I mean that when the inflammation is subdued you are not to leave the joint in a state of rest, but to use friction. Let me put you on your guard with respect to cases of common inflammation; in them you may employ motion earlier than in scrofulous disease. There is such a disposition to a return of these last affections, that you should never give any pain in the motion you use; the exercise should be so employed as not to excite the least uneasiness in taking it. The next circumstance to be considered is, when does amputa- tion become necessary? Formerly, limbs used to be amputated for scrofulous affections much more frequently than at the present day. The reason we seldom amputate is, that the affected limb may, with care and management, be often made more useful than an artificial one. In enlargements of the knee and ankle, it may be necessary now and then to amputate; but it ought never to oe done unless the patient is labouring under great constitutional .rritation, which threatens destruction to his life, or the limb has undergone such changes that it is not likely to be useful hero- after. For instance, in cases of scrofulous aiTectionsof the arklo