AFFECTION OF THE MESENTERIC GLANDS. 601 sulphate of zinc, containing about a scruple of the zinc to a pint of water. Throw a small quantity of this into the wound; it will soon produce healthy granulations, and lessen the discharge if it be copious. Such, then, gentlemen, is the treatment to be adopted after the gland has proceeded to the suppurative state. What I advise you to do is, to make an opening into the gland as soon as fluctuation can be detected, and before any discoloration of the skin takes place, in order to prevent a scar hereafter. Thus, you see, by a little attention, the cause of much unhappiness may be kept otf. At this time you should give rhubarb and carbonate of iron, about two grains of the former, and five of the latter, twice a-day. The diet should be nutritious, but not in the slightest degree stimulating. With respect to the ulcerative process, there is nothing particular to remark: fomentations, poultices, and the ordinary means, must be had recourse to. Your object, how- ever, should be to prevent ulceration by the mode of treatment I have laid down; and it is only when it cannot be prevented that the latter means are to be employed. Affection of the Mesenteric Glands. The glands which are affected with scrofulous disease, next in frequency to those of the neck, are the mesenteric glands. In young persons they are most commonly affected at the age of six or eight months. This complaint is known by the belly being tumid, and from the tenderness on pressure; attenuation of the skin, voraciousness of appetite; the limbs of the child, at the same time, wasting. The intestines are equally irregular, but sometimes purged, at others costive. In the motions are occa- sionally observed earthy matter (a specimen of which I now send you round), composed of carbonate of lime. The causes which produce enlargement of the mesenteric glands arise from disease of the secreting glands of the intestinal canal; such as irritating food, which irritates the mouths of the absorbent vessels of the intestines learling to the mesentery. With respect to the effect of mesenteric diseases, they consist, at first, in an interruption of the process of absorption. The chyle trave’s through the absorb- ents to the mesenteric glands, and, when some of these are enlarged, the chyle is interrupted in its course. Although the child generally eats voraciously, is it wonderful that there should be such emaciation, independent of the irritation produced, by the system being drqirived of nourishment ? Treatment of IHieaied Mesenteric GlarvU.—As to the treatment, I arlvisc you to direct that the child should take animal food,