482 ON POISONS. With respect to the poison of rabid animals producing the disease called Hydrophobia, and which disease is so different in its character, 80 opposed to those - arising from any of the other poisons, so marked in its nature, so horrid in its effects, that upon seeing it you could not hesitate to form a correct opinion as to the nature of the malady. The first symptom a person experiences who has been bitten by a rabid animal, is pain in the injured part; and this is usually felt from the third to the fifth week. The next symptom is a sense of chilliness, succeeded by rigors and heat; then a difficulty of swallowing is felt, not of liquids in particular, but of any substance : this arises from the constriction of the muscles of the pharynx; and so violent are the spasms of the throat that, upon offering the patient any thing to swallow, you would think it would directly occasion suffocation ; he will desLst from the attempt, and tell you he will try again by and by ; upon again applying tlie cup to his lips, he will be seized with the most horrid shuddering, turn away to avoid the sight of what he was about to take, and sit down in a state of exhaustion. It has been said, that persons having this disease bark like a dog; this is not true, ns the noise is occasioned by violent inspirations; whereas the barking of a dog is the effect of expiration. In hydrophobia there is generally extraordinary irritability. I have seen two or three examples where the slightest touch of the bed clothes would produce a sudden impetuous passion; and in two children whom I have seen, they would beat away the bed-clothes, and could not suffer them to cover their bodies. ]f you direct a patient having hydrophobia to go into a warm bath, he does not oliject, but will tell you he will try ; upon approach- ing the water, however, and putting in his foot, he will imme- diately jump, and tell you he cannot enter the bath. By per- suasion, they have afterwards plunged in, when the violence of the (onvulsions were such, that, if not immediately removed, thev would have been drowned. When in the bath, even the slight waves striking against the neck gave rise to the most dread- ful spasms ; and in one case, when the patient was in the bath, and the medical attendant dashed some of the water against iii« face, he exclaimed, in great agony, “ Oh, don’t ; that is cruel— that is too bad : 1 cannot bear it.” I mention these circum- stances for the purpose of showing you, that in hydiophobia ther» is a grea* ‘^citement of the nervous system ; and it is quite er-