ON STRUMOUS OPHTHALMIA, 286 particularly of this complaint is, because there is one symptom invariably present—intolerance of light. The patient cannot bear the least access of light; there is great difficulty of opening the lids, the orbicularis palpebrarum appears spasmodically contracted, and difficult is it for a patient to open the eyes, that he can seldom do it; so an adult may have sufficient resolution, but it is necessary that the eyes should be opened. The only way in which this can be done, is by fixing the head of the patient, when it is a child, bet veen your knees, with the fore-finger of the one hand to raise the upper lid, and that of the other to depress the lower, which will give you an opportunity of seeing the eye; but in doing this, great caution will be required to prevent eversion of the under lid, or any undue violence to the part. When you examine the conjunctiva, you will be surprised to find how little it is inflamed, though the child does not raise its head from the mother’s lap. I say that it will be necessary to examine the eye frequently dur- ing this state. Disorganization of the different parts of this organ often takes place ; the cornea, or rather conjunctiva covering it, becomes coveted with an opaque capsule, with vessels shooting ever the cornea, so as to give it an herpetic appearance; that is, there will be seen over the cornea yellow spots, which are depo- sits of lymph. These open into small ulcers, which are streaked with vessels carrying red blood. The eye becomes very painful, and extremely irritable, and there is often, in this state, intense redness of the conjunctiva. Under these circumstances, similar ulcers form in different parts of the cornea. The formation of these ulcers produces all the symptoms of acute inflammation of the eye and the organ not unfrequently becomes slowly and gra- dually disorganized. So long, however, as the cornea continues bright, and of its natural colour, their will be no danger to be ap- prehended from the formation of ulcers. But it is of the greatest importance that the cornea should be narrowly watched, as, if the inflammation continues for a long time, ulcers are very apt to form on it. But the most distressing symptom, and the one about which the patient expresses the greatest uneasiness, is the intolerance of light. Treatment of Strumous Ophthalmia. I have said that the inflammation is one of the atonic kind, yet there exists considerable irritation. Depletion must be hal re- course to, but not to any considerable extent: it will be right to »pply leeches, but certainly blood-letting should not be ■j’lihed