ON COMPOUND FRACTURES. 663 this accident the malleolus internus is obliquely fractured, and it happens from the wheel of a carriage passing over the leg, or ty the foot being twisted in jumping or falling. To reduce this dislocation, you place the patient on his back, bend the thigh at right angles with the body, and the leg at right angles with the thigh; let the foot be held firmly by one assistint, and the thigh grasped under the ham by another; then extend the foot in a line with the leg, and press the tibia inwards towards the astra- galus. The limb should be laid on its outer side, resting on splints with foot-pieces, and a pad should be placed on the fibula, above the outer ankle, extending a little way up the bone, so as to support that part of the leg. The after-treatment will be the same as in the former cases. Passive motion should be used in six weeks. Compound Dislocations of the Ankle-Joints may take place in the some direction as the simple, and the bones and ligaments suffer in the same way. Great local inflammation and constitutional disturbance attend this accident ; the cause of these is the wound which is made into the joint, and the great efforts re- quired to repair it. The principle to be observed is this:—Close the wound as completely as possible, to assist nature in the ad- hesive process by which the wound is to be closed, thus rendering suppuration and granulation less necessary for the union of the opened joint. The reduction is to be effected in the same manner as I have before described in simple dislocations. Apply a little lint, dipped in blood, to the wound, put on a many-tailed bandage, which is to be kept wet with spirits of wine and water, and the limb should rest on its outer side. But in the dislocation outwards it is best to keep the foot on the heel, with a splint and foot-piece on the outer and inner side of the leg. The knee should be slightly bent, and care taken that the foot does not become pointed. LECTURE LXXIV. ' On Compound Fractures. A ITER some operations had been performed at the theatre of fiuy’s Hospital, Sir Astley presented himself to the pupils, and saifl that he intended to t.ake arlvanlagcof the present opportunity of their being together, to make some remarks on compound fractures, to describe the mode by which they become united,