ON SCROFULA. 59H best; once a week, or every ten days, two grains of calomel and eight of rhubarb, in order to restore the secretions. This relieves scrofulous inflammation, on the same principle as all other in- flammations are relieved. A good medicine to be given daily, for a short time, is the rhubarb and steel; two grains of rhubarb, and from three to five of the carbonate of iron. This is a very good tonic. Another good tonic consists of two grains of rhubarb, and from four to six grains of dried subcarbonate of soda, with ten grains of calumba, which may be taken mixed with sugar, a form that seldom disagrees with the patient. These means will greatly assist the powers of digestion. One of the remedies which we use in the other hospital (Guy’s) is infusion of camomile flowers, with a few grains of hydrargyrus cum cret4, at bed time ; or the oxy- murias hydrargyri, in the proportion of a grain to two ounces of the tincture of bark; a tea spoonful of which should be taken twice a-day in a glass of the camomile infusion. If the Dowels are costive, tincture of rhubarb should be substituted for the tincture of bark. The liquor potassae is a medicine also used. These dif- ferent medicines medical men use in different ways ; those I em- ploy are the steel, with rhubarb and calomel, or the subcarbonate of soda with rhubarb and calumba. A great deal of care should be taken of children originally formed weakly; you should excite no feverish action on the one hand, nor do any thing to debilitate the constitution on the other. These are the Scylla and C .aryb- dis which we must avoid; that of exciting fever on the one hand, and debility on the other: and recollect, above all, the three prin- ciples of treatment which I have so often laid down. Children should be well clothed, and never exposed to changes of tempera- ture. For this purpose they should wear flannel close to the skin; and, in this case, it should be worn also during the night. If the weather be very warm, calico may be substituted for flannel. The great object is to preserve an equal temperature of the skin, and not to produce perspiration, because that would debilitate. It is right to recommend sea-bathing ; the bath should be taken about three times a-week, at eleven in the morning. The temperature of the bath should be at 94°; the person should remain from sixteen to twenty minutes in it, and walk afterwards. Some children are exceedingly frightened at the sigjit of the water, at the commencement, and in those cases it will be advantageous to sprinkle the body over first with tepid s.alt water. This will gradually remove the child's fear of the water, and prepare the way for the sea-bathing.