178 OPERATION FOR POPLITEAL ANEURISM. at its curvature. He came to London, and having been under my care before, he applied to me again. On examination 1 dis- covered the aneurism. A consultation was held on this patient in July, when it was agreed that he should be kept low, be occasionally bled, and be allowed small quantities only of animal food, as it was hoped that by this means the action of the heart and arteries would be considerably lessened. Well, this regimen was prescribed in July ; the patient adhered very rigidly to it; but the February following he died, from the bursting of the artery into the chest, having lived a shorter period than usual in these cases. Now it is probable that he would have survived longer, had he been treated otherwise ; and 1 will explain to you how it is that keeping the patients so low does not agree with them ; by keeping them so low, the constitution is rendered irritable, and then whatever is lost in the momentum of the cir- culating fluid, is gained in velocity. I have seen loss of blood in the treatment of aneurisms occasionally useful. When, the chest is affected, and breathing laborious, it will be right to take blood ; and the best state in which the body can be kept is a little below par ; that is, a little under the natural state. Strict atten- tion must be paid to regimen ; and it would be highly improper to give stimuli of any kind. The second point is the chance of obtaining a cure by the ap- plication of pressure on the artery or aneurisraal bag. \'ery many years ago, I had an iron ring made, with a pad on the outer side, and a screw on the opposite; this w'as put on the limb, pressure on the outside was made against the thigh, and on the inside against the artery ; the use of this w-ais worse than the operation. I applied it on a man at the other hospital, and I will tell you how long he kept it on—twenty-four hours only. In three hours from its first application he began to complain of pain; in a few hours afterwards it became worseand in less than twenty-four hours the man said that he would submit to any operation rather than suffer the pain: therefore it is im- possible to practise it. I have tried the same experiment on the upper extremity, but without its leading to any useful results. This plan of pressure on arteries does not succeed, and therefore ought to be abandoned. Well, gentlemen, 1 will describe the alterations which have taken place in the mode of performing the operation for popliteal aneurism since the time of IMr. J. Hunter. Mr. Hunter mr.d