FRACTURKS OF THE THIGH-BONE. 653 supply of blood to the head of the bone being derived from the iigamentura teres, which has only a few minute vessels ramifying from it on the bone, the natural supply of blood for the neck and; head of the bone is derived from the periosteum ; and when; the neck is fractured, and the periosteum torn through, the means o£ 033.fic action are necessarily cut off. No deposit of cartilage or bone, as in other fractures, is produced, but there is a deposition of ligamentous matter covering the surface of the cancellated structure. On dissection of these accidents you find that the cancelli are rendered firm and smooth by friction, as in other bones which rub on each other when their articular cartilages are absorbed. Portions of bone remain attached by ligament, or are loose and floating in the joint, covered by ligamentous; matter; but these do not excite inflammation any more than simitar portions which are found in the knee or in the elbow- joints. The capsular ligament and the synovial membrane are very much thickened from the inflammation which they have undergone, and are therefore very much strengthened. This membrane is sometimes separated from the fractured portions, so as to form a thick band, passing from the fractured edges of the cervix to the head of the bone. Ligamentous matter passes also from the cancellated structure of the head to the neck, thus uniting, by a flexible material, the one broken portion of bone to another. It appears then, as a general principle, that ussijic union is not proriuced. I have seen the two preparations of Mr. Stanley, at Bartholomew’s, which were supposed to be specimens of that union, but these have the same appearances on each side. now it is very probable that age or disease might produce similar effects in both bones, but it would be very difficult to suppose that accidents would do so. In experiments which I have made on animals in perfect health, the union was always by ligament. One of the best proofs, however, is a preparation of Mr. Lang- staff’s, in which the bone is fractured within and without the capsular ligament; that without is united by bone, and that within the cajisule is united by ligament. I have often seen that appearance in the necks of the thigh-bones of old people, supposed to reiiresent the union of a fracture through the cervix by bone. But the truth is, that it is occasioned by the absorption of the neck of the bone, in the way I have before described, al- lowing of the descent of the hear! of the bone just opposite the root of the trochanter major. Here, gentlemen, is the thiglr- boneofan aged female (holding it up to the class), in which