I 14 TREATMENT OF GANGRENE. It generally happens, in cases of gangrene, that the body will not bear any considerable degree of depletion; but local de- pletion, by means of leeches, may be safely resorted to. Thus, in compound fracture of the leg, for instance, gangrene may be prevented by the application of leeches, when it would not be equally safe to take blood from the arm. Soothing applications, such as poppy fomentations and poultices, should be employed to subdue the excessive action which threatens the destruction of the life of the part. It will be necessary, at the same time, to attend to the constitutional treatment of the patient. In this metropolis, it is seldom safe to take blood from the arm of pa- tients to prevent gangrene. In the country a different practice may be pursued; and it will frequently be necessary to take away in erysipelas, and other cases, in which we cannot and dare not deplete in town, where the constitution of patients is broken by intemperance, or enfeebled by deteriorated air. When you take away blood, however, to prevent gangrene, do not take more than eight or ten ounces, lest the vigour of the circulation, and consequently the nervous powers of the constitution, should be too much diminished. Two or three grains of calomel should be given at night, with a view of restoring the defective secretions of the intestinal canal and the liver ; and the liquor ammonise ace- tatis, with a few drops of the tincture of opium, should be given •several times in the day. By the calomel you restore the secre- tions ; and by the opium you tranquillize the system and diminish the irritability which leads to the destruction of the life of the parts. Do not begin by stimfllaling the constitution too much in cases of gangrene. The effect of opium may, in some res- pects, be similar to that of taking a stimulus into the system, but it is by diminishing excessive action, at the same time that it in- creases the strength of the body, that opium becomes so valuable a medicine in these cases. The best means, therefore, of pre- venting gangrene, are to restore the secretions by calomel, and to diminish irritability by opium, and, in some cases, by taking away very small quantities of blood. If the gangrene arise from the application of cold, the treat- ment must be different. In these cases, the action of the parts is feeble from the diminution of nervous power, and it will be pro- per to restore it to a healthy state by stimulants of the most gentle kind. For this purpose, the best application is the camphorated spirit of wine, accompanied with gentle friction. If you are