OPENING FROM THE SAC TO THE CHEEK. 329 be injected through the punctum and sac to the nasal duct; but the injection of fluid was found inadequate to overcome tlie obstruc- tion. It is a useful instrument in gleety discharges from the sac or duct, but beyond this it is quite inefficient. ]\Ir. Wathen recommended tliat a hollow metallic tube should be introduced into the ductus ad nasum ; the object- of its being hollow was to allow the passage of tears through it, but it was found inadequate ; it soon became filled with mucus. M. Du- puytren is in the habit of using a gold tube in this way, and it is sard that most of his cases are cured ; this I should doubt; and in one case I know it did not succeed. Mr. Pott also advised the use of bougies for removing the obstruction. The plan laid down by Mr. Ware is the one now generally adopted; it con- sists of introducing a nail-headed style into the ductus ad nasum, and letting it remain there. The style should be just large enough to allow of the flow of the tears by the side of it. If no opening has been made from the repeated inflammation, the mode you will adopt to make one is as follows :—you direct the patient to ba seated, and then standing behind him, you pass your hand round the patient’s head, open the lachrymal sac, and then carry a blunt pointed bistoury inwards and downwards and divide the obstruc- tion ; the instrument with which you make the external opening is a phymosis knife. Having done this, you ascertain whether the passage is free, and then introduce a nail-headed style about an inch and three eighths long ; the head of the style is to lay obliquely on the front of the cheek, and a piece of adhesive plais- ter spread on black silk to be put over it, which will prevent persons from suspecting that there is any thing wrong with the eye. The style requires to be removed once a day, for the first week, and to be washed ; sometimes there is a little irritation pro- duced by its introduction ; but, in general, there is none, and the comfort the patient experiences is very great; the water ceases to flow over the cheek—the sight becomes stronger—the tendency to inflammation is obviated ; and indeed, so much comfort is expe- rienced that the patient is loth to dispense with the use of the style. Although the relief obtained from this plan is great, yet it was in reference to it that 1 said just now that no plan of treat- ment had yet been decided on which generally proved successful; for this mode must be considered more in the light of a palliative than a curative remedy; the obstruction frequently returning when the style b removed. It sometimes happens that from dis-