405 ON PUNCTURING THE BLADDER. f'irtl»er, introduce a director, and upon it a knife, with which I divide the membranous portion of the urethra. The result is, that the urine is passed by the perinasum, and the bladder is relieved from the accumulated load of urine without being in the slightest degree injured. It is said that this is an operation attended with great difficulty. I will acknowledge that there is some difficulty in it, if a man is not quite clear as to the situ- ation of the different parts of the urethra ; hut this is what every surgeon ought to be perfectly acquainted with. Suppose I wish- ed to cut into the membranous portion of the urethra, where should I make (he incision so as to be quite sure of cutting at once into it, even without the introduction of a staff!—Directly under the symphysis pubis. A few days ago I had occasion to perform the operation which I am now describing. In going round the wards I was told that there was a man with a very bad stricture ; I desirdd that he might be carried into the theatre. I found it impossible to introduce an instrument into his bladder ; I consequently made an incision on the stricture. This incision led to the discovery of some very solid bodies, which proved to be two calculi directly behind the stricture. I first introduced a probe, and tlien a director, which I passed into the bladder. In order to overcome the stricture, I did not divide, it with the knife, but passing a catheter down to the stricture, I forced the stricture with the catheter, carried the instrument on through the wound into the bladder, and left it there. Now was this man’s life endangered by this operation ? Was he less likely to recover! See, him, gentlemen, and judge for yourselves, he was completely relieved by this operation, and he is now doing extremely well. It may be supposed that this operation is a little bantling of my own, and that I am therefore desirous that others should favour it. No, gentlemen, these are not my sentiments. 1 am anxious only that you should adopt that ope- ration which is best calculated for the patient’s safety, and your own reputation. If you can relieve a patient from an accumu- lated load of urine, by an operation which leaves his bladder in a sound state, I certainly think you should prefer that operation. Some, at least, of the surgeons of these hospitals concur with me in this opinion. Mr. Green and Mr. Key have performed this operation repeatedly. The other day, indeed, when the man was placed on the table, and I hesitated whether I should puncture the bladder above the pubes, for I think it right occasionally to