568 ON SYPHILIS AFFECTING THE NOSB. which separated from the nose by exfoliation, in the same in- dividual. Here is another example, in which the disease also made considerable progress in this part. The treatment of syphilis in the nose, is similar to the treatment of it in other parts of the body. The constitutional treatment is precisely the same, but, in addition to the constitutional treatment, local applications should be employed. Fumigating the part is attended with some advantage; injecting lotions are also sometimes found to be beneficial. Lotions of diluted nitric, or muriatic acid may be used with a view of healing the sores, and assisting the process of exfoliation. Fumigations are used in clearing the nose of the accumulated incrustations. Steaming the nose with hot water, assists in separating the incrustations, and afiVirds considerable relief to the patient. Such is the treatment under ordinary circumstances. If the bones of the nose have not become aflfected, there will be no great difficulty in conducting the cure, but there are cases in which very considerable difficulties will be encountered, and in which the most horrible deformities will frequently be the result. In general, you are to consider these deformities as the result, not of syphilis, but of the improper treatment of that disease. I will tell you what very often happens in cases of S3rphilitic disease in the nose. The patient undergoes a mercurial treatment, and the sores appear to be cured; but, when the mercury has been left olT for a time, and the person has returned to his ordinary employments, he finds the dis- charge again appearing in the nose, and as it becomes ofi'en- sive, applies to a medical man. Under such circumstances, it is frequently supposed that, though he has undergone a treat- ment which is usually sufficient for the cure of syphilis, the disease is not yet completely subdued, and he is put under a second course of mercury. This, gentlemen, is not only un- necessary, but extremely injurious to the patient. The disease of the nose is not the result of syphilis, but it arises from the process of exfoliation in an exposed portion of bone. During the time the mercury is given the sores heal, and the bone be- comes dry. There is no discharge at this period, but after a time the process of exfoliation produces irritation and ulceration of the mucous membrane of the nose, which is generally, but er- roneouslv supposed to be syphilitic If the patient, time after time, be subjected to fresh courses of mercury, these add In the mischief, and the most horrible deformities often ensue. The mer-