ON ANEURISM OF THE AORTA. 163 which I have seen of aneurism of the heart are the following; A soldier of the guards had committed some offence, for which he was severely flogged; being a determined fellow, he resolved not to cry, and whilst he was receiving the punishment he held his breath ; a short time after this he was seized with violent pain in the chest; Mr. Palmer, surgeon to the guards, was sent for, and he found him dying, as he thought, of ascites and oedema of the lower extremities. He soon died, and on examination it was found that there was an aneurism of the left ventricle, which had burst as the pericardium was very much distended with blood. Mr. P. of Chichester, surgeon to the militia, was sent for, to see a man who had symptoms of diseased heart, and in- termitting pulsation ; he had also ascites and oedema of tlie lower extremities. This man died, and there was found an aneurism of the left auricle. A curious circumstance' in this case was, that the blood had insinuated itself into the coats of the left au- ricle ; the aneurism was of the size of a walnut; its coats had given way, and nature as it were, thus unloaded herself. These three cases of aneurism of the heart are the only ones that I have seen. ANEtrniSM OF the Aorta Aneurism of the ascending aorta, just at its commencement where it is covered by the pericardium, is not of uncommon oc- currence. Here are two examples of aneurism in that situation (pointing to the specimens on the table) of the size of a walnut; they had burst into the pericardium, which, on examination, was found filled with blood. I will give you a singular case, in or- der to put you on your guard, as you must expect to meet with thorns as well as flowers in the profession. A man was brought to the other hospital labouring under popliteal aneurism ; I told him he must submit to an operation. In order to have the prin- cipal artery of the thigh secured, he sat down on the table, and was placed in the usual position ; before I had quite reached the sartorius muscle, I saw him stretch himself on his back, and per- ceived urine coming from the penis. I immediately said. This is more than the expression of pain and the apprehension of danger. He got up, made a gasp; I took out a lancet, opened a vein, but no blood came. I then tried to obtain some from the jugular, but in vain; in three minutes he was quite dead. I said, gen- tlemen, as you have seen the death, you sliall see the examination. He was conveyed to the dead-house; and the next day I opened