292 ON FUNGUS OF THE CONJUNCTIVA. cult to manage, as they often occur in the scrofulous habits of body and broken-up constitutions, and are apt to become chronic, and consequently difficult of cure. When the healing of the ulcers takes place, and the same state of body continues, they are soon reproduced and the disease is greatly aggravated. As for the treatment this affection requires, it will be hardly ne. cessary to say, that if considerable inflammation exists, depletion must be employed. The inflammation, however, is of the atonic kind. First apply leeches, but not in large numbers, so as not to carry depletion to too great an extent: it will be proper to eva- cuate the bowels, not by drastic purges, but mild aperients, and to attend to the secretions. Blisters will be useful, if the sight be affected. When the stats of the bowels bas been regulated, you must begin with tonic remedies, and as early as possible with mild astringent collyria, and the best is the vinum opii. The only point to guard against is, that depletion be not pursued to too great an extent at the outset. The system must be invigorated by tonic remedies, and tone given to the vessels of the part. The next affection to which I shall direct your attention, is the result of purulent ophthalmia, which is that called Fungus of the Conjunctiva. This appearance of the conjunctiva occurs in diseased subjects. The conjunctiva becomes loose and red, the vessels turgid with blood, and there is a fold of this membrane on the inside of the lids, which produces considerable irregularity on its surface—a morbid secretion is kept up on the part—and not unfrequently eversion of the lids is the result. Extraneous bodies often enter the eye, and disturb it considerably. To prevent this, and remedy the complaint, the loose portion of the conjunctiva should be re- moved, which is a very easy operation. An assistant holding the lid, you, by the means of a pair of forceps, raise the fold of the conjunctiva, and with a pair of curved scissors remove it. As to the after treatment, you must keep down inflammation, should it appear, by the means already recommended. There is another affection more frequently met with than this, viz. Guanulations of the Conjunctiva. These are nothing more than loose irregularities of this mem- brane where it lines the lids. These projections continue to pour out a portion of morbid secretion, which stimulates and irritates the whole eye ; the palpebral conjunctiva becomes altered in its