542 ON GLEET IN WOMEN. municating to her such a horrible disease ! I should be glad to see him hanged. If I were to tell you how often I have met with such cases, I should say that I have met with thirty in the course of my life. The last case I saw was in the city: a gentleman came to me, and asked me to see a child with liim, who had a gonorrhoea on her. 1 went, and found that she had a free diseharge from the preputium clitoridis, I said that there was nothing so common as this. There was considerable inflammation, and it had even proceeded to ulceration, which I told him would soon give way to the use of the liquor calcis with calomel. “ Do you tell me so ? (he replied) why, suspicion has fallen on one of the servants ; but he will not confess. If he had appeared at the Old Bailey, I should have given my evidence against him ; for I was not aware of what you have just now told me,” I told him that, if the man had been hanged by his evidence, he would have de- served to be hanged too. I am anxious that this complaint should be known by every one present, and that the remarks 1 have made should be circu- lated throughout the kingdom. When a child has this discharge, there is a heat of the parts, slight inflammation, and this some- times increases, and goes on to ulceration. This disease some- times occurs in children at the time of cutting their teeth. The treatment you adopt is the lime-water, with calomel, applied to the part; and give calomel and rhubarb, combined with jalap. As to the treatment of gonorrhoea in females, you must direct the patient to take diluents : we possess no medicine which has a specific influence over the discharge in females; you must depend on diluents, and appease any local inflammation by the use of such lotions as the liquor, plumbi subacetatis, dilutus; a sponge dipped in these should be introduced into the vagina, and be al- lowed to remain there; it should, however, be often removed and cleansed. It is necessary that the patient should take aperient roedicine-s. Of Gleet in Fumsles. I observed, when speaking of gleet in males, that it was doubt, ful whether the discharge, as long as it continued, ever ceased to be infectious. The same observation applies to females. The learned professor here related the experiment detailed by Mr. Hunter, in his work on Syohilis, shewing the length of time the infection may be propagated by a fetuale, after the ai)i>eaiauct of the discharge.