ON SCROFULA. 694 tion. In scrofulous children I do not like the stomach to bo loaded with milk for breakfast, which considerably impairs the powers of digestion, and therefore I generally order a little meat or an egg as a substitute. Next in importance to nourishment ia exercise. Children with scrofulous affections, or even those predisposed to them, should take a great deal of exercise in the open air; more, how- ever, in the way of play than as a task; and here I must say, that I am anxious that those concerned in the education of youth, particularly female instructors, should be acquainted with what I have said on this important subject. I wish them to know what food and exercise should be allowed to children with a scrofulous taint, and how much the future happiness of those in- kusted to their care is dependent on an attention to these parti- culars. At schools, in general, too little exercise is taken by the icholars. Boys, however, will have it; but not so with the girls; they are frequently compelled to sit from morning till night, en- gaged in learning music, geography, French, Italian, and God knows what else, without paying the slightest attention to the preservation of their health, and thus impairing constitutions which might have been rendered strong and robust. It is not my wish to discourage the cultivation of the human mind in any degree, nor even to prevent the fairer sex from atlaining those accomplishments which so frequently render them the grace, life, and ornament of society ; but I think it the extreme of folly to compel children to pass hours over pursuits for which they have no taste, such as making them learn music when they have no ear; while their health is neglected, and their constitutions are ruined by the confinement to which they are subjected. The mischiefs thus arising from the false system of education at pre- sent pursued in this country, so frequently come before my notice, that I wish what I have said to be generally known, in order that future misery may be prevented, and the physical education of our youth be better directed. E.\eicise should not be taken so as to fatigue the body; when children feel them- selves weary, they should rest a little till they recover. When the state of the weather prevents them from taking exercise in the open air, they should play in a large airy chamber, and be al- .owcd to dance in the evenings, taking care that the perspiration excited should not be checked by any improper means, as it is too often done with thoughtless and giddy children ; and, by this means, they will be brought up with constitutions invigorated.