^18 D1SI.OCATIONS OF THE THIGH-BONE. waids, to preserve his equilibrium, and the head of the bone starts forwards on the pubes. It is much more readily detecteo than any other dislocation of the thigh. The principal marks are these;—The limb is an inch shorter than the other, and the knee and foot are turned outwards, and cannot be -otated inwards: but the most striking mark of the dislocation is that the head c( the thigh may be felt upon the pubes, above the level of Poupart’ ligament, to the outer side of the femoral artery, and feels like a nard ball there, which will readily move on rotating or bending the knee. Easy as this dislocation is to detect, I have known three cases in which it has been overlooked until it was too late. This could only arise from great carelessness; and that man really deserves the appellation of a blockhead, who, in the present day, would allow such an occurrence to take place. This accident need never to be mistaken for a fracture of the neck o^ the thigh bone, as the head of the bone on the pubes will point out, tq the most superficial observer, the nature of the accident. Tq reduce tliis dislocation, you place the patient on a table, on his side; then carry a girt between the pudendum and the inner part of the thigh, and fix it in a staple, a little before the line of the body. The roller is to be passed around the thigh, and the pullies fixed as in the dislocation upwards, and the extension is to be made in a line behind the axis of the body, the thigh-bone being drawn backwards. After this extension has been continued some time, pass a napkin under the upper part of the thigh, whilst an assistant, resting one hand on the pelvis, lifts the head of the bone over the pubes and edge of the ace- tabulum. From what I have had an opportunity of observing on the subject of dislocations, 1 think that the relative proportion of cases will be as follows:—^Now, if I take the number as twenty, there will be twelve on the dorsum ilii, five in the ischiatic notch, two in the foramen ovale, and one on the pubes. From the fre- quency of the occurrence of these accidents, it is astonishing that they should have escaped the observation of surgeons of former times, and these, too, of some eminence in the profession. Is it not gratifying, on the other hand, to contrast the present state of information in the profession with what it was about fifty years ago ? What should we think of a surgeon in this metropolis, with all the opportunities of seeing diseases in the large hospitals of this city, who doubted the existence of a dislocation of the thigh, when we find that surgeons in the country are able imme-