ov hernia 268 is involved in the swelling, so that it cannot be distinctly felt This is a distinguishing mark between congenital hernia, or hernia of the tunica vaginalis, and common hernia; the former u much more concealed and buried in the surrounding parts. In the latter, the coverings of the hernia, namely, the fascia rf the cord and the cremaster are thin ; but the tunica vaginalis being thicker than tlie peritoneum, the parts are not so readily distin- guishable in hernia of the tunica vaginalis as in the common hernia. The testicle is, besides, considerably diminished in size in the latter species of hernia, in consequence of the pressure on the sac preventing the free circulation of the blood-vessels in that part. In hernia of the tunica vaginalis, the spermatic cord is not unfrequently altered in its direction, the artery and vein being on one side, aud the vas deferens situated posteriorly in the outer part. Here is a beautiful specimen (exhibiting it to the class) illustrating this case. It not unfrequently happens, in this species of hernia, that the testicle does not descend completely into the scrotum, and the peritoneal sac descends lower than the situation of the testicle. When the hernia is in a reducible state, and a child is brought to you whose testicle is situated above the abdominal ring, you should advise the parent on no account to apply a truss, but to let the hernia extend itself until it has gradually brought down the testicle into the scrotum, and then, and not till then, to apply B truss. Many years ago, a gentleman brought his child to me with hernia, whose testicle had not descended, and asked me what was to be done. I told him, if a truss were applied, it would press upon the testicle, waste, and at length destroy it; but if the hernia were suffered to increase till the testicle was brought down into the scrotum, there was but little risk of its being strangulated in very young subjects, and when the testicle had descended, it would be the proper time to apply a truss This gentleman brought his son to me when he was nineteen years of age ; his testicle had then descended, and a truss was applied, which kept it below the abdominal ring. I am happy to say that this patient, who now holds a distinguished situation, has taken to himself a wife, and produced to himself a numerous progeny. When you are therefore consulted under such cir- cumstances, this is the plan, gentlemen, which I recommend you to pursue. You will be consulted in cases of hernia congenita as to the time at which a truss should be worn: a truss with