220 ON HERNIA. disease is very likely to be mist,'Jcen for hernia. Very recently I saw a case where a patient haa been wearing a large spring truss for a varicocele that had been mistaken for hernia, and which had chafed him considerably. I tell you, gentlemen, how you shall distinguish it: Tell the patient to lie down; raise the testicles, and empty the veins ; then press firmly on the abdo- minal ring; keep your finger firmly there, and raise the patient from the recumbent position, and the swelling will return; then in this easy way you may distinguish varicocele from hernia. 2dly.—The other disease that may be confounded with hernia is hydrocele of the spermatic cord ; and in this complaint our diag- nosis fails, when the hydrocele is situated above the abdominal ring. In the recumbent posture there is no appearance of it, but as soon as the patient rises it returns. It is situated above the ring, opposite to the tendons of the internal oblique and trans- versalis : pressure on this part might be of service. The diagnosis of hydrocele of the spermatic cord below the ring is easy ; above it is difficult. A ■ truss, in this complaint, is not an evil, and may be worn with advantage. LECTURE. XXVI Causes of Hehnia. Thebe are three causes of inguinal hernia; namely, unusual pressure of the abdominal viscera, pressure of the parietes of the abdomen, or relaxation of the parietes. Pressure from within, in consequence of enlargement of the abdominal viscera, the omentum and mesentery being loaded with a fatty substance, is a very common cause of inguinal hernia. It is well known that animals that are much pampered, and enjoy a great deal of rest and excessive indulgence, become the subjects of hernia. Women, in a state of pregnancy, are liable to hernia, though more frequently to umbilical than inguinal hernia. The intes- tines arc forced by the uterus as it ascends from the pelvis to the upper part of the abdomen into a very small .space, and in this manner protrusion sometimes takes place. The hernia i« sometimes situated in the thigh, and sometimes in the groin: but it may be said to arise less frequently from gesUtion than from other causes. Hernia is very commonly produced by the in- creased action of the abdominal muscles, in consequence of some effort disproportipned to the strength of the person using it.