OVARIAN OR ENCYSTED DROPSY. 416 • ^ turned to the persons present, and said, ‘ Gentlemen, this is an operation which you have prcibably never seen before—it is that of dry tapping and then to the attendant, “ Nurse, you may do her up.” [Ejcessius laughter.'] “ Faith,” said the gentle- man who told me the story, “ we thought he had done her up.” A question has often been started by medical men, whether the operation should be performed early or late, and in reply, I say, never early ; at this time the cyst does not adhere to the pe- ritoneum : consequently, instead of your drawing the water off, it will escape into the cavity of the abdomen. I knew an in- stance where a young woman was operated upon, in whom the cyst was very small; while the water was passing off, it suddenly stopped upon which the surgeon introduced a probe ; and upon withdrawing the probe, something came away with it, which, upon examination, v/as found to be omentum. After the opera- tion, peritoneal inflammation came on, and the young womam iied. Never operate then, until the tumour has become fixed, and which fact you can ascertain by carefully watching it in dif- ferent positions of the body. But there is another reason why the operation should not be performed in the commencement of the disease, which is, the cyst at that period consists of different compartments, divided by septa ; as the disease advances, and as the cyst becomes larger, these septa are broken, and the whole of the interior forms one cavity. Now, if you were to operate before this had been effected, the end of the canula communica- ting only with one part of the cyst, would merely draw the water from thence, without abstracting it from other parts, and consequently, the relief to the patient would be exceedingly nartial. It has been proposed, after evacuating the water from ovarian cysts, to inject them in the same manner as we do the tunica vaginalis for the radical cure of hydrocele. The experiment was tried more than a hundred years since by a practitioner in Cornwall; in the first case it completely succeeded, but, with a candour which did him infinite credit, he acknowledged that in two subsequent instances, it proved unsuccessful. Probably it has not been sufficiently tried, and, for my orvn part, I think the subject is really deserving consideration. The stimulant em- ployed should be mild, and must not approach the strength of the injections used for hydrocele, composed as they are of a drachm of sulphate of zinc to a pint of water, or equal-parts of