OS DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 385 This is the way to study medicine: but the physician who attends merely to his pharmacopoeia and prescriptions, which any tyro in the profession can do as well, neglects the true means of acquiring professional knowledge. (Jne point of dis- cussion at this consultation was, how the patient should live. I waited, as I wished to hear what the others had to say. “ Shall she live low? was asked:” “ Certainly not,” said Dr. Farre. I then said, “ I am very glad, sir, to hear that opinion come from you.” The conversation on the subject then began (Mr. Travers also was one of the gentleman present), and wt; all uni- formly agreed that what we had observed in every case of cancer or malignant tumour was, that in proportion as the patient is kept low, you precipitate her course to the grave ; this is uni- formly so, and I particularly dwell on it, in order to prevent your minds being poisoned by false doctrines. Many I have no doubt, believe an opposite mode of living to be the be t, and conceive that they have seen it to do good. They have tried it, and have thought the patient benefited, without taking into the account every concomitant circumstance which has had an in- fluence on the amelioration of the patient’s condition. The way to learn the effects of remedies, and different modes of living, is to try them without having entertained any preconceived opi- nion as to their efficacy. If a remedy is tried under the sup- position that it is sure to do good, the practitioner will soon think that it does. No ; the only plan is to watch impartially the ef- fect of medicines on the constitution, for in following the other way I have mentioned, you will kill more in youth than you will save in age. Climate has been supposed to have an effect in preventing that state of constitution which favours the return of the disease; 1 tell you it has no such influence. A person who has scirr- hous tubercle in England would receive no advantage by going to a warm climate, or by any change whatever. 1 will give you an instance, which will illustrate this point very well. A wo- man who was operated on in this country for a scirrhus of the brea.st, went soon after to the island of Tiinidad ; at the time she left England the wound had healed. Soon after she reach- ed Trinidad the tumour returned, and the glands of the axilla became enlarged. She was brought back to England, with her constitution extremely debilitated : at the time of her return it w„s winter; she soon sank, and died. Jn l:ingland this person 2c