347 O ER/.TION OF LITHOTOMY. years of age ; Mr. Attenburrow, of Nottingham, has operated on a person of eighty-six. 1 have operated on a patient of seventy- six, but never on one older ; this patient lived twelve years after- wards, and died at the age of eighty-eight ; tnerefore, old age is notan objection to the operation, unless there is an enlargement of the prostrate, when you must not operate. W ith respect to the very young, they are in considerable danger from the opera- tion. I mean chddren before they are four years old. After four they acquire strength, and the irritability of Uie constitution is much lessened ; under this age convulsions frequently come on after the operation ; and in three days the children often die, more especially if they have lost much blood at the time of the operation. I have operated on a child of one year and nine months, and it has recovered ; but very often indeed do convul- sioas come on after the operation for stone in the very young, which in most cases terminate existence. With regard to the uccess of the stone operation, it is quite certain, if the accounts published be correct, that the success lately has not been so great as it used to be. Of Cheselden’s operations, if I recollect aright only four in fifty-six failed. I\Ir. Martineau, of Norwich, has operated for stone with most extraordinary success. He has pub- lished a paper in the iUcdico-C/i/nirgicu/ Transactions, which is well deserving your attention ; no surgeon in I.ondon, I am cer- tain, can boast of similar success. The degree of success which is considered the most correct, is that taken from the result of the cases at the Norfolk and Norwich hospital. AVhen I was there, there were between two and three hundred cases registered ; all the calculi were preserved, together with an account of the dif- ferent operations forthe removal of each, and I then took an oppor- tunity of ascertaining what was the result of these cases. Since that time a more detailed account has been given by the late Dr. Alarcet, in his work on calculi, from which it appears that two in /ifteen died. W'ell, gentlemen, this is the result of the prac- tice at the Norwich and Norfolk hospital. Although I stated to you just now the result of the practice of two individuals (Che- selden and -Mr. Martineau), take care how you draw any deduction from particular cases. I, and many others also, have, for a length of time, met with extraordinary success !n operating for the stone, when four or five unsuccessful cases in succession have come, which have generally brought the result to the amount I men- tioned, viz., that two out of ffteen die. 1 should say, when it is