ON HERNIA. 217 its course in different persons ; here is a specimen (exhibiting oao to the class), so small that it has not emerged from the abdomi- nal ring, yet is as perfect as if it had been immediately below it. Here is another specimen (pointing to one on the table) vfhich reached to the knee. The largest hernia I ever saw was in the person of Mr. Gibbon the historian : combined with this was a large hydrocele, and in consequence of both complaints he was obliged to wear a peculiar dress. It sometimes happens that there are hernia with the external covering so thin that you are enabled to see the peristaltic motion of the intestines : this is not unfrequently the case in large hernia. I have seen the lower orifice of the stomach pulled down to the abdominal ring. Hernia varies as to its contents ; at one time it contains in- testines, at another omentum ; and here let me observe that intestines will be generally found in the hernia of children and that omentum is very rarely to be met with in the very young. I stated to you that there were several varieties, that the hernia sometimes enters the spermatic cord, and splits it into two parts; and that the spermatic artery and vein are before, and the vas deferens behind ; here is a specimen, however, (holding it in the hand) of the spermatic cor being split by a hernia, with the spermatic artery and vein on the outer, and vas de- ferens on the inner side; on this account, in large hernia, if the operation is performed, the opening is made in the upper and not the lower part; in large hernia a peculiar mode of operating is required. I have seen the bladder in a hernial sac ; this hap- pens in the oblique inguinal hernia more frequently than the direct. Sympt oms.—Now, gentlemen, I have given you the anatomy of inguinal hernia, I next come to the symptoms and diagnostic marks of this disease. If you were asked how you would know a hernia, what an- swer would you give ? Why hernia is to be known when it acts with the abdominal muscles, dilates and expands on coughing; 2dly, from its course, beginning from above and gradually de- scending ; 3rdly, when the person is placed in the recumbent posture the hernia returns; and then by these three.means will you be assisted in detecting the hernia. Its reduction in the re- cumbent position is a striking mark of distinction, but not without except on ; and besides, if it is a hernia, when the intestine goes