517 SPASMODIC AFFECTIONS. Fxtravasation of Urine from burstino of tiif. Urethra. This can never happen without the grossest neglect on the part of either the medical man or the patient, unless, indeed, the pa- tient be in a situation where he cannot obtain medical assistance ; as individuals, for example, on board ships that do not carry sur- geons. It is a very dangerous complaint, and one that is always to be dreaded. I wish there was some legislative enactment to compel the commander of every vessel going a voyage of any distance, to take a surgeon with him. If such a law were in force, we should see very few cases of this description, for the subjects of them are generally unfortunate sailors, who have been so situated that they were incapable of procuring medical advice. You may see these poor fellows brought into the hos- pital in the most horrid condition from rupture of the urethra, and the escape of the urine into the cellular membrane of the surrounding parts; the scrotum, in these cases, is of a purple colour, and extremely distended. You probably make an inci- sion m the scrotum, for the purpose of discharging the urine : sometimes this will be successful ; but, at others, the entire scro- tum will slough, together with a considerable portion of the sur- rounding parts: nor is this always the worst that happens, for it frequently terminates in death. All these calamities might have been prevented by proper treatment; and when you see a case of this description, you should immediately make into the scrotum an incision of at least two inches in length ; this incision should be in a direction upwards, and backward towards the nates ; this opening will permit the urine to escape, and the irritation and inflammation which commonly take place, would be, by this simple practice, completely obviated. This, then, is the method you are to adopt: —make a free incision, for the purpose of allow- ing the extravasated urine to flow out; attend to the stricture which was the cause of the accident, and your patient will stand a fair chance of recovery. Where patients have surgical attend- ants, I again repeat, that this accident ought never to occur. I shall now say a few words to you respecting Spasmodic and iNPt.AMMATonv Strictures. The spasmodic stricture is usually, I believe, more or less connected with permanent stricture ; and 1 am of opinion that the spasms commonly attack the muscular part of the urethra. Spasmodic stricture may arise from various causes, and attacks individuals of all ages: so recently as yesterday, I saw a little