ON HERNIA. 233 cases, an inch and a half or two inches above the abdominal ring, according to the size of the hernia j the stricture is some- times, but rarely, occasioned by a membranous band across the sac ; or by a portion of omentum becoming entangled with the intestine. Knowing these facts, you will be able to contend with whatever appearances you may meet with in cases for which you are required to operate. You niU be asked, gentlemen, what is the cause of strangula- tion in intestinal hernia 1 It will not be a sufficient answer to say, that a portion of intestine has descended into the sac ; because it often happens that strangulation is produced, although only a single convolution has descended, and this convolution being elongated, does not occupy any additional space in the mouth of the hemitu The fact is, that the additional portion of intestine, though it consist only of a single volume, brings down with it a portion of mesentery, which added to the piece of intestine pre- viously descended, so completely occupies the space of the open- ing as to produce the symptoms of strangulation. This is the reason why hernia often becomes strangulated in consequence of very slight efforts ; in lifting a weight a small portion of intes- tine may descend, and this bringing with it a portion of mesentery, produces strangulation. In omental hernia you will readily un- derstand how strangulation is produced, because any portion of omentum which descends must occupy an additional space. Of the Teeatment of Strangulated Hernia. V\Tien a person has strangulated hernia, he has no hope of safety but in returning the intestine into the cavity of the abdo- men ; this, therefore, must be your first object, except in one or two cases, which I shall hereafter have occasion to mention. In order to effect this object of returning the hernia into the cavity of the abdomen, you are to employ what is called the taxis. 1 he taxis is a particular kind of pressure on the hernia, which is to be performed in the following manner—You are to embrace the lower part of the hernia with your hand, elevate it gently, and push it towards the abdominal ring ; having done this with one band, you are to put the finger and thumb of the other on the part just above the abdominal ring, and knead it gently by a suc- cessive motion of the finger and thumb, until you at last obtain a passage for a small portion of intestine or omentum through the •trictured part into the abdomen. When by this process you have gradually insinuated a small