ON ERYSIPELAS, 122 pearance three days after the operation, and all the cxertioas of Dr. Baillie and myself were unable to arrest its progress. Thus a trifling operation on the scalp destroyed life, in consequence of having been succeeded by erysipelatous inflammation. After a person has once had this disease, he is very subject to it again j and some persons appear to be predisposed to its formation. It generally makes its appearance in spring and autumn, but seldom in winter, and not very often in summer. Whatever ren- ders the body irritable predisposes to erysipelas. In hospital practice, surgeons were formerly exceedingly afraid to operate in autumn and spring ; for it has often happened that the stimulating effects of adhesive plaister have produced this disease, and have led to the death of the patient. Sometimes it is epidemic, and sometimes contagious. Treatment of Erysipelas.—In this town the following plan is pursued, and which,_/br London, is undoubtedly the best:—You at first give calomel, for the purpose of restoring the secretions of the liver and intestines ; then allow a generous diet, and ad- minister the ordinary tonics ; or, from what I have witnessed, I would advise you to try the sulphate of quinine; it is a most powerful tonic, excites in the stomach a genial warmth, and will often remain in that organ when bark will not. Dr. Marcet, now deceased, but late a physician of Guy’s, en- deavoured to ascertain whether the antiphlogistic or tonic mode of treatment was best fo/' this disease ; therefore he put two per- sons, having erysipelas, into adjoining beds ; to one of whom were given tonics and a generous diet ; to the other salines aind low diet; blood likewise was abstracted from the latter j they both recovered, the former rapidly, while the latter lingered in a de- bilitated state for a very considerable period. You will find, where erysipelas attacks the lower ordere of this town, who weaken their constitutions by the excessive use of ardent spirits, that gin may be sometimes advantageously employed as a remedy, at once being the evil and its cure ; the last two cases of this dis- ease which I saw in the other hospital, prove the truth of what I am now saying : a man had erysipelas dreadfully severe ; his head swollen to an enormous size, and his recovery, by every person, thought impossible. It was discovered, one day that his wife brought him some gin. lie declared that he was better from having drank it, was consequently permitted its