ON HERNIA, 224 Ody’s trusses to the class.) This truss answers extremely well in all cases, except one. It sometimes happens that you meet with a hernia which you find it exceedingly difficult to sup- port, and in which none of the varieties of spring trusses will suc- ceed. Some years ago, when I lived in the city an elderly gentle- man came to me wiih a hernia which could not be supported by any of the trusses commonly employed. It struck me that a man named Goldfinch had taken out a patent for a truss, which, as you see, (the learned professor exhibited of the trusses) is a simple leathern belt, with springs of twisted wire. I sent for one of these trusses, and it succeeded completely in keeping in the abdomen a hernia for which every other had been tried unsuc- cessfully. A person in Kent, who had himself taken out a patent for a truss, was the subject of hernia. He tried a great variety of trusses, but could not succeed in keeping his hernia in the ab- domen. Mr. Edwards sent this person to me, and I advised him to try one of these trusses, which proved successful. The contrivance and the mode of applying the truss are ex- tremely simple. You place the pad on the hernia, pass the band round the abdomen, and fasten it on the pad ; another pad goes round the inside of the thigh, and is fastened on the same pad. By this simple contrivance the worst hernia, if reducible, may be supported.. You will be asked by the patient when you have applied the truss, how long he is to wear it; tell him to wear it at least two years. He will then ask you whether he is likely to be cured at the end of that time; your answer must be that this will depend upon his age. A young person is generally cured at the end of two years, but it will be advisable that he should continue to wear the truss for three years. If the person be not young, there is not much hope of effecting the cure of hernia by wearing a truss. Even in these cases, however, a gradual diminution, and some- times a reduction, of the hernia is effected by the wearing of a truss. Mr. Gaitskell sent me an elderly patient with strangulated hernia, which was situated above the abdominal ring, and was extremely small. This patient told me that the hernia was for- merly so large that it was in his purse, meaning that it had des-