OK CHANCRE. different persons, also in the same person under different degree* of irritation, and as it is accompanied by more or less of inflam- mation ; and every one who’has seen any thing of practice in his profession must know, that secondary symptoms occasionally ap- pear after sores, which, at the time, he was led to suppose were not syphilitic. I could say in an instant when a sore had a sy- philitic action ; but still a sore may not have the character of syphilis, and yet be so. We shall now trace the varieties of chancre, and the causes which more frequently produce them. The first circumstance which gives rise to variety in the appearance of chancre is—1st. When the chancre is produced by the application of the vene- real virus to a surface that is broken. Now, if the poison be applied to a sore, or an excoriation, it produces ultimately a syphilitic action, as is witnessed afterwards in bubo and secondary symptoms ; but it is a long time before the venereal action is ex- cited, and in these cases, you will find that the sore has neither a surrounding hardness, nor a livid colour. When chancre is produced by the application of the virus to an excoriation or tear, you must be contented to judge of its character from other circumstances ; it may have the appearance of being syphilitic, but you must hesitate before you give a positive opinion—it re- quires time to decide it, and you may say to the patient, that there is considerable doubt as to the nature of the sore; it may be simply an excoriation, or, on the other hand, it may be a sy- philitic sore: your best plan is merely to apply simple applica- tions to the part, and wait, if it be syphilis, till secondary syrop- toms appear, when you must have recourse to mercury for the treatment of the complaint. This is one of the varieties caused by the application of the venereal poison to an excoriation or tear, preventing you from forming an accurate judgment on the first appearance of the sore. I tell you what I generally in- quire of patients under these circumstances, viz. whether they observed the sore on the following day after connexion. If they say “ Yes,” the probability is, that it is not syphilitic, but it is no infallible criterion ; therefore treat the sore as you would any other, by common means at first, and wait the issue, to see whe- ther it is venereal or not. Another circumstance, producing a variety in the appearance, is its seat. Chancre situated on the frtenuin is different to what has been described as attacking the other parts •, it generally happens that a chancre in this situation