ON INFLAMMATION OF THE IRIS. 299 slight causes; it occasionally happens to those who have been under the influence of mercury, and in persons of a sciofulous diathesis, or when mercury has been pushed to an undue extent. Iritis has, in consequence of its occurring so frequently after syphilis, been classed as a secondary symptom of that com- plaint ; I have, I must say, considerable doubt on the subject, for I have never met with it in a person labouring at the same time under any other secondary symptoms of syphilis, with eruptions or nodes on the bones ; and also I have never met with a case of iritis after syphilis but when mercury had been pre- viously given, and therefore I cannot say whether the inflamma- tion of the iris was the effect of the mercury, or of the original disease for which it was given. Iritis is not unfrequently accompanied by inflammation of the tunics of the eye, what may be called ophthalmitis, or deep-seated inflammation of the globe of the eye. In this complaint the sclerotic appears red- dened—the cornea is dull, and the capsule of the lens itself becomes opaque- -all these participate in the inflammation. There is deposition of lymph on the edges of the iris, and there are also adhesions of it in some places to the crystalline lens. The sclerotic coat, however, is particularly inflamed ; the vessels may be seen carrying the blood in a straight course, while those of the conjunctiva are tortuous. There is pain in the eye, into- lerance of light; all these symptoms, together with a turbid state of the humours, are sufficient to inform one of the pre- sence of inflammation of the sclerotic coat; the patient also labours at the same time under great febrile excitement. This inflammation is often attended by a disorganization of the organ. The result of this severe form of inflammation, if it be not checked, is effusion of lymph or matter into the anterior chamber of the eye, producing what is technically called hypo- jjium. In these cases the matter may be easily observed, and sometimes there is so much as to conceal the edges of the pupil and the iris. Treatment.—Of course the first part of the treatment will be, to relieve the irritation of the part by blood-letting, both general and local; and, in fact, all the steps of depletion must be adopted as in other inflammations of the eye. But there is one remedy above all others in this complaint on which you are to rely, and that is mercury ; it must be given so as to affect the constitution, til) the gums and mouth are sore, or the saliva begins to flow, which will be the signs of it. In iritis this