348 INSTRUMENTS USED IN LITHOTOMY, Stated that one in twelve only died formerly, what operator now is more successful tlian this with the greatest care, even with a selection of his cases, and with very extensive experience 1 Pa- tients should not be sent away from the hospitals before they are quite well, for if they are, and they die, then the death of the pa- tient is attributed to the operation. Instruments used in Lithotomy What you require for the operation is a table, about two feet six inches high, and bandages to fasten the hands to the feet, and to draw the knees towards the body; you should give the pa- tient an injection the day before the operation, and the rectum should be completely emptied, otherwise it will be in danger of being opened in the operation. . The first instrument that it will be necessary to consider is the sound ; this should be of a large size. The sound, however, should be fitted to the size of the urethra ; for if a small sound be used in a large urethra, or a large sound in a small one, the stone will very often escape being felt. You should sound the bladder, both when it is full and when empty. When a person comes to me with symptoms of stone, I order him to lie on some chairs, and sound him ; but if I cannot discover a stone, I then ask him how long it is since he made water ; if he says an hour or two, I direct him to void his urine ; and it has frequently happened that 1 have felt a stone as the water was discharging, when I had not been able to do it before. In these cases I used a catheter, putting my finger over the orifice, and moving the instrument across the blad- der ; if the stone is not to be felt, I take away my finger, and then it frequently happens that as urine escapes, the stone strikes against it. Now, gentlemen, if a person says that a stone may be readily felt when it is in the bladder, I would ask any surgeon who has had the least experience, to confess honestly whether he has not sounded a patient for stone, and has been unable to find one, when another surgeon has detected it in a moment* It hap- pened to myself, it happens to all. A patient came to me who had been sounded twice by as good a mechanical surgeon as any I know in London (though, by the bye, a mechanical surgeon is only half a surgeon), and the stone had escaped his observation, yet, on introducing the sound I immediately felt it. If there is an enlargement of the prostate, the point of the sound frequent- ly strikes against it, or passes over it, and in those cases the stone commonly escapes being felt.