ON SUPl’LUAllON. rn But these instances must be considered as additional argu- ments in favour of pus being a secretion. Suppuration is not without its advantages; in two points of view it is very important. 1st. By forming a covering to granulating surfaces, thereby preventing the granulations from becoming dry through the influence of the air; for, if they were not kept moist they could not push forward. 2dly. The suppurative process is the means resorted to by nature for effecting the escape of extraneous bodies : thus a ball, by its pressure, gives rise to suppuration, and ultimately is discharged, excepting in such cases as we have before described, where it remains encased by adhesive matter. Some wounds are very troublesome, and, do what we will, we caimot get them to heal. Now and then it happens, if you discontinue your dressings to such sores, and let their surfaces remain exposed to the air, incrustations or scabs will form ; under these pus will be secreted, which, by keeping the granu- lations constantly moist, will often cause ulcers of this descrip- tion to heal, when all artificial attempts have been completely unsuccessful. When the constitution has been long accustomed to a dis- charge from an ulcer, some caution is requisite when healing it; for, if done too suddenly, hectic or apoplectic symptoms are very apt to supervene. Ancient surgeons observed these; to obviate which they were in the habit of making issues in other parts of the body at the time of healing old sores. Quantities of matter, constantly discharging for a considerable period, inevitably act on the constitution as sources of depletion ; and which, if suddenly discontinued, we may reasonably imagine would produce the symptoms before stated. There is no necessity, however, for issues to prevent them, as purgative medicines will answer much better, and speedily carry from the system, by a natural channel, any increase of its fluids. Mr. Wilson, formerly a lecturer on anatomy in this town, in his younger days was for a long while annoyed by a spitting of blood, which threatened him with an attack of pulmonary con- sumption ; at length an ulcer fonned upon his arm, and shortly after the bleeding from the lungs ceased. 'The sore was an exceedingly obstinate one, and resisted for a great length of