0\ GOXORRHCF.AL RHEUMATISM, ETC. J(39 employed, and gradually increased to a drachm. The best injec- tion is that with the oxymuriate of mercury—about a quarter of a grain to three ounces of water will be quite sufficient to begin with ; it may be increased after a time, from half a grain to an ounce. If it should not, however, be productive of any good, in the proportion of half a grain to an ounce of water, do not use it any stronger, for it is likely to produce considerable irritation ; in general it is an excellent injection. The sulphates of copper and rinc, and caprum ammoniatum, have been recommended ; each has had its advocates. The plan of treatment which I have laid down, is the one I have found the most effectual myself; it is ge- nerally certain in its effect, and alwarys safe to employ. There are two diseases produced from gonorrhoea, which may be called GoNORRHCEAL RllEUMATrSM AND GoNORRIKEAL OpHTtrALMIA. The first of these affections is not an unfrequent disease. I will give you the history of the first case I ever met with ; it made a strong impression on my mind. An American gentle- man came to me with a gonorrhoea ; and after he had told his story, I smiled, and said to him—do so and so—(particularizing the treatment), and that he would soon be belter ; but the gen- tleman stopped me, and said, “ not so fast, sir; a gonorrhoea with me is not to be made so light of, it is no trifle; for in a short time you will find me with inflammation in the eyes, and, in a few days after, I shall have rheumatism in the joints. I do not say this from the experience of one gonorrhoea only, but from that of two, and on each occasion I was afflicted in this I manner.” 1 begged him to be careful to prevent an)' gonorr- hoeal matter coming in contact with the eye, which he said he would. Three days after this I called on him, and he said, "now you may observe what I told you a day or two ago is true.” He had a green shade on, and there was ophthalmia in each eye. 1 desired him to keep in a dark room, to take active aperients, and apply leeches to the temples, in order to reduce the inflammation. In three days more he sent for me rather earlier than usual, for a pain in one of his knees (the left); it was stiff and inflamed. I ordered some application, and soon after the right knee became affected in a similar manner. The ophthalmia was with great difficulty cured, and the rheumatism continued many weeks afterwards. This case struck me very forcibly, and I asked Mr. Cline, with whom I was in the habit of frequently coming in contact, whether he had ever seen