ON HERNIA. 263 by other complaints j it has the situation of bubo j in some sub- jects it is small and very little moveable, and projects very slightly. Femoral hernia may be confounded with other di- seases, I assure you; therefore, all the ciicumstances connected with it should be particularly attended to. Now, gentlemen, if you dissect a femoral hernia to ascertain the appearances that are to be found, you will see, first, after laying open the skin, a structure which I described to you in the last lecture, the super-. Hcial fascia, a’few absorbent vessels will also be seen ; in conse- quence of the pressure of the hernia, the fascia is distinctly ob- servable to the eye, and is a structure of considerable density. Second^’, when you have cut through this fascia, the sheath of the femoral vessels becomes exposed, (fascia propria,) forming a complete bag, so as to close the hernia, let its size be what it may. Here is a femoral hernia (exhibiting a' specimen to the Class) with a sheath covering it, and which may be easily sepa- rated from its surface. Thirty years ago I did not know of the existence of this structure. Mr. Weston, a gentleman to whom 1 am indebted for a great many opportunities for pursuing morbid anatomy, sent for me one day to examine a person who had died of strangulated femoral hernia. After dissecting through the su- perficial fascia, I thought that I had come to the peritoneal sac. I cut through the structure, it was of considerable density ; but on examination I found it was not the peritoneum, but the crural sheath ; I then arrived at the peritoneal sac, after hav- ing first cut through the integuments, superficial fascia, and crural sheah; and in this subject I first became acquainted with the existence of this covering to femoral hernia. Alter having cut through the superficial fascia, in operating for fe- moral hernia, you will find in some subjects a quantity of fat. In the last case, gentlemen, operated on at these hospitals, after the opening was made through the superficial fascia, tha surgeon said, “ Here is omentum but, on examining more particularly, he found (hat he had not opened the hernial •ac, and then discovered that the substance mistaken for omen- tum was fat. There are two sacs of the same form covering fe- moral hernia : the first consisting of the elongation of the crural •heath, the second of the peritoneal covering. Every case of fe- moral hernia will be found to have a bag or coverine, formed of the crural sheath, except when the hernia has been so large that it has given way. Year after year I have met with cases of fe-