ON DISEASES OF THE EREAST. S70 and other parts of the body ; in the breast this kind of hydatid is occasionally found. The hydatid swelling at the beginning is of solid feel, and 1 know of no mark which distinguishes it in this state from that of chronic inflammation of the breast, or such as is produced by the retention of milk. -Now and then, although it is exceedingly rare, I have seen at the commencement a num- ber of little swellings, resembling peas in size, and containing water ; however, in general, there is no diagnostic mark at the onset, between this affection and the state produced by common inflammation of the breast. There is no pain in the part, except just prior to menstruation, when it becomes painful; at other times pain is absent. After the swelling has continued some little time, without any feeling of fluctuation in it, it may be divided into a solid and fluid part, and on putting the hand on it, you are able to say, “ Here it is solid, there fluid,” but all this time it is wholly unattended with pain. Another circumstance de- serving attention is that the skin is quite free from discoloration, excepting a little prior to ulceration, when the part about to ul- cerate changes colour. 'The complaint is entirely unaccompanied with constitutional derangement. At the time when ulceration commences, the constitution will be affected by irritable fever, the same as is always met with when the process of restoration is set up in any other part of the body. But the disease does not affect the constitution in any serious degree This swelling is first hard, in the second place, fluid; thirdly, unattended with pain ; and, fourthly, there is no particular constitutional irrita- tion, excepting when ulceration commences, and then it U slight and not at all alarming to the patient’s mind. This disease never requires removal on account of any thing malignant in its cha- racter, but it is generally done at the solicitation of the patient, in consequence of the inconvenience she experiences from the size and bulk of the breast. When it has acquired any considerable magnitude, a slight in- flammation begins in one part, and then this ulcerates, which al- lows of the discharge of a serous fluid. This being discharged and the cyst empty, suppuration, with partial adhesive inflamma- tion is set up, and the cyst becomes obliterated : another under- goes the same process, and so on, one after another. A sinus seems to form, which leads from that in a state of suppuration to another cyst, and thus it undergoes the same change as the one with which it communicates ; in other parts the , cysts do not.