ON IMPOTENCE. 679 charged by a suppurative process. But do not attempt this where the exostosis is excessively large ; but it may be done with safety if it be not more-than three or four inches in circumference. MoUites ossiiim is an affection of which we know very little. There appears to be a defect in the assimilating powers of the system, whereby the proper portion of phosphate of lime is not deposited; whereas, in rickets, there is an excess of cartilaginous material. What is often called mollites ossium, is only rickets, and should be treated accordingly. Of Impotence. .Although this affection has been arranged in the syllabus with the sequelae of gonorrhoea, yet I consider it a point of importance for you to become acquainted with, and shall speak therefore of the causes usually producing it. There are several causes which produce a destruction of the virile power. These may sometimes be traced to a peculiar sluggishness of constitution, to a general torpor of the procreative system, on which the usually attractive animal afiRnities exert no influence. To such persons a Venus might display her charms, and on such her son might e.xhaust his quiver in vain. No genial spring is here, no blooming summer or fruitful autumn, but all is winter—a dreary, desolate, and barren winter—in which the springs of life are frozen up, and the animal propensities destroyed. Some men are so constituted that they may be said never to possess a venereal stimulus, and some of the other sex are equally frigid. I knew a person who re- mained unwarmed by the flame from the hymeneal altar for seven years, and who was incapable of performing the duties which devolved on him. Gentlemen, it is likely you may hereafter be consulted on these subjects ; but these are some of the arcana of the profession into which you will not readily be admitted. No, it is not until you have contended long with popular prejudices that you will be made acquainted with such important secrets. When forty years of practice, or perhaps more, shall have rolled over you, when you shall have the snow on the tops of the mountains (here the esteemed professor, with great good humour, passed his hand through the white locks which grace a well-formed front), then it is, and not till then, that you will be required to give your opinion on such weighty matters! (A laugh.) When consulted by persons about to enter the marriage state, you should ask, if they have any development of sexu.il power in the morning, and if they have, depend on it they will not be deficient in energy