ON INFLAMMATUiN. 18 When matter is produced by inflammation of this texture, and is seated under it, great irritative fever succeeds until it is dis- charged ; as, for example, in the palms of the hands, or soles of the feet. When inflammation attacks muscles, it is known by the spas- modic twitchings which attend it. 'J’endons are not very sus- ceptible of inflammation, but they sometimes become inflamed to a considerable extent. Punctured wounds of tendons are apt to produce tetanus more than wounds of other parts of the body. Matter formed under tendons burrows to a great extent, and produces violent irritation, ais under the tendon of the occipito- frontalis muscle, and the covering of the temporalis. Inflammation in the absorbent vessels is marked by red lines on the skin in the course of these vessels. These form hard knots, from the skin participating in the inflammation. Their glands become also inflamed, and both glands and vessels occasionally suppurate. They more frequently inflame from common irrita- tion than the absorption of poisons. 'Tlie arteries are rarely inflamed, excepting after wounds, or the application of ligatures. Inflammation, however, of the ar- teries may be very extensive, when it occurs in a person w'hose health is very much deranged. I have knowm instances where it extended even to the heart. I was present when Mr. Cline opened tlie body of a man who had a ligature put on the femoral artery near the groin, and who died at the second week from the operation. The internal surface of the artery was inflamed, as was also that of the external and common iliacs, and the aorta was of a florid red internally, as far as the valves of the heart. Veins which are inflamed from wounds become like hard and broad cords, and extremely tender to the touch ; and if it occur from bleeding, it extends from the orifice to the axilla. I have seen several patients die from this cause j and on examination, the inner coats of the arteries have been generally found adher- ing. I have seen suppuration of a vein, and I once saw an ab- scess in the longitudinal sinus of the dura matter, of which we' have a beautiful specimen in the anatomical collection at St. Tlmmas’s Hospital. When inflammation of the veins is pro- duced by the application of ligatures on them, it will be found to be greater below the ligature than above it. JS erves are very rarely inflamed, but when they are, the pain