«4-0 ON HERNIA. cannot be too minute, and unless you are thoroughly acquainted, fifith it, you had better never attempt to operate in hernia at all This is not a disease in whicli a man imperfectly acquainted with the anatomy of the parts will be able to operate ; if his knowledge of their structure be not most accurate and minute, he will not be able to overcome the difficulties with which he may have to contend. Some gentlemen who now hear me may have witnessed the embarrassments of surgeons, who have come to the operation for strangulated hernia without a sufficient knowledge of anatomy. A surgeon unacquainted with the facts to which I have j>jst drawn your attention will make his incision upon the hernia, and as soon as he sees the fascia of the cord he will make a little cut dividing a few fibres, under which he will put a director, and proceed to make a slit upwards. Instead however, of coming to the hernial sac, as he expected, he will find something else to divide ; and in this state of embarrassment he will probably turn round for assistance, and ask what he should next do. Such a man, gentlemen, ought never to enter the operating theatre ; no man should attempt to perform an operation, if he is obliged to apply to others for assisUnce. Well, he will divide this covering: and still, not coming to the hernial sac, he will probably express his surprise at finding the hernia so completely buried. Gentlemen, if a surgeon is acquainted with the anatomy of the parts, he knows that there are, of necessity, two layers to divide before he comes to the hernial sac ; and that in direct inguinal hernia there is, besides the covenngs formed by the aponeurosis or fascia of the cord and the cremaster, a third covering, like the peritoneal bag, composed of the tendon of the transversalis and its fascia. There is a preparation on the table which will give you an opportunity of seeing the epigastric artery close to the mouth of the inguinal hernia, on the outer side. This species of hernia was first observed by Mr Cline, senior, in the year 1777, on opening the body of a person who had been a patient of Mr. Hawkes, of Chelsea. He was surprised to find the hernia on the inner side of the epigastric artery, and he was in the habit of mentioning this case in his lectures. This circumstance led others to observe this species of hernia, and it is now well known to occur occasionally. I cannot state exactly the proportions of cases oblique to those of direct inguinal her- nia. There is at this time, in the other hospital, a patient with fracture of the thigh-bone who has also direct inguinal hernia.