1 lO 0\ WOUWDS OF THE BRAIN. out of bed, and began to converse : and in a few days more ha was able to tell us where he came from. He recollected the cir- r.imstance of his having been pressed, and carried down to Ply- mouth or Falmouth ; but from that moment up to the time when the operation was performed (that is, for a period of thirteen months and some days) his mind remained in a state of perfect oblivion. He had drunk, as it were, the cup of Lethe; he had suffered a complete death, as far as regarded his mental and al- most all his bodily powers ; but by removing a small portion of the bone with the saw, he wa« at once restored to all the func- tions of his mind, and almost all the powers of his body. It appears, therefore, that in cases of depression we should not be prevented from trephining, however distant the period may be at which the accident occurred ; and the patient may, after any interval be restored to the powers of body and mind. LECTURE XVIII. On Wounds of the Brain. Wounds of the brain will often happen, without producing any interruption to the operations of either body or mind. But should the wound be accompanied by either compression or concussion, then the particular symptoms which characterise those injuries will be present. If, however, the wound be a simple incision or laceration, it will often prove quite harmless. Indeed it frequent- ly occurs that considerable portions of the brain are lost, and yet the mental and bodily functions continue unimpaired. Epilep- tic fits and hemiplegia certainly sometimes follow as effects ot such injuries ; but on the other hand, brain to a great extent has been lost without having been succeeded by disturbance of either the mental or bodily functions; numerous cases of this descrip- tion are upon record ; several have fallen under my own obser- vation. A case similar to the following likewise came under the notice of a surgeon at Brighton. A dresser of the late Mr. Chandler once came to me when I was in the other hospital, and said “ Look here. Sir,” at the same time showing me a portion of brain, with a piece of the pia mater attached to it. I went to see this man, and found the representation of the dresser correct; there was a laige transverse opening in the os frontis, through which a considerable quantity of brain had been lost. His mind was not at all affectea, neither were the bodily powers in the