ON ANEURISM. 163 you Will find a small tumour pulsating very strongly—muc h more strongly than in subsequent stages ;• for it may be taken as a general rule that llie force of the pulsation is in the inverse proportion of the size of the aneurism. When an aneurism is first formed, it contains only fluid blood ; and if you apply your finger to the artery between the aneurism and the heart, you will readily empty the aneurismal bag by the pressure. In this state there is scarcely any pain, and no other alteration in the limb than some irregularity of circulation producing spasm in the muscles ; and when the patient is going to rest, cramps in the legs, and sudden twitchings, w’hich prevent him from sleeping. The next state in which we find aneurism is, when the blood is beginning to coagulate in the interior of the sac, the coats of which are very considerably thickened. At this time, if you press on the artery, you may empty the sac in part: you will see the swelling re-produced when you take off the pressure. You cannot completely empty the bag by pressure, for a con- siderable degree of swelling will still remain. There is some degree of pain in the limb below in this stage of the disease, in consequence of the size of the swelling and the pressure on the surrounding parts. The aneurism becomes a solid swelling, instead of a mere bag containing fluid blood, and the circulation is retarded by the pressure on the surrounding pans. In the next stage the aneurism has acquired considerable mag ■ nitude, and the pulsation is in a great degree lost. Pulsation may be observed in some one part opposite to the opening from the artery, but it is seldom perceived over the whole swelling. A small portion of the blood still continues in a fluid state, but the greater part of it is filled with coagulum. In this state, if the aneurism be behind a joint, the motion of that joint becomes im- peded. Popliteal aneurism is one of very common occurrence ; there is an enlargement behind the knee, jiist at the bend of the joint, witn a pulsation ; the foot and leg of that side are swollen ; the swelling gradually increases, and the aneurism becomes of a dark colour ; inflammation of the cuticle covering the sac ensues, vesication of the cutis to the size of half-a-crown takes place, and the skin in this part is quite insensible. In a few days an eschar is formed, the bag opens; bleedings, one after another take place, apd the destruction of life is the consequence. What you read in books respecting the mode in which death is produced m these SI 2