391 ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. incisions are to be made beyond the discoloured or inflamed parts, for if you cut into the skin which has become reddened, it will, of course,'have taken on its peculiar morbid action, and the dis- ease will most unquestionably still continue to grow in that situa- tion. Therefore I particularly caution you never to introduce your knife into the integuments which surround fungoid tumours, should such integuments have become discoloured by the influ- ence of the disease. So, likewise, in amputations for fungoid diseases; if you do not operate at a sufficient distance from the seat of the malady, you will find that the granulations which form upon the surface of medullary structures, will possess a fungoid character, and ultimately put on every appearance ot the original disease. Very carefully, therefore, avoid cutting into parts in the vicinity of fungoid diseases ; and if you do not, depend upon it that your operations will be rarely suc- cessful. It is necessary for the purpose of promoting a favour, able issue of your operations, that you should attend to the state of the patient’s constitution, both before and after the opera- tion. With this view you should allow him a nutritious diet, pure air, and a reasonable proportion of exercise ; you should likewise prescribe for him, in the way of medicine, either the hydrargyrus cum creta, or Plummer’s pill, together with some bit- ter infusion, and soda. Local means are of very little service in this disease ; indeed, I believe, unless they are assisted by con- stitutional remedies at the same time, that they will prove utterly useless. Some practitioners rest their hope entirely on local ap- plications, but this is truly absurd, as it is next to impossible that a cure can be effected by them. It has been attempted to cure fungus hmmatodes, by causing it to slough, and it has been endeavoured to accomplish this by means of pressure, which destroys its circulation ; at the same time, however, that pressure is employed, you must carefully attend to the state of the patient’s general health ; for if you do not, your other efforts will be attended with disappointment. iVIuch has been said respecting the largeness of the vessels in these tumours; but if these vessels are large no danger ought to be apprehended from hemorrhage, as the bleeding can easily be stopped by means of pressure I'he fact is, that blood-vessels, situated in fungoid tumours, have no contractile power ; conse- quently, when they are cut into, or divided, the bleeding from them will continue for a considerable period, unless pressure be employed.