ON DISEASE OF THE TESTICLE, 426 fully employed for the purpose of healing fistulae in ano. A gentleman came to me with a very deep fistul® in ano; he hud been operated upon before, when a very alarming hemorrage fol- lowed the division of the sphincter ; the sinus was so deep, that it completely absorbed the probe ; under these circumstances, I was unwilling to perform the operation, except by gradually dividing the fistula an inch or two at a time. However, I told him that injections now and then succeeded, and I recommended him, therefore, to try the effect of an injection of port wine and water. A few days after, he injected port wine alone into the sinus, and the result was, that there was no further suppuration, but adhesion took place, as in the case of hydrocele. His cure was thus completed without an operation. Fistulae are some- times cured by the introduction of a ligature, which gradually cuts through the part. A thread is passed through the sinus, brought out by the rectum, and tied very lightly. Many persons will not submit to the operation of being cut for fistula, but prefer endur- ing pain much greater than any occasioned by the operation. In such cases the introduction of a ligature will sometimes prove successful. t LECTURE XLVIII. In this evening’s lecture I shall show you the operation of cas- tration, first describing to you the diseases of the testicle which occasionally render such an operation necessary. The first dis- esae of the testicle which I shall describe to you, is that in which hydatids or cysts are formed within it. This is a disease of no very unfrequent occurrence, and it affects the young rather than those who are advanced in years. It begins at the extremity of the epidydimis where it joins the testicle : there is an enlargement of the part which extends through the epidydimis towards the vas deferens, and from the epidydimis to the body of the testicle. The disease is never attended with pain unless it acquires a very con- siderable magnitude. The spermatic cord is a little varicose, but not hard ; the spermatic veins are larger than usual. There is very little inflammatory tendency, and the patient can bear the part to be roughly handled without pain. At the first glance the disease bears very much the appearance of hydrocele. There is very little diflference in the state of the spermatic cord, except that it is somewhat more vascular than usual. The