151 ON VOUNDS OP THF BRAIN ran lo the spot, and found that there was a small wound of the seal p, and thinking that there was no injury to the brain, she bound it up : but a week afterwards pain in the head came on, toge- ther with great constitutional irritation and the child was brought to me. On examining the head, I found that a circular incision had been made in the bone, and that matter issued through the opening. I said to the mother: If the child is not better by to- morrow, bring it to me again, and I will allow a more free open- ing for the matter to discharge itself. The next day the child was brought to my house, and I performed the operation of trephin- ing, when I found there was an opening in thp dura mater and pia mater, corresponding to that of the bone ; the symptoms of irritation were relieved by the operation, those of compression, however came on, and in three days from the time it was per* fonned, the child died. On examining the part after death, I found that there was a circular incision of the dura mater, the edges of which were hardened and thickened, as yon eee here (pointing to the very part), a similar state of the pia mater and brain, in size corresponding to the external opening, and an abscess between the pia mater and brain. At that time 1 had no idea that a wound of the description I have just mentioned could be produced by a bird of this size ; but, since that period, 1 have seen an instance of a similar kind : a pheasant, not an English, but an Indian one, made a dart towards the eye of a person, and, instead of striking it, wounded the os mal®; the bird, by means of its beak, struck a hole into the superior maxil- lary bone, just below the zygomatic arch. The time ai /vhich inflammation of the brain supervenes after the injury received, is generally about a week : rarely under that lime; and this it was that led me to say, on another oc- casion, that inflammation of the brain was more slow in its oc- currence than that of any other organ, in order to put you on your guard. It often happens that inflammation of the brain does not come on till a fortnight, or even three weeks, after the injury : therefore, every surgeon who has written on the subject puts you on your guard as to the distance of time this complaint comes on after the accident: he tells you that the patient is not safe till two or three weeks afterwards. If you read the works ofMr. Pott on the injuries of the head, you will find the circumstance mentioned; and in the work or Mr. Dease of Dublin (who has published an excellent treatise on the subject), it is distinctly stated, thatinflsm-'