I 5f52 ON SLOUGHING BUBO, Sloughing Bubo. If meroury be continued whilst the bubo is suppurating, as'soon as ulceration takes place the sloughing process will follow, and extend over a considerable portion of the cellular tissue. De- struction of life in these cases is caused in two modes. Here are two specimens (exhibiting them to the class) taken from persons who died of sloughing bubo. In one, the femoral artery, vein, and sartorius muscle, are laid bare to a considerable extent. The one died from irritation produced by the sloughing process ; the other from hemorrhage, caused by ulceration of the femoral ar- tery. Thus destruction takes place from two causes, from the extent of the sloughing process, and hemorrhage from the open- ing of the femoral artery. A person with sloughing bubo died in the hospital, about three years ago, from hemorrhage. In these cases you generally see that there is something faulty in the constitution, or that the patient has been injudiciously treated: as to the treatment of the sloughing bubo, it is the same as in the sloughing chancre. Abandonment of mercury, exhibition of am- monia with opium, and a generous diet, so as to give vigour to the constitution, without exciting any febrile action ; that is the con- stitutional plan of treatment which you should employ, and the local treatment principally consists in the application of the nitric acid wash, about fifty drops of the acid to a quart of water. It sometimes happens when the gland suppurates, and the slough- ing process is going on, that secondary symptoms appear ; it is not right to give mercury in consequence of their appearance, but you order the patient to take the compound decoction of sarsaparilla. When the sloughing process is stopped, and the wound is well, give mercury if the secondary .symptoms remain ; then, and not till then, ought you to attempt the cure of the disease by the ex- hibition of mercury. When the sloughing process stops, and there are no secondary symptoms, do not give mercury. It is never right to employ it as it were by speculation ; it will not destroy the venereal virus, although it is not in action, and will not prevent the appearance of the disease. Mr. Hunter was the first who pointed this out, that syphilis could not be prevented from appearing by the exhibition of mercury ; and most surgeons state, that it is best not to give mercury in expectation of the ap- pearance of the disease, but to wait till it does appear. I give you this rather as Mr. Hunter's opinion than my own ; there are some points connected with this subject which 1 shall speak of when