ON PARAPH YMOSIS. 651 poultices \vc generally employ are made with stale beer-grounds; carrot poultices is stimulating to the part: this poultice stimu- lates rather loo much, unless the canots have been boiled for a long time. The medicines we give are musk and ammonia, five grains of the ammonia with ten of musk, two or three times a- day. The nitric acid lotion is a common application used in these hospitals, and we find none produce so much good ; the proportions are about forty drops of undiluted acid, to a quart of water. \Vhen phymosis remains after the inflammatory state has passed away, it will be necessary to perform an operation for its cure. The operation is exceedingly simple, it consists in intro- ducing a director beneath the skin, along the glans, till it reaches the corona gland^; this is the extent to which it should be introduced, so that the point should rest against the inside of the prepuce; this being done, a sharp-pointed bistoury is to be passed along the director to its extremity, then pushed through the skin opposite to the corona glandis, and drawn out. But when you have done this, you will find that the internal part of the prepuce is not divided as much as the external, which you are obliged to divide a second time. The next thing you do, is to apply a piece of lint round the prepuce, which is to be sup- ported on the penis by tape ; the roller should be applied, so as to make gentle pressure, for the purpose of preventing a secre- tion from the blood-vessels. You let the patient remain as long as he ean without making water, in order not to disturb the dressings. When you see him on the following day, you soak the penis in warm water, remove the lint, and draw the prepuce gently over the glans. This you should do daily, taking care that the edges of the divided surfaces do not unite. When the part is quite healed, a small aperture only is left in the upper part of the prepuce, which is of very trifling importance. LECTURE LXII. Wf. spoke, gentlemen, at the conclusion of the last lecture, of phyrnosls; we shall now proceed to paraphymosis. Bauaphymosis Is not an uncommon conse(]uence of chancre. When there is tightness of the prepuce from inflammation, it frequently happens, that after the skin has been pulled back, it cannot again be drawn over the penis, on account of the skin forming a tight ligature