678 ON SYPHILIS and the use of mercury. case I ever witnesse<I; mercury was again given to her, when both parent and chihl perfectly recovered. Since the occur- rence of the above case, I have witnessed several similar ones, in each of wnich the secondary symptoms could not be completely cured during the pregnant state. I think, however, that a preg- nant woman may be cured of the primary syphilitic symptoms, although not of the secondary. The next question I have put down in my notes to this — Does much injiammation usually attend Syphiltsl—No direct answer can be given to this question, for the degree of inflam- mation which attends it is proportioned to the healthy or irrita- ble state of the patient. In a healthy person the venereal dis- ease is slow in its progress, and but little inflammation accom- panies it: on the other hand, in the irritable person it is rapid in its progress, and accompanied by considerable inflammatory action ; therefore, the differences which characterbe the syphili- tic disease in various persons do not arise from any peculiarity of the poison itself, but from the peculiar condition of the per- son on whom it falls ; exactly similar to what often happens in small-pox : two men receiving the infection from the same indi- vidual shall have the disease, one particularly mild, while, in the other, it is of a malignant confluent kind ; therefore, the de- gree of inflammation, or manifestations of violence, which mark the course of the disease, are not to be attributed to any peculi- arity existing in the poison, but solely from the particular con- dition of the infected person. Although syphilis is not at first a malignant, yet it must always be considered a serious complaint, and should command the most decided attention. 1 hough not at first malignant, consisting merely of chancre or bubo, it soon becomes so, and, unless its progress be checked, it will be marked by the secondary symptoms, which I have already described. Therefore, in answer to the question just now put, what I should say is this—one constitution, upon receiving the venereal pobon, will have in it a considerable degree of inflammatory action excited, quickly leading to the destruction of life, whilst another constitution will scarcely be influenced by the reception of the venereal poison. The question I ask myself is, II hcther there is any Constitutional Affection produced in Syphilitic Disease t I am again compelled to say, that that great authority, Mr. Hun- ter, is also wrong here; for he has stated that the dbease b