ON HERNIA. taxia; the patient must be placed on the bed, with the shoulders eievated, the knees bent at right angles to the body, and approxi- mated 10 each other, so as to admit an arm only between; then you employ pressure on the hernia. The hernia is to be pressed directly downwards, in order to get it below Poupart’s ligament j it you press it upwards, without having first done this, you will merely get it farther above the ligament. It must first be brought below the level of Poupart’s ligament, and then kneaded between the fingers, and pressed upwards. The form of femoral is dif- ferent, as 1 explained to you, from that of inguinal hernia. By this drawing (here the learned professor drew a diagram of the state of the parts) you see that the body -of femoral hernia is turned upwards and forwards over the neck, and nearly at right angles to it above Poupart’s ligament, and it would be mere folly to press it upward till it has first been brought downwards, as the hernia would only be doubled the more on itself. Having fail- ed in your attempt at the taxis, you employ the tobacco injection, bleed the patient, and use the the warm bath. No time, how- ever, is to be lost in femoral, as there is less chance of reducing it than in inguinal hernia. These means failing, you must resort to the operation ; it is a case in which delay occasions much mis- chief. I will now show you, as far as I am able, the operation for femoral hernia, but we shall not have the same advantages now as on the other occasion. Not having a femoral hernia- to perform the operation on, I have introduced a piece of intestine under Poupart’s ligament, and formed a hernia, which, I believe, will answer the purpose. In operating for femoral hernia, you make the first incision in the course of Poupart’s ligament, along the tumour, extending from one side to the other; the second you make at right angles to the first, towards the umbilicus, so that the two in- cisions resemble the letter x inverted ; the angular flaps are to be next dissected off, and reflected, so as to allow of greater room. By this incision you expose the superficial fascia, which you next divide, and the hernial bag, called by some fascia propria, is brought into view. This is next cut through, and the hernial sac, or peritoneal covering makes its appearaace. 1 will relate to you a case which shows what happens when a person is unacquainted with the structure of the parts. Many years ago a paUent had symptoms of strangulated femoral hernia, which