374 ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. (as the patient says, by accident) of a hard and moveable swell- ing j now and then a little blood is discharged from the nipple, which stains the shift; this is produced by the inflammation ex- tending along one of the lactiferous tubes, and thus blood is discharged. The swelling is attended with little pain. At first it is moveable, free from pain, and circumscribed. In this last respect there are varieties ; it sometimes happens that the inflam- mation extends, and the disease is lost in the surrounding partr, yet it generally happens that you can mark out the exact situa- tion of the tumour. In this case it continues a long time, foi weeks and months gradually increasing, and at last the second set of symptoms come on. A violent darting pain is felt in the breast; the patient says it is like a knife or lancet being pushed into it, there is also a burning sensation in the part, and the patient feels worse a little before menstruation—about four days before that period; indeed if you trace the disease, you will see that for the first fortnight after the periodical discharge the symptoms are /ess severe, but that for the last fortnight, and a little before the show of the menses, the pain is excessive ; it is not a continued ain, but comes at times, and is so severe as to make the pa- tent start from the chair. I should say that the increase of the size of the breast is not equal, and that it does not follow any regular progression ; it increases by starts ; prior to menstrua- tion it gains in size ; after the menses have appeared, it again loses. The next circumstance is, that the glands in the axilla begin to enlarge, or those between the axilla and breast. The skin around the nipple has a puckered appearance ; it is drawn in at the centre, and is elevated on the sides. This gives the part an appearance resembling that produced by ulceration and cicatrization ; the skin is drawn in, and thus it presents the ap- pearance of cicatrization without the reality. In the progress of he complaint a number of small black spots will be seen on the breast, and these increase as the breast enlarges. In the second stage, inflammation on the skin and nipple comes on, and the cellular membrane partakes of the character of the disease. I nave seen scirrhous of the skin as well marked as that of any other part. The third set of symptoms arises from suppuration going on in the part, for the breast undergoes the same process as any other part affected with cancerous disease. It is not true that pus is in general secreted, but after the adhesive process has been set up, there is an attempt at the formation of pus, which.