654 FRACTURES OF THE NECK OF THE THIGH-BONE. this change has taken place; now, where is the neck of this thigh- bone ? Can you see it ? No, I am sure you cannot, for it has gone to the tomb of all the Capulets. I must defer speaking of the treatment of these accidents until the next lecture. .LECTURE LXXIII. On Fractures of the Neck of the Thigh-Bone. Gentlemen, I shall now speak of the treatment of fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone, within the capsular ligament. Nu- merous measures have been adopted for the purpose of producing an ossific union of this fracture, both by myself and others, but all to no purpose. Disappointed in the attempt, and finding the patient’s health suiFer from the necessary confinement, what I now direct to be done is, that a pillow be placed under the limb, throughout the whole length, and another be put under the knee, and the limb be in this way extended for ten days or a fortnight, until the inflammation has subsided. Then let the patient got out of bed, and sit on a high chair, to prevent the limb being too much bent, afterwards walk with crutches, bearing gently at first on the foot, then increase the pressure more and more, until the ligament becomes thickened, and the power of the muscles in- creased. Next, let him use a shoe with a high heel, which would very much diminish his lameness. The patients treated in this way, as you have an opportunity of observing, walk after a few days with crutches, then with a stick, and in a few months re- quire no additional support. But in all cases in which the slight- est doubt may be entertained, whether the fracture be wiihin or without the capsule, it is much better to treat them as if they were external to the capsule, and which fraciures will unite by bone Of Fractures external to the Capeule, and when the neck of the bone is driven into the cancellated structure of the trochanter major; this accident is marked by the leg being from half to three quarters of an inch shorter than the other. The foot and toe are everted, much pain is felt at the hip, and on the inner and upper part of the thigh, and the usual rotundity of the joint is lost. The first diagnostic mark of this fracture is, that it happens in the young, and in persons under fifty years of age; although I have known it later.- But, if the symptoms which I have before