ox DISEASE 0>' THE TESTICLE. 427 disease is confined to the testicle and epidydimis, and there is no iniiance of its having extended to the spermatic cord or any other part of tlie body. It generally attacks young persons between the age of seventeen and thirty ; the most advanced period of life at which I have seen it is thirty-eight. It attacks persons, therefore, at that period of life at which they are most anxious that these parts should be perfectly free from disorder. The na- ture of this disease, as it appears on dissection, is strikingly illus- trated in a beautiful preparation on the table; you will there see bags of various sizes formed in every part of the testicle; the smallest not larger than a pin’s head, and the largest about the size of a marble. The cysts consist of cellular tissue, not of glandular structure ; and the testicle is entirely oblilerated, every portion of the seminiferous tubes being absorbed by pressure. A great number of hydatids contain water only ; some, water tinged with yellow serum ; and others, opaque mucus, which, when the cyst is opened, is found adhering to its inner side. The opera- tion of castration is sometimes required for this disease on account of its magnitude ; the patient being unable to conceal the disease, IS incapable of going into society, and will frequently intreat that the operation may be performed. It is not on account of the pain that he suffers, or any apprehensions that the surgeon need entertain, but on account of the inconvenience to which a patient is exposed, that the operation is usually performed. The const! - tion of the patient is entirely unaffected by the complaint; in- deed I have generally seen it in patients enjoying the most vigor- ous health. A man, in every other respect in perfect health, will come up from the country to have the operation performed, and return immediately after it to his accustomed avocations. I am not aware of any instance in which, after the operation, the disease has returned, either in the spermatic cord or in the other testicle. The disease is entirely local and unattended with danger. SciRRiius OP THE Testicle. TTie next disease of the testicle to which I shall direct your attention is scirrhus, similar to that which attacks the breast. True scirrhus of the testicle is an extremely rare complaint, and I am afraid many testicles have been removed under the suppo- itition of their being scirrhous, which might have been saved. I have seen but very few instances of true scirrhus. A truly scir. rhoos affection of the testicle begins in the body of it, with an