219 ON HERNIA. avail himself of them for the benefit of himself and mankind. I do not mean to censure Mr. Blizard—hut I say it to guide others ; and I cannot help thinking that it is wrong for one who possesses so much substantial information as Mr. Blizard, to withdraw himself from that sphere in which he might be so useful; he might lessen his labours, and render them less severe, but not give them up altogether. There is something in the experience which a surgeon acquires at the bed-side of the sick that is worth every thing else ; you may be excellent anatomists auu physiolo- gists, but if you have not watched disease in the wards of the hospital, or at the bed-side of the patient, you will not understand your profession. I have been led into this digression in consequence of Mr. Blizard’s having withdrawn himself from the profession, a cir- cumstance which I sincerely lament. Well, Mr. Blizard made an incision on the fore part of the tumour, and water was imme- diately discharged. This led him to think it was not hernia, and he desisted ; but the symptoms of strangulated hernia still being present, he cnt through the tunica vaginalis, in which the water had been contained, avoiding the spermatic cord, and behind he found the hernial sac: he dilated the stricture with a bistury, and the patient did extremely well. The other case to which I alluded, where there was a hernia and hydrocele, oc- curred to Mr. H. Cline. After having evacuated the water, he dilated the stricture, and returned the parts ; and, as far as I recollect, the case turned out well. There is some little difficulty in distinguishing hydrocele ot tlie spermatic cord from hernia ; the two diseases are very likely to be confounded. The transparency, of hydrocele, and its beginning at the lower part of the scrotum, are in general the characteristic marks of that complaint; but I mentioned to you before, that the hydrocele might be so large as to reach the ab- dominal ring, when it assumes the form and shape of hernia, and might be easily confounded with it. There are two other diseases which hernia might be mistaken for: the first of these is varicocele—and what is varicocele 1 It is an enlargement of the spermatic veins; it begins above, and gradually descends into the scrotum : the swelling is of the form of hernia, and on the hand being applied when tliC patient coughs, it dilates considerably; and moreover, V.lrf,n the patient lies down it disappears; consequently this