ON DISEASES OE THE BREAST, 3S4 It is necessary in this disease, for which no specific is known, to give those medicines which restore the constitution generally. You will restore the different secretions by Plummer’s pill, and diminish the irritability of the nervous system by the carbonate of ammonia; this is the best plan, as far as I know, to keep the patient alive as long as )’ou can. Some say you should pay at- tention to diet; so you should ; but if you give a patient a vege- table diet, allow her nothing but water to drink, and keep her low, it will be the worst plan you can pursue ; if her strength is affected, you will by this means lower it still more, and soon bring her to the grave. I tell you what every man who has ob- served for himself knows to be true ; I mean those, at least who, have not spent their lives in the closet, but in watching disease. If a patient consults me how she is to live, I say to her, take those things which you find agree with your own feelings best, and which do not derange the general health. If she ciska “ Should 1 takg any wine?” I say, “ No”—“ Or any spirits?” “ Certainly not,” (God forbid that women ever should;) ‘‘ never hurry the circulation, nor take any thing so as to dis- order the constitution, but support the strength by animal food. If you should ever take any wine, mix it with water.” The pa- tient sometimes says, she has been told to “ live on vegetable food only :” my reply is, that “ 1 should like to know why you have been told so ; for the man who has done it knows nothing of the nature of the complaint.” I assure you, gentlemen, that if you weaken the strength by low diet, you will immediately quicken the pulse: you will- perceive it in a person with the pulse at 80 increase in a short time to 110 and 120, and become small. Rest assured that, in proportion as you weaken the con- stitution, you quicken the pulse. Do not debilitate it then on the one hand, nor stimulate it on the other ; for if you do, it will be the sure way to hasten the progress of the disease. It was only yesterday that 1 met in consultation three medical men (one of whom was Dr. Farre), on a person affected with scirr- hus. Dr. Farre has studied his profession as a professional man ought—has dissected for himself, and by this means has become intimately acquainted with the structure of the human body. He has watched disease with care in every stage, and, when op- norlunities have occurred, has pursued morbid anatomy with a zeal not often equalled ; acquiring a knowledge of the changes produced by disease on the different parts of rhe human frame.