155 ON THE OPERATION OF TREPHINING. necessary to do this soon, because the bone is readily sawn through. 1 never myself saw a case in which the pin entered the brain ; but my nephew was present when the operation of tre- phining was performed, and the pin was forgotten, so that it entered the brain, and inflammation of the dura mater came on. I can conceive that a man in his first operation, anxious how he shall succeed might forget it. When using the saw, let your bearing on it be as even as possible, else you will be through one part of the skull before another. There is but one danger in performing the operation of trephining, and that is, wounding the dura mater. When trephining on living subjects, you are informed of the progress you are making by blood issuing from the wound when you reach the diploe ; and when you see the blood, you will know that you are half through : but recollect, in very young and old persons, there is no diploe ; therefore very few turns of the saw will do. As you proceed with the sawing, you must introduce your probe to see how nearly you are through : you sound as you go on. When I find that I have sawn through in one part, I introduce the eleva- tor, and lift the portion of bone, the parts not cut through being easily broken. I find by my probe that in the part near the sa- gital suture I have sawn through ; I introduce the elevator, feel the bone move, and know that a very few turns will do, taking care not to lean on the side through which I have already sawn. 'J’he bone can be raised and loosened ; I am quite certain that the dura mater is not injured, and by introducing the elevator, the bone may be removed from its place. (Here the operation was completed.) Some people say that this is a trifling opera- tion, not difficult to perform, nor dangerous ; but they deceive you : It 13 one of the most dangerous operations in surgery ; whilst performing it there is but a single step, a small net-work between your patient and eternity : saw through this and destruction of life will generally be the consequence. Mr. Hunter made an assertion, that when the dura mater was wounded, the person never recovered; which, though not exactly borne out by the cases which have occuired since, shows the impression made on the mind of a man who was such an observer of nature. Before his death, Mr. Hunter saw a case of a wound of the dura mater re- cover. It is certain that there is less danger when the dura mater and pia mater are both injured; the danger is more when the dura mater is injured without the pia mater. I will give you the