ON rSOROrilTHALMT. 289 lids dries up, ulcers form, small briny incrustations are formed, and there is an appearance of tinea on the lids. The watery part of the secretion from the lids is evaporated, which leaves the incrustations that keep up the irritation and form small ulcers. In consequence, an alteration in the figure of the tarsi occurs; there is a contraction of the cellular membrane just beneath the lower palpebra, and eversion of that lid. This affec- tion of the eye is of difficult management, and is frequently found in persons of a scrofulous diathesis, in children of large towns who are ill fed and worse clothed, with little attention paid to cleanliness. The complaint is very obstinate in its cure; and, if relieved, it generally returns, and becomes as bad as ever. It is not, however, confined to the lower classes, but the higher and middling ranks of society are sometimes attacked with it —those who are of a scrofulous diatl esis. In schools also it will be found; it frequently arises from the irritating matter being applied to the lid, which may be conveyed from one to another by using the same towel, or in some such way. The treatment of this complaint does not essentially differ from that of the strumous j it is an inflammation without power, one of the atonic kind. Depletion must not be pursued to any extent. It wiL oe right when any symptoms of irritation are present to remove them by the application of leeches, and opening the bowels. Drastic purgatives must not be exhibited, as they do not answer the object which it is intended to effect; mild aperients, com- bined with mercurial medicines, such as calomel, the hydrar- gyrus cum creta, or the blue pill, and in quantities so as to givp tone to the system. When any febrile excitement that may have existed is removed, begin with tonic remedies ; that is, when the skin has its natural feel, and the tongue is clean, and the secre- tions from the bowels are regular in their quantity and quality. The applications to the part should consist of mild stimulants, and the best form in which they can be exhibited is that of oint- ment. The briny incrustations on the edges of the lid, and which are secreted from the meibomian follicles, confine the lids so closely together, that in the morning when the patient awakes they have the appearance of being glued together. This tends to pro- duce increased irritation on theedgesof the palpebrae. To prevent this the lids are to be smeared with some ointment. The one commonly used is that called the citrine ointment, ihe unguentum bydrarcyri niiratis; but it cannot be well borne .of the usual u