195 ON HYDROCELE. of the way down the tumour, at the posterior part. Here, I say, is its usual situation ; but in this respect it sometimes varies, as I shall presently show you. In performing the operation for hy- drocele,, it is of the utmost importance that you should have an exact knowledge of the situation of the testicle, for ignorance in this respect has often led to its being pierced by the trocar. You can easily discover the position of the testicle by a careful exa- mination of the swelling, and by squeezing it with some degree of force at every part. When you press upon the testicle, you will find that part of the tumour more firm : the patient will manifest much uneasiness, and complain that you give him a good deal of pain in this manner, then, you can readily discover where it is situated. The weight of the tumour is but little (this of course means comparatively) ; when you lift it, you^will be astonished at its lightness, which will at once convince you that it is not a solid substance. The next thing ) ou notice is, if the part be not very much distended, that the swelling will be moveable, i. e. if you firmly grasp it at its base, the fluid will ascend, and the tu- mour increase at its upper part; therefore its lightness, mobility, form, freeness from pain, and the history of the case, constitute its distinguishing character from other diseases. But there are two other marks by which the disease may be known, one of them decisive, and the other nearly so ; these are, first, its sense of fluctuation ; and, second, its transparency. I have just told you, that if you press upon the lower part of the swelling, it would decrease there and increase at the upper part; fluctuation at this time becomes evident to those who are accustomed to such ex- aminations. Its transparency, or rather its semi-transparency, may be discovered in the manner I shall presently explain to you. This characteristic feature has been denied ; I have certainly seen tlie tunica vaginalis so much thickened in very old cases of hy- drocele, and in persons who had long resided in hot climates, that the examination required nicety and caution; but still a little art, as I shall presently explain to you, will enable the surgeon to form a correct diagnosis. Well, then, such are the common marks by which you dis- tinguish hydrocele; but there are other varieties, and these I will mention to you : first, the water of hydrocele sometimes forms two swellings. I have before told you that the shape of the tumour is usually pyriform, and that the water gradually rues till it arrives at the abdominal ring; now, in this variety o 2