ON IRRITATION. 13 though he procured the best surreal assistance, yet he died of te- tanus within a week after the accident. Another remarkable case was that of a brewer’s servant, who, in removing some casks on a Saturday, had a small splinter of wood forced under the thumb nail; at the moment he did not re- gard it, but in the same night he awoke in dreadful pain, and re- quested his wfe to get up and make a poultice; this he applied, but it did not afford him any relief. On Sunday he became worse: Tuesday the pain had extended up the arm, and his hand was con- siderably swollen. On Thursday I was requested to see him, and on examination, found that matter was formed in the hand ; I made an opening with a lancet near the part where the splinter had entered, when a large quantity of pus was discharged. The man appeared greatly relieved, and ! thought he would do well; but upon hearing a noise as I was about to quit the room, I looked round : he had by a convulsive effort, raised himself in bed, but immediately fell back, and expired. Case.—An instance of a totally different nature from those just mentioned, which shows that a great degree of injury may be in- curred, and the person yet do well, occurred, in another brewer’s man who was run over by a dray. There was compound fracture of the elbow joint, extensive laceration of the integuments, and a large wound communicating with the joint. The man was ad- mitted into Guy’s Hospital; an operation was proposed, but the patient would not consent. The wound was therefore dressed, and in a short time it completely healed, without any unfavour- able symptom showing itself. Irritation is greatest in children, and least in aged persons; the former are very much affected by operations, whilst the latter are very slightly so. Children under two years of age, upon having stones removed from their bladders, will be frequently carried off by convulsions; therefore, if you can possibly avoid it, never perform the operation on a very young child; at all events, not under three years of age. One of the worst kinds of irritation is that occasioned by the absorption of morbid matter during dissection ; it is therefore impossible that you can be too careful of the instruments you use in dissecting and opening bodies, as carelessness on this point has caused the 'oss of many a valuable life.