120 Off CARBUNCLE. a toe-nail, carried the knife too far, and cut the quick as it is termed ; the wound soon became gangrenous and black, and in the sequel he died. I attended a gentleman, an old krgeon, who, for the purpose of getting rid of a bunion, had (most foolish- ly) put a lancet into it; gangrene followed, and he died- I was lately sent for by Mr. Holt, surgeon, of Tottenham, to see a gen- tleman, who, when cutting a corn, had carried the incision a little too far, so as to produce bleeding: gangrene here likewise took place. Old persons must, therefore, be cautious how they finger their toes—(a laugh) ; for life being almost out, very little will prove a complete extinguisher. A poultice, composed of port wine and linseed meal, will ge- nerally be found the best local application; and your internal remedy should consist of opium combined with ammonia. You must not expect that these cases will always recover. T have known, however, a single toe, a whole set, and even the entire foot to slough, and yet the patient do well. In these cases yon must never amputate—whether there be healthy granulations or not do not amputate; for as surely as you do, mortification of the stump will supervene. The next subject of which I shall speak is Carbunci-e. Of this I shall have but little to say, as many of the foregoing observations are equally applicable here. When carbuncle is about to take place in any part it is gene- rally preceded by pain, and at first a swelling of considerable hardness ; this is occasioned by the adhesive inflammation ; the surface of the tumour then assumes a livid redness and a spongy soft feel; little ulcers now form in the skin, which, from their number, give it a sieve-like appearance, so numerous are the ori- fices : from these a white diseharge passes—this fluid resembles water and flour mixed together : and a man who has seen much of carbuncle, knows the nature of the disease instantly upon see- ing the discharge. When the little openings are all formed into one, the dead cellular membrane begins to escape, for it previous- ly cannot do so, from the smallness of the apertures. In gan- grene of the extremities there is not this mechanical obstruction to the sloughing of the dead part. And though gangrene is ge- nerally difficult to cure, yet carbuncle usually does well, except when situated on the head or neck. Though persons will recover from carbuncles of an enormous size upon the back, yet very