212 ON HERNIA this manner the cure of hydrocele of the spermatic cord mav be readily effected. ■ — I « LECTURE XXV. i On Hernia. We shall now proceed to the subject of hernia.—Hernia is a ge- neric term, and is used to signify the protrusion of any viscus from a cavity, though surgeons generally confine it to protrusions of the viscera from the cavity of the abdomen. In children who have a malformation of the bones of the head, you will sometimes see a projection of the brain through the skull, and this is termed hernia cerebri. I have also seen the lungs protruding between the ribs, through the intercostal spaces; though instances of this kind are very rare ; I have met with two only. But protrusions of the viscera of the abdomen are of the most frequent occur- rence ; and this arises from the bulk of the parts contained in the abdomen, and the relaxation of its parietes. If you were asked then, what hernia is, you would say, o protnision of any viscus from its natural cavity. Different kinds of Hernia. There are four species of hernia .more frequently met with than others, and which it behoves you, therefore, particularly to attend to j and here I may observe that hernia is, of all cases, the one that requires the most prompt treatment and skill. Aneurism and stone are complaints which give time to the pa- tient and his friends to consult those who have had greater opportunities than others of observing the diseases under which they labour; but with respect to hernia—there is no time to get aid from distant places; on your information and nerve will the safety of the patient depend, and if you be ignorant of this dis- ease, his life will be lost,—The four species of abdominal hernia are—1st. inguinal; 2d. femoral; 3d. umbilical; 4th. ventral. Inguinal' hernia, called sometimes spermatocele, takes the course of the spermatic cord ; it varies a little in different cases, but generally follows this course. Femoral hernia passes behind Poupart’s ligament, on the in- side of the femoral artery and vein, between these vessels and the os pubis. Umbilical hernia takes the course of the umbilical cord, pass- ing tnrough the opening in &e linea alba behind the umbilicus;