ox FUNGOID DISEASE OF THE TESTICLE. 4*29 gpe''matic cord has not become enlarged, you may, by giving the patient alterative medicines for a length of time, succeed some- times in preventing the return of the disease after the operation : it is, however, an operation which is, in general, even less suc- cessful than that for scirrhous tubercles of the breast. I have never performed it after the spermatic cord has become enlarged, because I know that the disease will be sure to return. I was once going round the other hospital, when I pointed out a man who had scirrhus of the testicle, with an enlargement of the spermatic cord, and observed that this patient would probably die from the operation if it were performed, and that if be did not, the disease would certainly return. There were some foolish young men present, however, who thought the man might be saved by the operation, and one more foolish than the rest took a lodging for the man at Blackheath, where he performed the ope- ration, from which it is scarcely necessary to add, the man died. It it were not for the compassion which one feels for a patient under such circumstances, we might be induced to say, that such a result was a proper punishment for his presumption. Presump- tion, gentlemen, is the offspring of folly, the child of ignorance, and it commonly happens that a young man, who thinks himself an ex- ceedingly clever fellow, is a particularly egregious blockhead. It was observed by one of the greatest philosophers of antiquity, at the close of a life devoted to the acquisition of knowledge—that all he knew was, that he knew nothing ; and if we consider the amount of individual acquirement, as compared with the know- ledge which is either unattainable, or which the human faculties have not yet reached, the observation of the philosopher is strictly true. A man of real ability, instead of pluming himself on the extent of hb acquisitions, will, in proportion as he advances in life, lament that tihere is still so much to learn of which he knows nothing. To return, however, from this digression, what I advise, gentlemen, is, that you should never perform the ope- ration of castration, when you find the spermatic cord affected at the abdominal ring. Fungoid Disease cf the Testicle. This disease is much more common than the last; it begins like the true scirrhus, in the body of the testicle :—but unlike that disease, it almost immediately affects the whole body of the testicle at its first commencement. In a very short time the epidydimis becomes aflected ; next the spermatic cord ; and, in