140 OK FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. bleed them immediately after their admission, and at the same time send off for the surgeon; before whose arrival, however, the good effects of loss of blood are apparent, and the symptoms of concussion, and even of extravasation, have often disappeared. This shows how necessary it is that you should not be too precipi- tate. If you act prudently, therefore, in these accidents, you will try bleeding and purgatives, before you operate ; and whether you do or not, the depletion will prove of the greatest possible ad- vantage in preventing inflammation, and from which, if not kept bounds, arises the principal danger. The next subject to which I shall direct your attention is Fracture op the Skull with Depression. I will tell you what you ought to do in such cases, and then leave you to act for yourselves. In order to ascertain whether the symptoms arising from depression would come on immediate- ly after the accident, I tried the following experiment:—A gen- tleman having brought me a large dog, I applied the trephine to his cranium, and took out a portion^of the bone. I then, with the handle of a knife, separated the dura mater from the bone; or I found that I could make no impression on the brain un- til I had done so, and then pressed upon it with my finger. At first the animal did not seem to feel it, but upon pressing more deeply, it produced pain and irritation, and he endeavoured to avoid us. Upon still increasing the pressure, he became co- matose, and fell. I kept him in that state for five or six minutes, when, upon removing my finger, he got up, turned round two or three times from giddiness, and walked away, apparently little worse for the operation. A gentleman, who felt the animal's pulse during the continuance of the experiment, stated, that it became slower as the pressure became increased. In man it is the same —slow and labouring. After blows have been received on the head, it often hap- pens that upon making an examination of the scalp, there appears to be depression of bone to a great extent, when, in reality, there is none. Let me put you on your guard here. A person receives a blow on the scalp: the parts immediately surrounding the spot where the blow was received will rise, from the extravasation of blood, two or three lines higher than the part itself; for there the cellular membrane having been condensed by the injury, will likewise tend to increase the deception; thus the surrounding parts are considerably higher