ON HERNIA. 20!) springs may be applied when the child is three months old. The reason why a truss is not to be applied sooner is, that the parts are kept in so wet a state that a truss is very speedily destroyed. However, this reason no longer exists; for an ingenious truss has been constructed by Messrs. Salmon and Ody ; which may be worn almost immediately—within a fortnight at least—after the birth of the child. The pressure should be extremely light; in general, you should recommend the parent, at first, to have a truss made in the form of the common spring-truss, without any spring. A pad, retained by a leathern strap, should be placed upon the hernia, fastened round the abdomen of the child; and another strap should be passed between its thighs While the child is kept in the horizontal position in the arms, the hernia will, in general, he prevented from descending ; and, at the end of three months, a truss may be borne with ease. With respect to the congenital hernia, in the irreducible state, I do not know that any particular treatment can be adopted dif- ferent from that which is practised in the common inguinal her- nia. The operation in strangulated hernia of the tunica vaginalis is more difficult than that in the common hernia, the parts in the former being more concealed and involved in thicker parietes than in the latter. ^Vhen you make your incision on the sac, you should take care not to open the tunica vaginalis low down, for two very obvious reasons : first because you should always have sufficient tunica vaginalis to cover the testicle, to prevent any unnecessary irritation ; and secondly, because the spermatic artery and vein are situated obliquely on the fore part, and you would be in danger of cutting through each of these. You should therefore leave three inches of the tunica vaginalis undi- vided below. In general a considerable quantity of water is found with the intestine in the tunica vaginalis, a much greater quantity than in the common hernia ; because the tunica vagi- nalis is a more secreting surface than the peritoneum. In. con- genital hernia the stricture is generally about an inch and a half above the abdominal ring. VVHien the hernia is very large, the seat of stricture will descend to within half an inch or an inch of the abdominal ring;,but this very rarely happens. I have already endeavoured to expose to you the falsity of those state- ments which place the seat of stricture at the abdominal ring. Every surgeon who has operated five times in inguinal hernia, and knows any thing of the anatomy of the human body and ol