OPERATION FOR POPLITF.AL ANEURISM. 183 you are to bring the integuments close together by means of strips of adhesive plaister, leaving, however, a small space between each, so that the matter may escape through the interstices. No bandagS or roller of any sort should be applied, as the blood- vessels of the limb would be compressed by them, and injury done to the part. As for the position of the limb, it should be placed on a pillow, and on its outer side. If the patient were to rest on his heel, two evils would be likely to arise ; 1st, there would be the necessity of supporting the knee by placing some- thing under the ham which would stop the circulation in the ves- sels of the part; and, 2dly, there is danger to be apprehendea from gangrene, from the heel resting long in one position, as this is apt to produce sloughing of the parts. The outer position, then, is the one you should choose, occasionally changing it, so as to prevent pressure in any one particular part. Be on your guard, gentlemen, to preserve the warmth of the limb, for there is danger from gangrene in cold weather. Some years ago, I was very near losing a patient by not attending to this circumstance. A young gentleman, on whom I had per- formed the operation for aneurism, complained when I visited him (which wtis in the evening of the same day) of a weight in the foot: this induced me to look at the limb, which probably I should not otherwise have done, and I found that the foot was quite cold and benumbed, which was occasioned by there being no fire in the room at a time when the weather was quite cold. I sat down by the bed-side of the patient, and kept rubbing his leg and foot with a warm flannel till heat was restored to the limb. Ever since that time I have wrapped the limb up in a piece of flannel or a stocking, and sometimes put jars filled with hot water j) the feet, particularly if the weather is cold ; then the part will be preserved gently warm. I once saw a patient lost by the folly of a dresser at the other hospital. In the evening after the ope- ration, seeing the limb a little swollen, he said to the sister, “ .Suppose you apply the white wash (liq. plumbi. super, and water) to this 1” On the following morning gangrene came on in consequence of the cold produced by the evaporation; the power of circulation in the limb became destroyed, and the patient died. The means by which the circulation is carried on when the h-moial artery is tied is by the arteria profunda ; from this anastomosing vessels are sent off, which communicate wita