DISLOCATIONS OF THE FINGERS AND TOES. 635 supported. In these cases, straps of adhesive plaster should be braced rather tightly about the wris', to support and strengthen it; and over these you should pass a bandage, which would afford it additional support. Pumping cold water upon the hand, from a considerable height, is also very useful, and rubbing the parts afterwards with a coarse towel gives vigour to the circulation, and increases the strength of the joint. Sometimes ganglia are mistaken for dislocations of the carpal bones; but these are easily removed by striking them smartly with the flat surface of a book, and the supposed dislocation iin- med ately disappears. A compound dislocation of the carpal bones frequently happens . it arises generally, from the bursting of guns, or the hand being caugbt in machinery. In these cases, one or two of the carpal bones may be dissected away, and the patient recover, without losing his hand, and also preserve a considerable degree of mo- tion in the part. If, however, greater injury be done, amputa- tion is generally necessary. I have seldom seen the metacarpal bones dislocated, except as the result of excessive violence. They are so firmly connected with the bones of the carpus, that great force is necessary to se- parate them, and so much injury is done to the parts that ampu- tation is ge erally required. These cases usually happen from the bursting of guns, or the passage of heavy bodies over the hand. If it should happen that the metacarpal bones of the middle and ring fingers require to be removed, you may bring the fore and little fingers so nicely together as to produce little deformity; that is, if you can succeed in procuring union by ad- hesion. Dislocations op the Fingers and Toes are rare; for, in addition to their capsular and lateral ligaments, their articulations are powerfully strengthened by the extensor and flexor tendons. When the accident does occur, it is more frequently found between the first and second phalanges, than between the second and third. It can be readily ascertained, by the projection of the first phalanx backwards, while the head of the second can be felt on the fore part, although less distinctly. If it has not been dislocated many hours, you can easily reduce it; but, if it has been neglected at first, the reduction can only be accomplished by lorig-coniimied extension, and that very stearlily applirnl. It should bn recollected, to give the joint a slight inclination forwards, to relax the flexor muscles. I would