458 ON THE TREATMENT OF INTERNAL PILES. from experience, that, upon the whole, the ligature is most safe. This is the advantage, gentlemen, of having lived beyond the middle period of life. A young man may have been in the habit of removing piles by excision ; he may do this twenty times with success, and consequently believe that the operation is perfectly safe. At length he meets with disappointments similar to those of which I have enumerated four instances; he will then retrace his steps, and consider whether he has been pursuing a right sys- tem—whether, upon the whole, some other plan may not be pre- ferable, and his experience will teach him that the ligature is de- cidedly tlie safer operation. But there are other circumstances to be attended to in the treatment of tliis disease; internal piles are accompanied with a high degree of fever ; they are covered with adhesive matter surrounding the rectum, and the sphincter ani is affected with spasmodic symptoms. Ought you, under such circumstances, to purge the patient very freely ; Certainly not. Apply leeches, fomentations, and poultices to the part, and take blood from the arm; for exciting the intestines to action adds so much to the irritation, that if you venture to purge the patient once, he will not be able to bear it a second time. You must endeavour to allay the irritation by local and general treat- ment ; if the inflammation continues for a considerable time, you must give an aperient once in three or four days, but it must not be oftener repeated. Sometimes internal piles undergo a natural cure. A celebrated literary character, to whose case I before alluded, who was under the necessity of rising at an early hour in the morning to perform his evacuation, became, at an ad- vanced age, the subject of inflammation of (he rectum. The re- sult was, a loss of power in the part; he was for a week in the greatest possible danger, but at the end of that time the piles separated by sloughing, and he got entirely rid of the disease. Nature teaches us the mode in which we should proceed in cases of excrescences, which, as they merely form portions of project- ing skin, may be removed without the least hazard. When you see at the anus portions of skin, which are the remnants of piles, exceedingly vascular and irritable, they may be removed by ex- cision. I remember Dr. Fox had a patient who suffered exceed- ingly from this cause ; the part was excoriated ; he had constant tenesmus, and he had taken a great quantity of medicine without benefit. 1 snipped off the excrescences with a pair of scissors, and the patient was immediately relieved. As the prolapsus re-