665 ON COMPOUND FRACTURES. nal surface of ihe periosteum and the external surface of the hone. At the place where bones are brought into contact, the periosteum becomes absorbed, and cartilage is deposited be- tween them, in which patches of bony matter are formed, and these, when completed, are covered by an extension of the origi- nal periosteum. The cause of the non-union of fractures is the want of approxima- tion ; for if the fractured ends are not brought into contact, the periosteum is not raised, the cartilage that forms does not cover the extremities of the bones, and the protruding portions are re- moved by the absorbents, so that the process of union only goes on in those surfaces of bone which are lying in contact. Under the granulations arising from the cancellated structure, cartilage is also found, and about the twelfth day in simple, and from the seventeenth to the twentieth day in compound fracture, there are bony patches deposited in the cartilage; it is by the accumulation of these patches that ossific union gradually takes place. A compound fracture is necessarily slower in its progress towards recovery, from the causes just explained, than a simple fracture; and the union is frequently retarded by exfoliations of bone, which will often take up a tedious time to separate, and keep up considerable constitutional irritation. Three months ma.y be considered a short time for the union of a compound fracture to take place; sometimes the accident is not recovered from in nine months, and, occasionally, not even in twelve. I shall now proceed to speak of their treatment under common circumstances. Reduce the bones as speedily as you can, and this maybe very easily done by relaxing the muscles acting upon the limb. Bring them as nearly into apposition as possible, and if there be slight hemorrhage, do not be searching for a small vessel, but place a little lint over the wound, and by making gentle pressure on It you may easily suppress the hemorrhage. 1 shall have some further remarks to make on this subject, when speaking of the difficulties sometimes attending these accidents. Next bring the integuments as neatly over the parts as you can, and dip a dossil of lint in the bloorl, and put it on the surface of the wound, which irritates the least of any application 1 know of, and appears to approach the nsarest of any other to the natural covering of the parts. In this way the wound unites by the adhesive process, and the union of the bone goes on as in simple fracture, and is cured in one-fourth part of the time which would be required ii