633 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW. when the arm is bent. The radius is sometimes separated from its connexion with the coronoid process of the ulna, and is thrown forwards, into the hollow above the external condyle of the os humeri, and upon the coronoid process of the ulna. The fore-arm is slightly bent, but cannot be brought to a nght angle with the upper, nor can it be perfectly extended; when bent suddenly, the flexion is checked by the head of the radius striking against the fore part of the os humeri. The hand is between pronation and supination, but neither can be done perfectly, but it is nearer pronation. By carrying the thumb into the fore p.irt of the elbow joint, and rotating at the same time the hand, the head of the radius will be felt to rotate also; and this, with the sudden check to the bending of the fore-arm, are the best marks of the injury. This accident happens from a fall upon the hand when the arm is extended, and the radius receives the weight of the body. In attempting to reduce this dislocation, the hand should be turned supine, the fore-arm should be bent, and exten- sion made from the hand, without including the ulna. Numerous and powerful attempts have been made to reduce this dislocation, and frequently without success; but, by attending to the circum- stances I have just mentioned, I have succeeded in two or three cases; and I have only seen six of these accidents, and one of these was a patient of Mr. Cline’s. Of the dislocation of the radius backwards, I have never seen a ca«e in the living body; but a subject was brought into our dissecting room with this accident: I have no doubt but that it might be easily reduced by bending the fore arm; a bandage should afterwards be worn. The dislocations of the wrist joint are of three kinds.—First, of the dislocations of both bones. This is not of very frequent occurrence; but the bones maybe either thrown backwards or forwards, according to the direction of the force .applied. If a person in falling receives his weight upon the palm, the carpal bones are thrown bar.kwards, and the radius and ulna forwards. The marks of the atcident are these: a swelling is produced by the radius and ulna on the fore part of the wrist, and a similar swelling is seen on the back part, with a depression above it. TTie hand is forcibly bent back. If a person fall on the back part of the hand, the carpas is forced under the flexor tendons, and the radius and ulna are thrown upon the back part of the hand. These two projections become the diagnostic marks of 'the acci- dent, and will distinguish it from a swelling on the fore part of