no ON GANGRENE. was led to believe that the femoral artery was torn through. Tlie question then arose whether we should amputate or not. Upon examination, I found the limb emphysematous; the air had ex- tended into the cellular tissue up the thigh to the abdomen, and putrefaction had already commenced. I perceived, therefore, that the patient had but a few hours to live, and that it was use- less to put hinitothe pain of an operation. Upon examination after death by the medical gentlemen at Rochester, where the patient resided, it was ascertained that the femoral artery was di- vided. It seems extraordinary, when we contemplate the situa- tion of the thigh-bone, that a fracture of it should not in one case out of ten produce a similar result. A little knowledge of anatomy however, explains this circumstance. The artery is enclosed in a sheath, which so far protects it, and its elasticity yielding to the pressure of the bone, enables it to escape in a great majority of cases from the occurrence of this accident. The history of gangrene, as far as dissection enables us to judge of it is this : The excessive action of the part closes the blood-vessels, and the blood contained in them becomes coagulated. I'his is a curious circumstance, which I ascertained by an experiment made on an animal. It is a well known fact in physiology, that if a quantity of blood be included in a living vessel between two ligatures, at the distance of two or three inches, this blood re- mains about three hours before it becomes coagulated. To ascer- tain whether, if blood were admitted into a dead vessel, from which the air was entirely excluded, it would coagulate as it would in a glass out of the body, I put a ligature on the jugular vein of an animal, and another ligature at the distance of two inches from the first; then cutting through the end of the vein, I brought it externally to the skin, so that it hung out from the wound. Having ascertained that the blood coagulates in three hours and a quarter in a living vessel, I took off the ligature from the pendulous dead vessel, and found that in ten minutes the blood had coagulated as firmly as it would in a vessel into which a person had been bleeding. In a dead blood-vessel, therefore, the blood becomes coagulated just as it would in a vessel out of the body. If you attempt to inject a part after gangrene the injection will not enter the vessel. There is a specimen on the table (Sir Astley exhibited the specimen) of a gangrenous limb, where you may perceive that the injection has entered only as far as the part at which gangrene has com- menced, Such is the state of parts under gangrene. They can