ON COMPOUND FRACTURES. 6fi7 toe to fall, the foot becomes everted, and the patient seldom re- coveres a useful limb. If the fracture is in the thigh, it should be placed over a double inclined plane, with a splint on each side; that on the outside should reach from the trochanter beyond the kn^e; and both in this and the former fracture you should keep the ball of the great toe in a line with the inner side of the patella. I do not like the extended position of the limb, because the muscles are put upon the stretch, and there is danger of a shortening of the limb en- suing. This was the practice about fifty years ago. The lateral position of the limb, as recommended by Mr. Pott, I also object to, for two reasons; the first is, that it is almost impossible to keep the toes from falling, the consequence is that the foot is turned out; and I have seen several patients, treated by Mr. Pott for this accident, who had this deformity. The second ob- jection to the practice is, that the limb, from being kept long in the extended position, causes the motion of the knee-joint to be very much diminished, and there is great difficulty subsequently in restoring it. In compound fracture of the humerus, let the arm hang by the side, with the fore-arm and hand very slightly supported in a sling, so that its weight may not be entirely taken off the hume- rus, for it will tend materially to preserve the apposition of the ends of the bone. Do not keep the patient in bed, for in the recumbent posture the arm is generally placed across the chest, the arm is put on the twist, and the fracture unites badly. A compound fracture of the femur generally does better than a compound fracture of fhe leg, because the bone is so much surrounded by muscle that the wound made is much more easily closed, and is not therefore followed by the same degree of sup- puration. The humerus generally docs well when fractured, on the same account. The worst cases are those of the fore-arm and leg, from inflammation and sloughing of the tendons in the one, and the superficial nature of the covering of the bone in the other. The ronrtilutxonal treatment required in these accidents will be regulated by the force of the symptoms ; but there are a few cir- cumstances which I consider important for you to become acquainted with. If the patient be young and plethoric, take blor><l from the arm sufficient to allay the constitutional suffering, but do not give purgatives, as they very much disturb the patient, and add to the irritation, by the necessity which there is of his