COUNTER IRRITATION IN INKLAMMATION. 41 that joint have lost their power; thus, if aman has an inflam- mation of the wrist, and you put your hand into his and desire him to squeeze it, you find that he cannot do so, or that the at- tempt is exceedingly feeble. In inflammations of the joints of the lower extremities, the muscles of the part in like manner lose their vigour. Indurations frequently remain after inflammation has entirely ceased ; these are to be got rid of by diminishing the circulation of the part, and producing absorption by the following me- thods :— Pressure has the power of exciting the action of the absorbents in an extraordinary degree; and you may produce it either by the use of rollers or strapping. Electricity, too, is attended with similar effects ; it acts strongly on the absorbent system. Mercury, likeivise, does the same; and, speaking generally, more decidedly so than either of the other remedies I have mentioned. When a man dies in our foul wards, for example, in a state of salivation, we find that the alveolar processes which contained the teeth have been in a great measure absorbed. Friction has of late years, got into great repute, for the cure of indurated and stiffened joints, occasioned by inflammation; it was first recommended by the late Mr. Grosvenor, of Oxford, a man of strong mind, and who possessed a great share of common sense. This remedy was his hobby; and, like all other hobbies, it occasionally carried hs rider into the mire ; for Mr. Grosvenor sometimes would recommend friction before the acute inflamma- tion had terminated, consequently it was productive of mischief rather than benefit; in many instances, however, where judi- ciously employed, the most beneficial results have been ob- tained. Ca%e.—A gentleman in the neighbourhood of Nottingham, when shooting, received a severe injury to his knee ; after the violence of the first inflammatory symptoms had terminated, there remained considerable swelling, stiffness, and induration ; for these he was attended by Mr. Attenbrough, an eminent surgeon, of .Nottingham ; as the gentleman did not get better, Mr. Atten- lioToiigh sent him to town, and here he for some time continued under my care and that of a physician ; still the joint remained in the same state, and the means used were inadequate to afford