ON POISONS. he wrote a prescription. Tlie cliemist had not quite half a pint, but he sent somewhat more than seven ounces. Of this quantity the pupil took so much, that not more than a tea-spoonful was left in the phialhe must have taken, therefore, about six ounces and six drachms. As this young man was a dresser of mine, I felt particularly anxious about him ; and, being informed, during lecture, that he had taken laudanum to destroy himself, I imme- diately went to the house of Mr. Phillips, the surgeon, in Union- street, where he was lodging. They were very properly walking him to and fro, and a quantity of the flour of mustard in water had been given to him, with a view of producing vomiting, but without success. I ordered him a large dose of the sulphate of line ; but this did not produce vomiting, though it occasioned irritation in the throat. I directed the sulphate of zinc to be re- peated ; and on quitting the house I met Dr. Marcet, my col- league at Guy’s, to whom I communicated the circumstances. Dr. Marcet immediately said, “ Pray give him fifteen grains of the sulphate of copper.” We gave him this quantity of the sul- phate of copper, which, very shortly after it had entered the sto- mach, produced vomiting; and he threw up a quantity of liquid, smelling very strongly of opium. He was kept constantly in motion, the vomiting was assisted by copious draughts of warm water, and in this way he recovered. Two days after, I met him in the square of the hospital, and asked him how he did ? “ Why,” said he, “ my throat is a little sore from the effects of the sul- phate of copper." “ And how came you to take the opium?” said I. “ Why, sir,” said he, “ I will tell you : I think my teeth are not so white as they used to be; the women observe this, and no longer regard me with the same affection ; this it is which makes me miserable.” (A laugh.) Perceiving that he was mad, I took mea.sures to have him placed under the care of his friends. I have known persons take a drachm of opium day after day, in divided doses. A Turk, who was selling rhubarb at the other hospital, being asked how much opium he could eat, showed us how much on h'ls fingers. A drachm of solid opium was given to him, and he chewed it before us. People often ruin themselves by a disposition to take opium. I knew a woman, in tolerable circumstances, in a village in Norfolk, who was in the habit of taking large quantities of opium ; she would buy a pint of lauda- num at a time, at a chemist’s shop, and, if any remained after filling her bottle, she would drink it off in a wine-glass. Thw