ON HEaNIA. 2G0 practical surgery, must be aware that the stricture is hardly ever to be found at the abdominal ring. In hernia congenita, it is even less frequently to be found in that situation than in common inguinal hernia. If, therefore, a surgeon is called upon to operate for strangulated hernia, and expects to find the stricture at the abdominal ring, he is not fit to perform the operation at all; and if any of you were to state, in your examination at the Col- lege, that the abdominal ring was the seat of stricture, such a man ought to be immediately turned back. It is contrary to the truth ; and every man, who has dissected the disease, and under- stands anatomy, must know it to be a most abominable error. I call it a most abominable error; because it necessarily leads to the most dangerous consequences in the operation for strangulated hernia. A man who thinks that by slitting up the abdominal ring he can push the intestines into the abdomen, either fails in doing it altogether, or if he gets a portion of intestine within the ring, the stricture and all the dangerous symptoms of strangula- tion still remain. You will look for the stricture, therefore, m congenital hernia, at an inch or an inch and a half above the ab- dominal ring, and directly opposite to the tendon of the trans- versalis muscle. I am not aware of any circumstance in this operation which differs from that adopted in the common in- guinal hernia. When the intestine adheres generally to the tunica vaginalis, all you are to do is to divide the stricture, and leave the intestine within the tunica vaginalis. If the adhesion is only in a particular point, you might cut through it; but you must not attempt to cut through any considerable portion of the tunica vaginalis, as you would run great risk of dividing the sper- matic artery or vein. All you should do, after dividing the stricture, is to bring the edges of the wound together, and make them adhere; in this way you leave the patient as you found him, with his irreducible hernia, but relieved from the dangerous symptoms of strangulation. The patient should wear a laced bag-truss after the operation. 'I'htre is a particular species of hernia of the tunica vaginalis, of which I have hitherto seen but three examples; there are two specimens in the College, and one I shall now send round to you. This is an encysted hernia of the tunica vaginalis; and 1 shall endeavour to explain to you the way in which it takw place. The hernia in this case is very much concealed within the scrotum ; a bag is situated within the tunica vaginalis, which