310 ox EKTRACTION OF THE CATARACT tlirough the pupil. When this is tlie case, the operator must raise the needle upwards, and then depress it downwards, and backwards, and a little outwards, by which means the crystalline lens becomes pushed into the vitreous humour. If the lens should rise from its situation, it must be again depressed, and when it is safely lodged in the vitreous humour, the needle must be withdrawn. Some continental surgeons perform the opera- tion of reclination, which consists in turning the lens over, and pushing the tipper edge backwards, and the lower forwards, and likewise in puncturing the cornea instead of the sclerotic ; the best plan is that recommended by Scarpa. The after treatment is very simple, and consists in a single fold of linen moistened in cold water being applied to the eye. The patient is also to be put in a dark apartment, and narrowly watched, in order to see if inflammation supervenes ; very fre- quently none arises. LECTURE XXXVI. On Extraction of the.Cataract. This operation was first performed towards the end of the seven- teenth century ; it was not, however, generally known till some- what later, when it was brought into repute by Deville, who pub- lished the method of performing it. Considerable improvements were subsequently made in the mode of performing it by Wenzel, who practised it with great dexterity and astonishing success. 'J'here seems to be no necessity for preparing a patient for this operation, beyond taking care that his bowels be duly evacuated, and that he has not used any unusually stimulating diet previous to the operation. It would be highly improper to perform it, if the patient was at the time labouring under any other complaint or morbid affection ; means should be taken to remove any com- plaint of this kind before the operation is attempted. Beyond these precautions, however, no preparatory treatment will be ne- cessary, though, I am aware, much stress was formerly laid upon this point. Several instruments will be required for the perform- ance of this operation, which is a more complicated one than that to which I before directed your attention. In the first place, a cornea knife will be necessary ; the knife used by Wenzel was something like a bleeding lancet; the blade, however, was neither so long nor so broad, and the edges were