189 ON THE TYING OF ARTERIES. Here is a specimen of a dog (pointing to one on the able), in ■which the aorta has been tied, and the circulation ■waa ear- ned on by the lumbar arteries; it is a very easy operation on the dog, and'any one may perform it. I will tell you how you should do it j you must make an incision on the side of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebr®, cut through the muscles and peritoneum, and then you may easily carry the aneurismal needle under the vessel, and bring it out of the wound, in order that you may see that you have not included the aortic plexus: if this be secured in the ligature, a paralytic affection of the lower extremities will be produced : now I wish particularly to state this, as I believe it to be entirely new, and that nothing new has been said on this subject in books. In the first two animals on which I performed this operation, I thought the paralysis was owing to the interruption of the circulation, but on repeating the experiment, I found it was produced by including the aortic plexus. If the aorta be well cleaned, and a ligature ap- plied, and the vessel be returned to the abdomen, the dog runs about as if nothing had been done to it; and in five minutes alter, it will eat bread out of your hands, if- it has been previously accustomed to it. The operation, I repeat, is ex- ceedingly easy, and a boy may perform it. Well, after you have done this, wait a short time, kill the animal, and inject the arteries, you will find that the lumbar vessels on the inner side of the abdomen, and fore part of the spine, had carried on the circulation. The reason of the paralysis in the case I have just alluded to was, that the aortic plexus was included, and the result was the destruction of life. Unfortunately, however, in the human subject you cannot make your incision near the spine, but must do it on the fore part of the abdomen to get at the aorta. If a case were to offer itself, similar to that I have told you of, I would immediately perform the operation again ; and my own conviction is that it can be done, and with success. At the time I tied the aorta, the patient appeared dying ; after the operation had been performed, I was pleased in a remarkable manner to see him in the evening sitting up in bed adjusting his clothes; if the vessel had not been secured when it was, he would not have lived an hour. On the following morning, signs of constitutional irritation came on, in the evening he became much worse, and in forty hours from the time of tli4 operation he died. Here is the specimen, (the learned pro-