170 ON THE SIZE OF ANEURISMS. Bn the subject of internal aneurisms, as the symptoms will vary according to the seat in which the disease may be found ; the digestive organs will be in fault at one time, the uriuary at an- other, according to the part on which the pressure of the aneu- rismal sac may rest; from the variety of symptoms, the diagnosis will of course be found to be difficult. On the Size of Aneumsms, The aneurism before me is tlie largest I ever saw ("a beautiful specimen was here exhibited); it be^ns in the aorta at the emul- gent arteries, and extends into the cavity of the pelvis It con- tained blood (and I am not exactly certain how much), but of an enormous weight. Here (showing another specimen) is a popliteal aneurism of considerable size. The greatest number of aneurisms that I have seen in one case is seven, and this Specimen on the table was taken from the man to whom I al- lude. He died of an aneurism at the bifurcation ; he ako had one at the opposite ham, two above it, one in the groin, and two others. The iliac artery had been tied for femoral aneu- rism, and the patient did well for some time, but afterwards died. This man was a bricklayer’s labourer j had been ac- customed to mount ladders and carry weights up great heights ; had been in the habit of exercising his lower extremities a good deal: he was not very muscular, and the fatigue of his occupation was more than he could bear. I may observe here, that some aneurisms are local, and others general ; when thej' occur in the ham they are frequently only local; but when be- tween the groin and ham, or in the middl'e of the’ thigh, you very commonly find disease of other arteries. Therefore, in popliteal aneurism, you expect to find the aorta and larger arte- ries healthy. The age at which aneurisms generally occur is from 30 to 50 j at that age, exercise is considerable and strength less. In very old age this complaint is not so common. I have seen a popli- teal aneurism in a man of 80, four or five years ago, at the other hospital: on this man I tied the femoral artery, and he did ex- tremely well. On a man of 69 I have operated, and that case did well. I saw a boy in this hospital eleven years old, with aneurism of the anterior tibial artery. The man of eighty is the oldest, and the boy of eleven the youngest, that I have seen with aneurism. It is more commonly met with between thirty and fifty, or rather between thirty and forty, than after that