2 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. requisite on the part of the surgeon. The first of which is, neat- ness in the application of his remedies; awkwardness in this respect will frequently injure his professional prospects—the patient and his friends often judge of a man’s skill by his manner of bleeding, or from the application of a bandage ; and it some- times happens that “ the hand spoils the head.” The next requisite is, gentleness of manner ; patients having a natural dislike to operations, feel still more uneasy if they disco- ver any thing in their practitioner’s behaviour which makes them appreh^d rough treatment. Violenep is in all cases bad, and is sometimes followed by fatal consequence^^ I was invited by a surgeon, some years since, to see a patient who had a compound dislocation of the ankle joint: there existed a considerable degree of pain arid inflammation ; the surgeon at once suddenly introduced a probe, raised some of the parts by it, and, his Latin being as bad as his surgery, said with the utmost coolness, Dedenda est Carthago! " Carthage must fall!” 1'hereby implying that amputation must be performed; indeed, from the rough manner in which he treated his patient, there seemed no other chance for the poor fellow’s recovery. In this case gentle- ness might have prevented the necessity for amputation. But the quality which is considered of the highest order in surgical operations is self-possession ; the head must always direct the hand, otherwise the operator is unfit to discover an etfectual remedy for the unforseen accidents which may occur in his prac- tice. Without this quality a man may do well enough in ordi- nary cases, but can do little on sudden emergencies; it inspires confidence, and almost insures the success of the operation. These qualities forward the interests of professional men, whilst they diminish the sufferings of human nature. Patients generally form an opinion of a surgeon’s ability by his manner; if he be •f a dry, morose turn, he is apt to alarm not only the patient, but his whole family; whereas, he who speaks kindly to them, and asks for particular information, is supposed to have more knowledge, and receives more respect. In all cases it is the duty of the surgeon, never to advise an operation, unless there is a probability that it will be attended with success : he should here, as in every instance, “do to others as he would have others do unto him.” Let it be always re- membered, that operations cannot be su/’e/y undertaken by any