ON PUNCTURING THE BLADDER. 399 practice of these hospitals, and I have seen something of the pri- vate practice of London, and I can assure you that 1 have never yet seen u case of enlarged prostate, either in these hospitals or in my private practice, in which it was necessary to puncture the bladder. 1 know that it has been done repeatedly ; but if the surgeon is sufficiently adroit, it is never necessary. There are cases of stricture in the urethra, in which an operation for reliev- ing- the bladder of an accumulated load of urine is rendered ne- cessary. Let us consider the means which different surgeons have proposed for this purpose; and first let me observe to you that the bladder has not unfrequently been punctured above the pubes. The Operation of Puncturing the Blauder above THE Pubes. This operation is founded on the following anatomical cir- cumstances:—In the natural formation of the parts, the peri- toneum falls from the inner side of the rectus, over the upper parts of the bladder, and is reflected backward to the fundus, leaving a space filled with cellular tissue between the pubes and the reflected peritoneum. This is the space in which the surgeon performs the operation ; but when the bladder is ex- cessively distended with urine, it will sometimes happen, that It reaches as far as the navel, occupying a great part of the anterior portion of the abdomen. An instance of this may be seen in a cast taken by Mr. Solly, from a case which was brought a few days ago into the museum. (The learned pro- fessor exhibited the cast to the class.) The peritoneum is not within the reach ol the pubes, but is three inches removed from it; consequently, it is reflected over the bladder, and a large space is left for the operation between the reflected peritoneum and the pubes. Your object in performing the operation is, to avoid wounding the peritoneum, which is in the highest degree dangerous. Cases have occurred, in which the peritoneum has been punctured, and yet the patient has sur- vived ; but such a circumstance could only arise from the un- skilfulness of the surgeon. 'I'he operation of puncturing the bladder above the pubes is one of the most simple and easy ; it requires very little anatomical knowledge, and very little adroit- ness on the part of the surgeon who performs it. All that is re- quired is this—make your incision through the integuments to the extent of an inch above the pubes. It is best to open the