298 ON INFLAMMATION OF THE IRII iris adheres to the cornea, and that portion of it is removed. The crystalline lens escapes, together with a portion of vitreous humour, and the eye collapses, so that when the part is healed, an artificial eye may be worn. These are now made so much to resemble the natural eye, that they may be worn without the deception being detected. This is the only treatment that can be adopted with any relief to the patient. The cornea some- times becomes conical, or of a conoid shape ; in these cases the cornea loses its natural lustre—the sight becomes impaired. Glasses afford no relief to the sight in this altered shape of the cornea ; nor is there any remedy with which I am acquainted that does. I have seen several cases of this kind, and have not known any good result from the treatment that has been adopted. Having considered all the affections of the cornea, I shall pro- ceed to those of the other parts of the eye. Inflammation of the Iris. Inflammation of the iris, or as it has been latterly called iritis, is a peculiar and specific inflammation of the eye. The symp- toms attending this complaint are in some cases with great diffi- culty recognized. In looking into the eye, you see the iris changed in colour, or having a brownish hue; or rather a reddish brown colour (this, however, varies according to the natural colour of the iris), from the increased number of vessels on its surface carrying red blood. The iris itself is altered in texture, being puckered and thickened. These appearances are soon removed, and deposits of yellow lymph, resembling yellow tubercles will be seen on the iris; the pupil becomes irregular, and altered in shape and the pupillary margin of the iris thickened and turned back towards the posterior chamber. These then are the principal symptoms by which you recognise iritis; but besides these, the aqueous humour becomes turbid, and the ciliary vessels on the surface of the sclerotic form a zone of vessels immediately surrounding the upper part of the cornea, which have a different appearance from those in inflammation of the conjunctiva, the latter having a tortuous course, whilst the others go in a stiaight direction. The conjunctiva partakes of the inflammation, and assumes a red appear- ance. The pain in the eye is not acute, but the patient cannot bear the light. There is also considerable constitutional irritation or fever, which may be known by the state of the pulse, and other symptoms. Inflammation of the iris often gomes on from very