514. O^S’ ABSCESSES IN THE URETHRA. ings then subside. Sometnires these little abscesses break ex- ternally to the urethra, thus forming a double swelling; but the most frequent situation of abscesses of the urethra from gonor- rhoea, is in the lacuna magna, opposite to the frmnum. These ab- scesses likewise form between the lacun® and scrotum. When you feel an abscess moving about in the scrotum, and that abscess occurring after the inflammation attending gonorrhcKa, you may be pretty sure that it has been formed in the lacuu®, opposite the scrotum, and will prove troublesome to the practitioner, and dangerous to the patient; for, in this situation, abscess will fre- quently form, until the patient sinks under the long continuance and severity of the disease. The next situation in which we find abscesses that are pro- duced by the same cause is in the perin®um, giving rise to swellings there of considerable magnitude; the inflammation passes down the urethra, giving rise to great pain in making wa- ter, and still greater pain after having passed it. If the inflam- mation be not checked in its progress, it will give birth to these abscesses, which, if permitted to remain, will, at length, break through the integuments, and matter and urine will be discharged through the opening. The passage leading from the external wound to the internal is exceedingly tortuous, so that upon intro- ducing a probe, that probe will not directly enter the urethra; indeed, you will find some difficulty in getting it there, from the winding and irregular course of the canal which the matter has formed; the nature of the wound will at once shew you that the urine may easily become extravasated into the cellular membrane of the neighbouring parts. •' Abscesses of this description will sometimes give rise to retention of urine : a man thus circum- stanced was brought into the other hospital: upon passing the catheter, I felt a something unusual while introducing it, which led me to examine the perinmu'ra ; I there found one of these abscesses, and, opening it w'ith a lancet, gave the patient imme- diate relief. This, then, will prove one source of retention of urine, and it is caused by the pressure which the ubsceSsSnukes upon the urethra. The further extension of the inflammation will be the means of producing abscesses in the follicles of the prostate gland: these likewise will occasion retention of urine, and, upon introducing a catheter to relieve this, it occasionally occurs that the cathetet will enter an abscess, and a considerable quantity of matter will