290 ON NEBULA. strength, and therefore is diluted with one-third, or one-half, or perliaps more than this, of unguentum cetacei, and this is applied with a camel-hair brush twice a day, the incrustations of matter being carefully washed olf before its application, and then some of the ointment is to be smeared along the edges. The un- guentum hydrargyri nitrico-oxydr is used for the same purpose. In fact, any of the milder stimulating mercurial ointments will do. The application will be required to be varied, and the degree of strength must be regulated by the effect on the eye. The use of vinum opii will be attended with beneficial results, and the application of blisters will have an universally good effect. In the use of blisters, however, in this complaint, as well as in strumous ophthalmia, no advantages will be derived from keeping them open; for when this is done, they are apt to give rise to fresh irritation. Therefore, after the application of a blister, you should desire it to be healed; and, if necessary, direct a fresh one to be applied. By this means the irritation in the eyes will be relieved and their employment be attended with advantage. The consequences of inflammation of the eye requiring distinct notice, and which are accompanied with equal or less inflam- mation of the conjunctiva, and kept up or excited by attendant circumstances, are now to be spoken of. In the first place we shall treat of Nebula. This complaint is so called from the nebulous or cloudy ap- pearance of the transpatent part of the eye, which is produced by deposits of lymph into the conjunctiva covering the cornea. The membrane or layer stretched over the cornea will vary ac- cording to the more or less relaxed state of the vessels of the conjunctiva, which will be seen carrying red blood to the part. The veins corresponding to the nebulous parts will become turgid and prominent. If there be considerable inflammation, it must be removed by active means ; and in these cases it will be proper to deplete. The inflammation, however, is generally of the chronic kind, and arises from a relaxed state of the vessels, which require stimulating applications, in order that they may recover their tone, and convey the blood uninterruptedly. If the vessels be stimulated, the blood will be likely to flow through the veins, the absorbents will be excited, and remove the effused lymph. By stimulating applications, the cornea will frequently