ON POISONS. 485 LECTURE LIV. Of Vegetarle and Mineral Poisons. It remains that 1 should say a few words on the subject of vege- table and mineral poisons. One of the vegetable poisons is hem- lock ; I have not myself seen any instance of its proving destruc- tive to life ; the common effects which it produces are giddiness, vomiting, and very severe pain in the head. The effects of this poison are known rather from history than from an}’ recent ob- servations which have been made with respect to it.' The Greeks were in ihe habit of putting to death, by this poison, persons who had forfeited their lives to their country ; and it was by this poi- son, as most of you are aware, that Socrates was destroyed. It does not appear from the accounts which history has transmitted to us, that Socrates suffered much in his last moments, since we are told that, during the time he was drinking the hemlock, he said a cock should be sacrificed to .4lsculapius for the ease with which he departed life. 'I'obacco is a highly poisonous substance though it is rarely given in such quantities as to prove destructive to existence. I have known it. however, destroy life, both when used as an injection and when applied externally. I will men- tion a circumstance which occurred to me, in order to put you upon your guard with respect to the use of tobacco enemata. I witnessed an instance of this some years ago in the other hospital, in a young woman who had strangulated hernia. A drachm of tobacco in a pint of warm water was injected into the intestines to assist in diminishing the strangulation. There were no previous symptoms which led me to suppose that the patient was near her dissolution, but soon after the injection was administered she be- came exceedingly depressed, a deadly paleness overspread her bodv, she had a cold perspiration, vomiting increased to a great degree ; soon after she became insensible, and in that state she died. 'J’his was not more than three quarters of an hour after rhe had taken the tobacco enema. On this account I mentioned to you, when I was on the subject of hernia, that it was dangerous to use this substance without feeling your way in its employment. It is better not to inject at first more than half a drachm of to- bacco in half a pint of water; if the patient should not be affected by this quantity, another half drachm may then be employed. I am aware that two drachms or more arc some-