ON FUNGOID DISEASE OF THE TESTICEE. 433 there was no hope of a cure except by removal of the testicle. He submitted to the operation, and resumed his professional duties. Eight months after, the remaining testicle became en- larged ; he was exceedingly alarmed j surrendered his situation, and came to this country for advice. He applied to myself ami two other surgeons j we had a consultation on his case, and out opinion was, that there was no necessity for removing the other testicle. All he was advised to do was, to keep his sofa steadily, and to take mercury till his mouth became sore, and to apply stimulating lotions to the part. In five weeks the swelling sub- sided, and in six weeks this gentleman was perfectly well. This chronic enlargement of the testicle very rarely requires an opera- tion, if treated in the way I have now stated. When I com- menced my profession 1 had no more idea but that the testicle required removal than any other surgeon at that time. I have seen a great number of them removed, and I confess that I have removed many myself: but if I were to do so now, I should be guilty of a great crime, for it is a disease which readily yields to the medical means which I have pointed out. There are seve- ral preparations now on the table, of testicles taken from persons under this disease, before the efficacy of this treatment was ascer- tained ; one of them, I am sorry to say, by myself. There is a species of chronic enlargement of the testicle, however, which requires the operation, as large abscesses are sometimes produced by it, which occasion great pain, so that the patient himself becomes anxious for the removal of the testicle. Fungous granulations spring from the surface of these abscesses ; they are not of the true malignant fungoid kind, but they resemble the granulations which spring through the dura mater, in consequence of injury to the brain. Even in this case, however, the granulations may be cut off from the surface, and the integuments brought to- gether. so as frequently to render the removal of the testicle un- necessary. Mr. Travers, has cured a case or two of this kind by the pres- sure of adhesive plaister. I liave seen cases cured by sprinkling powdered sulphate of copper, or nitrate of silver on the part, llie irritable testicle is a very formidable disease, and as far as I know, has not been described in surgical books. This complaint generally resists all the means which may be employed to sub- due it; and I have, in three instances, been under the necessity of removing the testicle. The part is so exceedingly tender, that ‘i r