265 ON HERNIA, in; but generally speaking, it fails to accomplish the object in view ; and the reason is this, that Poupart’s ligament supports the pressure of the truss, and great strength is required, so that the truss shall bear on the hernia. I have seen a child of two years old have a truss applied for femoral hernia; it has been steadily worn till it was twelve years of age, when the hernia was in the same state as before the application of the truss. A truss, however, should be worn to prevent the farther descent of any of the parts, but the result is generally less successful than in inguinal hernia. Theatment or Irreducible Femohal Hernia. In this complaint it will be right to wear a truss, as I men- tioned on the last evening, with a hollow in the pad, so as to re- ceive the hernia, and confine it. A gentleman, with an irredu- cible femoral hernia, containing omentum, consulted me. I re- commended a truss, with a depression in the pad, so that the hernia should be received into a cup, and the sides of the sac be gently pressed. Two years after this I saw my patient, and I in- quired how his hernia was; he told me that I should be surprised to hear that it was quite gone. This I doubted : he went home with me, and on examination I found that by pressure on the sides of the hernial sac, most of the omentum had been absorbed, and that little remained. In the treatment of irreducible fe- moral hernia, the truss is to be applied, and if the iiernial sac contains omentum, there will be a chance of its being ab- sorbed. Treatment of Strangulated Femoral Hernia, The symptoms of this complaint are more urgent than those of strangulated inguinal hernia; and the reason is, that the orifice through which the femoral hernia protrudes is smaller, and the pressure consequently greater. The patient complains of more pain than in inguinal hernia, and rarely lives so long (if the stric- ture remain) as a person under the .same circumstances with the other kinds of hernia. I have known a patient die seventeen hours only after the hernia (femoral) had become strangulated. With strangulated inguinal hernia, I have known patients live a week; in femoral, they generally survive four days, if the stricture remain ; but I have also known them die in so short a space as seventeen hours. Suppose you were called to a case of strangulated femoral hernia, how would you proceed t You would first resort to the