636 ON SYMPATHETIC BUBO AND OLHET. the mercury, and by this means you inject the glands of the groin. Irritation by sympathy, or from the venereal virus, ex- tends in this direction. Tlie plexus on the glans becomes inflamed, the absorbents on the dorsum irritated, and then the glands of the groin enlarged ; they are enlarged by a continued sympathy, rather than the sympathy by which one part becomes affected by another at a distance from it; it is by a continuation of the in- flammation, which commences at the mouth of the absorbents, and terminates in the gland. Gleet. The disease of which I shall now proceed to speak is pro- tracted, and difficult to cure; but first I have a few words to say on the nature of gleet. Gleet is said to be that stage of gonor- rhoea when the discharge ceases to be infectious. 1 doubt whe- ther there is such a complaint as gleet, according to this defini- tion, for I cannot help believing that a gonorrhoea never ceases to be infectious. Gonorrhoea, when neglected sinks into a gleet, and is known by the change of colour of the discharge, and the pain attending the inflammatory stage ceasing. In this state, is the discharge infectious or not? I doubt myself whether a go- norrhoea ever loses its power of causing infection as long as any discharge from the urethra remains; and I will give you my rea- sons for this opinion. A married gentleman went to Lisbon from this country, and whilst at a distance from home, departed, as too many do, from the path of virtue, and went astray. The Portu- guese lady with whom he cohabited, took care to give him a clap, that he might not forget her. He returned to England, and, at the end of five months and three days after first observing the gonorrhoea, he called on me, and asked whether he might return home with safety to his wife 1 He said that he had a little discharge, and wished to know if, after having had it five months and three days, it were possible for it to be infectious] I replied, “ Cer- tainly not, you may go home, there is no danger of your giving it to your wife.” He went home and unfortunately gave his wife a severe clap. I attended both the parties afterwards, and was ex- tremely sorry for what I had done ; but I thought at the time I gave the advice, that a gleet was not infectious. But I think differently now, and believe that, after a continuance of several months, the discharge is infectious. A gentleman from the North of England, and who had been recently married, came to me, and said that he had communicated a gonorrhoea to his wife.