ON CHANCRE. 545 rapidly destroys the part, unless mercury be given early ; it is more irregular in its appearance than chancres in other parts, and does not assume a character similar to those seated on the glans. If it happens to be on the edge of the prepuce, a good deal of effusion into the cellular membrane takes place, and phymosis is produced ; when the sore is situated just where the skin doubles over the penis, it is exceedingly troublesome—there is consider- ble swelling, also a difficulty in drawing back the skin ; in this situation it seldom fails to produce phymosis, from avhat cause it is scarcely necessary to explain to you—the inflammation leads to an effusion into the cellular tissue, and the result is phymosis. If the chancre be on the corona glandis, or between it and the frjenum, you often find it extending deep, and producing slough- ing of- the part, and even of the glans itself, which is not at all an uncommon result of deep-seated chancre at the corona glandis. The next circumstance which gives rise to a variety in the appearance, is when it ulcerates deeply into the cellular tissue : a chancre on the surface of the skin is very slightly irritable; but, if it passes the skin, and e.xtends into the cellular tissue, assumes a disposition to ulcerate and slough. A chancre on iie skin heals under the use of medicines and external applica- fions ; but, if once it enters beneath the skin, and inflames the ■ cellular tissue, it becomes irritable, sloughs, and is attended with danger; the danger arising when the chancre extends : beneath the part on which it began. When the chancre is on ithe surface of the skin, and does not produce deep ulceration, lit is a disease slow in its progrers, and easy of cure; but if, on the other hand, it extends deeply into the part, it proceeds with rapidity, and those acquainted with the disease dread it, know- ing the extent of slougliing which will be produced. But, gen- tlemen, of all the causes of variety of chancre, one of the most common, is the habit and constitution of the patient. If each of you (which God forbid!) had a chancre this evening, and you all used the same applications, in four or five days, scarcely two of you would have the chancre of the same appearance. Go into the admission rooms of these hospitals on taking-in days, and you will not see two men with chancres alike. The variety is not only produced by the previous mode of living, and the ■constitnlion of the patient, but any act of intemperance, excess ■of any kind, or any thing that hurries the circulation, will alter 'the action of the part. So, if two patients be attacked with 2.N