ON UI.CERS. 89 sore. Here our practice is just reversed. Lint is applied to the centre of the sore, for the purpose of keeping down the granulations on the surface; whereas the caustic is applied for the purpose of keeping down the granulations which are nearest the edge of the sore. In this way we promote the healing of the sore, forming a little circle by the caustic from day to day until we arrive at the centre. Adhesive plaister is used with tlie same intention, viz., that of keeping down the granulations. The common adhesive plaister is, however, too stimulating for this purpose; a plaister, composed of equal parts of the em- plastrum thuris compositum, and the emplastrum saponis, is a much better plaister to promote the healing of ulcers than the common adhesive plaister. This is a point deserving attention : because, if the application be of so stimulating a nature, as to excite inflammation and excoriate the skin, we are often under the necessity of leaving off the adhesive plaister. It sometimes happens, that the action is so great as to oblige us to apply a sheet of lead to the surface of the sore ; when this is necessary, you may apply a piece of lint covered with the ceratum cetacei, over these a piece of sheet lead, and round the whole a roller should be passed of about five )rards in length. These are the various modes of treatment in this state of the sore. The next circumstance to which we shall advert, as giving rise to difficulty in the treatment of ulcers, is a languid state of the sore, in which its action is too slight. What is the character of such a sore ? You may know that a sore is in this state, by the glossy and semi-transparent appearance of the granulations ; instead of the florid hue which characterises granulations in their healthy state, a considerable portion of them is bloodless. The fact is, that the vessels near the surrounding parts have not suf- ficient power to throw the blood to the extremities of the granu- lations, To remove this glossy appearance, and produce a healthy state of the sore, the application most commonly used is the unguentum hydrargyri nitroco-oxidi. This is a strong stimu- lating application, which occasions a determination of blood to the part and produces a florid redness in the granulations, in- stead of the semi-transparent appearance which they assume in the languid state of the sore. It produces, however, a white ap- pearance in the edge of the sore, arising from the thickened state of the cuticle, which prevents the growth of the granulations on the edge. This may be corrected by the application of the un-