323 HORDEOLUM. gress of the disease the general health becomes broken up. I shall now proceed to show you the operation for the remoi^a' of the eye. Extirpation of the Eye. Although this operation appears formidable, and is so to tlie patient, as it is a most painful one, yet it is not difficult of execu- tion. The best mode of performing it is as follows ;—7'he patient is to be placed in the sitting posture, or, at any rate, with the head elevated, and in order to steady the eye, or shift its position, if necessary, you are to pass a needle, armed with a ligature, through thef ore part of the globe of the eye, by which means you can readily steady it, or move it from one side to the other. If the lids are contracted, or the eye-ball is exceedingly large, it will be necessary to divide the outer angle in order to facilitate the operation. An assistant raises the upper lid, and the operator then introduces a double-edged straight knife through the con- junctiva, and divides the cellular membrane as extensively as he can. He next cuts through the oblique muscles; and having done this, he then divides the recti muscles and the optic nerve ; to complete this last step of the operation, a curved knife, adapted for the purpose, is used, and the globe of the eye is thus easily extracted. It seldom happens that any hemorrhage takes place which may not be stopped by dossils of lint. The lids are to be brought in apposition, a compress of linen is to be applied over the eye ; In- flammation should be guarded against, and the patient should not be neglected ; for although inflammation does not frequently supervene after the operation, yet it sometimes comes on, extends to the membranes of the brain, and proves fatal. Having now concluded the morbid affections of the globe of the eye, I shall proceed to speak of those of it? appendages, and first of the eyelids. Hordeolum. One of the most common affections of the eye-lids is that known by the name of stye, or hordeolum, from its resemblance to a bar- ley-corn. It consists of a small abscess in the lid, and is pro- duced by an obstruction in the follicles of Meibomius ; the secre- tion from the part is altered, becomes inspissated, lodges on the lid, excites irritation, inflammation, and the process of suppura- tion ; lastly, the small abscess breaks and matter is discharged. In most instances the suppuration is confined to a small space, but in others it pula on the character of a boil, and sloughing of