ON PARACENTESIS ABDOMINIS. 419 occurred lo him that there might be some deception in the ap- pearances, on account of the distended state of the bladder. He asked the lady whether she made water freely ; she replied in the affirmative. He was not satisfied, however, and upon introdu- -mg a catheter, he drew off an enormous quantity of water, which had occasioned the appearance of a dropsy of tbe abdomen. A surgeon less cautious and intelligent than Mr. Cline might, under such circumstances, have tapped the belly at a part where there might have been considerable danger of wounding some of the abdominal viscera. The patient may either be placed in a chair during the operation, or may remain in the recumbent pos- ture in bed, while the water is drawn off. The latter position is preferable, because it prevents the fainting and'spasms which of- ten arise, when the stomach and diaphraghm suddenly lose the support of the water. You should direct the patient to turn his body over in the bed, and you may then perform the operation with the greatest possible ease. There is no necessity for a ban- dage on the upper part of the abdomen ; pressure on the sides will be sufficient for the purpose of evacuating the water. If you open the skin a little with a lancet, the trocar will enter with more ease ; you might, indeed, divide the lineaalba with the lan- cet, but this is not necessary. The usual mode of performing the operation, is to place the patient in a high chair, with a pail or "ub between his knees, the surgeon sitting in a chair. A beet is crossed round the abdomen, the ends of which are field by an assistant, who presses the sheet tightly on the abdomen. The surgeon makes a small incision with the lancet and introduces the trocar through the linea alba, into the part in the cyst or peritoneum only, according as it is ascites or dropsy. The water should be completely evacuated; if any portion is suffered to remain, it will form the nidus, if I may be allowed the expression, for a future accumulation of water. It has been recommended by a respectable surgeon of Chiches- ter, to leave the canula in the wound, for the purpose of ex. citing such a degree of irritation in the peiitoneum as may pre- vent the future accumulation of water. Experience will not at present Justify me in advising you to adopt this practice ; it has been tried by a person in this town, and such irritation produced by it as led to severe inflammation of the peritoneum ; and, sub- sequently, destruction of life. I should observe, however, tliat in cases where this disease has not been reproduced, marks of 2 E 2