15 ON INFLAMMATION. is very severe indeed, you must not limit your medicine to any particular part, but endeavour to restore all the secretions. This will be best accomplished by administering mercurials to act upon the liver, saline medicines upon the intestines and kidneys, and antimonials on the skin. The second method of relieving irritation is to allay the excite- ment of the nervous system; this may be done by giving opium and antimony combined, or calomel, antimony, and opium, to act on the skin and liver as well as the nervous system. The dose for an adult is two grains of calomel, two of antimonial powder, and one grain of opium. To this you may add saline medicines, if you like, as they are given as much to assist the medical man as his patient! It must not be considered, however, that such medicines are entirely useless : the liquor ainmoni® acetacis, with tincture opii, is a good medicine. The alkalies, judiciously given, lessen the irritability of some organs, as the bladder, when in an irritable state. In cases of irritation, bleeding must be resorted to with care, for if it be carried to a great extent, the powers of the constitu- tion will be unequal to the reparation of the injury. A man was brought into Guy’s Hospital with concu.ssion of the brain ; the dresser who admitted him was a great admirer of venesection, and bled the patient three times a-day ; in ten days he died. Upon examining the head after death, a very slight laceration of the brain was found, but no signs of any attempt at restoration. The continued abstraction of blood had robbed nature of her restorative powers. In compound fractures it is likewise extremely dangerous to bleed largely. When there is chronic irritation, no medicine will be found equal to the Plummer’s pill, five grains night and morning ; it increases the secretions of the liver, intestines, kidneys, and skin. If the blue pill be given, or calomel, it should be followed by an aperient in tlie morning, else its action will be confined to the liver. Inflammation. Tfle next subject is inflammation. Inflammation is the means by which local injuries are repaired, and it may be therefore considered as the restorative principle. There are four signs that commonly attend it, viz. redness, pain, increased heat, and swelling. first. Redness, This arises from an increase of the red par •