ON INFLAMMATION. 20 to form a clot of blood at that part of the vessel where it has been tied ; inflammation supervenes, adhesive matter is thrown out, by which the internal coats of the artery become firmly glued together, and hemorrhage prevented. If the constitution be in an unhealthy condition, this process will not be effected ; so that when the ligature comes off, the person may die of hemor- rhage. Inflammation, without any obvious cause, is generally of the unhealthy kind, and arises from irritability of the constitu- tion, and an enfeebled state of the affected pait. LECTURE III. Acute and Chronic Inflammation. Inflammation is of two kinds. Acute and Chronic. The first usually goes through its various stages with great rapidity, while the latter is exceedingly slow in its progress, and is either the re- sult of acute inflammation, or owing to a peculiar state of con- stitution, occurring in persons who have lived internperately, or wlio have been exposed to excessive and laborious exertion, or who are the victims of anxiety and disappointment. Acute Injiammation.—One of the best examples of acute in- flammation is seen in the breast after delivery. The adhesive stage is marked by hardness and pain ; the suppurative, by irri- tative fever, fluctuation, and throbbing or pulsation : ulceration usually succeeds in a short space of time, and the matter is soon discharged. Chronic Injiammation.—A good example of acute inflamma- tion, terminating in chronic, is observable in ophthalmia. When consulted in cases of this description, during the acute stage of inflammation, you must bleed both locally and generally. This may be done either by opening a vein in the arm, by the appli- cation of leeches to the temples and palpebra, or by opening the temporal artery, which sometimes relieves from its free anasto- moses with the ocular arteries. You should use such applica- tions as will soothe and allay the local irritation, and these should consist of narcotic and emollient fomentations. When , by these means the acute inflammation ends, the chronic fre- quently begins. In the first, our object is to diminish power ; in the second, it is necessary to stimulate the vessels, to contract their diameters, to le.ssen the quantity of blood which has accu- mulated in tliem, and thus restore them to their natural state. I his is best effected by aistringent and stimulating lotions, as th®