668 ON COMPOUND FRACTURES. being frequently moved. Nothing is so bad in the treatment ot compound fracture as the frequent changing of the positions and dressings of the patient; it is a state of rest which is necessary for the recovery of the parts, and, therefore, the less they are dis- turbed the better. Give opium to quiet the irritation, and give also, at the same time, the saline mixture, with the liquor antim. tartariaat. to keep up the secretion of the skin. I shall next speak of the difficulties sometimes met with in the treatment of these accidents; and, first of the difficulty which now and then exists in the reduction of the bone, which occasionally arises from a portion of skin being nipped under the pro- jecting extremity of the bone. When you try to extend the limb, you find you cannot bring the skin into its place. If this pro- jecting portion of bone be not large, make an incision through the integuments, and turn them on one side sufficiently to reduce the none, and afterwards try to unite the parts by the adhesive process. When you experience any difficulty in the reduction of a frac- ture which is very oblique, do not divide the integuments, as the probabilities are that the periosteum has been injured on the ex- posed bone, and that it would afterwards separate by a tedious process of exfoliation ; the vitality of the part is very low, and the wound necessary to be made to replace the bone would be a large one. But what 1 advise you to do is, to saw off the sharp projections of bone at the extremities of the fractured portions, and then carefully replace the bone in its proper situation. The muscles will draw the ends of the bone together, even if it be shortened. Do not adopt this practice, however, where there are two bones, and one is not fractured, for if the broken or the sawn surfaces be not brought into contact, no ossific union can take place. I know that some cases have been published by a very ingenious surgeon, in which it was supposed that ossific union had taken place between the separated portions of the tibia ; but I think that this union was effected by a tough ligamento-carti- laginous material, and not by bone. If the bone le very much shatce ed, and several pieces be de- tached and loose, remove them, but with the greatest degree of care, so as to avoid irritating the wound more than is absolutely necessary. If these portions of bone be not removed, they will produce excessive irritation, and will very much retard the nealing of the wound by frequent exfoliations. But if the pieces bo large, do not detach them, for if they be connected by perios-