ON GHANULATION. 85 defoiinity would arise from this accident; for he liad witnessed instances in which the eye-brows had been drawn up, so that the patient had no power of closing his eyes, from a similar cause. Granulations, however, very soon arose on the surface of the forehead ; the sore healed kindly, and the fatlier was de- lighted to see what he supposed to be the favourable termination of the case. Some time after this, however, I saw this gentle- man, and upon inquiring after the child, he told me that he was very well, but that a horrible deformity had ensued from the accident: the eye-brows were drawn up, the eye-lids elevated, and the forehead was quite wnnkled. This took place a few weeks after the healing of the sore, in consequence of the con- traction of the cicatrix ; and unfortunately this was a deformity incapable of being remedied by any means which art could suggest. I have never seen a case like that represented in the plaister bust on the table, where the chin is united to the breast, which was capable of being cured. You may, by put- ting a knife behind the bridle and dividing it, separate the chin, to a considerable extent, from the breast; but whatever force you may use for keeping the head back, the contraction will ulti- mately be the same. There are some parts of the body, however, in which defonnities of this kind may be removed ; as in cases in which the thigh is united to the abdomen, where the bridle may be divided, and the joint afterwards straightened; but where the bridle is broad, as under the chin, no operation will avail. In the formation of cicatrices the original parts may all be re- produced, except two. In the first place, new skin, though dif- fering somewhat in texture and smoothness, is still a substance similar to the original skin. Skin may be defined to be a sub- stance producing rete mucosum and cuticle. Are both produced by the newly-formed skin I Undoubtedly. The cuticle is pro- duced very quickly, and with respect to the rete mucosum, or covering matter of the skin, a little time elapses before it is pro- duced ; but it is produced, as the following fact will show ;— The new skin of a Negro does not become white, as in that of Europeans, but is at first red, and after a little time turns blacker than the original skin. I was struck with this in the other hospital, in the ca.se of a Negro, who had been a sailor in a privateer, and had received wounds in different parts of his body. I observed that the cicatrices were everywhere blacker than the