620 ON DISLOCATIONS. hare forgotten that the ligaments are inelastic, and as the opening in it was sufficiently large to allow the head of the bone to pass out, so it must also allow it to be returnetl through the same aperture. The peculiar ligaments of joints sometimes prevent the reduction of dislocations, as in the knee, where the bone should be moved in such a direction as to relieve that ligament which remains entire. The ligaments of the ankle joint are of extraordinary strength, and the bones of this j int will often rather break than their ligaments give way. The muscles form the principal obstacle to the reduction ; the rigid involuntary contraction of the muscles is immense, and this power is pro- portioned to the length of time which has elapsed after the injury; it continues sometimes even after death. Th's power is to be overcome by general relaxation being effected by consti- tutional remedies, and by gentle but continued force. Hence the great advantage of considering the power and direction of the larger muscles previous to making any attempts at reduction. The most powerful mechanical means would fail, unaided by constitutional remedies. The constitutional means to be employed for the purpose of reduction, are those v^hich produce a tendency to syncope, and this necessary slate may be best induced by one or other of the following means; by nausea, bleeding, or the warm bath. Of these I consider bleeding as the most powerful; but in recent cases it is not required. That the effect may be produced as quickly as possible, the blood should be drawn from a large orifice, and the patient kept in the erect position ; for by tliis mode of depletion syncope is produced before so large a quantity of blood as might injure the patient is lost. Where the warm bath is thought preferable, it should be employed at the temperature of 100 to 110, and. as the object is to produce fainting, he should be kept in it till this is effected, then imme- diately wrapped in a blanket, and the mechanical power applied. It may also be accomplished by giving nauseating doses of tartar- izod antimony, as a quarter or half of a grain every five minutes; and a good proof of the effectof nausea is, the man’s being unable to lift his hand on a level with his shoulder. As its action is rather uncertain, it is better to use it, with a view of keeping up the nausea first produced by the two preceding measures. Another mode of relaxing the muscular power is, by making the patient support a weight with the dislocated arm. The reduction of the bone is to be attempted, after lessening thejiowerof the muscles, by fixing one bone and drawing the other towards its socket.