ON VIRULENT GONOKRUCEA. 501 dofs not require it, (thus exposing the health, and even the life of the patient, to danger) is, in the present slate of our knowledge, perfectly unpardonable. It is lamentable to retleci on the number of lives which must have been destroy- ed by phthisis and otherwise, in consequence of tlie im- prudent exhibition of mercury for a disease which did not re- quire it, which prevailed among the older surgeons. At tljc pre- sent tune, however, a surgeon must be either grossly ignorant, or shamefully negligent of the duty which he owes to the cliaracter of his profession, and to the common dictates of humanity, if he persists in giving mercury for this disease. Let those pe^^ons who suppose that gonorrhoea can be cured by mercury, go round our wards, and see whether mercury has any effect on that dis- ease. Look, gentlemen, at 100 patients in our foul wards, many of whom come into the hospital with syphilis and gonorrhoea; and many, I am sorry to say, who have only gonorrhoea, but who are invariably carried to these wards. What is the mise- rable treatment of these patients? You are aware, gentlemen, that I scarcely ever enter the foul wards of the other hospital ;— when a particular case demands my attention, I have the patient removed to a clean ward. 1 will tell you why I do not enter those wards, gendemen. 1 abstain from entering them, becau.se patients under gonorrhoea are compelled to undergo so infamous a system of treatment that I cannot bear to witness it. To com- pel an unfortunate patient to undergo a course of mercury, for a disease which does not require it, is a proceeding which reflects disgrace and dishonour on the character of a medical institution. Xo consideration shall induce me to repress my feelings on this subject j no authority shall restrain me from giving full expres- sion to those feelings. As long as I continue a surgeon of Guy’s Hospital 1 will endeavour to do my duty; but I care not whe- ther I continue a surgeon of that hospital another day. I do say that the present treatment of patients under gonorrhoea in these hospitals, by putting them unnecessarily under a course of mer- cury for five or six weeks, is infamous and disgraceful. The health of a patient is, perhaps, irremediably destroyed by this treatment; and, after all, not the slightest effect is produced by it on the disease. If- he is cured of his gonorrhoea at all, he must be cured by other means. If you go to a patient for go- norrhrea in the foul wards, at the end of his course, and ask him how many times he has rubbed in he will generally answer.