DISLOCATIONS OF THE LOWER JAW. 639 be found in a line anterior to the upper. You may depress th» jaw a little, but to a very inconsiderable e.vtent. The appear, ance is just that of a person when yawning. There is a depresv sion just before the meatus auditorius, from the absence of the condyloid process from its cavity, and there is a projection of the cheeks, from the coronoid processes being advanced towards the buccinators. The pain, although severe, is not attended with any dangerous consequences ; a considerable degree of motion is recovered by time, and the jaws nearly approximated. The saliva is very much increased in quantity, in consequence of irritation of the parotid glands, and it dribbles over the mouth. A blow upon the chin, when the mouth is widely opened, will cause this accident. Yawning very deeply will also sometimes produce the same effect. The jaw has also been dislocated in the attempts made to draw teeth, by a sudden action of the hand when the mouth has been too widely opened. In the partial dislocation of the jaw, the mouth is not so widely opened as in the complete dislocation, but the patient cannot close it, from the condyloid process on one side being advanced under the zygoma. This accident is easily distinguished, by the chin being thrown to the opposite side of the dislocation, the incisor teeth are advanced upon the upper jaw, but are no longer in a line with the axis of the face. AVhen you are first called to this accident, the patient presents a very ludicrous appearance, from the twist which is given to the face; it is, on the whole, however, a serio-comic spectacle. These dislocations are generally reduced by wrapping a handkerchief around the thumbs ; placing them on the coronoid processes, and depressing the jaw, you force it backwards as well as downwards, and the bone suddenly slips into its place. In a recent dislocation, this mode will succeed very well, but not so easily as the modes which I shall presently describe to you. I should advise you to place some body that will not injure the gums, behind the molar teeth on each side of the mouth, and for this purpose I know no better material than two corks, and then raise the chin over them. This practice is very effectual in reducing the dislocation, and is less likely to injure the bone or the soft parts. I have also used two forks for the same purpose. Having wrapped a towel or handkerchief round thrir points. I carried their handles into the nmuih on each side behind the molar teeth; they were then he'd by an .assistant; and, drawing the chin towards the upper jaw, the bone was easily and quickly reduced.