■ON PUNCTtUUNG Till-: BLADDER. water at pleasure. A few days ago, 1 saw Mr. Copeland Ilutchi- 4C0 integunienL^ in the first instance, because the trocar will after wards enter the bladder with more ease, and because, if there Should be any extravasation of urine by the side of the instru- ment, It will more rapidly escape. 'J he incision should extend as far as the linea alba; with respect to the direction in which the trocar is to be passed, you must not, on any account, direct the point of the trocar downwards towards the anus, but obliquely rom the penis to the back of the pelvis, just towards the basis of the sacrum. The trocar and canula^eing introduced, the water passes through the canula; an elastic gum catheter should be introduced through the canula, and left in the bladder. It is better not to leave a silver canula in the bladder for any length of time, because it is liable to ulcerate the posterior part of the bladder. Sharpe objected to the operation above the pubes on that ground ; but this objection is removed by the substitution of an elastic gum catheter. There was another objection taken by Sharpe to this operation. He found that the urine was extrava- sated between the bladder and the posterior surface of the abdo* minal muscljs, and accumulating in the cellular tissue, produced large abscesses, occasioning a high degree of irritation, and often destruction of life. This danger may be prevented by using an elastic gum catheter with a plug, by which the urine may be occasionally withdrawn, or a bladder attached to its extremity, into which the urine may distil. The catheter may be left in the bladder for a great length of time without producing any injurious consequences. A man was tapped in the bladder in a situation which is not usual, the linea semilunaris; and a female catheter was intro- duced into it, and worn upwards of twelve months. The ope- ration was performed by Mr. Hare, a surgeon in Essex. I saw this patient twelve months after the operation had been performed; be had then the female catheter in his bladder. I removed this catheter, and succeeded in introducing a common one into the bladder through the urethra, witli much difficulty, for he had a very bad stricture. In a short time he passed his urine freely by the natural course. I have seen some cases in which the bladder has been punctured above the pubes, where the patient has drawn off his water at pleasure by turning a little silver cock. A pro- fessor at Edinburgh, who underwent this operation, wore a tube in his bladder for some years after, by which he drew off his