669 ON COMPOUND FRACTURES. teum they will again unite; or if there be one large piece, and the periosteum on it is entire, let it remain. Compound fractures are often attended with hemorrhage from large arteries, which have been wounded by the broken extremi- ties of the bone. It was formerly the practice to amputate in these accidents, whenever any vessel of importance was wounded, under the supposition that the injury could not be repaired, and that gangrene would, in all probability, happen. But I have seen so many limbs saved, even when the principal artery going to the limb has been torn, that I am induced by experience to adopt a different plan. I will just give you a table of some of these cases, and mention their results. Sometimes the anterior tibial artery is torn through. In a case which I perfectly recollect, the vessel was taken up by a tenaculum and secured, and the patient did very well. In one case, where the posterior tibial artery was wounded, tt was secured by ligature, and the patient also did well. But in another case of the same kind the man died, but the hemorrhage was stopped by pressing a piece of lint into the wound, and the artery was not tied. The introduction of extraneous bodies into the wound to sup- press hemorrhage is wrong in compound fracture, as they produce too much irritation, and do not effectually answer the proposed object. It is better in some cases, in which you have great diffi- culty to secure the vessel at the wound, not to be twitching and pulling, and continually irritating the wound, and frequently to little purpose, but to cut down at once on the artery, in its course to the part. If, for example, the posterior tibial artery should be wounded just below the middle of the leg, where it is deeply covered by muscle, it should be cut down upon higher up, and secured Mr. Hey sawed through the fibula to get at the pos- terior tibial from the outer part of the leg; but I should recom- mend it to be secured from the inner side of the leg by making an incision between the gastrocnemii and the tibia, and then cu'ting through the fascia covering the deep muscle.s. I have only known one instance of the femoral artery being divided in compound fracture, and I thought it right to amputate immediately; the hemorrhage was but slight, but as the artery and vein were both tom through, I considered there was very little chance of saving the limb. In two cases of division of the brachiaV artery by fracture, am- putation became necessary. In one of these cases I amputated even whilst the gangrene, which had taken place in the lower