ON I’OISONS. 487 spot where the murder was committed, very shortly after the crime was perpetrated, but it appeared he had ridden with ex- traordinary speed ; his horse was excessively heated. It was proved that iie had passed through a particular gate, soon after the murder, and other strong circumstances of suspicion con- curred so as to leave little doubt of his guilt. Finding that he was likely to be brought to trial on this churge, he determined to destroy himself, and for that purpose he took a quantity of solid opium. The quantity which he took was not exactly ascertained. At twelve o’clock in the day he had apoplectic stertor; on putting a candle to his eye, the pupil did not contract, and he was in a. state of insensibility. Attempts were made to produce vomiting without success, and at nine o’clock on the following morning he died. On examination of the body after death the stomach ap- peared to be very much reddened, and a considerable quantity of solid opium was found in it. In all cases of violent death from opium, a reddened appearance of the stomach will be found. I do not, however, believe that it is really inflammatory; inflam- mation, and a mere error loci frorn determination of blood, are very diflerent states of parts. I do not believe that opium has the power of producing inflammation of the stomach, and I men- tion this that it may guide your judgrnent if you should be called upon to give evidence in a court of justice, in a case of this kind. Y'ou should make up your minds never to give an opinion as to the death of an individual being produced by a vegetable poison, unl^ you find that vegetable poison in the stomach, or some other strong proof be given that it was administered. No appear- ances after death ought to induce you to take an oath that an in- dividual has perished by a vegetable poison. 1 may here mention that Mr. Hunter himself used to lament that he had not taken the same precaution on the occasion of a trial which agitated the public mind very much forty years ago. He regretted that he ha/1 not made more experiments on the subject of poisons before giving an opinion in a court of justice. He found himself a good deal embarrassed on that occasion ; the lawyers took advantage of his embarrassment; and he used to express his regret publicly in hLs lectures that he had not given more attention to the subject before he ventured to give an opinion it) a court of justice. When opium is taken in considerable doses for a length of time, the re- sult Ls, that it renders the complexion of tlie person extremely sallow, it produces obstmale cosliveness, and iutleed arrests ajl