497 ON VIRULENT GONORRIICEA. two. tliree, or more streams, in consequence of the contracted and irregular state of the urethra. At first the discharge from the urethra is mucous, but after a little time it assumes a purulent appearance. The matter becomes yellow, and, if tlie inflamma- tion is very considerable, green ; and it is often intermixed with blood, so as to give a sanious appearance to the discharge. You are enabled, therefore, from the colour and appearance of the matter, to judge of the degree of inflammation in the urethra. These are the circumstances which occur with respect to the appearance of the matter. I should observe to you that although the appearance of this fluid is purulent, it has not realjy the charac- ter of common pus. If you examine the discharge by the aid of a magnifying power, you will find that, though there may be some few globules of pus, the greater part of the discharge is mucus. The time this matter will continue to discharge is quite indefinite. It is said that gonorrhcea will wear itself out, but it will sooner wear out the patience of the patient. I have tnown it continue for months, and I shall have occasion to men- tion a case in which it continued to be infectious during all that time. It sometimes continues for so long a time, notwithstanding all the means which may be employed for its cure, as to be an opprobium to our art. In no case, however, ought you to rely on the efibrts of nature for its cure; for, in general, you may very much expedite the cure by adopting a judicious method of treatment. Besides these external effects on the urethra, gonor- rhcea takes also an internal course. It does not confine itself, in its external effects, to the beginning of the urethra, but often produces an erysipelatous inflammation of the glands and fraenum, occasioning effusion into the prepuce and phymosis. The absor- bent vessels on the dorsum penis often become enlarged and hard, and produce little abscesses, which go on to suppuration. The glands of the groin are sympathetically affected, and in a first gonorrhcea, seldom fail to become enlarged and painful. Where this effect takes place from gonorrhoea, several glands of the groin are affected at the same time ; whereas, in the absorption of the poison of syphilis, a single gland only is enlarged on each side. Abscesses are very rarely occasioned by a sympathetic enlargement of the glands of the groin from gonorrhoea; tliey may almost always be prevented by proper attention on the part of the surgeon. When I say the glands of the groin are sympathetically affected, I am aware that this is not a strictly 2 K