119 TREATMENT OF GANGRENE. I sent Mr. Callaway, who was my apprentice at that lime, to see how the patient was doing j he found that the pulse had fallen to 90; and no stump that ever came under my care turned out more favourably. Thus, instead of increasing the irritability of the constitution, the source of the irritation being removed, the health of the patient became improved. Of Gangrene in Old Persons. We often find old persons afflicted with gangrene, from very slight causes, and particularly those who are tall. The heart being naturally weakened by age, the circulation becomes ex- tremely languid in the feet; hence mortification of the toes ensues. The appearances which the part assumes are these:—at first it is red and painful; the person, thinking little of the matter, puts upon the affected part a piece of .men ; in a few days the cuticle comes off, and there issues from the surface a sanious discharge; red streaks are now seen passing from different parts of the foot up the leg; and the glands in the groin often undergo considerable inflammation and enlargement; all the absorbent vessels of the fool becoming inflamed, produce universal redness of the diseased member. Soon after this the gangrene begins to extend, destroys the whole of the foot, and passes to the upper part of the leg, where it usually stops, as it seldpm reaches the thigh ; the constitution becomes considerably influenced; there is some degree of fever, and the cheeks are of a florid red co- lour. This gangrene will not commonly destroy life, if atten- tion be paid to the patient. It generally arises from ossi- fication of the arteries—not of the large vessels, but of the small. These losing their elasticity, combined with a debili- tated action of the heart, give rise to the disease of which I am now speaking. The earthy matter is sometimes deposited in great quantities in the large vessels; and here {shmving a pre- paration) is an example, in which the deposition of earthy sub- stance has rendered the principal arteries of the leg, and even part of the femoral artery, impervious. I recollect some time ago a very intelligent surgeon telling me, that he thought a certain nobleman, who he was at that time attending, had ossification of the arteries of the leg, and that it would some day give rise to gangrene—of which gangrene his Lordship has since died. When ossification of the blood-vessels atcists, very slight causes will give rise to gangrene. A gentleman of the city, in cutting