0\ IRRITATIOK. 10 of sympathy is from the affected part to the origin of the nerve, as in pain in the loins consequent on diseased testicles. Irritation on the nerves of the grand sympathetic is communicated to the stomach probably through the medium of the semilunar ganglion, and all injuries to the stomach are attended with serious effects. I could relate to you several instances in which injury to this organ had proved fatal. A man walking through Fleet-street, one day, hap- pened to quarrel with a woman,when another came up, and gave him a blow in the region of the stomach, which caused almost in- stantaneous death. On dissection, no cause could be found to ac- count for his sudden death. A man belonging to the India House was attempting to lift aweight,when another came up, and jocose- ly said, “ Here, stand on one side, and let an abler man attempt itand at the same instant gave him a slight blow on the stomach, when the poor fellow dropped down and expired. His body, up- on being opened, showed no marks of violence. Irritation is either local or constitutional. Sometimes it is local, affecting only particular parts; at others, attacking the whole system. A decayed tooth will produce an ab- scess, and the matter will escape by forming an opening through the cheek. This ulcer will be very difficult to heal if the tooth re- main j but extract it, and the disease will quickly disappear, the cause of irritation being removed. Many cases of this kind have fallen under my observation, and I will relate a few by way of il- lustration. Cases.—Some years since, two persons came to me from Wis- beach (without being aware of each other’s situation, or of what surgeon each had consulted), both having an extensive abscess near the alveolar process, which had produced an opening through the cheek. The disease in both had been of long standing, and the pain extended to the surrounding parts of the jaw. I directed a diseased tooth near the ulcer, in each person, to be drawn, which being done, the patients rapidly recovered. A lady in Essex had, for a long period, been afflicted with a fun- goid granulation, which protruded through an ulcer in the cheek, and which had resisted the use of every means. Upon stating one day that a tooth near the part was occasionally painful, she was re- commended to get it drawn ; the tooth was extracted, and the fun- gus quickly disappeared. A gentleman of my acquaintance had, for many yearn, been ex- ceedingly annoyed by an ulcer on the chin ; every attempt to heal