ON RACHITIS. 615 of mucus, her natura'l delicacy having restrained her from making water as of;en as she had occasion. This was followed by a disease of the womb, which proved fatal. I have read a book lately with greeit pleasure, or, rather, I have looked through it, for I cannot say that I very often read a book, in which the author recommends a particular mode of exercise, with a^view of bring- ing certain muscles of the body into action, so as to oppose re- sistance where there is any deviation from the natural form. The plan is founded on sound and rational principles, and is well calculated to have the effect of opening the chest, keeping the shoulders well back, and bringing the spine into its natural posi- tion. In rickety affections of the knees, horse exercise is of great advantage ; if the patient is very young he maybe allowed to ride the rocking-horse as long as he likes. The position on horseback throws the knees outwards, while the exercise is be- ncEcia' to the general health of the patient. I shall detain you, gentlemen, a few moments longer on my own affairs, and those of my colleagues. Their feelings have been hurt by the observations which I made on the abuse of mercury, in the treatment of patients for gonorrhoea in these hospitals. Those observations having been made for many years in these lectures, are not applicable to them. Who are the men, gentle- men, against whom it has been supposed that these observations were directed 1 Are they men whom I could possibly feel dis- posed to injure? Mr. Travers was my apprentice, Mr. Green is my godson, Mr. Tyrrell is my nephew, Mr. Key is my nephew, Mr. Morgan was my apprentice. I feel proud in having such men around me, and I believe at no former period has the surgi- cal department of these hospitals been so well filled as it is by them. I do not wish to be understood as disparaging the abili- ties of former surgeons, but what I do say is, that there have never, at any one time, been so many persons officiating as sur- germs 'o these hospitals, who have been so properly educated to the profession. It is my wish to uphold the profession, and it is because I wish to uphold it that I wish its abuses to be corrected. I Irelieve much good has already resulted from my observations on the abuse of mercury. It is not my intention to retract my opinions; and I am happy in being able to state that the present surgeons of St. Thomas’s and Guy’s have never pursued the system of treatment which I deprecated in the lecture on gonorr- hrea, and that the venereal wards of Guy’s are about to be opened within a week uivUr new and improved reguUiliont! I have spokon