443 on THE DIFFERENT AMPUTATIONS. When the flap operation is to be performed, it should be done, as I before stated to you, two-thirds of the leg downwards ; you push the catling through the integuments and muscles of the back of the leg at this part, and carry your incision down- wards ; when you consider the knife has passed sufficiently far, you are to make it cut its way out immediately at the back of the leg, and let the termination of the flap be of a semilunar shape ; it will then correspond to the form of the wound, to which it will afterwards be applied, viz., the upper part of the stump. A circular incision is now to be made over the leg, so as to meet the incisions where the catling first penetrated, and you remove the limb by sawing through the bones. In addition to the objections I have already mentioned, there are two others of very considerable importance; it does not heal near so well as the common amputation ; from the constant re- action of the muscles of the calf, the flap becomes drawn from the surface of the bone which exposes it, and the stump usually ulcerates most extensively. We have never seen, in our hospi- tals, that this operation has succeeded so well as the one I shall presently mention to you, and consequently, it has been aban- doned. There is another objection that I will mention to you against its performance, which is, that if hemorrhage should occur when the ligatures come away, it will be almost impossible to get at the vessels so as to secure them ; and this arises from their becoming so deeply imbedded in the soft parts. Altogether, therefore, it is an operation which it will be prudent in you to avoid performing. Now, gentlemen, of Amputation op the Leg below the Knee. First let me mention a few rules for your guidance, when you perform this operation. In amputation below the knee, if its con- dition will allow of it, the bone should be sawed through four inches below the point of the patella ; when you cut through the integuments, your incision should be made with a view of saving two inches of these for the purpose of covering the stump ; the quantity, however, is to be regulated according to the size of the limb ; and in accidents, v/here the parts have not been reduced by previous disease, four inches frequently will not be found too large a portion. Your principal object, gentlemen, should be to save integuments, and not muscle: to preserve muscle for the purpose of covering the stump in these amputations is an exceed-