TREATMENT OF GANGRENE. 115 called to a patient whose feet are benumbed by the application of cold, you must sit by his bed-side, pour the camphorated spirit into your hand, and rub it on his feet with the utmost possible gentleness, so that the part may not be irritated by violent fric- tion. When the first effects of cold are removed, it will be pro- per to apply poultices to the part. The poultices must be cold, for warm applications to the part are to be carefully avoided. One of the most valuable of our nobility died of gangrene from an imprudence in this respect. He was out shooting in Decem- ber last, and his feet having become-benumbed, he put them into warm water as soon as he returned home. The consequence was, that his toe became gangrenous ; the gangrene soon extended to the other foot, and he died from its effects. When parts are frost-bitten in colder climates, you are aware that the common practice is to restore the circulation by rubbing them with snow. So much for the prevention of gangrene. But as soon as gangrene has commenced it will be necessary to apply a gentle stimulus to the parts, with a view of supporting the action of the surrounding parts which are threatened with the destruction of life. The application which I have found to be most uniformly successful in such cases, is the poultice of stale beer grounds. The stale beer grounds,^ which may be ob- tained in any public-house, should be mixed with linseed meal, and a poultice formed of them, which will produce a gentle and beneficial stimulus to the part, and prevent the gangrene from spreading to the surrounding skin. Spirituous fomentations are also of use to the same purpose. At the same time that this lo- cal treatment is employed, means must be taken to support the constitution, which is debilitated by excessive action. The best mode of supporting the constitution is by the exhibition of am- monia mixed with opium. From seven to ten grains of the car- bonate of ammonia, with twenty drops or half a drachm of the tincture of opium, should be taken two'or three times a-day, or even more frequently, an ounce every four hours. This plan will generally prevent the extension of gangrene. Bark was formerly extolled, as posscs.sing great virtue in cases of gangrene ; but it is doubtful whether it does not do as much harm as good. For the first two or three days the patient feels comfoitable, and his health is improved by its exhibition ; but after a short time his stomach becomes loaded and oppressed. It first I ‘J