SIZE OF CALCULI 338 cleus for a stone. The stone will be composed of the triple phosphate or of uric acid, according to the degree of irritrUion which has been kept up ; if it has been considerable, the stone will contain the triple phosphate. The next circumstance to which I shall advert, is the number of calculi found in the bladder. I do not think that the patient is in greater danger in an operation, from a larger number of stones being in the bladder, or even so much, as when there is only one large or moderate-sized stone. The introduction of a pair of forceps into the bladder, for removing one or more stones, is not dangerous, but the great danger, gentlemen, is if the parts are bruised, and cause of irritation produced. Here are nine calculi that were taken from one person ; but this is not a great number.—Here are 37. The largest number that 1 ever took from one person is 142 ; it was from a gentleman of Worcester; he survived the operation, and I operated on him again ; all the calculi consists of uric acid, or at least those which have been analyzed do, and the others appear to be composed of the same. It was this case which led me to say just now, that the introduction of the forceps for removing a stone is not dan- gerous ; for at the first operation I introduced the forceps seventy times, sometimes withdrawing them without a single calculus, at others with three : after the operation he suffered very little ; for the introduction of the forceps is not dangerous, but the danger arises from the bruise of the part, and from the violence used in extracting large calculi. Size op Calculi. The usual weight of calculi found in the bladdei is from half an ounce to two ounces ; most frequently under two ounces. The largest I ever extracted is the one I now show you ; its weight is sixteen ounces. After I introduced a pair of forceps, 1 was obliged to send for a gimblet, in order to bore it, but it was so firm that I could not. I succeeded, however in extracting it, by dis- engaging one blade of the forceps, using it as in midwifery, and then by bringing the stone under the pubes and above the os coccygis, I managed so as to remove it. Mr. Mayo, a surgeon at Winchester, extracted a stone fifteen ounces in weight, but that was broken. The largest stone that I ever saw extracted without its being broken, (at the same time the patient surviving) is one that was taken from a patient at the Norwich hospital, it jpighed eight ounces. But the weight and size of stones do not