S35 ON CALCULI IN THE BLADDER. bladder the sjTnptoras change; there will be a pain along the urethra, extending from the neck of the bladder forwards, though this is not always present ; but opposite to the fratnum, about an inch froni the extremity of the penis, there is always considerable pain ; and the patient walks with difficulty, with slight pain at the end of the yard. Some persons will come into your room, sit down, and say that they think that they have a stone in the bladder, and talk lightly of it; but you may depend, gentlemen, that they have no such thing; the pain felt opposite to the frienum, in cases of stone of the bladder, is as if a knife was run- ning through the penis, and they will describe it as a deep-seated pain. It is different in degree in many cases, some being ex- ceedingly irritable, others being much less so—but the pain is generally very severe. Very little untie epn be kept in the bladder, and the patient feels a frequent disposition to void it. Pain opposite to the frtenum, and a frequent disposition to void the urine, are symptoms attending stone ; and if there is much irritation, bloody urine will be voided ; indeed this is a constant concomitant, and a symptom you should particularly inquire for : it is not always present in the very young but in adults, and those who have been afflicted with stone for a long time, this symptom will be met with. VV'here persons who have stone cannot ride on horseback without being obliged frequently to dismount and void the urine—what you find is this, they go a short distance, then are obliged to stop and get off, and dis- charge their urine, which is bloody. If they ride in a carriage it is the same, they are obliged to stop and go out—and if they are in company of friends, and wish to conceal it from them, the desire to void the urine is so great, that they are obliged to sacrifice their natural delicacy of mind to the irresistible call of nature. The urine is not changed unless there is much irrita- tion in the bladder ; but if the stone has been of long standing, and there is disease in the bladder, there will be clots of blood in the urine. When the mucous membrane of the bladder is affected, the urine will be white, which will show that the bladder is diseased ; there will also be flakes of matter in it, and when this is the case, the patient is in a state that would be improper for an operation. There is a sudden arrest of the urine during the flow of a full stream, in consequence either of a valve formed in the urethra, or the stone resting against the neck of the bladder. The diagnostic symptoms of stone in the