53 ON SUPPURATION. live. The duct or canal leading from the inner angle of the eye, and which conveys the tears into the nose, is mucous, and, there- fore, when inflamed, usually suppurates ; consequently is only obstructed for a short period ; ' and even this obstruction can be relieved at intervals, by pressing the finger upon the skin imme- diatelv under the- corner of the eye, by the side of the nose, by which means the collected matter will be forced out at the puncta situated in the under eye-lid. Should the inflammation, how- ever, be of the adhesive kind, then an obstructipn will be formed that can only be relieved by an operation. This complaint is named fistula lachrymalis. The tears now pass over the cheek, and not into the nose, because adhesive matter has glued the side,s of the tube together. The operation for the cure of this is sim- ple, and will be explained to you hereafter. The membrane covering the internal surface of the trachea is mucous, and, therefore, when inflamed, usually suppurates ; but in croup large quantities of adhesive matter are thrown out, so as very frequently to occasion death. The coagulable matter adheres so firmly, that it cannot be disengaged by the ordinary eflfbrts of expectoration; at last, from its increase, it fills the trachea, and suffocation is of course the result. Nature has, as we before remarked, wisely ordained, that the various outlets of the body should commonly be liable to the suppurative inflam- mation ; and if this were not the case, life would be very much shortened indeed. Arteries and veins, when inflamed, generally pass into the ad- hesive inflammation. It occasionally happens, however, that their inner coats suppurate; and I have more than once known persons die from the irritation thus excited. Case.—A man in Guy’s Hospital had a leg removed. In a day or two he became delirious, and shortly after died. When ex- amined, no particular disease in his body was found , bui the suppurative process had been set up in the arteries, and this caused the fatal catastrophe. Similar events would follow the operations for aneurism, if the adhesive inflammation did not su- pervene instead of the suppurative ; for matter would form above the ligature, and, mixing with the blood, would destroy life. Suppurative inflammation of the veins has oflei been known to come on after bleeding, and occasion death. Upon dissection, in these cases, matter has been found in tho heart, mixed with the blood.