403 UNCTUIUNG THE BLADDER. py to find that his patient was relieved, and was about to go back, when he requested me to see his patient. I went into the room where I saw a very old gentleman, and upon asking how he felt, he told me that he was greatly relieved by the operation which had been performed. I asked the surgeon the cause of the re- tention of urine, for which he had punctured this gentleman’s bladder: and he replied an enlargement of the prostate gland. Indeed, said I, let me see whether I can pass a catheter into this gentleman’s bladder. I took a large catheter from my pocket, which I passed with the greatest ease. It was this and a great number of similar cases, which induced me to say that it was per- fectly unnecessary to puncture the bladder by the rectum, or in any other way, for an enlargement of the prostate gland. You may rely upon it, that any surgeon who punctures the bladder, under such circumstances, is a particularly clumsy fellow, [d laugh.^ [The learned profe^or proceeded to show the operation of puncturing the bladder by the rectum on the dead subject.] Of the Oferation of Punctuuing the Bladder THROCCH the PeRINEUM. This is so much like the operati ’n for stone that I need not dwell much upon it. It consists u ouncturing the bladder by the side of the prostate gland ; therv is no danger of injuring the peritoneum in this operation, LecaufB it does not reach the ante- rior part of the bladder. You make an incision in perinmo, as in the operation for stone, cutting down on the bulb of the penis, and drawing it to the patient’s right side. Y ou then carry the knife within the branch of the ischium till it reaches the prostate gland, which you push to the patient’s right side. Y’ou then carry the instrument obliquely upwards into the bladder, your finger resting on the prostate gland. (Sir Astley performed the operation on the dead subject.] There is no great difficulty in any of these operations, but let us now come to this question, whether the bladder should be punctured at all ? The last operation requires a greater share of anatomical knowledge than the others ; this is of course no ob- jection to it, for no man ought to operate on the human body who has not a perfect knowledge of anatomy. 'The objection to it is, that it generally produces a great deal of constitutional irri- tation, which we ought always, if possible, to avoid. 1 hold that we ought to avoid all these o|>erations, and tliat puncturing the 2 D 2