564 DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. you do by covering it with the oil-silk, to prevent evaporation. This, then, is the treatnrient of a phagedenic ulcer. Mr. Wel- bank, a surgeon, in Chancery-lane, has recommended the appli- cation of the nitric acid in an undiluted state, with the view of forming a new surface. This gentleman has tried it with advan- tage, at the same time preserving the constitution by restoring the secretions, and supporting the patient by a most nutritious diet. ,4ou should give bark and ammonia, in combination with the opium; and do all that you can to restore the secretions, for this ought to be the first principle of your treatment. Diseases of the Mouth and Throat. The venereal poison, when it passes the absorbent glands in the groin, goes into the system, but, in its course, affecLs no other glands but these; it is carried through the thoracic duct to the blood, and, when in the blood, it appears to affect but three parts of the body : 1st. The mucous membrane of the throat and nose. 2d. The skin, or surface of the body. 3d. The periosteum and bones. There three are the only parts liable to the syphilitic action after the venereal virus has entered the blood ; and, with respect to the organs essential to life, these are not capable of having a syphilitic action excited in them ; only in those parts of the body subjected to the influence of external causes, is the syphilitic action observed ; the intern al organs are entirely free from it; the brain, the viscera of the chest, and ab- domen, are never affected by it; even the mucous membrane of the interior of the body is not aft'ected by it. I will now describe to you the appearance and consequences of the diseases of the throat. When the syphilitic action is set up in the mouth, either the mucous membrane of the floor of the nose, or the roof of the mouth, becomes red and inflamed, and a pimple forms on it j when this opens, the bony palate is ex- posed, which may be easily felt by appl3'ing a probe to the part: this is the manner in which the disease first shews itself. The exposed bone exfoliates, a communication is set up through the mouth and nose, fluids return through it, and the voice becomes nasal. In this disastrous state the unhappy patient is unfitted for society ; with an aperture in the roof of the mouth, he has a discharge from it of a most offensive smell, to which the smell of the dissecting room is not to be compared ; for I can assure you that it is with difficulty that I can bear the breath of a person with disease of the mouth or nose ; but independently of tliis, he