ON niK treatment of internal piles. 457 was erceedin^ly ill, and the nejct morning when 1 went to see him, he told jne, as well as he could, that he was almost dead ; and that he had an evacuation of such a quantity of blood as -conld scarcely be believed ; on the following morning he died. Tlie last case with which I shall terminate- this sad catalogue, is that of the wife of a medical man in the country, who came to London with three piles. They were accompanied with some •irritation, and I only removed one of them. There was no he- morrhage, but three da5rs after she complained of a good deal of tenderness in the abdomen, and I was quite sure there was-peritoneal inflammation. The symptoms increased, and on that day week she died. On examination I found the peritoneum msch inflamed ; she had the appearance of one who had died of puerperal fever. I have felt it my duty to state to you the con- sequences of performing the operation of excision for internal piles, in order to impress on your minds that it is safer to treat such cases by a ligature than by excision. The application of a iigatore, however, is exceedingly painful, if it be drawn tightly ; it should only be applied so as to interrupt the circulation, and destroy the life of the part, without exciting much pain. Leave the ligature on the part, but if the pile be of considerable size, as the ligature is apt to slip, more especially if the peduncle be large, a straight needle, threaded with a double ligature, should be passed through the centre of the pile, and tied on each side. This will excite .little pa'm and prevent the ligature from slip- ping off; the time in which the ligature comes away is from five to six days. A patient will come to the hospital, have the liga- ture applied, and walk away after it is done ; it is most prudent, however, to remain for some time in the recumbent posture after the operation. This very morning a gentleman had the ligature applied, and thought so bttle of the operation that he would not go home to lie on his sofa, as I advised liim. It must not be concealed that even the application of a ligature has been known to destroy life. Mr. Cruikshanks applied a ligature to an elder- ly gentleman from the country : the ligature produced gangrene, which extended beyond it into the rectum and of this gangrene the patient died. Even this simple operation is not unattended with danger, if the patient neglects himself, lie should keep the recumbent posture, and remain as quiet as possible, so that the circulation may not be hurried, lioth excision and the ligature, therefore, will occasionally destroy life : but 1 am quite satisfied