610 ON VERTEBRAL DISEASES. and sometimes in part, absorbed ; occasionally, four, five, or more vertebra: are absorbed; there is a specimen in the college, in which four vertebra are wholly, and two are partially, absorbed. This absorption is the effect of pressure on the spinal canal. A curious change takes place, after a time, in the spinal canal, which is, that, instead of being smaller, k is larger opposite the part in which the vertebrae have given way. In cases where a cure has been effected, the spinal canal is larger opposite the part where the vertebrae have been absorbed, than it is above or below the diseased part. The mode in which the disease becomes cured, is by the upper portions of the verte- brae falling on the lower, and in this way anchylosing. This is not matter of conjecture; there are three specimens on the table, in which you will see the upper part of the spine bent forwards, so as to meet the lower vertebrae, and in this way producing anchylosis. This must be your object in the treatment of this disease. You should keep the spine of the child as much as pos- sible at rest; with this view the child should be kept as steadily as possible in the recumbent posture, so that the vertebra: may be suffered to fall into contact, and by coalescing efifect anchy- losis. If you attempt to keep the spine straight, you will defeat the object of nature; do not keep the patient in a directly straight line, but rather assist nature in producing the uni n of the vertebra:. Great attention should be paid to the general health of the child; it should have the best of nourishment, taking care to avoid any thing which may produce feverish ex- citement; likewise airings in a carriage, care being taken that the body should not be shaken. If the child cannot be kept at rest, if the parents are unable, or refuse to observe these in- structions, the next best treatment will be to apply one of Callow’s backs, which is worn upon the spine, and fixed round the pelvis and shoulders. As to avoiding deformity, that is out of the ((uestion ; in all these cases deformity is inevitable; what- ever you do, this cannot be prevented. 'Ihe words which now fall from my lips yon may recollect at some future period, when you may be called to a case of this kind; and I now tell you that I have never met with an example in which the spine, under these circumstances, has been e.xaclly restored to its natural state. All that you can do is to assist, or rather not to oppose, the process of nature, in producing anchylosis. Blisters, setons and issues, are commonly employed, but they frequently do more harm than good, by the i'lilal'.on which they e.xcite in the cou-