ON UETLNTXOX OF UUINE. 397 milk be put by for twenty-four hours its surface will be covered ■ with cream. After the milk has been evacuated, you should in- troduce into the opening made by tlie lancet, a sponge or cotton tent; this, in a short time, will e-xcite inflammation in the sides of the sac ; adhesive matter will be thrown out, which, gluing the parietes of the sac to each other, will be the means of gra- duallv obliterating the cavity, and thus produce a permanent cure. This treatment is effectual in relieving such cases ; it is the best that I am acquainted with, and I have seen it most decidedly successful in at least a dozen instances. LECTURE XLV. \ On Retention of Urine. It is not my intention to enter at any length into the causes which produce retention of urine ; for this part of the subject I shall leave until I describe to you the venereal disease, which I shall shortly have occasion to do. I shall at present merely state, that the most frequent causes of retention of urine, are stricture in the urethra, and enlargement of the prostate gland. 'J'hffre are several other causes, which give rise to this state : an accumulation of blood in the bladder; stones in the urethra, or the pressure of matter between the prostate gland and the rec- tum, will sometimes occasion a necessity for opening the bladder. In the female, the most frequent cause of retention of urine is, retroversion of the uterus. 1 have also seen a cancerous disease in the vagina, closing the meatus uiinarius, and rendering it ne- cessary to puncture the bladder. Before 1 speak more particu- larly of the means which surgeons recommend for relieving re- tention of urine by the knife, I will first shew you the method of in- troducing the catheter into the bladder. N o man should think of performing any operation by puncturing the bladder, or in any other way, without first endeavouring to relieve the patient by the introduction of the catheter. The form and size of the catheter are subject to some variation ; that which is used for stricture in the urethra differs materially from that which is required in cases of enlargement of the prostate gland. The prostiite ca-' theter, if I may so call it, should be two inches longer than the common catheter: and the curve is considerably greater than that of the catheter for strictures in the urethra. 'J'he latter is, indeed, generally too much curved; the curve should be, a«