OVERATIOK FOR POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 181 t«d lightly, and in a few hours removed ; the result of the operation was, that the pulsation was stopped for a short time, but in a few hours it returned, and the size of the aneurism began to increase. A consultation was held, and it was determined that a ligature should be applied in the usual way, and allowed to suppurate and ulcerate, and the patient did extremely well. In two other persons I tried this plan : one for an aneurism on the popliteal artery, the other for an aneurism on the radial artery, in the first case I used a fine thin ligature, and tied it very tight; in thirty hours I loosened it. Now, when this man was on the table, I said to myself that the operation was not founded on a right principle. I looked at the wound and saw that the adhesive process had commenced, and that in drawing the liga- ture out, I had destroyed all the adhesions which nature had set up: the pulsation had not ceased, and 1 pulled the ligature tight, and allowed it to remain forty-two hours longer, and then removed it; thus, after the lapse of seventy-two hours in the whole, it did not return. Thirteen days after this, as I was coming into the square of the other hospital, one of my dressers said that hemorrhage had come on from the man in Job’s ward, from whom the ligature had been removed, and that it was evidently arterial. I said that this was exceedingly curious. I went up, and found that it was the case ; a tourniquet was ap- plied; the hemorrhage did not return, and the patient did extremely well. If the ligature, after being on for seventy-two hours, does not produce adhesion, the uselessness of temporary ligatures does not admit of a doubt—they ought to be abandoned. In the aneurism of the radial artery, I removed the ligature twenty-four hours after it had been applied, but the pulsation returned ; I made an incision on the tumour, and applied a liga- ture above and below, and the aneurism was cured. It would be an extremely desirable thing if any person in- vented a ligature composed of materials which would admit of solution ; he would, by such an invention, greatly serve his profession. It has been said, that ligatures formed out of the untanned skins of kids will answer such a purpose ; that they will liccome absorbed; but they do not, I understand, succeed. I thought that a ligature made of catgut would admit of solution, and I tried it on a man of eighty years of age, on whom I per- formed the operation for popliteal aneurism : the catgut ligature was cut close to the vessel; the wound healed over, and no bail symptom followed. The experiment succeeded it is true, in this case.