571 SYPHIUTIC EUUrTIONS. five in the morning; or five grains at night, and five in the nrorning. The pilula,. subinuriatis hydrargyri composita, or Plummer’s pill, combined with the decoction of sarsaparilla, is sometimes employed for the cure of this venereal symptom. Five grains of Plummer’s pill may be given at night, and half a pint of the decoction drunk daily. The compound decoction of sar- saparilla will remove this symptom for a time, but the disease will re-appear, and ymu are never sure that the patient will not return with syphilitic symptoms. Even Plummer’s pill, united with the compound decoction of sarsaparilla, unless it be conti- nued for a very considerable time, cannot be depended upon. It should be given from six weeks at least to two months, to pre- vent a return of the disease. The eruptions will often yield in a very short time, but, unless you continue the medicine till the sy- philitic action is destroyed, the disease will return. A’olhing can be more absurd—nothing can show a greater ignorance of the true principle of treatment which should be followed in this dis- ease, than to suspend the use of the medicine, as soon as the symptoms disappear. Venereal eruptions sometimes shew an irritable disposition, as well as other symptoms of the disease from which the parts will be in danger of sloughing. Whenever this irritable disposition appears, suspend the use of mercury, and give the compound decoction of sarsaparilla alone, in con- siderable quantities. It will be better not to combine the decoc- tion with mercury in any form ; if you add any thing, let it be opium and nitric acid. The opium lessens irritability, and the nitric acid has sometimes a specific action on sores of this kind. Irritable eruptions are very often improved by the exhibition of nitric acid, which not only has a specific effect on them, but re- stores the general health of the patient. If the opium disagrees with the stomach of the patient it will defeat the object of re- storing his general health, and in that case should not be com- bined with the nitric acid. With respect to local treatment, the best application is mercurial ointment with opium ; an ounce of the ointment, with a drachm of the extract of opium. This, and the nitric acid lotion, diminish irritability better than any other application. The epitherna, composed of the liquor, plumbi sub- acetatis with the mel rosae, and tinclura opii, is often found to be useful. Carrot poultices, the .solution of the nitrate of silver, and a great variety of applications, are employed with the same view.