ON INI'LAMMATION 17 the fibrin of the blood, which, in coagulating, deposits serum in the surrounding cellular tissue. Infiammation has four terminations. First. Adhesim. This arises from the fibrin of the blood being effused into the cellular membrane, by which the parts be- come glued together. Second. Suppuration, or secretion of pus. This is composed of particles nearly similar to those of the blood, only differing in colour, swimming in a fluid resembling serum, and coagulating, as serum does, when exposed to the influence'of heat. Third. Absorption or ulceration. This arises from an increased action of the absorbents, produced by pressure united with in- fiammation, by which the parts are absorbed. Fourth. Gangrene, which consists in the destruction of the life of an inflamed part. The arteries, enfeebled by excessive action, are deprived of their vitality, the blood coagulates in them, and gangrene is produced. These are the constitutional effects; the local ones are simi- lar to those of irritation, which I mentioned to you in the last lecture. Inflammation produces different results in different parts. When seated in the skin, it usually becomes extensive, because the surface is unbroken. Its colour is very florid ; it separates the cuticle in the form of vesications, which usually contain serum, but also in some cases fibrin ; n serous effusion is also produced by it into the subjacent cellular tissue. In some in- stances it is preceded by fever, in others followed by it. In the cellular membrane, inflammation produces an effusion which ob- literates or fills its cells ; if it proceed, it occasions suppuration, *nd produces an abcess, the contents of which are frequently discharged by the process of ulceration. In debilitated irritable constitutions inflammation destroys the cellular tissue, and pro- duces carbuncle, which is a sloughy abscess in the cellular tissue. W hen chronic, it occasions tumours of various kinds, as the steatomatous or adipose ; or, under peculiar circumstances, those of a malignant nature, as the scirrhous, fungous, &c. Inflammation of fascite is generally extensive, from the large surfaces they present; they are often seen inflamed in com- pound fracture, producing redness of the skin to a considerable distance, and it is a very unfavourable sign in this accident. O