56 ON SUPPURATION. serum; there may be, also, a little coagulable matter in the serum ; this, however, is hypothesis; that fibrin is poured out from the vessels in adhesive inflammation is not hypothesis, but, on the contrary, a well ascertained fact. The globules of pus are the same as' the globules of the blood, but the action of the vessels appears to take away their colour; their form is the same; size the same : these globules also resemble those that are contained in mucus. Pus, when healthy, is a bland fluid, and will not irritate the parts that produce it. If poured into water, it sinks, because its specific gravity is greater than that of water. It appears to be composed of the constituent parts of the blood, slightly changed in their character by inflammation. Healthy pus, I say, does not irritate parts; but surgeons formerly thought otherwise, and therefore used to cover the surfaces of wounds with sponge, for the purpose of sucking up the matter as fast as it was generated. "When, however, pus is unhealthy, having mixed with it too large a portion of serum, or when bloody, then in passing over the skin it will irritate and occasion excoriation. This matter does not appear prone to putrefaction in the healthy constitution, but in some persons it will, in a very short time, become inconceivably putrid and fetid. Case.—A butcher, when getting out of a hay-loft, missed his footing, and in trjdng to save himself from a fall, had the misfortune to hitch his hand upon a hook, upon which the poor fellow hung like one of his own sheep. Eight days after the accident, he was brought to Guy’s Hospital; the next day his hand was opened, and the matter dischargeJ was most horribly offensive ; on the following day he died. Whenever the matter of an abscess becomes offensive,. you should regard it as a bad symptom ;—such cases are troublesome, and often terminate fatally. When matter of a poisonous kind, the result of a specific inflammation, is applied to the surface of the body, it irritates, occasions inflammation and suppuration, and this newly formed matter is of exactly the same description as that which produced it; at least the poisonous quality is retained undiminished in virulence. This is illustrated by the discharge of gonorrhoea, chancre, small-pox, &c. Te enumerate all the instances would fatigue you.