ON THE CURE OF ANEURISM. 175 at this tnoraent occur to me, in passing through this metropolis on his way to Paris, showed me a preparation from a case of spontaneous cure of aneurism, in which the aorta was obliterated at the loms. As the spontaneous cure of this disease, however, cannot be so far depended upon as to prevent us from performing the ope- ration in all situations where the artery is accessible, I shall pro- ceed to describe to you the mode of performing the operation in the diderent parts of the body, confining myself in this evening’s lecture, to the operation on the femoral artery. As we are occa- sionally under the necessity of performing the operation as it used to be done thirty-five or forty years ago, I shall, in the first place, say a few words on the old operation. The operation for popliteal aneurism used to be performed in the following manner : A tourniquet was placed on the limb, and the patient laid on his face. An incision was then made in the ham, to the extent of the aneurism, and the adhesive matter and coagulated blood removed from the excavation thus made. The aneurismal bag was then wiped out with a sponge, and the tourniquet was slightly loosened, in order to mark the orifice of the artery. The surgeon stood ready with a probe in his hand, and as soon as he saw the blood issue from t^e upper orifice, he passed it into the artery, and then separating that portion of the artery from the remaining parts, put a ligature upon it. When he had done this, he again loosened the tourniquet, and as soon as he saw what appeared to bo venous blood spring from the lower portion of the artery (for the blood from the upper portion of the artery is florid, as arterial blood usually is, but in the lower portion it has the appearance of venous blood), he introduced the probe into the orifice and put a liga- ture on the artery as before. An operation like this which ex- posed a very considerable surface, where the artery in the vi- cinity of the aneurism was diseased, and by which the bones were frequently injured, from the ulcerative process taking place, necessarily led very frequently to fatal results : so frequently, indeed, that it was a disputed point among the profession whether it was better to amputate in cases of popbteal aneurism, or to per- form this opieration. A man who had recovered after the old ope- ration for popliteal aneurism could, formerly, get money by show- ing himself at the hospitals; at present it would not be worth a man’s while to beg in this way. It is to Mr. John Hunter that vre arc indebted for the great iinproveraenl which has taken place