451 ON THE DIFFERENT AMPUTATIONS. I have never known a patient die from tlie operation of amputa- tion at the shoulder joint ; but 1 liave heard of cases in which the patient has died from hemorrhage caused by sloughing of the artery some days alter the amputation. Amputation at the Hip Joint. This operation has been several times performed, and in several instances with success. I recollect the time when this operation was a little criticised by surgeons, and I remember the following story being told of i\Ir. Bromfield, who performed it. Mr. Brom- field was attending a nobleman, who observed that his hands were a little bloody ; this led to some conversation about our profession, and Mr. Bromfield said he had just been amputating a man’s thigh at the hip joint. “ Good God ! Mr. Bromfield [exclaimed the nobleman], how can you talk of such horrible things I” Three or four days after, the nobleman inquired about the patient who had undergone this operation, and Mr. Bromfield replied, that he had lived forty hours after it, “ And was that all (said the nobleman), after putting the man to such dreadful agony?” The amputation at the hip joint, however, gentlemen, has been so often performed with success, that it may now be considered as one of the established operations of surgery. Mr. Brownley, a military surgeon, first performed it during the late war ; he did it without putting any ligature on the artery in the first instance ; it was only compressed. Mr. Guthrie has also performed this operation with success during the late war. He also performed the amputation through the trochan- ter major without securing the artery in the first instance; I compressed the artery myself in that case. The amputation at the hip joint has been performed in the same way successfully by M. Larrey, and many other surgeons ; but notwithstanding the great respect I entertain for these authorities, I am disposed to think that the operation cannot be safely performed without securing the artery in the first instance. When you do not se- cure the artery in the first instance, what is likely to happen is thU : when you have to divide the femoral artery as near to Poupart’s ligament as possible, and put a ligature upon it, the man becomes so faint under the operation that he will be unable to support it. I have, in such a case, been obliged to suspend it, to give the patient wine, and chat with him, in order to rouse the vigour both of his body and mind. The operation will certainly be most safely performed by tying, in the first instance, the fe- 2 ci 2