ON INFLAMMATORY STRICTURE- 519 body in cold water caused him to expel the contents of his blad- der, recommended his patient to jump into a cistern of cold, water that was standing in the yard of his house. He did so, and the experiment completely succeeded ; there was perfect retention before the immersion, but after it the urine was expelled with the utmost facility. There are some very anomalous cases of spasmodic stricture. Mr. Western, a surgeon, was in a chemist’s shop, into which a man came, and asked for half a pint of lime water; this he im- mediately drank. Upon being questioned as to what he took it for, he said it was to relieve a retention of urine produced by stricture. The lime-water relieved him, for, immediately after taking it, he passed his urine. Owing to constitutional pecu- liarities, medicines that .will be successful with one patient, will fail in another. You must, therefore, have recourse to all until the object be gained. iNFLAMMaXORY STRICTURE. This is equally quick in its approach with the common spas- modic, but unlike it in being accompanied with excessive pain. A man wiU consult you with this complaint and will tell you he has the most inordinate desire to make water, but cannot. After having prescribed for him, and he has left your house, he will return again in a few minutes, and say that he is in the most excruciating pain, and cannot bear it any longer; this kind of stricture is generally produced by the inflammation of gonorrhoea, but there is another mode by which it is caused, and that is the introduction of a bougie ; for the passing of these, although done with care, will sometimes give rise to a violent inflammation of the urethra. Treatment.—When a person comes to you having retention of urine, with dreadful pain in the urethra, you should immediately take blood from the arm, in such quantity as to produce syncope, administer purgatives, apply leeches to the perinmum, and put the patient into a warm bath ; you will also, in this complaint, find antimony and opium in a state of combination particularly serviceable. It is highly improper to introduce either a bougie or catheter, while the urethra is in the inflamed state just de- scribed ; if used with judgment and decision, the means I have stated will be suflScient to procure relief. There sometimes exists an