ON THE DIFTERENT AMPUTATIONS. 44T adhesive process, as much as that of the leg; but in applying the strap of adhesive plaister, remember that if matter should form, it will gravitate, and at the lowest part of the stump, where the ligatures are hanging, you should leave a small aperture to per- mit its escape. [The learned lecturer performed each operation upon the dead subject in the different modes described in the course of the lecture.] '* LECTURE L. 4 Amputation op the Hand at the Wnisf Joint. This operation is not unfrequently required, in consequence of extensive laceration of the metacarpus. Before shewing you this operation, however, let me observe, that if any one of the fingers or the thumb remain, it is better not to amputate the hand, as a single finger is often e.vceedingly useful after injuries of this kind. A bov in the other hospital recently lost his thumb and three of his fingers by an accident, butthe fore finger remained uninjured : I amputated the other part of the hand, leaving the fore finger, and you would scarcely believe how useful he found this finger. It is a curious circumstance, that it increased to a size very con- siderably larger than that which the finger of a boy usually ac- quires ; you will see, from the cast which has been taken of it, that it is quite as large as an adult’s. He used this remaining finger in grasping and lifting bodies with singular dexterity. If the second and third fingers be injured, their retrioval will leave the patient a portion of the hand almost as useful as before. I was called to a man at Vauxhall, who in shooting, had a portion of the middle and ring fingers carried away. I took out both the metacarpal bones, and the remaining part of his hand was ex- tremely useful to him. Be notin haste, therefore, in such cases, to remove the whole of the hand. In performing the operation at the wrist, you are first to feel for the styloid process of the radius ; it is better to make a semi- circular incision on the back of the wrist, and a similar incision on the under side, so as to reach the styloid process of the radius, instead of making at once a circular incision. (It is of import, ance that sufficient integuments should be left to cover the jhint completely; then depress the hand a little, and cut through the