505 ON VIRULENT GONORIUKEA, annually brought into the port of London. I do not say that it would be advisable to employ this remedy at once for a first gonorrhoea, where the symptoms of inflammation ran veiy high in a young and irritable person ; it is better not to begin with the use of it until a week or ten days have elapsed, and the inflam- mation is considerably reduced. I will now tell you how I first learnt the value of this remedy : a gentleman from .Java, who had lived for some time in Batavia, entered my room, and, un- buttoning his clothes, immediately shewed me the part about which his mind was uneasy, and asked me whether a sore upon it was venereal 1 I said, certainly not. He said he was glad to hear it, for, if it had been a chancre, he should have supposed that it had been produced by his curing a gonorrhoea very suddenly. He was running away very hastily, when I requested him to tell me how he had cured this gonorrhoea so suddenly. “ Why, (he said), by cubebs.” “ Cubebs 1 (said I), what is that ?” for 1 had really at that tim^ never heard of such a thing. “ Why, (said he), it is a species of Java pepper, and, if you like, I will send you a bottle of it.” I said I should be obliged to him. He accordingly sent me a small bottle of it, which I put into my desk, where it remained, without my think- ing any more of the circumstance. Two or three months after, he came to me again, and said that having a severe gonorrhoea, he should be obliged to me, if I had any of the cubebs left, to let him have a little of it. This was on a Thursday : I gave him the bottle, and after examining this gonorrhoea, which was very severe, I requested him to let me see him on the following Monday. He came to me on that day, and the discharge was quite gone. This excited my attention, and I began to think that it must be a medicine of great power. Very soon after, a gentleman came to me, and said that as he was going to give a very large dinner party, and should be obliged to olrink a great deal of wine, he wished to be cured of a clap immediately. I told him I could not promise to do any such thing, but, if he Irked, I would give him a remedy, which a gentleman from Java had used with great success : and I then related to him the circumstance which I have just mentioned. The gentleman said he would try it, and he should prefer it to to the balsam of capivi; of which the people in his house knew the smell. (A laurh.) lie began taking two drachms three times a-dny on a Tuesday, and on Wednesday week after, the discharge not hav-