586 ON SYPHILIS AND THE USE OK MERCURY. to him again in February, telling him that it appeared again, and on asking the surgeon what he was to do, the surgeon replied. You must take sarsaparilla.” He repeated his visit in March, stating that, although his sore had vanished for a time, yet it had again appeared in the same situation. “ Well,” said the surgeon, “ you must take sarsaparilla.” In June the patient repeated his visit, having, at the time, a venereal sore throat, together with a copper-coloured eruption on the skin, and he said to the doctor, “ What am I to do now?” “ Take sarsaparilla:” the use of which caused the disappearance of the secondary symptoms ; but, in the following August, violent inflammation made its appear- ance in both eyes, so that the gentleman was obliged to be kept in a dark room, to be bled, purged, and kept on the lowest possi- ble diet; and, notwithstanding all these precautions, the viru- lence of the inflammation endangered the loss of his sight; at length the inflammation of the eyes having been subdued, in the ensuing September, a venereal eruption again made its appear- ance on the skin; there were also pains in the bones, and a sore throat The gentleman again visited his doctor, and inquired once more what he must do to rid himself of his horrible com- plaints. “ Why,” says the doctor very gravely, “ you must take sarsaparilla!” and, replied the gentleman, “ I’ll be d d if I do (excessive laughter'), but I will take advice,” and shortly afterwards he consulted me. At the time I saw him, he had se- vere pains in the limbs and joints, venereal eruptions on the skin, and an ulcerated throat. He asked me what was his disease, and I at once told him, confirmed syphilis; he then detailed to me the history I have just mentioned to you. " Well, sir,” said I, “ adhere to to the old Hutch motto, ‘ do right and never look back,’ and give yourself no uneasiness about the past, as what has happened cannot be prevented.” I prescribed for him ten grains of blue pill night and morning, and a quarter of a grain of opium to each pill. About ten or eleven weeks afterwards, he called upon me, and his appearance had undergone so great a change, that I had entirely forgotten him; he soon, however, informed ini>, who he was, and he stated that he was completely restored to health. I mention this case to you, to show you both the folly and the danger of treating the secondary symptoms of syphilis with any other remedy than mercury ; and also to point out to you t!ie dangerous consequences of being prcjudicetl in favour of a remedy; whicli prejudice the repealed failure of the remedy