OPERATION OF I.tTHOTOMY. 360 panied with enlargement of the prostate gland, generally termi- nate unfavourably, I do not mean to be understood that the en- larged prostate necessarily leads to the destruction of life, but the patient very rarely recovers his health perfectly afterwaras, 80 as to be free from the symptoms of the disease. Patients under these circumstances generally suffer very much from the enlarge- ment of the prostate after the stone is removed. I remember a curious case of a French gentleman who was operated upon for stone by Mr. Cline, senior. Mr. Cline happened to take out his watch, and to make some indifferent observation ; the patient, however thought he said that it was dinner-time. He recovered from the operation, but as he still suffered occaisionally from symptoms of stone, instead of being grateful for having been re- lieved by the operation, he used constantly to say that Mr. Cline was in a hurry for his dinner when he performed the operation, and had left a stone in his bladder. This gentleman died some time after, and left five guineas to myself, or any other surgeon, except Mr. Cline, to examine his bladder after death, for the purpose of ascertaining whether a stone had not been left there. I happened to be out of town at the time, but Mr. Ramsden, who was then surgeon at St, Bartholomew’s Hospital, on examining the body, found that the stone had been completely removed, but that the gorget on entering the bladder had nearly separated a small portion of the prostate gland, so that a little valve was formed on the inner side of the bladder, which fell occasionally over the beginning of the urethra, when the patient attempted to make water, when this happened, he was under the necessity of remitting the attempt to discharge his urine, and suffered great pain. I shall send round the preparation, in which you will see the portion of the prostate nearly separated by the gorget. It not unfrequently happens that a cyst is formed in the bladder, in which the stone is either partially or entirely con- tained. If the cyst includes the stone entirely, the symptoms of stone cease. It happened very fortunately for the person who ob- tained the reward from parliameix;, for discovering a medicine capable of dissolving stone in the bladder, that he gave his medi- cine to a person in whose bladder a cyst of this kind formed. It was fully established that a stone had been distinctly felt by some of the most eminent surgeons in the metropolis, before this person took the medicine; and after he had taken the medicine for some time, the stone could no longer be On examination of the