SCROFULOUS GLANDS OF THE NECK. 599 suffbcatioD. But it generally happens, that when these cases termi- nate fatally, there is also present considerable disease of the lungs and bronchial glands. If I were asked why the absorbent glands of the neck are more frequently affected with scrofulous disease than the other glands, I should answer, that it was owiuJ to their being so much ex- posed, and, consequently, so much jfluenced by the changes of weather and seasons. A child expoesd to the cold, with the ears half frozen, the cheeks and head also cold, is suddenly brought into a place of excessive heat, which produces a slight degree of in- flammation in the parts; that irritation also produces inflamma- tion of the absorbents ; and thus the reason why the glands of the neck are so frequently enlarged. Scrofulous enlargements of the glands of the neck is more frequent than those of the axilla ; and enlargement of those in the axilla more common than of the glands of the groin; because the lower parts are better protected from atmospheric changes. But it sometimes happens that a peculiar secretion takes place in the glands, and that earthy matter is diffused in it. It is not at all an uncommon occurrence for a substance like chalk, and composed of carbonate of lime, to be deposited in an enlarged gland. Here is a specimen (ex- hibiting it to the class) of earthy matter that was deposited in a gland; I removed it after death. These deposits are usually composed of carbonate of lime. Treatment of enlarged Absorbent Glands of the Neck.—When a child, with a scrofulous enlargement of an absorbent gland of the neck, is brought to you for advice, you will treat it, if the com- plaint be of recent occurrence, like a case of common inflamma- tion. You will give rhubarb and calomel internally, and recom- mend evaporating lotions as local applications. The best lotion you can use is the liquor plumbi superacetatis, with spirits of wine and water. In this way the inflammation will be gradually subrlued. But these glands are apt sometimes, notwithstanding all the means you employ, and all the care that may be taken of the child, to go into the suppurative stage. In this case you must give the rhubarb and carbonate of soda twice a-day, together with a small quantity of the hydrargyrug cum creli (one grain) three or four times in the twenty-four hours. You must next consider what local treatment to employ if the gland suppurates. When you find that there is a disposition to suppurate, evapo- rating lotions will not succeed, and therefore must be discon- tinued. You should feel if there be any fluctuation; for the