619 ON DISLOCATIONS. tended with great danger from the inflammation of the lacerated ligament and synovial membrane, which speedily succeeds; this is soon followed by suppuration, and granulations arise from the surface of the secreting membrane. But I should say that it was a very serious injury, or otherwise, according to the treatment which it receives. It was the practice formerly to poultice, but this is now laid aside, as it produced a train of bad symptoms, and seldom terminated favourably. After reducing the disloca- tion, bring the integuments closely together by adhesive plasters, and let the joint remain undistuibed for several days, and it is probable that adhesion will take place. If there should be great difficulty in reducing the dislocation, as, for example, in the ankle, it is better to saw of the protruded portion of bone, especially when there is great spasmodic action of the muscles; the bone afterward granulates, and, if passive motion be used in proper time, a very useful joint may be restored. The elbow is not likely to do so well in this case as the ankle; but I shall say more on this subject when I am speaking of the particular dislocations. The difficulty in reducing a dislocation is in proportion to the time which has been allowed to elapse after the accident. In recent cases, it is easily effected, but if it has happened a few days, or at most a few weeks, it is reduced with great difficulty. Still, however, difficulties arise from other causes, which I shall presently mention. If the muscular power be very great, the exertion necessary to reduce the dislocation must be very great also. In such a person the reduction of the humerus should never be attempted after three months; but, if the patient be less muscular, four months should be the utmost limit. In the dis- location of the thigh, two months may be fixed on as the time, beyond which it would be wrong to make any attempt, except in a person of very relaxed fibre, when a little more time may be allowed. In those cases where it has been said the dislocations have been reduced a long time after the accident, the patient has never been able to use the jointextcnsively. Difficulties likewise arise from the head of the bone catching against the articulating cavity, as in the dislocation of the thigh bone into the foramen ovale, and ischiatic notch, where it is necessary to raise the head jefore it can be returned, or where the heatl of the bone is larger tian its cervix, as in dislocations of the radius, it was thought mat the opening in the capsular ligament was too small, and therefore impeded the return of the bone; but such persons must