105 ON GANGRENE. able size separate without in the slightest degree endangering the life of the patient. There is an instance of this at the present time, in the other hospital, in a case of popliteal aneurism, which will afford you an opportunity of judging of this process of se- paration for yourselves. The first appearance which we observe after the destruction of the life of any part is a white line, which nature forms for the separation of the dead from the living parts. For this white line we anxiously look, since it is the barrier which nature sets up between the dead and the living parts, and it becomes a criterion of the cessation of the gangrenous disposition. At this white line the cuticle is raised. Tliis ele- vation of the cuticle is a vesication, which forms a line of cir- cumvallation around the gangrene. When the cuticle becomes separated, as it will in two or three days, we find a chasm beneath it, produced by the absorption of the living skin in con- tact with the dead. The living skin is taken up by the absorbent vessels into the constitution, and in this manner the living parts are separated from the dead by a process of nature. If we were to reason d priori on this subject, it might be expected that the absorbent vessels would rather remove the dead portion of skin in contact with the living: but this is not the case. The ab- sorbent vessels act on the living parts, but not on the dead : nor is the dead skin absorbed after the time when granulations have formed, but it becomes loose, and ceases to attach to the surround- ing parts ; the chasm formed by the absorbent vessels affording an opportunity for the separation. The next part which begins to separate is the cellular tissue immediately under the skin. Gangrene proceeds to much greater extent in the cellular tissue than in the surrounding skin, be- cause the cellular membrane is a part of weaker living powers. It is for this reason that a sloughing disposition in sores extending to the cellular membrane b so dangerous. A small chancre be- ginning in the pudendum of the female, and sometimes in the pe- nis, will frequently occasion destruction of life in the part. Some persons have absurdly supposed that these sloughing sores are not chancres, l>ecause they have not the common venereal character. But how does this happen 1 If a chancre forms in the pudendum of an irritable female, and has a sloughing disposition, it extends into the cellular tissue, inflames to a high degree, and produces gangrene. In thb manner the character of the clmncre becomes destroyed, 'i'here b at thb time an unfortunate female, in the