218 ON HERNIA. mto the abdomen there is a gurgling noise, from the air and fluid which it contains. When there is omentum in the sac,thesensation communicated to the finger is different; omentum is less easily distended, more solid. Some surgeons have said, “ Oh ! a hernia will be known to contain omentum by its doughy feel and want of elasticity this may be said in the closet, but will not do at the bedside of the patient. Here I must remark, that 1 have seen some of the best surgeons deceived in this point, and that when the contents of the hernial sac have been said to be intestine, they have been omentum: and when omentum they have been intestine; there is not a surgeon of any experience but will allow with me, that there is considerable difficulty in knowing whether there is omentum or intestine in the hernial sac. In opera- ting for hernia always do it under impression that intestine is contained in the hernia, and not omentum, because you will be more on your guard; therefore make this an invari- able rule. Dmgnoiis.—In distinguishing hernia from some other com- plaints there is considerable difficulty.—1st, Hernia is sometimes likely to be confounded with hydrocele : an instance of this kind I mentioned to you in another lecture ; in this case, had I intro- duced a trocar, I should have wounded the intestine, and the destruction of life would have been the consequence. A gentle- man very recently told me of a case where hernia was mistaken for hydrocele, and the patient died in consequence, the intestine being wounded by the trocar that was introduced. The sur- geon who told me this had none of those malevolent feelings which actuate too many of our profession ; it was stated in such a manner that it could be neither injurious to the individual who did it, nor to any other person; it is a circumstance that every one ought to deplore. Another reason why you should be on your guard is, that both a hernia and hydrocele may be present at the same time; the hydrocele on the fore part, and the hernia behind. Much to the credit of two surgeons who operated where both hydrocele and hernia were present, they performed the operation safely; the one case fell under the care of Mr. Thomas Blizard, who is an excellent anatomist, but has lately relinquished his profes- sion ; of this I am exceedingly sorry, for I think that a man has two duties to perform, one to himself, and another to the public • and if a man has opportunities of acquiring information he should