320 ON FUNGUS lIAiMATODES OF THE EYE. recommended by Blr. Gibson, and is certainly tlie best when the case admitted of it. Mr. Gibson’s mode of performing it is to make an incision with a knife, as near as possible to the iris, and then making gentle pressure on the globe of the eye, so as to protrude the iris, to snip off a portion of ii with a pair of scis- sors. If the iris was adherent, so that it could not be protruded, he hooked it forward with a little hook, and then snipped away a portion with the scissors. The operation of separating a part of the iris from its attachment to the ciliary ligament may be performed with Scarpa’s needle. The needle should be intro- duced on the outer side through the cornea, at the distance of two lines from its junction with the sclerotica, and carried across the anterior chamber parallel to the plane of the iris. The point is then to be directed through the iris, towards the inner side, and then carrying it backwards and outwards, the iris is to be detached from the ciliary ligament. The excision of a portion of the iris is the preferable operation, but where the case does not admit of it, the detachment of the iris from the ciliary ligament is the next best operation. It is impossible to lay do.vn general rules for these operations in a lecture, for the cases are so infi- nitely varied that much must, after all, be left to the discretion of the surgeon, who should adapt the nature of the operation to the circumstances of each particular case. LECTURE XX XVII. On Fungi's H*matodes opihe Eye. The first disease to which I shall call your attention Is the fungus h»matodes of the eye, malignant fungus, or, as it is called by some, medullary sarcoma, a disease which soon proves fatal unless an operation be early performed, and even then the chance of success is extremely doubtful. No age appears exempt from tills complaint, but it more frequently attacks the young ; and a large proportion of the cases occurs before twelve years of age. Symptoms of Fungus H^matodes of the Eye. The first circumstance which attracts the notice of the patient is the vision becoming impaired On looking into the eye at the commencement of this complaint, you see opposite to the pupil, and deeply seated, an appearance like a mirror, resembling an