OPERATION OF LITHOTOMY. 854 ment tlie disposition to hemorrliage. Do not apply ligatures to the vessels on account of these bleedings, as they often, under such circumstances, give rise to sloughings ; you should not quit the patient until the flow of blood has ceased. If, therefore, you treat these bleedings properly in t-he manner now de- scribed to you, they will not be attended with danger to life from loss of blood, as the hemorrhage can be easily checked by keeping the body cool, and by introducing into the wound a quantity of lint or sponge. Well, the gorget having been pushed into the bladder, the next step will be to pass in the forceps: in doing this remem- ber what I told you a few minutes since respecting the re- sistance of the prostate and the occasional escape of the gorget from the bladder before the forceps are in its cavity. Before withdrawing the gorget you should strike the stone with the forceps, which act will dispel all doubt as to their not having entered the bladder. Forceps,—I'lie ordinary lithotomy forceps have their bend, or joint, two-thirds of their way forward. If the stone should break, you are then to use fiat forceps. If it be a soft stone, or a number of small ones, you may employ the scoop or crotchet. Having passed in this last instrument, and carried its point a little beyond the stone, you then pass in your finger to the farthest extremity of the instrument; the stone is then lodged between the point of the crotchet and your finger, in the same v/ay as it would have been between the blades of the forceps, had they been used. Well, so much for the operation of lithotomy, as performed with the gorget. Now then for that by the knife. I do not like this instrument for the operation so well as I do the gorget, and I shall presently tell you why. Another instrument for dividing the prostate and bladder has of late been used with success, in the lateral operation of litho- tomy, it is called the bistourie cachee ; it was invented by Cosine, a French surgeon, about one hundred years since ; it consists of a knife, enclosed in a sheath, which, after being introduced into the bladder, and, turned with its edge downwards and outwards, cuts its way out when withdrawn. I was myself for some years in the habit of using a straight scalpel, the same kind of instrument as you have lately seen Mr. Tyriell operate with in this hospital. Mr. Ihomaa Bbiard