ENLARGEMENT OF THE TONSILS. 466 binated bone: the forceps must not be applied in such cases; such a practice would be exceedingly improper. What you are to do is this : Touch them by means of a small bougie, formed of nitrate of silver ; from this application, they will in a short time turn white, and very soon disappear altogether. You may rely upon it, that this is the only treatment required in such affections, and there is no necessity for submitting these pooi little delicate creatures to any other operation. The next subject for our consideration is Enlargement of the Tonsils. Children will be brought to you with swellings in their throats, and it will be stated that they have great diCGculty of breathing, sleep with their mouths widely distended, the skin at the same time being covered by a profuse perspiration. Upon feeling the throat, looking into the mouth, or passing back the finger, it will readily be ascertained that one or both tonsil glands is enlarged. The complaint is generally the result of one of the diseases common to children, as the smallpox or measles, and the inflammation which produced it of the sciofo- lous kind. Sometimes the enlarged part is attached to the gland by a distant small peduncle ; at other times the base of the swelling is of considerable size. Constitutional Treatment of Enlarged Tonsil Glands. To prevent the growth of these enlargements, and their for- mation altogether, the best medicine that can be given, for the accomplishment of these purposes, is the oxymuriateof mercury ; and it will be found highly advantageous to combine it with the tinctures of bark and rhubarb. I usually prescribe it thus : f^. Oxymur. Hydrarg. gr j. Tinct. Cinchoti. Rhei, aa. ยง j. M. I order a tea-spoonful to be taken in a little white wine, tw'ce or three times a-day, according to the age or peculiar state of the patient. Having already on several occasions explained to you the manner in which small doses of mercury act on the system in chronic inflammation, by restoring the secretions, it cannot be necessary for me to again dilate upon that subject. By uniting the mercury, as above, with bark and rhubarb, you will improve the appetite, strengthen the stomach and bowels, and gradually re- store the vigour of the constitution. It is not of any great conso-