24 ON INFLAMMATION. nature than in those who are not irritable. Tims in fevers, wheL the constitution has been much weakened, the parts on which the body has been resting become inflamed, and quickly mortify. But in fractures, where the system is healthy and strong, al- though the patient remain many weeks in bed, no such effects are produced. Where there is great irritation, inflammation is always dangerous; and the application of a blister to the chest, for the removal of a cough after measles, frequently in this town, destroys it by bringing on mortification. Mercury, in like manner, by rendering the body irritable, disposes it to inflammation ; and it is wrong to operate on a patient immediately after a mercurial course, on account of this inflammatory tendency. The exciting causes of inflammation are whatever produces an unnatural state of the part, calling upon nature for its reparation, which she effects by the process of inflammation, as bruises, warts, pressure, extraneous substances, &c. &c. The manner in which nature repairs these injuries will be more fully explained hereafter. Proximate Causes of Inflammation.—With regard to these there has been, and still is, much difference of opinion. Boerhaave’s opinion, of an obstruction in the smaller vessels, arising from the thickness of the blood, is false—for, instead of being thicker, it is absolutely thinner. Cullen’s theory, of spasm in the extreme vessels, is equally erroneous. These are the results of opinion not founded upon observation. We should observe first, and think afterwards. The true proximate causes of inflammation ap- pear to be an increase of action in the vessels of the part, and an increase in the size of the vessels themselves. These phenomena are well demonstrated by the following experiment; viz.. Stretch the web of a frog’s foot, and place it under a good microscope, and put on it the smallest drop of nitric acid, or prick a spot with a pin : you will soon perceive in the vicinity of the irritated part considerable agitation, and presently a red particle of blood will make its appearance in a vessel that had previously been the re- ceptacle of transparent serum only—each pulsation pushing it on farther and farther. This red particle distends the vessel, and is succeeded by others passing freely into the vein. All the vessels of the part then take on similar actions ; and thus you create un- der your eye, speaking figuratively, meandering rivulets of blood. The ddatation of the vessels in inflammation is not, however, con- fined to the part itself, but is also observable in the larger arteries