257 ON HERNIA, In this hernia, it is to be recollected that the stricture is, in almost all cases, at a very considerable distance above the abdo- minal ring,. I am not aware that I have any other observations to make on this disease, as it occurs in the female, and I shall proceed therefore to the consideration of Congenital HEnNiA. This, as you are aware, is usually hernia of the tunica vagi- nalis testis, but it does not always happen that hernia of the tunica vaginalis is congenital; it sometimes appears in the adult. The way in which it takes place may be thus explained :—The tunica vaginalis is open to the abdomen a little prior to birth, so that a portion of intestine is very readily admitted into this part. It scarcely ever happens in the young subject that any thing but intestine is contained in hernia of the tunica vaginalis, the omentum not reaching so low as the orifice. If the tunica vaginalis is not closed immediately after the birth of the child, a hernia will make its appearance. The appearance of this hernia is well known to nurses; they make a distinction between what they call a watery and a windy rupture. Now what they call a watery rupture is hydrocele, which not uncommonly takes place ■ in very young children; and what they term a windy rupture, is hernia congenita. The former is quite transparent, and, if not congenital, is capable of being returned into the cavity of the abdomen ; the latter may be relumed into the abdomen, and in so doing you will hear a gurgling noise. It sometimes happens that the tunica vaginalis, though not closed, will not admit of the descent of a portion of intestine, because the orifice is extremely small, and the person will arrive at the age of from twenty to thirty years before the hernia appears. The descent of a small convolution of intestine is then generally the effect either of re- laxation or of some sudden or disproportioned exertion. There is a specimen in the collection of a tunica vaginalis open in the adult; the opening is sufficient to admit a large bougie, but it does not appear that the person from whom it was taken ever had hernia. When you meet with a case of hernia of the tunica vaginalis in the adult, and you ask him how long he has had hernia, he will tell you for a very short time—from a week or ten days to tw< or tkieji months, but that he is perfectly sure he sever had it when a child. When intestine or omentum has descended into the tunica Mginalis, reaching to the lower part of tl.e scrotum, the testicle