444' ON THE DIFfERENT AMPUTATIONS. ingly false and injurious surgical principle ; if you save muscle as well as integument, retraction will take place, and the stump, consequently will not heal near so kindly as it would have done provided you had only preseiwed integument. Now, gentlemen, in holding the amputating knife do not grasp it thus, with the entire hand, but take it rather between the finger and thumb, so t!;at the haft may freely play in the hollow of the hand, and at the same time pass between the finger and thumb when the circular incision is made: by adopting this method, you may make your first cut in an easy and free manner, and obviate that stiffness which is sometimes observable even in expe- rienced operators. I now hold the knife in the manner described, and thus divide the integuments; they have two places of adhesion, viz., over the tibia, and over the fibula. Having separated these and likewise the connecting cellular membrane, the skin is now loosened to the extent of two inches, which quantity will be quite sufficient to cover the stump. In amputating, I generally use but one knife, so that I shall divide the muscles, interosseal ligament, and periosteum, with the same instrument; I therefore commonly use, in amputating the leg or arm, the catling only. Take care to divide the muscles extremely well, so as to prevent any of the fibres being torn by the teeth of the saw ; for they not only im- pede the action of the saw, but render the operation painful and clumsy. Much is said about the attention and ability of your assistant while amputating, and that it depends upon him whether the bone be splintered or not at the time it is sawn through, and likewise the hitching of the saw is attributed to his awkwardness. Now, the fact is, so much does not depend upon the assistant as has been asserted; the assistant should merely allow the limb to rest upon his hand ; he should neither depress nor elevate, but quietly permit the position of the limb to be regulated by the operator, and carefully keep it in that situalion : the hitching of the saw will then be prevented, and the operator himself may avoid splintering the bone, by causing the oscilla- tions of the saw to be short at the moment when the bone is nearly cut through. 'J’he vessels to be secured in this operation are the anterior and posterior tibial arteries, and sometimes the ante- rior and posterior interosseal. In tying the posterior tibial artery, take care not to include in the ligature the nerve which accom- panies it. After having applied your ligatures, cut off one end of each, and let the remaining ends hang out together at the bottom