589 ON SCROFULA. are eiti'emely long and thin, but at the extremities are broad and flat. The upper lip is of considerable thickness, and this is a mark of debility. Those who are the .subjects of scrofulous diseases often have follicles on different parts of the body, incrusted with inspissated matter. In scrofulous persons the absorbent glands and joints are most frequently attacked ; the absorbent glands, for a reason which I shall hereafter give ; and the joints, from the exercise pioducing inflammation in the synovial membrane. You know that the absorbent glands of the neck and mesentery are more liable to scrofula than any others. Various other parts of the body are also liable to it; the lungs, the brain not unfre- quently, the eyes now and then, the heart, I believe, never; I have never seen an instance where it was. The secreting glands are rarely affected by scrofula, at least the liver and kidneys, for the testicle and breast are exceptions. The testicle is now and then liable to a scrofulous affection, and we occasionally see a scrofulous tumour in the breast. The secreting glands, however, are very rarely subject to this complaint. Scrofula differs in different constitutions ; it may be of an indolent or irritable kind, but more frequently of the first than the second. Of this cir- cumstance you may not yet be aware, but in the course of prac- tice, jou will find that an absorbent gland will enlarge, and con- tinue sj for weeks,'and often for months, before it suppurates j and, on the contrary, that an enlarged gland will be in a most irritable state, and rapidly proceed to a state of suppuration. This last is by far the worst disease of the two ; for joint after joint, and various parts of the body become inflamed, whilst, in indolent habits, the complaint is sometimes confined to a parti- cular class of parts, and the rest are excluded. This, however, is a variety. Infuenee qf Climate and Season on Scrofula.—You will find scrofula considerably influenced by climate, particularly those climates in which the change from cold to heat, and heat to moisture, are most frequent; and, on this account, our own island is favourable to the production of scrofulous disease. The vicissitudes of temperature are so frequent, that a man is never clothed so as to meet them, and the body is consequently ex- posed to these sudden and various changes. We find cold and rr.oist climates giving rise to the difference of scrofulous affec- tions, although it is found that those who live in countries where they are exposed to the extremes of heat or cold, are not the /