ox HERNIA. 250 bettei ; I never saw any injury done to persons from having too many, but have seen them die for want of a sufficient number. When a patient has two or three motions, the surgeon thinks he will do well, but the danger is not over, and it will be necessary to keep up a free discharge from the bowels by opening medi- cines, or the patient will die. The nistory of a case is generally lliis : in four or five hours after the operation the patient has a motion, and in the course of twenty-four hours, two or three, and he will be supposed to be doing well. On the following day there will be no motion; the abdomen is tense and tender to the touch, and vomiting comes on. The patient, gentlemen, at this time is in the greatest danger; you must bleed largely and purge him freely by medicines or injections. You do not find that the peritoneal inflammation usually comes on, if venesection has been resorted to before the operation. Calomel wth opium should be given ; five, or even in some cases ten, grains of ca- lomel, and from one to Iwo grains of opium. It will be useless to give calomel with any other medicine than opium, for it will be rejected ; purgative clysters, together with cathartic extract, should also be administered. Were I to tell you how many I have known do well for three days, and then die after all, I should enumerate a long list; great danger is to be apprehended for some time afterwards, and even those who have two or three motions within the first twenty four hours often die. The patient will be sometimes affected with hiccough ; this is not the result of gangrene, but peritoneal inflammation, and must be treated by bleeding and purgatives; these may be aided by a little opium. I will mention to you the most striking example that now oc- curs to my mind of hiccough after the operation. I was sent for to Maidstone, to operate on a patient for strangulated hernia. The gentleman had a large intestinal hernia, and the symptoms were exceedingly severe. I performed the operation, returned the intestine, and left the patient in what is termed a comfortable state. I was exceedingly gratified on the following day to hear that the patient was very easy; but it was staled in the letter that the hiccough was as bad as when I operated. I wrote to say that this was not the result of gangrene. No, gentlemen, I assure you it is the result of peritoneal inflammation ; and take m’y word tor it, no other means but the antiphlogistic treatment will do. Tile patient of whom I am speaking was bled twice. 1 he ope-