688 ON SCROFULA. undergo all the different processes of inflammation, the adhesive and suppurative processes, ulceration and gangrene; but gan- grene less frequently than any of the others. These four pro- cesses are thus the effect of scrofulous diseases, but you find them all imperfectly performed. The adhesive matter secreted in scrofulous affections, instead of being firm, consists of a cur4- like matter, easily broken, and very soft; and this is owing to the blood-vessels not entering it. The suppuration is not of the common kind ; it contains curd-like matter, and is truly pu- rulent ; ulceration is slow in its progress ; granulations are un- equal and slow in forming. These processes are the effect of in- flammation, but are also connected with debility ; each is im- perfectly performed. But how do scrofulous and common chronic inflammation differ ? In common chronic inflammation there is debility, but it is the result of intemperance, or change of consti- tution ; but, in scrofula, the weakness exists from birth; it is congenital or original debility. The age at which scrofula manifests itself is during growth ; it is extiemely rare for it to occur after. But common chronic inflammation, arising from a change of constitution, produced by intemperance, or any other cause, occurs after growth has stopped, and is much more easy of cure than scrofulous inflammation. Scrofulous disease depends on a state of constitution different to that which gives rise to common chronic inflammation. The one is original, the other is produced in after life. The character of a scrofulous child is as follows :—You will find the skin thin if you pinch it, which is quite different from the skin of children who are not scrofulous ; in them the skin is solid and dense, and the fibres strong; but in scrofulous children the skin is thin, and the vessels may be seen meandering under it; and it is on this account that persons with this disease frequently have a rosy colour, arising from the thinness of the skin, which allows the vessels to be seen under it. The hair is also light-coloured. If you observe in a family of five or six children, one among them who has a delicate thin skin, light hair, and complexion, you will find that if they are all exposed to the same causes, they will escape from any scrofulous affection, with the exception of the one stamped by nature, and that this, during its growth, will be affected by the disease. The hair is also extremely fine, the eye- lashes long, the pupils dilated, and the fingers are what is called clubbed, similar to the fingers in phthisical persons; the fingers