192 ON THE TYING OF ARTERIES. died. When I was with Mr, Cline, about forty years ago, one of my fellow-apprentices came up to me in a great fright, and said, “Lord! Cooper, what do you think I have done !’' “Something very bad, surely,” replied I, “or you would not look so pale.”—“ Why, I have just been bleeding a man, and in doing so have punctured his radial artery.” “ Well, I said, ‘ b he in the hospital'! ”—“ Oh, no, 1 have taken care of that, I bound up his arm as tightly as 1 could, and sent him away.” In two or three days this man came back, and showed lib arm to the surgeon, who, very properly, upon seeing what was the matter, made light of it, told him that a trifling operation must be performed, and in a few days he would be quite well. 'J'he man, upon hearing that he was again to be cut, would not consent, und left the hospital. As he was W2dking up Holborn he hap- pened to see the shop of a barber-surgeon, and in he went; this learned gentleman, after having inspected the tumour, said that tie would soon give him relief by letting out the matter with lib lancet; well, he thrust in the instrument, and the moment he did so, out gushed a quantity of arterial blood ; this so frightened the barber, that he rushed out of his shop, and left the poor patient to manage for himself j fortunately some person happened to be in the way, who bound up his arm, and brought him to the hospital; one of the surgeons 'put a ligature upon the artery, and the man ultimately did well. In tying the brachial artery, there is only one circumstance of any importance to bear in mind, and it is this ; the vessel b accompanied by the median nerve j now, if you should include this in the ligature, it would either destroy the patient’s life or cause paralysis of the limb. When you are about to secure the brachial artery, the direction for the incision b the inner edge of the biceps muscle, and this cut almost immediately lays bare the median nerve. TyrNG THE Ulnar Arterv. When this artery is required to be secured, what b the ana- tomical direction for the incision 1 Why the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris : if you make your cut upon the inner side of this tendon, you will directly perceive the ulnar artery and ulnar nerve. Thb then b the part where the vessel may be most easily and safely tied. Tying the Radial Artery. What b the anatomical direction here'!—the answer is, the tendon of ihe flexor carpiradialis—cut upon the radial side of the