ON PUNCTURING THE BLADDER 402 think of introducing the trocar directly behind the prostate gland but at the distance of at least half an inch from it; the distance’ of three-quarters of an inch is better. When you pass your finger into the rectum you will feel the bladder projecting into it. It is elastic, and yields with difficulty to the pressure of the finger ; yo'j will readily feel the fluctuation. This leads you to the spot where the trocar is to be introduced j the triangular space is directly presented to the point of the instrument. This is a very easy operation, and may be had recourse to by a surgeon who consults his own ease rather than the advantage of his patient. I will describe to you the steps of the operation, and then men- tion the objections which may be urged against it. You intro- duce your finger about an inch behind the prostate gland, and upon the upper part of the finger pass the trocar, which may be either curved or straight, to the posterior part of the bladder. When the point of the instrument rests upon the upper part of the rectum and the posterior part of the bladder, you pass the trocar into the bladder by a slight and sudden motion of the hand. As to the direction in which the trocar is to be carried, it is obliquely upwards and forward. If you were to push it through the fore part of the abdominal parietes, it would pass midway between the pubes and the navel. The place at which the point of the instrument should penetrate, supposing it to be carried through the bladder, is half way between the umbilicus ajid the symphysis pubis. In this direction it will readily enter the bladder. The objections to an operation which is so easily performed are these : Although you introduce an elastic gum catheter for the purpose of allowing the urine to distil through it, some of it will trickle by the side of the instrument into the rec- tum, and produce a high degree of irritation. Mr. C., a surgeon of Gloucester, had a patient under his care for more than two years, who suffered from a high degree of irritation in the rectum after this operation, a sinus having formed between the bladder and the rectum ; he died from the consequences of this disease. This is an objection which may be urged against puncturing the bladder in this way ; and though the operation sometimes suc- ceeds, it is, upon the whole, one which ought not to be resorted to. I went down into the country some years ago, to see an elderly gentleman, who was labouring under retention of urine. When I arrived, the surgeon told me he had relieved his patient by puncturing the bladder through the rectum ; I said I was hap-