4to2 ON TIIF, DIFFERENT AMI'-UTATIONS. moral artery, uuder Poupart’s ligament, above the origin of iba arteria profunda. A question in the first place arises whether we should perform the operation of amputation at the hip-joint, when it can be done through the trochanter major. 1 say, no. I nless the disease of the thigh-bone extends quite up to the joint, as in the case in which I recently performed the operation ; it is undoubtedly better to saw through the trochanter major tlian to cut the bone from the acetabulum. ^Vhen the acetabulum ia laid open, great constitutional irritation is produced by the sup- purative process—abscess after abscess arises, and the life of the' patient is jjul into imminent danger. Though this operation has been occasionally performed with success, I feel it my duty to im- press upon your minds most strongly the danger to which it ex- poses the patient; it occasions the most violent irritation, and reduces him to the lowest possible state, so that he can with diffi- culty recover , whereas, the operation of amputation throngh. the trochanter major is attended with very little risk. After the femoral artery is tied, there is no difficulty in the future steps' of the operation; a doubt may arise whether the femoral artery is laid bare above or below Poupart’s ligament; and to ascertaio this, slit up the artery a little, to see whether the orifice of the profunda is above or below. As you cannot form a very large: flap on the outer side, the principal flap must be made from- tlie inner side. Pass your knife above the trochanter major, along^ the muscles ; and, having made your two flaps, the next point is to dislocate the head of the bone, which snaps as soon as the ligament is divided. The French operate with a very long knife, nearly as long- aa a sword ; they pass it down directly into the caspular liga- ment, until it touches the head of the bone, carry it through the round head of the bone, and, cutting through the muscles along the trochanter major, bring it out at the back of the thigh. ( The learned professor performed the amputation at the hip- joint, and the other amputations described in this Lecture on the iead subject.) LECTURE LI. In adverting to the sub eel of complaints in the anus, I have al-