ON SLOUGHING BUBO. 563 making some general remarks on syphilis. It occasionally hap- pens that, when bubo suppurates, a sinus remains after the other partis healed. This may be often cured by an injection of about two grains of oxymur. hydr. to an ounce of water, or the undi- luted tincture of lytttB, which will generally bring on adhesive in- flammation. If these should not succeed, you must depend on the use of a seton, or laying the sinus open; but this latter mode is very rarely adopted. It sometimes happens that a gland pro- jects after ulceration has taken place ; when a case like this oc- curs, when the gland is insulated, and rises above the surround- i ing surface, you get rid of it by means of small troches, made of bread and oxymuriate of mercury, pointed at the extremity, which are inserted into the gland, and allowed to remain there I twenty-four hours : this generally brings on a little inflammation, I the death of the gland, and its separation from the surrounding parts. I have known the sulphate of copper produce the same • eflect, but the first is generally the best. When a number of ab- I sorbent glands are enlarged, never consider tlie complaint as sy- j philitic : they are owing to a defect of the constitution, and never I to syphilis. After a bubo has suppurated and ulcerated, it now I and then assumes the character of what is called a phagedenic I ulcer. If consulted about the nature and treatment of this kind I of ulcer, what would you say 1 First, that phagedenic bubo is I an ulcer, with the edges thin, ragged, loose, and irregular, owing I to a morbid condition of the cellular membrane beneath it, which i is in a sloughing state: you see in a phagedenic bubo, if you look I attentively, that the cellular membrane under the skin is in a I sloughing state. There is an increased number of blood-vessels, over which the skin hangs loosely, and the ragged edges of the I sore are owing to a want of action in the part, the blood being re- I taioed in it on account of there not being sufficient freedom to carry it into the system. This kind of sore arises, then, from the ' cellular tissue, and it is difficult to give life to it, because it be- comes considerably excavated, and the skin hangs loosely over it. The best treatment that you can employ, is a saturated solu- ition of the nitrate of silver r dossils of lint, wetted with this lo- :tion, should be daily applied to the surface and edges of the 1 wounds and the lirjuor calci.s, with lime-water, should also be mscd. Od-silk should be put over the wound, to prevent it get- •ting dry ; for. if it Wcomes dry, there is great danger of the gan- I grene spreading ; therefore, the part should be kept wet, and this 2 ,j‘S