ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION APPEARANCES. 43 vesligate its nature, and published several papers on the subject in the Medico-Chinirgical Transactions : he named it fibrin. Air. Hunter called it coagulable lymph ; this certainly was not a good term to be applied to such a substance, for lymph is expres- sive of and relates to water; whereas, fibrin is not only a solid, but an exceedingly firm one. Some surfaces of the body are serous, while others are mu- cous. The cellular membrane is one of the former, and usually exhales a fluid somewhat resembling serum, but containing much less albumen. This membrane is very liable to the adhesive in- flammation. The vessels that usually secrete the fluid just men- tioned, when the partis inflamed, pour out fibrin, which becoming coagulated, produces the hardness which we usually find in in- flamed parts. The peritoneum, a membrane which doubly encloses the in- testines, is a serous surface, often affected by the adhesive in- flammation, which occasions the two surfaces of this membrane to be firmly glued together. But the part of all others the most subject to this kind of in- flammation is the pleura, and we scarcely ever open a body without finding npon its surface many unnatural adhesions. The heart, in like manner, is often glued to the pericardium, so that the space usually found between the two portions of niembrane is obliterated. Thus, then, it will be seen that the serous membranes readily take on the adhesive inflammation, by which they become per- manently attached to each other, or to the adjac^t parts; this IS a most beantiful and wise provision of nature, for if the mem- branes of cavities, such as the pleura and peritoneum, instead of the adhesive, were to receive and support the suppurative in- flammation, effusion and death would be the inevitable conse- quences. The mucous membranes, as the urethra, for example, are af- fected by the suppurative inflammation. This is another of na- ture’s benevolent and wise ordinances; for, had they been subject to the adhesive, the outlets of our bodies would have become closed, and life destroyed. Sometimes, where inflam- mation of a mucous membrane is exceedingly violent, it passes into the adhesive inflammation, glues the parts together, and unless relieved by an operation, would cnd.in the destruction of life. 1 can relate to you an example of this : tlicre was brought