ON INFLAMMATION. 22 minds (at least nine times in ten) ; this anxiety occasions a sort ot irritable fever, which invariably proves detrimental. But the best example of specific inflammation is scrofula. Persons attacked by this disease have generally light hair, fair complexion, delicate appearance; when inflammation occurs, it IS slow in its progress, although easily excited ; and at last, ul- ceration taking place, the discharge consists of curdy matter, or a thin serous fluid, not at all resembling the pus which is formed ’n healthy inflammations. The second kind of specific inflammation is caused by the ap- plication of poisons. Thus, in gonorrhoea, the matter secreted is widely different from common healthy matter, having, in the first place, a much larger quantity of mucus mixed with it; and, secondly, when applied to a secretmg surface, is capable of ex- citing in the part an action by which similiar matter and the same effects can be produced. The matter of small-pox occasions the same result, and as far as constitutional effects are concerned, it does not seem material how large or how small a quantity of the poison is applied, the result in each case depending upon the state of the constitution. There is another kind of 'nflammation which I would call tlie irritable; in this disorder the nerves are much more aflTecteJ than the blood-vessels. You are called probably to attend a person, who tells you that he feels in a particular part, as the hand or arm, a most agonizing pain : and if inexperienced in these matters, you will be inclined to doubt the correctness of your patient’s statement, and the more so as you can discover no alteration in the appearance of the part. It may not be amiss to mention here what happened to me some time ago. I was re- quested to see a lady having this complaint in her foot: I tried, by every possible means, to remove it but in vain. W'hen un- successful, I invariably recommend the sufferer to some one else. This lady consulted two other very eminent surgeons, but their efforts, in like manner, were unable to afford relief; and finding that she got worse in town, she went into the country for chang^e of air, where, without any medical means being employed, slie entirely got rid of her troublesome companion. I saw this lady afterwards, and she described the pain that she used to feel as horrible ; it was constantly at the bottom of her foot; and if she walked but a very short distance, it occasioned a confinement during four or five days.