0\ HAUE-LIP. 4C9 edges onhe wound to unite as soon as possible, any thing calcu- lated to retani that effect should be studiously avoided ; and, as wax is known to have a tendency to induce suppuration and ulceratiou, it should not be rubbed over the ligatures. Again the ligatures should not be too delicate, that is, not too thin ; if they are, the lip might be cut through by them. In performing the operation for hare-lip, there will sometimes be considerable bleeding from the superior labial artery. There will not be any necessity for applying a distinct ligature to the ressel, because you can easily lie the ligature at the angles of the lip in such a manner as shall compress the artery, and stop the bleeding. It is very improper to put a ligature on the vessel, as it interferes with union by adhesion ; from its producing sup- puration, the pus, of course, would form between the edges of the wound. On the fourth day after the operation, the middle ligature may be removed, and on the fifth or sixth, tlie other. In this respect, I am merely speaking of what generally may be done ; as regards the time of removal, you must be governed by the state in which you find the parts : if adhesion had not taken place, it would not be proper to take away the ligatures on the fourth or fifth day, and you should wait a day or two longer. Instead of silk ligatures, silver pins used to be employed for holding together the edges of the tip ; these, most properly, have been relinquished: it is true they answered very well, as far as keeping the edges of the integuments in apposition was concerned ; but the great objection to them was, that when on the fourth or fifth day you endeavoured to take them out, the difficulty of with- drawing them often occasioned the adhesions which had been formed to be completely torn through, and your operation so far defeated ; the pain which the exti’aclion of the pins produces is considerable, and the adhesions are frequently broken from the resistance, struggles, and cries of the child. Now, as regards the silk ligatures, you have merely to divide them by a pair of ■cussors, and the enrls can be displaced without using the slightest force. • When the edges of the lip have been brought together, and the •utures applied, no after-treatment will be necessary, excepting what I have already communicated to you ; you must not apply poultices, as they would give rise to the suppurative process in- stead of the adhesive. Vour best plan will be to let the blood remain over the wound ; let it clot there, and not sponge it off'.