DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. 6f> to treat; but, if the integuments bo brought together by a suture the parts beneath often heal by the adhesive process. The suture should not be kept in more than a week. In fractures of the Condyles of the Femur, extending into the joint, which are known by the great swelling" that takes place into the joint, by the crepitus and the deformity, you should place the limb on a pillow in the extended position, for then the head of the tibia keeps the extremities of the bones in their places. You should apply evaporating lotions, and leeches, if necessary, to subdue the inflammation, and then mould a piece of stout pasteboard, moistened, round the knee, and bind it on with a roller. This, when dry, adapts itself equally to the different surfaces, and forms a most excellent splint to retain the fractured extremities of the bones. After five weeks you should commence passive motion, or otherwise anchylosis will take place. The same observations apply to fractures of the head of the tibia. Of the Dislocations of the Ankle-Joint. This articulation is well protected by numerous strong liga- ments: the union of the fibula particularly is so firm to the tibia and the tarsal bones, that it generally happens that the bone will rather break than the ligaments give way. I have seen the tibia dislocated in three directions—inwards, forwards, and out- wards ; and a fourth, backwards, is sometimes said to occur. The dislocation, inwards is most frequent. The fool is thrown outwards, and its inner edge rests upon the ground: the internal malleolus projects so much against the integuments as to threaten their laceration. The foot easily rotates on its axis: there is also a depression above the malleolus externus, attended with great pain; and about three inches above the lower end of the fibula, a crepitus may be felt. This accident generally happens from a person jumping from a considerable height, or from running violently with the toe turned outwards, the foot being suddenly checked in its motion whilst the body is carried forwards on the foot, and the ligaments on the inner side of the ankle give way. By grasping the leg about three inches above the ankle, and freely rotating the foot, a crepitus of the fibula will be perceived. To reduce the dislocation, place the patient on a mattress on his injured .side, and bend the leg at right angles with the thigh, so as to relax the gastrocnemii ; let an assistant grasp the foot, and gradually draw it in a line with the leg. You should, at the same time, fix the thigh, and press the tibia downwards, to force it on the articulating surface of the astragalus. After the reduction,