ON ULCERS. 97 period ; for- the irritating cause having been removed, the fungus will soon disappear. Tlie next best plan to be adopted, for curing these cases, is the application of a blister ; this brings away the cuticle, and often the nail along with it. The most lenient method is the one first mentioned, viz., the introduction of a piece of lint. IVIr. Hunter, in alluding to this disease, said that the parts were not in a state of harmony. This is very true, and a very proper expression ; he also applied it to those cases where a disease in the gland producing the nail, causes the nail to turn black; such affections are not uncommon, and are often thought to be syphilitic, and I have frequently known persons salivated in consequence. This opinion, however, is perfectly erroneous. You must wash the sore with liq. calcis and calomel, and admi- nister the pil. hydr. submur. comp, and decoct sarsae. Sometimes, in these cases, we are obliged to dissect out the gland that produces the nail; and though the operation is a most painful one for the patient, yet we are, for the purpose of afford- ing permanent relief, compelled to perform it. Whitlow, what is it 1 Why, an exceedingly painful swelling, terminating in an abscess by the side of a nail. The principle is this: the matter forms at first under the nail, but, being unable to force its way through that horny substance, burrows under it, thus producing excessive pain and irritation. Fungous ex- crescences often arise in these cases, which induce the surgeon to apply caustic, this practice is worse than useless. You should after fomenting or poulticing the part, remove the loose portion of nail; this pennits the matter to escape, and instantaneous relief is the result. The next ulcer that I shall describe is the inenstrual: I mean by this, a sore which is once in three weeks or a month covered with blood. This complaint is connected with amenorrhoea. In going round the hospitals, you must all have observed that females will one day have their sores covered with pus, and pro- bably the next day covered with blood. In fact, the menstrual ulcer is of very common occurrence. You must wash these sores with liq. calcis and calomel, give to the patient the mist. ferr. c. myrrh, and pil hydr. submur. comp., one ounce and a half of the fonner twice or three times a-day ; and five grains of the latter every night at bed-time. I'hese medicines will generally suc- ceed in improving the state of the constitution, by restoring the defective secretions. II