78 ON GRANULATION, Crete pus. There is a vein accompanying each artery, and the fluid conveyed by the vessels is partly converted into pus on the surface of the ulcer, and partly returned back to the heart. Granulations are not good absorbent surfaces in ulcers recently formed ; but if the ulcers have existed for any length of time, the absorbent vessels readily take into the system any substance which may be applied to them. In this way we frequently see persons salivated by the use of injections of the oxyrauriate of mercury. It is not an uncommon practice to inject a solution of a grain or two grains of oxymuriate of mercury into sinuses, for the pur- pose of stimulating the vessels. If the sinus has existed for a considerable time, the oxymuriate of mercury is frequently ab- sorbed, and the mouth becomes affected in the same manner as the mercury had been absorbed into the system by rubbing it in- to the skin, or taking it into the stomach. This proves that old granulating surfaces have the power of taking in, by absorption, a fluid of this description. I have known what is commonly called the black wash, which is composed of the liquor calcis and the submuriate of mercury, when applied to the surface of ulcers, produce an effect upon the mouths of persons who are easily affected by mercury. I believe that the wash of the liquor cal- cis and calomel often produces good effects in the cure of sores, by the mercurial action which it excites in the system, and not merely by its local effects on the sore to which it is applied. Ulcers are, however, frequently the means of producing baneful effects upon the constitution, by the readiness with which they absorbe any substances which are applied to them. Thns, arsenic ap- plied to the surface of sores is very frequently absorbed into the system; and on this account arsenic is to be regarded as a very dangerous external remedy. With respect to the use of arsenic as an internal remedy, it ought never to be employed with- out extreme caution, and unless the patient is watched from day to day. Case.—I remember a case in the other hospital, of a patient who was brought in with a fungus xrf the eye, and who was under the care of Mr. Lucas, a man of great skill in his profession, and the father of the present surgeon of that name Mr. Lucas ordered a solution of arsenic to be applied to the part. After it had been used for three days, the man complained of pain in the stomach but this was not supposed to arise from the free use of the solu- tion. The application was continued ; the pain in the stomach