ON ABSCESSES. 68 thought that matter acted chemically on the solids like an acid, or caustic atkali. Abscesses are dangerous according to the following circum- stances :— First, from their size. It is not, however, the quantity of matter produced which renders them dangerous, but the diiRculty which nature has in repairing tlie devastation made by excava- tion of the solids, from the pressure of the matter. An abscess may discharge a quart of matter, and the constitu- tion may have been scarcely affected by it; but very soon after it is opened the constitution begins to suffer. It is not, therefore, the quantity of matter, but the process of restoration after the evacuation of the matter, which affects the constitution. The largest abscesses which occur in the body are those of the liver. Patients will sometimes recover from abscesses of this part, in wliich immense quantities of matter have formed. I remember one of enormous magnitude, from which the patient recovered. Case.—Dr. Saunders, the lecturer on medicine at Guy’s, asked me to see a woman who had a large abscess in the side. I made an opening into it with a lancet, and it discharged a surprising quantity of matter, as much as would fill two-thirds of a wash hand basin. I have heard, indeed, of much larger quantities of matter having been discharged. After pressing out the matter, I passed a roller tightly round the abdomen, and brought the parts to- gether, with a view of producing the adhesive process, which now and then occurs. I did not see the patient again, but some days after I met Dr. Saunders, who asked me how I thought the pa- tient was going on. I told him I supposed he asked me, because he thought me very sanguine ; and he replied, that I would be gratified to learn that the woman was doing extremely well. In fact, the orifice had closed ; no more matter was discharged, and the patient got well without any bad symptoms, I have men- tioned this case because it may guide your practice when you are operating upon large abscesses, and show you the propriety of endeavouring to procure the adhesive process, by bringing the sides of the abscess together. Very lai^ abscesses some- times terminate favourably, but in a great number of cases they destroy life. The next circumstance which renders abscesses dangerous is their number. Thus, the great number of little abscesses on the surface of the body, in small-pox, frequently destroy life. Hero