ON COMPOUND FRACTURES. 671 tutional disturbance will be exceedingly great, and run the risk of destroying the patient. But if the opening be small, try to procure adhesion, and thus make it a simple wound. When the condyles of the femur are broken into the joint, the limb is to be placed on a pillow in the straight position, and evaporating lotions and leeches are to be used to subdue the inflammation and swelling which necessarily attend this accident. .Supposing the external wound to have closed, you then apply pieces of pasteboard, moistened by being soaked in warm water, about sixteen inches long, and broad enough to reach under the joint, and have them confined by a roller. When these dry, you will find them exactly adapted to the shape of the joint, and after- wards retain their form, so as best to confine the bones. I prefer the straight position in these cases, because the tibia presses the extremity of the broken condyle into a line with that which is not injured. Compound fractures of the elbow-joint generally happen through the internal condyles of the os humeri, and the fracture takes an oblique direction into the joint. In the most severe accidents of this kind, the constitution is generally able to support them, if they be judiciously managed ; I could mention to you several cases which would prove the success of the practice of effectiug union by adhesion. A case now presents itself to my recollection, of which I will give you an outline. I was called to this hospital, to see a brewer’s servant, who had a compound fracture of the elbow-joint, from the dray passing over his arm, which had considerably comminuted the bones. I could pass my finger readily into the joint, and feel the brachial artery pulsating on its fore part. Considering the violence done to the joint, and the constitution of the patient—as men in such employment, you know, are in the habit of drinking largely of porter and spirits, and therefore render their constitutions e.x- ceedingly irritable—I told him that I feared there was scarcely any chance of his recovery, unless he consented to,have the limb removed ; this he determined, however, not to submit to, and I therefore did all in my power to save both his life and his limb. The bones were easily replaced, and the parts were brought care- fully together. The limb was laid upon a splint, a bandage was Tightly applied, and the fore-arm was placed at right angles with the upper arm. The wound united without any untoward cir- cumstances; and the only thing that hajipencd, which appeared in the least to retard his recovery, was the formation of an abscess in his shoulder, which waa opened and immediately healed. The