ON FRACrURES QF THE SKULL.’ 14.3 you trephine; and when it is unattended with such symptoms though there may be depression, deplete merely, and never divide the scalp. If the fracture be compound, the treatment must be very dif- ferent, because a compound fracture is followed very generally by inflammation of the brain, and it will be of no use to trephine, when inflammation is once formed. It might be thought that it would be time enough to perform this operation when inflamma- tion had appeared ; but this is not the case, for if inflammation comes on, the patient will die whether you trephine or not, and you will be so far from arresting its fatal progress by trephining, that the operation will add to the danger of the inflammation. When inflammation o f the dura mater and membranes of the brain has been excited by the depression of the bone, you cannot retard the progress to death by performing the operation. These principles may be illustrated by many cases. During the first year of my apprenticeship in these hospitals, I saw two instances: one in a patient of Mr. Cline’s and another in a patient of Mr. Birch’s. Mr. Cline’s patient was a man who came from Wal- worth, with compound fracture, from a blow on the head. A portion of bone had been forced into the cavity in the skull. Mr. Cline advised him to submit to the operation of trephining. The man said, “ You may do what you like ; I am no judge, but you are, so do what you please with me.” Accordingly he walked into the operating theatre to be trephined ; the portion of bone was removed j he walked back again to bed, and never had a bad symptom. A short time after, a patient \jnder Mr. Birch, with fracture and depression, was told that he was in similar danger, and advised to undergo the same operation. He was, however, self-willed, and obstinately refused to submit to it. Eleven days after the accident, he was seized with pain in the head, and symp- toms of inflammation in the brain, and when he became insensi- ble, the operation of trephining was performed; but it did not arrest the symptoms, and he died of the inflammation. In the other hospital two boys were admitted under very similar circum- stances. 'fhe os frontis had, in one case, been broken by a kick from a horse, and in the other by a fall on the forehead. In the former case, the portion of bone was raised, and the boy did well; but the mother of the other boy interfered to'prevent the opera- tion of trephining; and though it was performed after symptoms of inflammation had appeared, he died. It is quite true that i\;