OPEKATION OF LITHOTOMY, 359 It has lately been proposed to remove stones from the bladder by performing the Qtehation of Lithotomy through the Rectum. It is recommended, gentlemen, because it is simple—because It can be easily done; but notwithstanding this, I can tell you that it is a dangerous operation. I have known it performed but in two instances, one patient died from inflammation of the rectum, and the other recovered, but with the dreadful misfortune of having a fistulous communication between the rectum and blad- der. Be upon your guard respecting these pretty little—easy- simple operations ; do not be misled by adopting them. Always reflect upon the nature of the parts on which you are going to operate ; steadily keep your eye on the ultimate success of your cases—not upon the applause you may derive from the neatness or facility with which your operations are accomplished ; and ever bear in mind, that upon the successful issue of your opera- tions will your reputation depend. LECTURE XLI. Before I showed you the operation for stone in the last lecture, I was speaking of the difficulties which arise in the extraction of stone from various circumstances ; as, for example, where the stone is excessively large, or where the perinaeum is very deep. A deep perinxum is a great obstacle ; the distance of the blad- der from the external parts throws great difficulties in the way of the operation. The force which it is necessary to employ in such cases is often so great as to lead to the destruction of life. M hen a stone of considerable magnitude is accompanied with an enlargement of the prostate gland, the patient rarely recovers from the operation. A number of small calculi in such cases is of less im- portance, but a large stone, accompanied with an enlarged pros- tate, generally leads to a fatal result. Mr. Henry Earle has con- structed an instrument, for the purpose of breaking large stones in the bladder by means of a perforating screw. I have not had an opportunity of making use of it; but it appears to me to be well constructed for that purpose, and very likely to suc- ceed, it is undoubtedly a very desirable thing to break stones, in cases either of a deep perinaeum, or an enlarged prostate, and the invention of such an instrument cannot but be advantageous to the profession. When I say that cases of large stone, accoro-