ON HERNIA 234 portion of intestine into the abdomen, it generally happens that the rest will follow, and the herpia will consequently be returned. It is of no use to make pressure on the hernia, with a view of emptying the intestines of their contents. This is an erroneous principle, for the contents of the intestines are very rarely the cause of stricture. It does, indeed, now and then happen that an indigestible mass occupies the orifice by which the hernia descends ; but in general nothing will be gained by pressure on the swelling, with a view of emptying the intestines of their con- tents. The time at which a hernia is returned by the process of the taxis is generally from ten to fifteen minutes. Do not attempt to perform it at once; proceed gently and gradually, and never press with any considerable force on the lower part of the swell- ing. Pressure at the orifice will not endanger the parts, but if you press with any force on the lower part of the swelling, you will run the risk of of bursting the intestine. Sometimes, indeed, we find the parts in such a state ns to render the operation un- availing, as vshere the intestines have given way, and feculent matter has descended into the hernial sac. Be upon your guard, therefore, not to employ so much force as to endanger the burst- ing of the intestine. It too often happens in our hospitals that patients are lost in consequence of gentlemen being suffered to make repeated triads of the taxis. It would be a good rule, and. I wish it were adopted in our hospitads, if the taxis were only to be used once for a quarter of an hour, and not repeated until other means were employed. The repetition of the taxis is not only useless at the time, but often renders other means for re- turning the hernia, which may be subsequently employed, un- availing. It now and then happens, that a person is so extremely sensi- tive, and resists the employment of the taxis with so much violence that it will be impossible to persevere, for a time at least, in its use. Mr, Croft, the surgeon, called upon me when I lived in the city, and requested me to see a patient of his with strangulated hernia. I went with him immediately, and while we were walk- ing to the patient’s house, Mr Croft said, “ I do not think you w'ill be able to return this man’s hernia.” I smiled, and said, “ \\'hy not !” Mr Croft stated, that the'parts about the abdo men were so exquisitely tender, that he had found it impossible