4.53 ON PILES. ready meutioned fistula in ano ; I shall, in this evening’s lecture proceed to the subject of Piles. Piles, which are complaints of very common occurrence, are, in the first instances, an enlargement of the hemorrhoidal veins; they are either external or internal, and the treatment will be somewhat different, according to the silaation of the disease. When a person applies to you with external pdes, he com- plains of pain in passing his motions, and tenesmus after the di.s- charge. On examination of the anus, you discover a projection of a livid appearance, which, in two or three days, becomes so solid as not to yield to pressure. The blood is coagulated in the nemorrhoidal veins ; after a time, the veins become inflamed, the patient feels uneasiness in going to stool, and observes that his faeces are tinged with blood. In a short time the pressure of the faices on the-internal part of the rectum brings down the pile, to that it becomes external. The gut is brought down in this way every time the patient has a motion, and he is under the ne- cessity of pressing upon the part for some time, in order to re- turn the rectum into its original situation. This is a great tax on his time, as well as a cause of considerable suffering; the bleed- ing is at this time very considerable, and the discharge is attended with great irritabilily of the rectum. At length inflammation takes place, which adds greatly to the patient’s suffering, and he is often unable to return the rectum when it has descended. A person is thus exposed to considerable inconvenience and suffering from this complaint, and he is very anxious, after a time, to have it removed. Prolapsus ani is to be considered as the effect of internal piles. I knew a person, who held a situation which required his attend- ance in the early part of the day, who was under the necessity of rising at a very early hour, in order that he might have his eva- cuation, and have sufficient time to return the rectum. A piece of lint, dipped in oil, should be applied, when a considerable bleeding takes place from the pile or piles. There is sometimes a disharge of matter, and now and then the piles become ulcer- ated. With respect to the causes of this complaint it sometimes arises from costiveness, and the pressure of hardened fmces on the rectum ; and is very often a consequence of long continued diar-