241 ON HERNIA. You will be asked how you distinguish direct from oblique inguinal hernia; your answer should be, that they are distin- guished by the two following circumstances :—In the_/irst place, tracing the spermatic cord, you will find that in direct inguinal hernia, the hernia is behind the spermatic cord, whereas in ob- lique inguinal hernia the spermatic cord is behind the hernia. Secondly, When you trace the mouth of the hernial sac, in oblique hernia, you find it above the abdominal ring, towards the spine of the ilium ; whereas in direct hernia there is rather an inclina- tion inwards, towards the umbilicus, so that it passes in a direction from without towards the pubes ; from above downwards with a slight obliquity outwards. These are two points which can only be distinguished by those who have frequently observed the dis- ease in the living subject, and who have also had frequent oppor- tunities of examining, in the dissecting-room, the bodies of those who have died under the disease. Bearing these points in your minds, you will be able to form correct general principles by which you may be guided in performing the operation for strangulated inguinal hernia. The cause of direct inguinal hernia is generally some great exertion of the lower part of the abdominal muscles. It hap- pens most frequently in patients who are the subjects of stricture. The greatest number of hernire I have ever seen m one patient amounted to five. This man, who had a very bad stricture, had three hemiae on one side, and two on the other; on eon the inner side of the epigastric artery, one on the inner side of the umbilical, two on the opposite side of the epigastric, another on the opposite side of the umbilical artery. This species of hernia arises more frequently from the efforts made to expel the urine incases of stric- ture, than from any other cause. Direct hernia may be tmly called a rupture ; whenever a tear of the parts takes place, direct, and not oblique, inguinal hernia is produced : I have never seen an oblique hernia produced by a blow on the abdomen. When the direct hernia is reducible, you should apply the truss not so as to press upon the pubes, for this will give pain, but upon parts a little above the abdominal ring. You should not press upon the whole of the iuguinal canal, as in the case of oblique hernia ; but the truss should be so applied as to make its pressure bear towards the centre of the abdominal ring. When a direct inguinal hernia is strangulated, the patient is often in great danger, though it ap- pears to be reduced, as the intestine may still be strangulated R