CANCER OF THE EYE. 322 different forms of the complaint. No one texture of the eye if free from it. It frequently commences from the optic nerve, ex- tends to the retina, sclerotic and choroid coats ; but on examin- ing a fungus of the eye, it would be difficult to say where it began, the disorganization is so complete ; the retina is destroyed —the humours are absorbed—the choroid protrudes, and very little of the natural texture is left. (Here the learned gentleman exhibited to the class specimens, which showed the different ap- pearance in the different forms of the disease.) In the case from which one specimen was taken Mr. H. Cline extirpated the eye; the patient was a Portuguese. The greater part of the anterior chamber is filled with a dark substance, like the pigmen- tum nigrum. In this man, however, the disease returned. In some instances you will find the disease extending along the optic nerve, which enlarges, becomes altered in texture—of a brown colour—and reaches the brain which will also be affected by the disease. The only remedy in this disease is the extirpa- tion of the eye, and this in the early stage. In most cases, the operation proves unsuccessful, in consequence of its not being performed sufficiently early, or before there is a disposition in the constitution to reproduce the disease. There is another disease which requires extirpation of the eye ; therefore, I shall speak of it first, and then describe the operation. . Cancer of the Eye. By cancer of the eye is meant, not cancer of the globe, of the eye, for it rarely or never commences in it; but it begins in the appendages and conjunctiva, and then extends to the globe of the eye; but I repeat that this disease scarcely ever makes its appear- ance first in the globe ; its common seal is in the conjunctiva. Cancer of the eye, at the onset, resembles a warty tumour, with an ulcer on its surface, which has exactly the same appearance as ulcers in other parts of the body ; therefore it will not be ne- cessary for me to describe them ; it then extends not only to the globe of the eye, but to the palpebral lining, the lachrymal gland, the periosteum of the bones, forming the orbit, and the antrum ; in fact, the globe, and its appendages, become one entire mass o'' disease. No good can be expected in the treatment of this complainl unless the cancer be early removed by the knife. In the pio-