ON VIRULENT GONORRHCEA. 500 very curious and laughable disquisitions on this subject by per- sons who prefer entering into such speculations to making ob- servations for themselves. There can be no doubt that the dis- ease is produced by the direct application of the poison to the lips of the urethra, for you will find that the first symptom which takes place is a pouting state of the lips of the urethra, arising from inflammation. The lips are first attacked, and the inflam- mation gradually extends itself to the internal surface of the ure- thra; the disease begins from without, and extends itself to the internal surface. So much for the manner in which the poison is received. We find that the discharge from gonorrhoea is very much affected by constitutional causes. A man shall have an abundant discharge from the urethra, considerable pain, and even chordee : and if he should get a fever, the discharge disappears, the pain ceases and he will be entirely free from all symptoms of the disease for a period of from seventeen to twenty days. As soon, however, as he begins to recover from bis fever, the dis- charge of matter will return the pain and chordee will also re- turn, and a long time may elapse before the disease can be re- moved. These constitutional causes suspend the action of go- norrheea, but the symptoms will return as soon as the constitu- tional irritation ceases. You will generally find the cure of go- norrhoea difficult in proportion as the cons'itution of the patient is disposed to strumous affections. If a patient has pimples in his face, enlargement of the glands of the neck, a thin delicate skin and irritable fibre, you may expect to have great difficulty in curing him of gonorrhoea. I shall now proceed to speak Of the Treatment of Gonorrhwa.—The treatment of gonoirhcea is founded on two principles; the disease may be either treated simply, by diminishing inflammation, or it may be treated by producing a change in the action of the part, by which tha dis- ease is removed in a short period. 1 hese are the two principles on which surgeons act in the treatment of gonorrhoea. In the first place, gentlemen, let me observe to you, that no greater folly, and indeed cruelty, can be committed, tlian that of giv- ing mercury to patients, for the cure of this disease- A man who gives mercury in gonorrhoea really deserves to be flogged out of his profession, because he must be quite ignorant of the principles on which this disease is to be cured. To give mer- cury to a young and irritable person, who is probably constantly exposed to the vicissitudes of temperature, for a disease which