228 ov hernia. inulation of flatus in the intestines. This is evident, 1)ecause the patient does not at first complain of pain on pressure of the ab- domen. The vomiting becomes more frequent, and feculent matter is ejected from the stomach ; I am aware it has been said that this is impossible; but really, gentlemen, one can hardly bear this fact denied, and preserve one’s patience. The contents of the intestines thrown up from the stomach, have the common smell of feces, and most of you are aware that the contents of the intestines do not acquire the smell peculiar to feces until they have passed the valve of the ilium. The matter thrown up from the stomach has not only the solidity of feces, but the smell peculiar to them ; and any man who denies that it is feculent matter, must really resist the evidence of his senses. The fact is, that as soon as a hernia becomes strangulated, inversion of the peristaltic motion of the intestines begins. If any of yon have not witnessed the peristaltic motion of the intestines, I advise you to get a rabbit, strike it on the back of the head, and immediately open its abdomen, in order to see the peristaltic motion of the intestines. No man ought to practise his profession without knowing accurately the nature of the peristal- tic motion of the intestines. Well, gentlemen, as soon as any portion of the intestines is strangulated, the anti-peristaltic motion begins; the valve of the ilium is of no use, and the action of the intestines becomes retro- grade. Hence, the patient loses the power of discharging the feces, and they are thrown up in the action of vomiting. A clyster will sometimes bring away a portion of feculent matter but the quantity will be extremely small. During the time that the abdomen is in this tense state, but unaccompanied with pain, and while there is frequent vomiting of the feces, the pulse ii hard, frequent, and very distinct; but in the next stage of s)rmp- toms, when the abdomen is not only tense but painful to the touch, you will find the pulse extremely small and frequent; so small that it can scarcely be felt; so frequent that it can hardly be counted. The vomiting and eructation continue, and the patient is pale, and covered with a cold perspiration. The tumour be- comes very tense, hard, and in general a little inflamed on the surface of the skin. A person unaccustomed to observe the symptoms of strangu- lated hernia, when he felt the pulse of the patient, and perceived