ON ULCERS. 101 ->lan of treatment to be pursued here is as follows, you must get prepared aa ointment according to the following prescrip- tion :— R. Arsenic Oxyd. Sulphur Flor.aa 3j. Ungt. Cetacei jj. M. fiat unguenlum. You must spread some of this ointment on lint, lay it on the ulcer, and leave it there for twenty-four houm ; then remove it; a slough will come away: you dress the ulcer with some simple ointment, and it will generally heal. If the ulcer is not deep, you may cure this complaint without using thd arsenical prepa- ration, by merely painting the surface of the sore with a so- lution of the nitrate of silver. You must be cautious, however, in your manner of using this application. A gentleman once came to me with an ulcer of the kind of which I am now speaking, cind which I painted in the manner described to you with a camel- hair brush. In the course of the day, when at Lloyd’s, he was asked by some friend what was the matter with his nose ; for they told him it was quite black; and, in point of fact, it was so. I was not aware, at that time, that a solution of the nitrate of silver would have produced that effect; and I merely mention the circumstance, that you may be on your guard. Deep ulcers having a malignant aspect, often remain in tbe faces of old per- sons without producing any ill consequences, though, from their appearance, they portend the most direful effects. To such sores, the best application is the lotion, composed of liquor calcis and calomel. Ulcers frequently form in joints, arising from inflammation caused by a deposition of the urate of soda. Persons will come to you with many joints open from this cause. A gentleman came to me from the country, thus circumstanced. Several of his joints were quite exposed, and the cartilages of some of them absorbed. I found, in each of these joints a lump of the urate of soda ; therefore, when it is necessary, you increase the open- ings, through the skin, remove the urate of soda, that being the exciting cause of the disease. Occasionally, the thickened state of the edfes of ulcers impede the healing process. These edges must be ..lapted to their sur- faces, and this may be done by means of the empl.galban. comp., which will remove the indurated cuticle, and stimulate the parts