406 ON DUOFSy OF THE ABDOMEN. vary our operations, for the benefit of the students, where it can be done with safety to the patient, Mr. Key interposed, and said to me, “Oh, no! do not quit your operation of opening the urethra.” This is certainly the operation which I advise you to perform : and if you feel any difficulty in performing it, go, gen- tlemen, to the dissecting room, and study till you have surmounted that difficulty. The learned professor concluded by showing, on the dead sub- ject the mode of extracting small stones from the bladder, with- out the use of cutting instruments. He exhibited to the class the forceps invented for this purpose, at his own suggestion, by Mr. Weiss of the Strand, to whose ingenuity and skill he paid a well- merited tribute. With this instrument Sir Astley extracted no fewer than eighty-four calculi from the bladder of the Rev. Mr. , of Barnwell, in Cambridgeshire.He had since ex- tracted thirty calculi from another person. Some years since he performed the operation of lithotomy on a young man at Wapping. A few months ago this person called upon him, and said that he was sure he had a stone in his bladder. I'he learned professor said that if it was a .small one he could extract it from him without cutting, and he succeeded in immediately extracting a stone from the bladder. The same patient called again upon him shortly after, and said he was convinced there was another stone in his bladder. No stone could be found, but the forceps were expanded on being withdrawn, so as to stretch the passage. The patient was recommended to resist the inclination to make water for a considerable time; and the first time he made water he passed three or four small calculi. Sir Astley observed, that by regulating the screw of this instrument, so as to increase its force, even large triple phosphates might be broken and removed from the bladder, --.!^'^ECTURE xlvi. ; J On Dbopsy op the Abdomen, There are two species of this dropsy, viz.. Peritoneal or Ascilei, and the Encysted or Ovarian. The Peritoneal Dropsy is an accu- mulation of water in the cavity of the peritoneum, and the Ova- rian Dropsy is a collection of water in the membrane which covers the ovarium : first, then, of