520 INFLAMMATION OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. InniTAiii.E State op the Urethra. If attended with inflammation, it, is of the chronic kind. Per- sons having this complaint have a frequent desire to make water. This disorder may be cured by giving, three times a day, an eighth part of a grain of the oxymuriate of mercury, and a drachm of the nitrous spirit of sether ; these may be taken in any convenient vehicle, should be continued for a little time, and the complaint will disappear. LECTURE LVIII. The first subject on which I shall this evening engage your at- tention is, enlargement of the prostate gland. There are three species of disease, exclusive of the formation of calculi, by which this gland is affected; now the one which I shall first describe to you, is Acute iNPLAMMATroN op the Prostate Gland. This complaint is not confined, like the chronic enlargement, to late periods of life, but attacks persons of any age, and gene- rally terminates in suppuration. The most prominent symptom which characterizes this complaint, is violent pain immediately after discharging the urine, and in this respect the disease re- sembles stone. As the inflammation advances, an abscess in the prostate produces retention of urine ; this may be relieved by a common catheter; it will answer the purpose well, and for this disorder the prostatic catheter will not be necessary. You there- fore pass a common catheter, and about the fourth day you will perceive that the matter escapes through it, and at which time your patient will be greatly relieved. The Medical Treatment of Acute Inflammation of the Prostate Gland, consists in taking blood from the arm, and administering mild laxatives, together with antimonial medicines. Generally speaking, the disease is not so clearly manifested by the symp- toms as to satisfy your mind of its true nature, until the matter escapes by the catheter: this, coupled with the other appear- ances, stamp its true character. Rigors do not attend the form- ation of this matter. The next kind of enlarged prostate that I shall describe to you, may be caHed '1’he Chronic Inflammation. It is the consequence of age, and not of disease j when this