ON NASAL POLYPI, .483 the antrum, is to divide it by means of a pair of curved scissors, and then with- your finger hook down the polypus at the hack of the mouth, from over the velum pendulum palati; in this way it falls into the throat, and produces a sensation of choaking ; retch- ing is the consequence, and the polypus will he thrown upon the floor before you. Mr. Ring, a surgeon of Reading, had a pa- tient with a polypus of this kind^ removed in the manner I have just mentioned to you ; it was a very large one, and when I first went to Reading, I put a ligature upon it, but this did not prove of any use, it only succeeded in getting away a small portion of it, the root was not removed ; the polypus soon became again as large as ever; and I am now of opinion, that a ligature in these cases should never be applied. If, after the operation has been performed, you think any por- tion of the polypus remains, you should, by means of a probe, pass up a piece of lint to the spot, to prevent any annoyance from hemorrhage; the lint previous to its introduction may be dipped in a solution of alum ; indeed, where patients have objected to have the polypi removed by the forceps or scissors, it has been recommended to use injections of solutions of alum, or the oxy- mur. hydrarg. The next species of nasal polypi which I shall describe to you, is the Hydatid Polypi, These are generally found in young people. The first case of the kind that 1 ever saw, was in this hospital; the subject of it was a young girl about sixteen years of age; when Mr. Cline attempted to remove it, it burst, and there escaped a small quan- tity of watery fluid ; upon pressure being then made at the side of the nose, anodrer burst, until at length bladder after bladder burst, and the whol# were discharged. It was thought at the time that the complaint was cured ; in a few weeks, however, it again returned, and again was discharged. Since that time I have seen several similar cases. The peduncle of the hydatid polypus lesembles the cord formed from the placenta; it is com- posed of thia fibres or films, which form the covering of the po- lypus, and these converge to complete the peduncle. The be.st plan of treatment that can be pursued for the cure of hydatid po- lypi, IS daily to touch them with the muriate of antimony ; this can easily be done by means ol a camel hair pencil ; a verv few tHnes vri!! be sufficient; it acts chcmitally on the polyjii," and