ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST 383 the most frequent is grief, or anxiety of mind. It arrests the progreaj of the secretions, produces irritative fever, and becomes the forerun- ner of scirrhous tubercle. How often have I seen, when a mother or a nurse has been watching, night after night, with anxious so- licitude, the pangs and sufferings of a child, and she hud the com- fort and giatification of seeing its recovery, that in a short time after this she has come to me with an uneasiness of the breast, which, on examination, I discovered to be scirrhous tubercle. Full three-fourths of these cases arise from grief and anxiety of mind. It is the state of mind and body which predisposes to this disease. The mind acts on the body ; the secretions are arrested, and the result is, the formation of scirrhus. Look, then, in this complaint, not only at altering the state of constitution, but re- lieve the mind, and remove the anxiety, if possible, under which the patient labours. As to local treatment, we possess no specific local applications* They can do nothing more than retard, in some slight degree, the progress of the disease. It is sometimes accompanied by common inflammation, and evaporating lotions are occasionally used. I do not think you would act wisely in employing them ; they seem rather to do harm than good. Warm applications are also im- proper, if they be of considerable heat. Under warm applica- tions the disease grows, for they increase the determination of blood to the part. If poultices are used they should not be above the natural heat; but patients generally complain of them as being uncomfortable. It is better to employ the soap cerate. If there be much pain with the disease, I order a drachm of ex- tract of belladonna to be rubbed down with an ounce of the soap cerate; this diminishes the nervous irritability ot the part, and the advantage of the soap cerate is, that it excites a gentle perspiration without any undue heat; it is the most useful appli- cation that I know of. If there be much inflammation you can apply leeches, though the mode of treatment which I like, is to alter the constitution, and the best for this purpose is the exhibi- tion of five grains of Plummer’s pill (the pilula hydrargyri sub- muriaiLs composita of the pharmacopoeia) at bed-time, and on th» following day R. Iiifus. gentian Jis-s. Sodai carb. 3-ss. Tinct. columb. 3i. Ammon, carbon, gr.v.