649 FRACTURES OF THE THIGH-BONE. ctiately to detect these injuries, andgenerally succeed in reducing them? Let us never forget, however, that it is to the knowledge .of anatomy that we are indebted to this superiority, to the study of which we cannot devote too much attention, and to acquire an intimate knowledge of which we should consider no sacrifice too great, if we wish to establish our reputation as surgeons, or humanely to discharge our duties to mankind.—(Repeated and long continued applause.) Before I proceed to describe the other dislocations, I shall apeak of the Fractures uohich happen at the upper part of the Thighs Bone. It is not only necessary, accurately to distinguish these acci- dents froin dislocations, with which they might be confounded, but also from each other. Three distinct species of fracture, very different in their nature and result, have been described under the indiscriminate name of fracture through the neck of the thigh-bone. It is my wish to draw deductions from facts; differences of opinion avail nothing in the advancement of science, unless we can appeal to facts for their support. What I shall say to you on this point will be the result of my observations on per- sona who have been the subjects of these accidents, of numerous examinations of the dead body, and of my experiments on the lower order of animals. These accidents are much more frequent than dislocations ; for whilst, on an average, we have only two dislocations in the year, our wards are seldom without an example of fracture of the upper part of the thigh-bone. These fractures are three in number:—First, where it happens through the neck of the bone entirely within the capsular ligament; secondly, through the neck, at its junction with the trochanter major, by which the trochanter is split, and the upper piece is driven into it; thirdly, a fracture through the trochanter major, beyond its junction with the cervix. Of Fracture vritbin the Ligament.—The leg becomes from one to two inches shorter than the other, for the connexion between the cervix and trochanter being destroyed, the trochanter is drawn up by the muscles, as far as the ligament will permit, and it rests on the edge of the acetabulum, and on the ilium. You can detect the difference in length best, by desiring the patient to lie down on his back, when, by observing the two malleoli, you will readily detect it. Tlie heel generally rests in the hollow between the malleolus internus and tendo achillisof the opposite leg, alihnugh there is some variety in this respect. The retraction is at first