ON HERNIA. il4 puslies before it the fascia transversalis j if there be any obli- quity of the hernia, it will be towards the linea alba : thus you readily distinguish the one from the other; in the one case the liernia will be oblique, in the other directly forwards; should it be slightly oblique, it will be inclined towards the navel; there- fore, this kind of hernia is called direct inguinal hernia. Well, then, there is the hernia in which the intestine pro- trudes into the tunica vaginalis, called the congenital hernia; the tunica vaginalis remains unclosed in some persons after birth, and then this hernia occurs; now you must not think that this hernia is only to be found in children, I have met with it in a person thirty years of age ; 1 have known hernia of the tunica vaginalis take place only four days previous to an opera- tion being performed for it, and this is in a man of thirty years of age. There is a hernia which is found in a cyst of the tunica vagi- nalis ; the encysted hernia j the cyst is formed in a curious way ; here is a specimen (pointing to one on the table) of this kind of hernia. Well, then, gentlemen, if asked what are the different kinds of inguinal hernia, you would answer—first, the oblique, taking the course of the spermatic cord. Secondly, the direct, pro- truding directly out of the abdomen through the external abdo- minal ring. Thirdly, the congential hernia, the hernia in contact with the testicle, or rather within the tunica vaginalis. Fourthly, the encysted hernia of the tunica vaginalis, formed within that coat. Of inguinal hernia, the oblique is the most frequent and with respect to the others they are of less common occurrence. Oblique Inguinal Hernia. As the hernia takes the course of the spermatic cord, it may not be amiss to recall to your minds the direction which the cord takes, though I trust there is not one present who is ignorant of it; if there should be, this kind of hernia will not be understood by him. The spermatic cord emerges, then, from the abdomen, midway between the spine of the ilium and pubis; and in this part it will be found just opposite to the iliac artery ; a hernia protruding through the opening where the spermatic cord come* out, carries the peritoneum with it, and a covering of the fascia transversalis, and when you dissect it, instead of finding peri- toneum, what do you meet with first 1 \\ hy, the fascia trnnm versaiis, which surrounds the spern»atic cord just as it passte