SUPPURATION OF THE LACHRYMAL SAC, 327 of tears from pressure in the nasal canal; this disease terminates fatally, and if removed it returns ; in this complaint the fiow of tears is a very unimportant symptom, compared with the original disease which gives rise to it. But sometimes there is inflamma- tion of the bones of the nose, or periosteum covering them, and the membrane lining the duct, which is tlilckened, and then the duct becomes more or less obstnicted. It notunfrequently takes place in persons of a scrofulous habit, aud those who are sub- ject toaflTections of the coverings of the bones. It is also some- times a consequence of the abuse of mercury. Fistula lachrymalis may be divided info three stages :—1st, where there is only simple distension of the lachrymal sac. 2odly, where there are inflammation and suppuration of the sac. And the third stage is that in which there is a fistulous opening leading from the sac to the cheek. Simple Distension of the Lachrymal Sac. The first symptom which leads the patient, in this stage, to observe any thing amiss with the eye is, that on reading or ex- posing it to the wind, there is a watering of the eye in a shoif time this becomes constant, and then a swelling appears a* tt, inner corner of the eye, arising from distension of the lachrymal sac, the tears collecting in it. These produce irritation ; mucus and purulent matter is secreted; but when the sac protrudes, pressure made on it pushes the tears or mucus either through the puncta, over the face, or down the nose. The complaint sometimes remains in this stage for many years (pressure being occasionally made on the sac to empty it) with only little incon- venience. From the pressure of the distended sac, and obstruc- tion of the nasal duct continuing, or some accidental cause, irri- tation is excited, and the second stage produced. Inflammation and Suppuration of the Lachrymal Sac. This aflTection is attended by a puffiness of the inner corner of the eye, redness of the surrounding skin, which becomes swollen and hard, from the effusion of lymph. Suppuration having commenced in the sac, ulceration comes on, and the matter effects an external opening, by which it is discharged. Now', obstruction, inflammation, and suppuration do not always take place in the course of the ductus ad nasum, from ordinary causes; but the progress of the complaint, when arising from ordinary and from specific causes, will be different. An opening being