434 ON FUNGOID DISEASES OF THE TESTICLE, the patient cannot bear to-walk, as pressure of the testiclt gives him excruciating pain. The moment you touch the part, the patient shrinks from you and complains of dreadful pain, which will last for hours after. The pain passes up the spermatic cord to the loins, entering along the nerves of the thigh. It may be relieved for the moment by medical means, as by giving the blue pill with hyoscyamus, but it generally returns, and will continue for months and even years. The patient lies on his sofa from morning to night, and is whojly unable to pursue any occupation. I once asked a medical man who was labouring under this com- plaint, whether he found it absolutely impossible to exert him- self, and he told me he should have been extremely glad to join the regiment to which he was surgeon,, but he found it utterly impossible. In three cases, as befjre stated, I have been under the necessity of removing the testicle ior this disease. The first case was that of a gentleman who came from Charleston, in South Carolina, with this disease, to try the effect of a change of climate. The part was so excessively tender that he could not bear the slightest handling, and he even dreaded the slightest motion. He confined himself to his chamber for a considerable length of time ; I tried a great variety of means, until I grew tired of him, for I confess gentlemen, that, when a disease does not yield readily, I am apt to take French leave, [4 lavgh.~\ He applied to Mr. Aber- nethy, who attended him for a considerable time, and then to Mr. Pearson, who kept him also for a very great length of time. Being no better for the advice he had received, he came back to me again ; I advised him to go to Rlargate and try the use of the warm bath. His general health was improved by the sea- bathing, but he chose to come home in one of the Margate coaches, and the consequence was, that by the time he reached Blackheath, he was incapable of travelling any farther. He was put to bed at an inn on Blackheath, where he remained a long time before he was able to proceed to London. He at length made up his mind to submit to the operation before return- ing to Charleston, and 1 removed the testicle. He soon recovered from the operation, and I have had the pleasure of hearing, that since his return to Charleston he has taken to himself a wife, who has produced him several children. The second case was that of a gentleman who had been a long time the subject of the complaint, and who, aftc’ submitting to the operation, got per- fectly well. Tlte third ease was that of the surgeon to whom I