OPEllATlON TOR P0PLITE4I, ANEURISM. 177 ting of the ligature round the vessel. I now make the incision, about foui inches in length—(the learned professor proceeded to perform the operation on the dead subject)—which complete- ly expo^s the sartorius muscle ; I then separate its inner edge from the parts with which it is in contact; this lays bare the sheath, and I now find the femoral artery and the vein ex- posed. 7’here is a little septum between the artery and the vein, which you should take care to observe. Introduce the aneurismal needle under the artery, taking 'care to disturb the parts as little as possible. Separate the cellular membrane to the extent of about an inch ; and take care not to include the saphenus nerve, which is a small branch of the anterior crural nerve, in the ligature. If the saphenus nerve should be taken up, you will ascertain it by the irritability which is immediately excited. Having brought the ligature under the vessel with the aneurismal needle, all that remains is, to tie it with what is called a surgeon's knot, which does not slip. In this consists the whole operation. If you should have separated the artery from the sheath to any considerable extent, two ligatures will be neces- sary, which must be applied close to the part where the vessel is connected by the cellular tissue to the sheath j but if you should not have disturbed the artery, one ligature will be suffi- cient. LECTURE XXL Operation for Popliteal Aneurism. As the time of last evening was occupied in performing the ope- ration for popliteal aneurism, I left one or two points unnoticed which it will be important to bear in mind, therefore I will state them now. In the first place, it has been conceived that consi- derable relief might be afforded in cases of aneurism, by medical treatment. It is natural to expect that if by any means the action of the heart and arteries be diminished, the result would be that the aneurismal bag would yield less, and consequently be reduced ; experience does not, however, justify this conclu- sion. I will tell you a case which exemplifies the truth of whaf I state. A gentleman came to town, and was operated on for popliteal aneurism ; he recovered in the usual time, no untoward circumstance occurring during his recovery; in twelve months a/lerwards, he became afflicted with aneurism of the aorta, just