ON FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. 139 bone, and getting into the cellular membrane under the skin, renders the forehead emphysematous. If, on the other hand, the fracture is compound, upon blowing the nose, the air rushes through the wound ; so that, in either case, the nature of the ac- cident may be easily ascertained. Fractures of the skull, if unaccompanied with concussion or compression, as readily unite as fractures of the bones in any part of the body. Here is a curious case (exhibiting a skull) where a circular, or rather oblong, piece of bone was, as you mav perceive, completely separated from this part of the os parietale by the cut of a sabre; and yet, from what you here see, it is evident that it became re-united. However, I will send it round, that you may have an opportunity of examining it for yourselves. Fractures of the cranium, therefore, easily unite. Where; however, large holes are made through the skull, the apertures do not again become filled by ossific matter, but by a tendinous structure formed from the bone and dura mater. The holes made in trephining are supplied in this manner, and not by bone. Also, when in fractures of the skull, wheta the bones are separated to any distance, the interspace will not become filled by bony matter, but remain open as you here see it, (showing a skull which had been fractured, and the broken part widely separated.) Treatment of Fractures of the Skull.—When there is simple frac- ture, unaccompanied with symptoms of injured brain, you must not trephine, neither in compound fracture ; but you must, by the application of adhesive plaister, endeavour to heal the wound in the scalp as quickly as possible. Let your constitutional treat- ment be that of depletion, by means of blood-letting and purga- tives. This plan often removes symptoms of concussion, and even extravasation, which accompany these fractures; and often a few hours will show you that the application of the tre- phine, v/hich you might at first have thought indispensable, is wholly unnecessary. It is wrong, therefore, to be too much in a hurry in these accidents ; for irreparable mischief might arise from your converting a fracture, which was simple, into one that is compound. Wait then, gentlemen, for a while, before you ope- rate in such cases, for the purpose of seeing what effects may be produced by bleeding and purgatives. It not unfrequently hap- pens in these hospitals, upon persons being brought in who have received injuries of the liead, that the dresser in attendance will