381 ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST, frequently attributed to accident, but this is rarely a cause ; now and then it is the result of a blow, or pressure on the part, or in- jury to it in some shape or other, but this is not often the case. Although the disease operates on some particular part of the body, yet it is always preceded by a state of constitution which has*ex- cited it. He who looks at this disease in the light of a local affec- tion only, takes a narrow view of it. A blow or a bruise inflicted on a healthy person would be followed by common inflamma- tion only, which would lead to the removal of the matter effused* But if a blow were received on the breast when the constitution was in a state disposed to the formation of scirrhous tubercle, it would be the cause of a particular action being excited in the part injured, and might lay the foundation d( this complaint; therefore yon see that no blow, no pressure on the part, nor any accidental circumstance whatever will produce scirrhus if the con- stitution be sound. There must be some predisposing cause in the constitution, else it will not occur. Yet the formation of scirrhous tubercle does not entirely depend on constitutional derangement ; there must be also a peculiar action excited in the part, and if there be no specific action, nor any of the scirrhous kind, you will have no appearances of the disease. To show you that it is dependent on these two states, constitutional derange- ment and an altered action in the part, I will mention to you, that if you cut into a scirrhous tubercle, it will ulcerate, and all the horrors of cancer will very soon be the result of the injury ; but suppose you cut round the tumour, in the healthy parts, where the disease has not shown itself, the wound heals, and no Ulceration of the part follows ; and again, after the removal of a scirrhous breast, the wound usually heals very kindly. If there is a disposition in the constitution to the production of the dis- ease in any part, some circumstance exciting a peculiar action in it must occur, and then scirrhous inflammation is produced. TTie disease is made up of a derangement in the constitution, and of a local peculiar action ; it is the effect of a specific action in the part, preceded by a disposition in the constitution to its pro- duction. The scirrhous tubercle is said to be fibrous ; here let me observe that the fibres do not belong to it. They are nothing more than the cellular tissue thickened ; if you were to macerate a scirrhous tumour, you might pick out from the cellular tissue the scirrhous substance, and it would then have the appearance of a honeycomb, from the circumstances of the cancerous matter