72 ACUTE AND CHRONIC ABSCESS, of surgery has been so bad as the manner in which wounds on the neck have been treated. I have seen on one side of the neck large scars from old wounds that had been badly managed, whilst, on the other side, where the treatment had been more skilful, scarcely any vestige of a wound was to be seen. I have, from very early in life (and subsequent experience has proved to me its use), been exceedingly careful in the management of these cases. Aperients, with calomel and rhubarb, should be given ; evaporating lotions should be used. You must be strict as to diet and regimen; for though the patient be debilitated, he must be made still weaker. The best mode to adopt in these cases, is to open the tumours before the skin is much affected, and before a blush has appeared, and scars will in general be prevented. It is desirable, in opening the tumours, to use a very fine knife, for two reasons:—1. A small opening is made ; 2. It does not alarm the person. The knife I always use is the one contained in the eye-case, for cutting up the cataract, the blade one-eighth of an inch wide, and it appears to the patient as a needle. When you press the sides of the wound, take care to squeeze out all the solid flakes of matter to be met with in scrofulous tumours. If this be not attended to, they will at last slough ; but if, on the contrary, you carefully avoid leaving any of that unor- ganized substance, adhesion will take place, and the wound heal up. Every thing in these cases depends on getting rid of the solid matter. Bread poultices, wetted with a sulphate of zinc lotion and spirits of wine, may be used afterwards. Case.—Whilst living at Broad-street, in the City, a lady came to me with a tumour in the side of the neck. I perceived on the opposite side several scars ; I said, “ Will you allow me to try if I can prevent a scar here?” She answered, it was for that purpose she had consulted me. Warm poultices had been used on the previous occasions, with which I would have nothing to do in this, and she got well with scarcely a pimple to be seen. It is of the highest importance, then, to endeavour to prevent those appearances, which, on the exposed parts of the body, produce such painful feelings. In the higher orders of life, particularly, a child with scars and blotches on its neck would be secluded from society. Now, gentlemen, there is a point of great importance to be attended to, viz.—the direction in which you make the opening : always make it transversely, and not in the axis of the neck : for