ON INJURIES OF HIE SPINE. 157 tion, of which he afterwards died. Upon examining tlie bodv there was found an effusion on the membranes of the brain be- tween the tunica arachnoides and the pia mater. The other way in which wounds of the scalp destroy life is by producing inflam- mation of the tendon occipito-frontalis, which extends over the whole surface of the head. This inflammation covers the scalp and face, and assumes an erysipelatous character, but it is not true erysipelas. It has not the vesicles or blisters filled with serum, which commonly attend erysipelas, but it has a tendency rather to suppuration ; and if the constitution has strength to produce this suppuration, it takes place between the tendon and the pericranium. In this way a very extensive abscess is often formed, into which we are obliged to make an incision, in order to discharge the matter, which cannot make its way through the tendon. Extensive disease is thus produced, and the inflamma- tion attending it sometimes destroys life. I have already alluded to a case that occurred recently, in which a person died of erysi- pelas, which followed the removal of an encysted tumour. The tumour had been removed twice before, and to prevent its recur- rence, an incision was made so deep as to lay bare the peri- cranium, and in this operation the tendon had been cut through. There is a great deal of danger in inflammation arising from this cause, and it is on that account that I was anxious to point out to you, in a former lecture, the impropriety of making inci- sions in the scalp merely for the sake of exploring the nature of the injury. An incision in the scalp is often attended with con- siderable hazard and should never be made unless imperious ne- cessity demands it. On iNjuniEs OF THE Spine. Injuries of the spine produce effects similar to those arising from injuries of the head ; the spine being liable to concussion, extravasation, and fracture with depression. Cases of concussion of the spine are not very unfrequent They occur more commonly in the lumbar region than in other parts of the spinal column. A violent blow on the loins pro- duces paralysis of the lower extremities. The paralysis, how- ever, is not complete ; tlie person is unable to support his body, but generally some power of moving his limbs remains. This paralytic state, arising from a blow on the loins, is in general easily removed in the following manner:—You apply cupping- glasses to the part, and take away blo""^ from it several times