ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 132 I must say that I have seen emetics of considerable use; tlie vomiting produced by them does good. 1 have always consider- ed the efforts of nature to relieve herself after injuries salutary and thus the vomiting which is excited in cases of concussion, act, beneficially by relieving the stomach of its contents, as the acci- dent generally happens to persons in a state of intoxication ; and also by propelling the blood to the brain, and thus restoring the powers of life. But the vomiting excited by nature restores the oatient t6 his senses for a short time. He is sometimes relieved, but without continuing so long ; he looks about, and lapses into his former state of aberration of mind, from which he had received merely a temporary relief. When emetics are exhibited as a re- medy in concussion, there is only one thing that I fear from their use; when there is any extravasation of blood in the brain, or any tendency to apoplexy, then they should be employed with caution ; and it is on that account that I wait for three or four hours after the accident before I order them. With respect to the exhibition of cathartics, the bowels should be kept open by calomel purges, followed by the infusion of sen- na and sulphate of magnesia. The calomel should be given about two hours after the accident; and it will be useful to give to the patient at the same time a quantity of mild fluids to drink, as by this means a disposition to purging is kept up, counter-irri- tation, is, as it were, produced, and the blood is drawn from the brain to the intestinal canal. Submuriate of mercury, with le- mon-juice squeezed in water, should be given. Perspiration on the surface of the body is very desirable, and for this purpose antimonials are employed. The pulv. Ipec. Com. (Dover’s Powder) is not generally used to produce moisture of the skin, on account of the opium it contains, as it confounds the judg- ment, and prevents your seeing what are the effects of the opium, and what those of the disease; for opium produces the same disturbance to the brain as takes place in concussion ; there- fore it is not often employed. Counter irritation is of use, but not until other means have been resorted to ; the object of blisters is to subdue the inflammation when other means have failed. I have known a patient, with pain in the head, sickness at the stomach, loss of strength, and throbbing of the carotids, who had been often relieved by blood-letting, for about two hours only after it was done. A person under such circumstances I have known benefited by the application of a blister; on the