100 ON ULCERS. the wound become Iiealed. Constitutional treatment, however, in these cases, must not be forgotten ; for unless you improve the general health, the ulcers will not gel well. You should ad- minister aperients, such as the infusion of senna, Epsom salts, &c. and give alteratives—the Plummer’s pill will be found the best. For females, where great general debility has given rise to the formation of these sores, no medicine can equal in power the carbonate of ammonia. I shall have frequent occasion to allude to this. I generally give it in the following form :— R. Ammon. Garb. 5ss. Aq. Menth. Virid. 3 v ss. Tinct. Cardam. Comp. 353. M. ft. mistura. If any one medicine improves the nervous system when de- ranged more than another, it is this. 1 have often prescribed it for females when in a state of extreme weakness, and its effects are truly astonishing : two table-spoonfuls of the mixture may be taken two or three times a-day. If the poultices have not the ef- fect of exciting the granulating process, you may wash the sores with the liq. calcis and calomel lotion, or gently touch their sur- face with the nitrate or silver. It not unfrequently happens that the skin in various parts of the body gets into a state of superficial ulceration, and without any evident cause. The best applications in these cases are the yellow wash: ungt. hydr. nit., or the ungt. zinci oxydi. The internal use of the oxymuriate of mercury will likewise be found particularly beneficial and salutary; give it in the formula men- tioned to you in a previous lecture, viz., in conjunction with tincture of bark; a small quantity of this mixture should be taken in a little white wine, once or twice daily, according to the age and symptoms. This medicine will be found a very valuable one, when the above-mentioned ulcerations are connected with disease of the mesenteric glands. There is an ulcer often existing on the face, called noli me tangere, which name imports nothing more than that you must not touch it. This disease has never been correctly de- scribed ; the truth is, that it is an ulceration of the glands or follicles of the nose, those small cavities from which you can squeeze sebaceous matter; the ulceration extending deeply, at least even the cartilages of the nose become destroyed; the