410 ' ASCITES OR PERITONEAL DROPST, a great determination of blood to the parU, and an increaied se- cret on of fluid. Upon the employment of medicine and an abandonment ot the pernicious habit of spirit-drinking, this dis- eaie may readily be overcome, and in that respect it difTers widc'ly from ascites arising from enlargement of the viscera, oc- casioning local initation. If the patient will but forego the use ol spirits and live temperately, the disease may be cured; and so may dropsy which is produced by debility, after fevers. \V hen, however, the disease is a consequence of disorganization, your remedies may probably fail, for the malady is then caused by other complaints, over which medicines have no power. Medical Remedies to be employed in Ascites, or DnorsT OF the Abdomen. The medicines which experience has proved to be the most beneficiai in dropsy of the abdomen, are calomel and squills ; one grain of calomel, and three of squills, in a pill, or two grains of blue pill combined with three grains of squills ; one of these should be administered every night, or every other night, and in the day you should give a mixture, composed of from seven to ten grains of carbonate of ammonia, one drachm of spiritus ajtheris nitrosi, twenty drops of tinctura digitalis, and an ounce and a half of mistura camphor®. This medicine, given once or twice a-day, with one of the above pills at night, will often succeed in restoring a person to health, whose constitution may be considered so broken and faulty, that it may be deemed impossible for him ever to regain a sound state of body. Should the dropsy have arisen from the irritation caused by ardent spirits, these must be relinquished, or the complaint will not disappear. There are other medicines which are powerful in producing an absorption of effused water, and carrying it off by the kidneys and by stool; the most active of these is elaterium ; it is indeed, so active, so severe in its effects, so destmctive, that you must never give it to persons of advanced years, nor to those who labour under great. debility. In dropsy, however, which occurs in the middle of life, where there is strength to bear its operation, this medicine will be found a most valuable remedy. Much caution must be exercised when you. are giving it, for it is so violently drastic, that a large dose given at once may prove de- structive to life ; you should, therefore, as it were, feel your way with it, by giving at first small doses, and carefully ascertaining what quantity the patient’s constitution will bear# In the