380 ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. commenced, and the constitution is disordered, it is even then some time before the patient is worn out. Four or five years often elapse before life is destroyed. I have known some curious examples, in which the progress of the disease to the destruction of life has been exceedingly slow. I mentioned to you on a former evening, that, in the lady who broke her thigh by turning in bed, I discovered accidently at the time that she had an ulcerated scir rhus of the breast. On feeling the surrounding part, 1 found a number of scirrhous tubercles, and I said, “ Mariam, how long have you had this disease 7” “Twenty-two years. Sir,” she re- plied. There was a patient in the other hospital once, who had an ulcerated scirrhus of the breast, and it had remained in that state for seventeen years. I am anxious when a patient comes to me with this horrible complaint, in such a state as to afford her no hope from operation, to mention these examples. 1 am anxious to say to her, “ Though your complaint has arrived at that stage in which an operation will be of no avail, and though it is of that nature which does not allow of cure by medical means, yet I can tell you of many instances in which it has been exceedingly slow in its progress, and if you have your life prolonged ten or seven- teen years you will be perhaps content.” This excites a beam of sunshine in the breast, and a gleam of joy on the countenance ; “ Death,” she then says, “ is not so near as I expected,” and her anxiety of mind is removed by the hope which she has of the fatal event being procrastinated. It is right, gentlemen, in hu- manity, to mention these cases to patients labouring under this most distressing disease. It sometimes happens that two or three in the same family are affected with scirrhous tubercle. I have known it occur in three sisters, who were related to a medical man. The first would not undergo an operation, and she died of the disease. The second did undergo the operation of having the scirrhous tu- bercle removed from the breast, but she died of a return of the disease. The third sister is still alive, and the disease in her has not yet proceeded to a fatal termination. It sometimes happens that members of the same family wi.l be attacked with this com- plaint, but this is not invariably the case; but I do state that it is right when you observe the disease in one sister, to direct your attention immediately to prevent, as far as you can, its affects ing the others. Now, gentlemen, as to the causes of this disease: it is very