126 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. of the pulse upon using exertion, and insensibility having imm*. diately followed the injury. The diminution of tiie operations of the mind is often so great in concussion, even where considerable voluntary motion remains that you cannot, even by hallooing as loudly as you are capable get any other answer from your patient, than ‘ eh 1 ’ delivered in a.gruff under-tone. I have known several very curious circum- stances of this kind ;—one case was that of a gentleman who had mgt with an injury of the head, by which concussion had been produced—every endeavour to get a word from him was inef- fectual ; yet, at one period, when the attendants were all absent, he got out of bed, bolted the door, made water, and returned to bed again, in the same manner as though he-had been in perfect health : when the servant went back, he found the door fastened ; all their knocking was unavailing; they were obliged to break it open, and then could not procure from him a single word. Indeed, I do not believe the noise of an earthquake would have succeeded in rousing him from his lethargy; yet he could get out of bed, pass his urine, and adopt his ordinary habit of delicacy, by bolting the door. I have caught a man, when labouring under the effects of concussion, with his feet in a chamber-pot; and by the action of his hands, it was evident that he was tryung. to throw water over his legs; upon the servant going into the room of the same individual some days after, he was found to be attempting to shave himself, and having no lather, he substituted a spot of spermaceti ointment, which he had brushed all over his face. I suppose you have all heard of the extraordinary change which the memory sometimes undergoes from the effects of concussion. The first story of this kind that I ever heard was from Mr. Cline. A man was taken to Guy’s, in a state of insen- sibility, in which condition he remained for some time, but at length recovered; and when he did so, no person in the hospital could understand his language ; a milk-woman hap- pening to go into the ward one day, heard him, and discovered that he was speaking AVelch ; he told her that he knew English well before the accident, but after it all knowledge of that lan- guage was obliterated from his tnind. It had been recently ac- quired ; the impression was less strong, and consequently the more easily effaced.