ON HERNIA. 253 lived a week after the operation, and then died from want of nu- trition. It was the small intestine which burst, and the faeces escaping by the orifice, there was no opportunity for such a de- gree of lacteal absorption as was necessary for the support of his constitution, and lie died from irritation and inanition. I shall now give you an account of a case, and describe to vou an operation which is not difficult, and which may be adopted with safety to the patient in these cases. After the lecture, one evening, Mr. Birch’s dresser came to me and said, “ Sir, there is a patient with a very large hernia which is strangulated ; Mr Birch does not like to come down to the hospital at such an hour, and I should be glad if you would undertake it.” I went immediately ; the patient was brought into the operating theatre, and a most for4nidable hernia it was. 1 said to the gentlemen in the theatre, if I operate in the usual manner on this hernia, I know what will be the result; I shall either burst the intestine in attempting to return it, or I shall not be able to return it at all: I will not open the hernial sac. The man was placed on the table, and I operated upon him in the following manner : — I made an incision to the extent of three inches in the upper part of the hernia, an inch and a half above the abdominal ring, and an inch and a half below it, believing that I should find the stricture at the abdominal ring, as it was a large hernia, or not more than an inch above the ring. This incision exposed the tendon of the external oblique, above the abdominal ring, and the fascia of the cord, or superficial fascia, which is derived from the tendon of the external oblique below the ring. Having made this incision, and laid bare the fascia of the cord, I made a small opening to the extent of about an inch below the abdominal ring, and put a director into it. Having insinuated the director between the fascia of the cord and the cremaster, I ^mssed it under the abdominal ring ; and carrying a probe-pointed bis- toury upon this director, I divided the ring to the extent of an inch. I then put my hands upon each side of this im- mense swelling; and as soon as I did so, I had the pleasure of hearing the gurgling noise, which every surgeon acquainted with this subject knows to be the token of the contents of the intestine passing into the abdomen: a portion of the intestines was returned into the cavity of the abdomen, but all