ON THE TYING OF ARTERIES. 190 fessor exhibited the aorta, which he tied,) in which you see a coagulum above and below the spot where the ligature was applied, sealing the extremities of the artery. Now, gentlemen, if 1 should perform this operation again, the only difference that I would make, would be to cut the ligature close to the vessel, where it should take its chance, either to become encysted or absorbed. I commenced the incision in this operation in the lined alba, two inches above the umbilicus, and carried it to the same distance, taking care, in my descent below, to avoid the umbilicus, by giving it a semilunar turn or curve. I was astonished to find with what ease I could pass my finger down to the artery. How- ever great the apparent difficulty of performing this operation, there was in reality none. The principal danger appeared to arise from the irritation produced in the intestines by the ligature, and that is the reason why I should cut the ligature close to the vessel. Time will show us whether this operation will be suc- cessful or not. I know, for my own part, that I would not hesitate to have my own aorta tied, if it would save ray life for only forty hours. Tying the Subclavian AnxERY. The middle of your incision should be opposite to the external jugular vein, and centre of the clavicle. Speaking anatomically, the view of the parts exposed in this operation may be thus de- scribed (Sir Astley exhibited them) : here you see the omo- liyoideus muscle crossing obliquely above the clavicle, below the sterno-cleido-mastoideus upon the inner side, and the jugular vein passing immediately opposite to the centre of the opening. Mr. Key informs me that in the operation which he performed at the other hospital for securing this vessel, that it was much facilitated by a free division of the clavicular portion of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, and that after having done so, he was enabled, with a common aneurismal needle, to introduce the ligature under the vessel. Soon after commencing this opera- tion, you meet with branches of nerves from the axillary plexus —you must carefully avoid including these in the ligature ; for It would be a fatal error if you were to tie them. The scalenus anticus being the boundary of the artery on the inner side, you cut down for the purpose of finding its inner edge ; this you will find a useful guide. I have lately heard a person say, but do not know npon what authority, that the operak'jn for tying the subclavian artery has