38 COUNTER-inillTATION IK IKI MMMATIOK. LECTURE VI. CoUNTEn-InRITATION IN INFLAMMATION. In the acute, as has already been explained to you, our object is to diminish vascular action ; but in the chronic we endeavour to increase it. Thus, in long-continued discharges, arising from relaxation, we employ stimulating lotions, for the purpose of re- storing to the vessels their healthy power of contraction. Again, in sluggish, indolent ulcers, it is absolutely necessary to excite action; for which purpose we employ washes, either composed of calomel and lime water, or the hydr. oxymur. and lime water; the cupri sulphas is also an admirable remedy in these indolent sores. Gonorrhoea, as I have already shown to you, gives us an excellent illustration of the difference between acute inflammation and chronic, and the principles upon which your opposite treatment must be founded to insure a successful result. At first, you diminish strength and action, and then stimulate, for the purpose of restoring them. Whenever you apply stimulating lotions to indolent ulcers, you should always cover the parts with oiled silk, to prevent eva- poration, by which cold would be produced, and the design with which it was applied frustrated. Your object here is to obtain heat and action ; as oiled silk obstructs evaporation, it very ma- terially contributes to create these ; and, as the perspiration as well as the vapour from lotions condenses upon the inner sur- face of the oiled silk, it of course succeeds in keeping the part moist; and this is a very great advantage, as it enables you to remove your applications without disturbing the new skin. Now, where this covering is not used, the linen over the wound be- comes dry, adheres to the newly-formed skin, and, consequently, when you take away one, the other must come with it: in this manner the restorative efforte of nature for twenty-four hours will often be defeated in a single minute. The next method of treatment which we shall mention is that of counter-irritation. The power of this remedy is very great, and its advantages numerous ; but the chief benefit that results from its employment arises from its drawing off the blood from the neighbouring in- flamed parts, whereby it checks the course of disease in import- ant organs: thus, a blister at the nape of the neck, if early