TREATMENT OF GANGRENE. 118 have since learned. The application of the syringe to the sto- mach, in cases of poisoning, is due to a gentleman whose name I shall presently mention. Mr. Reed’s syringe is a new contri- vance, which has been formed upon a principle in hydraulics (first applied, I believe, by Mr. Bramah) and which is capable of increasing the force of the instrument to the greatest possible degree. To give you an idea of its force : if I were to stand on a piece of wood, and the wood were surrounded by any thing which would prevent the escape of the water, the force of the syringe is capable of raising me from the ground. I do not wish to commit myself by any observations on a subject with which I do not pretend to be particularly conversant; but I brieve, gentle- men, the principle is this : When a fluid contained in a vessel, ha- ving a large diameter, is thrown into one of very small diameter, the result is, an exceedingly great accumulation of force. Thus we see that piles which are driven into the beds of rivers, by the force of immense weights acting upon them, are raised by the admission of a very small quantity of water under them, upon the principle which I have just stated. Mr. Reed’s syringe is formed upon this principle, and the valves are besides different from any which had been previously employed in similar instru- ments. With respect to the medical application of the syringe, however, for the purpose of removing poisons from the stomach, we are indebted for it to Mr. Jukes, a surgeon at Pimlico, wno published an account of it in the Medical and Physical Journal for November, 1822, p. 285; and a further account in the same Journal for June, 1823. Mr. Jukes originally employed a gum- elastic bottle to be applied to the tube : but the improvement of a syringe was suggested by Mr. Bush, of Frorae. LECTURE XV. Treatment of GANonENE. In the last lecture we defined gangrene as a partial death; wn described to you the symptoms which attended it, when it was the result of high and active inflammation, and when it was the result of a low degree of heat. We shall now proceed to consider the treatment which is usually employed to prevent gangrene, and to arrest the slough- ing process. You must endeavour to soothe the parts by the ap- plication of leeches, with a view of checking the excess of action. i