276 ON INFLAMMATION OF THE CONJUNCTIVA, membrane may lead to inflammatioD of the deeper-seated tunics of the globe of the eye j suppuration may be induced, the organ may at length become permanently disorganized, and the sight of the eye irretrievably lost. The consequences of inflammation of this membrane are very similar to those of inflammation in other parts of the body. It sometimes terminates in effusion, the serum or blood under the conjunctiva rising in a roll above the transparent cornea. It sometimes produces the adhesive pro- cess ; and when it terminates in this manner the adhesive matter is deposited under the conjunctiva, which covers the transparent cornea, and is recognized by a hazy appearance at the part. The adhesion is various, both in its extent a-d quan- tity ; it is sometimes so slight as only to produce a simple clouded appearance over a certain part of the cornea, which is technically called nebula j it is at other times more conside- rable in quantity, and produces an appearance of considerable opacity in the cornea, which is usually called albugo, or leu- coma. The deposit of matter is sometimes confined to a sim- ple speck, and is occasionally spread more or less over the whole surface of the cornea, so as to interrupt or intercept vision altogether. The inflammation sometimes proceeds to the suppu- rative process ; indeed the tunica conjunctiva appears to be of a nature very analogous to the mucous membranes of the body, and like these, is exceedingly prone to the suppurative stage of in- flammation. The suppuration generally proceeds from the sur- face of the conjunctiva, as from the surface of any mucous mem- brane in a state of inflammation. In other instances, the forma- tion of pus is circumscribed ; a deposit of lymph takes place where the conjunctiva covers the cornea, or in its immediate vi- cinity, and a little abscess or pustule arises from the centre. Ulceration is also sometimes produced: this usually occurs in the cornea, in consequence of laying open this pustule, probably from the denudation or exposure of the cornea. Lastly, slough- ing and mortification of the cornea is not an uncommon effect of a high degree of suppurative inflammation. The same conse- quences, therefore, occasionally arise from inflammation of the conjunctiva as from inflcimmation in other parts of the body ; namely, effusion, adhesion, suppuration, ulceration, and mortifi- cation. As the most serious consequences, therefore, often fol- low from simple inflammation of this membrane, let us consider the mode of treatment which we ought, under such circum- stances, to pursue.