SCROFULOUS GLANDS OF THE NECK. 59S tion is very imperfect; the pus has not the true character of purulent secretion; it is composed of a curd-like matter, and resembles pus mixed with serum. These, then, are the appear- ances of the suppurative stage. Suppuration proceeds very slowly. The skin, at first, has a blush of inflammation on it, then becomes of a livid or purple hue. It frequently happens that when the skin is in this state, a long time elapses before it gives way. When the skin, however, breaks, it generally sepa- rates to a considerable extent. The reason why scars in the neck are ao large is, that the vitality of a large portion of the skin has .I'een destroyed from the pressure of the pus; it then assumes a livid appearance, and, when it gives way, sloughs to a considera- ble extent. The ulcerative, process proceeds slowly, compared with ulceration in other complaints. The interior of a suppura- tive gland very rarely sloughs; but the matter that is effused separates with the pus. Such is the history of au enlarged absorbent gland, affected with scrofulous disease, the various changes which it undergoes, and the appearances which those changes present in their different stages. Death is sometimes produced by the enlargement of the absorbent glands of the neck. I will relate to you three instances which more particularly strike my mind. In one case, the glands covered the jugular vein. I attended the case with a respectable practitioner in the city. The patient had frequent rigors, and a great deal of constitutional irritation; at the time I saw him his life was evidently in imminent danger, and in a few days after he died. We found, on dissection, that the absorbent glands were adhering to the jugular vein, and that the matter had escaped into it, which was the cause of the great constitutional irritation under which he laboured a short time previous to his death. The second way in which an enlargement of the glands of the neck may give rise to death, is by pressure on the veins producing apoplexy. I saw a case of this kind in a lad of sixteen or seventeen years of age. The glands were en- larged so as to prouB on the veins of the neck, and the boy died apoplectic.—The third case which I shall mention, is one where an enlarged gland suppurated into the larynx, and produced suffocation. It occurred in a boy who had received an injury of the head, which was followed by enlargement of the absorbent glands of the neck. They went into a suppurative state, and the pus discharged itself into the trachea, and produced death by