302 ON CATAUACT. Glaucoma. In this complaint tlie vitreous humour becomes altered in tex- ture, more dense, and presents a sea-green hue, and the pupil is di- lated. This disease has often been mistaken for cataract, and a person affected wit a it is frequently supposed to have a cataract in its incipient stage. On examining the eye minutely, this greenish appearance may tie observed lobe behind the crystalline lens, and posterior to the seat of the cataract; it may be how- ever,, mistaken for many diseases, and has a greater resemblance to cataract than any other. Glaucoma remains without any change by which it may be distinguished from fungus of the eye, of which I shall speak to you in another lecture. The diagnosis is not difficult. Having mentioned the affections of the aqueous and vitreous humours, I come next to consider the different species of cataract. CATAnACT. By cataract, is meant an opacity of the crystalline lens, or its capsule, the cataract depending on a morbid secretion of the li- quor morgagni being very rare: this is an exception, but the ordinary definition is the one I have just given. This complaint seems to have been understood by Hippocrates ; but the notions of Galen and those who followed him, respecing cataract, were very confused; and it was not till the end of the 17th, or begin- ning of the 18th century, that the nature of this disease began to be understood, when Mery and Maitre-.Tean, and others, give fair accounts of this complaint. The sj'mptoms of cataract are un- equivocal, and may be easily recognised. At first there is always defect of vision, and the patient sees things as through a mist, and requires a strong light to see them plainly ; this symptom changes during the progress of the complaint, the patient being able ta see belter in a moderate than a strong light, and then a speck, or opa- city in tile lens or capsule, may be distinctly observed ; it is get neraliy in tiie centre of the pupil, and at the situation of the lens ; this gradually enlarges, and in proportion as the opacity increases, the sight becomes more dim, and the capability of discerning ob- jects diminisiies. In the progress of the cataract, the patient can see better in a faint than in a strong light; and this is easily ex- plained, because in the faint light the iris dilates, and the rays of light are transmitted through the circumference of the crystalline lens, which is not yet obscured. But you see these symptoms may