319 OPERATION FOR ARTIFICIAL PUPIL. the cataract in its place. Where there are no contra-indicationi to deter us from performing the operation for e.Ktraction, it is undoubtedly the most effectual operation, as it completely re- moves the disease; but then it requires much more skill an\ dexterity than the operation of depression ; and the want sufficient skill is more likely to prove injurious to the patient The operation for depression is e.xtiemely easy, but it lias its disadvantages. Not unfrequeutly, the cataract rises again, and it will be necessary to repeat the operation. If the cataract be depressed on the retina, the patient will experience constant pain, which sometimes terminates in amaurosis. It sometimes happens after the operation for couching, that the patient is seized with vomiting, accompanied with acute pain. This has been supposed to be the consequence of wounding the ciliary nerves. I know not whether this opinion is well founded, but it commonly happens when the operation is followed by vomiting that the cataract rises again. No judicious surgeon will, indis- criminately, prefer one mode of operation to another : his opi- nion must be decided by the nature of each particular case. In general, where the nature of the cataract admits of it, the opera- tion for solution is preferable. In cases where the operation for extraction is not contra-indicated, it will be preferable to that of depression, if the surgeon has had sufficient opportunities of ac- quiring dexterity; but if he has not been much in the habit of performing the operation, I should recommend as the safer, though less effectual course, the operation for depression. I shall here describe the Operation for Artificial Pupil. Where, from some defect of the cornea'or iris, or the pans connected with them, there is no passage for the rays of light, the operation for artificial pupil is required, which consists in making a section with a cutting needle, through the iris, which, by the elasticity of its fibres, separates the edges, and makes a passage for the rays of light. Cheselden was the first surgeon who performed this. There are three modes of performing the operation :—1st, by a simple incision of the iris, technically called coTotomia ; 2ndly, where a portion of the iris is cut away which operation b called correctomia ; 3dly, where the iris is turned away from its attachment to the ciliary ligament, which IS called cardealysia. Ilie simple incision of the iris is seldom resorted to ; the operation of excision of a part of the iris was