27 TR'E-'iTMt-XT or INFLAMMATION. show that even a cupped state of the blood and buffiness conjoined are not sufficient evidence to warrant a conclusion that venesec- tion may.be repeated. A man at Guy’s Hospital, in the last stage of scurvy, and whose blood-vessels were so weak that a very slight pressure upon the skin produced ecchymosis—whose gums bled frequently, and whose pulse was exceedingly feeble and quick—had taken from his axm, at my request, a very small quan- tity of blood, by way of experiment; after standing for a few hours, it became not only buffy, but exceedingly cupped. When, therefore, you employ bleeding, it may be of importance to you to keep this experiment in your remembrance. The quantity of blood which should be drawn at a time, in in- flammation, must depend entirely on the severity of the complaint. The proportion of blood, compared with the solids, which can be drawn from an animal before it dies, is about one pound to six- teen. I ascertained this fact in the following manner ;—I took a small dog, weighing fourteen pounds, and opened his jugular vein, in this way eleven ounces were discharged, when the dog fainted. J then opened the carotid artery, and from this source obtained three ounces more. Thus fourteen ounces of blood were drawn from a dog weighing fourteen pounds j so that one ounce of blood to sixteen ounces of the solids is about the correct proportion. When yon bleed to relieve inflammation, the blood should be abstracted as rapidly as possible ; therefore, the orifice made into the vessel should be of considerable size ; for, if it be allowed to run slowly, the vessels have time to accommodate themselves to the diminished volume of circulating fluid : so that the system scarcely receives any shock when blood is abstracted in this gra- dual manner. The grand object, indeed, is to produce fainting : to effect which, blood must be suddenly withdrawn. Vou may bleed so, as to produce constitutional, and local effects at the same time. A patient of Mr. Foster’s in Guy's Hospital, who had a concussion of the brain, was bled in the external jugu- lar vein ; immediately after the operation, the pain of the head and the irritable fever disappeared. When you have accidents brought to you which will require a long time for their recovery, you must be exceedingly careful how you take away blood from the general system, but must adopt in these cases local depletion; for if, as ] have before re- marked, you Lake away from the constitution too much of the vital fluid, natuie will be unable to execute the usual processes for the