307 ON CAUSES OF cataract. in the head, and the motions of the iris are free, and light can be distinguished ; then you may operate, and with the chance of success, as there are no evident reasons against it. For by the first circumstance you see that the vision has been impaired in consequence of the opacity of the lens ; by the second that there has been no disorganizing inflammation in the eye, or that the brain and origin of the optic nerves have not been affect- ed ; by the third, that the retina is sound ; and by the fourth, if the opacity of the lens be removed, that the retina will be in a state to receive the impression of external objects. But these signs are not so certain as they might appear, for the iris might act, and yet amaurosis exist: and if one eye were not closed, the motions of the iris of the other might be prevented, by sympathy from the other. Thus it appears that the state of the iris does not always determine the existence of amaurosis. When there is cataract, the operation roust be regulated by taking all the cir- cumstances into consideration ; by the figure of the cataract: whether there are adhesions of the iris to the capsule of the crystalline lens ; and especially by the patient being able to distinguish objects, and light from darkness ; but though this is a favourable symptom, yet persons may have amaurosis, and be able to distinguish day from night, and even objects from one another. On the whole, it is a very favourable symptom, and when pre- sent, the operation may be performed. In general, when the case is doubtful, you had better perform the operation, of course taking care to inform the patient of the state of the case ; the pain is not great, and you will not leave the patient in a worse state than before the operation. It would be extremely culpable for any one to operate where it was quite apparent that no relief could be afforded ; and yet I am sorry to say, that I have known in- dividuals operate where there was no more chance of doing good than if the eye had been scooped out of the head—such men are unprincipled, and would undertake any thing for the purpose of gain. Another question to be determined on is, w hether the operation should be performed if one eye only is affected ? The answer appears to be plain, yet there are some who contend that the ope- ration should be resorted to when there is cataract in one eye only, and their principal reason is this; they say, it is known that a sympathy exists between the two eyes, and that if a morbid action is set up in one, it will be excited sympathetically in the other.