203 ON THE CURE OF HYDROCELE rts oeing a bland fluid, produced most horrible inflainmation. The tunica viginalis suppuintcd, and when an incision was made to discharge the matter, the milk came out in curds, and a great quantity of pus had been produco'l. Be upon your guard, therefore, against making experiments of this kind. When yon inject for hydrocele, you should place the patient in a recumbent posture, which will enable you to perform the operation more steadily. Before you introduce the trocar and canula, make it a rule to squeeze the scrotum and tunica va- ginalis, so as to make the part where the fluid is most distinct very tense; then introduce the trocar and canula obliquely, in the same manner as in the palliative mode of treatment. Having passed the trocar and canula into the tunica vaginalis, withdraw the trocar, and push the canula alone carefully up- wards, so as to prevent any injury to the testicles or spermatic cord. You should nip the tunica vaginalis round the canula, to guard aigainst the instrument being diverted, and thus throw- ing a portion of the fluid into the cellular tissue. Having taken this precaution, you are gradually to throw up the injec- tion, turn the stop-cock, so as to confine it in the tunica vagi- nalis, and move the scrotum from side to side, so that the fluid may reach every part of the surface. The fluid should be suflFered to remain from about four or five minutes. While it remains in the tunica vaginalis, the patient will complain of a ■good deal of pain ; he will first feel as if the testicle were squeezed ; he will then feel the pain running along the course of the spermatic cord at the spinal process of the ilium, and at the loins where the spermatic plexus of nerves arises, and lastly, at the neck of the bladder, in the course of, the vas derens. The pain will be greater or less in proportion as the patient is more or less irritable. It is to be observed, however, that the degree of subsequent inflammation is generally in the inverse ratio of the pain suffered at the time of the injection. If a man lies tran- quilly on the table, and tells you that he does not feel much pain, he will in general have a considerable degree of inflam- mation the next day. On the other hand, where much pain is felt, it is generally the effect of nervous irritability, and little inflammation follows it. I have been under the necessity of bleeding and giving large quantities of opium to a patient in consequence of the severitv of the pain produced by injection, and yet no inflammation was pro-