664 ON COMPOUND FRACTURES. and to detail their treatment under common and under adverse circumstances. A Compound Fracture is that in which there is an external wound communicating with the broken extremities of the bone. Large wounds may occur at the same time with fractures, but unless these communicate with the bone, they are not called compound fractures. The immediate result of the fracture is the escape of the extravasated blood, which, in simple fracture, becomes absorbed. The effect this injury produces on the con- stitution is to set up a violent re-action, so as to bring about a restoration of the injured part. The degree of this effort of the system will very much depend on the manner in which the accident is treated; and I should say, that it was an important injury, or otherwise, according to the plan of treatment which is pursued. For if you are careful in the management of the case, you may procure adhesion of the external wound, and thus re- duce the accident to the state of a simple fracture. The mode of union is ultimately the same; but in one kind of injury ossihc matter is deposited in cartilage uithmii a suppurative pro- cess, and in the other with it. If you do not procure an union by adhesion, it is brought about by granulation, and in the following way:—The blood, which is at first poured out in consequence of the division of the vessels of the medullary membrane and the periosteum, instead of being confined in the surrounding structures passes off by the e.xternal wound; yet it must be re- membered that this effused blood has no share in producing union of the ends of the bone, as it becomes, after a few days, entirely absorbed. Ne.xt, there is a fluid poured out between the periosteum and the bone, which separates the periosteum from the surface of the bone for about an inch or an inch and a half beyond the place where the bone is fractured. This fluid does not cause a laceration of the vessels of the periosteum, but rather an elongation of them. Now here is the difference between the simple and compound fracture; for, in the former, the fluid, after accumulating for a day or two, becomes in a great measure taken up by the absorbents, and adhesive matter is poured out in its stead ; but in the hatter, a suppurative process is established, and granulations arise from the broken surfaces. In these granulations cartilage becomes deposited, and continues to be formed for some time; the discharge of pus gradually dimi- nishes, and in compound fracture cartilage continues to be formetl until about the twentieth day. It is deposited between the inter-