ON THE OPERATION FOR DEPRESSION. SOD the point, and has also a concavity; it is sufficiently strong to depress the lens. The next is Beer’s spear-pointed needle ; it is narrow at the neck. I give the preference myself to this instru- ment : a surgeon is not likely to wound the ciliary ligaments or processess with it. The needle is the only instrument required ; some use a speculum, but excepting in children, this will not be of much use. Previous to the operation, very little preparation will be necessary ; of course you ascertain whether the patient is in good health, see that the bowels are regular, and that all the functions are properly performed. We next come to the mode of performing the operation. The light, and the position of the patient and operator, are extremely important and all to be attended to. The light should be clear, distinct, and full, but not vivid, and it should not fall on the centre of the eye of the patient but laterally, else it would produce a dazzling, and un- steadiness of the organ. The patient should be placed on a low seal with a high back, and the head resting against it, or the body of an assistant. The operator should be on a high stool, or at least of sufficient height to enable him to put one foot on it, and rest his elbow on the knee opposite to the eye to be couched. Having thus prepared himself, the operator holds the instrument between the thumb and fore-finger, the assistant passing his fore-finger round the head of the patient, raises the upper lid by a fold of skin, and presses it gently against the superciliary ridge. The patient is now directed to look inwards towards the nose, and the operator resting his little finger on the upper part of the chin of the patient, penetrates the sclerotic coat about a line and a half from the junction of the transparent with the opaque cornea, and a line below the transverse diameter of the eye. In the first place, the needle is introduced here, just where the retina terminates, and the ciliary ligament commences, so that these shall be avoided ; and 2dly, For the purpose of not wounding the ciliary artery, as it goes along the middle of the external convexity of the eye-ball, between the sclerotic and choroid coat. In using Beer’s needle, it is introduced with the edge laterally, and its suiface upwards and downwards, and directed towards the middle of the globe of the eye. It must be moved slightly between the fingers ; a piece of ivory or brass at tlie handle, showing the disposition of the cutting edges, and then the point carrietl inwards parallel to the iris, and so as to cover tlie posterior chamber; the imstrument will be now visible