262 ON HERNIA. turned over Poupart’s ligament; so that the lower part of the hernia is doubled on the upper part and its mouth is just opposite the fundis or basis. LECTURE XXXI, OrERATiON FOR Femoral Hernia. At the conclusion of the last lecture, I described to you the parts connected with femoral* hernia, and the course in which it descends; I shall now resume femoral hernia, show the ope* ration for it, and conclude the subject of hernia. When the peritoneum which covers the femoral hernia is pro- truded, it descends on the inside of the femoral vein, and is re- ceived on the inside of the crural sheath. Before the hernia protrudes, it elongates the sheath, which forms a covering for it. When femoral hernia protrudes, it descends on the inside of the epigastric artery; and there is only the danger of wounding this vessel in the operation of cutting upwards and outwards ; recol- lect, then, that the epigastric artery is to the iliac side of the hernia. In the male subject, the spermatic artery crosses on the fore pait of the tumour, but at such a distance from the place where the stricture is situated, that there is little danger of ■wounding it in the operation for femoral hernia. A man must be very badly acquainted with the nature of the parts, or the principle of the operation, to carry his incision so high up ; there is no necessity for it; a very slight touch of the stricture with the knife, will be quite sufficient to allow of the return of the parts. Remember, however, that on the fore part of the tumour, above Poupart’s ligament, covered in the inguinal canal, is the spermatic artery, which ought never to be in danger of being wounded. On the inner side is situated Gimbernat’s ligament; on the outer side are the femoral vessels ; there is also situated near the mouth of the hernial sac, but to the outer side, the epigastric artery. The part through which femoral hernia protrudes is the opening left in tho fascia lata, to give passage to the absorbent vessels, and the vena saphena. The femoral hernia is not behind this fascia, but protrudes through the opening, and is then situated on its fore part; the crural sheath is carried before it, becomes elongated, and always forms a bag for the hernia. The appearances of femoral hernia are such as to require con- siderable knowledge to discriminate them from those presented