OK SYMPATHETIC BUBO AND GLEET. 537 Shocked at such an occurrence, I said, “ How could you think of acting: in such a manner?” “ Why, sir, for fourteen months prior to my marriage, I had a gonorrhoea; I made various attempts to get rid of it, and had a variety of advice about it, but a yel- low discharge always continued. I was told by every body that it was not infectious, and not till after such repeated assurances did I get married ; the consequence, however is, that my wife has a severe pain m making water, and a copious discharge. I visited her, and found her in this state ; she was sometime under treatment before she recovered. From what I have seen, I do hold, that a medical man is not warranted in saying that a dis- charge of agleety kind is not infectious. If the discharge is from a stricture, it does not produce infection. If the discharge is from an abscess in one of the lacunm, it may be always known by its being absent for a week or more, and then flowing profusely, but not so in gonorrhoea : the discharge is generally suspended for some time, in an abscess of one of the lacunae, and then returns, which is not the case in a clap ; and the matter from an abscess of the lacunae is not infectious, while the discharge which begins a gonorrhoea, and terminates in a gleet, never loses its power of producing infection. Women of the town, who frequently have a gleet on them, would not perhaps communicate a gonorrhoea to a debauchee; but let a man fresh from the country have inter- course with a woman under such circumstances, and he would immediately have a clap. I need not tell you what gleet is. The discharge is generally transparent at first, afterwards yellow, and, if there be much ex- citement, green. If the excitement be very considerable, the dis- charge will be tinged with blood. Gleet is rendered purulent and bloody from excesses of different kinds. In this state, if you examine the urethra after death, you will find the follorving ap- pearances : inflammation extending for two or three inches down the urethra, and if the urethra be laid open within twenty-four hours, it will be quite florid as far as the scat of the gleet, but quite pale in the other part. The discharge does not proceed from the vesiculae seminales, or Cowper’s gland, or the prostate, but the lacun* ; and what you hear alrout seminal weakness, is nothing but folly and absurdity ; there is no truth at all in it. The discharge commonly called gleet, proceeds from the lacunae of the urethra. A discharge now and then comes from the vesi- cula: seminales, through the urethra : when a person has a co.uivo