DISEASES OF THE HIP JOINT. 608 The cause of this disease is, in general, too much exertion ; loo long a walk, for instance, for the strength of the patient, which produces inflammation of the synovial surface. Treatment of Diseases of the llip Joint.—With respect to the treatment of this disease, you will observe during the inflamma- tory stages, the same plan which I have recommended to you in the treatment of scrofulous complaints. It may be observed, generally, that if you do not cure a case of diseased hip-joint in a few weeks, from six to ten weeks, for instance, you will not succeed at all. In the first place, the recumbent posture, and as Imch rest as possible, should be strictly enjoinei If there is Jiuch pain, leeches should be applied; evaporating lotions should also be employed in the first few days. If you do not find the inflammation yield in a few days, it will be right to put a large blister over the part, and to keep it open with the unguentum sabinae for a considerable length of time. The surface kept open with the savine ointment should not exceed the size of a crown piece, as you might otherwise produce too much irritation, and 4o more harm than good. Issues and setons are more applied Oere than in other diseases of the joints. It is better to regulate he degree of irritation in this way, than to endeavour to produce effects by violent means, which, by exciting fever, might only be adding fuel to the flame. With respect to the treatment of abscesses, it is right in all diseases of joints, and especially in diseases of the hip-joint, to postpone the opening of them as long as you can; unless the abscess is exceedingly large, it is best not to open it at all. The reason of this is, that if you open the abscess early, you expose the cavity of the joint to ir- ritation ; whereas, if you delay the opening of it, you suffer the abscess to make its passage to a considerable distance from the joint, so that the opening of it will not be liable to excite much irritation in the cavity of the joint. The irritation will be very slight if you delay the opening, but, if you make it early, the effect will be just the same as if you were to make an incision into the joint. Give time for nature to perform her task, and to fill the joint itself with adhesive matter, as the abscess extends down the limb to a great distance from the joint. I have made up my mind most decidedly on this point, having gain and again had an opportunity of contrasting both modes of practice. When the disease is protracted, it would be cruel and injurious to the child to keep it in a state of perfect rest, and it should therefore be allowed to use a crutch. This will prevent the