‘1.84 ON POISONS. a poinlei with this disease ; he behaved as well as usual in the field ; would stand, back, and bring the game; but, after the sporting was over, he would bite any animal that came near him, and at length ran entirely away. Upon examining dogs that have died of this disease, there has been a slight inflammation observed upon the internal surface of the stomach and pharynx, a sort of efflorescence; and all human beings who have died with this disease have been said to have had, more or less, a similar appearance. A few words on the Treatment of Hydrophobia.—The best mode that can be adopted is, immediately after the part has been bitten, to cut it out; you should first ascertain at what depth the teeth have entered, by means of a probe, and then take care to excise a sufficient quantity, and leave no part of the injured integument, cellular membrane, or muscle, to remain. If persons should object to the use of the knife—foolishly object to have the poi- soned part cut away—I advise you in such cases to let sink into the wound a small piece of the potassa fusa ; this will readily dis- solve, and, becoming liquid, its cauterizing influence will be com- municated to each part of the wound, and thus destroy the influ- ence of the poison. The best plan decidedly is the immediate ex- cision of the part, and, where it has been done directly after the injury, it has, I believe, in every instance, been successful in pre- venting the disease; if this practice should be opposed, the next best plan is the employment of the potassa fusa: I am speaking of those means, you will observe, as preventives j but, as for medical remedies, when the symptoms of hydrophobia have once appeared. Jam not acquainted with any. Every medicine, I believe, has been tried over and over again, and all have been found alike ineffec- tual 1 the only thing in the way of medicine that I think calcu- lated to do good, is that which has lately been adopted in France, viz., the injection of warm water into the veins. To make the employment of the remedy .=afe, however, and to prevent pressure on the brain, the same quantity of blood as the water to be in- jected should be previously abstracted. With this precaution, £ tliink the remedy a very proper and feasible one. I may here remark, that the blood need not be abstracted before the injec- tion of the water, but may be let flow from one vein while the water is thrown m at another, and this ■probably would be the better plan.