ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. S76 the same state, and by pressure on the thoracic duct they cause an interruption to the process of absorption ; chyle is prevented from being transmitted into the blood, and thus it is that the ap. petite is sometimes voracious, whilst the patient is rapidly wast- ing. But for the chest:—You find hydrothorax on the side af- fected, and the absorbent vessels on the pleura, corresponding to the scirrhous breast, are in a diseased state, and small white spots, like pins' heads, will also be seen. I ought to mention, that you should never operate in this complaint when dyspnoea is present; for I have known patients who have come to our hospital, and have been operated on for this disease when they have had this symptom, and who have died in two or three days after the ope- ration ; on examination, water has been found in the chest, and tubercles on the pleura. Now and then you find, on the pleura covering the lungs, tubercles on the surface opposite to the dis- eased breast, and having the true scirrhous character. But the liver is most frequently diseased : on the right lobe there are in general tubercles ; the glands of the axilla being affected, the in- ternal thoracic absorbents carry the diseased matter to the liver, which becomes tuberculated, and assumes the true scirrhous cha- racter. You rarely find the uterus free from disease ; it is affected with what are called polypi, but they are rarely scirrhi of that organ ; hence the pain in the loins, the result of the connexion between the nerves of the uterus and those of the loins. This is not all the history of what is met with in this complaint, deplorable as it is. I was asked to see a lady who had fractured her thigh- bone ; I asked her how the accident happened ; she stated, by simply turning her thigh over the edge of the bed. When I was examining it, 1 saw that the left breast was in a state of scirrhous ulceration; 1 said, “How long have you had this I”—She re- plied, “ For a great number of years.” The thigh united ; but with so little firmness, that in going into bed one day she broke it again. I attended another lady, who broke her thigh below the trochanter major, by very little force ; and a gentleman, who was formerly my assistant, was called to a lady who broke her thigh by walking across the room—each with a scirrhous affec- tion of the breast. I was sent for to Sussex once, to see a lady who fractured her thigh by merely turning in bed, and who had at the same time a scirrhous affection of the breast; and what you find on examination of the bones of those affected with scir- rhous tumours, is absorption, not only of the cancellated structure, but also of the shell of the bone. I attended a lady, with Mr.