187 ON THE TYING OF ARTERIES. lie sheath, and the nerve is on the outer side. Now the edges rf the wound are to be brought together, strips of adhesive plais- ter are to be applied, and the ligatures are to be allowed to come away by suppuration and ulceration. Here is a curious specimen (exhibiting a preparation), show- ing tlie mode in which the circulation is carried on after the external iliac has been tied; the limb has been injected, and the anastomosing vessels are distinct; you also see the part of the iliac artery where it was tied. If, then, you were asked what carries on the circulation after the external iliac has been tied, your answer would be—the gluteal principally; this passes out througn the ischiatic notch, comes over the ilium to the groin, and enters the femoral artery, a little below Poupart’s ligament ; the second artery is the ischiatic, it arises from the termination of the internal iliac, passes out of the pelvis between the tro- chanter major and tuberosity of the ischium to the back of the thigh, and sends a few branches to the arteria profunda and ex- ternal circumflex arteries; the third artery is the obturator, it passes out through the obturator foramen, and joins the internal circumflex artery ; also the external pubic communicates freely with the internal pubic ; therefore, if asked by what vessels the circulation is carried on after the external iliac has been tied, you would say, principally by the glutseal. On SECunivo the iNTEnNAL Iliac AarEnv. An operation of extricrdinary difficulty ; it has been performed by Mr. Stevenson, of the West Indies, and since by two other individuals, one of whom was Mr. Atkinson, of York, for the purpose of securing the internal iliac artery. None but a man endowed with the knowledge which Mr; Stevenson possessed would have dared to undertake such an operation ; but Mr. Ste- venson was educated by Mr. Burns, of Glasgow, an enterprising man, and a most excellent anatomist. He was brought up in his dussecting-room, and this it was that led hlr. Stevenson to tlie idea of doing it. The operation consists of making an incision on the inner side of the spine of the ilium, by which you cut through the abdominal muscles, and reach the peritoneum, which you turn to the opposite side, in order that the artery may be reached. Now, in this operation there is considerable diffi- culty in separating the ureter from the artery, because it crosses just at the bifurcation of the iliac artery, and if a man had not ' cen well acquainted with the anatomy of the part, as Mr. Sto-