ON SYPHILIS AND THE USE OF MERCURY. 577 ber of questions, and which questions I used to be in tlie habit of putting to myself ; you shall now hear what they are; and first. Is a child liable to be affected by syphilis when in uierol— Mr. Hunter said, that a child in utero could not be affected by this disease ; now, Mr. Hunter was, unquestionably, a man who possessed so much judgment in his profession, that his opinions are entitled to the greatest respect and attention; he is an autho- rity to which we are ail inclined to bow with deference and sub- mission. We must not, however, think too highly of his opin- ion in opposition to facts, which we have ourselves observed ; and, if I know any thing of my profession, I have seen syphilis in a child immediately after birth ; therefore, in this particular instance, Mr. Hunter was mistaken. Within twenty-four hours after their entrance into the world, such children have the palms of their hands, the soles of their feet, and the nates, covered writh copper-coloured eruptions, and the nails, at the same time, generally beginning to peel off; and unless something be done for the little sufiferers, they will be quickly carried off from the violence of the disease; indeed, many children die from it, in consequence of the true nature of the complaint not being under- stood by the medical practitioner. In these cases you give the mother a quantity of mercury, the influence of which is commu- nicated to the child, through the medium of the milk, and it be- comes cured of the syphilitic disease. A most curious circumstance connected with this subject is, that a woman, when pregnant, cannot be cured of syphilis; you give mercury, and cause the disappearance of the primary symp- toms; but, after delivery, the secondary effects are very soon manifested in different parts of the body ; the primary symptoms, therefore, are relieved as quickly as usual, but it is evident that the poison is not erndicaterl from the constitution, by disease breaking forth immediately after the birth of the child. I once saw a lady, six months advanced in pregnancy, having on exten- sive syphilitic eruption, for which mercury was administered, and the eruption disappeared ; after this she went her full time, but v/hen delivered, the nates of the child, together with the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet, were covered by a genuine syphilitic eruption. I gave the child hydrarg. cum. cret.; under this treatment it manifested little improvement. A month afterwards I saw the mother; she had an ulcerated sore throat and syphilis, altogether as well marked as in any