294 ON PTERYGIUM. comes similar to a hazel nut, being ash-coloured, and streaked with varicose vessels. This enlargement or excrescence prevents the lids from closing, and allows extraneous matter to enter, which teeps up inflammation of the eye, and it also presses on the puncta lachrymalia, and turns them out of their place; the tears, thus prevented from getting into lachrymal sac, are effused on the cheek. The best treatment is to remove it altogether. It is a simple ope- ration, and is thus performed: an assistant raising the lid, by taking up the tumour with a pair of forceps, removes it with a pair of curved scissors with convex edges. When this complaint has not assumed the malignant form, it is always remediable by ex- cision. Never operate, however, when the encanthis has be- come of the malignant kind, and put on the cancerous appear- ance. This will be known by the dull red colour of the excres- cence, its excessive hardness, lancinating pains extending to the eye-ball and forehead, particularly when touched, foul ulcers, with irregular edges, having all the appearance of cancer in any other part of the body. The last affection of which T shall speak is Pterygium. This is always of the triangular shape, and may be divided into the membranous and fleshy. The first has the appearance of a thin film of minute vessels converging towards the cornea. The usual seat of this affection is towards the inner canthus, that is, with the base at the canthus and the apex against the cornea. It is always of a triangular shape, and the vessels proceed from the base to the apex. The fact is, that pterygia do not long exist before they produce a nebulous state of the transparent part of the eye by deposits of lymph, and then of fluid, 'i'he conjunc- tiva and sclerotic coat become loaded with vessels, and if this affection is not remedied, vision becomes impaired, and is ulti- mately lost. The fleshy pterygia diflfer from the membranous, and are more vascular. They first appear of a yellowish colour. Then the vessels running through them become large, and they have a red appearance ; but always retain their triangular shape. When the disease has proceeded far on the transparent part of the eye, the only plan to adopt will be the removal of a part of the pterygium. This consists simply in raising the membrane as near- as you can to the cornea, and cutting it. through while sus- pended. W'hen the pterygia are fleshy, more care must l«