SYPHILITIC DISEASES OF THE BONES. 573 diseased part. This, however, is not necessary ; the blue pill, with opium, will be sufficient to effect the cure. As to any local treatment, no other will be necessary, except the simple ap- plication ot evaporating lotions, which certainly assist in getting rid of inflammation. When the inflammation has ceased, if there is any enlargement of the bone, a stimulating plaster, as the emplastrum ammoniac! cum hydrargyro, should be employed. Thete is on the table a great variety of preparations, exhibiting specimens of nodes, which will be worth your examination after the lecture. The skeleton on the table affords a curious illustra- tion of the effect produced by mercury on the bones. Though the treatment of nodes, when attended to early, is very simple, cases sometimes occur in which considerable difficulty arises. You will sometimes find a considerable quantity of serous fluid fluctuating between the periosteum and bone. When this fluc- tuation is unaccompanied with inflammation and redness of the skin, there will be no necessity to cut down upon the bone ; if you do so, you will run the risk of producing exfoliation. Such a fluctuation as this may be removed by adding a little to the influence of mercury. I have seen large accumulations of serum in the fore-head and skin-bone entirely absorbed by giving an additional quantity of mercury, and assisting absorption by the application of a blister. When the fluctuation, however, is ac- companied with an appearance of redness in the skin, and much pain in the part, indicating the presence of matter, it will be im- possible to promote absorption by any means, and the sooner an incision down to the bone is made the better. The exfoliation which will afterwards take place, will be proportioned to the ex- tent of surface laid bare ; and if you delay making the opening till the extent of the surface affected is very considerable, you will only be adding to the evil. As soon, therefore, as you dis- cover a fluctuation, accompanied with redness of the skin, make' an incision for the purpose of discharging the matter. Very ex- tensive exfoliations sometimes follow the opening of nodes, and the life of the patient will be in danger. Many persons die from this cause; there is in the college a very fine specimen, taken from a person who died in consequence of the exfoliations which followed the openings of nodes in both his tibi,-c. The flat bones are sometimes the subject of syphilitic symptoms; that which is more commonly affected than any other, is the os fioriti«. The symptoms are the same as those of nodes on, the shins. 'I'lie pa-