184 OPERATION FOR POPLITEAL ANEURISM, branches fiom the anterior tibial. It sometimes happens that the aneurism will be reproduced, by means of a vessel which comes off above the part where the ligature is applied, and en- ters the artery just above the aneurismal sac, and thus repro- duces the aneurism. 1 scarcely should have mentioned this to you, if I had not seen an instance of this a short time ago, in a man at Guy’s, who had been operated on by Mr. Key, for popliteal aneurism, and who was discharged cured. This per- son came back to the hospital with another swelling in the ham, and a pulsation in it, in the same spot as the former aneu- rism : he had suffered considerable pain; the integuments of the knee were very rigid, and the bone, from the long-continued pressure on it, had become in a diseased state. I amputated the limb, and found the aneurism reproduced of the original size, and an artery could be distinctly traced going from a little above the tumour up the thigh. It therefore happens that aneurisms are reproduced by means of arteries which proceed from above the spot where the ligature is applied, to just above the aneuris- mal sac : these cases are, however, extremely rare. The time at which the ligature separates is generally from the twelfth to the fourteenth day; the fourteenth day is generally the extreme ; the twelfth day the minimum of separation ; but it is variable according to the different kinds of ligatures used. I have seen a ligature remain on as long as twenty-eight days, where a broad one had been used ; I have known a ligature come off as early as the fifth day, but in this last case it was put on the brachial artery for a puncture made in bleeding; on the eighth day it had come off, and no hemorrhage ensued; therefore, if early inflammation ensues, the separation will be rapid; but if there be a broad ligature, and the inflammation indolent, it will be from twenty-five to thirty days. Here let me give you one or two practical hints. If the ligature comes away, and without any hemorrhage, you will think the patient safe : he is not so by any means. A man was pushing a knife through a cable, when it slipped, pierced the left thigh, and wounded the femoral artery ; a tourniquet was applied, the best that could be made, for the accident happened on board a vessel in the river; he was brought to Guy’s Hospital, and I was sent for. On my arrival, I found the knife had perforated the artery, and therefore applied a ligature above and below the vessel; on the fourteenth day they separated, about nine in the morning, I believe j about