ON THE TYING OF ARTERIES. 188 vensoD was, he might include the ureter in the ligatuio, and thus cause destruction of life. I put the ligature round the artery (the learned professor continued showing the operation on the dead body), that you may see it is the internal iliac which I have secured; I would not, however, have ventured to per- form this operation, if it had not been performed by another ; I should have doubted my own powers and sikll. It is an opera- tion highly creditable to any one who performs it, but particu- larly to him who first attempted it. In what case, then, would a surgeon be called on to perform this operation 1 Why, for an aneurism of the glutasal artery, just at its commencement, so that it cannnot be reached under the glutaeal muscle ; the ope- ration must be performed in the manner I have just shown you. Tying the Aorta. I was sent for one day to jgo to the other hospital to see a man with violent bleeding from just above the groin, in consequence of a rupture of the internal iliac vessel high up ; the man had long been a patient there; the integuments had sloughed, and the patient was exceedingly reduced from loss of blood. Under these circumstances, I thought myself justified in performing the operation of tying the aorta; for this step I have been greatly abused, but abuse, gentlemen does no injury ; it shows a malicious and bad disposition on the part of those from whom it proceeds, and on a man possessing the mens conscia recti it will have no effect, unless he be destitute of com- mon sense. I was situated as I have just described when I tied the aorta; I knew that the aorta had been obliterated within the chest and that the circulation had been carried on by the intercostal arteries going from above to just below the spot where the aorta was obliterated: the insides of the ribs are covered with numerous vessels. A gentleman of Dublin had a preparation, in which the aorta had been obliterated in the ab- domen ; and in this case the circulation was carried on by lum- bar arteries going from above to below the part where the vessel was obliterated ; I had not the least doubt but that if the aorta was obliterated^^ anastomosing vessels would carry on the circu- lation, on the same principle as in any other part of the body ; the greatest danger is not from gangrene when the ligature is applied on the aorta, nor is any thing to be apprehended as far as regards the carying on of the circulation, but the danger consists in in- cluding the nerves, as I will presently show you.