422 ON PARACENTESIS ABDOMINIS. shew the mode of performing this operation on the dead subject.) By this operation I have known several lives preserved. Mr. Bryant, a brother of the surgeon of that name recovered after the operation, which was performed by Sir B. Harwood, the late professor of anatomy at Cambridge. The two following cases of empyema have occurred in my practice : —I was called by Mr. M., a surgeon at Cheltenham, to see a young lady who iiad a considerable swelling of the abdomen in the region of the spleen. There was an enlargement of the left side, accompanied with difficulty of breathing, cough, and that constitutional irritation which is commonly called hectic fever. On examining this case I said that I thought there was fluid, and on laying the chest bare, tiiere seemed to be a fulness between the third and fourth rib, a little above the nipple. Upon pressing the swelling in the abdo- men, and putting my finger on the intercostal muscles, the fluid undulated between one point and the other. I said there was a collection of matter in the pleura, and, on making a small inci- sion with the point of the lancet, a gush of matter came from the chest. On putting my hand on the abdomen, I increased the flow most abundantly, and I then understood, what I did not before perfectly understand, that the diaphragm was pushed down by the pressure of matter from above, and that pressure upwards from the diaphragm assisted in emptying the chest. I did not empty the chest entirely on that day, but putting a bit of adhesive plaister on it, I said I would empty it a little more the next, and I proceeded in this way to discharge the matter gra- dually from day to day. This young lady is now in perfect health. In the last year, 1 saw a young lady who had a similar enlargement of the side, attended with similar symptoms. I treated this case nearly the same, but I found a great advantage in fixing a girdle round the abdomen, which prevented the dia- phragm from again descending by any accumulation of matter. With respect to spurious empyema, it is merely a common abscess, which must be opened, and treated in the ordinary way. I have only one observation to make with respect to spurious empyema. A boy who had been a long time at sea, and who was the sub- ject of sea-scurvy, came to England with a swelling in his left side. J had no doubt, from its undulation during coughing, that there was matter contained in the cavity of the chest, and I was going to insert my lancet, when I observed that the boy appear- ed to be in very bad health. I inquired more particularly as to