351 OPERATION OF LITHOTOMY. the membranous part of the urethra, by means of the same scal- pel with which you made the other incisions ; and then, fixing the beak of the gorget in the groove of tlie staff, you are to bring down towards you the handle of the latter instrument, while at the same moment you push the gorget into the bladder, with its point directed upwards, and its handle of course somewhat de- pressed. I give you this last direction for the purpose of prevent- ing the dreadful accident of the gorget slipping and passing be- tween the bladder and rectum, instead of its entering the former viscus : I shall say more of this unfortunate occurrence presently, and will now proceed to describe the gorget and knife. Gorget.—The gorget, which was employed in the operation of lithotomy, had no cutting edge, (here the learned professor exhi- bited it to the students, as he likewise did every instrument which he described in the course of the lecture,) as you perceive, and this instrument has one very great advantage over the cutting gorget, viz., its use does not endanger the life of the patient from hemorrhage, which, certainly, is a most important consideration ; for no man who has practised much can say, if he speak honestly and truly, that persons do not sometimes die of bleeding after the operation of lithotomy. When the cutting gorget, as it some- times does, divides the internal pudendal artery, if that misfor- tune be not attended to, the life of the patient becomes endan- gered from the chance of excessive hemorrhage. The blunt gor- get had, however, a counteracting disadvantage of so much con- sequence that its employment has been long since relinquished ; it was the impossibility of making an opening sufficiently large for the removal of a stone of even inconsiderable magnitude. Che- selden, whose success was so great, was in the habit of cutting into the bladder with a knife. In consequence of the very great reputation which Mr. Martineau, of Norwich, has acquired for his lithotomy operations, 1 wrote to him, and requested the favour of a description of his instruments; in the account however, which he was so kind as to send me, it did not appear that they differed from those in common practice. Depend upon it, gentle- men, that little deviations in instruments are over-rated and over- Talued. The success of surgical operations arises rather from the manner in which the operations are conducted, than from any uuigmficant peculiarity, which the instrument may possess. Those surgeons who are ever constructing new instruments and •Itering old ones, you may rely upon it, are deficient here (the