415 ovauian or encysted dropsy. and does not employ pressure, you will soon find that the dropsy will so increase as to require an operation; whereas if the belt be worn, tapping may be put off almost to an indefinite period. Whether medicines are taken or not with a view of promoting the absorption of the water, I would advise you at least to attend to the fecal discharges. 'i'he operation of tapping nas occasionally been performed with a view of merely relieving the load under which the patient has suffered, when, to the surprise of the practitioner, it has ended in a perfect cure ; but, generally speaking, the vessels more com- monly have a disposition to renew the secretion of fluid, and the disease again forms. When about to perform the operation for ovai;ian dropsy, take care that you may not be misW, and perform your operation on a person in a state of pregnancy. I have known several instances of this kind occnr ; it is a very awkward accident, would injure your reputation, and you should always, therefore, previously maka yourself acquainted with the staU a the parts, by an exa- mination per vaginum. Bv waglecting this precaution, difficulties and accidents connected vvith the operation often arise. A gen- tleman from my i^tive county was dining with me one day, and, in the course of conversation asked me if I nad ever performed the opcidt.on of dry tapping 1 “Good God! no (I replied), and 1 hope I never shall.’ ‘ Well [said he], it is an operation that I have seen, at all events ; and I’ll relate to you the par- ticulars, A practitioner in the town where I resided called upon the surgeon with whom I was a pupil, and told me and a fellow student that be was going to perform the the operation of tapping for ovarian dropsy, and if we chose we might go and see it; we thanked him, and attended. “ The woman was seated on a stool, with her abdomen ex- posed, and the surgeon plunged in the trocar and canula, when upon holding up a basin, and withdrawing the former, the doc- tor looked somewhat amazed at finding that no water escaped, anrl after crying ‘ hum,’ and deliberating for a second or two, he withdrew the canula, refixed the trocar in it, stepped back a pace or two, pointed it towa/ds the abdomen, and again charged it as with a bayonet. [.Vucfi laughter.] The trocar was then with- drawn from the canula as before, but still no water I At this he u.'iered '^h !’ instead of ‘ hum,’—paused, withdrew the canula—