650 FRACTURES OK THE THIGH-BONE. easily removed, by drawing down the limb, and you may make it appear of the same length as the other, but immediately on re- motang your extension, the muscles will draw it into its former position, and this will be the case as often as you like to repeat the experiment. This you can do until the muscles acquire a fixed contraction, which enables them to resist an extension that is not of a powerful kind. The next circumstance which marks this injury is the eversion of the foot and knee; this is caused by the power of the external rotatory muscles, which are inserted into the thigh-bone, and which are opposed but by feeble an- tagonists. On the first sight of a patient, then, there are two things that will particularly strike your attention—the shortening of the in- jured limb, with an eversion of the foot and knee; in the dislocation Upwards the head and neck of the bone prevent the trochanter from being drawn backwards, whilst the neck of the bone, being shortened by the fracture, readily admits of it, and this is the reason why the limb is inverted in the one, and everted in the other. The limb has been found inverted, but it is a very rare occurrence. Some hours must elapse before this eversion becomes decisive in its character, as the muscles require some time to contract firmly, and this is the reason why it has been mistaken for a dislocation upwards. In this fracture the patient sufiers but little pain when at rest in the recumbent posture. But on rotation a pain is felt, from the rough end of the bone grating against the synovial membranes lining the capsular ligament. The thigh maybe perfectly extended, but flexion is more difiicult, and attended with pain ; this is increased if the thigh be directed towards the pubes, and lessened if carried outwards. If you should have any doubt now remaining as to the nature of the accident, let the patient stand by the side of his bed, supported by an assistant, and you will have all the appearances which I have before named present; and if he attempt to bear on the injured limb, it will produce much pain, which is occasioned by the psoas magnus and illacus internus being put on the stretch, as well as by the pressure of the roughened surface of the bone on the inner part of the capsular ligament. A crepitus is also discoverable, when the limb is drawn down, so as to be of the same length as the opposite one, and then rotated, but not so when the patient is lying on his back, with the limb shortened. It occurs more frequently in women than in men. This probably may be accounted for by the more horizontal position of the