OPERATION OT LITHOTOMY. 361 body after death, however, it appeared that the stone had escaped into a cyst, by which it was completely enclosed, so that it no longer produced any irritation in the bladder. There is a prepa- ration on the table, which will illustrate the appearance of such a cyst, the raucous membrane passing between the muscular fi- bres, and forming a cavity through the coats of the bladder large enough to admit the stone. When the stone is partly in the cyst, and partly in the bladder, you may sometimes open the cyst, and remove the stone without opening the bladder. An example of this occurred lately in a child at the other hospital, who had slight symptoms of stone. On sounding the child I felt a stone, but as it did not give the usual impression to the sound, I passed my finger into the rectum, and felt the stone con- fined in a bag above it. On raising the stone with my finger, it struck firmly against the sound. I did not open the bladder in this case, but passing my finger into the rectum, and carrying a knife through the perinaium above the rectum, I opened the cyst, and extracted the stone from it. The child did not pass its urine through the opening after the first day, and the wound lealed very readily. I have seen J\Ir. Chandler extract a stone from a cyst in a child, by means of a probe-pointed bistoury; he dilated the mouth of the cyst, so as to be enabled after- wards to extract the stone. In general, cysts in the bladder containing stones are connected with an enlarged state of the pro- state gland. There is a preparation illustrating this state, which was taken from a patient who died from the operation in the other hospital. The repeated attempts which were made to extract the stone, which did not succeed till after a great length of time, produced great irritation, and ultimately ulceration of the bladder, which led to the destruction of life. A great number of small stones, to the amount of thirty, forty, or more, are sometimes found lodged in a cyst, situated behind the prostate gland There is a practi- cal point which ought not to escape my attention or yours ; and that is, that the bladder sometimes undergoes a partial contrac- tion, so that the stone is completely embraced by it. Here is an example taken from a child, which died from this cause at the other hospital, when 1 was an apprentice ; there is another ex- ample of this partial contraction of the bladder in the collection. The way in which it happens is this : surgeons are generally an- xious to allow the patient to retain a considerable quantity of