ON PSOAS AND LUMBAR ABSCESSES. 611 stitution ; the means on which you should chiefly rely, are rest, and the recumbent posture. The part of the spine affected is of no importance with respect to the cure; whether it be the neck, back, or loins, there will be no difference as to the treatment, escept in the form of the mechanical means which may be em- ployed. The next diseases to which I shall call your attention, are Psoas and Lumbar Abscesses. With respect to these diseases, I shall point out to you the nature of their treatment very shortly. Disease of the ligaments of the spine commences between the ligaments and the surface of the intervertebral substance. It is very often nothing more than an abscess, from the disease which I have just spoken of, having its origin in inflammation of the spine, and the interver- tebral substance. The matter spreads till it reaches the origin of the psoas muscle, which passes into ulceration, and forms a bt^, surrounded by a complete ring. The abscess proceeds as far as the tendon of the muscle, by Poupart’s ligament, and its further progress is restrained by the tendon; when it passes under Poupart’s ligament, between the femoral vein and the symphysis pubis, it has generally attained considerable magni- tude, and has the appearance of femoral hernia. You may know this abscess by the following marks: in the first place, when you ask the patient whether he has for a long time had continued pains in the loins; if he has psoas abscess, he will reply, “ Yes, four, five, or six months:” you will find that he has a difficulty in extending the thigh; if he puts his legs together, ho feels pain and tightness in the groin, and he has increased pain in at- tempting to exert the limb, in consequence of the ps">as muscle being then on the stretch. An excellent case of pso.ns abscess, in which the symptoms were particularly well marked, occurred in the other hospital a few days ago. This disease has the same seat as femoral hernia, and is, therefore, liable to bo con- f-ninded with it; the marks which chiefly distinguish it from femoral hernia, arc the pain in the loins, and the very great con- ttilutional disturbance which the patient suTers in the progress of the disease. If the abscess forms on the side of the vertebra:, jnstead of the fore jrart, it is termed lumbar abscess, instead rif psoas. .So muoh for the nature of pso.cs and lumbar abscess ; with respect to the treatment, you must allow the abscess to take its course; very little can be done in this disease, until it has acquired considerable magnitude. The use of issues is somotimet