968 CALCULI IN THE SUBMAXILLARY DUCT. getting out of bed and discharging her urine, she heard some- thing fall into the vessel, and on a light being brought, this stone was found to have passed. Mr. Headington had a patient from whom a much larger stone had passed in the same way. Stones may be removed from the female either by dilating the meatus urinarius or by lithotomy. The extraction by dilatation is, how. ever, greatly to be preferred, not only because there is much less danger in it, but because it does not leave behind the melancholy consequences of lithotomy in the female, I mean the loss of the retention of urine. A woman who undergoes the operation for stone, generally loses, for ever after, the power of retaining her urine. Her condition, therefore, is most deplorable ; the constant discharge of urine, and the constant excoriation of the parts, ren- der her offensive to all around her; her health is broken, and she is completely cut off from all society. The learned professor proceeded to perform on the dead sub- ject the operation of dilating the meatus urinarius, and extracting the stone from the bladder of the female. The forceps employed for this purpose was an instrument constructed upon his own sug- gestion, by Mr. Weiss—a gentleman, observed the learned pro- fessor, whose ingenuity enables him to avail himself of the slightest hint, and to produce mechanical contrivances admirably adapted for the purposes for which they may be suggested. LECTURE XLII. The subject with which I propose to occupy your attention this evening, is the diseases of the breast; but before I proceed to them 1 have a few words to say to you on calculi in the submax- illary duct. Calculi in the Sobmaxillaby Duct. Stones are occasionally found in the duct of the submaxillary gland and produce irritation, the cause of which is unintelligible to the patient, and often not distinguished by the surgeon. The un- pleasant feelings produced by stones in this part occur at and after meals ; the stones arrest the progress of the saliva, and pro- duce irritation of the surrounding muscles ; a swelling forms at the orifice of the duct; day after day the swelling returns, and at last the patient puts his finger along the side of the tongue, feels something hard there, and by this means it is discovered that there is a stone in the submaxillary duct, which has produced