DISLOCATIONS OF THE SPINE. 621 The force should be gradually applied, and it is in this way only - that that state of the fatigue and relaxation is produced which is sure to follow continued extension, and not attempt at once to overpower the action of the muscles. Great attention should be paid to the fixing of that bone in which the socket is placed. If^ fcr example, in attempting to reduce a dislocation of the shoulder, the scapula be held by one person, and two pull at the arm, the scapula is necessarily drawn with the humerus, and the extension is very imperfectly made. The most effectual mode of tiring the muscular power is by the pullies, which have this ad- vantage over extension made by assistants, that your force is gentle and continued, and may be gradually increased, whereas, ihe exertions of assistants are sudden, violent, and often ill- directed, and such force is more likely to produce a tearing of the parts, than to restore the bone to its former situation. First pass a wetted roller round the limb, and over this buckle on the leather with the rings to which the pullies are to be fixed. Having fixed them on, draw the cord very gently, until you feel the muscles making some resistance, then rest two or three minutes, and extend again ; and so on, until you see the muscles beginning to quiver, and by a little further extension they will be overcome, and the bone easily slips into the socket. Sometimes the bone goes into the joint without producing any noise, there- fore care should be taken that the extension be not kept up too long. It is not necessary, in recent dislocations, to use pullies, excepting those of the thigh, in which they should always be used , and they should be used also in dislocations of the shoulder, which have remained long unreduced. The best place to fix the pullies is on the bone to be reduced. The part from which the bone was dislocated must be well secured, as without the aid of bandages the bone will not remain in its situation until the muscles surrounding the joint recover their action. After the reduction, rest is necessary for some time, to allow the rup- tured ligaments to unite, which would be prevented by exercise. Rest is the principal thing to be attended to; and guard against an excess of inflammatory action in the joint and neigitbouring parts, by an evaporating lotion, as the whitewash, and by the ap- p ication of leeches, if necessary. DiSLOCATIOrtS OP TIIF. SPINP,, or accidents that are usually considered such. If dislocation di the spine do ever happen, it is a very rare accident, and I hava ne-. er met with a caae of it. Still it is possible that dislocation oj