TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. 29 half of the body is paralysed from the irritation of a tonth- The secretion from the intestines stops, fever is excited, which produces a hot and dry skin; but restore these secretions, by the administration of purgatives and antimonials, and the irrita- tive fever soon subsides, although the paralysis will sometimes continue, with little alteration, for life. There is another mode in which purgatives produce a beneficial effect in Inflammation, that of irritating the intestines. Blood is determined to them, and is therefore drawn from the part inflamed, upon the principle that two increased actions 'are with difficulty kept up in the body at the same time. It is of no use to act on the intestines in inflammation, without also exciting the liver ; therefore, give calomel with your saline medicines, but do not give salines alone ; the best plan is to give calomel at night, and a saline in the morning. An excellent aperient for adults is one grain of calomel, with four of cathartic extract; or two of blue pill, with three of cathartic extract. Castor oil may also be recommended ; and, as another safe open- ing medicine, you may prescribe infusion of senna, with Epsom salts. In children, calomel, with rhubarb, scammony, or anti- mony, may be ordered as aperients: and in addition to these means, the use of injections, and the warm bath, are the best means of restoring the secretions of the digestive organs. An old Scotch physician, for whom I had great respect, and whom I frequently met in the city, used to say to me, as we were about to enter our patient’s room together," Weel, Mister Cooper, we ha’ only twa things to keep in meend, and they’ll serve us for here and hereafter; one is always to ha’ the fear o’ the I.ord before our een, that ’ll do for hereafter ; and the t’other is to keep OUT booels auways open, and that ’ll do for here.” The methods by which I preserve my own health are, temper- ance, early rising, and sponging the body every morning with cold water immediately after getting out of bed, a practice which I have adopted for thirty years ; and though I go from the hot thea- tre into the s<(uare3 of the hospital, in the severest winter nights, with merely silk stockings on my legs, yet I scarcely ever have a cold. Should it happen that 1 feel indisposed, my never-fail- mg remedy is one grain of calomel combined with four of carthar- tic extract, which I lake at night; with a basin of hot tea, about two hours Ijcfore I rise the following morning, in order to excite a free perspiration, and my indisposition soon subsides.