ON THE CURE OF HYDROCELE. 210 duced. You may say that this was in consequence of the bleed* ing ; tut this is not the case ; the pain arises from irritation in the nervous, rather than the vascular system, and inflammation does not readily follow it, when you have suffered the fluid to re- main five minutes, and withdrawn the instrument, you need not apply any thing to the part, but tell the patient to walk about as usual in the course of the day if he feels but little pain. If he should feel much pain, tell him to lie down, take his dinner that day, and his glass of wine after it if he has been in the habit of doing so. After a few hours have elapsed, inflammation will probably come on. Above all tell your patient to come the next day, that you may see whether the inflammation, which is necessary for the cure of hydrocele, has been produced; if it has not, you must not despair of producing it. Take the part in your hand, and touch it here and there until the patient feels a good deal of uneasiness. Then desire him to take a long walk, and to take an additional quan- tity of wine after dinner. In this way you will generally suc- ceed in producing such a degree of inflammation as will be suffi- cient to effect a cure. It sometimes happens, however, in constitutions which have a great disposition to inflammation, that the injection will act so violently as to produce suppuration. When there is danger of this, which you may ascertain by the great pain and redness of the scrotum, make an incision with the lancet into the part, and discharge the contents, and if the opening be not large, the cure will be effected by the adhesive process. Do not sup- pose that the operation for hydrocele by injection, simple as it is, is altogether devoid of danger. There have been some in- stances in which death has followed and many in which life has been endangered by it. Some gentlemen who now hear me have had opportunities of witnessing the practice of the hospitals for many years, and they must have seen many cases, in which extensive sloughing has been produced, in consequence o. injuiy caused by throwing the injection into the cellular tissue. I will tell you a case which happened shortly after I became surgeon at the other hospital. I injected the tunica vaginalis of a patient for hydrocele, but did not succeed in curing him, for he came back two years after with his hydrocele as large as ever. He was naturally enough disappointed with me for my want of success, and he chose to put himself under the care of Mr. Forster. ap*