3D0 ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. manent relief of the patient. Mr. Cline had a patient in ths hospital whose fungus separated in the manner I have just de- scribed to you. She was discharged cured from the hospital, hut whether the disease ever again returned I am unable to in- form you. The dissections of those who die of fungus hxmatodes show that it generally exists in different parts of the body at the same period; and the cellular membrane, together with many of the glands w’ill be found studded with tubercles ; for the disposition of the constitution to produce the disease in one situation natu- rally operates towards producing it in another, and thus it will be present in many parts at the same time, although its severity in one particular spot will be the immediate cause of death, (The learned lecturer here exhibited to the clau?s several pre- panitions, illustrative and confirmatory of the foregoing remarks.) The liver and lungs are very commonly attacked with these tubercles, the liver so much so, that you are often unable to make the least section of it without some of them being observ- able, showing that every part of this gland is equally filled with them. The uterus is not unfrequently diseased from fungus haima- todes; likewise the ovaria ; the cellular tissue ; the brain and medulla spinalis, but of all the parts of the body most frequently- attacked there are none so much so as tendinous structures. And so desirous, as it were, does this disease appear to be to attack these parts, that we find, when it is situated in the breast, it not only grows externally, but penetrates deeply through the pecto- ral and intercostal muscles, regularly following the course of the tendons and tendinous expansions. Causes ok Fungus Hamato: es. When many important parts are affected at the same time, it is evident that the cause must be constitutional ; in fact, it ever owes its origin to a peculiarity of constitution. Although it may thus arise in almost every important organ at the same time, and be thus generally diffused throughout the system, yet it appears that it may possess merely a local occupation of a part, and the neighbouring structures be entirely free from any morbid or dis- eased action ; for upon removing fungoid tumours, we find that the wounds thus produced heal as kindly as any other wounds caused by the extirpation of any other tumoui-s. Tn making this observation, I wish it to be unilerstood most distinctly, that your