199 ON HYDROCELE. fied. ]Mr. Warner, formerly surgeon at Guy’s, met with an ex- ample of this. There is a similar preparation in the museum at the other hospital, which any of you might see by applying to Mr. Stocker. Mr. Beaver, formerly a student here, accidentally discovered a case of it in our dissecting-room. Then, with regard to the contents of hydrocele, it is usually yellow serum. But sometimes small cartilaginous bodies are found in the fluid ; when these are seen, they prove that the hy- drocele had existed for a very long time, and are always proof of its age. There is another variety which I ought to mention here ; it has been called the congenital hydrocele, in consequence of a com- munication having from birth existed between the tunica vagi- nalis and cavity of the abdomen. When- the parts are lia- tural and perfect, there is no opening leading from one to the other, as you know; but occasionally the natural closure does not take place, and then a fluid may descend from the abdo- men, and collect in the tunica vaginalis. In this manner, sometimes from ascites, the scrotum will become greatly dis- tended ; and here, in such cases, is the best situation for tap- ping. The hydrocele of which I am now speaking may lie readily discovered from any other, in consequence of your being enabled, with ease, to return the water into the cavity of the ab- domen : this you can effect by placing the person upon his back, and then elevating the scrotum. The first case of this variety of hydrocele that I saw was sent to me by Mr. Dobson, of Harrow. The patient being a very young person, I was ap- prehensive of peritoneal inflammation, if I injected; it occurred to me that I might succeed in shutting up the communication with the abdomen by means of a common truss, when I might afterwards safely tap and inject for the radical cure. A truss was accordingly applied over the ring, and ordered to be worn for two years ; at the end of one year itir. Dobson wrote to me to say that the lad was quite cured. Now this I did not expect. \Vhat had happened was this : the pressure of the truss had succeeded in destroying the communication between the tunica vaginahs and abdomen, and then the water had become absorbed. I advise you, should you ever meet with such a case, to pursue a similar practice; for, as you see in this case, the opening which exists may be closed, and if the person’s health be good, the water may be absorbed, thereby rendering an ope-