432 ON FUNGOID DISEASE OP THE TESTICLE. pose at once to be scirrhous. Upon your inquiring whether he has any other complaint, he will tell you that he has occasionally had symptoms of a syphilitic kind. Whether he has taken mer- cury ? Oh, yes, he will say, a good deal, and probably that this disease began while he was taking mercury. Whether he has disease in his urethra? He will perhaps say that he has some stricture, or he may say that he has no obstruction whatever. Having made these inquiries, and received such answers, you may say to the party, “ Follow my advice implicitly, sir, and 1 promise you, that this enlargement of the testicle shall be removed, and in the course of a few weeks you will be quite well.” He will be delighted at hearing this, or he may doubt whether you will be able to succeed. You must, in the first place, strictly enjoin him to keep the recumbent posture: without a strict ad- herence to this, it will be impossible to effect his cure; it is ab- solutely essential to his recovery. You must apply leeches, and evaporating lotions to the part, and desire him to take three, or even five grains of calomel with opium night and morning. If he does this the enlargement of the testicle will subside in the course of a few weeks. This disease is of a similar nature with that which attacks the eye, which has been called iritis, and re- quires the same mode of treatment. It occurs in constitutions which have been injured by intemperance and over-excitement; it will increase until the testicle is entirely destroyed, unless you prevent it by the means I have just pointed out to you. The patient will probably ask whether you mean to salivate him , tell him he must have his mouth well affected, so as to produce a considerable discharge of saliva, showing that the mercury has acted on the constitution. Apply leeches to the part occasionally, and evaporating lotions, as the liquor ammonias acetatis, and spirits of wine. Do not on any account attempt to introduce a bougie, even though the irritability of the urethra should be the source of the enlargement. The Introduction of a bougie at first would only add to the irri- tability of the urethra : wait till you have altered the constitu- tion by the means I have pointed out, and the swelling of the testicle is considerably reduced ; and then, but not till then, you may resort to the use of the bougie with advantage. I will teil you a case which made a strong impression on my mind. An officer in the Peninsula had a chronic swelling of the testicle, for which he consulted surgeons, and he was at lengtii told that