ON BLEEDING OE THE URETHRA. 531 f night, when the patient is warm in bed ; and one ingenious gen- tleman, with a view to keep the parts cool, invented a tube to pass between the legs, under the clothes, to the outside of the bed, for the purpose of admitting a cunent of cold air. The Treatment consists in the application of poultices, fomentations, and leeches. During the night the penis may be enveloped with linen, wetted with the lotion plumb, subacet. Evaporating lotions may also be employed; the best medicine that you can give is thus formed : R. Liquor, potass, m. xx. ' Extr. conii. gr. iij. Mist, camph. 5x. Ft. haust.—It should be taken three times a-day, and will be attended with the best effects. Calomel and opium may also lie administered with much advantage. You may give a pill every night, composed of a grain of calomel, a grain of opium, and two grains of camphor ; this will be found materially to abate the pain, and will be productive of much comfort. To get rid of the hardness which often remains after the painful erections have disappeared, you should rub the part with the ung. hydr. camphorat. and apply some of the same ointment spread on um- brella silk ; by pursuing this plan of treatment, the hardness will generally disappear. There is a Chronic Chordee, Of which I wish to say a few words. It is of this kind: some- times after a person has had gonorrhoea very severely, the dorsum of the penis will become so extremely hard, as, upon examina- tion, to feel ossified. To remove this hardness, you should direct the linimentum. hydrarg. to be rubbed on the part night and morning ; or you may order it to be kept covered by a plaster of the cerat. saponis ; this acts like a poultice, and when the com- plaint is recent, will answer very well; but, when of long stand- ing, you must have recourse to the liniment, hydrarg. and even this will often fail, owing to the extremely thickened state of the tendinous sheath of the dorsum. Of Bleeding from the cnF.THiu. We are sometimes called to persons having considerable h.Tj- morrhage from the urethra. It sometimes occurs from iJie rup- ture of a vessel during inflammation : at other times, and more frequently so, it is caused by the introduction of a catheter or bougie. From whatever cause it procec'ls, the 2 11 2