130 ON INJURIKS OF THE HEAD. profession really is. . It is for these reasons, gentlemen, that I shall never hesitate, coute qui coute, to detail to you, and perhaps to the public, those cases which have terminated unfavourably. I have a duty to perform, and I shall never shrink from the dis- charge of it. It is by detailing to you the unfavourable as well as the favourable cases, that I can alone perform that duty ; for it is by such a course alone that I can point out to you the rocks which you are to avoid, as well as the havens in which you are to endeavour to anchor. The case to which ITast alluded was one of concussion, accompanied with slight laceration of the brain, which occurred in the other hospital. The gentleman under whose care the patient was, thought it right to bleed him, and that he could not bleed him too largely. He accordingly bled, not only from day to day, but twice a-day. The consequence of this mode of treatment was, that the patient became perfectly pale, was in a state of considerable dejection, not of the mind, but of the powers of the body, and died without any symptoms of in- flammation, ten days after the injury. On examination of the body, it was found that there was a slight laceration of the brain, with some degree of extravasation of blood, but that not the slightest attempt had been made by nature to heal the wound. You are aware that the brain heals, like any other organ, by the process of adhesion ; but in this case, the quantity of blood taken from the patient was so large, that the slight inflammation neces- sary to the adhesive process was removed, and the process of re- storation consequently prevented. Still it is often necessary to take away blood, after the first large bleeding ; but it must be taken in small quantities, and you must watch the patient with .he greatest possible anxiety, for the symptoms can alone regu- late your practice. Sometimes it is necessary to take away large quantities of blood. I was called to a gentleman who had fallen from his horse in riding to London. I found him insensible on my arrival. Mr. Constable, who attended him, had already bled him, but I judged it necessary to bleed him again largely ; and I took blood in smaller quantities from him day after day, watching the pulse with the greatest anxiety, and bleeding him only so far as to reduce the hardness of the pulse without dimi- nishing too much the powere of his body. The whole quantity of blood taken from this gentleman, by bleeding from tlie arm, opening the temporal artery, and the application of leeches, as far as tins could be estimated, amounted to about two hundred