499 ON Virulent uonoruhcea. of syphilis and gonorrhoea: syphilis is a disease which a child may generally cure; gonorrhoea is a disease which very often baffles the longest experience, and the greatest professional skill. Having described to you the symptoms of gonorrhoea, I shall make a few general observations on the disease, before 1 proceed to speak of the treatment of it. In the first place, what is the time in which it appears after connexion I The usual limit is from four to seven days ; it is seldom under four, and very rarely exceeds seven days. I have known it, however, occur within twenty-four hours after connexion ; and sometimes a fortnight, or a longer time, will elapse before it appears. I h^ve known an instance in which it was delayed for fourteen weeks, in conse- quence, I believe, of the geiieral indisposition of the pitient. The cause of gonorrhoea is undoubtedly inflammation of the la- cunre of the urethr®, and particularly the lacuna magna. You will have an opportunity of seeing the state of the lacunffi under this inflammation, in the injected urethra, in two dift’ereut prepa- rations. The inflammation is of the erysipelatous kind, but there is no appearance of ulceration. If ulceration were pro- duced, the membrane of the urethra would soon give way. It is merely a secretion from the mouths of the vessels; ulceration does occasionally take place in the lacunas, but notin the urethra itself. When the inflammation runs high, it extends down to the bulb of the urethra. Many years ago, I had an opportunity of examining the ure- thra of a man who was executed, and who had gonorrhoea at the time of his execution. The inflammation had extended down to the bulb of the urethra; for an inch or an inch and a half down the urethra was exceedingly red, and there was some effusion of matter on the internal surface ; the urethra was red at the bulb, but not of so deep a colour. The inflammation, tlierefore, is not confined to an inch, or an inch and a half down the urethra, but often extends over the bulb of the urethra, and in this way pro- duces strictures. In the case to whicli I allude, the gonorrhceal inflammation had extended at least seven inches down the urethra. In general, on examination of a subject who has died under go- norrhrea, you will find a small quantity of purulent matter at the extremity of the penis, and inflammation extending about an inch and a half down the urethra, which if exposed to the air for twenty-four hours, assumes a florid redness. With respect to the manner in which this disease is produced, I have heard some