464 ON NASAL POLYPI. quickly destroys them. It may be supposed that th's strong application would hurt the nose; this, however, is not the case; hut care should he taken to confine its application to that part only where its use is required. The third species that I shall mention, is the Carcinomatous Nasal Polypi. These are commonly met with in old people; they are usually attended with severe pain across the forehead, in the situation of the frontal sinuses—the passage of the air through the nose becomes obstructed from the size of the swelling—the tumour also presses upon, and occasionally obliterates, the lachrymal sac, preventing the natural course of the tears, thus giving rise to the inconvenience and symptoms of fistula ladirymcdit. I have known the pain in the nose in these cases excessive; the pain is not constant, but occasional—and then dreadfully severe; at such times there is more or less hemorrhage, and this ulti- mately affords the sufferer a temporary cessation of his misery. In these complaints, I am sorry to be obliged to say, that nothing can be done except of a tranquillizing nature; the bella- donna and opium may be introduced; also the conium, with a view of affording ease; and, if the inflammation should be severe, you may apply leeches in the vicinity of the nose, to- gether with evaporating lotions. As regards internal lemedies, these are likewise to be merely of a palliative nature; opium is the principal medicine given with this view, and it answers the purpose well; you are therefore to give opium in such quantities as shall have the effect of lessening the dreadful pain; by this means you smooth the path to death, and I lament being compelled to state, that if you succeed in this you will achieve all that medicine can accomplish. The fourth and last species I have to describe t» you is the Fungoid Nasal Polypus. There is a case of this kind at present in the other hospital. The first case of this description that I saw was in a young gentleman seventeen years of age; the particulars I will briefly mention to you. The father of this youth called at my house with him, for the purpose of inquiring what was to be done. At the time I s.aw him, there was a bleeding from the part, and this I understood from the father frequently happened. The parent asked me if I would remove the tumour, and I told him yes. This I did by ligature, but much sooner than I expected;