0?i DISEASES or THE BREAST, 878 body of one of the ladies whose case I have mentioned to you, I found the sternum affected with scirrhous tubercle. 1 stated to you the case that I attended with a respectable surgeon of the city, where the vertebra: were affected ; and here is a specimen taken from the patient at Guy’s, who had distorted spine, and a return of a scirrhous tumour in the breast, after an operation had been performed. There is a deposit of scirrhous matter on the vertebrae. These different preparations show that the formation of scirrhous matter is not confined to the breast and that it is only the index of a disordered constitution. (The learned professor sent round the theatre the different specimens just aliuded to, illustrative of the cases which were mentioned at the end of the last lecture in order that each student might have an opportunity of examining them for himself.) I shall now con- tinue the subject of diseases of the breast, and shall state to you some further particulars respecting the scirrhous breast. Scirrhous Brf.ast. Married women who bear no children, and single women are more subject to this complaint than those who have large fami- lies. It is very probable that the natural change which the ■breast undergoes in the secretion of milk has some power in pre- venting this diseased affection of the breast, which is certainly less frequently met with in married persons, who bear children, than in married persons who do not, and those who remain in a state of celibacy ; but it is no security against this complaint that a woman has borne children. 1 knew a woman with this dis- ease who had been pregnant seventeen times; she had borne nine children, and had eight miscarriages, so that in the whole she had been pregnant seventeen times ; yet the disease in this person was as large a scirrhous as I ever witnessed. Although the disease comes on more frequently in those who have had no children, in consequence of the breasts not having undergone the natural change in the secretion of the milk, yet this is no security against the complaint, though it lessens the tendency to it. It is generally believed that scirrhous tubercle of the breast is con- nected with the cessation of the menses. I believe that if t per- son has a tumour in the breast which is not malignant, and that it remains so till the change of life takes place, that then an un- due action may be excited in the part, and the tumour becomes scirrhous just at the cessation of the menstrual discharge. But the disease generally occurs at an earlier period : the period at