ON THE TYING OF ARTERIES. 193 tendon, and you will immediately find the artery close to its edge. Instead of putting ligatures upon these vessels at the wrist for aneurism, or wounds of the palmar arch, it has been recommended to employ pressure, by means of cork folded in lint and bound down by a bandage. This practice, when used, leads to great inflammation and irritation—and I would advise you against using pressure generally, and more especially as regards the ulnar and radial arteries, as they can be so erisily tied if you possess the least anatomical knowledge; and if you do not know anatomy you had better never touch the body at all. Tying the Carotid Artery. When this vessel is to be secured, it is desirable to make the incision as high as you can; the upper boundary, there, fore, will be the angle of the jaw, and below the omo-hyoideus : make your incision first, then high up, on the inner side of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus : upon drawing aside the edge of which you will distinctly see the omo-hyoideus obliquely crossing the artery. (Sir Astley here exhibited it in the dead body.) I have laid bare the carotid, and wUl now show you what you must prin- cipally take care to avoid in this operation, viz., the par-vagum, which accompanies the artery; if you were to tie this nerve you would endanger life ; well then, when you are about to pass the ligature round the vessel, if you raise it a little, you can readily discover whether the nerve be in contact with it, and thus guard against an accident which might lead to a fatal result. I will now conclude the lecture by saying a few words on aneu- risms from arteries of the scalp. The first case of this kind that I saw was sent to me by Mr. Toulmin, of Hackney: in this instance 1 tied the artery proceeding to and from the tumour. If the aneu- nsmal bag be not very large, you may cut immediately across it; apply a piece of doubled lint, then adhesive plaister, and over the whole a roller. If the swelling is small, that is, not larger than a walnut, adopt another mode, which is to make a circular incision completely down to the occipito-frontalis tendon. In thb manner the connexion between the blood-vessels and the aneurism is destroyed ; and by applying a dossil of lint and strips of adhesive plaister, you speedily succeed in getting rid of the disease. 1 saw a case of aneurism of the posterior aural artery, and, for its cure, tied all the vessels which were leading to and from it. I should have done better, by making the circular incision that I have just described round the tumour. o