OVARIAN OR ENCYST EDDROPSY. 412 and these diseases are somewhat similar, both having a local origin. .4fter the encysted dropsy has existed for a short time a small tumour will be perceived just above Poupart’s ligament, lying upon the brim of the pelvis, in the hollow formed by the iliacus internus muscle ; no fluctuation can be perceived in it at first, as it increases, it gradually rises as high as the kidney of the affected side, it then crosses the abdomen, and fills the opposite side; it thus forms on one side, grows to a considerable size, then passes to tbe opposite side, and thus becomes of very considerable mag- nitude. There is no pain in the progress of the complaint, and the principal inconvenience that arises from it, when the tumour is situated in the'pelvis, is its pressing upon the bladder, and inter- rupting the free flow of urine. It is necessary to have the abdomen very much distended, be- fore fluctuation can be perceived ; it is not by any means so dis- tinct here in its early stages as in ascites, and requires considera- ble time before the fact can be correctly ascertained. There is about the same quantity of water drawn out in ovaria i dropsy as in akeites, viz,, from twenty-five to thirty pints, and when the swelling occupies both sides of the abdomen, you will not find much variation in these quantities. You may form some idea of the size that they sometimes reach, by this enormous bag (here the professor shewed to the class an exceedingly large, dried membranous cyst) ; this is the cyst of an ovarian dropsy, and it contained ninety-seven pints of water, being twelve gallons and a pint, and is not the largest that has been known. I have heard of their containing above a hun- dred pints ; and in one case, from between a hundred and twenty to a hundred and thirty pints. The woman from whom this ■cyst was taken, would not permit the operation of paracentesis to be performed, and therefore, in all probability, lost her life through her obstinancy ; she grew, as you may imagine, a most unwieldly figure, and was obliged to be wheeled from place to place, not being capable of exercise. Now, gentlemen, it sometimes happens that the ovaries be- come diseased, and grow to tumours of an immense size ; here is one which was given to me two or three days since by iMr. Callaway ; you see of what immense magnitude it is ; it weighs thirty-nine pounds some ounces ; it was removed after death from an elderly woman, but the history of the case is unknown