474 ON AUHA EPILEPTIC A. divided ; you ought to ask the patient if he feels a numbness of the upper lip, and if he should not, your operation will be in- complete. When necessary, the supra-orbitar branch is to be di- vided in a similar manner, by introducing the knife under the integuments of the superciliary ridge, and cut through the nerve immediately as it emerges from the supra-orbitar foramen, carry the point of the knife from the nose outwards. When the submental nerve requires division, you need not make any incision through the integuments, but may perform the operation by placing the knife within the mouth, and directing its point downwards, to the mental foramen, where the nerve passes out, and by gliding the knife along the bone at that part, the nerve is sure to be divided ; in performing this operation, you may direct your knife by the bicuspidati teeth the anterior maxillary foramina being just below them. The best medical treatment of tic douloureux, with which J am acquainted, is the exhibition of the carbonate of iron. Mr. Hutchins, of Nottingham, has published a work on the disease now under consideration, in which he speaks strongly in favour of the above medicine; it certainly is an admirable remedy—and the profession is much indebted to Mr. Hutchins for having recommended it. I may here remark, it is much to be regretted that country practitioners do not more frequently publish the result of their observations and experience; much valuable knowledge is lost to the world from their neglect of this important duty. In speaking of the carbonate of iron, and of medicine in general, when given for the cure of tic douloureux, it cannot, of course, succeed, should the disease be otherwise than func- tional ; if it should be caused, as in the case of Dr. Pemberton, for example, (who suffered more, probably, than any other human being from this malady,) by a piece of bone projecting into the brain, medicines will prove utterly unavailing as regards cure ; and temporary ease Is all that can be afforded. five minutes more, gentlemen, and I have done. On Auba Epileptica. A man was sent to me by a surgeon of Watford having this disease ; he would be occasionally seized by a severe pain in the thumb, which gradually extended up the arm, in the course ot the radial and brachial nerves, through the axilla to the neck ; bis head would then become twisted, and in a moment he would