ON DISEASE OF THE TESTICLE, 428 sxtremely hard swelling, which may immediately inform the surgeon of the nature of the disease. It feels like a marble body lodged within the scrotum, and it is tuberculated on its surface. It sometimes begins in the centre of the testicle, and. grawiaJlv extends until the whole is involved in the disease. The epidy- dimis next becomes the seat of the disease, that portion being first attacked which communicates with the vas deferens. I'he spermatic cord becomes enlarged, and tubercles of various sizes form upon it. After the spermatic cord has become enlarged, a hard tumour forms beneath the emulgent artery, which may be felt through the abdominal parietes. In true scirrhus, the testi- cle does not become enlarged to any considerable size. Aftei the swelling in the Idins, the thigh becomes enlarged, and cede* matous on the side of the disease, which arises from the obstruc- tion to absorption; and the pressure on the veins may also have influence in producing this effect. In the former disease which I noticed, I observed that the general health of the patient was not affected ; but this is not the case in scirrhus of the testicle. The countenance undergoes a remarkable change ; it is yellow, and sunk, a fixed colour terminates abruptly in the cheek. When you walk through the w'ards, and observe a patient greatly enia- dated with this fixed redness of the cheek, the rest of the face being extremely sallow, you may almost conclude, horn these appearances, that he is labouring under some scirrhous or can- cerous affection. This disease differs also very much from the last, in being attended with excruciating pain, which becomes more intolerable as the disease advances. It is generally from a year and a half to two years before the disease destroys the pa- tient. When you cut into a swelling arising from this cause, you will find it composed of a considerable number of lobes; and cartilaginous substances, and earthy matter, are frequently de- posited in the testicle. [The learned professor exhibited a pre- paration illustrating these appearances.] Such is the character of true scirrhus; it attacks persons at an advanced period ; m general between sixty and seventy years of age, seldom under fifty-five years. There is a preparation in which the tubercula- ted character of the disease is still more manifest than in the last. The operation for this disease is extremely unsuccessful, for it rarely happens that the disease does not return after the removal of the scirrhous testicle. This may arise in some measure from the late period at which patients usually apply for relief. If the