ON HYDROCELE. 194 LECTURE XXIII. On Hydrocele. Hydrocele is an accumulation of water in the tunica vaiginalu testis; the anatomy therefore, of those persons who say that the fluid is contained between the tunica albuginea and the tunica vagi- nalis is exceedingly faulty. Such a description is entirely false; and I scarcely need tell yon, gentlemen, that the water is complete- ly enclosed in the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. If the ques- tion were put to you, where is the water situated in hydrocele! the answer would be what I have just stated ; and if you gave any other, it would be directly perceived that your knowledge of the anatomy of the part was but imperfect. The situation of the water in hydrocele is precisely similar to water in the pericardium ; and what should we say of the man who would assert that this water was contained between the pericardium and heart? Why, gentlemen, we should feel assuied that he was entirely ignor- ant of the matter, for water in the pericardium is situated dis- tinctly within it: and so is water in hydrocele completely with- in the tunica vaginalis. Hydrocele is a generic term, and a multitude of tumours have received this appellation. It is now, however, usually confined to two j I should, therefore, say that hydrocele is of two kinds, viz,, 1st, of the tunica vaginalis; and, 2d, of the spermatic cord. Hydrocele of the Tunica Vaginalis. Well, then, of hydrocele in the tunica vaginalis. The swell- ing at first shows itself at the lower part of the testicle, and gradually rises till it arrives at the abdominal ring; is of a pyriform shape ; largest two-thirds of the way downwards; a little less at the bottom ; and smallest at the ring. The com- mon formation of hydrocele is unattended with pain, except- ing, however, in those cases where it has been the result of inflammation ; but, generally speaking, there is no pain, and the patient accidentally discovers the existence of the swell- ing and often not until it has arrived at considerable magni- tude. Commonly there is no ledness of the scrotum—no diifcoloration. The ordinary situation of the testicle in hydrocele is two-thirds