ON THE TYING OF ARTEIUES. 185 twCive he began to wash and clean himself, and soon after a jet of blood took place. I was sent for, applied other ligatures, and he was obliged to keep his bed nearly as long as before, though I think the. ligatures separated a day or two sooner. When they separate, therefore, be on your guard, and let the patient remain quiet two or three days afterwards. The operation which has been shown to you, gentlemen, for popliteal aneurism, is the one used for aneurisms of the anterior and interior tibial arteries, situated at the upper part. I saw Mr. Lucas, the father of Mr. Lucas, the late surgeon at Guy’s, perform that operation for aneurism of the anterior tibial artery. But this operation is not to be performed when the aneurism in these arteries is neat the foot; I have not seen an aneurism of the posterior tibial behind the inner malleolus, but I have of the anterior tibial on the front of the foot. I saw Mr. H. Cline, in an aneurism of the anterior tibial cut down on the tumour, and apply a ligature just above it, but it did not succeed. In these aneurisms, you must make an incision on the sac, and apply a li- gature both above and below it. LECTURE XXII, On the Tying of Ahteries, We are, this evening, gentlemen, to consider the subject ot the taking up of the arteries in the different parts of the body, for aneurism. The Application of a Ligatdbe on the External t Iliac Artery. It is not at all an uncommon occurrence to meet with an aneu- rism of the femoral artery just below Poupart’s ligament, of which Itere is a specimen (^pointing to one on the table), exactly similar to the aneurisms which occur in the ham. Now, with respect to recurring to the operation in this complaint, I have performed it in nine different instances for aneurism of the femo- ral artery ; one of those persons was a surgeon, who has since married, and is extremely well. The mode in which the opera- tion is performed is as follows :—(There was a subject on the ta- ble during the whole of the lecture, on which the learned professor showed each operation.) I do not make a straight incision in the course of the artery, but one of a similunar form. 1 begin the incision a little above the abdominal ring, and extend it in the