ON FUNGUS II.FIJJIATODES OF THE EYE. 321 opacity of the lens, from which it is difficult to distinguish it. If you watch the progress of this disease, you will see that thw appearance enlarges into a prominence proceeding from the bot- tom of the eye towards the cornea and as it reaches the lens, you must be the more on your guard that you do not mistake it for cataract There is one appearance, however, at this stage by which vou can distinguish the one from the other upon the opaque substance, or the retina, of which its covering consists, branches of the arteria centralis retinae may be seen ramifying. The other symptoms are loss of vision, and the iris remaining immovable. As the prominence enlarges, the iris becomes pro- truded, and the cornea distended. The conjunctiva becomes indamed, the eye-lids vascular, and in a diseased state ; and in process of time the cornea sloughs, an opening is fbrmed, and a discharge of a ropy mucus first takes place. The fungus does not always protrude through the cornea, but sometimes through the sclerotic, and then it has a purple, livid hue. and is covered by the conjunctiva. When the fungus in- creases in size, it assumes a dark red colour, its surface is unequal and irregular; it bleeds at the slightest touch ; the parts slough, and then there is a fetid, sanious discharge. During the progress of the complaint, the health becomes affected, the countenance puts on a sallow hue, and the patient wastes in flesh. This dis- ease is accompanied, and generally preceded, by disorder of the digestive organs ; the appetite is impaired; and there are present all the other marks of derangement of the general health. When the strength and health are broken up, the disease very soon comes to a termination. The close of the disease is preceded by hectic fever; as is that of most complaints from which the general health has suffered much during their progress. In fungus of the eye, the rest is completely destroyed, there is an affection of the nervous system; and in children, convulsions come on, which terminate their existence. In all stages of the disease, there is a tendency to them, and they generally prove destructive to life. If yon examine the appearances of the eye, you will find little difference in them from those of fungus in any other part. There is a grumous appearance on the surface, and the fungus bears a striking resemblance to the medullary matter of the brain—no* unlike cream to the sight. The appearances, however, vary in