INFLAMMATION OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. ( affection' produces partial retention of urine, it should be con- sidered as a salutary process, for if it prevents incontinence of urine, which, in old people, would almost constantly take place, were it not for this preventive. It makes the urine pass slower than natural; but this may be excused, when it is the means of preventing a continual wetting of the clothes. Well, then, the first circumstance by which you know that an old person has chronic enlargement of the prostate gland, is thedength of time he requires for the purpose of voiding his urine. All of you must have observed that an old gentleman is twice as long, when en- gaged in this process, as a young one; and this is the first thing that attracts the patient’s attention. Well, the next thing noticed is, that the urine has a particularly powerful smell, which arises from its being ammoniated, in consequence of some urine re- maining in the bladder after each discharge. Remember, there- fore, that in this complaint the whole of the water, each time it is attempted to be expelled, does not pass away. The next symptoms observable, are pain and numbness in the glans penit; the prepuce not possessing its usual sensibility, sense of weight and uneasiness in the perinasum, relieved by pressure with the finger; pain in the back of one or both thighs, in the loins, and at the origin of the sciatic nerve, and course of the ureters; the faeces are flattened, the reason of which is, that pressure has been made upon the rectum by the swollen gland. Persons having en- larged prostate for any length of time, generally have likewise prolapsus ami, and hemorrhoids : when the enlargement of the gland is considerable, the patient will kneel, resting upon his hands, with his knees widely distended, and thus continue for a tedious time, passing only' a few drops of urine, after the most persevering efforts, and with the most excruciating pain. Besides what I have already stated, the ammoniacal smell of the urine, as the disease advances, becomes highly offensive, and at length the urine itself becomes white or milky ; this appearance shews that the inflammation has extended to the mucous membrane of the bladder. If the urine be much retained, it has the appear- ance of coffee, occasioned by an admixture of blood with it; this leads many practitioners to suppose, for the moment, that the case is one of stone ; but, if you question the patient your doubts on this point will be very satisfactorily removed. If you desire him to stand up, and jump firmly on the floor, he will do so ; if you ask him whether he can ride over a rough road without much