ON PIIVMOSIS. 5')0 Allied at the beginning of the complaint. The unguent'um hy- irargyri is a bad application ; it Ls too irritating. Sometimes it spears that the chancre goes into an indolent slate, then it will 6e advisable to use the nitrate of silver, not with a view to de- stroy the part, but for the purpose of cleaning the surface, and thickening the edges of the wound ; the skin surrounding the part is thin, and by the application of the nitrate of silver you thicken it, and thus enable it to carry a greater number of vesseb to produce cicatrization. Phymosis. It not unfrequently happens, that phymosis is the result of chancre. It is hardly necessary for me to say what phymosis is; it sometimes arises from slight inflammation of the cellular tissue, and effusion of serous matter into it. Here I will ob- serve, that, should you find, during a mercurial treatment, considerable inflammation produced round the chancre, lay aside the use of mercury. The great secret, in the treatment of this disease, is knowing when to discontinue the use of mercury ; you should always suspend it when the inflammation is increased during its em- ployment, for if you persevere in the use of mercury, you will only add to the irritation, which will end in the sloughing pro- cess, and destruction of the part. If I were to give to a patient mercury for chancre on the Saturday, and on the Monday fol- lowing I perceived swelling and inflammation round the sore, I should immediately lay aside the mercury, give active purges, erder poppy fomentations, and the parts to be suspended. '1 he black wash should be applied to the sore, injecting it under the skin, unless it should increase the irritability of the part. After the purges, administer opium in considerable quantities, and when you have reduced the inflammation, have recourse to the mercury again; but, if you had gone on with this medicine in the irritable state of the part, the result would be sloughing of the penis. When there is phymosis, together with sloughing of the penis, stop the mercury, order the patient the recumbent posture, and the part to be well supported; use fomentations and poultices of a slightly stimulating kind; you keep up a gently stimulating action in order to produce a secretion sufli- cient to support the powers of the part; if you stimulate it loo much, the part will be destroyed, and if you omit to do it in slight degree, there will be no separation of the slough. Iii8-