ON CIIANCUE. 547 character, and heals by common means. The poison of chan- cre will not produce a gonorrhoea, nor the poison of gonorrhoea induce a chancre. Having thus endeavoured to explain the character of chancre, I shall now speak of the treatment it requires; and here let me remind you, that I shall deliver no speculative opinions, nothing but what you may see every day exemplified in practice. The first point to be considered respecting the cure of chancre is, shall caustic be applied to it or not? He who uses caustic to chancres pursues a line of practice liable to be productive nf much mis- chief. 1st. Because the application irritates the part, and may, in consequence, produce bubo. 2nd. If the action of the sore be altered by it, it will not prevent the constitution from being affected, because if there be any ulceration, the process of ab- sorption must have commenced, and the poison applied to the part will be taken into the constitution. I would ask the person who uses caustic for the cure of chancres, how is chancre pro- duced? We know that there can be no sore without the ulcera- tive or absorbent process ; and the chancrous matter applied to a part, causing a sore in that part, must be absorbed and taken into the system. Caustic to chancres is a very objectionable application; but it is the acme of folly to endeavour to cure a patient by means of it, without adopting a proper mercurial treatment, to coun- teract the constitutional effects that will otherwise be produced by the absorption of the venereal virus. A young person with whom I was intimate whilst I lived with my old master, got a chancre, which, to use his expression, he burned out by applica- tion of caustic : 1 laughed at him for being so foolish ; the caustic produced a slough, but cured the chancre, and I thought nothing more of the circumstance. Some time afterwards 1 visited him in the country, and I a,-ked him how he was? “ Very well now,” he replied, “ but 1 have been in a fine scrape; I was engaged, when I left town, to a young lady, the nuptials were to have been soon celebrated, and the business of life commenced.” 1 invo- luntarily smiled, but he said, “ Not quite so merry: when I got info the country, I had what I conceived at the time was only a huskiness of the throat, which I had caught from a cold. My throat becoming more painful, I looked into the glass, and per- ceived that I had a large sore on the tonsils, decidedly syphilitic. You may conceive how I felt; 1 wrote to the lady that I was unwell, who, exceedingly hurt at such news, came and nursed 2 n2