616 IIiniTABLE STATE OF THE URETHRA. but keep introduced in the bladder an elastic gum catheter. Ad abscess of this description, very much neglected, has been known to break into the rectum, and the urine to be afterwards discharged through the unnaturircourse. In the treatment of abscesses of the lacunm of tlie urethra and perineum, it is of the utmost im- portance that you should attend to the state of the patient’s gene- ral health ; for these abscesses often form in broken constitutions, and it is impossible that you can cure them while the system is in a depraved and debilitated State; you should, therefore, pre- scribe alterative tonic medicines, nutritive diet, and country air; attention to the state of the constitution will sometimes cure these abscesses, after every local remedy has failed. Abscesses of the perinaera are often produced from the unskil- ful manner in which catheters and bougies are sometimes intro- duced, and by using bougies of too large or two small a size. There are some cases of strictures so bad, so obstinate, that, use w'hat instrument you will, and with all possible care, yet you will not succeed in overcoming the resistance. You must recol- lect the case lately in the other hospital, where I was under the necessity of cutting down upon a stricture, and immediately be- hind which was a urinary calculus; upon searching a little further 1 found a second, and then the catheter passed with ease into the bladder. Well, I mentioned to you, at another pai’t of the lecture, that urinary fistul® in ano sometimes exist, and that the introduction of a catheter into the bladder is not sufficient to cure them, as the urine will, notwithstanding, still continue to escape by the sinuous opening. Urinary fistula in ano is fistula in perinaeo and fistula in ano blended. The first case of the kind that I ever saw, was in a gentleman from Kent; two surgeons attended him, one of whom was myself. The other surgeon injected the sinus ; the patient was directed frequently to introduce a catheter: he came to town a short time afterwards, and told me that he continued to pass the catheter for six weeks, when, concluding that he was cured, he ceased to employ it. The urine however, returned by its former course, and he again came to town for the purpose J if possible, of getting the unpleasant disease cured. What I did, I was to make the same incision in the perineum, as is made by the 1 lateral stone operation : my object was to divide the sinus into I two ; this succeeded in producing a complete cure. I The next subject to which 1 shall direct you attention, Is I