4-20 ON PARACENTESIS ABDOMINIS, 1 his may be in some degree accounted for, as she ibade very infianimaiion in the abdomen have been felt by the patient, for two or three days after the operation. In general the water re- accumulates very shortly after the operation. Persons are said to have undergone the operation for encysted dropsy of the abdo- men more than one hundred times ; 1 have never met with such a case in my own practice, but there is a tomb-stone in a church- yard at Dartford, in Kent, on which it is stated that the lady buried under it underwent the operation more than one hundred times. It sometimes happens that ovarian dropsy ceases to be reproduced, after the operation has been repeatedly performed. This happened in a lady who had undergone the operation two or three times in the year, for upwards of twenty years. In ge- neral, the disease returns after the operation ; there are very few examples to the contrary. I have known but three cases of en- cysted dropsy of the abdomen in which the disease has not re- turned ■, one in a young lady of seventeen, another in a medical man under twenty, and another in a boy, who had an enlarge, ment of the mesenteric glands, followed by ascites. The ova- rium sometimes suppurates after the operation, and this suppura- tion proves destructive to life ; the quantity of matter secreted in these cases is enormous. On the other hand, I have known ovarian dropsy spontaneously cured. The wife of a veterinary surgeon had a dropsy of the ovaries spontaneously cured by the adhesion of the ovaries to the umbilicus. Ulceration was pro- duced, and the fluid contained in the cyst gradually discharged. I have known the ovarium glued to one of the intestines, and fluid discharged in a similar manner. In one of the cases to which I allude, there is still some discharge of fluid ; though for a length of time the symptoms of dropsy entirely ceased. A patient, after undergoing the operation for this disease, will ask you whether she should drink very little. In general we answer that the patient should drink as little as possible ; but it is doubtful whether the disposition to a return of the disease is much altered by abstinence frorn drink. I once recommended the wife of a coachman, after the operation for encysted dropsy, to drink as little as possible, and to allay her thirst by sucking the juice of oranges. She followed this plan, but was, very soon after, again the subject of tlie operation for ovarian dropsy. I then recom- mended her to drink as she pleased; she returned to her favourite beverage, porter, and the cyst did not fill nearly so fast as before.