112 ON GANGRENE. than I felt in going home from the hospital on that day. With respect to antidotes against the effect of poison, it is well known that they are, in a great degree, useless. It is. impossible, for in- stance, to get rid of arsenic from the stomach by any remedy that can be administered. It is doubtful whether any man ever re- covered from the effects of that poison by means of an antidote. So with respect to opium; when it is taken into the stomach in such large quantities that vomiting cannot be excited, the pa- tient cannot be relieved by the exhibition of medicine ; for where is the antidote against the effects of opium 1 A few weeks ago, a nurse in this hospital died in consequence of having swallowed opium. No relief was exhibited to her; but can it be said, after what we saw on Friday, that no relief could have been adminis- tered to her 1 A short time since, a patient died in the other hos- pital, under similar circumstances ; the quantity of opium taken being so large, that vomiting could not be excited by any means which were employed. I was myself, on one occasion, called to a young lady who had taken two ounces of the tincture of opium. It was ten o’clock in the morning when I first saw her ; she was then comatose. I tried to excite vomiting by the sulphate of copper, giving it in as large doses as I could venture to administer ; which I have sometimes known to succeed when all other means have proved ineffectual. It was, however, unavailing in this case, and I sat by this young lady from ten o’clock in the morn- ing, until eight in the evening, watching the regular process to death, without being able to administer to her the least relief. Let me ask you then, gentlemen, whether an experiment of this kind is not in the highest degree interesting, and whether we are not infinitely indebted to the man who first suggested the means of administering relief under such afflicting circumstances ? I am happy to tell you that the gentleman to whom we are in- debted for this suggestion is now present; that he is ready to have the experiment made upon himself, and that so confident is he of the success with which it may be applied, that he would have no objection, if I could permit it, to take a large quantity of the tincture of opium in your presence this evening. I suggested, however, that a little coloured water would answer all the pur- poses of illustrating the use of the instrument. The syringe, wliich was brought to me the other day by a very ingenious man, Mr. Eeed, of Kent, is entirely a new invention, nor do I think the merit of that individual in the least degree diminished by what I