oy THE EORMATION OF ANEURISM. J 71 time. In cases of aneurism, the age is no objection to the operation. With respect to the sex in which aneurism chiefly occurs the male is certainly much more frequently the subject of it than the female. I should say that the proportion of males to females is about live to one; and if we take only cases of popliteal aneurism, the proportion of males would be consi- derably greater. When aneurisms do occur in females, they are generally internal. Females are rarely the subjects of aneurism in the limbs ; the reason of which is, that thejc do not exert them so much as the other sex. In the course of my practice, taking hospital and private practice together, 1 have seen about eight cases of popliteal aneurisms in the female. The number of popliteal aneurisms which I^have seen in the male is of course very considerable. On the Formation of Aneurisms. It is necessary that you should clearly understand the man- ner in which aneurism is produced. The first circumstance that takes place in an artery which is about to produce an aneurismal swelling is, that it becomes opaque, and slightly inflamed. A small yellow spot appears in the part where the aneurism is afterwards formed and there is a slight efflores- cence sunpunding it. The process of absorption afterwards takes place and thins the coat of the artery so that the tex- ture becomes like that of a fine web. At the same time that this takes place, nature begins to set up a process of defence, which is beautifully exemplified in a preparation (it was ex- hibited to the class) made from the first aneurism which I had an opportunity of dissecting. This was an incipient aneurism of the aorta ; you perceive that the coat of the artery has been absorbed, and opposite to the parts absorbed you observe a layer of adhesive matter, by means of which a defence is set up for the coat of the artery, and the progress of the disease for a time resisted. A covering is thus produced by the ad- hesive inflammation which shuts up the artery, so as to pre- vent the immediate escape of the blood. This preparation not only beautifully illustrates this process, but, by 'holding a can- dle on the opposite side of it, you will also observe the opacity which I have just described. As the coat of the artery be- comes absorbed, the cellular membrane is glued by this mat- ter to the outer surface of the artery. 'I'he next substance