ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 42 relief. I advised him to go to Oxford, and consult Mr. Grosvenor, This he did ; and as soon as Mr. Grosvenor saw him, and heard that his limb had been kept quiet, he told him to walk to the bottom of Christ Church Meadow, and then return and dine, which he really did. Friction was used in this case with the greatest success, for, within six wedks after he went to Oxford, he called upon me in town, quite recovered, and thanked me for recommending him to Mr. Grosvenor. Friction accelerates circulation and absorption; and the way in which Mr. Grosvenor recommended it to be done was, by ap- plying both hands to the joints, at the same time alternately moving them up and down. The late Mr. Hey, of Leeds, a man whose mind was free from every paltry prejudice, most eminent in his profession, and ever anxious for truth, had a son who met with a serious injury to his ankle-joint; after trying all that he could to relieve it, he sent him to Mr. Grosvenor ; and under his care, by the judicious ap- plication of friction, the actions of the joint were completely restored. Adhesive Inflammation. For a knowledge of this, we are indebted to that bright lumi- nary of our profession, the late Mr. John Hunter, a man who was abused, reviled, and laughed at, when living by the very per- sons who, now that they cannot any longer injure him, are ever loading his name with every species of commendation and praise. Adhesive inflammation is the process by which divided parts become united. Inflammation has a disposition to separate the blood into more parts than usually occur when drawn from a person in health. In health, it merely separates into serum and red particles ; but, when in a state of inflammation, if, after being drawn, it be al- lowed to remain undisturbed, it will separate into serum, red particles, and fibrin. The red particles, together with some fibrin, will be found at the bottom of the vessel; the fibrin im- mediately on the top of the red particles, forming what is called the buff of the blood ; and the serum will occupy the surround- ing space. The fibrin, having lost the red particles, contracts with great firmness, and when taken out almost resembles a piece of leather. It has been said, that the adhesive matter is albu- men ; but it has been proved not to be so. Doctor Eostock, wha was for several years at Guy’s Hospital, took great pains to in-