65 ON ABSCESSES. liberate the matter, and give relief to the constitution. The same practice should be pursued in abscess of the palm of the hand. The ulcerative process is useful to the animal economy, in removing extraneous bodies from the system. Thus a ball lodged in the body, and a ligature round an artery, are disengaged by the process of ulceration. It is useful also in the exfoliation of portions of bone, in separating parts which would otherwise remain in the body, perhaps for the remainder of life. In three or four months a considerable portion of exfoliated bone will be separated by the ulcerative process. You will find a case of popliteal aneurism in the other hospital, where the leg nas sloughed a little below the calf. Almost the whole of the leg has separated, except the tibia and fibula. A very small portion still remains to separate. By my advice nothing has been done to the living solids, and the process of nature is left to take its course. You will soon see that the bones themselves will sepa- rate by the process of exfoliation, and thus nature will herself perform the operation of amputation without loss of blood, or any danger to life. On Abscesses. I shall now proceed to the consideration of abscesses. An abscess is a collection of matter in a cyst, produced by inflammation. What happens in the formation of abscess is as follows :—First there is an inflammation of the adhesive kind in the cellular tissue, by which the different cells of the cellular membrane become filled with adhesive matter. A slight ulcerative process takes place, the inflammation still proceeding, and a little cavity is formed by the ulcerative process, a space being left for the effusion of pus, the result of the second stage of inflammation. A drop of matter is secreted into the cavity, and as soon as it is poured out, the pressure on the side occasions an increase of the ulcerative process, which adds to the cavity pre- viously formed. More matter is then produced, and the sur- rounding solids having a tendency to the ulcerative process, it U accumulated, so as to lead to absorption of the neighbouring parts. In the formation of abscess, the matter does not produce alisorption of all the parts around equally, but it excavates chiefly on the side towards the skin, and very little in the opposite direction ; a circumstance which led to the reflection, that matter bad no power of eroding, as was formerly supposed, when it was