574 SYPHILITIC DISEASES OF THE BONES. tient has pain and swelling in the evening, which last till two er three o’clock in the morning, when they disappear. This con- tinues, day after day, until an enlargement of the bone is produced, Nodes now and then occur in the parietal bones, very rarely in the os occipitis, and never in the os temporis, that bone being much covered by muscles and exposed to very little change of temperature. The os frontis, which is the most exposed of the bones of the head, is that in which the disease is most fre- quently seen. It sometimes happens, when this disease attacks the flat bones, that it is attended with a very considerable tumour and fluctuation. No incision should be made under such circumstances. Now and then, indeed, the suppurative process takes place, and a most serious disease is the result. When the skin is inflamed, and matter is formed beneath, it will be right to discharge it. It often happens, when matter is formed on the surface of the bone, that the suppurative process also takes place between the dura mater and the internal part of the skull. Death sometimes ensues from this cause ; but fatal consequences may often be prevented by trephining the patient. A patient in the other hospital had a node on the os frontis, which suppurated: the matter was discharged, but some time after the patient com- plained of violent pain in the head, which was succeeded by coma, so that there remained no doubt in the mind of the sur- geon of the hospital that the patient was the subject of pressure on the brain. The surgeon determined to trephine him ; and on raising a portion of exfoliating bone, a quantity of matter directly issued beneath. The old surgeons were in the habit of perforat- ing the bone, for the purpose of discharging the matter formed be- neath. The best mode of saving the life of the patient, however, is to apply the trephine : and, by taking out a portion of the ex- foliating bone, give immediate relief to the brain, by removing the pressure produced by the matter formed between the dura mater and the bone. There is a specimen on the table, taken from a case in which the operation was successful. The man died, many weeks after the operation, in a comatose state ; and, upon examination after death, it appeared that matter hud formed under the sagittal suture, which pressed upon the brain, and was the cause of death. He was relieved by the first operation, and he would probably have been relieved again by similar treatment, but there was not sufficient evidence of the existence of matter to justify a repetition of the operation. Whenever you are called