652 FRACTURES OF THE THIGH-BONE. examinations which I have made of transverse fractures of the cervix femoris within the capsule, I have had my opinion con- firmed, as I have not met with a single instance in which bony union had taken place. I would not maintain its impossibility but what I wish to be understood to say is, that if it ever does happen, it is an extremely rare occurrence, and that I have never yet met with a single example of it. Whilst, to support a con- trary opinion, only a single instance has been produced, having the shadow of plausibility ; and in this case the same appearances were found in both the thigh-bones, and even these resembled what I have often observed in the dead body, arising from a softened state of the bones. There are several reasons which may be assigned for the want of ossific union in the transverse fracture of the cervix within the ligament. The^rrt is a want of the proper apposition of the fractured ends of the bone. It is scarcely possible to preserve the parts in apposition even for a few hours, and the slightest change of position produces an instant contraction of the large and powerful muscles passing from the pelvis to the thigh, so that the ends of the bone become immediately displaced. This is also the case in fractures of the patella, where, notwithstanding all our efforts to prevent the retraction of the muscles, it very seldom happens that we can succeed in supporting a comple* approximation of the bones. The second reason for a want oi bony union is, the want of pressure of one bone on the other. Even if the limb were preserved at its proper length, and ad- mitting the capsular ligament not to be torn, this circumstance would operate to prevent an ossific union. There is a large quantity of synovial fluid secreted into the joint; thi? distends the ligament, and entirely prevents the contact of the bones. After a time this fluid becomes absorbed, but not until the in- flammatory process has ceased, and ligamentous matter has been effused into the joint from the surface of the synovial membrane. That cause which so powerfully conduces to the union of other fractures is wanting here, viz. the pressure which the muscles produce on the broken extremities of bones; for, if two broken bones overlap each other on that side on which they are pressed together, there will be an abundance of ossific matter deposited ; but on the opposite side, on which there is no pressure exerted, scarcely any change will be observed. But the third and princi- pal reason is, the almost entire absence of ossific union in the head of the bone when detached from its cervix. The principal