46 ADHESIVE inflammation—appearanc ciple in niinJ, then, gentlemen—always endeavour to effect union by adhesion. Suppose you were called to a compound fracture, what would you do I Endeavour, certainly, by bringing the parts together, to make it a simple one. Within these few days you have had an opportunity of witnessing the fatal consequences of hemorrhage in a case of compound fracture ; if the adhesive process had taken place, hemorrhage would have been prevented, constitutional ir- ritation kept off, and recovery, in all probability, rendered sure. It is the same in formidable operations; the Ca:sarean operation, which consists in making an incision in the course of the linea alba, for the purpose of extracting a fetus from the womb, is not dangerous, if the adhesive process take place; now and then, from hemorrhage and exhaustion, it proves serious ; but in most cases the danger is slight, if union by adhesion be procured. To exemplify this by the operation for cataract; in this operation a wound is made in the eye—more than half of the cornea is cut; if the adhesive process takes place within twelve hours, the flaps begin to adhere, and in twenty-four they are consolidated. Sup- pose, on the contrary, they do not—violent inflammation super- venes, and the result is destruction to the eye of the patient; the success of the operation depends, then, in this instance, on the adhesive process. In a person who had been in ill health, the inflammation might be too weak, and in another case it might be too strong •, suppuration would be the consequence in both in- stances ; the same effect results in the two cases, though pro- duced by very different causes. Again, in the operation for strangulated hernia, an opening is made into the hernial sac, which communicates with the cavity of the abdomen ; and, if the parts are not afterwards united by the adhesive process, tlie patient dies. In the operation for aneurism, it is adhesive in- flammation which saves life; a ligature is applied to the artery, a coagulum of blood forms, the adhesive process commences, fi- brin is poured out, and the internal coats of the arteiy are glued together; but for this, when the ligature gave way, hemorrhage would ensue. In the operation for the radical cure of hydrocele we have a beautiful opportunity of witnessing the effects of ad- hesive inflammation. After tlie water has been evacuated, a stimulating injection being thrown into the. cavity excites upon its sides an irritation ; inflammation is set up, adhesive matter