TREATMIKT OF GAKGREXE. ! 18 ^ ®^y. gentlemen, in ronstitutional ganp^ene, never amputate till the sloughing process has commenced, and healthy granu- lations are to be seen on the sore ; for if an operation be per- formed, the parts will assume exactly the same appearabce after as before it. It is curious to see how the loss of a slight quantity of blood will destroy life in these cases. When I was a dresser at these hospitals, during my apprenticeship, a case of sloughing opposite to the calf was brought in : Mr. Cline, my old master, on going round the wards, said to the dresser, that the projecting ends of the bone had better be removed. There were some gra- nulations between the bones, which, in sawing them off, the dresser did not observe, and therefore cut through them; little hemorrhage ensued; no ligature was applied ; yet, on the same night, the patient died. There was a case under the care of Mr. Forster, in the other hospital, on which he performed the opera- tion of amputation : there was gangrene on one foot, a slight gangrene on the nose, and the other foot. The leg was ampu- tated ; but the infection spread in the nose and foot, which, before the operation, were slightly gangrenous: then, gentlemen, it.is proper to consider that amputation should never be performed till the constitution is in a sound state, and healthy granulations have appeared. But with respect to gangrene from defective action, or acci- dent— W^hen called to a person labouring under gangrene, arising from accident or pressure on some important vessel, amputation may be performed without the least hesitation. A girl was brought to this hospital, who, in endeavouring to reach something from the chimney-piece, trod on the fender, which turned over on its edge, and she fell backwards; there was a compound dislocation of the elbow-joint, together with a wound of the brachial artery; this vessel was tied by the dresser, hemorrhage was arrested, gangrene soon afterwards appeared in the finger, when, nine days after the accident, the operation of amputation was performed above the elbow-joint, and the patient did e.xtremely well. A man was brought to Guy’s from Woolwich with popliteal aneu- rism : the aneurism had acquired a great size; there was a gan- grenous state of the limb below, so that it was thought there was no chance of saving his life by tying the artery; therefore amputation was performed Before the operation the pulse was from 120 to 130. In the evening, after the removal of the linilx