285 O.V STUUMOUS Ol'HTflALMIA. bark, for instance, always attending to the due action of the bowels, without which tonics would be useless, and even injuri- ous, to the patient. To children, bark may be given in the foim of extract, to the extent of from two to five grains, two or three times a-day. The eyes should not be bandaged, nor should the matter be allowed to collect j cleanliness is of great importance in the treatment of this form of the disease. With respect to the treatment of the sloughing cornea, some nicety will be required. M'hen you have ascertained that the sloughing process is com- mencing, from the hazy or opaque appearance of the cornea, the antiphlogistic must be changed for a gently stimulating and tonic plan of treatment. Weak astringent collyria should be used to favour the throwing of!' of the sloughs. Observe the process of the sloughing from time to time : if there is a firra'layer beneath, the patient is going on well, but if the sloughing has a flocculent soft, ash-coloured appearance, in addition to mild stimulants to the part, you should employ tonic remedies, such as bark. In the treatment of purulent ophthalmia, it is of great consequence to pay strict attention to the changes which take place in the symptoms, so that neither the depleting nor the tonic plan may blindly continued. The treatment should^ be regulated by te violence of the symptoms, and by the changes which take jlace as the disease passes from the acute to the chronic form. The errors in the treatment of this complaint may be com- prised in two words ; they consist either in continuing the de- pleting plan too long, or in not resorting to it sufficiently early. If the antiphlogistic plan be not adopted at a very early stage of the disease, the tonic treatment will afterwards be of no seivice ; and, on the other hand, if you continue the depleting plan too long, you will check the restorative process, and the beneficial effects which nature would otherwise assist in producing. LECTURE XXXIII. Ok Strumous Ophthalmia. Vtbumous, or scrofulous ophthalmia, is so called, because it is /net with in those persons who are of a scrofulous diathesis—it oc- curs in children, and not unfrequently in adults. The inflamma- tion is of the atonic character, that is, if I may be allowed to use a solecism, it is chronic from the commencement, it is one of atony from the beginning; and the reason why it is necessary to speak