S53 ON IRRITABLE CHANCRE. I employ under these circumstances, is the liquor ammonis ace- 1 tatis. In this way you will diminish the irritation ; and when the ! surrounding inflammation is got rid of, return to the mercury, faking care to discontinue it if the irritability should return. Some advise the compound decoction of sarsaparilla, and I believe that it has the power of diminishing, to a considerable degree, that irritability of constitution from which many persons suffer during an attack of syphilis ; with this view, give it by all means ; but as to its curing syphilis, I do not believe a word of it. You may suspend the syphilitic symptoms for a time, but they will soon re- appear ; and a person who trusts to this alone, will be a martyr to a disease which might have been easily cured. But more of this when making some general remarks on syphilis. If a person with irritable chancre is guilty of intemperance, addicts himself to any excess, or is careless of his health, the sore will slough, and often end in the destruction of the penis. Do not think that it is a rare occurrence for the penis to be destroyed by mercury; no, a chancre that has remained weeks in a healthy state, shall be- come irritable, and, by maltreatment, by the injudicious and im- proper use of mercury, shall slough, and end in the destruction of the penis; this is not a rare case, and is attributed to the vene- real disease, but, in reality, is an effect of the injudicious use of mercury. This is a true history of the case. When you see a sore take on the sloughing appearance, the treatment must be changed, the employment of mercury suspended ; what you do, is gently to stimulate the part by the nitric acid lotion ; there is no better application in this stage of the disease than this, and those who have attended to the practice of the hospital need not be told of this by me. From thirty to fifty drops of acid, in a quart of water, is the proportion in which you should use it; fomen- tations and poultices must sometimes be employed, but in general they are not good, as they ^soften and weaken the parts rather too much ; they are not sufficiently stimulating. Warm spirits of turpentine may sometimes be employed with benefit. You will be obliged to have recourse to a great number of applications, and frequently to change them, before any relief can be obtained. Most of you recollect a girl over in the other hospital, in Lydia’s w ard, who had sloughing of the pudendum ; seventeen or eighteen different applications were employed, but the same application seldom agreed with the .sore for five days in succession—it was obliged to be changed, and some other used.; the girl, however,