430 ON FUNGOID DISEASF/ OF THE TESTICLE. Hie course of a very few weeks, a tumour forms in the loins. The disease is at first unattended with pain ; but when the spermatic cord and the tumour in the loins become of great magnitude, the patient suffers considerably. In this respect it differs from true sclrrhus, in which the swelling never attains any great size. The fungoid swelling of the testicle sometimes increases to the weight of several pounds j the appearance of the surface is some- what livid ; the spermatic cord is loaded with blood, and in some parts you may feel a fluctuation as if there were a cyst within it; it becomes covered with tubercles of considerable size. The tu- mour has a soft, pulpy feel, readily yielding to pressure ; and on the first examination you might suppose the disease to be hydro- cele. I have known it frequently punctured on the supposition of a fluid being contained in it, when nothing but a little blood has followed the operation. It may be distinguished from hy- drocele in the following manner:—In the first place it Ls flatten- ed on the sides, and round on the fore part, whereas in hydro- cele it is pyriform ; if you squeeze any part of the fungoid tu- mour, the patient will complain of the pain arising from the com- pression of the testicle, which he will not do in hydrocele, unless you squeeze the posterior part of it j the fungoid tumour yields to the pressure of the finger, than fluctuates from one side to the other, as in hydrocele ; and, lastly, the great weight of the swel- ling when you lift up the sides, and the livid appearance of the scrotum, mark the malignant character of this disease. The disease often occurs in young people at about the age of puberty. I have seen it, m one instance, in a child four years old ; I showed you the other evening the testicle of this child, which was loaded with tubercles. The period of life at which it may be said usually to occur is between the age of seventeen and thirty-five. The disease is not confined to the testicle, but affects the other parts of the body in a great variety of situations. It differs from scrrihus chiefly in the swelling being of a soft kind : indeed it has been termed soft cancer, for it is in many respects, though not precisely, of tlie same nature with scirrhus. If you take blood from a person under this disease, you will find it so attenuated, that it will hardly coagulate; and if you have an op- portunity of seeing the adhesive process, you will find the inflam- mation scarcely supporting blood-vessels; what few vessels are pushed llirough the part assume the appearance of fungus. If you inject a fungoid testicle you will find it in some parts vas-