OV ASSESSES IN THE URETHRA, 515 pass turough it before any urine makes it escape ; at length, after the whole of the matter has been evacuated, the cause of the re- tention having been removed, the urine can tlien be treely ex- pelled from the bladder. It now and then occurs that the two last varieties of abscess I iiave mentioned, by being neglected, have led to the formation of fistula in ano ; the true character of the fistula will be learnt by observing that there run from it at different periods a few drops of urine ; this will, of course, con- vince vou it is connected with the bladder. Treatment.—Abscesses of the lacunae of the urethra arising from gonorrhoeal inflammation should be continually poulticed until the matter is discharged. After you are satisfied that it has once forrhed, it is not right to let the abscesses break of them- selves. When, therefore, the hard knot that you feel in the ure- thra becomes converted into a fluctuating tumour connected with the skin covering it, the sooner you open it the better. When the abscesses are situated in the lacunas opposite to the scrotum, the treatment must be exceedingly prompt; for if it be not, you will endanger the life of the patient. Into these abscesses make early and free incisions ; let your incisions be of considerable size, and a great deal larger externally than internally. I generally make these incisions in the middle of the septum, at the anterior part of the scrotum. Now, when you are called to cases of abscesses in perinteo, it is necessary that you should be particularly deci- sive in the management of these complaints, for the purpose of guarding against that trouble.sorae and dangerous disease, fistula in perinaeo , for owing to a variety of circumstances, it is extremely difficult to cure. When called to a case of abscess in perinajo, the best plan of treatment that you can pursue, is immediately to intro- duce i catheter, made of elastic gum, (which is much less likely to injure the patient than a metallic one;) this will relieve the re- tention, and obviate much irritation ; apply leeches and evapo- rating lotions to the swelling, aud keep the bowels open by cool- ing laxatives. Well, if these measures should not succeed in dispelling the tumour, the moment that you can distinctly feel fluctuation, you should make such an opening with the lancet as will allow the matter to escape, to prevent its burrowing the skin, and producing additional mischief; it will save the patient much pain, and will probably lead to the speedy eiire of the disea.se, which might otherwise prove not only protracted, but faul. Ke nember, you are not only to open the ab.scess early, -2 L 2