ON HERNIA. 255 the appearances which the hernial sac assumes. ^ ou aie to in- troduce a small director into the orifice, and divide the stric- ture by making a slit upwards with a probe-pointed bistoury. t LECTURE XXX. Of iNGurNAL Hernia in the Female. This disease is of less frequent occurrence in the female than in tlie male, in consequence of the smallness of the parts through which the ligamentum rolundura descends. The abdominal ring is small, the passage of the ligamentum rotundum from the abdomen much less than in the male, and the inguinal canal, upon the whole, less. Flernia in the female is therefore compa- ratively I are. When it occurs, the course v^hich it takes is similar to that of inguinal hernia in the male, comparing the ligamentum rotundum in the former case to the spermatic cord in the latter. It begins midway between the spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis ; its origin being situated on the external side of the epigastric artery. It then enters the inguinal canal, passes along the canal, under the internal oblique and transver- salis muscles, till it reaches the abdominal ring, where it emerges. Hernia in the female is commonly small, especially in the labia •, the sac is much more considerable above the abdo- minal ring than below it. On this account there is considerable difficulty in the performance of an operation for this hernia. When you dissect a hernia in the female, you will find, immedi- ately below the labia, a fascia covering (he hernia similar to that in the male : the abdominal ring gives off a fascia, which descends into the labia. W'hen the hernia is reducible, ,it requires a truss si- milar to that used for the male ; as it is generally small, it will give way to pressure after about a twelvemonth’s use, but it will be right to continue the truss for two years longer. Inguinal hernia is more commonly reducible in the female than in the male ; in fact, I have never seen an instance of irreducible hernia in the female. If you should meet with one which contained omentum, you should endeavour so to apply the truss as to promote absorpt on of the omentum, and produce an adhesion between it and the internal part of the sac. When, from the gurgling noise, you ascertain that intestine has descended, it will be desirable that a truss should be constructed with a hollow in the pad, so to embrace the hernia, and prevent the increase of its bulk.