471 CANCER LABII. which sometimes exists between the two fissures. That how- ever, is not the best plan; indeed, it is a very bad one. Always allow that portion of skin to remain, you will find it a great support, and of considerable utility in rendering the operation perfect. Therefore you are to pare the edges ot this portion of skin in the same manner as you were directed in the first operation. But you must not, when a hare-lip is double, ope- rate at both sides on the same day. You must let one side get well and then you may operate on the other. It now and then happens that the jaw will project very much in these cases, and will sometimes even shoot forward, and be attached to the tip of the nose. When the jaw does project, the deformity may be very much diminished after the wounds have quite healed, by binding, on the most prominent part, a flat p’.ece of lead, in- closed in lint; it may be readily confined to the situation by tape or black ribbon carried round the back of the head. When at- tached to the tip of the nose it should be separated from that part, and the operations then performed as before, that is, one deferred till the other is well; and the deformity will be removed by adopting the method just mentioned. We sometimes perform an operation on the under lip similar to the one I have described to you for single hare-lip, in conse- quence of CiNCSR Labii, Which disease generally arises from the use of a pipe, and the manner in which it happens is this :—the adhesive nature of the clay of which the pipe is made, causes it to adhere to the lip; at length the cuticle becomes torn off, and the continued irritation frets the sore into true cancerous disease. I am quite sure that it is produced in this way, for I never saw the disease in the upper lip more than once. That the disease is of a scirrhous nature, even at the beginning, any surgeon must be satisfied : it is hard, has a bleeding surface, everted edges; and, as it proceeds in its destructive course, communicates disease to the glands ; there is likewise felt in it, at particular periods, the most dreadful pain. I have seen in these cases all the foregoing real cancerous symp- toms. An operation for the complete removal of the disease is the patient’s only real hope of succour. The oxyde of arsenic is said to have cured the disease—to have completely eradicated