24S ON HERNIA. remainder to the mouth of the sac to plug up the opening. AUa cutting away the omentum, numerous vessels will frequentlf bleed ; these should be drawn out with a small pair of forceps and lacerated ; the laceration of the vessels often stops the bleed ing. When the vessels continue to bleed, ligatures should be applied; care should be takeu that the ligatures are merely put on the vessels, and that no omentum is included. 'I’he liga ftires must be let to hang out of the hernial sac, and in three o. four days they will separate. When the omentum adheres to the internal part of the hernial sac, considerable freedom may be used in destroying the adhesions; but 1 would not advise the use of the knife; just tear through those first in front, with the finger, and then spread the liberated omentum out, and lastly tear through the adhesions which confine the omentum to the back of the sac ; ligatures must be applied to the bleeding vessels. When the adhesions are torn through, and the vessels secured, the omentum must be returned as mentioned above : take care that all the vessels are secured and that hemorrhage has entirely ceased; else when the omentum is returned the warmth will bring on the bleeding. * * Omentum in a state op Gangrene. When the omentum is in a gangrenous state, it will be known by the blood coagulating in the veins, and this is the criterion whether it is to be returned or not. To ascertain this, pass your fingers along the surface of the omentum, and if the blood be coagulated in the veins, there will be a crispy feel. The omen- tum in a state of gangrene has nothing of the blue appearance seen on gangrenous surfaces, nor any of the green spots to be found on the intestine in a similar state. When the omentum is gangrenous, excision is the treatment always adopted ; cut away the omentum close to the mouth of the hernial bag, and leave the remainder to plug up the opening ; the rlfessels must be secured. The practice of the old surgeons used to be, to apply a ligature on the part just above the gangrene, a practice that one scarcely knows how sufficiently to condemn. What is the operation for strangulated hernia performed for 1 to accomplish what object? Why, to relieve the omentum or intestine from its strangulated state. Under the old plan, no sooner was this done, than a stric- ture, worse than the one which existed before the operation, was produced ; consequently the continuation of the symptoms and ultimately destruction of life used to be the cdhsequence. The