ON ULCEUS. 88 gently stimulating, so m not to repress the growth of granulations, but to form a soft bed to which they may spring. The effect of the poultice is, by its wannth and moisture, to encourage such a degree of action as may promote the rising of the granulatioits. When the granulations have risen to the edge of the sore, then the practice must be altered ; and the object is to adapt the gra- nulations of the edge to those of the surface. For this purpose adhesive plaister or unctuous substances are employed, with a view of pressing down the granulations of the edge of the sore on those of the surface, so as to make them unite. These are the principles of treatment in the cure of ulcers. We first encourage the growth of granulations by the application of the gentle sti- mulus of poultices, and when the granulations have risen to the edge of the surrounding skin, we press down the granulations of the edge on those of the surface, either by the application of ad- hesive plaister or unctuous substances. The more unctuous such substances are the better j for the vessels will have a greater fa- cility in shooting towards the centre, and the granulations em- bedded in this unctuous matter will more readily extend along the surface of the sore. Such are the principles of treatment applicable to ulcers in the healthy statewe shall now proceed to consider the impediments to the healing process which frequently occur, and which render a different mode of treatment necessary. The first circumstance which renders the cure of ulcers diffi- cult, is- the too prominent state of the granulations producing what is vulgarly called proud flesh. In this state, the granula- tions rising considerably above the edge of the surrounding skin, are necessarily prevented from suiting with those of the surface. In order to prevent the continuance of this state of the sore, the common treatment is to apply dry lint to the centre of the sore, and some unctuous substance to the edges. The lint by its pressure, prevents the growth of granulations in the centre, while the unctuous substance allows the granulations on the edge to proceed and inosculate with those on the surface of the sore. The lint should not be applied to the edge of the sore, for if it be, the granulations will be prevented from proceeding towards the centre of the sore. The nitrate of silver, and the sulphate of copper, are employed for the purpose of destroying luxuriant granulations near the edges of the