51S SPASMODIC AFFECTION'S boy of only four years of age, the subject of it. Common acci- dents, as fracture and duslocation, will sometimes give ri<e to spasmodic stricture; even an operation for aneurism will gene- rate such a degree of irritation as to produce it. Spasmodic stricture is generally unattended with pain. I men- tion this the more particularly, because the inflammatory stricture and the spasmodic have been confounded ; whereas, the one being unaccompanied with pain, and the other having it distressingly severe, is surely sufficient to mark the diseases as completely distinct: even an irritated state of mind, or a mind deeply en- gaged in study, will occasionally influence the nervous system to such a degree, as to produce spasmodic stricture of the urethra. This complaint usually comes on of a sudden, is unmixed with pain, and the first notice that a patient has of it is, that he ex- periences a difficulty in voiding his urine. Treatment of Spasmodic Stricture.—You should introduce a bougie, letting it steal gently along the urinery passage ; and, when it arrives at the-strictured part, there let it rest for a short time ; after this you should gradually push it forward, using only a very slight force, but continuing that force until you have suc- ceeded in passing the stricture. Let the bougie rest for a minute or two in the strictured part, and then withdraw it; directly that YOU do so, the person will be enabled freely to pass his urine. If you have not a bougie at hand, you may employ a catheter, you it will answer equally well; you must take care, however, to use it gently, as I have just described. Other means are adopted, SIS the exhibition of calomel and opium ; antimony has also been given with a view of producing sickness and general relaxation ; the warm bath has been also employed with the same view, as has the tobacco glyster. Mr. Cline employed the muriated tinc- ture of iron with decided advantage ; he gave five or ten drops every two or three hours, and it succeeded, when every other means had been found unsuccessful. I have already mentioned to you that the warm bath is a remedy employed for this com- plaint. I now tell you, that the cold bath has likewise been had recourse to, and with the most decided advantage; at this appa- rent contradiction you probably are surprised ; however, such is the fart. Mr. Robert Pew, when studying at these hospitals, was attending a gentleman in llishopsgate-sireet, who had spas- modic stricture. Mr. Pew (and I mention it to his credit, for it showed a reflecting mind), lecollecting that an immersion of his