676 ON SYPHILIS and the use of JdERCURY. will be sufficient for the cure of this disease. I shall, in the next evening’s lecture, close the subject of syphillis by some general remarks on that disease. LECTURE LXV. I shall, to night, deviate from my usual custom, and give this evening’s Lecture from notes. The subjects of it will be. General Kemarks on Syphilis, and on the Use of Mercury. The symptoms of syphilis are divided into primary and second- ary. Chancre and bubo come under *he former denomination; and, under the latter, sore throat, eruptions, nodes, and diseases of the nose : these secondary symptoms are the consequences of the absorption of the venereal poison into the system, and its circulation through the blood. Some parts of the body are incapable of being acted upon by the venereal poison, as the brain, heart, and abdominal viscera ; indeed, the venereal poison does not appear to be capable of ex- ercising its destructive influence on the vital organs, or those parts most essential to the welfare and continuance of life ; but the bones, muscles, tendons, and skin, readily partake of its ma- lignant nature." As some parts of the body more readily take on the venereal action than others, so some individuals are much sooner than others infected by the venereal poison. Many men (to their shame be it spoken) make a boast of having kept every description of female society, and yet having always escaped from any attacks of the venereal disease, gonorrhoea as well as chancre. The time at which the secondary symptoms usually appear, is from eight to sixteen weeks, sometimes occurring between those two periods; eight weeks may be taken as the earliest pe- riod, and sixteen as the most remote; but, in both respects, there is a large number of exceptions, for the secondary symptoms are continually appearing at an earlier date than the eighth week, and at a much later one than the sixteenth. ,\s a general re- mark, 1 may observe, that the tenth week is the most usual time at vvhicli they appear ; sometimes the appearance of the second- ary symptoms is protracted, in consequence of the system la- bouring or suflering under the irritation of another disease, as diarrhoea for example. In my notes I have written down a num-