DISLOCATIONS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 667 2 fa Dislocations of the Knee-Joint: And, first, of Dislocations of the Patella. The patella may be dislocated in three directions—outwards, inwards, and upwards. I'he bone is most frequently thrown on the external condyle, and produces there a great projection; the patient is also unable to bend the knee, and these circumstances readily point out the nature of the injury. It is most frequently produced by a person falling with his knee turned inwards, and his foot at the same time turned outwards, and the action of the muscles in the at- tempt made to prevent the fall draws the patella over the exter- nal condyle of the femur. It generally happens in those persons who have naturally a little inclination of the knee inwards. The dislo- cation on the internal condyle is less frequent, and happens from a blow on the outer side of the patella, received in a fall on some projecting body. To reduce either of these dislocations, you are to place the patient in the recumbent posture, and let the leg be raised, by lifting it at the heel, by which you ralax the extensor muscles of the thigh in the greatest possible degree; you then press on that edge of the bone which is furthest from the articu- lation, and this raises the inner edge of the bone over the condyle of the femur, and it is directly drawn into its proper position by the action of the muscles. Evaporating lotions of spirit and water a e to be employed, and afterwards, say in two or three days, bandages should be applied. In the dislocation of the patella upwards, the ligamentum patellte is tom through, and the patella is drawn on the upper and fore- part of the thigh-bone. The marks of this accident are at once decisive; for, besides the easy motion of the patella from side to side, a depression is felt above the tubercle of the tibia, from the laceration of the ligament. The patient loses the power of bear- ing on the limb, ^d a considerable degree of inflammation usually succeeds. You should, in the treatment of this case, apply leeches, and afterwards evaporating lotions, from four to seven dajrs; then apply a roller round the foot and leg, and keep them completely extended by a splint behind the knee; then buckle a leather strap above the knee, and to this let another strap be fastened, which is to be passed under the foot, and buckled to the opposite side of the circular strap. '1 he bone is in this way drawn down to the ruptured ligament, and a union consequently takes place. The patient should, at the same time, continue in the sitting posture so as to relax the extensors of the leg which arc insetted into the patella,