636 DISLOCATIONS OF THE FINGERS AND TOES. never advise you to divide the ligament of the joint, in order to facilitate its reduction. No, I have seen too much evil atlending it ever to recommend such a practice. The dislocations of the toes are rather more difficult to reduce than the fingers, as the phalanges are much shorter, and the parts leas easily moved, from their being less stiff. A toe or finger is sometimes thrown out of its natural situation by the flexor tendon and theca, or even the palmar fascia becoming contracted, as the effect of chronic inflammation, from excessive action of the parts, as in rowing or ploughing. When the thecae are contracted, nothing should be attempted, as no operation will succeed; but, when a thickened band of fascia appears to be the cause of the contrac- tion, it may easily be divided, by a pointed bistoury introduced through a very small wound in the integument. The finger should be then extended, and kept in this position by a splint. Dislocations of the Thumb.—On account of the numerous strong muscles inserted into the thumb, its dislocations are very difficult to reduce. These muscles necessarily offer great resistance when the attempt is made to restore the parts to their proper situations, and I consider, therefore, the dislocations of the thumb the most difficult to reduce, especially if any time be allowed to elapse after the accident before the attempt at reduction be made. The metacarpal bone is sometimes dislocated from the trape- zium. I have seen many cases of this accident, and in most of them I have found that it has been thrown inwards, between the trapezium and the root of the metacarpal bone of the fore-finger. Considerable pain and swelling are produced by this accident, but it may be detected by the protiiberance formed towards the palm of the hand, by the thumb being bent backwards, and not allowing of its being brought towards the little finger. What I have before said respecting the relaxation of muscles inserted into a dislocated part, is particularly necessary to be attended to here. You know that the flexor muscles are much stronger than the extensors, and you will, therefore, very much facilitate the reduction by giving the thumb a little inclination towards the palm of the hand; in this manner the flexors may be relaxed, and their resistance diminished. The extension must be steadily continued for a considerable time, as no sudden violence will effect the reduction. The mode of doing this I shall describe presently. If the bone cannot bo reduced by simple extension, it is better to leave the case to the degree of recovery which nature will in time produce, than run any risk of injuring the