84 ON CRANU1.ATION. the vessels have to elongate much less from the edge to the centre in a longitudinal than in a circular sore. The form, there- fore, has an influence on the readiness with which cicatrization takes place. Sores are often very difficult to heal, from their situa- tion. Thus, if a sore be situated at the back of the leg, there will often be great difficulty in healing it. Indeed, such a sore can only be healed by raising the heel, and so loosening the skin, in order to give it a power of being drawn in, to form a new cicatj'ix. By this means the vessels are more readily elongated, and continually draw the skin nearer the centre of the sore. It appears, then, that the form and situation of the sore have a very considerable influence on the healing power. Here is a model in plaister, on the table, representing the case of a patient who had been severely burnt, and in which extensive deformity had supervened on the cicatrization of the wounds. The chin had become united to the breast, the arms to the sides, and the upper arm to the fore-arm. Now, in looking at a case like this, some of you might be in- duced to exclaim. How abominably inattentive must the medical man have been who had the care of this patient, for all these consequences might have been prevented! If you said this, your censure would be culpable ; you have no right to say so; for it is a case that may happen to any of you. Deformities of this kind generally arise after the process of healing is completed j they are the effects of the contraction of the cicatrices, and not of the contraction of the skin at the time of the accident. Here the skin is contracted so as to pull down the chin, and evert the lip, so that the saliva runs over the surface of the breast, and is constantly excoriating it. All these results proceed, not from the production of the new skin, but from the contraction of the cicatrices after the production. I say this from having seen, among many other cases of the kind, the case of a child who was a short time since admitted into Guy’s. In consequence of the contraction of the cicatrices, the upper arm adhered to the fore- arm, and the thumb was drawn back so as to be immovably joined to the upper arm. Cuie.— 1 will mention another case of this kind. Some time ago, a young gentleman, who was playing with fire-works, happened to be slightly burnt in the forehead. His father, who w as a v ery intelligent man, showed considerable anxiety, and e^;pressed his apprehensions at the time, that some horrible