196 ON- HYDROCELE. of two swellings, a portion of the water collects above the ring, giving rise to a tumour there ; thus a swelling is formed above and below, the narrowest part being at the ring. A surgeon unacquainted with this circumstance, upon looking at such a case would say, “ Oh ! this is not hydrocele, but hernia,” and he would be strengthened in that opinion by seeing the upper part dilate upon coughing, m' consequence of the im- pulse that it would receive from the contraction of the abdomi- nal muscles. Its transparency and lightness, however, would readily enable him to distinguish this complaint from hernia. Why, this very day a gentleman came to me under the following circumstances : when he came into my room, he informed me that he had been twice tapped, and that he did not think the ope- rations had been well performed : I looked at the swelling, and found that it extended to the abdominal ring; I examined the part very carefully, and requested him to cough ; the moment he did so, the swelling was evidently forced down; well, said I, this may be hydrocele, but I shall not tap you ; I requested a candle to be brought; no transparency was observable ; I de- sired him to lie down upon the chairs, when I found it to be hernia, and reduced it. This, then, ‘hows how cautious we ought to be in such cases, before we introduce the trocar, for I might have been misled by the history of this case, and proceeded at once to have performed the operation of tapping: had I done so, in all probability, the trocar would have passed into this gentleman’s intestimes. It was a hernia which had succeeded hydrocele. Another variety met with, is that in which a fluctuating swell- ing will remain, after a considerable portion of water has been re- moved. The first case of this kind that I saw was sent to me by Dr. Chester, and Mr. Roberts, of Gloucester. The patient had been under the care of those gentlemen, and had been lapped tor hydrocele: a quantity of water was drawn off, but still a swelling remained. He was sent to town for me to see him, at which time the hydrocele had become nearly as large as before. I'pon hearing the history of this case, the impression upon my mind was, that when the operation for tapping had been performed, the 05 erator had let the canula slip out of the tunica vaginalis, which circumstance, I thought, had led to the retention of a portion of the fluid. Well, believing this, I passed in the trocar and canula myself; some water came away, but not all; thi»