ON SUPPURATION. 51 fully avoided. A piece of lint being wetted in the patient’s blood is to be put over the wound, and over this strips of adhe- sive plaister. Linen cloths are to be laid over these, and kept constantly wet tvith the liq. plumb, acet., and spirit vini; a splint is to be placed behind the joint, to secure perfect rest. In the operation for hare-lip, it is by the adhesive inflamma- tion the wound becomes united, and the deformity removed. The effusion of adhesive matter, by unloading the vessels of the part, has the effect of reducing the inflammation, so that the process generally terminates as soon as this effect is pro- duced. LECTURE VIII. On SurpunATioN. SuppcBATioN is the formation of purulent matter from the secreting orifices of the blood-vessels, which matter is named pus. It is formed in cavities produced in the body by a process of absorption, as in abscesses ; it is found also as a secreted fluid on the surfaces of membranes, or upon granulating surfaces. The fonriation of matter is often attended with severe consti- tutional irritation; there are rigors succeeded by heat, ^^'hen, therefore, you see a person who has had severe inflammation, and you wish to know if suppuration heis taken place, you ask him if he has had a cold shivering ; for this is generally the fore- runner of the purulent secretion. If the inflammation be exten- sive, or seated in any vital organ, the constitutional disturbance will be very great, and the shivering, which indicates the forma- tion of matter, will be very severe, and followed by a powerful re-action. Whilst the rigor continues, the blood collects about the larger vessels in the neighbourhood of the heart, and in the heart itself; at length this organ becomes stimulated to action, and sends the blood with considerable force to all parts of the body, but more jrarticularly to that part where pus is to be se- creted. A rigor, therefore, Ls merely a constitutional effort to- wards accomplishing the object that nature has in view. When pus Ls easily produced, as upon mucus surfaces, there is no rigor whatever. When there is an attempt to produce matter, there is an un- usual sensation of uneasiness in the part, together with a blush c 2