ON llYDROCELK, 2C2 to do this is by grasping the tumour at the posterior part, so as to keep it tense wliere the trocar entered. 1 generally use a tro car and canula of small size. Some persons recommend a lancet and probe to be employed; this is mere nor.sense : if they had ever performed the operation, they would not do so. Such suggestions can only emanate from people who are destitute of experience and knowledge. If you wish to accomplish this operation bloodlessly, to prevent internal bleeding, and the formation of haematocelc, keep the pa- tient, at the time you are doing it in the erect position. There is no necessity for any after application j on the following day the wound will be well. It requires repetition in proportion to the dropsical tendency existing in the person. In some it will be necessary once a month ; in others, once in three months j but, generally speaking, the usual time is every six months. Insignificant as this operation appears, it has been Known to cause the destruction of life. Two instances are within my own knowledge. One of the cases was operated upon by Mr. Green, who resides a few miles from town, and the other by myself. Mr. Green’s case was published in the journals, therefore 1 need not scruple to mention it; but Mr. Green possesses too much man- liness to regard a notice of an unsuccessful case, and it must be a mean despicable mind that would. The case is as fol- lows :—An elderly man applied to Mr. Green with a hydro- cele, which he a few days afterwards tapped. The following day the man’s business led him to walk to town; on the next day his scrotum became inflamed ; the third there was a gangrenous spot; and, on the fifth day from the operation, he died. The other case was the father of one of our dressers. I per- formed the operation on a Saturday ; the following day he walked to Pancras church ; and on the Monday inflammation began to show itself in the scrotum, when he sent for me ; on the Thurs- day gangrene had taken place, and on the Saturday week after the operation he died. Let me advise you, then, whenever you perform this operation in old persons, to make them keep their beds for a few days after- wards. Some individuals are destroyed by the slightest touch •; while others, on the contrary, are not killed, do what we will to them.