382 ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. being removed. This is deposited between the cellular tissue, in the same manner as the substance of the testicle is between septa. Treatment of Scirrhous Tubercle. ^ now come to the treatment of scirrhous tubercle ; and first let me observe, that we possess no medicine which has any power over the disease—none which has any specific influence on it; and those who say that they liave in their possession e medicine which is a specific in this complaint are empirics, and men en- tirely lost to all sense of shame, honour, and honesty. Our pro- fession boasts of no such remedy, and the medical man has still to seek it. We have no medicine that will cure this disease ; and it is our duty, as professional men, to say so, in order to prevent the baneful influence of those quacks who are a disgrace to the age in which they live, and who are constantly advertising nos- trums for the cure of cancer. Honestly, then, let me state to you the fact: we have no medicine that can cure this disease ; but I will tell you all that can be done by the administration of internal re- medies in it. If a patient applies to you with scirrhous tubercle and her general health is in a disordered state, you may retard the progress of the disease by giving alterative medicines, and thus pro- long her days. You should never perform an operation for the re- moval of a breast, unless the patient has undergone a course of me- dicine. Another view with which medicine is to be given is this : if an operation has been performed, you should alter the state of the constitution by the exhibition of alterative medicines, such a-s Plummer’s pill, and the compound decoction of sarsaparilla; or what I prefer, infusion of gentian, with soda and rhubarb; by these means you will improve the constitution, and lessen the chances of the disease returning. You may alter the consti- tution, but I defy any man to disperse scirrhous tubercle when it has formed. No ms n of common honesty will pretend to do it. Thus, all we can do by medicine is to change the state of the constitution prior to an operation, so as to prepare the patient for it; and when an operation has been performed, we can give al- teratives so as to lessen the chance of its returning. But medi- cine will not have any effect on scirrhous tubercle when it is formed ; not one tittle. You may take away the surrounding in- flammation by local means, but you can remove no part what- ever of the scirrhous inflammation. I should have observed just now when speaking of the causes of this complaint, that one of