ON ULCEUS. 93 This is the medifine which will agree best with the patient. He must be well nDuinshed, or at least he must have as much as his digestive powers will allow ; port wine also must be given, and spirits must be allowed to those who have been addicted to their use. By brandy and opium I have seen these sores cured ; in fact, they are our sheet-anchors in the treatment of these ul- cers. But more of this in another lecture, as I shall have to speak of gangrene again. The next kind of ulcer that I come to is the Irritable Ulcer. This sore is extremely difficult to cure. How then are you to know it 1 ^\'hen you find the granulations most unequal; in some parts being very high, in others very low.' The discharge from the wound consists of a bloody pus. I do not know what to compare it to better (though it is not quite so good) than strawberry cream. {A laugh.) It is pus mixed with the red particles of blood. This sore may be known by the in- equality of the granulations, the nature of the discharge, and the great pain and tenderness in the part; so that the patient, when touched in that part, is like a sensitive plant. As you will be sure to find considerable difficulty in the treatment of these sores, I will tell you, the best application that you can make use of is one compounded of the cetaceous ointment, gray oxide of mercury, and powdered opium:— R. Unguent Cetacei Hydr. Mit. a jss. Pulv. Opii. 3j. M, Fiat unguentum. This must be spread on lint, and applied to the part twice a-day. What are the internal remedies you ought to exhibit in these cases, gentlemen !—calomel and opium: these are the medicines on which you aie to rely; a grain and a half of calomel and a grain of opium morning and evening. Nothing will be of so much service as this medicine. It should not be carried 80 far as to produce ptyalisni, or to affect the constitution severely ; but it should be given so as to restore the secretions, and to diminish the action of the nervous system. The calo- mel will do the first, and the opium will lessen the nervous irritability. The treatment of inflammation has been improved of late by calomel and opium. The effect of this medicine in chronic inflammation may be seen in the disease called iritis. Here calomel and opium may be exhibited; nor should a de-