ON OPERATION FOR STONE IN THE FEMALE. .'fC)7 open the urethra with the greatest ease. I shall now proceed to the Operation for Stone in thf. Female. And I here am a little afraid of my Iriend, for 1 shall have occasion to mention some odd stories. [A laugh.] Calculi form as readily in the female as in the male; but the female is much less frequently the subject of the operation of lithotomy, in con- sequence of the shortness of'the meatus urinarius, and the ease with which stones pass away from it. I think the symptoms of stone in the female are more urgent than those in the male. It is horrible to witness the sufferings which a woman experiences in consequence of this disease. She has a dreadful pain at the extremity of the meatus urinarius, and in addition to tms there is a forcing down of all the lower parts of the pelvis, as if they were about to protrude; a frequent disposition to make water; and all the pains suffered during delivery. There is generally a prolapsus uteri, and a discharge of bloody urine. In addition to these symptoms, there is almost constantly an incontinence of urine; a great urgency to discharge it, and an incapacity to re- tain it. The constant excoriation of the parts from this cause keeps the patient in a most offensive state. There is some variety as to the situation in which stones are found in the female ; they are sometimes lodged in the urethra and vagina. A curious in- stance of this kind happened to my old friend. Mi. Cline, who took me, when I was an apprentice, to the first operation for stone in the female which I witnessed. In this case he felt a Slone just at the beginning of the meatus urinarius at the neck of the bladder, and on passing his finger into the vagina he found a portion of stone in that situation. He removed the portion of stone from the vagina, and then dilating the meatus urinarius with the gorget, he extracted the other portion of stone. The two portions formed a sort of chi.in-shot, a bar between the ure- thra and vagina communicating between them. You must be upon your guard, however, gentlemen, against imposition in the female , for extraneous bodies often find their way into the mea- tus urinarius of the female in a very extraordinary manner. Stones of very considerable size will pass by the meatus urinarius in the female, without the necessity of performing an operation. Here 13 a specimen of a large stone which passd from a patient of Mr. Giraud, a surgeon of great respectability. The patient had suf- fered for a length of time fronx this stone ; when one night, on