ON INJURIES OF THE IIEaD. 127 I witnessed a similar circumstance in the case of a German, who was a sugar-baker in this town, and who-had compression of the brain, arising not from any injury by violence, but from pressure in consequence of the formation of matter. This man could speak English extremely well before the compression: but as the compression increased from the accumulation of matter, he lost his English entirely, and I could only communicate with him through the medium of an interpreter. At last he lost the power of speaking even in his native language, and he died in consequence of the accumulation of matter. It is curious to observe the gra- dual change which takes place in the intellectu^ faculties, as al- terations occur in the brain ; and the gradual diminution of ideas which have been more recently acquired, until at length they become totally obliterated. Old persons are observed to be fond of relating anecdotes of their youth, forgetting incidents of more recent occurrence ; and the change which takes place in the in- tellect from injuries of the brain is verj' similar to the effects of age. The patient becomes, as it were, suddenly old, loses impres- sions of a recent date, and is sensible only of those which he has received in his earlier years. Such is the state of mind very fre- quently produced by compression of the brain. \Vith respect to the state of the brain under concussion, when the concussion is not extremely violent, there is merely a change in the circulation of the brain. A sudden shock will so far disturb the circulation of this organ as to produce diminution of the powers of the mind, as well as to impair the functions of the body. I shall have occasion to mention to you a most extraordinary case, in which the functions of the mind were suspended from an interruption of circulation in the brain, for upwards of thirteen months ; the patient having, as it were, drunk of the cup of Lethe during all that period. Any change of the circulation in the brain alters, in some degree, the powers of mind and body ; but if the agitation be very consider- able, the powers of the mind will be for a time suspended. Thus, when a person is said to be stunned, there is a sudden alteration of the circulation in the brain, and a corresponding loss of sensi- bility ; but when the circulation is restored by the means which I shall presently point out to you, the powers of the mind return with those of the body. When the concussion .is very violent, a lesion of the brain takes place ; but when it is slight, no appear-