ON HERNIA. 229 symptoms of peritoneal inflammation, in the tenderness of the abdomen upon pressure, would say, that blood ought not lo be taken in such a case, and that if it were, the patient would be destroyed. Gentlemen, the reverse of this is the truth ; you must not be deterred by these symptoms from taking away blood in consider- able quantities. The strength of the patient’s pulse will be in- creased instead of being diminished by this course, and in pro- portion as he is young and athletic, a larger quantity of blood must be taken away. The next change in the symptoms of strangulated hernia is, that in addition to the vomiting, which is not less frequent, hic- cough supervenes. Hiccough was formerly considered to be a sign of the presence of gangrene, but it is now known not to be so. Patients have had hiccough for many hours, and have recovered after the ope- ration for strangulated hernia. After the appearance of hiccough, you may prevent gangrene by bleeding, and using other means for reducing the patient. The hiccough will sometimes remain for several days after the operation, and, in this case, bleeding will relieve the patient more than any thing else. M'hen gangrene has actually taken place, the patient will tell you that he has got rid of all his pain, and that he feels a great deal better ; but if you put your hand on his abdomen you will find it still tense and tender ; his pulse will be intermitting, small, and irregular, and the swelling will feel tense and somewhat em- physematous. In this state it sometimes happens that the hernia, by a little pressure may be returned into the abdomen, in consequence of the great relaxation of the surrounding parts from the effects of gangrene. Death, however, is close at hand. I saw a man in this state at the other hospital, who declared that he was a great deal better, and begged to have a little small beer. 1 desired the sister to give him some, and while he was in the act of elevating himself in bed to drink it he fell back and expired. Be upon your guard, therefore, against encouraging the friends of a patient under such circumstances. Many a pro- fessional man has injured his reputation by holding out hopes of recovery from these delusive appearances, when in fact death is on the very point of closing the sufferings of the patient.