ON POISONS. 491. tluce the least eftect upon it. I sat hour after hour by the side of this young lady, watching her progress to dis.solution, without being in the least able to prevent it. If, however, I had been acquainted with the instrument which has been since invented, I should have used it with the probalility of success. This in- strument enables us not merely to remove the poison from the stomach, but also to throw in w'ater in considerable quantities, and to introduce stimulating remedies after the opium is removed, for the purpose of restoring the functions of the nervous system ; and this in cases where emetics cannot be even swallowed. I certainly do expect the happiest results in such cases from the invention of this instrument. The man who first suggested such an idea deserves well of his country, and they who oppose it un- til the instrument has been fairly tried and found useless, must be destitute of understanding. Persons who object to a propo- sition merely because it is new, or who endeavour to detract from the merit of the man who first gives efficacy to a new idea, by demonstrating its usefulness and applicability, are foolish, unmanly, envious and ilbberal objectors ; they are unworthy of the designation either of professional men or of gentlemen. 1 will take this opportunity of mentioning to you, that the new medicine—iodine, which is now much employed in enlarge- ments of the glands, in the form of hydriodate of potash, is a very active poison, and you should be very much on your guard in employing it. I have witnessed lately an instance of an over- dose of this substance producing the most violent convulsive symptoms. The quantity of iodine taken was less than that which is often given, but it was an over-dose to this patient. There were forty drops of the tincture in a mixture of six ounces, and he wa.s desired to take three table-spoonfuls three times a-day; he had only taken three-fourths of the mixture, when he was seized with the roost violent convulsions ; his hands, legs, and feet, were kept in constant involuntary motion ; and he declared, that during the whole night he resembled a person in the act of fight- ing anrl wrestling. Dr. Marcet mentioned to me the case of a lady, on the continent, who destroyed herself by taking this me- dicine ; she thought she could manage it herself; took it for several days, and increased the doses. She was seized with vio- lent vomiting, purging, excessive pain in the stomach, and con- vulsive symptoms, and in this state she died. It is a dangerous remedy when used internally, and I do not think its merits as an