608 ON VJRUI.RNT OONIURncEA. or divided stream, and, lastly, discharges his water by drops only : in this last state, for the purpose of facilitating the escape of the urine, and preventing its being ret^iined by the lacunas oi the urethra, he draws out the penis with considerable force ; and thus, to express it in the clearest way, milks himself. Well, the next circumstance you observe is the discharge of a considerable quantity of mucus along with the urine ; this is owing to the inflammation having extended to the mucous mem- brane of the bladder: the urine, when discharged, is as trans- parent as usual; but when it has cooled, the mucus descends to the bottom, where it appears ropy, and adheres to the vessel. As the inflammation of the membrane increases, the urine becomes yellow ; but, if heated, the yellowness is not seen ; and, when allowed to stand, as I before stated, the mucus will sink to the bottom. These facts will explain to you whether the urine con- tains mucus or pus. When the disease is of a very aggravateil nature, the urine will become quite whilp ; but, in all the stages of the complaint, the colour of the water will be according to the Hegree of inflammatory excitement; and, when very severe, it will be charged with a considerable quantity of pus. When the urine is bloody, it is a proof that the ulcerative process has commenced ; and if there be no blood, it is a proof that there are no ulcers. In that state of stricture, when the urine is loaded with pus, the patient has frequent and severe rigors, or, even below that s'ate of inflammation, the person, will have frequent shivering fits; and upon going into his room, you would suppose that he had an intermittent, and would order him bark. In these cases, however, this medicine has no effect, and you will find opium the remedy. I mention this that you may be upon your guard in those cases, as the)’ are manifest rigors succeeded by severe heat, although they do not come on with that regularity that they do in intermittents, nor at the same time of the day. In addition to these symptoms, piles will be sometimes produced, and occasion- ally direct inguinal hernia : this last complaint is the consequence of the extreme force that is employed to evacuate the urine. Upon the dissection of those who die of stricture, (and I think persons not unfrequently die of this complaint, though not so many now as formerly), the following circumstances are ob- served :—The seat of the stricture anterior to the bulb, just where it joins the corpus spongiosum—this part is naturally con-