ON POISONS. 413 h cases wheie the lives of individuals may, perhaps be involved ID. the decision. He should content himself with carefully col- lecting the contents of the stomach, and sending them to be ana- lysed by a practical chemist. The dose of arsenic, when it is given as a medicine, is five drops of the arseniate of potash three umes a day at the commencement. This dose may be increased at the utmost to fifteen drops. Few stomachs can bear it to that extent; and, in general, when I give this medicine with a view for the removal of any periodical disease of the intermittent form, I begin with five drops three times a-day, and very rarely in- crease it beyond twelve drops. The bad effects which this medi- cine produces after a time, often leads us to regret that we should have employed it at all. It occasions pain in the stomach, a dis- ordered state of the bowels, cedematous swellings in the face, and in the hands and feet, from which it is often a long time before the patient recovers. \\ ith respect to the external application of arsenic, you should be very much on your guard in its employ- ment. I remember a patient in the other hospital, who had a fungus in the eye, to which the solution of arsenic was very libe- •ally applied ; he complained very much of pain in the stomach, »nd the result was, that he died of inflammation in that organ. f)n examination of the body after death, the stomach exhibited te peculiar inflammatory appearances produced by the poison of arsenic. It is a curious circumstance, that if arsenic be injected into the blood-vessels, it kills by producing inflammation in the stomach. There are few subjects which have.been less attended to than the disposition that exists in some parts of the body to be acted upon by certain medicines, to the exclusion of other parts. Thus, if ipecacuanha be injected into the veins, it still acts by producing vomiting ; if arsenic be injected, it produces vomiting and inflammation of the stomach ; introduced in this way, it destroys life in three or four hours, and if in large doses, it wil, sometimes prove fatal in twenty minutes. If oxymuriate of raer cury be injected into the veins, it produces the destruction of lilg by inflammation, not only of the stomach, but of the intestines when received into the stomach, it acts both on the stomach anii intestine ; and when injected into the veins, it acts equally on both. Arsenic produces inflammation of the stomach only, and not of the intestinal canal. Taitrate of antimony and ipecacuanha botl) prorJuce vomiting when injected into the veins. It appear^ therefore, that you can only influence certain parts of the boti3