ON SCROFULA. «90 subjects of scrofula. But this disease is arrested by cold and heat, uncombined with a moist state of the atmosphere, although it previously existed ; and persons predisposed to scrofula may prevent it from occurring, by a change to a warm ann dry cli- mate. But people from the East or West Indies, who come over to this country, not unfrequently fall a prey to scrofulous disease. Many children, born in the East and West Indies, are sent to this country to be educated, and therefore we have an opportu- nity of seeing the effect of climate on their constitutions ; and I can assure you, that it frequently requires the greatest possible care to save them from the danger of scrofulous disease of the joints and absorbent glands ; and very often, with all your care and attention, tliey will die of scrofulous disease. Those from the West Indies less frequently die of scrofula {lian persons from the East Indies ; but I haVe seen some from the South Sea Islands, and most of them have died from scrofulous complaints. From this statement, then, gentlemen, you see that children born in warm climates, and subsequently brought to thLs country to be educated, frequently perish. Although we have proof of some climates predisposing to this complaint, and favouring its production more than others, yet the most striking effects are manifested by the changes of the seasons, after scrofula has oc- curred. Thus, for instance, if a child with scrofulous disease be examined in the springs and it has a gland that is inflamed, the complaint will go on during the spring till the summer months, when it will be arrested, and the health of the child improved. In this state it will remain till October and November, and then the child will become worse. By the alteration of scrofulous complaints, from the changes of the seasons, a surgeon often loses credit, though he more frequently gains it. He will lose eredit, if called to the child in winter, because then the state of the child’s health will be in an improved state, compared to what it has been, which state, however, continues only for a short time, as it becomes worse with the return of spring : the surgeon will gain credit, if called to a child in the spring, because, be- ing at that time very unwell, it continues so only till summer, when it rapidly recovers. In summer the symptoms disappear, in autumn they return, and continue till the winter, when they again become suspended. I remember being once called on to subscribe to a charity instituted for the cure of scrofula, and I said I had no objection to subscribe, if its benefits were to be ex-