314 ON EXTRACTION 01- THE CaTARACT. tinct when you resort to that instrument. The loss of a small portion of vitreous humour does not essentially interfere with the success of the operation ; indeed, it has been said, and perhaps justly, that the loss of a small portion is rather beneheial than otherwise. It would be au extremely dangerous experiment, however, to endeavour to force out only a certain quantity. 'I'he loss of a portion of this humour should not prevent you from completing the operation in the best possible way, by re- moving all the loose fragments of the opaque lens, and the dif- ferent portions of opaque membrane or capsule. Another unfor- tunate circumstance which sometimes happens, is the introduc- tion of the cornea knife between the lamellae of the cornea ; the consequence of an accident of this kind will be, that the section of the cornea will be very small and imperfect. There are various other circumstances which may interfere ■with the success of this operation, which I shall not detain you by mentioning. Dexterity in performing it can only be ac- quired by practice. I do not agree with Wenzel, that you must poke out a hatful of eyes before you can hope to perform this operation with success ; but, undoubtedly, considerable practice is necessary to enable you to acquire dexterity in performing it. M^henever any unfortunate circumstance happens, you should be perfectly calm, cool, and deliberate ; close the eye-lid: consi- der what is best to be done ; and having made up your mind on that point, proceed with firmness and decision in the operation. With respect to the after treatment, your object should be, as far as possible to prevent inflammation. A compress of fine linen or cambric, kept wet with cold water, should be applied to the eyes, or rather to the eye opposite that which had been ope- rated upon ; it should be fixed by means of a bandage, carried round from the occiput, crossed in front, and pinned on the sides of the nightcap. The patient should be carried to bed after the operation; placed in the recumbent posture, with his head a little elevated, and the room should be darkened. lie should be allowed nothing but barley-water, tea, or water-gruel, for the first few days ; and if there should be any symptoms of inflam- mation, such as pain, a sensation as if there were some external body in the eye, accompanied by quickness of pulse, a quantity of blood should be immediately taken a>vay from the arm. It will be better not to disturb the bandage, or raise the lid to exa- mine the eye, for at least three days, unless the patient ^hould