OV CALCULI IN THE PROSTATE GLAND. 365 and then withdrawing it, you will generally succeed in extracting the stone. 'J'he reason why you cannot extract it with the for- ceps is, that when you try to bring the forceps forward, you pull She urethra back on the stone, and, consequently, you do not move the stone itself. I once had a pair of forceps constructed similar to those used in midwifery, of which the two blades were separately introduced into the urethra, and afterwards locked ex- ternally. The probe, however, is most easily introduced ; if there should be great resistance, you may enlarge the urethra a little with the knife at the frasnum. A curious case occurred the other day, in which I extracted two calculi from a man’s urethra, I did not know that I had such an operation to perform, and there- fore I had no opportunity of giving you previous information of it. The man was suffering under retention of urine -from stricture ; I did not know that 1 was to meet with calculi, but the way in which I operated was this :—I passed a sound, or staff, into the urethra, down to the stricture, and instead of turning it towards the bladder, I turned the point of the instrument towards the pe- rineum, so that the urethra was quite prominent towards me. I made a cut in the course of the urethra, a little below the instru- ment, and finding something very hard there, which I believed to be stone, I extended the cut and found a stone, I then divi- ded the urethra to a considerable extent, and a stone larger than a three-ounce grape-shot passed through the opening. When I nad removed this a smaller stone made its appearance. This stone was lodged in a cup in the upper part of the larger stone. The appearance of the stones, which were completely locked and fitted to each other, was extremely beautiful. The next step was to put the patient in a situation to have a catheter passed. I pushed the sound onward through the strictured part; and hav- ing cut the part with a knife, I introduced my finger into the wound, and carried it into the bladder. A similar case occurred to me in a former period of my life ; the form of the stone was exactly the same, and the treatment I pursued very much the same as 1 have just described. Op Stones in the Prostate Gland. Stones in the prostate gland differ in composition from those in the bladder; they consist of phosphate of lime. There are two species of calculi in the prostate ; those which pass from the bladder in consequence of ulceration, and those which are found in the cyst formed in the prostate gland itself. There is a pre-