53'i ON wasting oi the testes. Well, it sometimes happens that, notwithstanding all we can do, the abscesses in the testicle will form ; we must then apply poultices and fomentations, for the purpose of bringing them to a speedy issue. After the discharge of the matter, should any sinuses remain, you must inject with a solution of sulphate of copper, in the proportion of two grains to an ounce of water j diluted sulphuric acid is occasionally used, but I give the pre- ference to the former. The reason that there is so much diffi- culty in getting these sinuses to heal, is that the semen is a fluid which is constantly secreting day and night, consequently the utlhesive inflammation is interrupted io its progress from these sinuses Fungi frequently sprout out. The treatment consists in paring them off at their roots, and then bringing the edges of the external wound in contact. These fungi are not of a malignant nature, they re- semble those that occasionally shoot from the brain. Well, a few words more, and then I will conclude. Wasting of the Testes. This sometimes takes place, and is produced by two causes, absorption and ulceration. Here (showing a preparation) is an example of this : when this effect is produced, it is generally in fads from fourteen to seventeen years of age. It is a curious cir- cumstance, that if a boy of fifteen or sixteen gets a gonorrhoea, that it is often succeeded by a wasting of one or both testicles. This effect is not the result of gonorrhoea only; but any cause producing inflammation of the testis in very young persons, will now and then lead to a similar misfortune. I have known it happen in consequence of blows from cricket bats and balls. The only reatment likely to prevent their entire decay, is probably to employ them, to render them active, before the whole of the glandular structure has become destroyed. If, however, the in- flammation of the testicle has been severe, that alone is sufficient to derange the glandular structure in very young persons. I have known both testicles waste from the formation of scrofulous sympathetic bubo.