ON IIEUNIA. 242 within the hernia. An out-patient at the other hospital came to the surgery with strangulated hernia, and a gentleman supposed he had succeeded in returning it, as he had pushed it through the abdominal ring. As the man, however, still complained of pain, he was admitted into the hospital. The sjTnptoms were not relieved ; no stools could be procured, and in three or four days he died. On examination of the body after death, it was found that the hernia had passed through the abdominal ring, but the stricture was still remaining upon it; so that the hernia was strangulated behind the abdominal nng. Operation for Strangulated Hernia. Before I describe to you the operation for strangulated hernia let me make one or two observations : first, perform the operation before • there is any peritoneal tenderness; there will be always tension of the abdomen from inflation of the intestines, as I men- tioned to you batere; but tei^rness from peritoneal inflam- mation, if present when the operation is performed, renders the issue doubtful j because, though the division of the stricture libe- rates the parts which are pressed, yet it does not retard peritoneal inflammation; therefore make it a rule to operate before any symptom of it appears. Secondly, You may wait a longer time in old persons before you perform the operation, than in the young or middle-aged. In a boy, for instance, you should wait but a very short time after you have used the other means ; in an older person you may stop longer, because the parts are gene- rally more relaxed. Having used the means which I recom- mended to be adopted, without success, you will then proceed to the operation. The patient should be placed on a table from two to three feet high, with the legs hanging over the end ; the hair having been fireviously removed from the pubes, so as to prevent any from getting into the wound, you should commence the incision from the upper part of the tumour, in whatever situa- tion it may be, and carry it along its middle to the lower part j there will be no necessity to continue the incision quite to the lower part, if the hernia be large, as then it often happens that there are vessels crossing in that part. By the first incision you lay bare Ihe fascia of the cord, and in doing this you will divide a small artery, the external pudendal, which crosses directly op- posite to the abdominal ring ; some will then say to the assistant, “ Press on the artery till the operation is over; but the moment the finger is removed, a jet of blood issues forth, and obscures the