35 LOCAL TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. on the subject—the pulse sometimes did not rise so high as 120, not being more than 110, and was hard and wiry. The immer- sion in so great a degree of cold caused great pain, and conse- quently was a source ot irritation. This experiment led me into an examination of the effects of the application of the cold balh ; I found that when a person in health took a cold bath, who was unaccustomed to do so, that it produced irritation, but on the contrary, when a person in a state of irritation, or febrile heat, went into a cold bath, it Iranquillized the nervous action, and excited a beneficial influence. ' At one time, I had injured my health by being too much in the dissecting room, and was in the habit of discharging from my sto- mach a good deal of blood ; a considerable degree of sympathetic fever was the consequence ; in this condition 1 went into the country, for the benefit of a pure atmosphere, and there had fre- quent opportunities of noticing the influence of cold upon an irri- table pulse, in my own person. Of an evening, when in the house my pulse would be at 120, but upon going out in the cold, it sunk in a very short time to 100, and by a long continuance in the cold, it became still less frequent. Thus, where there is great irritability of the nervous system, and where the heart is sending its blood through the different channels with accelerated motion, cold will prove invigorating, by destroying the first of these affec- tions, and reducing the latter to the natural standard. In a word, therefore, cold relieves inflammation when locally applied—by abstracting heat—by lessening the diameter of the blood-vessels, and by diminishing the action of the part, througli lessening its nervous irritability. The next mode of relieving inflammation is by the application of heat and moisture; this looks like contradiction but it is not 80. It would be a contradiction to apply heat alone, and its ap- plication would certainly do harm ; but the reverse is the result, when united with moisture ; for the two produce relaxation, open the pores, give rise to perspiration, thereby removing congestion, and occasioning all the beneficial effects that would arise from the application of leeches. The sedative effects of heat and mois- ture are well exemplified by what happens when a person takes a warm bath ; a man, for instance, with a pulse at 75, goes into water heated to 100 degrees ; his pulse soon rises to 100 ; pre- sently he perspires freely, his pulse becomes less frequent yet »oft j great relaxation follows, and if le were not removed o 2