ON FRACTUnES OF THE SKULL. 138 renes. The mode in which these fractures are produced, is by falling from a great height on the summit of the head : when all the weight of the body rests on the foramen magnum, and cunei- form process of the os occipitis, great injury is in this way done • as in very many cases a transverse fracture through the foramen magnum, cuneiform process, and part of the temporal bone is tue consequence ; a discharge of blood into each meatus auditorius takes place, and where there is no other mischief, deafness often remains for life. A curious fracture within the orbit sometimes occurs, as in the case from which this specimen (pointing to one on the table) was taken, when destruction of life was the conse- quence of the injury received. I will give you the history of the case : a child was playing with a scissors, when the point of it entered the upper part of the orbit, between the ball of the eye and the superior eye-lid ; the scissors was with difficulty extracted ; the child’s eye did not become inflamed ; after the accident the child walked from Walworth to Mr. W., of Hatton Garden, who attended it; on the lOth day from the time of the mischief, symp- toms of compression of the brain came on, rigors, inflammation of the brain supervened, and the child died; on examining the body after death, it was found that the scissors had penetrated through the orbitar process of the os frontis, and lacerated the dura mater; a considerable quantity of extravasated blood was found, and the anterior lobe of the cerebrum was punctured by the point of the scissors, from which it had received the injury. It now and then happens that a blow received upon the sum- mit of the head will produce a circular fracture of the entire cranium, commencing at the top of the head, passing down on each side through the temporal bone, and meeting at the basis. —IMr. Chandler, late surgeon of the hospital, had a case of this description; there did not appear to be any extravasation or concussion; great iiritation and violent inflammation suc- ceeded, which destroyed the patient; and after death, it was discovered that there existed a complete circular fracture of the skull, and that tlie anterior portion could be freely separa- ted from the posterior. I believe these cases always terminate fatally. There is a curious fractqje of the skull which occasionally takes place over the frontal sinuses. When the fracture is simple, if the nose be blown, the air escapes through the opening in the