ON RACHITIS. 614 the powers of the circulation, in consequence of which the bones lose their phosphate of lime, and become spongy at the extremi- ties, and the joints, therefore, are exceedingly enlarged. The ossific matter binds do^vm the cartilages, so as to prevent theit expansion, hence arises a diminution of the ossific deposit, which leads to the alteration in the form of the bones. With respect to the treatment of these cases, you will observe the same general principles which I laid down in the first lecture on scrofula, and you will also resort to mechanical means. For the enlargement of the head it will be right to use some sort of pressure; a cap or a roller round the head may be worn, for the purpose of pre- venting the growth of the head, by the pressure of the arteries of the brain. The next point is to prevent the cun'ature of the spine, and, for that purpose, it has been the practice to keep children in the recumbent posture for a great length of time. This IS a plan which I by no means advise; exercise is absolutely necessary to the health of children, and I am glad to find that a respectable gentleman at the west end of the town, and a gentle- man at Bath, have adopted more rational principles in the treat- ment of this disease. The cause of this disease is debility, and de- ficiency in the circulation : how is it possible then to give vigour to the circulation, if the child is kept in a confined atmosphere, and prevented from taking exercise, and participating in those amusements which are so essential to health ? Exercise should be freely allowed, taking care only that it be not protracted so as to occasion fatigue. How, it may be asked, can you allow exer- cise, and at the same time bring the spine into a straight posi- tion ? By giving artificial support to the spine. This may be effected by two springs of steel added to stays, one on each side of the spine, which may be worn by the patient in any position. Callow’s back is a good mechanical contrivance; it fits to the back of the patient, and is passed round the pelvis without pressing on the sides—the pressure is on the crista of the ilium, and not on the sides. In the use of mechanical means, the great object should be, not to force the child into a constrained position, but merely to prevent inclination on one side or the other. I have known children laid down for a length of time, to the great injury of their general health, without producing any effect on the distortion. A lady, of great talent and great reso- lution, lay for twelve months in the recumbent posture, and rose with her spine in the same state, but with an additional disease in the bladder. The urine was loaded with an immense quantity