628 DISLOCATIONS OF THE CLAVICLE. angles with the upper arm. If- the limb has been a long tim« dislocated, and if the muscles are so firmly contracted that th« force to be applied in the way I have just recommended does not succeed, the reduction must be attempted by means of the pullies; more on account of employing the force gradually and equally than of their increase in power. The patient should sit between two staples to be fixed in the wall, the bandages are to be applied in the way before described, and the surgeon should draw the pulley himself, and the degree of extension be gradually increased until the patient complains of pain, then stop a little and extend again. (Here 1 may mention to you the great advantage to be gained in engaging the patient’s attention, and directing it to some other object during the attempt at reduction.) Then extend the arm again, and continue it uutil the patient again complains; and thus, at intervals of three or four minutes, you may continue the extension for a quarter of an hour. If this plan should not succeed, you must use the constitutional measures before pointed out, and try the extension again. But in the hospital 1 generally order, when I expect much resistance, the warm bath and nauso* aling doses of tartaiized antimony to nrecede the application of the pulleys. If the patient should be an elderly lady, or a relaxed, emaciated person, you may generally succeed in reducing the dislocation in this way :-^Put the person in a low chair; carry the knee into the axilla, by separating the arm sufficiently from the side, and let your foot rest on the foot of the chair; take hold of the arm firmly, just above the condyles, with one hand, and place the other on the shoulder; draw the arm over the knee, raise the knee a little at the same time, and depress the shoulder with the other hand, when the bone will generally slip into its socket. But the mode I usually adopt, in all recent cases, is the fol- lowing :—Lay the patient on his back, either on a bed or sofa, and bring him near to the edge of it; let a towel be passed over the scapula, in the manner before mentioned, and given to a person to hold fast; then tie a handkerchief above the elbow, having previously passed a wetted roller round the arm, carry the patient’s arm from his side, and sit yourself on the edge of the bed; then place your heel in the axilla, and extend the arm; draw steadily for three or four minutes, and the bone is replaced. If more force should be necessary than you can make with the handkerchief, you can pass a towel round the arm in its stead, and let two or three persons pull at it, the heel being still kept