ON VIRCLENT GONOURHCEA. 506 ing entirely disappeared, he called on me to know whether he might take wine the next day, when he was to give his dinner- party. I told him I saw no objection to it, and the effect of the wine he drank on that day, added to the cubebs, completed his cure, for the discharge did not return afterwards. Cubebs ap- pears to produce a specific inflammation of its own on the ure- thra, which has the effect of superseding the gonorrhoeal inflam- mation. They who have tried cubebs, and do not acknowledge its value, as a remedy for gonorrhoea, cannot have made any ac- curate observations on the subject. It is a remedy of a most admirable and useful kind, and may be given with advantage even in the inflammatory stages of gonorrhoea, provided the in- flammation does not run excessively high. It is a most useful remedy also for the cure of gleet, as it is called, where gonor- rhoea has continued for a great length of time. In the very early stages of gonorrhoea, when the inflammation is just beginning, it often succeeds in removing the disease in a very short space of time. I have one more observation to make with respect to this remedy, namely, that the greatest advantage may be derived from combining its use with that of the balsain of copaiba. An ounce of the balsam of copaiba, an ounce of the mucilage of acacia, and two drachms of cubebs, in four ounces of the mistura cam- phorata, make an admirable mixture when the balsam of copaiba alone is beginning to lose its effect. Such, gentlemen, it appears to me, is the mode of treating gonorrhoea, which will best con- tribute to the maintenance of your own professional character, and to the welfare of your patients. LECTURE LVI. In this evening’s lecture, gentlemen, I shall call your attention to some of t!»e consequences of gonorrhcca, and first of STnlCTURES OF THE UrETURA. These are of three kinds—the ■permanent, spasmodic, and in- fammatarp. The permanent stricture is the result of a thickening of the urethra from chronic inflammation; the spasmodic arises either from a contraction of the muscles surrounding the urethra, or from the urethra itself; the injiammatory, in consequence of in- flammation of the acute kind, which generally succeeds the acute gonorrhcca. 'I’his inflammation occasions an extravasation of ad-