ADHESIVE INELAM.MATION—APPEARA>'CES, 45 you, that a i\Ir. Blight was shot by a man called Patch, in the neighbourhood of Deptford ; the ball traversed the abdomen. I was called to this case, and Mr. Blight died in nineteen hours after he had received the injury. Here I had an opportunity of seeing what 1 have just mentioned ; the intestines were glued to each other, and to the peritoneum ; the peritoneal surface had quantities of adhesive matter on it, and was firmly united to the surrounding intestines. On the surfaces of wounds the process of adhesion takes place rapidly; for if a piece of lint be ap- plied to a newly-made wound, in twelve hours it will be glued to its surface; in a dog the adhesive process commences in six hours. Adhesive matter, when effused on a thin membrane, coagu- lates into a net-work, assuming the character of cellular mem- brane. When adhesive matter has been formed, blood-vessels soon enter it, and within a short time it becomes organized ; the vasa vasorum are elongated by the force of the.circulation; they enter tlie newly-formed substance, and send throughout it minute rami- fications. On cutting into adhesive matter within twenty-four hours after it has been deposited, small bloody spots may be seen, which mark the future situation of the vessels which nourish it; but it is not till ten days after it has been formed that adhe- sive matter becomes completely organized; for you will find that a fine injection would not enter adhesive .matter sooner than the tenth or eleventh day after its formation. When vessels elongate, they have not the character of arteries; in general they take a serpentine or tortuous course. Some thought at one time, and I believe Mr. Hunter was one of this opinion, that the vessels originated in the newly-formed substance ; but they are formed by the elongation of the vasa vasorum of the surrounding arteries, which become dilated, lengthened, and serpentine : and the degree of vascularity will be in proportion to that of the part subjected to the adhesive in- flammation. In tendons, for instance, it will be much less than in muscles. TTiis process is of the greatest possible consequence in surgeiy. It ought, therefore, to command much of your attention; and it will be unfortunate for you if you do not understand it. Without this process no operation could be attended with success; its absence, even after bleeding, would destroy life. Bear this prin-