. ON ANEURISM. 184 complaints is, that the sac bursts, and the patient is destroyed hv the sudden gush of blood; but I tell you, gentlemen, it is no such thing ; it is not from the sudden bursting of the aneurismal bag tliat the person dies, but by repeated bleedings from the part. At first the bleeding is small, but as the eschar increases, and the separation of the part takes place, it becomes more ; the wound is produced by means of the sloughing process, like a slough in any other part, and an opening is formed which leads into the aneu- rismal bag. At the commencement the wound is small, and blood issues from the part: lint is applied to the wound, and the hemorrhage is stopped ; but as the eschar proceeds, and the size of the wound increases, the hemorrhage returns ; and thus, by re- peated hemorrhage, destruction of life is produced, and not by any sudden discharge of blood from the sac ; it is not in aneurism of the extremities only that death thus takes place, but in aneurisms that occur internally ; in the chest for instance, the same circum- stances happen as I have just mentioned. Aneurisms, if not ope- rated on, are not always destructive of life. I have seen gangpene of the foot and leg, as far as the knee, from aneurism take place, without destroying life. I saw a case where the foot and lower part of the leg became gangrenous in a man labouring under po- pliteal aneurism; they sloughed off j amputation was performed just above the ankle, and the patient recovered. Destruction of life, then, takes place in aneurism from repeated hemorrhage and gangrene. Gangrene of a small part of the limb in aneurism may occur, and still be remedied by means of surgpeal aid. The history of internal aneurism is different from that of the external. I will describe it to you in a few words, though the sub- ject is by far too ample to be properly treated of at present. I mentioned to you just now, in the definition I gave you of aneu- rism, that there was an exception to it, and that was the heart itself, when the subject of aneurism. Here b an aneurism (pointing to one on the table) of the heart; this and two others are all that 1 have ever seen ; for what are often called aneurisms of the heart are not really so—they are a simple dilatation of the ventricles. An aneurism of the heart consbts of a bag formed out of the parietes of that organ, and in this bag an open- ing is formed, as in the aneurisms which take place in arteries. In this specimen there is a bag formed of the parietes of the left ventricle, considerably larger than an orange, together with an opening which communicates with it. The other instances