ON SCnOFULA. 691 tended throughout the year; because, if its operations were to be extended all the year round, the eyes of the subscribers would be opened to the inefficacy of any charity of the kind. The way also to try the value of nostrums, blazoned forth as specifics for the cure of scrofula, is to watch their effects during the whole year, for else you may be deceived ; they may ocaasionally afford benefit (which I do not mean to deny), but as to any specifics for the cure of the complaint, I need not tell you that such do not exist. Well, such are the effects of climate and the changes of the seasons, on persons born with a debility of constitution, giving rise to inflammation of the scrofulous kind. The next point to be considered is—whether Scrofula is here- ditary ?—That Scrofula is an hereditary disease, appears as clear to me as can be, and those who deny it, deny the evidence of their senses. When speaking of hereditary disease, I do not mean to say that children are born with an enlargement of an absorb- ent gland, or a disease of the joints j but what I state is, that a child will be born with an hereditary disposition to the complaint. Does a child resemble its father or mother 1 and do we not see parents predisposed to scrofulous disease, having chi’dren of constitutions, complexions, &c., as I have described to you, manifesting the signs of scrofulous aft'ections at some period of their life 1 and this is the consequence of a particular state of constitution, transmitted to them by their parents. Let two scro- fulous persons marry, and see the consequence ; a great propor- tion of the children will be born with a scrofulous disposition ; with that debility of constitution which gives rise to the produc- tion of the disease. I know that children may, with great care, be preserved from attacks of the disease. A man of a gouty habit shall have many children, and 1 would not say that all should be affected with gout ; but will any one say that the chil- dren of such a parent are not more likely to be attacked with this complaint than the children of persons who never had the com- plaint ; You may prevent scrofula by care, but that some child- ren are originally predisposed to the disease there cannot be the least doubt; and in such cases the education and the habits of the youth should be so directed as to ward off a complaint the effects of v/hich are so f'-f-quently fatal. A gentleman, whom I knew, and who was often the subject of gout, had three sons; •he firat child was attacked in early life with the gout; ttio bc-