213 ON HERNIA this sometimes never closes, consequently, an opening remains through which the umbilical hernia protrudes. By ventral hernia, I wish you to understand a protrusion of the intestines through the different lines- of the abdomen, the linea alha (excepting at the umbilicus), linas semilunare^ and transverssB, which protrusion is called ventral, in contradistinc- tion to the umbilical; but besides these four kinds of hernia, several others occasionally occur. Sometimes there is a protrusion through the diaphragm,and this is called phrenic or diaphragmatic hernia ; this hernia occurs in some cases between the msophagus and aorta, now and then between the aorta and vena cava ; but these cannot be relieved by any surgical treatment, as they are not situated within view and are not known to have existed till they are ascertained upon dissection. You will also find a hernia at times between the Ttagina and rectum in females, called perineal hernia, and in stales between the rectum and bladder, having the same name. There is also a hernia situated in the vagina, called vaginal hernia ; you ascertain the nature of this by putting the finger into the vaginaj when you feel a tumour, you desire the patient to lie down, and it-is easily reduced ; but-it immediately returns when she resumes the erect position. Hernia sometimes takes place in the foramen ovale, a fine instance of which you have tad an opportunity of seeing this season at the other hospital, where there were ulcerated sinuses, and the faeces discharged through them ; so that you may see a hernia now and then in the ischiatic notch. These different species of hernia are very rare when compared to inguinal hernia, therefore we shall rest little on them. Now, gentlemen, we shall show you the four different species of abdominal hernia, as they require different inodes of operation, and therefore require to be correctly known. Inguinal Hernia. We shall mention, first, that kind of inguinal hernia which takes the course of the spermatic cord ; it begins with the cord just as it passes out of the abdomen, and follows the direction of the inguinal canal; its course is oblique, and on this account is called oblique inguinal hernia ; it is readily distinguished from the next kind by ks oblique course, which I shall mention to you. The second kind is the direct inguinal hernia; in this case, the hernia does not fallow the course of the inguinal canal, but comes out directly through llie external abdominal ring, and