ON CALCULI IN THE BLADDER. 334 diea. When we afterwards examined the body, the instant the surgeon cut into the abdomen, there issued through the opening a strong urinous smell; on prosecuting the examination, we found a stone lodged in one of the ureters ; this obstructed calculus had given rise to an abscess, which had burst into the cavity of the abdomen, whence arose the almost sudden dissolution. But it every now and then happens, that calculi of the ure- ters will escape without proving destructive to life. Mr. Stone, a surgeon in Sussex, had a carter in his neighbourhood, to whom such a result happened—the man for a long while felt a severe pain in the direction of the ureter—at length an abscess formed upon the spine of the ilium, and when it broke there was dis- charged through the opening this calculus (showing it to the class). From its figure it is evident that it was formed in the ureter ; the man ultimately did well. Now, gentlemen, of the Treatment of Calculi in the Ureter. During those violent paroxysms of suffering which I have de- tailed to you, the patient should be bled to syncope—you should give liim opium: potass may also be administered with advan- tage, for I do believe that it lessens the irritability of the urinary organs, and in this manner will afford considerable relief the person should also be put into a warm bath, and when in that situation, the surgeon should sit by his side, and rub the ab- domen in the course of the ureter ; for the urine having collected above the stone, and its vis a tergo being insufficient to push the calculus onward, friction, properly directed, will prove of great service by its mechanical influence on the accumulated fluid, and it will be found agreeable to the patient rather than otherwise. Well, then, the plan to pursue is, to bleed, with a view of pre- venting inflammation; to give opium and potass, for the purpose of diminishing pain and irritability, and mechanically to assist the passage of the stone by rubbing the surface of the abdomen in the course of the ureter. Calculi in the Bladder. The next situation in which calculi are formed is in the blad- der ; and, as much can be done in this complaint by surgica' treatment, we shall dwell more at length on the circumstances attending it, and describe to you the operation required for re- moving a stone from the bladder. Directly a stone enters the