ON SYPHILIS AFFECTING THE NOSE. 567 this operation; if any of you recollect his name, I shall be obliged if you will mention it (here several students stated that it was Mr. Alcock). Mr. Alcock, then, gentlemen, has also performed this operation. Sir Astley then said, that he thought the union of a division of the soft palate had been attempted by some one else, when one of the pupils replied, that “ it had been by Mr. Brodie.” I was not aware that Mr. Brodie had performed this operation—are you sure of it, sir? This being answered in the atfirmativei the learned professor said that the operation similar to M. Bou.\’s had been performed by Mr. Alcock, and (I must, however, mention my friend Mr. Brodie’s name on authority, pointing to the student who first mentioned it) by Mr. Brodie. IViih respect to affections of the larynx, you must act im- mediately on the system by mercury ; I use the oxymurias hydrargyri, because it is the quickest in its operation. Mer- curial fumigations locally, and the oxymurias hydrargyri in- ternally ; these are what I now employ. Some give the blue pill and opium, but I prefer the oxymuriate, on account of its speedy effect. LECTURE LXIV. The next subject to which I shall direct your attention, is he influence of Syphilis affecting the Nose. The mucous membrance of the nose is liable to be affected by this disease, as well as the mucous membrane of the throat. Ulceration in this part very speedily affects the bones, which afterwards exfoliate, and the patient will be in danger of losing a considerable portion of his nose. The following are the symptoms which indicate the existence of this disease. The ,first circumstance of which the patient complains, is an in- crustation forming on the nose. On this incrustation being removed by the hand, a quantity of blood mixed with puui- lent matter is discharged. In two or three days, similar in- crustations are formed, and under these an ulceration takes place, which frequently lays bare the bone, and occasions tJjo process of exfoliation. The bones very often separate by ex- foliation, long after the syphil tic action has ceased. The number of bones which separate in this way, is often very considerable: there is a preparation on the table in which you will have an opportunity of observing a mimber of bones,