ON HERNIA. 252 parts with some preparation. “ Why upon my word,” said I, " 1 feel no inclination to go, for I know you might just as well ask me to go and see you jump to the moon Well, sir,” said he, “ then you will not see him ?”—Ko,” said 1, “ 1 wil' not.” Four or five months after, this man, having quarrelled with the junto with which he was united, came to me, and said, “ tsir, it was entirely an imposition. What do you suppose we rubbed our patients with, in order to impose upon the public 1” —“ I cannot tell,” said I, “ Sir,” replied he, “ it was nothing but hedge-hog’s fat. It cost us some trouble to catch our liedge- hog’s; but it was the fat of that animal with which we pre- tended to prevent the descent of hernia.”—You may suppose, gentlemen, that I felt no regret at having refused to see this man’s patient. Opeuation por Large Hernia. I shall now proceed to describe to you the operation for her- nia when of considerable size, which requires a very different mode of treatment from hernia of a small size. I know no situa- tion in which a man is placed under greater difficulty than that in which a surgeon has to operate on a hernia of very consider- able size, and finds a great quantity of intestine in the lap of the patient, and the parts so diminished from the length of time the hernia has existed, that there is no room left for the return of the intestine which has descended. He tries to push back the intes- tine , it eludes his efforts, and after repeated attempts, when he has at length succeeded in returning a considerable portion of it into the abdomen, tlie whole rushes down again into the scrotum. So much handling of the intestine necessarily leads to such a de- gree of inflammation as to occasion the death of the patient. In this manner, a large hernia, when operated upon in the common way, generally proves destructive to life. Here is an example (ex- hibiting a preparation to the class) which shows you the lesull of sucli cases. This preparation was taken from a patient in the othei hospital, who had a hernia of a very considerable size, which was operated upon in the common way, by making an inci.sion into the hernial sac. The surgeon who performed the operation, find- ing the intestine returning upon him in the manner I have de- scribed, another surgeon, who was present, said, “ Let me try.” lie began trying apparently very gently and carefully, but the intestine eluded his attempts, and upon his using a little more force, it burst and tlie fajces escaped over his hands. This man