304 SOFT OR CASEOUS CATARACT. appearance, the colour of amber. The next particular you observe is the interspace between the iris and front part of the lens, on account of the lens becoming thinner. The motions of the iris are free, there being no adhesions. There is generally some degree of vision, and the patient can often discern large and bright objects, and even differences of colour, and some- times the shadow of minute objects. When the light is faint, the patient can see more distinctly than when it is strong. This kind of cataract generally occurs at an advanced period of life. By these symptoms, then, you will distinguish this kind of cata- ract :—by its colour and size: the interspace between the front part of the lens and the iris: the vision being more or less dis- tinct ; and lastly, by its occurring at an advanced period of life. Fluid CATAnAcr. This kind of cataract is always more or less fluid, and is called milky, from its white colour. The fluid cataract is not of equal density throughout. If you examine the eye of a pa- tient with attention, you will see that it has a flocculent appear- ance, from specks or streaks consisting of solid particles of the lens, and these will move up and down in the various positions and motions of the head, and be removed out of sight; but on the head becomihg steady, they again appear. This arises from their gravity; on motion, they sink to the bottom, and of course disappear. There will not be any difficulty in recogni- sing this form of cataract. Besides these symptoms, the lew becomes enlarged and globular; and the increase of size is such, that the lens reaches to the iris, so that there is no posterior chamber at all. If you look at the eye in profile, you will see that the iris is protruded forwards; from this pressure the mo- tions of the iris are sluggish, and in some cases prevented alto- gether. The size and shape of the pupil is altered. The rays of light do not pass into the eye, and the patient can scarcely tell the difference between light and darkness. Soft on Caseous Cataract. This kind of cataract is of the consistence of firm jelly or cheese. It is uniformly opaque, and there is a milky whiteness, as in the fluid cataract; but the spots and streaks sometimes observable in this form never shift their position, as in the other; the lens also becomes increased in size. The posterior chamber is obliterated. There is no interspace between the fore part of the lens and iris. The motions of the iris are performed with