ON CALCULI IN THE BLADDER. 33r m the bladder. I cut the child, and took from it this calculus with a nucleus formed ofa needle. The needle must have pene» (rated the perineum, or the nates, and by this means reached the bladder. Here, gentlemen, is a slate-pencil, forming a nucleus. Iwill give you the history of the case. A man came to me whilst I was living in the city, and said that he had a slate-pencil in his bladder; considering him to be mad, or wishing to impose, or that it was for the purpose of a quiz, I said very well, and pre. scribed something for him, and sent him away. About a fort- night afterwards this man came again to my house, and said that he had a slate-pencil in the bladder, and if I thought it a trick I could examine him ; this I did ; I passed a sound, and found a stone. I then said, how came the pencil there I “ Why, Sir,” he replied, “ I have had a stricture for some time, and have used bougies a good deal; but one day, not being able to pass one, I thought that I would try something that would be strong enough, and therefore introduced a piece of slate-pencil, which broke in the passage and part of it got into the bladder.” Ttold him that he must submit to an operation in order to have it re- moved ; and being a pauper, I advised him to go to a hospital, where proper care and attention would be taken of him. He came to Guy’s, where I operated oh him, and took the pencil from the bladder. The stone which had formed round it is the triple.pho3phate ; this kind of stone usually forms where there has existed much irritation in the bladder. Here is a piece of metallic bougie, or catheter, round which a stone formed. I will mention here, as I may not have an opportunity again, that pewter catheters should not be allowed to remain in the urethra more than a week, as the urine acts on the materials of which they are composed, makes them brittle, arid if left in the urethra beyond the time I have mentioned, are very apt to break, and then enter the bladder. Stones form round them, as in the case from which this specimen was taken. I have known several examples of this. Here is a curious specimen of a calculus formed round a piece of tobacco-pipe, which got into the bladder in rather a curious manner. It was sent to me by Mr. Godwin, surgeon to the Derbyshire Infirmary; the section has fortunately been made through the centre ; one-half Mr. G„ kept for himself, and the other part he was kind enough to send me. Vou sec that an extraneous body in the bladder forms a nu-