326 ON fistula lacmrymalis answers ; the divided cicatrix recoutracts, and the disease returns The plan usually adopted consists in removing a triangular por- tion of the lid. just in the same way as the operation for cancer of the lip is performed ; by cutting through a piece of lid whicn is raised by a pair of forceps, so that the bass shall be towards the edge of the lid, and the apex below, at the union of the two sides. A suture is applied through the incision, the edges of the wound are brought together; these united, tend to keep the lid in the natural position j and, in fact, the operation, in this way js often successful. Now, gentlemen, I have gone through the various affections of the tunics of the eye, with tho.se of the globe of the eye, and the lids, with the exception of a description of the small tumours, which are often to be met with on them, such as encysted tu- mours, and others. But as these require no particular plan of treatment different from those in oter parts of tiie body, I shall not detain you about them. In their removal, you must bear one thing in mind, viz. the importance of the organ, in the neigh- bourhood of which they are situated, so that in removing them, you do not injure so delicate a part. The last disease to which I shall call your attention is Fistula Lachrtmalis. By this term is undeistood all obstructions of the lachrymal passage preventing the natural flow of the tears and mucus from the eyes to the nose. The most common cause of this com- plaint is a closure of one of the puncta, and then there is epiphora; or a watering of the eye, together with suffusion of the tears, and the surgeon consequently discovers that one of the puncta is closed. This must be punctured by a small sharp pin, made of gold or silver, which is to be pushed through it to the lachrymal sac ; the obstruction is removed, and the epiphora relieved. When the epiphora continues, the eye becomes irritable, a drooping of the lids comes on, and an altered state of ihe lachrymal sac is produced. The most important source of this complaint is ob- * struction of the ductus ad nasum. The original seat then, is in the duct leading from the lachrymal sac to the nose, and the tears, instead of finding their way to the nose, flow down the cheek ; this symptom may, however, arise from a polypus in the nose, and then it will be relieved by the removal of the pol^’pus. One of the symptoms ol malignant fungus of the nose is suffusion