25 TUE.\TMENT OF INFLAMMATION. leading to the scene of irritation ; thus, in persons who have died, having inflammation in a foot, the femoral artery on the affected side has been found larger than the opposite. I before explained the manner in which nature throws a quantity of blood to a part for the purpose of repairing an injury, or for the removal of irri- tation ; I will give another illustration of this, which, if you have not seen, most probably all of you have felt. It is this : when any offending matter gets under the eyelids it produces irritation ; —nature immediately sends a quantity of blood to the lachrymal gland—this blood occasions a secretion of tears, and these are di- rected in streams over the eye, for the purpose of washing off the offending substance. [Sir Astley then stated, that he would show a beautiful speci- men of fungus haematodes. The tumour was of very large size, and, when cut open, exhibited the usual characteristics of this ma- lignant disease ; viz., cysts filled by a transparent fluid, extra- vasated blood in clots, some of its parts were whitish, while others were very dark, and the whole was of a spongy, elastic texture.] LECTURE IV. Treatment op Inflammation. Tms Ls either constitutional, local or both combined. When any important organ is injured, or its functions disturbed in con- sequence of the influence of the injury on the constitution, the treatment must be invariably constitutional, let the local be what- ever it may; for no vital organ can be disturbed in its functions with- out producing general derangement, which will be, more or less, in proportion to the importance of the part wounded, and the ex- tent of the wound. Inflammation, however, in many persons, requires constitutional treatment, whether any important part be injured or not: as, in irritable habits, where very trival local damsige will speedily effect the entire system. The most powerful means of relieving inflammation is by the abstraction of blood. Its beneficial effects principally result from producing a diminution of nervous power ; and that it does accomplish this is proved by the syncope which it occasions. Thus, often the removal of a very small quantity of blood even causes a suspension of the mental faculties, as well as of all the voluntary functions. Fainting, however, cannot be suddenly produced, unless the patient be in the erect position at the time