417 ON PARACENTESIS ABDOMINIS. wine and water. It is an operation which should rather be per formed at the solicitation of the patient than at your own recom- mendation. It has been proposed to take away the cyst, and this I really think may be accomplished—at least small cysts; but large cysts, I feel confident, cannot be thus removed. A gentleman, whom you all respect very much, tried the experi- ment; after having made the opening through the muscles of the abdomen, upon introducing his finger it was found that the sac so firmly adhered to the abdominal parietes, that it was im- possible to carry the operation into effect. LECTURE XLVIl. \ On Paracentesis Abdominis. In the last lecture, gantlemen, I spoke of the operation for the relief of dropsy of the abdomen, whether ascite or encysted dropsy: and in doing so I recommended you not to attempt to perform the operation without distinctly ascertaining a fluctuation, as you might otherwise endanger the abdominal viscera. The operation itself is very simple ; the instruments which you use for this purpose are either the trocar and canula, or the lancet and canula. If it be ascites, the lancet and canula will answer equally well with the trocar and canula, as the fluctuation is very distinct, and there is but little to penetrate; the lancet is indeed preferable in this case, as its use is attended with less risk to the abdominal viscera. The canula which you employ for this purpose should be about three inches long, and made at the extremity like a common catheter, rounded at the end, and ha- ving holes at its sides, but quite straight. You make an incision of about half an inch in length, and then thrusting the canula into the abdomen, the water is removed without danger. On removing the water in ascites, the patient is sometimes seized with spasms in the diaphragm, towards the close of its evacuation, as the diaphragm loses the support of the water. A man who un- derwent the operation in this hospital had violent spasms to- wards the close of the evacuation of the water, and in three days after died. On examining the body after death, it was found that the sharp edge of the canula had lacerated the anterior por tion of the mesentery. On this account 1 now use a canula Toundefl at the edge, instead of the sharp-edged canula. The operation is extremely easy of petfurmance; I have not the in- 2 S