675 ox SUPPURATION IN BONE. Mr. A tnesbury’s splints will be found very useful in the treatment of such cases; they have been used at the other hospitals fre- quently, and I believe have been successful in accomplishing the desired object. It has been recommended to amputate parts which have been injured by compound fracture when tetanus makes its appearance. But I advise you never to do so, as in the cases in which I have seen the practice tried, I have not observed it successful. What I advise you rather to do is, to put some of the o.xtract of opium, liquefied by the addition of a little water, into the wound; I have known this succeed when large doses of musk and opium had been taken without producing any elfect. nltenis tlie most ■proper time to amputate in compound fracture', supposing the operation to be necessary ? All the circumstances before mentioned being taken into ac- count, if it will be necessary to amputate in a few days after the accident, then the sooner it is done the better. If you amputate at one hour after the accident, the patient will do better than if you leave it twe’ve hours For this reason, if you amputate immediately, the constitution has but one shock to sustain, and in general rallies much better than when the am- putation is delayed. But if you leave it eight or twelve hours, there is a great degree of irritation previously set up. The loss of blood is rather a favourable circumstance than otherwise, to precede the operation. The persons in whom these operations succeed the least are such as are loaded with adipose matter; it you leave the limb, the constitutional irritation runs so high that it generally destroys life, and if you amputate, they frequently die in twenty-four hours after the operation, from the constitution being unable to bear the shock which that operation produces. The cases of compound fracture admitted into these hospitals generally do well in the proportion of about three to four, which circumstance, I think, alone would furnish an incontrovertible proof of the superiority of the treatment by adhesion to that which was formerly employed. LECTURE LXXVI. O.v Suppuration in Bonk. Op.NTI.KMKN—A’oscesses are sonetimes found uetweeii the periosteum and surface of the bone, at other times witliin its can- 2 X U