ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 375 if it forms, is not general, being only in some parts, and not in the others; and it is more properly a sanious serum, as it has not the common character of pus. This arises from the attempt at its formation being imperfect; and if you open the swelling, a quantity of bloody serum will be discharged. Prior to an ope- ning being formed, the skin becomes livid, and the breast is very painful in that part where it opens. In general the opening is not made by art, as the object is to prevent ulceration as long as you can ; but when the ulcerative state has begun, the glands above the clavicle enlarge, the arm swell first just above the elbow, then it extends over the hand and fore-arm, and up- per-arm. There is an interruption to the functions of the ab- sorbent system ; the blood is not returned by the veins ; an increased secretion takes place from the termination of the arte- ries ; fluid is thrown out into the cellular tissue, which, when evacuated, coagulates. The constitution is severely aflected, there is a difficulty of breathing ; an inability to lie but on one side, pain in the right side, and also in the loins : and the patient says that she has rheumatic feelings all over the bones. The stomach is deranged ; the patient has severe spasms at the scro- biculus cordis and frequent vomitings ; at last she becomes worn out from irritation, and expires. What do you find on dissection 1 Is the disease confined to the particular part, the breast, or are its effects general 1—Gen- tlemen, I will tell you what you find on examination after death : —The breast is one solid mass, like cartilage, with very little of vascularity, except its edges ; internally fibrous, but the vessels are few, and pass over its surface. When the breast has ac- quired any magnitude, there is generally an opening in it; and then, internally, it has the appearance of being worm-eaten, and is spongy ; at the part where theie is ulceration, it is very vas- cular, and with the ulceration you will find a bloody serum. The absorbent glands put on the same character to the scirrhous breast; but besides this, the scirrhous extends to the cellular membrane, the skin and the muscles ; the skin is scirrhous, the cellular membrame partakes of the inflammation, and also be- comes scirrhous, and the pectoral muscles are full of scirrhous tubercles, which are white and solid ; and thus a great part of its fibres are generally diseased. The glands in the axilla are of a scirrhous nature ; in the beginning they are solid and continue *0 until ulceration commences ; they then become spongy, and contain a tinious serum. The glands above the clavicle are la