ON INFLAMMATION OF THE CONJUNCTIVA^ 277 Of tue Treatment of Simkle Inflammation of the Conjunctiva. It will be necessary to adopt at once, with vigour, the anti- phlogistic plan of treatment. As the best mode of diminishing the action of the heart and arteries, the use of the lancet should be freely resorted to, in the commencement of inflammation of the conjunctiva. You ought not to be satisfied with taking away a certain quantity of blood ; as, for instance, eight, ten, or six- teen ounces ; but you should in this, as in all other cases of acute inflammation, accompanied with hardness of the pulse, make a free orifice in a large vein, and take away a quantity of blood, until some manifest effect is produced upon the action of the heart and arteries ; keep your finger on the pulse of the patient, in order to ascertain how the heart is affected, and carry on the bleeding even to faintness. This may prevent the necessity of again having recourse to the lancet; or if it should be necessary to do so, blood may be taken away in much smaller quantities. You will, of course, be guided by the state of the patient’s pulse, as the only certain criterion ; and when this is diminished, leeches may be afterwards conveniently applied. The application of leeches, in the first instance, except in large numbers, is seldom sufficient in acute inflammation ; three or four leeches will scarcely produce any effect upon it. Open- ing the temporal artery is another mode of bleeding, which is attended with very good effects in this inflammation. This prac- tice has been decried by some persons, who suppose that by opening the temporal artery you force the blood to pass through the anastomosing branches, and in this way throw more blood into those vessels which are immediately distributed to the eye. Whether this be the case or not I am not prepared to determine, but I have certainly seen good effects from opening the temporal artery in this inflammation, and I am therefore often inclined to adopt this practice. Some practitioners recommend the practiee of dividing the vessels of the part by scarifying the conjunctiva. This is a practice, however, which I do not recommend ; the quantity of blood taken in this way is small; the irritation pro- dured in performing the operation is cortsiderable, and the clots of blood left after it often excite or keep up inflammation of the conjunctiva. Great benefit is derived from treatment directed mpre especially to the body at large ; such, for instance, qs-dia-, pboretic medicines. The tartrite of antimony is a very useful