16 ON INFLAMMATION. tides of blood in the part, and may be distinctly seen when the inflammation is superficial, as in inflammation of the conjunctiva of the eye. Second. Increased Sensibility, which is owing to distention of the nerves by the greater quantity of blood determined to them. Parts naturally little sensible are quite the reverse when in a state of inflammation. I was called a short time since to a case where it was requisite to saw off a small piece of the tibia. During the operation I opened a cavity, in which was a small piece of bone embedded in gramulations; the latter were extremely sensitive : extract of belladonna was applied, which gave instant ease. Bones, though nearly destitute of sensation in their healthy state, are sometimes extremely sensitive when inflamed. Third. Increased Heat. Mr. Hunter denied that this existed. He made an incision two inches deep into the gluteal muscles of an ass, and into the wound he introduced a tin canula, one inch and a half long, so that there was half an inch of wound below the canula; he then passed a plug of wood through the canula, to the bottom of the wound, and confined it there, in order to prevent an union of the muscles. This weis on a Wednesday. Immediately after the wound was made, a thermometer was in- troduced into it, and the mercury rose to 100®, exactly as another did at the same time which had been passed into the vagina. On the next morning the plug was taken out, and the ball of the thermometer introduced to the bottom of the wound; the mercury rose to 100°; the plug was then again returned, and secured as before. In the evening the experiment was repeated with the same result. On Friday morning the thermometer, when introduced, rose to 99° only ; and in the evening it rose to 101°. On Saturday morning, when introduced again, the mercury reached 99° ; in the evening 100°. Mr, Hunter also introduced a thermometer into the opening made during the operation for hydrocele, and it rose to 101°; after twenty-fou>’ hours it was no more than 100°. Though no increase of neat is manifested in internal inflammation, yet when it occurs on the surface of the body, an alteration sometimes of several degp^es takes place ; as on the inside of the thigh, where a blister was applied, the thermometer rose to 90° ; while on the inside of the opposite thigh it ouiy reached 83°. Fourth. Swelling. This is owing in part to an increased de- tcnniiiation of blood to the part, and also depends on effusion tf