ON CALCULI IN THE BLADBER. 34S peatmg this question, he replied, “ Yes, Sir, I am better.” “ Oh, you are,” said I, “ how does this happen 1 ” “ Why, Sir,” said the man, “ 1 have learnt to inject opium into my bladder, and this gives me great relief, though I cannot say that any thing I previously tried did me any good.” The opium tranquillized him at first, but after a time it lost its influence, and this man died of an ulcerated bladder. The whole internal surface of the bladder was ulcerated, and covered, with stalactites of triple phosphate. So much for injecting menstrua into the bladder with a view of dissolving the stone: still Jess influence can those menstrua have on the stone when t3-ken internally, and altered as they must be when carried through the circulation, and passing through the process of secretion before they reach the bladder. But though medicines cannot dissolve the stone, they will do good by diminishing the irritability of the bladder. This fact is strongly illustrated by the following Ccise:—Some years ago I happened to be in Norfolk, at a public breakfast, when I asked the lady of a naval officer, how it happened that the admiral was not there. She informed me that he was very ill, and wished me to call upon him. I found him lying on his sofa, suffering under the symptoms of stone, and upon in- troducing a sound, I chipped off a portion of calculus which he passed a short time after. I sent the calculus to Dr. hlar- cet, who, upon analyzing it, found it to be of the mulberry Kind, that is, oxalate of lime, and accordingly advised me to order the patient muriatic acid. 1 was happy to take the advice of Dr. Marcet, upon whose judgment I had the fullest reliance; but the patient derived no benefit from the muriatic acid, and I therefore advised him to take a drachm of the sub- carbonate of soda four times a-day. A considerable time aTer, on going to a consultation on the case of the Duke of Portland, at which Sir Everard Home, and Dr. Reynolds were present. Dr. Reynolds said to me, “ So, you have cured Admiral of his stone.” I smiled, and observed, that I had removed a good many stones, but that I had never cured any body of that disease. Why,” said Dr. Reynolds, “ Admiral tells me, that since he had taken a medicine you recommended to him, he has been so well, that he has been able to go down to a court-mar- tial ; ‘ and if,’ added the Admiral, ‘ you can find me a pretty girl. Doctor , why, I could dance down a five-and-twenty couple with her, (much laughter). ‘ I have continued,’ said the