283 ON FL UI LKNT OPHTHALMIA. lU passage into the woilil. It generally takes place in the first ■week or month after the birth of the child, and seldom later than three months. Another,and one of the most violent forms of purulent ophthal- mia, is that which is called gonorrheal, from its being prod need by the application of gonorrhoeal matter to the conjunctiva. This of all others produces the most intense degree of inflammation. It may be readily traced to the cause I have just stated, in con- sequence of the person labouring under gonorrhoea inadvertently using a towel, or any thing to which the gonorrhoeal matter has been applied, and thus conveying it to the part. I am aware that this inflammation has been stated, upon what may be consi- de ed good authority, to be a metastasis of the gonorrhoeal symp- toms from the urethra to the conjunctiva 1 have never, how- ever, seen a case in which I could,entertain the least suspicion that the complaint was produced in that way, and I do not think that there is sufficient evidence to establish such an opinion. There is another form of ophthalmia, which has been called the epidemic, or Egyptian ; epidemic, in consequence of its attacking a number of persons at the same time in particular districts; and Egyptian, because it resembles that form of ophthalmia with which our troops were attacked in Egypt in the year 1801. This disease was, however, well known in this and other countries long before our soldiers went to Egypt, and it has taken place in districts where there could be no possibility of communication with those soldiers. There can be no doubt that it arises spon- taneously, and often attacks epidemically a number of persons in the same district. How it arises it is difficult to say ; it was supposed to be produced in Egypt by the combined effects of heat and dust; but it is doubtful whether it may not rather arise from some particular state of the atmosphere with which we are not perfectly acquainted. I have only in conclusion to speak of the Treatment op Purulent OpHTHALMrA. If the lancet is to be used in any kind of ophthalmia, it is more especially to be used, not only boldly, but very early in this. It may be said, indeed, that unless some decided im- pression is made on the symptoms in the first twenty-four hours, we shall be unable afterwards to check the progress of the disease. It will be necessary, therefore, to push blood- lett'ng to a very considerable extent, in an early stage of this inflammation. Topical bleeding, by the application of leeches.