ON diseases of the breast. 3S8 see it under the age of twenty-seven. It occurs more frequently then in early life than scirrhous tubercle, and not so frequently in advanced years. It is very uncommon to observe scirrhous be- fore the age of twenty-seven ; but by no means uncommon to see fungus hmmalodes at a much earlier period. 'J'liis disease, in its earlier stages, by no means feels so hard as the true scirrhus. When you press upon it with the finger, the spot readily receive* an indentation; but upon removing the finger, the hollow which it had produced becomes instantly filled again. In the earlier stages, likewise, there is little pain, which is another strong discriminating mark by which y'ou are enabled tn distinguish it from scirrhous tubercle. Practitioners who, fo the first time see this disease, and who happen to be unac- quainted with its nature; unacquainted with the positive and negative diagnostic signs by which it is known, are astonished at the trifling degree of pain which patients feel when these tumours are pressed upon, or indeed when they are even roughly ex- amined. This want of tenderness, then, want of hardness, and want of pain, are the discriminating characteristics which direct your judgment towards forming a correct conclusion as to its true nature ; and at the same time will clearly pourtray to you the difference between it and the genuine scirrhus. In addition to these marks, the tumour which constitutes fungus hmmatodes is not so clearly defined as scirrhous tuber- cle ; it is difficult to say where the diseased structure tenni- nates, and where the healthy structure commences ; the base of the tumour is, therefore, diffused among the healthy cellular membrane, or other parts where it shall happen to be situated; and in this respect differs most decidedly from scirrhous tuber- cle, as I explained to you in the last lecture. There is still, gentlemen, another diagnostic sign in fungus hrematodes of the breast, which is, that the disease may advance even to suppuration and ulceration, without the glands of the axilla becoming at all affected. When this disease exists, and is removed by the knife, it will rather shew itself, should it again appear, in some distant part of the body than in the glands of the axilla. The disease is much quicker in its progress than scirrhous tubercle; it grows much faster, the morbid action appears to be much more active, conse- (|uently, in six or eight months it will have acquired very con siderable.magnitude ; whereas in true scirrhus, at the expiration