ON THE Ol’EKATION lOR OEEKESSION. 308 arul thus disease be communicated to the one which is sound, and an operation be required to be performed on it. I do not think, myself, that this is a sufficient reason, because, under so little excitement, the chance of the other being affected is slight The disadvantages of this plan are various ; 1 know that a sympathy exists between the eyes, and that if inflammation is set up in one it will be excited by sympathy on the other, which may destroy the organ that is sound. But suppose you succeed, what do you effect ! the focus will be different, and the patient will not be able to use both eyes at the same time. Next, where there is only one eye sound, and it performs its office well, and vision is good, it will be better to wait till it becomes dim ; then the operation for restoring the patient to sight may be performed, and two chances be in the patient’s favour. Therefore it seems that in performing the operation for cataract, where one eye only is affected, you expose the patient to the risk of loosing the sight of both. The plan that appears to me to be the best is, not to operate except both are affected ; then you may safely perform the operation. Before speaking of the operation for cataract, it will be ex- pected perhaps to premise by saying something of the treatment; but besides an operation in this complaint very little else in the way of treatment will be of use. Various plans of treatment have been adopted; but without success, iherefbre I shall proceed at once to speak of the operations. The operations for cataract are three in number—first, depression or couching, by which the cataract is removed from the axis of vision ; second, extraction, which consists in making an incision through the cornea ; third, the operation for the solution of the cataract. Operation for Depression on Couching. This mode of operating consists in removing the opaque lens out of the axis of vision by depressing it into the vitreous humour : this is done by a needle, of which there are three different kinds now employed. Key's, Scarpa’s, and Beer’s needles. Key’s needle is about seven-eighths of an inch in length ; it is rounded except at the point, where it is flat for the eighth of an inch ; it termi- nates by a semicircular cutting edge, which ought to be exceed- ingly sharp. Scarpa’s needle is more slender than the other, and curved .at the point. When you look at it sideways, it presents a flat con- vex appearance on the dorsum, it is of a triangular shape towards