ON COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN. 136 Extravasation with concussion renders the case of a different nature; then the symptoms of concussion, such as I described to you on a former evening, come on first, and the apoplectic ster- tors and otlier symptoms of compression, succeed. Now for a case : A gentleman was at a party with some friends. He drank freely of wine and became inebriated. His home was some distance from the place at which he was spending the evening ; and his friends seeing that he would be exposed to great risk, wished him to stop, but he could not be prevailed on. He mounted his horse; and on the way was thrown off. He return- ed home ; fell into a cotamose state ; symptoms of concussion first came on, loss of voluntary motion, at first no appearance of extravasation of blood was present j two, the following morning, apoplectic stertor came on and at eleven he died. In this case, symptoms of concussion came on first, and those of compression afterwards. Blood was found extravasated in the brain, as might be expected. It is found, gentlemen, that the extravasated blood, producing compression of the brain, is generally situated in three different parts:—First, between the dura mater and pia mater. Second, between the pia mater and brain ; and, lastly, within the substance of the brain itself. In this case (Sir Astley pointing to a specimen on the table before him) there was a con- siderable quantity (three ounces) the largest I ever saw effused beneath the dura mater. In this also (pointing to another) there was a large quantity extravasated opposite to the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone and meatus aUditorius extemus; and the dura mater itself was tom. Second, between the pia mater and brain : this is of more common occurrence ; and in this case a large portion of the brain will often be found covered over with blood, not that the quantity of blood extravasated is considerable but a little is diffused over a large space. This portion of brain before me was taken from a man who fell, I believe, from the yard-arm of a ship, and who was carried to the other hospi- tal (Guy’s), he died about four hours after his admission ; and on examining, after death, the vessels going from the pia mater to the brain were completely torn through. Third, within the substance of the brain itself j this (alluding to a specimen on the table) was taken from a person in the city, who had extrava- sation within the brain, from an accident; after the injury he considerably recovered, though pain still continued in the head : jn three months afterwards he died, and on examination there was found in tlie anterior lobe of the cerebrum a coagulum of blood,