ON 11E&NLA. 232 this circumstance that the finger is often lost in oblique inguinal hernia before the stricture can be felt, so far above the ring is it situated. Sometimes the finger feels the stricture an inch above the ring, at others an inch and a half, or even two inches—and in each of these situations it is very common. The third place in which the stricture is found is at the neck of the hernial sac, in consequence of a membranous band crossing it at that part. The following case will illustrate this most clearly; a man was admitted into this hospital having strangulated hernia; after the ordinary means for reducing it had been used without success, it was determined to perform the operation; the finger, after the first division of the supposed stricture, could be freely admitted within the ring, yet the intestines could not be returned into the abdomen ; the opening was enlarged, and the finger ^ain intro* duced, the intestine was again attempted to be returned, and the surgeon, after some difficulty, succeeded in forcing it out of sight; as it was no longer to be seen, he in all probability, thought it out of jeopardy, and the patient was sent to his bed. The follow, ing day, when the dresser went to see this man, he found a portion of intestines protruding j this was allowed to remain—it soon began to slough, which day after day continued to inerease until he died. Upon examination, it was found that there was a membranous band crossing the neck of the hernial sac—the surgeon, therefore, in attempting to return the intestine, had doubled it over this band, consequently the cause of strangulation was never removed; here (holding up a preparation) gentlemen, you have an opportunity of observing the sac and band of which I have just been speak- ing ; and you now see the intestine still in a strangulated state. It is not, therefore, sufficient to divide the stricture ; but before the operation can be complete, you must be satisfied that the cause of strangulation is likewise removed, and that the intestine has been decidedly returned within the cavity of the abdomen. Another cause of strangulation, gentlemen, arises from a por- tion of intestine being occasionally entangled in a part of the omentum. I saw a case of this kind in a patient under the care of Mr Pew, of Fenchurch-street; after having divided the stric- ture, I was obliged, as it were, to unravel the intestine from the omentum, and even tore through a part of the omentum, before I was enabled to remove the cause of strangulation. There are Jour situations in which the stricture is to be mqt with : At the abdominal ring in large and old hernia; in ordinary