ON DISLOCATIONS. 6J7 of the accident these circumstances render it difficult to decide on the absolute nature of the injury; and the difficulty is in- creased exactly in proportion to the time that has been allowed to elapse after the accident. When, therefore, the swelling has subsided, the muscles are wasted, and the motions of the limb impeded in a particular direction, and the head of t;he bone can he distinctly felt: it would be both illiberal and unjust to throw out any insinuations tending to the prejudice of an individual who might have given a different opinion under circumstances so much more unfavourable for forming a correct conclusion. The blood-vessels sometimes sustain great injury in dislocation. In a case, where the dislocation of the clavicle, at its sternal end, occurred backwards, the subclavian artery was so much injured, that the pulsation at the wrist was stopped, and the circulation carried on by the anastomosing vessels. In another case, also, the brachial artery suffered so much that it was necessary to tie the subclavian. On dissection of those who die from dislocations arising from violence, it is found that the capsular ligament is. tom transversely to a great extent, and the peculiar ligaments of the joint are ruptured. In dislocation of the hip, the ligamen- tum teres, I believe, is always ruptured; frequently apiece of the cartilage is separated with it, and sometimes even portions of the bone. In dislocations of the os humeri, the tendon of the biceps remains uninjured, in the cases which I have hitherto seen; but the muscles and tendons connected to the joint are very much injured, especially the subscapularis. Whenever the thigh-bone is dislocated into the foramen ovale, the fibres of the pectinalis are torn, and those of the adductor are very much injured. There is generally great extravasation, and sometimes matter forms in four or five days. But the most curious cases are those in which the nature of the accident has not been detected. The head of the bone becomes much altered in figure, and this alteration is very much influenced by the structure on which it presses, whether on the bone or on muscles. Changes likewise take place in the soft parts, new capsular liga- ments of condensed cellular tissue are formed by the pressure; the tendons of the muscles, which were torn through, become united, and the muscles accommodate themselves to their new axes, and the limb is thus newly, yet permanently, establishijd. This account shows the folly of attempting to reduce a dislocation, after a long time has elapsed. Even in one case, where the dis- location of the humerus had only existed six weeks, the fibre-.) and