341 SIZE 01 CALCULI. Etone ; a consultation was had upon his case, and it was deemed advisable' that the operation should not be performed. He went back to, Southampton, where after suffering extremely from the stone, he had it removed from the bladder, by Mr. Lightford of Manchester. The stone was of such magnitude, that it was at first supposed that I had removed one stone, and left another in the bladder. A little time after the second operation, hov/ever, he began again to complain of symptoms of stone ; he died a few months after, and upon examination after death, three calculi, as far as I recollect, were found in his bladder. When 1 perceive the appearances which I have described to you, namely the sub- stance resembling mortar, which is in fact the ammoniaco-mag- nesian phosphate, 1 generally dissuade the patient from submit- ting to the operation. Another case, illustrating the rapid repro- duction of the triple phosphate, strikes my mind at this moment. I removed a stone of this kind from a gentlemall who came to me from Liverpool. A short time after he began to complain of symptoms of stone, and upon sounding him I felt the instrument moving in a quantity of calculus concretions. He suffered extre- mely from this second formation of calculus, and requested him- self that the operation might be again performed. I performed the operation, and removed a quantity of triple phosphate mixed with a large portion of coagulated blood. He recovered also from this operation, but before he left town to return to Liver- pool the same material formed again in his bladder ; I introduced pair of forceps for the extraction of small calculi, and extract- ed eight portions of triple phosphate from his bladder. \Vhen- ever you observe the symptoms of triple phosphate calculus, be upon your guard against performing the operation, until you have corrected the disposition to its reproduction in the manner which I shall point out to you when I come to speak of tile medical treatment applicable to calculous affections. The mulberry cal- culus, which consists of oxalate of lime, is, to a certain degree, soluble in the acids ; it will be proper, therefore, to give in these cases muriatic or sulphuric acid j the muriatic acid is generally preferred. The cystic oxide has the appearances of brown sugar in a state of crystallization ; it is not composed of concentric la- mellae. A stone from the kidneys has been analyzed by Dr. Maroet, and found to be one of this species, but the opinion once entertained that it b formed in the bladder itself, is not conect. Mr. Brande has analyzed 150 calculi, in order to ascertain the