ON EXTRACTION OF THE CATARACT 311 str.iight. Ware’s knife was an improvement on Wenzel’s; it is much less spear-pointed; the edges are straight as in Wenzel’s, but while the lower edge is cutting, the superior edge is only cut- ting towards the point. From the point towards the handle there was a gradual increase in the size of the knife, a circumstance upon which Ware particularly insisted, in order that the knife, on being carried onwards, might always follow up the opening, so as to prevent the escape of the aqueous humour. Wenzel’s knife, how- ever, and Ware’s improvement upon it, are greatly inferior to the knife contrived by Beer, the celebrated oculist of Vienna. This knife, as you will observe, is very different in shape (the learned gentleman exhibited the different instruments to the class) ; the up- per edge is quite straight, while the lower edge is piade straight and oblique ; the whole of the lower edge is cutting ; the upper edge is cutting towards the point, and the size is accurately increased from the point towards the handle, so as to fill up the opening, and prevent the escape of the aqueous humour. Beer’s knife is preferable to either of the others, because there is a much greater extent of cutting surface, so that the section of the cornea is com- pleted in a shorter time and in a safer manner ; it is besides ca- pable of being made with much greater accuracy. A speculum was sometimes used in this operation, but it is not at all neces- sary ; in fact, all specula are objectionable, as they are likely to produce undue pressure on the globe of the eye. The next in- strument is a pair of curved scissors, in order to enlarge the open- ing made into the cornea, if it should not be of sufficient size to extract the cataract. A minute curved needle will be required, in order to scratch the capsule of the crystalline lens ; a curette, or scoop, to remove any opaque fragments of the lens, and a pair of minute forceps, of which the best construction is that recom- mended by Beer, to extract any portions of opaque membrane from the capsule of the lens. These are the principal instru- ments required in this operation. Let us next consider the mode of performing it. The position of the patient should be nearly the same as that in the operation for couching; he should be 9laced opposite a window, so as to admit a full, clear, but not too vivid light. It should not be a reflecting light, so that if the sun (hould happen to shine, a north window should be chosen ; the inner side of the eye towards the nose, where the point of the knife is’to be carried through, should be well brightened. The patient should be seated in a low chair with a high back, hii.