ON SOLUTION OF THE CATARACT. 317 bility to cataract in children, and to some cases of cataract in adults. Dr. Saunders, therefore, may he justly considered as the inventor of this operation, and is entitled to our respect and admiration for the introduction of so material an improvement in this branch of surgery. The operation is very simple ; it consists merely in making an opening in the anterior layer of the capsule of the lens, breaking up more or less the texture of the cataract, and admitting the aqueous humour in which the cataract is dissolved, and by this means absorbed. It may be more properly called an operation for the absorption, than for the solution of the cataract, since absorption is the ultimate ob- ject of it. The instrument required is a needle, very similar to that employed in the operation for couching ; the point, how- ever, is somewhat different; its shoulders are^ made cutting. It will be right, before the operation, to use belladonna for the purpose of dilating the pupil, so that the cataract may be dis- tinctly seen. A small quantity of the extract of belladonna, softened to the consistence of cream, may be introduced into the eye, or smeared round the lids. In operating on the aduh, the patient should be placed in the same position as in the operation for couching ; children are better- placed in the recumbent pos- ture, with the head fixed on a pillow. Sometimes a speculum is required to steady the eye ; Pellier’s speculum is the best for this purpose. The needle may be introduced either in the same way as in the operation for couching, or else through the cornea. In the latter case there are two modes of operating, called the anterior and the posterior. In the former the needle is intro- duced at the distance of half a line from the junction of the cornea with the sclerotica, carried parallel to the iris, and turned inwards, so as to break up a portion of the capsule of the lens. In the posterior operation the needle is carried through the pos- terior chamber, a little behind the iris, and the texture of the capsule is broken up in the same way, so as to admit the aqueous humour. If the cataract be fluid, it immediately mixes with the aqueous humour, and you will have no more trouble. As to the after-treatment your object must be, as in the former cases, to prevent inflammation. It is better in this operation not to attempt to do too much at once ; but rather to repeat it frequently, than to break up the texture too extensively at once. Having described these different operations, it may be neces-