ON HEilNIA. 226 A patient with irreducible hernia is always exposed to consi- derable danger from blows which he may receive. If the hernia burst, the intestine may be returned into the abdomen, but the omentum in general cannot be returned. When a hernia is rendered irreducible by the growth of the mesentery or omentum, there is no doubt that a patient may be relieved by abstinence in diet, and by taking such means as are calculated to reduce the bulk. Few patients, however, can be induced to observe such a degree of abstinence as may lead to the absorption of a considerable quantity of adeps, but the effects which disease produces upon hernia, by reducing the bulk of the patient, prove that benefit would arise from adopting a plan of abstinence. A man, who had water in his chest, came to town in consequence of an irreducible hernia, which he found ex- tremely troublesome. When I visited him, he told me that his hernia had never disturbed him until of late, when he had been troubled by a severe cough. lie had at this time swellings in the legs, and other symptoms of water on the chest. He became very much reduced by this disease, and the hernia which was previously irreducible became reducible, and was readily returned into the cavity of the abdomen, in consequence of the absorption of fatty matter in the omentum and mesentery, by the effects of his disease. If the hernia is rendered irreducible, in consequence of the formation of a membranous band across the sac, you can- not depend upon any plan to effect its reduction. The long- continued application of cold will sometimes effect reduc- tion. A gentleman in the profession, from Edinburgh, who was going out to a situation in India, after travelling all night in the mail to London, was unable to return his hernia into the abdomen. He was quite free from pain, and there was no gurgling noise indicating the presence of intestine. I told him, therefore, that I did not think it of much consequence, but that he should make pressure upon it by wearing a truss. He was unwilling, however, to go out to India with his hernia for a com- panion ; nnder these circumstances 1 told him I did not exactly know what to recommend, but that I would advise him to place himself in a recumbent posture, and apply ice to the scrotum regularly every day ; by this means a reduction of lU bulk wm at length, though very gradually, effected,so that the hernia could be returned into the abdomen.