CABSESOF CATAUACT. 305 difficulty, from the size of the lens; and the rays of light are prevented from entering. The patients sometimes cannot distin- guish between light end darkness ; although they are seldom so blind as this. MEiiBRANOtis Cataract. This form of cataract is not connected with the lens, but the capsule itself. This opacity may exist either in the posterior or anterior layer of the capsule, or combined with that of the lens, and thus produce cataract. In this last case there is no distinct mark of diagnosis; but when the capsule only is af- fected, you may offer an opinion. If the anterior layer of the c.ipsule is opaque, it has the appearance of being superficial and close to the pupil, and appears rather nebulous. It does not quite lose its transparency, but becomes semi-transparent. When the posterior layer is affected, this appearance is deeper ; being at a considerable depth, and having more or less of a con- cave form. There are also striae passing in a radiated direction. If you observe, then, the opacity deep-seated, and the lens ap- pearing concave, you may know that the posterior layer of the capsule is opaque ; but when this ctate is combined with opacity of the lens, the diagnosis will be difficult. Another species of membranous cataract is, when the capsule becomes opaque, and the lens at the same time absorbed, and a tough, dense, membranous substance is formed, as in congenital cataract. These are the different marks that I have to offer to you for detecting the different kinds of cataract; but you see, from the nature of the observations, how difficult it is to distin- guish them. But it is necessary, as far as is possible, to be acquainted with the appearances each form of cataract pre- sents, as the treatment or operation required must be adapted according to the kind of cataract. Causes of Cataract. I have not much to offer you on this head, as the causes of cataract are in general very obscure. Cataract, however, some- times arises from obvious causes—injury, violence, inflammation, or sharp-pointed bodies wounding the capsule of the lens, or the lens itself, and consequently, producing opacity of these parts. I'he opacity arising from this cause often becomes absorbed, and the case undergoes the natural process of cure without requiring an operation. It is produced too by inflammation of the globe cf the eye; but then the cataract is capsular, and not lenticular.