DISLOCATIONS OF THE THIGH-BONB. and the leg be carried inwards across the other. But the best plan, in general, is to fix the pelvis, by a girt passed round it, and crossed under that which passes round the thigh, to which the pullies are to be attached, otherwise the pelvis moves in the same direction as the thigh. If the dislocatioti has existed for three or four weeks, it is better to place the patient on his sound side, and fix the pelvis by one bandage, and carry another under the dislocated thigh, to which the pullies are to be aflfixed per- pendicularly; then draw the thigh upwards, and, at the same time, press down the knee and foot, to prevent the lower part of the limb being carried with the thigh, and you thus use the limb as a lever of considerable power. But, take care not to ad- vance the leg too much, as the head of the bone would be forced behind the acetabulum into the ischiatic notch, from which it would be extremely difficult to remove it. LECTURE LXXII. On Dislocations of the Thigh-Bone. Gentlemen—It is exceedingly curious and interesting, both to the physiologist and to the surgeon, to observe the efforts set up by nature for the restoration of lost or injured parts ; and in no instance is this more conspicuous than in dislocations of the thigh-bone, which have remained long unreduced. Here, gen- tlemen, are some beautiful specimens (referring to what were on theUble), in which you may see the accommodation of the head of the bone to the surface with which it has been brought into contact; here are new capsular ligaments, produced from con- densations of cellular tissue, here are new acetabula, formed by the pressure of the head of the bones, causing a partial absorption of the bones on which they rest, assisted also by the deposit of matter in the surrounding parts, resembling cartilage. In this preparation, particularly, which is a dislocation into the foramen ovale, you see the obdurator extemus completely absorbed, as well as the ligament of the foramen ovale, and its place occupied by a deposit of ossific matter. Bone is also deposited around the foramen, so as to form a deep socket, in which the head of the thigh-bone is enclosed, and surrounding its neck so closely, that you could not remove the bone without breaking the edges of its new socket; this is extremely smooth on its inner surface, and allows of very extensive motion of the joint, which appeared