ACUTE AND CHRONIC ABSCESS. 75 of the water But what was the consequence 1 when the air be- came absorbed the adhesive inflammation did not take place, and the hydrocele returned. Again, experiments have been made on animals ; air has been blown into the cellular membrane of a dog ; nothing but a tem- porary stifFness from the distention of the skin takes place, and when the air is absorbed, the crackling goes off without the ad- hesive inflammation. Dr. Haighton made an ingenious experi- ment some years ago ; he inflated the abdomen of a dog from an opening in the tunica vaginalis ; and this mode' of doing it evinced his knowledge; for in the dog and many other animals, there is a communication with the abdomen from under the tunica viginalis. The dog was let loose : he was stiff for a few days, but when the air was absorbed he became quite well. I know a curious circumstance which took place at the depot at Norwich ; it was at the time when persons were drawn to serve in the army. A man, unwilling to become a soldier, came to the surgeon, and said that he had a lar ge rupture, wliich dis- abled him ; he showed it, and the surgeon sent him away. This man had made a puncture just above the pubis, and inflated it with a brass blow-pipe ; the man himself mentioned it to a sur- geon at Yarmouth as a joke. What takes place when air is ad- mitted into the cavity of the chest! An air cell gives way, the wind goes into the cellular tissue, the face and body become bloated up, but is afterwards removed by absorption, without producing any inflammation; thus a person who holds that the admission of air into cavities produces the irritation attending the opening of abscesses takes a narrow and partial view of the case. [After the lecture, the stomach of a dog which died of hy ■ drophobia was exhibited to the class. The oesophagus was in flamed, and the internal surface itself very red ; there were also deposits of coagulated blood between the mucous and mus- cular coats, an appearance which. Sir Astley said, had always been observed in dogs that had died of this complaint. The animal had unfortunately bitten four persons, who were under medical treatment.]