ON COMPOUND FRACTURES. 671 giving some saline medicines, as the liq. ammon. acot. These symptoms generally make their appearance in persons who nave lived irregularly, either as regards their diet or their habits. Be very cautious about the administration of purgatives, as they disturb the patient very much ; but if absolutely necessary, give an enema. Another obstacle met with in the treatment of compound frac- ture is an excessive spasmodic action of the muscles. This action is sometimes so violent as to render all your attempts to overcome it absolutely nugatory. In one case it disturbed the limb so much as to render amputation necessary, and on dissection it was found that there was a piece of bone separated from the other parts, and locked between the extremities of the bone. It is sometimes necessary to amputate from a want of union between the fractured ends of the bone; and on this subject I can furnish you with the knowledge of a circumstance that may be of the greatest importance in your future practice. You may recol- lect having seen me amputate, a short time since, the leg of a young woman in Dorcas’ Ward for a great deformity of the limb; it unfitted her for any of the ac ive duties of life, and she therefore became desirous of having it removed. By some mis- management or other the bone was fractured in the process of parturition, and although she is now about nineteen years of age, there has not been the least attempt made towanls ossific union. The part where the fracture took place was as flexible as a joint, and I therefore wish to put you ou your guard, so that you may be very careful to avoid so distressing an accident. I have met with other cases of a similar description, and therefore I am in- clined to think that it is generally the result of fracture occurring at that period. The ordinary treatment of these cases is, to bandage the limb firmly, buckle on a case of firm leather over the limb, and adjust carefully a splint on each side of it, so that no lateral motion may be allowed. If it should happen in the leg, let the patient walk as much as she can on crutches, and thus, by making pres- sure on the ends of the bone, bring on a suflicient degree of in- flammation to throw out adhesive, and, afterwards, ossific matter. I believe non-union is sometimes the result of continuing cold applications for too long a period to the part, thus checking that degree of inflammatory action which is absolutely necessary to bring about a restoration of the parts. But if proi>erly managed it is generally unnecessary to amputate in this state of the jarts.