FRACTURES OF THE NECK OF THE THIGH-BONE. 655 described, are seen at any age under fifty, it will generally be found to be a fracture external to the ligament, and is capable o{ union by ossific matter. Yet it must also be remembered, that this fracture may occur in more advanced age, and therefore re- quires care in the discrimination of the two. The second sign of this accident is, that it is usually the result of some very sewre injury, as blows received on the part, from falling upon some projecting body, or from heavy carriages passing over the limb ; whilst the fracture within the capsule occurs from any slight cause. It may be known, in the third place, by the crepitus, which is pro- duced by a slight motion of the limb; and it is not necessary, in this accident, to draw the leg down to feel the crepitus, as the retraction is not so great as in the former accident. There is also usually great extravasation into the surrounding parts, and this swelling is quickly followed by great tenderness to the touch. There is also violent pain produced upon slight motion of the joint, followed by a high degree of constitutional irritation ; and many months elapse before the patient recovers a proper use of the limb. The principle to be attended to in the treatment of this fracture is, the approximation of the bones by pressing the trochanter towards the acetabulum ; at the same time preserving the length of the limb, by applying a roller around the foot of the injured leg, and binding it firmly to the sound one; thus making the sound limb afford support, and act as a splint to the fractured one. A broad leather strap should be buckled around the pelvis, and include the trochanter major, so as to press the fractured portions of the bone firmly together; and the best po- sition in which you can place the limb is in a straight line with the body. I have also known cases do very well where the patient has been laid on his back on a mattress, and the thigh brought over the double inclined plane, which may be very easily made by three boards; one passing from the tuberosity of the ischium to the foot, and the two others having a joint in the middle, by which you can increase the elevation of the angle as may be re- quired ; over these a pillow should bn thrown. A long splint should be then placed on the outer side of the thigh, fastened above with a strong strap around the pelvis, and secured below by another strap round the knee, so as to prevent the knee being moved from its position. This must be persevered in for several weeks, and the patient may then be allowed to rise from his bed, the attempt do not give much pain. He must still, however,