ON DISEASES OF THE DREAST. S95 each measures as are calculated to restore to its proper quantity and condition, the uterine secretion. It has happened that some practitioners have removed a great portion of the glandular part of the breast on account of these irritable swellings. Such operations are not only unnecessary, but highlv improper, as it is impossible that they can prove of any service, for the irritable breast is sure to return unless the menstrual discharge be restored to its natural stale; to accom- plish this, the best medicine you can administer is misturi feiri composita, an ounce and a half of it two or three times a day ; or from two to five grains of the ferrum ammoniatum, two or three times a day, and from this combination of ammonia and steel 1 have seen the greatest possible benefit result to tlje patient. As the uterine discharge increases, the irritation in the breast lessens, and will soon completely disappear. Several surgeons are in the habit of applying leeches to breasts thus affected j whether they prove advantageous or not, 1 think, is exceedingly equivocal, for by diminishing the strength, it is possible they may prove highly injurious. Be particularly upon your guard against operating for the removal of these irritable swellings; such operations will prove hurtful to your reputation. Bather attempt to cure the disease by restoring to its proper quantity the uterine secretion ; the irritable tumours of the breast are so common, that you will not have been in practice six months without having met with several such cases. Op Carcinom.a in she Nipple op Man. The nipple of men is sometimes affected with cancerous ul- ceration, similar to the breasts of women: it fiegins in the same way, in the form of the scirrhous tubercle ; here, however, it is generally in the immediate neighbourhood of the nipple. An incrustation forms on the surface of the nipple ; this drops off, another succeeds it, and another to that again until an ulcer is produced, and ultimately the whole nipple is destroyed ; then the glands in the axilla, and likewise those above the clavicle, become diseased ; and men die from this complaint precisely in the same manner as women do from cancerous breasts. In this disease the chance of success from an operation depends upon its being performed before the axillary glands become diseased ; it those glands are diseased, you should not then employ the knife; the result of two cases, v/liich I saw some years ago, fully con- vinced me of the propriety of what i am now telling you. In