ON DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 37S back to Guy’s with a considerable swelling of the breast, which on examination I found to be partly solid, and partly fluid. The gfentlemen assembled in the theatre to see the operation ; I ordered this patient into the room, and said that I should not re- move the breast, but simply introduce a lancet into it, ana open the swelling. Having done this, water, paler and less coloured than serum, escaped in abundance through the opening. I sard, "All that it %vill be necessary to do here, will be to produce the adhesive or suppurative inflammation. Do not close the opening till the adhesive process has commenced, and glued the sides of the cyst.” This was done, the sides of the cyst were glued together, the opening was closed, and the patient discharged quite cured. Case II.—During last summer a lady came to me with a swelling of the breast, not very large, but hard. At first I was led to think it scirrhous, but did not decide on its character , and on looking at the constitution of the patient, I was pretty well assured that it was not scirrhous, nor of a malignant kind. I said that I would watch it; and told the patient that all it was necessary to do would be to attend to the state of her bowels. She came to me from time to time, and I perceived that in the centre some fluid was forming. After some time the fluid accu- mulated, and one day I put a. lancet into the swelling, and dis- charged a quantity of serum. I put some lint into the wound so as to form a tent to preserve the opening: in a short time granulations arose from the bottom of the cyst, and the lady be- came perfectly cured, no disease having returned in the breast. It will be proper to put you on your guard against malignan) diseases of the breast, which are not so numerous as is thought. A great number of the affections of the breast are capable of cure; and it requires attentive observation to distinguish one from the other ; therefore when you see diseases of the breast, do not be in too great haste to put them under any classification, for if you do, you will frequently be liable to error. We now come to the scirrhous tumour of the breast. There are but two malignant diseases of the breast; this is one of them, and the other is the fungous tumour. The scirrhous tumour is the one which I shall describe in this evening’s lecture, of the other I shall speak at a future time. Op the Scirrhous Breast. This is an extremely frequent disease, and its symptoms are as follow: The first sympton of scirrhous breast is the discovery