ON GRANULATION. 79 became excessive : convulsive tremors of the muscles succeeded, and the patient died. I was sure that he died from the influence of arsenic in the system ; and upon examination of the body after death, I found the stomach in the highest degree inflamed, and exhibiting the peculiar appearance which is produced by arsenic, and not by poisons generally. I believe, therefore, that this per- son died from the application of the arsenical solution. Quacks are in the habit of destroying tumours of the breast by the use of arsenic. Women are sometimes, though very rarely foolish ; and they will undergo any torture which is not inflicted by a knife, rather than submit to an operation that would not give them a tenth part of the pain which they suffer from such applications. They go to a person who tells them of the number of cures he has performed by means of a specific used for the purpose of de- stroj-ing scirrhouse affections; and, indeed, these quacks very frequently destroy the schix-rhous part, and the patient too. Mr. Pollard, a surgeon, told me, the other day, of a person in town, who applied an arsenical preparation for a scirrhous affection of the breast, in consequence of which the patient died in less than a week. I had myself to perform an operation for a scirrhous breast, to which arsenic had been applied. I asked the woman which gave her most pain, the application of the arsenical pre- paration or the operation. She replied that the pain of the operation was not so great as that of the application, and that the arsenic had been applied ten or eleven times. The conse- quence of these applications is, that they become absorbed into the system, and produce derangement of the stomach, the intes- tinal canal, and the nervous system, and sometimes paralysis. While I am on this subject, I will mention a case to you which occurred in this town, and which I should have scarcely believed, if it had not come wthin my own know- ledge. A person in this metropolis happened to have bow shins. It was a part of his duties to teach ladies to draw and paint, and in the prosecution of this branch of his pro- fession, he found his bow shins, as he himself declared to me, a very great evil. He felt that his merits were less fairly ap- preciated, and his instructions less kindly received, by reason of the convexity of his shins ; he was persuaded, in short that his bow shins stood between him and his preferment. Under this impression, he went to a very noted person in this town, and showing him his bone said to him, “ Pray, Sic,