ON STRUMOUS OPHTHALMIA. 287 too far, and throughout the whole treatment it will be necessary to keep in view the nature of the constitution which is generally met with in scrofulous subjects ; it is languid and debilitated ; the digestive organs are deranged ; there is loss of appetite—tongue white and furred j bowels torpid; secretions defective in quan- tity and in quality—skin dry and hot; in fact there is a good deal of fever present. The mild depleting plan must be first adopted, regulated as far as the constitution will bear it: you must re- move the symptoms of irritation ; open the bow'els freely by ca- lomel purges, repeated more or less frequently as they improve the secretions. Alterative mercurial medicines should then be given, and if necessary they should be combined with rhubarb and mag- nesia, but not so as as produce watery stools. When the fever becomes diminished, the bowels perform their natural functions, the tongue looks clean, and the skin as- sumes its healthy feel,you may begin with tonic remedies. Aro- matic bitters, combined with alkalies, will be found useful reme- dies. But at the same time you must amend the state of the con- stitution by attention to regimen and diet. The food should be' light and nutritious, clothing warm. Exercise should likewise be taken; not to such an extent as to produce febrile excitements, but to invigorate the health. Sea-bathing will be of advantage ; and when the constitution is not in that state to bear the cold-bath, the warm should be used ; and if the patient is in a situation where sea-bathing cannot be resorted to, he should sponge him- self with tepid water, gradually accustoming himself to the use of cold ; by this means the general health will be much improved. As for the treatment of the part affected, it w'ill be right to em- ploy depletion at the onset, as far as the application of leeches It will be proper also to apply blisters behind the ears; or to the nape of the neck ; and blisters in this complaint are no ordinarj remedy. You will be surprised to find, after the application of a blister, how soon the intolerance of light will vanish, even in children ; their di.sposition will rapidly alter, and the inflamma- tion be so slight, that you can actually open their eyes without any trouble. Warm and moist applications are beneficial; the steam of water containing opium allowed to go on the eyes will be good. Alxiut a drachm of opium dissolved in a pint of hot water, and the steam of it directed over the eye, will relieve, to> a considerable degree, the irriution. But if any of these appli.> cations be >iscd at the onset, they must not be lonj continued be- >