409 ON VIRULENT GONORUIItEA. traded and small, and it is here that yqu will be obstructed, if jou attempt to pass a straight bougie. The next situation in \ which we find stricture, is in the membranous portion of the ur“- ) hra, or that part between the bulb and prostate gland ; the next J situation is in the prostate gland itst If. T here is no part of the urethra which is not liable to stricture, but most frequently it is found in the three situations I have described to you. First, just / at the beginning of the bulb; second, at the membranous (or as it ought more properly speaking to be called, the muscular) part; and, thirdly, in the prostate gland itself. Well, upon proceeding in our dissection, what ^ve find to re- sult from stricture of the urethra is extraordinary dilatation of the urethra itself behind the stricture. Here (holding up a prepa- ration) you have an opportunity of seeing this fact. The stric- ture, you observe, one inch from the extremity of the penis and the urethra, has become so much enlarged, that it will receive the finger between the bulb and seat of stricture. The next cir- cumstance we observe, upon dissection, is an enormous thicken- ing of the coats of the bladder; tliis arises from the increased action which the muscular fibres have to undergo ; for, the urine being frequently discharged, the muscular fibres contract to pro- duce the expulsion, and thus increase in size, in consequence of their increased action. Thus, then, recollect, that in strictures the bladder is thickened and irritable. Well, then, the next thing we observe is enlargement of the urethra; and this isowing to the urine collected in these tubes, from its not finding a ready passage into the bladder; therefore the ureters themselves become bladders. Proceeding in our dissection, we often find the kidneys dis- eased, and their glandular structure entirely absorbed ; and it not unfrequently happens, that strictures will produce disease in the kidneys, which disease will prove destructive to life. In stric- ture, diseased kidneys prove advantageous, in one point of view, which is the diminution of the secretion of the urine; if this, however, continues for any length of time, the constitution will sink from the non-excrelion of that fluid : one kidney is generally more affected than the other. 1 have just stated to you, that the glandular structure is sometimes entirely absorbed, and the kid- ney is occasionally, in cases of stricture, so distended with urine, as almost to aieswer the purpose of a bladder. Well, such are the appearances found uoon dissection of those who die of stricture.