70 ACUTE AND CHRONIC ABSCESS. importance ; linseed-meal and water, bread and water, &c. No stimulating application would do ; the object is to preserve the heat and moisture of the part; and to prevent evaporation, let the part be enveloped in oil-silk, for, by its assistance, the heat of a part is preserved, and evaporation prevented. It is desirable in the suppurative process to prevent evaporation ; oil-silk is what IS generally used then in private practice; it is clean, agreeable to the patient, and most conducive to his comfort. Before proceeding to the consideration of chronic abscesses, I will say a few words on the opening of abscesses. If an acute abscess seems disposed to go through its different stages without any interruption, the best practice is to leave it undis- turbed. Acute abscesses, beginning under aponeurotic fasci®, ought to be opened as early as possible ; the earlier the better. The moment one drop of matter may be felt to fluctuate, it is advisable to make a free opening, both as regards the constitution and the part. Whenever the matter can be felt close to bone, it will be right to open it, excepting in cases where it may occur from severe courses of mercury, between the cranium and peri- craneum. Mercury will inflame the periosteum (and the peri- craneum is a part of the periosteum) to a greater degree than the venereal disease itself; and in those cases where a fluid exists between the pericranium and bone, unattended with any blush, do not open it; it will be removed by purging, and giving boun- tifully the decoction of sarsaparilla. But when matter is formed, and there is a blush, it will not be absorbed; an opening must be made, exfoliation will often take place ; but when there is no blush, beware ol opening the tumour. Now, gentlemen, the treatment of chronic abscesses will be very different from those of the acute kind. In the last case, you wish to diminish the state of excitement in the constitution ; and in the former you do all you can to give it additional powers, by allowing generous diet, and giving the patient ammonia and bark; the ammonia is the medicine on which the principal reli- ance is to be placed. You know that of late bark has not been much used ; but people are apt to run into extremes—bark asissts the suppurative process; generous diet must be allowed in order to increase the action of the parts, by giving tone to the constitu- tion. Stimulant poultices should be applied to the part, and the best I know is the muriate of soda (common salt) and water, a meat-spoonful of the salt to a pint of water, and the poultice