ON HERNIA. 223 which after hearing the lecture that night, I was sure was a her- nia. Mr. Cline laughed, gave me a common truss of this descrip- tion, which I wore for three years; at the expiration of which time I had not the slightest appearance of hernia. I would not, however, leave the truss off, but I continued to wear it for two yeajs longer, and, from that time up to the present moment, I never had the least appearance of the complaint. The circum- stance to which I allude may, perhaps, have given me a greater inclination to attend to this disease, and to investigate all the facts connected with it. Of late years many improvements have been made in trusres. Here is a spring-truss (exhibiting it to the class), invented by Mr. Egg, which does not require any string, but is merely put round the body. This truss answers the purpose extremely well, and may be worn by night as well as by day. A most ingenious truss, which has now come into general use, was invented some years ago by Mr. Salmon, a gentleman to whom the profession is indebted for many other ingenious in- ventions. This truss, of which the principle is entirely new, is very easily applied, and may be very conveniently worn. One pad is placed upon the inguinal canal, on the side of the hernia, and the other pad on the base of the os sacrum. This truss is not liable to shift its place, and is now in very general use for inci- pient hernias, or hernias which are difficult to keep supported. There is, however, one objection to this truss, and that is, that it cannot be worn during the night, which is necessary to produce a cure of hernia. I am aware that some persons say it is of no consequence whether the patient wear a truss or not, when he is in a recumbent posture, but I do not agree in this opinion. Un- less a constant pressure be kept up on the inguinal canal, ad- hesion of the sides of the sac will not be produced. Besides, if the person cough in the night, or get out of bed to make water, the hernia is liable to descend, and if this sliould happen, though he may have worn the truss steadily for twelve months before, lie must begin to date his cure from the last time at which the hernia descends. For this reason I recommended the contrivance of a truss of this kind, which might be worn equally well night and day, and j\Ir. Ody, the successor of Mr. Salmon, has invented a truss of this descnption. (The learned lecturer exhibited one of Mr