ON HERNIA. 281 in inflammation of a strangulated intestine, contained in a hernial sac j here it is rendered exceedingly dark, owing to the interrup- tion of the return of blood occasioned by the stricture. The ge- neral character of parts in a gangrenous state is their being in- elastic and readily yielding to pressure. Well, then, continuing the examination—as soon as you cut into the cavity of the abdo- men, there will burst forth a considerable quantity of gas, and the intestines within the abdomen, wherever they are found in contact, will be seen having upon them a red line, which red line will only be perceptible in those situations where the diffe- rent convolutions touch each other ; such, then, are the appear- ances discovered upon dissection of those who die of strangulated hernia. The next circumstance to look for is the seat of stric- ture ; this is sometimes found at the abdominal ring, but not generally, except in old berniae. It is quite an erroneous opinion to suppose that the stricture is usually situated at the ring; even tlie apprentices of these hospi- tals can tell you the contrary, and certainly it is not situated there in one case out of five, excepting, as 1 before remarked, in very large and old hernite. Those surgeons, therefore, who be- lieve that the stricture in strangulated hernia is situated at the abdominal ring are quite unequal in point of surgical knowledge to the performance of this operation. Far be it from me to ransack the graves of those who have been ^destroyed by surgeons, who suppose that the abdominal ring is the only situation at which stricture occurs. He, there- fore, who goes to the operation with a belief that he shall find the stricture at the ring, and that it is not to be found at any other situation, is most lamentably ignorant of the true nature of this disease. In large old herni®, the stricture certainly generally happens at the abdominal ring ; but in recent herni®, and those of a smaller size, it usually occurs above it, as I shall presently explain to you. Well, then, where is the stricture commonly situated in stran- gulated inguinal hernia I Why. I will tell you, gentlemen, oppo- site the tendon of the transversalis muscle, which circumstance is often produced in consequence of the thickening of the hernial sac, from the pressure of a truss. Sometimes the stricture is an inch above the abdominal ring ; at others, when the hernia is very large, at the ring. But when the hernia is very small, the stricture is often two inches above the ring. And it is owing to