ON POISONS. 488 the secretions. It also very much diminishes the virile power and the disposition to sexual intercourse. I have known several instances of its producing this last effect, when it has been taken for a length of time. We read, indeed, that the Turks are in the habit of taking opium for the purpose of increasing the propen- sity to indulge in sexual intercourse ; but, as far as I have had an opportunity of judging of this fact, opium produces quite an opposite effect. A gentleman who had taken opium very freely in consequence of the exhilarating effects it at first produced, told me that for a long time he had suffered no inconvenience from it, and that he always found his pulse increased in quick- ness by its use. In general, the pulse is not increased in quick- ness ; persons who take opium have a quick pulse, which be- comes slow and full under each additional dose, and at this time they feel increased strength and exhilaration. In some cases, it is true, opium produces a quickness of pulse. A student of this hospital, who made a number of experiments to ascertain the ef- fects of opium, found that when he took it in considerable doses, his pulse rose from 75 to 86, and then began to decline till it fell to 65, Opium, when taken in considerable quantities, after a time puts a stop to all the secretions ; the semen is secreted in very small quantities, and in some cases it it is scarcely secreted at all. A married man, who took opium very freely, declared to me, that, though he slept very regularly with his wife, it was rather a matter of ceremony than of practical duty, for he never felt the slightest disposition to sexual intercourse. I knew a man who had during two years taken very large quantities of opium for pains in his bowels, who also declared to me, that he never had the least inclination for amatory indulgence. The nerves are rendered highly irritable by opium, A gentleman, who was in the habit of taking opium, came into my room, where the win- dow was not quite fastened, and the wind whistled a little behind it. After chatting for a short time, he rose in a state of violent agitation, and rushing to the window, exclaimed, “ I can bear it no longer ; this d—d jEolian harp will distract me.” This irri- table state of the nerves, produced by opium, is relieved by a fresh dose; it becomes absolutely necessary to the patient, and the nervousness produced by the opium of yesterday is relieved by the opium of to-day. The largest quantity of opium I have ever known taken, was swallowed by a pupil in this hospital. He sent for half a pint of the tincture of opium, for which he