ON HKKNIA. 271 Ventral Hernia. I Jo not know that there is any thing in this kind of hernia requiring a distinct notice. When it occurs low down, care must be taken, when operating, of the epigastric artery; but of this your anatomical knowledge will put you on your guard. The intestine generally protrudes either through the openings in the lineae semilunares, or linae transversae of the abdomen, which become enlarged. [Sir Astley concluded by observing, that the diseases of the eye came next in order, and that Mr. Green would deliver the lectures on those affections, forming a series of six, after which he should resume the course, on the subject, of Urinary Cal- culi.] s LECTURE XXXII. On the Diseases or the Evi. Gentlemen.—In speaking this evening of the diseases of the eye, I cannot but observe, that there seems no good reason why the treatment of these diseases should be excluded from the gene- ral practice of surgery, for the treatment of these, as of all other diseases, depends on the same principles of cure ; and when dis- eases of the eye occupy exclusively the attention of persons call- ing themselves oculists, they are very apt to be treated in an em- pirical manner. It is desirable, therefore, that surgeons of good general education should direct their attention to this subject. It has been said, indeed, that they have hitherto paid too little at- tention to this part of their professional duties, but I think this reproach is fast wearing away. In the consideration of this sub- ject 1 shall first speak of simple inflammation of the tunica con- junctiva ; then of its modifications, its consequences, and treat- ment. I shall next speak of simple inflammation of the deeper seated tunics, those of the globe of the eye ; the consequences of such inflammation, and the treatment which it may be proper to adopt. Thirdly, I shall describe the diseases of the lens, and particularly that disease of the crystalline lens which terminates in cataract, and the operation which it is necessary to perform for that disease. Lastly, I shall speak of the diseases of the ap- pendages of the eye, their treatment, and the operations requireo for their cure. In this evening’s lecture I shall confine myself to