221 ON HERNIA. It is for this reason that we find hernia so much more frequently on the right than on the left side, because we generally prefer the right side in madring any extraordinary exertion, and the effort made by the muscles is consequently in that direction. The proportion of hernias on the right to those on the left side is about sixty-five to thirty-five. Another frequent cause of hernia is relaxation. Persons advanced in years are often the subjects of herm'a, in consequence of relaxation of body. At the time 1 was endeavouring to learn as many facts as possible connected with this subject, I examined most of the bodies brought to the dissecting-rooms in these hospitals, and found that a large proportion of old persons in this town who were upder the necessity of using bodily exertion, were subjects of hernia. It was in some cases necessary to examine these subjects with considerable care before the hernia could be detected ; but, upon minute examination, in the course of the inguinal canal or thigh, I found that old persons were very generally the subjects of inguinal or femoral, and sometimes of umbilical hernia. Persons who reside in the country, or who do not exert themselves in age, are much less subject to this complaint. It is said that in this town, one person in nine is the subject of hernia; which is favourable to the production of the complaint, from the bad state of the atmosphere, and the relaxation of body produced by It, the proportion of persons affected with hernia is about one in fifteen. Heat may be also considered as a cause of hernia, from its producing relaxation of the abdominal parietes. Thus persons in warm climates, who use much exertion, are very sub- ject to it. The people of France are much more frequently the subjects of hernia than the English. When I first entered the Hotel-Dieu, at Paris, I saw a man carried up the staircase on a sort of bier which they use 'for the sick, with strangulated hernia; and I was afterwards informed that Desault had that day operated, at the Hotel-Dieu, on another case of strangulated hernia. This circumstance might have been accidental; but the fact is, that hernia is much more common in France than in our own country. This may arise from the great activity of that people, and, in some degree, from the warmth of the cli- mate. Persons recovering from fevers, who are much reduced in strength • are extremely liable to hernia from any increased bodily exertion, such as riding on horseback. Certain positions of the body dispose to the production of this complaint; such