435 ON THE OPERATION OF CASTRATION. just alluded, and who insisted on the operation being performed. The degree of suffering to which a patient is exposed from an irritable state of the testicle can scarcely be conceived ; it is for the most part unmanageable by medical treatment, but will, after a great length of time, sometimes wear itself out. Mr. Wardrop, a surgeon of Liverpool, once observed to me, in consulting upon a patient’s case, that he had an idea of cutting down on the spermatic cord, and dividing the nerves which went to the tes- ticle. Whether he ever put his idea in practice, I know not; it was at any rate ingenious, and showed his knowledge of ana- tomy. The Opebation of Castration. This b one of the most simple operations in surgery. You grasp the testicle in your left hand ; begin your incision at the upper part of the abdominal ring, and extend it to the lower ex- tremity of the testicle. You must not leave any part of the scro- tum undivided, because if you make the opening by which you draw out the testicle from the upper part of the scrotum, a bag of matter will form at the lower part, which will prevent the healing of the wound. Lay bare the spermatic cord completely at the ab- dominal ring ; and put a needle and ligature through it and the artery of the vas deferens. Some say this is a work of superero- gation ; but it is not so, because, if you omit it, it often happens that when you divide the cord it is drawn within the abdominal ring by the action of the cremaster, and you cannot get at it with, out slitting up the abdomen. This once happened during the operation of castration, at which Mr. Cline, senior, was present. The surgeon had removed the testicle, and when he came to se- cure the vessels, the spermatic cord could not be found. Mr. Cline brought the spermatic artery into view, by slitting up the abdominal ring. Having divided the cord, you draw it towards you, and detach the cellular membrane behind it: in this con- sists the whole of this very easy operation. The spermatic artery, and the artery of the vas deferens are all that require to be se- cured in the cord ; in the scrotum there are several which require to be secured. I shall in the next lecture proceed to the ampu- tations. 2f2