306 CAUSES OV CATARACT. Cataract, however, arising from these causes, is exceedingly rare ; and by far the greater number ot cases are produced, as it is called, spontaneously, or under circumstances which are too subtle for our cognizance. It has been said that where the eye has been tried a good deal and subject to much exercise and strong light, as in blacksmiths, glass-blowers, ficc., that cataract is produced: this is exceedingly doubtful; and if it is so, there are many cases in which no such cause can be assigned. It is also not unfre- quently congenital, and of course produced from none of the causes mentioned. It also runs through families, and appears to be he- reditary. It has been shown that it may be produced by ex- ternal causes which are obvious, yet it more frequently comes on without any assignable cause. Prognosis.—Of course, by this I mean a prognosis as to the issue of the case by no other means than an operation ; that is, before performing the operation, ascertaining whether service can or cannot be afforded by the operation ; whether the changes which the eye may have undergone from inflammation during the progress of the complaint, or the symptoms, are such as to pieclude the chance of success if an operation were performed, and drstroy all hopes of vision ever being regained. Now there are certain symptoms accompanying this affection, by which you are enabled to form a pretty accurate opinion as to the issue. There are some extremely valuable observations on this part of the subject to be found in Scarpa’s work on the diseases of the eye. The first cir- cumstance which leads you to determine as to the success of the operation is, whether the loss of vision has been gradually super- vening, and has always been in proportion to the opacity of the lens; second, whether the cataract has been accompanied by chronic ophthalmia, or any changes have been produced in the eye by it; if the cataract has been attended by a penetrating pain in any part of the eye, or orbit, or back of the head, which it will be necessary to inquire about; third, whether the motions of the iris are duly performed, in the different variations of the light; if not fear may be entertained of the eye being amaurotic ; fourth, if there is the power of distinguishing between light and dark, or the colour or forms of things, or the shade of passing objects. These CTCumstances should be particularly inquired into ; and if you find the patient has all, or the greater part of them—that is, if the defect of sight has been increasing just in proportion to the in- crease of the opacity of the lens, and the patient has had no pain