30 TREATMENT OF CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. The next secretion we sliould restore, for relieving irritation and inflammation, is that of the skin, for it rarely happens that a haid pulse continues with a free secretion from the surface of the body. The best mode of producing perspiration is, by giving the an- timonial powder with diluents, or Dover’s powder; as this pow- der, however, is apt to increase costiveness, the antimonials are the best, and these should be combined with mercurials. The other secretion, namely that of the kidneys may be restored by giving dilulents, squills, or acetate of potash. Now, gentlemen, be assured it is not by restoring this or that secretion, which will relieve extensive inflammation; for it cannot be effected but by the complete restoration of them all. There are some cases of inflammation where bleeding will not afford relief; this more frequently happens in inflammation of the testicles than in any other part; for these affections you must ad minister Dover’s powder, combined with calomel. There is another mode of subduing inflammation, namely, pro yoking in the stomach a constant nausea, by giving a solution of emetic tartar. I have seen this plan successfully practised on children in croup; calomel should be also occasionally adminis- tered. In inflammation of old people you must bleed with great caution. I was requested to see an elderly lady in the country, having inflamed lungs: I ordered her to be bled— the bleeding was repeated, when her legs began to swell; I therefore prescribed the digitalis and the spir. aelh. nitrici: it reduced the pulse, caused the absorption of the effused fluid in iie legs, and she rapidly recovered. This medicine reduced the 'nflammation, and at the same time increased power. The means, therefore, which are employed to lessen or re- love inflammation are those which restore the secretions by »pening the extremities of the arteries: and thus the heart i» prevented from propelling a quantity of blood with violence to any particular part of the body. LECTURE V. Treatment of Chronic Inflam.mation. The remedies employed in tliis affection must have a slow anr. gradual action on the secretions, you cannot take this disease by