s&Uenburgs Foods A physiologically progressive dietary for infants. \tLEN & HANBURYS have perfected the following series of Foods whereby an infant mav be reared by hand from birth until the age of one year ... No oUrelluch scientific method exists, and these Foods possess the great advanfcps Of beii,“ absolutely pure, sterile, and will not give rise to diarrhoea and digestive troubles, as is often the case when cow's milk is given. In all climates and under all conditions wmthe addition of pure water only, it is now possible to rear an infant m health and safety. The “Allenburys” Milk Food, No. 1 (For use from Birth to Three Months) s a dry powder prepared from pure cow s milk at their iactory in the country. 1 lie ex if casein has been removed and the deficiency in cream and milk sugar made good. A\ urcpil with wafer in the proportions given in the directions for use, a pure sterile liur excess When mixed with wa'ter in the proportions given in the directions for use, a pure sterile human- ised milk obtained. This Food should be used for the first three months of infant life. The “Allenburys” Milk Food, No. 2 (For use from Three to Six Months) To meet the increasing digestive capabilities of the infant No. 2 Food is now substi- tuted It contains, in addition to the humanised milk powder, maltose and phosphates, etc., which are necessary to the building of the frame. There is no undigested starch present, which at this stage the child would he unable to assimilate. These Foods may lie with advantage used in conjunction with the natural feeding, when the milk is scanty or poor. With no other substitute is this possible, as the dis- agreement between the artificial and natural foods usually produces sickness, and the child at once falls off. The “ Lancet” writes: Mere dilution of cow’s milk cannot, therefore, afford a perfect substitute for the milk of the mother. The satisfactory solution of the problem can only be attempted when t lie difference in the amounts of constituents in cow’s and human milk are first taken into account, and then by adopting a process which it is cal- culated will remove these differences, or, at any rate, reduce them to insignificant proportions. Not only does it seem to us that Ibis is exactly what Messrs. .VLI.KN & IliNM RYS have succeeded in doing, but what makes the product still more valuable and convenient is that it is in the form of dry powder and is sterilised. Not less satisfactory is the taste of these preparations which is agreeably sweet and malty. We regard the introduction of both Foods as a progressive step in infant dietaries of considerable importance and value.” The “Allenburys” Malted Food, No. 3 (For use from Six Months and upwards) is not, like the above, a milk food, but a pure and perfect farinaceous food. It is prepared by digesting with liquid extract of malt the starch of fine cooked wheaten flour. The whole of the starch is not, however, digested, in order that the now developing digestive powers of the infant may have something to work upon, and not degenerate from disuse. An entire starch diet as is so often given will overtax the digestive powers and produce wasting and illness. At first it is better in mixing this Food not to employ cow’s milk, but rather the No. 1, which is equivalent to human. Later, about the eighth month, cow’s milk may be used. In travelling, in hot climates, and in all places where the milk supply is of doubtful purity, it is far safer and better to usethe “ALLENBURYS” MILK FOODS. A Pamphlet on Infant Feeding and Management free. SOLE MANUFACTURERS: ALLEN & HANBURYS, LTD., PLOUGH COURT, LOMBARD STREET, LONDON, E.C.