52 Vaginal Ovariectomy. found “ballooned” or will quickly become inflated under movements of the hand. If the solution is thrown out the vagina may collapse and closely invest the hand, in which case more soda solution should be injected when it will again dilate. If the hand is introduced without the knife, with- drawn and then introduced with the knife it will be frequently found that the vagina has collapsed and needs a second fill- ing with the fluid. Patience until dilation is accomplished and promptness to act when attained are prime requisites to success. The knife should be pushed through the vagina quickly making a clean wound the width of the knife blade, when the latter is to be withdrawn and laid aside. It should be remembered that in this “ ballooned ” state, the anterior wall of the vagina is but 2 to 3 mm. thick and easily pene- trated, the completion of the wound being indicated by the sudden disappearance of resistance. Introduce the hand again, insert one finger in the incision, then a second finger, and holding the fingers in the form of a cone push the entire hand into the peritoneal cavity. Immediately below the in- cision and continuous with the tissues involved in the wound lies the uterus with a transverse diameter of 4 to 6 cm. With the palmar surface of the hand downwards, trace the uterus forward a distance of 15 to 18 cm., where it ends abruptly in two cornua of about the same size as the uterus, which are given off horizontally at almost right angles. Trace these to right and left for a distance of 14 or 15 cm., where they end obtusely, and 3 or 4 cm. beyond this in a direct line, resting upon the anterior border of the broad ligament is the dense oval ovary varying in size from 2.5 to 7 cm. in diameter. Withdrawing the hand, carry the ecraseur enclosed within the hand through the vaginal wound to the region of the ovary, release the ecraseur and retrace the parts if necessary, and locating the ovary drop the chain over the ovary from above and either grasp the ovary with the fingers through the chain loop from above and draw it into the loop or passing one or two fingers around beneath the ovary push it up through the loop to be