io Trephining the Maxillary Sinuses. bone increases in thickness toward the zygoma, so that the instrument must be held at an acute angle to the vertical plane of the zygoma. At the point directed the trephine opening lies partly on either side of the partition between the maxillary sinuses so that both cavities are simultane- ously opened. This partition between the two sinuses varies in location with the age of the animal and in disease is fre- quently partially or wholly destroyed, so that in practice the division is frequently ignored. Should the partition not break out with the trephined disc of bone it must be cut away with the •hammer and chisel or with bone gouging forceps. The inferior smaller maxillary sinus communicates through an elongated slit with the inferior turbinated bone, the superior larger maxillary sinus communicates directly with the nasal passage by means of the special naso-sinusal opening, so that the irrigation fluid can here also escape through the nasal passage. Care must be exercised to not injure the superior maxillary division of the tri-facial nerve in its course through the maxiliary sinuses, enclosed in its bony sheath. This bony conduit is, in rare cases, obliterated by pressure (odontomes) leaving the nerve stretched across the cavity as a white, nacrous cord, in- tensely sensitive. This neural conduit divides the maxillary sinuses into inner or median and outer or lateral compart- ments in such a way that trephining alone affords incomplete and unsatisfactory drainage. If a tooth has been repulsed ample drainage may be afforded into the mouth. Otherwise locate by digital exploration the lower border of the median or inner compartment of the sinus and make a second tre- phine opening over that point, insert the index finger of one hand through the trephine opening and rest it against the inner or median wall of the sinus formed by the maxillary turbinated bone, while with the other hand introduce the long curved uterine dressing forceps through the nostril up the nassal passage until-the end of the forceps is felt with the finger, break or cut through the intervening wall and push