Neurectomy of the Median Nerve. 66 the nerve lying between the thumb and index finger of the left hand, stretch the superposed skin and immediately upon the nerve and parallel to it make an incision 5 cm. long, first through the skin, then through the sterno-aponeuro- ticus muscle. Any hemorrhage from the skin, subcutis, or muscle, is checked. The tenacula are inserted in the lips of the wound, and these being drawn apart the white anti- brachial fascia is brought to view and a search is made with the index finger to determine if the nerve lies in the middle of the wound, the fascia is divided immediately over the nerve with the scalpel and an oval piece of it excised with the scissors. If much fatty tissue is found between the layers of fascia it may be teased out carefully with two pairs of forceps and cut away with the scissors. There now comes to view a delicate reddish colored fascia-like mem- brane, the nerve sheath, behind which a blue cord, the brachial vein, is visible, the latter being intimately con- nected with the nerve sheath. The vein lies mostly behind and beneath the nerve and projects out over the anterior border of the same. [The operator needs be careful not to prick this vein with tenacula, as the hemorrhage therefrom is exceedingly annoying during operation.] Still farther forward may be felt the pulsating brachial artery. Incise the nerve sheath carefully and divide it upward and down- ward with the scissors, whereupon the yellowish and dis- tinctly fibrous nerve comes into plain view, or carefully part the nerve from the vein with the handle of the scalpel. Carrj' the aneurism needle beneath the nerve from behind forward and tie the thread around the nerve. The horse usually reacts by powerful struggles. Draw the thread firmly so that the nerve is lifted up and cut it through at the superior angle of the wound by a sudden clip with the scissors [or with the probe pointed scalpel]. After the peri- pheral end of the nerve has been laid bare to the lower angle of the wound, a distance of at least 3 cm., it is ex- cised. Tamponade the wound with dry iodoform gauze