Urethrotomy. 46 grasping of the stone by the forceps is materially aided by means of the left hand introduced in the rectum." One must avoid grasping, along with the stone, the mucous, membrane of the bladder. By careful rotary movement and pushing the forceps backward and forward the operator can deter- mine before the extraction of the stone if the forceps can be withdrawn easily and without much resistance through the neck of the bladder. If the stone is so large that it cannot pass the neck of the bladder, lithotripsy must be performed. This operation requires time and patience, since as a rule it is not possible to encompass the entire calculus with the forceps. That is, the narrowness of the neck of the bladder prevents the sufficiently wide opening of the forceps. The stone must consequently be gradually broken off at its peri- phery and the individual pieces of calculus removed. The character of the surface of the stone has an evident bearing upon the practicability of lithotripsy. When this operation is impossible, the operative dilation of the neck of the blad- der with the lithotome can be undertaken as a last resort. Introduce the instrument closed into the bladder, it is then opened and the neck of the bladder divided upward and laterally as the instrument is withdrawn. In order to pre- vent injury to the rectum it should be emptied before the operation is undertaken. After the removal of the stone, push the catheter again over the ischial arch and unite the lips of the wound in the urethral mucous membrane by means of intestinal sutures. Flush the bladder or urethra by means of a warm 3 per cent, boric acid solution injected through the catheter and then withdraw the latter. Finally, suture the skin wound and insert the drainage tube or iodo- form gauze in the lower angle of the wound. [For student practice on an anaesthetized horse, introduce a stone into the bladder through the urethral wound and practice grasping and removing it with the lithotomy forceps.]