70 Bossi's Double Neurectomy for Spavin. hand from behind in such a manner that the thumb rests above and the forefingers below the leg. Reaching forward with the fingers to the deep flexor of the foot grasp the leg with moderate firmness and draw the hand slowly backward. Immediately behind the perforans muscle and between this and the tendo-Achilles the nerve nearly i cm. in diameter glides away forward from between the fingers with a pal- pable and audible recoil. If the nerve can not be found in this manner the hock should be strongly extended, by which means the nerve is caused to recede from the perforans muscle, so that it can readily be felt near the middle of the groove extending between the tendo Achilles and perforans muscle. At this point the skin is shaved, disinfected and an incision made through it 5 cm. long, parallel to the tendo- Achilles. The white rigidly-stretched crural fascia is now divided in the same direction after which it should be deter- mined by palpation that the nerve lies in the middle of the wound, excise with the scissors an elliptic or oval piece of the fascia or hold apart the fascia along with the lips of the cutaneous wound by means of the tenacula. In poor horses the contour of the nerve covered onlj' by loose connective tissue stand out prominently, in fat horses the nerve is sur- rounded by a large amount of adipose tissue. After this fat and connective tissue has been grasped with forceps it may be excised. The tibial nerve is now in sight, immediately before it lies the plantar vein and on the lateral side (be- neath the nerve as the animal lies) is situated the recurrent tibial artery ; separate these completely from the nerve with the handle of the scalpel, pass the aneurism needle from be- fore backward beneath the nerve and cut it off at the upper and lower angles of the wound removing a section of nerve at least 5 cm. long. Suture the cutaneous wound aud apply a bandage allowing it to remain eight days. Healing by first intention.