Plantar Neurectomy. 61 pedis tendon|a channel-like depression extending from above the fetlock downward over it. In this channel lies the thread- like cord of the nerve 3 nun. thick, which glides forward underneath the fingers with an audible, palpable recoil. The site of operation lies immediately above the fetlock in the posterior third of the metacarpus. Here stretch the skin between the index finger and thumb of the left hand and make a cutaneous incision between the thumb and finger directly over the nerve 3 to 5 cm. long, the lower angle of which lies immediately above the fetlock joint. The bor- ders of the cutaneous wound are held apart with tenacula and by palpation of the white subcutis with the fingers, it is determined if the nerve lies in the middle of the wound. If this be the case the subcutis is grasped with the forceps and carefully dissected by incisions parallel to the course of the nerve and the blood vessels, until the contour of the nerve is clearly brought out. [We prefer extending the in- cision directly upon the nerve without any tearing or pull- ing at the connective tissue by forceps or otherwise]. The nerve is distinguished by its yellowish color, its fine longi- tudinal fibers and its location behind the blood vessels. Immediately above the fetlock joint the median metacarpal or metatarsal nerve divides into an anterior smaller and posterior larger branch. This division must be laid bare in order that the operator should not erroneously cut one branch only. Immediately above this point of division the aneurism needle armed with the thread is passed under the nerve and the thread tied in a single knot. The pressure of the thread upon the nerve causes severe struggling by the animal. The thread being held taut so that the nerve is drawn above the surrounding tissues insert one blade of the scissors or a small probe pointed bistoury beneath the nerve above the ligature and cut the nerve through quickly at the superior angle of the wound. The nerve is then dis- sected free as far as possible downward and both branches excised at the lower angle of the wound so that a section 3