Vaginal Ovariectomy. 51 fection of the hands and arms remove the disinfectants by washing in sterile soda solution, which at the same time renders the hand unctuous and readily introduced through the vulva. Armed with the sterilized scalpel introduce the right hand into the vagina promptly and when the vagina is well “ ballooned ” unsheath the knife and placing it just above the os uteri (I. Fig. 25) parallel to the long axis of the uterus and a few mm. to the right or left of the median line, the blade being held vertical, that is the cutting sur- face parallel to the longitudinal muscular fibers of the vagina, and guarding the possible extent of its introduction with the thumb and fingers, push it directly forward in a straight line with a quick thrust through vaginal mucosa, the muscular walls and the peritoneum until the disappear- ance of resistance indicates that the peritoneum has been penetrated. This is the most critical step in the operation. The vagina of the mare possesses the property of dilating in a remarkable manner like a balloon filled with air, occu- pying at such times practically the entire pelvic cavity, the rectum collapsed, and the roof of the vagina stretched firmly against the sacrum and in immediate contact with the great pelvic vessels, A Fig. 25, while at the sides and below the vaginal walls are generally in immediate contact with the bony walls of the pelvis. The roof of the vagina, when at rest, is in contact with the floor of the rectum and attached thereto by connective tissue until within 6 to 8 cm. of the os uteri where the two organs are separated by a peritoneal duplicature which constitutes the operative area. This operative area, parallel to the rectum when the vagina is at rest becomes perpendicular to it when “ ballooned ” so that the operator needs to make his incision directly forward through a tense, thin, perpendicular wall like a drum head. There is in this state no operative area above whatever and an upward incision wounds the rectum and perhaps the posterior aorta or one of the iliac arteries. If the hand is introduced immediately after the injection of the sterile saline solution the vagina will generally be