6 Repulsion of Teeth. ing a metallic probe through the fistula against the diseased fang while one hand is inserted in the mouth and determines the location of the probe. In trephining be careful to avoid injuring adjoining teeth. Control homorrhage completely after removal of the osseous disc and then enlarge the open- ing with forceps, gouge or chisel, until the entire width of the tooth fang is laid bare. Insert a sharp scalpel at the oral side of the trephine opening between the periosteum and superposed soft tissues and with the left hand in the mouth to act as a guide, push the scalpel along the perios- teum until it enters the mouth and extend this incision backward and forward until the soft tissues are completely detached from the alveolar wall over the entire area of the affected tooth. With a light, narrow bone chisel, cut away the entire external bony plate of the alveolus, the full width of the tooth from the lower or oral margin of the trephine wound into the oral cavity. The chisel is to be so held that the outer edge is inclined from the tooth, otherwise the im- pact of the chisel may loosen the alveolar wall from the ad- joining tooth. Drive the chisel for a short distance alter- nately on each side and thus avoid the splitting off of large sections of bone which might extend to the neighboring alveoli. With the gouge and chisel remove all remnants of bone covering the external or lateral side of the tooth. The soft tissues over the region are left undisturbed except the disc removed for trephining. When the tooth is bared the punch may be placed against the end of the fang and the tooth driven by a few firm, quick blows into the mouth where it is grasped by forceps or the hand and withdrawn. If this be impracticable or unsafe, comminute the tooth or tumor to the desired degree with the heavy chisel and ham- mer, and remove the pieces with gouge or forceps. Be careful to remove all fragments. Cleanse and disinfect the alveolus and tamponade with iodoform gauze or cotton, and dress daily. In chronic fistula of an alveolus after removal of a tooth by other means, remove the external bony plate in the manner described, as if for removal of the tooth.