78 Resection of the Flexor Pedis Tendon. a transverse incision through the base of the frog 2 to 3 cm. from the balls through the horny frog, the sensitive frog, and the fatty cushion down to the flexor pedis tendon. Follow this by two curved incisions extending forward and inward in an oblique direction corresponding to the semi- lunar crest of the os pedis, the line of incision being about *4 cm. outward from the lateral groove of the frog and uniting at the apex of the frog. This triangular piece of frog which has been isolated by the incision is now grasped with the pincers and dissected away. As a general rule the operator finds that he has not yet reached the flexor pedis tendon but only the fatty cushion which covers the latter. The remnants of the fatty frog should be removed with the double-edged sage knife by means of a horizontal incision, and there is then seen the greenish or yellowish colored necrotic flexor pedis tendon which may at times be covered with reddish colored granulations. Should the operation be indicated on account of a suppurative pododermatitis the bars on the affected side must be excised along with the other portions. The position and extent of the navicular bone can be determined by feeling through the flexor tendon. A transverse incision is then made over the middle of the navicular bone through the flexor pedis tendon to the bene, the lower end of the tendon is grasped with the tenaculum forceps and lifted up from the navicular bone with the aid of two lateral curved incisions. Between the inferior border of the navicular bone and the semilunar crest of the os pedis stretches the capsular ligament of the inferior articulation of the navicular bone and os pedis reinforced by dense fibrous bands. The flexor pedis tendon is united to this by a few bundles of fibres. Dissect the tendon care- fully away from the capsular ligament and beyond from the semilunar crest of the os pedis. If necrotic or discolored pieces of the fatty cushion or the tendon still remain, remove these with scissors, scalpel or curette. With the latter curette the roughened cartilage of the navicular bone and