20 Opening of the Guttural Pouches. 2. CJiabert's method. Secure the horse in the lateral re- cumbent position, remove the hair and disinfect the skin beneath the wing of the atlas. Make an incision about i cm. in front of the lower half of the wing of the atlas and parallel to it, about 6 cm. long extending through the skin and skin muscle down to the parotid gland. The incision is facilitated by rendering the skin tense with the left hand and care is to be taken not to wound the auricular nerve which passes directly along the atlas. Then draw back- ward the posterior border of the wound and separate with blunt instruments the posterior border of the parotid gland from the atlas to which it is bound by loose connective tissue and draw the parotid gland forward with tenacula. At the bottom of the opening thus formed there is seen the stylo-maxillaris (digastricus) muscle lying against the median side of the parotid gland covered only by the aponeurosis of the mastoido-humeralis muscle. With the handle of the scalpel inclined toward the wing of the atlas penetrate in the direction of their fibers the aponeu- rotic expansion of the mastoido-humeralis muscle and the sterno maxillaris muscle. The puncture is thus located be- tween the ninth and tenth nerves on one side and the in- ternal carotid on the other. Since the wall of the guttural pouch rests against the median side of the digastricus mus- cle the pouch is opened by this incision. The operator in- serts an index finger along the blade of the knife at first and after withdrawal of the knife the other index finger also in the punctured wound and by forcibly parting these dilates it. The abnormal contents are then removed by means of forceps, curetting and irrigation. In order to pre- vent adhesion of the firmly stretched stylo-maxillaris mus- cle, introduce a strong drainage tube into the pouch and fix it to the external borders of the wound by a suture. 3. Dieterich's method. This combines the operations under 1 and 2, with the difference that the superior opening of the pouch is made immediately behind the stylo-maxillaris.