30 Venesection. fingers of the left hand compress the jugular vein at a point far enough below the shaved part that the fleam blade rests upon it. In fleshy necked animals the course of the vein may be clearly made out by repeated distension and relaxa- tion of the vein. It is well to be careful that the point of the fleam blade is not allowed to prick the skin prematurely as it causes restlessness of the animal ; and that the fleam blade is held perpendicular and parallel to the axis of the vein. The most elevated point of the distended vein should be struck by the knife in such a way that the skin, subcu- taneous muscle and jugular wall are penetrated parallel to the axis of the vein. Drive the fleam blade into the vein by a short, sharp blow with the extended right hand or a light wooden stick. The extension on the fleam blade prevents its being driven too deeply. The size of the blade to be used depends upon the thickness of the skin, etc. If the vein is struck, dark red blood escapes from the wound in a large stream. Lay the instrument aside with the right hand, while the fingers of the left hand continue the com- pression of the vein without interruption, in order to prevent aspiration of air into the vein, and also that the lips of the skin and vein wounds shall not become overlapped by which the escape of blood would be impeded. The escape of blood may be favored by inducing masticatory movements by the horse. The amount of blood to be withdrawn varies between three and four liters, according to the size of the animal and the object to be attained. The closure of the fleam wound is brought about either by an interrupted suture or a pin suture. For this purpose the compressing fingers of the left hand are relieved by the thumb of the right, the wound of the skin is grasped by the left index finger and thumb, the finger above, the thumb below, and the pin is stuck perpendicularly through the middle of the skin wound, a few mm. from the borders of the wound. Now that both hands are released a noose of silk thread pre- viously prepared is applied over the pin and the loop closed