•23 thing more than a thin layer, which can be perceived only when you raise it up with the point of a fine instrument from the muscular fibres it covers, and between which it was interposed, in the shape of a layer gQ thin as to be scarcely perceptible. In fact, it seems to exist as a kind of glutinous medium, in which all the parts of the body are im- bedded and connected. In many places, it evidently forms cells: such are those which contain the fat, the marrow, and the serous fluid moistening the cellular substance generally. This is the universal element of the Animal kingdom : it enters into the composition of all Animals in a similar manner; and a substance like it in mechanical ar- rangement, constitutes the woof, and fulfils similar purposes in all Ve- getables. Hence it is, as we have stated, a striking and distinguishing feature of the Organized World. You will find, that on the one hand, it serves to includeand connect all the Organs of the body; and on the other, thatitis employed to compose their substance. Indeed, the greaternum- ber of the Organs of the body are made up chiefly of cellular substance more or less modified; and none, in my opinion, are entirely without it: so that if it were possible to remove every particle of the body, ex- cept the cellular substance, and to leave this undisturbed, it would re- present the body's mould with innumerable cells, tubes, and vacuities; in short, a sort of sponge, of the same form as the body, with spaces, cells, or cavities, in which every other part, solid or fluid, is set and contained. Its most striking properties are elasticity, extensibility, and hygrometricity. The first enables parts to move and glide upon each other without laceration, as when you pinch up a fold of skin ; and, certainly, the faculty it gives parts to accommodate themselves to the multifarious motions or changes of position they are constantly undergoing, is one of its most remarkable functions. From its hygro- metricity it sucks up fluids like a sponge, and allows them to pass into it by imbition. This Universal Element of animals appears to be formed, almost entirely of Gelatine; which is itself composed of Oxygen 27-207; Hydrogen 7-914; Carbon 47-881; Nitrogen 10-998; or according to Mr. Chevreul, who considers Gelatine to be a mere modification of Albumen, of Oxygen 23-872; Hydrogen 7-540; Carbon 52-883; Nitrogen 15-705. From the arrangement of this substance, it is often called Cellular Tissue; and the term tissue is often extended to the two other simple, solid materials: but, ns.it is also used to denote the substance of a System of Organs, or of a Com-