>21 because we have no means of removing or estimating the precise quan- tity of the former, which may be removed without materially altering the latter ; and, during life, the solid parts are constantly changing into fluid ones, and the fluid parts into solids. Very frequently they are only different states of the same parts, which are constantly changing from one state to the other. What is solid one instant may be fluid the next; and what is fluid one instant may become solid the next: as the fibrinous globules now opposite my finger, in the vessel of this living animal, in a liquid state, may become a solid part of one of its muscles, without any material change in its chemical properties, in a shorter time than it takes to announce the fact. Solids and Fluids are, then, rather relative than absolute terms, when we speak of the parts or Anatomical constituents of the body, as they exist during life or shortly after death. As I stated just now, the solid parts (that is, the Solids imbibing the quantity of fluid necessary for them) are named the Organs. In taking the body to pieces, we find these parts to be numerous Bones, Muscles, Membranes, Nerves, &c. These are the Organs. The Ana- tomist has to study each Bone, each Muscle, and each of all other Organs in particular ; but, as each of them has certain general cha- racters which belong to all Organs of the same kind, it has been found advantageous to study them also in sets or classes, which are techni- cally called Systems of Organs. Thus, as each Muscle presents certain Characters common to all Muscles, these have been united and studied together as the Muscu- lar System: and, the same has been done for all other Organs suffi- ciently similar to be united in a group. All that relates to Organs, thus considered, has been designated General Anatomy. Bichat, who was the greatest if not the first General Anatomist, made out no less than twenty-one Systems ; each System being an assemblage of similar Organs, or Organs of the same kind : and well has his admir- able Treatise shown the advantage of studying systems as well as each Organ in particular. Since his time, their number has been reduced nearly one half; because, he sometimes divided into two, a system which had better have been left undivided ; the two not being suffici- ently different to constitute separate systems. Similarities have been discovered which he did not perceive ; and it does not detract from