14 of animal substances easily produces it; so that it can scarcely be said to be peculiar to either. Acids composed of the four elements, Oxygen, Hydrogen, Nitro- gen, and Carbon, as the Amuic and Uric, are strictly confined to the Animal kingdom. But, these four elements constitute neutral princi- ples in both this and the Vegetable world: in the former, such are Fibrine, Albumen, Gelatine; and in the latter, Gluten, Indigo, &c. This fact, I believe, we owe to Mr. Chevreul. Thus, Gentlemen, you perceive, upon the whole, the prevalence of Nitrogen to be, perhaps, the most distinguishing feature in the com- position of animals ; and, as, also, quaternary combinations, or im- mediate principles composed of four ultimate elements, are far more frequent in them than in Vegetables, (in which the immediate prin- ciples are almost always ternary or composed of only three,) decompo- sition takes place in them with proportionately greater promptness and rapidity : the tendency in substances to a separation of their ele- ments, being in general, in proportion to the number of these they contain. We come now to the intimate structure, or mechanical disposition of the materials which have been described. In animals, generally, you will find they are arranged in one or more tissues, constituting by certain modifications, systems, or sets of parts, with like general characters, and among other organs, complete tubes in which the fluids circulate. This is not the case with vegetables generally, although there may be some appearance of rudimentary tissues in a few of them: as, on the other hand, in some animals, the homogeneity of their substance is such, that neither these nor vessels can be dis- cerned. With regard to general form, you will observe that animals are almost universally disposed in two symmetrical halves. Look at any of the animals on the table, at this Lobster for instance, and see how perfectly symmetrical are its two lateral halves; how exactly the parts on the right side resemble those on the left, supposing it to be divided on the median line. Compare this disposition with any plant you please, and the contrast will be striking. In the Vegetable Kingdom, the general form is radiating or ramifying. Still, there is an approximation to this in some inferior animals, in the star fish, for example : and, as some parts of Vegetables are decidedly symmetrical.