15 the point of union between the stem and the roots of plants, (collet) has been compared to the median line of animals; but, it certainly does not divide them into two exactly similar halves. The singleness or indivi- duality of Animals accords with their form, and serves to distinguish them; for, it is only at the bottom of the scale, that we find them at all like a vast portion of vegetables, which are compound, a certain mem- ber of individuals being decidedly continuous. The next character of Animals, on which I desire more particularly to fix your attention, is their mode of nourishment. In considering it, you will observe a striking and beautiful contrast between the two kingdoms; and in each, an exact and admirable conformity be- tween the Beings and their destiny ; between the material structure and the. functions, which are as closely linked as cause and effect can be. Vegetables absorb their nutriment by an external. Animals by an internal surface : absorption is performed by the roots and leaves in the one case, by the alimentary canal in the other. Both may be said to have two absorbing surfaces. In Plants, the leaves which float in the air represent one ; the roots sunk in the earth, the other ; and these and their vessels meet end to end at the collet. In Animals, the external skin constitutes one surface; its continuation or prolongation into their centre, in the form of an internal reservoir, the other; and their place of meeting is the mouth or the point where one begins to be turned or doubled into the other. Hence, the distinguishing privilege possessed by Animals of moving from place to place; since they can contain and carry with them their food : while vegetables, com- pelled to keep their two absorbing surfaces in a fixed position, one in the earth the other in the air, are of necessity stationary beings. Agreeably to this disposition, we find, that in animals, the food, be- fore it affords nutriment, is acted upon by the internal skin or sto- mach; that nutriment is therein extracted from it, after a preparatory process termed digestion. In Vegetables, on the contrary, there is no such preparation of the food; immediate nutriment being directly taken in from the earth and the air. Probably, it circulates after- wards, or at any rate begins to circulate, by the same kind of resident force, in both; although, in the latter, it lias been termed capillarity, and in the former irritability : and, assimilation, or the process by which the new matter becomes changed into the substance of the