26 of the fluids and contain them all; so that if you remove all the latter by artificial means, the former cease to be what we have described them, and become quite another thing, except that they may retain their cha- racteristic chemical element: the Cellular Substance will still be Gela- tine ; the dried muscular fibre will still be fibrine; and the Nervous Mat- ter may still preserve some of its characters: but they will cease to be any thing like what we find them constituting the body. I repeat, however, most of the fluids may be removed in a certain quantity, without materially interfering with the solids: only, recollect, that when we speak of the fluids considered apart, we do not mean all that can be obtained or extracted from it in a fluid state; but,merely, that part of what exists in the body in this state, which may be removed without material alteration of the solids. The fluids may be divided into those which are chiefly concerned in nourishing the body ; and those which are secreted to serve some purpose not immediately nutritive. The first are few in number, and form the general circulating fluid; and, therefore, deserve more to be considered as elements or constituent parts of the body than the others; which are very numerous, less permanent, local, some of them serving local purposes, and some being mere excretions, destined to be ex- pelled chiefly for the purpose of depuration. Still, even these are parts of the body, at the time of formation, and until the moment they are separated from it. The first class comprises the blood ; the chyle ; the lymph ; and the atmospheric air entering the lungs. The second class comprises the fluids secreted in different parts of the body; such as the tears, saliva, milk, bile, &c. All the fluids will be described to you in regular order as we proceed in the course: but, I should mention here, that there is some difference of opinion, among Anatomists, as to those parts which ought really to be considered as fluids; and that we are not exactly agreed about the number of those in a gaseous state. Blainville considers that the Nervous Matter, which we have described as one of the three primary Anatomical solids, is a fluid which he calls Neurine; and that it assumes a solid form only from its combination with the Cellular Substance, as I mentioned. He also considers some parts of the body as Semi-liquids; namely, the fat, the bulbs of the teeth and hair, and, with some doubt, the matter of the corpus luteum. You see, now. Gentlemen, what are the Anatomical Elements which