13 form the foundation of his as well as of every other department of the Science of Organization. We beoin, as before, with the ultimate chemical elements. Of those which may be called essential, (in contradistinction to those which are evidently subordinate and more or less adventitious and acci- dental, and therefore less characteristic of Organized Beings,) we find none exclusively confined to one or other kingdom; still. Nitrogen is the great prevalent and distinguishing element of Animals, and Car- bon that of Vegetables. Of the adventitious elements, we observe Phosphorus to be very nearly confined to Animals ; and Lime to be extremely prevalent in them, forming chiefly their most solid parts, as Carbon does those of Vegetables: whilst the Alkalis, Soda, Potash, and Ammonia, and two or three of the metals, such as Iron and Manganese, are common to both. A mmonia, however, is of course, by far, most prevalent in Animals. The next step leads us to the immediate or compound elements, which afford some marked characters. Of those composed of three ultimate elements, which are Acids, (Oxygen being in excess) there are but three common to Vegetables and Animals,—the Acetic, the Oxalic and the Delphinic; and but three which exist in the Animal Kingdom and they are derived from fat substances—the Sebaic, Oleic, and Margaric : all the rest of the compound elements or acids of this kind belong to the Vegetable kingdom. To the latter belong all those of the compound elements called Neutral Substances, composed of three ultimate elements, Oxygen, Hydrogen, and Carbon, and in which the two first are in the propor- tion to form water, such are Gum, Sugar, &c.; whilst, similar sub- stances (Neutral) in the Animal kingdom, contain one more element, and that element is Nitrogen. The numerous alkalis composed of the same three ultimate elements, such as Morphine, Quinine, are found only in the Vegetable Kingdom; and, therefore, constitute one of its features. If we go to the next kind of immediate principles, those in which Hydrogen is in excess, we discover something like analogy : Camphor and certain Vegetable Oils and Balsams resemble the Fat and Oils of Animals. The sole immediate principle composed of the three elements, Hydrogen, Nitrogen, and Carbon, which is acid, (the Prussic) exists ready formed only in vegetables; but, the decomposition