22 the merit of this great man, that he formed more distinct groups or Systems than there really are. You understand, then, that all the Bones constitute the Osseous System, all the Muscles the Muscular System, all the Serous Mem- branes the Serous System, and so on ; and, that into these Systems or sets of Organs the body is immediately resolvable: or, synthetically speaking; put together, in their places, these sets of Organs, and you form the Human Body. Now, Gentlemen, pursue the Analysis a little farther, and ask what these Systems are composed of P The answer will astonish you. Only three distinct, solid, Anatomical Materials compose the whole of them. In the most complex of them you will find employed no more than these three ; and, in the most simple, only one. To view the body in its complex machinery, to examine the wonderful machine in its vast and varied actions, it seems impossible that it should be made of only three solid materials; but so it is : the cellular substance, the muscular fibre, the nervous matter; these three simple elements compose the multifarious Organs, make up every solid part of the body. When they are called Elements, it is neces- sary to distinguish them from the Chemical Elements by the epithet Anatomical. By Chemical Elements, we understand the substances into which the body may be resolved by Chemical analysis; and by Anatomical Elements, the minutest and latest distinct parts into which it may be decomposed by mechanical dissection. Still, it is but just, to say, that, in order to reduce it to these last, we are often obliged to employ something like chemical means. The Chemical Elements, as you know, are either immediate, such as Fibrine Albumen, &c., which we often call immediate principles, because the body is revolvable into them by very simple and direct chemical processes; or ultimate, such as Oxygen, Hydrogen, &c., which result from an analysis carried to the farthest possible extent. The three Anatomical Elements will be particularly described in the succeeding lectures, still I ought here to give you an idea of them. The cellular substance, which alone forms so many Organs, is, from its very simplicity, difficult to describe. Nothing gives so good an idea of it as ocular inspection. As I separate two bundles of fibres in this muscle, you perceive a kind of web which becomes apparent and forms itself into cells, as they are gradually drawn asunder, and then entirely gives way; leaving scarcely any thing apparent, or no-