19 branches) of Science as possible; since we see how all are more or less essential to each, and each to all; and that the more of them the human mind can fairly grasp, the better must it understand each. We should examine the human body, almost in the same manner, the engineer examines a machine he wishes to become perfectly ac- quainted with. He must know its concurring parts (organs or in- struments;) their form; relation; mode of connexion; the materials of these and their properties; the action of each part; the changes to which it may be liable; the influences it may be subject to from with- out or within. He, therefore, besides taking it to pieces, observes it with or without experiment, in or out of action natural and unnatu- ral. He does more than can be accomplished for the living machine ; he puts it together again : that is, he proceeds synthetically as well as analytically. We cannot do this, but, still, we can, in some respects, proceed synthetically from certain data taken apriori, as I shall pre- sently shew. In proceeding analytically, we cannot do better than adopt the rules for examining organs laid down by Beclard in his Anatomie Generate. The Anatomist has to consider in each :—lstly- Its general form; 2ndJy. its general situation, and relative position with regard to other parts; 3rdly, its direction; 4thly. its general and relative volume; othly. its physical state as regards density, cohesion, elasticity, colour, transparency; 6thly. its physical composition and texture, or the Ar- rangement of its Constituents; 7thly. its Chemical properties and composition; 8thly. the Fluids it contains; 9thly. The properties it possesses during life ; lOthly. its action during life, and the relation and connection of this action with the actions of other organs; llthly. the varieties it presents with respect to age, sex, race, and the individual; 12thly. its Morbid states; 13thly. its post-mortem changes and phenomena. This, Gentlemen is a complete Table of the Interrogatories to which we shall have to subject all the Organs of the Body. What these Organs are ; and how they may be arranged or classed, is the next point, to which I now desire to call your atten- tion. The name of Organ may be given to any distinct part of the body, however simple, or however complex, provided it be in a solid state. Thus, the muscular fibre, which is one of the three simple solids into which all the others are resolvable, may be considered as the Organ of motion generally ; just, as we term the lungs, which arc very com-