5 Organization, which is itself a larger branch of the great tree of Human Knowledge. The first of these divisions is by far less arbitrary than any of the rest; because it has something of a foundation in nature. Organized Bodies are either Vegetable or Animal: and the primary division of the Science of Organization separates it into the Anatomy of the Vegetable, and the Anatomy of the Animal kingdom. (Phytologia and Zoologia). Subdivisions of a similar kind, but more artificial, are understood, when we limit our investigations to any particular class or species of animals: such are, the Anatomy of the Mammalia; the Anatomy of Man; the Anatomy of the Horse; each considered separately. Of a secondary and still more arbitrary kind are the sections made with re- ference to some object more particularly sought: as when we examine an animal or any class of animals for some special purpose. Thus, we have: its General Anatomy, which embraces the materials and sets of organs, more especially in reference to every thing they present ge- nerally ; its Special Anatomy, which considers every individual organ ; its Topographical or Surgical Anatomy, to which belongs the relative position of parts in the different regions of the body ; its Pathological or Morbid Anatomy, which comprises all its morbid or anomalous changes. When the body of Man is known under all these aspects, and in different races, its Anatomy (Anthropotomy) is tolerably com- plete. The laws of its life, or of the actions of its different parts, con- stitute Human Physiology ; which ought, as much as possible, to be studied with it. The aberrations of these actions, with the correspond- ing changes in the state of the organs, belong to the Healing Art; to the practice of which most of the branches of the Science of Organiza- tion are absolutely necessary, and all knowledge may be made avail- able. Comparative Anatomy is that, in whieh the structure of the whole Animal kingdom is examined comparatively ; each animal being- compared to the rest. This is the highest and most extensive part of the Science of Organization ; because it supposes a knowledge of all animals; and, so vast is it, that no one, that I am aware, has yet at- tempted to grasp at complete Comparative Anatomy: 1 mean, to compre- hend in one work the Comparative Anatomy of all animals, in reference to the above-mentioned different points of view, under which the Hu- man Body is studied. Indeed, Human Anatomy has not yet been pre- sented exactly in so complete a form as it might be; and until that is