fi done, we can hardly expect it, for a work embracing the whole Animal kingdom. Blainville, however, has given a zoological classification, under which all the parts of it might be arranged, so as to make it complete; and he has furnished a vast deal of the materials for such a work. He divides the Science of animals, (or what I should term the complete Anatomy of animals;) that is, Zoology, or the Science of Organization limited to the animal kingdom, into:—Zooclassia, which has for its object the classing and naming of animals after their ge- neral external form, which, being known to represent the entire or- ganism, admits of their arrangement in natural groups, and in such an order, that it gives, at once, the place each occupies in the Animal scale. Zootomia, to which belong the structure and composition of animals analysed by dissection ; and which includes all that we com- monly call Anatomy, when we specify it as the Anatomy of any par- ticular animal or animals considered or not under any particular point of view, or as Comparative Anatomy, meaning a comparative examination of the structure of all animals. To be complete under this classification, I apprehend Zootomia must be General, Special and Topographical. Zoobiologia, which comprises the actions or functions of the different organs, and is commonly termed Physi- ology. Zooethica, or that branch of the Science in which the habits and destiny of animals are considered, and which we usually call Natural History. Zooiatria, which comprehends the anomalous alterations or morbid changes to which the different organs are liable ; the manifestations of these changes in corresponding functional devia- tions, and the means of obviating them. This constitutes the Healing Art, and is evidently founded on, or results from all the other branches. Finally, he has gone one step further, perhaps too far, in ranging under the Science of Organization what he would call Zoonomia, or the art of managing and governing animals, so as to obtain from them the greatest possible amount of good. I say too far; because this would really include every branch of Human Knowledge. It is not our province to consider Man under all the different as- pects this classification indicates. I point them out, merely to show the nature and extent of the Science, and the uninterrupted continuity of all its branches ; and, moreover, that you may know which are ab- solutely required for the Medical Art, and yet perceive how useful for its exercise are those which are generally considered less indispensable.