LECTURE. Gentlemen, Standing in the place occupied for so many years, and with so much usefulness to Society, by the late Mr. Brookes; and seeing before me a great number of those whom he instructed, and to whom much of his knowledge and celebrity have descended, I feel a weight of responsibility which would prevent my undertaking the duties of his successor, but for your kind assurances of support. This Museum once contained so many precious things—specimens so numerous and of such value—-that it seems impossible they could have been collected and preserved by one man. At that time, the eulogy of Brookes had been easy: it was only to say, in the words of the epitaph inscribed in St. Paul’s to the memory of its great archi- tect—“Do you seek his monument, look around you.” These treasures, the result of unprecedented labor, have been scattered. Circum- stances compelled him, who spent all his fortune and almost all his life in their collection, to dispose of them, in a manner and at a time which cannot be recollected without deep regret. Still he, who in industry in his profession, was second to none, shall live honorably in the remembrance of Posterity; and the name of Brookes will be inscribed in the annals of Science with those of Buffon and Hunter. With this conviction, at once consolatory and encouraging; and with the consciousness that the successful cultivation of Anatomy is the best tribute we can pay to the memory of Brookes, I proceed to in- troduce this Science to your study. The first thing to be done in the study of any subject, is to define it; to mark its limits as correctly as possible : so that it may be com- plete, and yet, as far as is practicable, unmixed with other matters. What is Anatomy P The term, in its common acceptation, desig- nates, at once, either the physical structure and composition of Man; or, the knowledge of that structure; or, one of the means of accjuiring such knowledge : and, to the last, which is often called dissection, its ety- mology makes it most applicable ; because it is derived from ava, and TtfXVfO. We have examples of these different significations when we say: a