29 constituents they see enter an organ; and because our eyes do not permit us to trace tlieir ultimate union with each other, declare, that where they cease to be able to distinguish them as distinct parts, there must exist something more. Now, when we mix Tartaric Acid with Carbonate of Soda, and that a tartrate of Soda is formed, we cannot see how they unite or distinguish them when united ; yet, we are satisfied that its component parts are Tartaric Acid and Soda, and nothing more. So ought we to be with the component parts we see enter a complex organ. It is just as wise to admit an additional parenchyma in the one case as the other. Let this word, then, never indicate any thing more than the substance of an organ in its collec- tive composition. It remains for me to say a few words on the plan my able colleague, (Mr. Malyn) and I intend to adopt in teaching Anatomy. We think that its study and acquisition may be greatly facilitated, by making the gene- ral notions of function precede the dissection of parts: so that the mind may be excited by constant expectation and enquiry, as you proceed in the mechanical analysis. We are convinced, that when a student asks himself what he shall find; what ought to exist to fulfil certain uses generally known and taken a priori; he will acquire the greatest possible amount of knowledge in the least possible time : and what is equally important, it will be so arranged in his mind, that he can call it forth whenever necessary. The idea of function will be so associated with all the mechanical structure necessary for its exercise, that the details of the latter will present themselves in a regular train. He will then be able to apply in his examinations, in his studies, and in his practice, positive knowledge by a sure and ready method ; and will scorn to rely on those unconnected appeals to the memory, which are the indications of a superficial man, and which, in the hour of trial, are as useless as they are derogatory. What organ shall we take to illustrate my meaning P A Gentleman mentions the Eye. Well, every body knows that we see by means of the Eye, and that it is so constituted as to receive the images of objects by what we call Light. Sensation and Light, then, are the data which immediately call up all that relates to the structure of the Eye. In the first place, we must have the part to receive the impressions of images; this, the most essential of all, is the Retina; and its form will, of course, be such as to admit of its receiving the greatest possible