'SUGGS “ WESTMINSTER” GAS KITCHENER. SIMPLE. EASY TO USE. SUBSTANTIALLY MADE. DURABLE. THE i imiv/cdcitv LIBRARY )S LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: e J ) awKK/ h iwc oking by- narkFOUR COLD MEDALS AND ONE SILVER MEOAL For Sugg’s Gas Kitcheners, Grillers, and Hot Plates. “SUGG'S GAS STOVES can do everything except talk.” Dally Telegraph, May, 1SSS, WILLIAM SUGG & GO., LIMITED, Are now prepared to furnish Designs and Estimates for completely fitting with Gas and other apparatus, in the most modern and approved methods, the KITCHENS of Mansions, Clubs, Hotels, Public Institutions, Colleges and Schools, Hospitals and Infirmaries, &c. Apparatus has recently been supplied to the West- minster Town Hall, Athenceum Club, Thatched House Club, Reform Club, South Kensington Museum, &c. Ac, APPARATUS OP HIGHEST QUALITY ONLY. Improved Grillers, Hot Plates, Cutting-up Tables, &c- Cooking by Gas is cleaner, better, and cheaper than any other method. THE VENTILATION OF KITCHENS BY SUGG’S PATENT CONTINUOUS UP-DRAUCHT COWL. OVEN THERMOMETERS. PURE NICKEL COOKING UTENSILS. Sugg’s Improved Coffee Urn. Patent Gas Coffee Roasters. Architects and Committees are requested to rvrite to VINCENT WORKS, WESTMINSTER; 1 and 3, GRAND HOTEL BUILDINGS, CHARING CROSS; or 33, BOLD STREET, LIVERPOOL. BGOLD MEDAL, PARIS, 1889. SILVER MEjD-A-Ij, CKYSTA-L PALACE, 18S3. SUGG’S PATENT “BOILING STREAM THERMA” GIVES A HOT BATH IN TEN MINUTES, Or BOILING WATER INSTANTLY. Boiling STREAM THERMO /HARCOURT’SM ISUCG’S PATENTa directions! FOK USE '.. [!l EASILY CLEANED UNDER PERFECT CONTROL SAFE. ECONOMICAL. X£> WATER INLET. GAS INLET. The Water is heated by luminous white flames, which are ODOURLESS, CANNOT produce any poisonous gas, and are THEREFORE AS SAFE TO USE AS AN ORDINARY GASLIGHT. FOR SUMMER USE IT IS INVALUABLE. TT. S. A- Co. ■undertake the complete outfit of Hath Iiooins on the latest sani- tary principles, l>y certi- ficated Plumbers. Prices and all particulars of WILLIAM SUGG & Co., Limited, Vincent Works, Westminster; i and 2, Grand Hotel Buildings, Charing Cross; 33, Bold Street, Liverpool; Crystal Palace, Sydenham ; and 409, Keizersgracht, Amsterdam. CPalace, Sydenham ; 33, Bold St., Liverpool; and 409, Keizersgracht, Amsterdam. 45 HIGHEST AWARDS, including 12 GOLD MEDALS, For Sugg’s various Manufactures since 1862. SUGG’S PATENT GAS PRESSURE GOVERNORS, For automatically regulating the flow of Gas to the Lights in the Kitcheners and Heating Apparatus. SUGG’S PATENT MERCURIAL] ^GOVERNOR. This is also made in a double form, to regulate at the same time a low pressure for the Lights and a higher pressure for Gas Stoves, Gas Engines, &c. SUGG’S PATENT DIAPHRAGM GOVERNOR. A variety of Governors are also made specially adapted to regulate the supply to Kitcheners. The best results can only be obtained at a suitable pressure, and Sugg’s Governors make this possible at all times. Prices and all particulars on application to WILLIAM SUGG & CO., Ltd., Vincent Works, Westminster; i and 2, Grand Hotel Buildings, Charing Cross; Crystal45 HIGHEST AWARDS, including 12 GOLD MEDALS, For Sugg’s Manufactures since 1862. SUGG'S patent gas BURNERS ARE THE BEST FOR. KITCHEN, DINING & DRAWING ROOM LIGHTS. BRILLIANT, WHITE, SILENT LIGHT. Sugg’s Patent "CHRISTIANA ” Governor Burners, for the Drawing Room, with Hand-painted Globes, in a great number of designs. Sugg’s Patent Table-Top Flat-Flame Governor Burners, for open lights in Kitchens, Lavatories, Offices, Cellars, Stables, &c., prevent waste and flaring. Soon save their cost. SUGG'S PATENT "ALEXANDRA" GOVERNOR BURNER AND GLOBE. FOR KITCHENS, PASSAGES,! BEDROOMS, ETC. Sugg’s New Patent "JAVA” LAMPS, for Halls, Vestibules, Boudoirs, &c. Sugg's Patent “ CROMARTIE ” Inverted Flame LAMPS, in a variety of designs, for Dining, Drawing, and Billiard Rooms. SUGG'S PATENT "LONDON” ARGAND GOVERNOR BURNER, ORNAMENTAL OR PLAIN, FOR DINING ROOM LIGHTS, ETC. Prices and all particulars from the Manufacturers, WILLIAM SUGG & Co., Limited, Vincent Works, Westminster; i and 2, Grand Hotel Buildings, Charing Cross ; Crystal Palace, Sydenham; 33, Bold Street, Liverpool; and 409, Keizersgracht, Amsterdam.THE PERFECTION MEAT CUTTER. INVALUABLE IN THE KITCHEN BECAUSE OF ITS MANY USES. CUTS raw or cooked meats, leaving no sinews or strings ; suet; materials for mince meat vegetables for soup ; almonds and cocoanut for cake; and is the ONLY machine that will pul- verize stale bread or biscuits for frying purposes. NO WASTE, EASILY CLEANED AND PUT TOGETHER, GALVANIZED THROUGHOUT, OF FEW PIECES, AND NO PARTS TO WEAR OUT. SIZE. i\'o. 1 cuts 1 lb. PRICE. No. 1... 8/6 No. 2... 11/6 No. 3...16/6 CHARLES CHURCHILL & Co, Ltd., 21, CBOSS STREET, FINSBURY, LONDON, E.C. “DAINTY DISHES,” A Recipe-Book, containing full instructions for use, and a large variety of Re- cipes, accompa- nies each Ma- chine, or sent free on applica- tion.BATTY & Co., FINSBURY, LONDON, E.c. ESTABLISHED 1824. THEIR “CROWN PICKLES’’ AND RENOWNED SAUCES ARE OF THE BEST QUALITY AND Guaranteed Pure and Wholesome. THEIR plAQOB £auCe IS THE Sauce of Sauces, AND THE MOST Delicious for Fish, Hashes, Steaks, Stews, &c. THEIR JAMS, JELLIES, AND MARMALADES Are PREPARED of RIPE SOUND FRUITS AND Refined Sugar only. THEIR CALF’S FOOT JELLIES • Are Unsurpassed for Quality and Flavour. THEIR DR. KITCHENER'S SALAD CREAM Is the most recherchd preparation for Salads. THEIR Nabob Pickle Is UNIVERSALLY AD- MITTED to be the best and most enjoyable Pickle in the World. These well-known Pickles and Sauces are made with the celebrated Vinegar of Messrs. Slee Slee & Co., London.THE Art of Cooking by Gas..p*o**° AND econom,caL c use K^y. Liebig 1 Company s Extract of Meat For Forty pounds BEEF TEA A. of prime and for \ lean Beef strengthening f\ Y U are usec* in and improving South America the flavour of \ to make SOUPS, ^ 1 one pound of SAUCES, 1 Extract; GRAVIES, \ l Y the value of and VV 1 which MADE DISHES. in England I would be about Every Jar l V thirty shillings. should bear the \. \ [ — above signature A PERFECT PURITY in blue ABSOLUTELY across the label. GUARANTEED. COOKERY BOOKS sent free on application to Liebig Extract of Meat Company, Limited, 9, FENCHURCH AVENUE, LONDON, E.O.THE Art of Cooking BY GAS. BY MARIE JENNY SUGG. CASSELL & COMPANY, Limited: LONDON, PARIS Lr MELBOURNE. 1890. |au rights reserved.]Ly 10376^ UNltfLRSIl r LIBRARY LEEDSCONTENTS. l’AGE Introduction ... r Roasters, Kitcheners, Etc 7 General Directions 32 Menus—Dinners for the Four Seasons 63 99 99 > > 99 April ... 64 J5 J> > > f 9 July ... 82 9 9 >> > > 99 October... ... 94 9 9 J> 9 5 99 Christmas ... 106 99 Home Dinners ... ... ... 123 9 9 Luncheons ... 1S8 99 Breakfasts ... ... 232 Bread and Cakes ... 267 Index . ... ... 279* Tt I f <* • ft . •The Art of Cooking by Gas. “ Now, good digestion wait on appetite, And health on both ! ” Macbeth, Act III., Sc. iv. In writing this Handbook of Cooking by Gas, I have not had the prfetension of adding to the already long list of exhaustive cookery books. My aim has been rather to point out the advantages of gas as applied to the work of the kitchen, to give the best method of using it, and to demon- strate practically its superiority for culinary purposes over all other fuel when used properly. To this end, I have described the various types of gas kitcheners, roasters, etc., designed to yield the best work at a minimum of cost and trouble, and have followed up this description by a series of menus, some simple and some elaborate, so as to meet every requirement. In composing these menus, I have carefully selected such dishes as are most useful and ornamental; and I have given, not only accurate time and quantities, but also those many little hints on which success depends in a greater measure than is generally thought. The type of gas kitchener, etc., most suitable for each set of menus is named in each in- stance, to serve as a guide in the hiring or purchasing of the kitcheners, etc., required for a certain class of cookery. The time stated as necessary to prepare the various dishes has been reckoned, assuming that a properly regulated apparatus is used. Should a cook have to work with other and unregulated stoves, care and judgment must be exercised in ascertaining what heat is obtained, and whether that heat n2 The Art of Cooking by Gas. is subject to variations, as it most probably may be. All apparatus, kitcheners, roasters, pastry ovens, etc., ought to be regulated so as to work at the lowest pressure at which gas is supplied, and maintain that pressure uniformly; thus they will be available at any hour of day and night, and temperatures will be made quite independent of any changes in the pressure of the gas. In composing the menus given for various meals, I have endeavoured as much as possible to give to the dishes such names as will be readily understood. The prevailing custom of writing menus in French has induced me to put them down in the two languages, so as to suit both fashion and convenience; yet I have not thought it necessary to insist on having always a literal translation, which, in many instances, would give but a faint idea of what the dish is really like. It is no more possible to translate literally plum pudding, mince pies, mulligatawny, Scotch woodcock, or Welsh rarebit, than souffle, chaudfroid, croute au pot, sole au gratin, and fricandeau. Blanchaille is, at best, but a poor substitute for whitebait; whilst hachis would not at all convey the idea of a haggis; and when it comes to angels on horseback the baffled translatress may well close the dictionary in despair. I have also avoided giving to the dishes high-sounding names which mean nothing in particular, and often dis- appoint the hopes they raise. I may be forgiven for telling the following anecdote, which will illustrate my meaning better than any explanation. At a public dinner given some years ago one of the items on the bill of fare was “ Poulets d’Afrique, sauce il la Livingstone.” Now, this sounds fine enough, and roused the curiosity and anticipation of some of the guests, who wondered what poulets d’Afrique might be. One suggested they perhaps were Guinea fowls, which, con- sidering the name, was not a bad guess. The waiter, being desired to bring some Poulet d’Afrique, presently returnedIntr od uction. 3 with plates, each containing one of the mysterious fowls. These looked swarthy enough to boast African blood, and small enough to be young; but the sauce that accompanied them was nothing more than an ordinary brown sauce, with a few chopped-up herbs added to it. The explorers—I mean the inquisitive guests—cautiously cut a little piece of the flesh and tasted it, then suddenly looked at each other with rather awry face ; and well they might, for that single mouthful had dispelled the mystery. Alas for the poulets d’Afrique ! They were only rooks, they were not young, and they had not even been skinned. And, oh ! the bitterness of them ! The moral of this is: menus should be intelligible so that guests may be able to make their selection with ease and comfort. “ Good wine needs no bush,” and good food can afford to be named plainly, or at least by some title fairly descriptive of its nature. The advantages of gas properly applied to the work of the kitchen are not known to the general public as they deserve to be. Many people suffer from dyspepsia in con- sequence of the defective way in which their food, especially their meat, is prepared. Meat comes to the table under the name of roast meat which has never been roasted at all, but has been put into a closed oven with little or no ventilation, and there left to bake until it has acquired a dull grey brown colour—so much for appearance ; and a half-boiled, half-burnt flavour—so much for taste. Moreover, as all previous joints must have left on the rough porous surface of that too well closed oven something of their fatty vapours which could not escape into the open air, the oven com- municates from one joint to another an average flavouring which renders very natural the question occasionally heard, “ Is this beef or mutton ? or might it be pork ? ” To take another example: pastry is a thing that many people stand in positive dread of, and they often have good reasons for their fears; for, even if the pastry itself is wellThe Art of Cooking by Gas. 4 made, it is so spoiled by baking in defective ovens that it is neither palatable nor digestible, both of which it should be. A well-baked fruit pie is a very useful dish for a family; while the more delicate kinds of pastry—patties, bouche'es, vol-au-vent, tartlets, etc.—are amongst the daintiest articles of food, and should be within the reach of all. Pure home- made bread is invaluable, but if baked in the oven of an ordinary kitchener seldom turns out successfully, so that comparatively few people care to run the risk of making it. If we consider the culinary operations carried on on the hot plate of the ordinary kitchener, such as boiling, braising, soup-making, etc., we find that the cook must always keep up a good fire if any heat is to be obtained ; whilst the only means of checking the boiling is to put the saucepan “ on one side ”: that is to say, removing it far enough from the centre of heat that it shall receive only part of it, and that on one side. The process may answer for quite small sauce- pans, but in the case of larger vessels—say one containing a braised turkey, or a ham, or a large piece of fish—the result must be unsatisfactory; for, even allowing for the circulation of water in the braising pan, induced by the one-sided boiling, the pan must be occasionally turned round to ensure even cooking ; and it comes to this, that only half the turkey, etc., is cooking at one time, while the other half is just kept warm. A man might just as well hope to keep himself dry by opening half an umbrella over his head and protecting alternately his left and right shoulder. To avoid these defects, the points to be kept in view in choosing cooking apparatus are :—ist, to secure a plentiful supply of fresh air having access to all parts of the kitcheners, roasters, etc. ; 2nd, to have the source, or sources, of heat under perfect and independent control. Gas is the most suitable fuel for cooking purposes, and, when properly regulated, can be kept at any height, from the lowest flame necessary to obtain a gentle5 Intro d uction. simmering, to the bright sharp heat needed for roasting, grilling, and frying; while for baking purposes all inter- mediate grades of heat can be produced at any moment by the mere turning of a handle. No hot-water apparatus is attached to the kitcheners. The usual system of putting the boiler at the back of the kitchen fire is a very defective one, and a fruitful source of inconvenience. The warmth and damp kept up by the steam and small leakages from the boiler encourage colonies of crickets and black beetles, and as these insects cannot live without water, cutting off their supply is the only effectual means of getting rid of them. When a good and constant supply of hot water is required, the use of a Boiling Stream Therma, or instantaneous water- heater, fixed over the scullery sink, or any other convenient position, is very much recommended. This will heat any quantity of water, from a jugful to a cisternful, and to any temperature, from lukewarm to boiling-point. (See page 30.) The principal kinds of apparatus in use at the present time for cooking by gas can be divided into two classes— viz., (1), those in which the gas-flames are of a luminous type (that is to say, are similar to the burners used for lighting rooms, but on a smaller scale); and (2), those fitted with burners generally called “atmospheric flames,” in which the gas is largely diluted with air before being burnt. The products of combustion from luminous flames are only steam and carbonic acid, and are no more hurtful than the products from good gas-burners used in lighting rooms, f be products of combustion from the atmospheric burners are steam, carbonic acid, and carbonic oxide—a most dangerous and poisonous gas, generally attended by a very noxious smell, although it is in itself inodorous, and requiring very thorough ventilation to carry it away safely. Moreover, the taste of the meat cooked in ovens heated by blue flames is not so good as that of meat roasted by theThe Art op Cooking by Gas. 6 radiant heat of white flames. ( Vide the “ Report of the Jury of the Crystal Palace Gas and Electric Exhibition, 1883,” who based their opinion on a series of exhaustive trials, and testified to the superiority of the meat cooked by the white flames over that cooked by the blue ones.) The original inventors of cooking by gas used only luminous flames. Mrs. Clarke, the lady superintendent of the National Train- ing School of Cookery, after careful and extended trials at South Kensington (where the school was started), has finally adopted white luminous flames for the new school in Buckingham Palace Road. The burners composing the rings on the top of the kitcheners and hot-plates should be so arranged that the flames cannot touch the bottom of cooking utensils, thus preventing overheating the metal of the saucepans and stewpans, and the consequent burning of their contents. All kitcheners, roasters, grillers, and hot-plates should be provided with a governor. This governor once having been adjusted when the apparatus is first fixed, a supply of gas will always be maintained at a regular and constant pressure. The immense advantage of a constant supply at a uniform pressure cannot be overrated : it does away with all waste, flare of gas, and discolouring of kitchen utensils. Another point is gained by the use of flash lights to each burner. The ordinary method of lighting the gas with matches or paper is both unsatisfactory and uncleanly. Besides, when the cook is at her busiest moment, the temptation is great to leave the gas on when not actually in use, because it will be required presently. If, however, she knows that she has but to touch a handle and the gas will light up, she will be ready enough to turn it out when not wanted, and so save gas and keep the kitchen cool. These flash lights are also valuable in the prevention of possible accidents, because if any burner is inadvertently turned on, it will simply light up and be at once detected ; whereas in7 Roasters and Kitcheners. stoves unprovided with flash lights, the gas may he left on for some minutes before it is noticed, then suddenly catch light with a bang! which, if it does nothing worse, consider- ably disturbs the equanimity of the cook. The best roasters and kitcheners are lined with white enamel, thus securing great cleanliness, as the interior is readily washed out with a flannel dipped in hot water and sprinkled with a little soap-powder, then rinsed and wiped dry. This is best done soon after using the stove, and while it is still warm. In conclusion, the economy of cooking by properly- regulated gas is beyond question; and this economy is realized not only on the fuel saved, but on the food itself, the nutritive properties of which are fully developed without waste. The cleanliness and convenience of gas as a fuel, and the saving in time and labour, need only be once understood to be thoroughly appreciated, and those who adopt gas in the kitchen will find themselves freed from all that trouble, dirt, and uncertainty in working which attend a coal kitchener. ROASTERS, KITCHENERS, &c. The Parisienne Roaster. Roast meat is essentially the national food of England, and if anyone suggested to John Bull that he should abstain from it in future, the idea would be indignantly rejected ; yet John Bull daily eats roast meat which, as I have already pointed out, is roast in name only, and in the cooking of which the primary conditions of success have been neglected. These conditions are a sharp radiant heat, plenty of fresh air, keeping in the juices of the meat, and eliminating theThe Art of Cooking by Gas. 8 Fig. 2. excess of fat, How to obtain these points to perfection has been the subject of careful consideration in design- ing the apparatus now to be described (see Figs, i and 2,Roasters and Kitcheners. 9 Parisienne roaster). The sharp radiant heat is supplied by two rows of luminous flames, one on each side of the meat; the air has ample inlets and outlets, so that a constant stream of fresh air is passing through the roaster; the meat is put on a revolving horizontal spit, turned by a water- motor or a clockwork, which prevents the juices from settling in any one part of the meat to the detriment of Fig. 3. another; the fat melted by the heat glides slowly round the meat, which it keeps basted, until it falls into the dripping- pan. 1 his, being several inches lower than the burners, does not get overheated, and keeps the dripping from boiling or burning, so that it remains clear and sweet and available for many purposes. Roasting meat has been erroneously called the most extravagant way of cooking it, regardless of the fact that it is also the most nutritious; but meat in the Parisienne roaster loses only a minimum of its weight, and yields the best, most tasty, and most nourishing food.IO The Art of Cooking by Gas. Joints cooked in ovens or before a fire often lose as much as thirty-five per cent.; the loss of weight in joints cooked in the Parisienne roaster is only, on the average, ten to twelve per cent, with thoroughly done meat. The front of the lid of the roaster is fitted with two panes of glass, which enable the cook to see the joint with- out opening the roaster, thus avoiding loss of heat. This glass is sufficiently thick, and as it is put in loosely to allow for expansion, it will last for years without cracking. The Parisienne roaster can also be used for baking bread or pastry if desired; for this purpose the spit is re- moved and a grid substituted, which rests on bearers at both ends of the roaster, allowing the heat to circulate freely to all parts of the apparatus. On this grid, supporting asbestos-lined baking sheets, loaf-tins, pie-dishes, etc., can be placed (see Fig. 3). Charing Cross Kitchener. The Charing Cross kitchener (Fig. 4) combines all that is necessary to meet the requirements of an average family, that is roasting, grilling, boiling, frying, and the baking of pastry, puddings, and bread. It is provided with a governor which, once adjusted, will maintain the flames so as to give constantly any required temperature. In point of roasting, it is similar to the Parisienne roaster, the meat being cooked by the radiant heat of rows of regulated luminous burners arranged round the sides and back of the roasting chamber, which is lined with white enamel. It is amply supplied with fresh air, constantly renewed. The meat, which is either hung from a hook or placed on a grid, is stationary instead of revolving, and must be turned once or twice during roasting to prevent the juices from settling in one part of it and leaving the others dry. A joint cooked in this kitchener will want rather more basting than that roasted in the Parisienne, but it will beii Roasters and Kitcheners, Fig. 4. much more evenly cooked, and with less loss, than if it had been turned on a roasting-jack before a coal fire; and willThe Art of Cooking by Gas. 12 be infinitely superior in point of appearance and taste to anything baked in a close oven. Note.—It is not advisable to bake a pie at the same time as meat is being roasted, because the steam and fatty vapours from the meat are detrimental to the pastry, and make it heavy. The best way of proceeding when joint and pie are required for the same meal is to bake the pie first, then roast the joint. When the joint is sent up to the table, clear out the dripping pan, and wipe the grease that may have fallen on the grids, then put in the pie, and in a few minutes it will be quite hot and crisp. The door of the kitchener can be fitted with a thick plate of glass to enable the cook to see inside the roasting or baking chamber without opening the door. This is very useful, and perfectly safe. On the top of the roasting and baking chamber are placed the griller and boiling burners. The burners of the griller are arranged in two lines placed above the grid instead of under. The advantage of this is obvious. The gravy and fat from the meat drop into the pan and cannot burn ; the unpleasant smell of burnt fat and its deterioration are thus entirely avoided. This is a great consideration, for the smell of burnt fat, especially the mutton fat from chops, is positively nauseating, and once it begins to spread it soon pervades the whole house. The griller has two grids fitting in the same pan ; one for steaks, cutlets, etc., the other for fish. The work of the griller being performed by radiant heat, bread placed in it can be as quickly and as well toasted as it would be in front of a clear red fire. There are four or five rings of burners, according to the size of the hot-plate. These burners are set deeply enough to prevent the flames from touching the underpart of the cooking utensils even when turned full on. The hot-plate of Fig. 4 has on the left side a large burner which is specially designed to give a sharp radiant heat for fryingRoasters and Kitcheners. 13 purposes. By the use of this burner in conjunction with the large pan of heated fat for which it is sufficient, fish in general, whitebait in particular, and the dainty morsels known as chicken and lobster cutlets, porames duchesse, Fig- 5-—Enlarged Charing Cross Kitchener. beignets souffles, etc., are easily brought to that “golden brown” so invariably spoken of in cookery books and so puzzling to cooks who, with an ordinary kitchener, are battling with almost an impossibility in trying to follow the directions given to them. There are three other rings14 The Art of Cooking by Gas. besides this one, and the kitchener is very com- pact and convenient. The Charing Cross kitchener represented in Fig. 5 is similar in construction, but the hot-plate is enlarged to afford convenience for more elaborate cooking. In this, the large burner for frying is on the right-hand side; there are four other burners, and the griller, instead of being under the mid- dle, as in Fig. 4, is at the left-hand side, allow- ing room above it for a bain-marie. This is a very complete and supe- rior apparatus for home use. In both Charing Cross kitcheners, all the rings and rows of burners are provided with flash lights. The taps of the burners are neat little lever handles, which are readily turned on and off. This description of the Charing Cross kitchener will suffice for all the different gas kitcheners at present in use. They resemble it in appearance, but differ from it in that W S3 pm ■ O £ C/7 Cxi lx} X D PQ bp £i5 Roasters and Kitcheners they lack one or several of its features. The principal dif- ferences are that they have neither governor nor flash lights, and that the burners are of the atmospheric or blue flame type. Fig. 6a.16 The Art of Cooking by Gas. The Bruxelles Hot-Plate. This is a simple and effective auxiliary hot-plate (Figs. 6 and 6a), composed of ten burners and a double griller, heated by luminous flames controlled by a governor, so that any of the burners composing it can be turned on or off without affecting the work being done by the others. It is invalu- able in kitchens in which a quantity of “ made dishes ” areRoasters, Kitcheners, etc. daily required, and affords convenience for producing the most elaborate dishes in perfection, ci8 The Art of Cooking by Gas. The Criterion Kitchener. This type of kitchener (Fig. 7) is a combination of the Charing Cross kitchener and the Bruxelles hot-plate, and is a very compact apparatus for more elaborate home dinners. It has two roasting chambers (or ovens), set side by side, a double griller, and a hot-plate like the Bruxelles, just described. It can be used either with or without the addition of a Parisienne roaster; but the latter is always recommended as preferable, especially for poultry and game, which it roasts to perfection. This kitchener is also fitted throughout with luminous flames, and is provided with a governor. The Cordon Bleu. This is a design for a kitchener of a yet more compre- hensive character, and is capable of carrying out the most elaborate culinary processes (Fig. 8). It is made up of two Fig. 8a.—Back View of Cordon Bleu Kitchener. roasters, with water motors attached; a Bruxelles hot-plate, with large double griller; and two Charing Cross ovens, lined with white enamel, and provided with sliding shelves. Between them is a plate-warmer, capable of holding enough plates and dishes for a party of twenty-five to thirty people, being supplemented by small additional ovens at the back of both the principal ovens (see Fig. 8a). Provided thatRoasters, Kitcheners, etc. 19 the kitchen is fairly ventilated, this apparatus can be set in any position most convenient to the cook or cooks, so as to be accessible from all sides. This kitchener is fitted Fig. 9A.—Plan of Top. throughout with luminous flames, and has a governor attached to it. The Lady’s Own. This kitchener (see Figs. 9 and 9A) will be found Fig- 9-—Lady’s Own Kitchener.20 The Art or Cooking by Gas. Fig_ jo _The “M£tropole” Kitchener.21 Koasjers, Kitcheners, etc. Fig. ii.—The Westminster Kitchener.The Art of Cooking by Gas. 22 invaluable by ladies who choose to take an active share in the cooking done in the house. So complete is this kitchener, despite the little room it occupies, that it will do, on a smaller scale, nearly all that is performed by the Criterion. It has an oven and a roasting chamber, both lined with white enamel or glass, and each specially fitted for its own work. These are, however, convertible, so that two roasters or two ovens can be obtained by the mere shifting of meat- Fig. 12.—The Little Connaught. hooks and baking-grids. The elevation is at once elegant and convenient, and this kitchener is suitable for either plain or elaborate cooking. It is fitted throughout with luminous flames, controlled by a governor. The Mdtropole Kitchener (Fig. io) and the West- minster Kitchener (Fig. n) are of the same type as the Charing Cross; but they are fitted partly with white flames and partly with blue, and are such as can be hired at a cheap rate from the gas companies. The Little Connaught (Fig. 12), the Double Griller (Fig. 13), and the Single Griller (Fig. 14) are most useful when only a small amount of cooking is required. 1 heyRoasters, Kitcheners, etc. 23 are essentially suited to people who have but little time to devote to the cooking of their meals, and do not care to have the trouble and expense of a fire to keep up. They will roast fowls and small joints, grill chops, steak, and fish, boil eggs and vegetables, make toast, etc. Being very small and compact, they will go conveniently in any spare Fig. 13.—The Double Griller. corner; and as they are fitted with luminous flames under control of a governor, they work economically and give off no injurious fumes. To gentlemen residing in chambers, those reading for the bar, etc., often depending for some of their meals on the tender mercies of laundresses and others who have but vague notions of good cookery, and seldom have the space and convenience for cooking, this little kitchener and the two grillers will prove a great boon. It is most probable that at a time of life which men devote24 The Art of Cooking by Gas. more especially to brain-work, the inferior and inefficient manner in which their food is cooked exercises a very injurious effect on them. Well-cooked food recuperates the forces of both body and brain ; but badly-cooked food is deficient in digestibility and nourishment, and, if “ in- dulged in ” for any length of time, must ruin digestion and health. The preparation of the first meal of the day is of Fig. 14.—The Single Griller. the greatest import, the breakfast being the foundation on which most of the work of the day has to be carried on. It will be remembered that the shrewd Mr. Perker, Mr. Pickwick’s solicitor, considered a good breakfast “highly important;” for, said he, “a good, contented, well-break- fasted juryman is a capital thing to get hold of. ’ And if a “ well-breakfasted juryman ” is “ capital,” why should not every other well-breakfasted man be ? The Roberts’ Griller. This apparatus, which has been specially designed for clubs, large hotels, and restaurants, is remarkably compactFig. 15.—Roberts’ Griller. double griller, an oven, and a plate-warmer, set one above the other, and warmed by one set of luminous burners, controlled by a governor. Roasters, Kitcheners, etc. 25 and effective. It can be set in a recess fronted with tiles, as shown in Fig. 15; or if no such recess is available, it can be jacketed to keep in the heat. It consists of a longThe Art of Cooking by Gas. 26 Braising Burner. The Braising Burner (Fig. 16) makes braising a per- fectly simple and effective operation. It obviates the necessity for using live coals or charcoal on the lid ot the braising-pan, and is far more cleanly and satisfactory to use. Coffee Roasters. The simplest and cheapest effective apparatus used for roasting coffee and fully developing its aroma is similar to that shown in Fig. 17, but is turned by hand ; and as coffee requires from fifteen to twenty or twenty-five minutes to roast, according to the various kinds, it is difficult to getRoasters, Kitcheners, etc. 27 servants to properly perform this tedious operation. With the very simple engine shown in Fig. 17, or a water motor such as is used for the Parisienne roaster (see Fig. 8), the operation becomes automatic, and can be carried on every day without any trouble. Improved Coffee Urn. The essential condition for making good coffee in this and any apparatus is that the wateT shall be freshly Fig. 17.—Coffee Roaster with Steam-Engine. boiled, and be in a boiling state when brought into contact with the coffee. This is not, however, always secured by the use of the ordinary French percolator. The water is generally “ off the boil ” before it can reach the coffee, and, furthermore, its heat is too soon lost by coming into con- tact with the comparatively cold sides of the vessel and the coffee itself. The improved coffee urn shown in Figs.The Art of Cooking by Gas. 28 i 8 and 19 effectually remedies this, as in it, it is the very boiling of the water which forces it through the ground Fig. 18.—Improved Coffee-Urn. coffee and extracts its goodness. (See “ Directions lor Making Coffee,” p. 233.) The Rapid Boiler. The Rapid Boiler (Fig. 2c) is a small gas-stove fittedRoasters, Kitcheners, £7T. 29 with luminous burners, and controlled by a governor. It is Fig. 19.- Section of Coffee Urn. useful for boiling a kettle or other vessel, and, being nickel- plated, is a very neat and ornamental little utensil. It will be useful not only in the kitchen or pantry, but can be3° The Art of Cooking by Gas. attached to a sideboard or table by a permanent or flexible metal pipe (not an indiarubber one) when it is desired to make the tea and coffee in the breakfast-room or dining- room. In the dressing-room, for heating shaving-water or curling-tongs ; in the nursery, for warming infants’ food ; or in the sick room for various purposes, it is invaluable, being Fiy. 20.—RAriD Boiler. perfectly cleanly, free from smell and noxious fumes, and always ready when wanted. There are a great many small ring burners sold for similar purposes by ironmongers ; but these are mostly fitted with blue flames, and should only be used when placed close to a flue, which may carry away their unpleasant smell and dangerous fumes. The Boiling Stream Therma. This very effective and very simple water-heater (Fig. 21), the invention of Professor A. Vernon Harcourt, entirely31 Roasters, Kitcheners, etc. supersedes the expensive and troublesome apparatus usually laid on through pipes from die kitchen boiler. It can be used either in the kitchen, the pantry, the housemaid’s Fig. 2i.—Boiling Stream Therma. closet, the bath-room, the lavatory, dressing-room, and, indeed, in any part of a house where a supply of hot water is required. Its construction is simple, and it is heated by luminous flames under perfect control of a governor. It gives off no unpleasant smell when in use, and produces no3 2 The Art of Cooking by Gas. injurious gases. There are numbers of different types of this apparatus in the market; but some have blue-flame burners, which ought not to be used on any account, because of the poisonous fumes they give off. GENERAL DIRECTIONS. Hoasting. When about to roast a joint in the Parisienne roaster, light the burners of the roaster and put two large spoonfuls of good dripping in the dripping pan; take out the spit. Close the lid and leave the gas full on for ten minutes, to allow the roaster to get hot. See that the joint is properly skewered, and of compact shape; wipe it thoroughly, and weigh it to ascertain the exact weight. The spit is provided with two sliding skewers, or drivers; the one nearest to the handle always remains on; unscrew it slightly so as to allow it to move along the spit according to the size of joints. Remove the slide nearest to the point, spit the joint so that it is fairly balanced, and replace the slide. Drive the points of both sliding skewers into the meat if the joint is large; if small, one skewer will be sufficient. Fasten the screw tightly. At the pointed end of the spit put on the loose handle, and, taking up the meat thus spitted by both handles, place it in the roaster so that the toothed wheel on the fixed handle end of the spit gears into the driving worm of the turnspit; turn down the catch, which will be found inside at the end nearest to the clockwork, or motor, and which prevents the weight of the meat (if slightly outGeneral Directions—Roasting. 33 v of balance) from slipping the toothed wheel out of gear. Now place the joint about equi-distant from each end of the roaster, and tighten the thumb-screws of the drivers so that they are firmly fixed to the spit and all turns together. It is sometimes asserted, but without reason, that spitting the meat lets out the juices. The spit conducts the heat through the centre of the meat and helps the regularity of the cooking, but it does not let out any juices. In fact, heat-conducting skewers have actually been invented to drive in meat when it is cooked in coal or gas ovens, and it is found that by their use the meat is better cooked, and loses less weight. If the spit is turned by. clockwork, wind it up ; if by a water motor, turn on the water till a fairly regular speed of about three or four turns per minute is obtained. The water motor enables the cook to regulate the speed with great nicety. The joint (or poultry) should turn only just fast enough to enable the juices and fat of the meat to glide slowly along the surface and round it, until they fall in the dripping pan. The turnspit being started, baste the joint thoroughly with the dripping, and close the roaster. Allow ten minutes for large joints, five minutes for small ones, with the gas still full on, to close the pores of the meat and keep in the juices. Reduce the gas to half full on, or three-quarter full on, according to directions, for the longer period of cooking, and turn it again full on for a few minutes at the last, to finish browning the meat. These directions apply to all kinds of meat and poultry, the time needed being stated for each kind under their several headings. For small joints it is well to keep the gas rather low after it has been full on for a few minutes, for, should the gas be kept too high throughout the cooking, the meat would be dried up. While the joint is cooking, look at it occasionally through the glass front, opening the lid only when the meat wants DThe Art of Cooking by Gas. 34 basting. Stop basting a few minutes before taking up the joint. When the meat is done, turn out the gas and stop the motor, open the roaster, put on the loose handle at the pointed end of the spit, lift the joint out and on to a very hot dish, loosen the screws of the sliding skewers, and remove the one nearest to the point. Draw the spit out and let the joint rest on the dish. Pull out the dripping pan, remove the fat carefully into a basin, pour about a quarter of a pint of hot gravy or good stock in the pan, and gently move it backwards and forwards • this will assist in removing such gravy as may have dried up on the sides of the pan. Pour this liquor round the joint. Care must be taken not to pour the gravy over the meat, as it spoils the appearance of the joint at once. When the meat is cut open, the juices of it will run into the dish, mixing with the gravy already there, and making up with it the best sauce which can be served with roast meat. If such a kitchener as the Charing Cross is used for roasting, the joints, poultry, etc., will take about the same time as if roasted in the Parisienne roaster, but will require a little more basting, and must be turned once or twice, to ensure even roasting. If an unregulated stove is used, the cook must ascertain by practical experiment the time needed to cook a certain weight of meat. There is considerable variation in the results according to the pres- sure obtained. On an average these stoves will cook from four to five pounds an hour. Beef.—Light the gas in the roaster for ten miuutes. Spit the joint as directed above, put it in the roaster, and baste it well; start the turnspit, close the roaster. If the joint weighs twelve pounds, allow ten minutes with the gas still full on, an hour and a half with it three-quarter full on, and turn it full on again for twenty minutes to brown the meat, making a total of two hours. For a six-pound joint, allow five minutes with the gas full on, forty minutes with it half-full on, andGeneral Directions—Roasting. 35 fifteen minutes full on again, making a total of one hour. Mutton.-—Saw the knuckle-bone off within two inches of the meat, and trim off the pieces of skin at the loin end with a sharp knife. Spit the joint as directed, start the turnspit, and, supposing the joint to weigh eight pounds, allow ten minutes after the meat is put in with the gas full on, fifty minutes with the gas three-quarter full on, and twenty minutes full on at the last, making a total of one hour and twenty minutes. Excellent gravy can be made from the knuckle- bone and trimmings ; for directions see “ Gravies,” page 57. A small joint of mutton, such as a cut from the neck, weighing about three pounds, will take forty minutes. Allow five minutes with the gas full on, half an hour with it half- full on. and turn it again full on for five minutes at the last to brown the joint. Being fatter than a leg it will require less basting, except just at the beginning. Lamb will take rather longer than mutton to roast, as the heat must be slow in order not to dry up the meat, and at the same time it must be very thoroughly done. Full directions are given on page 73 for roasting a fore-quarter of lamb, and on page 149 for roasting a leg of lamb. Veal.—This requires very careful cooking, and when either put before a fire or baked in an oven is often burnt and dried up, its delicate juices being very readily affected by too fierce a heat, whilst, unless thoroughly done, it will be both unpalatable and indigestible. Choose a piece of the fillet of veal weighing about eight pounds. Remove the bone, and wipe the joint. Make a forcemeat as below, and fill the place of the bone with it; put some also under the flap ; draw this round, and bind it tightly so as to make the joint compact and round. Fasten with skewers over the side in which the forcemeat has been put the piece of skin which the butcher has sent with the joint; this will have the double advantage of keeping the forcemeat36 The Art of Cooking by Gas. in place and preventing it from getting dry. Put the spit through the thickest part of the meat from skin to skin, so that the open sides of the meat shall be facing the rows of burners when in the roaster. Put the joint in the roaster, which has been previously heated for ten minutes, and put two large spoonfuls of beef dripping in the pan for basting. Start the turnspit, and keep the gas full on for ten minutes, baste the joint well, then reduce the flames to not more than half full. Being all meat it wants cooking very slowly, to allow the heat to penetrate through the meat without drying the outside. Let the joint cook for an hour, basting it now and then; remove the skin which has been skewered on, to allow the meat to get evenly coloured. Continue cooking for half an hour more, then turn the gas full on for twe?ity minutes to brown the meat well, making a total of two hours, irrespective of the ten minutes for heating the roaster. The forcemeat for roast veal is made as follows :—Chop finely half a pound of suet, free from skin and fibre; mix with it half a pound of bread crumbs, made by rubbing the bread through a wire sieve, the yellow rind of half a small lemon, grated, a tea-spoonful of salt, and half a tea-spoonful of white pepper, marjoram and thyme, half a tea-spoonful of each, a very little mace, and a table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Beat two yolks of eggs together, and mix them with the dry ingredients to make a stiff paste (or use one egg and a little milk); when well mixed and quite smooth, it is ready for use. For directions for veal gravy see page 58. Sauce piquante, sauce Robert, or tomato sauce are all suitable to send to the table with veal. Pork.—Score the skin of a leg of pork round, at intervals of a quarter of an inch, beginning at the knuckle. It can be stuffed with the forcemeat given hereafter, or sage and onion may be sent to the table separately if more agreeable.General Directions—Roasting. 37 Heat the roaster for ten minutes. Spit the joint evenly (see page 32), and brush it over with Lucca oil; oil is much pre- ferable to any other fat for this purpose, as nothing else will make the crackling so crisp and delicate. Start the turnspit. Allow ten minutes with the gas full on after the joint has been put in the roaster, reduce the gas to half full on for one hour and a half, then turn it on full again for twenty minutes, making a total of two hours. Forcemeat for Pork.—Boil three onions (Spanish onions by preference) for ten minutes ; this will make them milder and more digestible than if used raw. Drain them well, chop them up finely; mix with them the same quantity of fine bread crumbs, a large table-spoonful of pounded sage, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of white pepper, one ounce of butter, and the yolk of an egg ; mix well. Lift the skin round the knuckle, and put the forcemeat underneath. Draw the skin down, and tie it round to keep it in place. This string will be removed' when the joint is taken up. Applesauce (.seepage 126) is the most usual accompaniment of roast pork, but sauce Robert, sauce piquante, and ravigote are also suitable, and are very useful for warming up cold roast pork. Fowls.—Heat the roaster for ten minutes. Put two large spoonfuls of good beef dripping in the pan. Spit the fowl or pair of fowls so that they are well balanced, and fasten them with the driving skewers to prevent them from slipping. Start the turnspit; allow five minutes with the gas full on after the fowls have been put in, basting them well, especially at the beginning, forty minutes with the gas half full on, and fifteen minutes at the last with the gas full on, making a total of one hour. These directions are for average full-grown plump fowls. Spring chickens will take about forty-five minutes (see page 76). Should the fowls be stuffed, they will want a quarter of an hour longer with the gas half full, but five minutes with the gas full on will be sufficient UNIvTRjII f LIBRARY LEEDS38 The Art of Cooking by Gas. to finish and brown them. The forcemeats given for turkey are all suitable for fowls, as is also P£rigueux sauce for truffled fowls. The Parisienne roaster will hold two large fowls. Three spring chickens can be roasted in it by spitting them differently, that is driving the spit through the bird between the wing and leg. Two pairs can be roasted in the Charing Cross kitchener if necessary. Turkey.—Of this it should be remarked that the hen turkey is the best. It can be eaten simply roasted like a fowl, but is usually stuffed with a variety of forcemeats, according to individual tastes. It must be borne in mind that the forcemeat being inside of the bird (stuffing the flap of the breast only is not recommended, as flavouring only one part), it will take some considerable time to warm through. If the gas is turned on too full, the flesh will be done before the forcemeat has fairly begun to cook, and the very fact of the meat being done will prevent the heat from penetrating. Therefore, taking, for instance, a turkey weigh- ing about ten pounds, and having filled the inside with forcemeat, weigh it; it will come to about twelve pounds. Heat the roaster for ten minutes, and put in the dripping pan two or three spoonfuls of good beef dripping. Spit the turkey securely. Start the turnspit; leave the gas full on for five minutes, basting the turkey well with the melted dripping ; then reduce the gas to half full on, and cook for two hours and a quarter, keeping the bird well basted ; turn the gas full on, and give the turkey one more basting, and in ten minutes it will be ready for the table. If it is stuffed with sausage-meat, some broiled sausages will.be sent to the table round the dish, and bread sauce and gravy in tureens will accompany it; but if the turkey is truffled, Perigueux sauce only will be served with it. Forcemeat for Roast Turkey.—Lay a sweetbread in cold water for two hours, wash it well, and put it in a pan of boiling water, to which a pinch of salt has been added. Boil it overGeneral Directions—Roasting. 39 the gas turned three-quarter full on for eight or ten minutes. When a skewer passes easily through it, it is done. Drain it, and when cool, cut it in small dice. Mince finely half a pound of fresh pork, half a pound of veal, or the flesh of half a cold fowl, and the liver of the turkey. Soak a slice of bread in gravy, and squeeze it nearly dry. Mix all these together with four ounces of butter just warmed, and, if liked, a dozen bearded oysters cut small. Add a dozen button mushrooms which have been peeled, and blanched in boiling water for five minutes; a tea-spoonful each of chopped-up parsley, thyme, and yellow rind of lemon ; a tea-spoonful of salt; and a salt-spoonful of pepper. Mix in two whole eggs to bind the farce; fill the body and crop of the turkey, and sew the opening securely with soft cotton. Take out the cotton before sending the bird to the table. This forcemeat is very delicate. The forcemeat given for braised turkey can also be used. For truffle forcemeat see “ Roast Turkey Poult.” A more simple forcemeat is made by taking equal weights of sausage, meat, bread soaked in gravy and squeezed nearly dry, and warmed butter, adding pepper, salt, and herbs as above, and binding the mixture with two whole eggs. Goose.—Choose a plump white goose, having yellow and supple feet, which indicate that the bird is young. Fill it with forcemeat, and sew up the openings. Heat the roaster for ten minutes. Spit the goose firmly ; put it in the roaster, and start the turnspit. Allow ten minutes with the gas full on, basting with good beef dripping; not much of this will be required, as the goose is naturally fat and will soon yield enough to keep it well basted. Cook the bird for seventy minutes with the gas half full on, then turn it full on for ten minutes, making altogether one hour and a half. The goose must be slowly, but very thoroughly, cooked, or it will be both unpalatable and indigestible. Serve with good gravy and apple sauce (see page 126).40 The Art of Cooking by Gas. The above directions are given for a Michaelmas goose weighing about eight pounds ; for goslings see page 90. Forcemeat for Goose—Sage and Onion.—Boil four large onions for half an hour, drain them, and chop them in small pieces. Melt two ounces of butter in a stewpan over the gas, turned three-quarter full on ; add the onions, and fry them for five minutes, without letting them turn colour; add four ounces of bread crumbs, soaked in gravy and squeezed dry. Cleanse and boil the liver foi ten minutes, chop it finely, add it to the forcemeat, stir to mix it smoothly, flavour with four leaves of fresh sage or a tea- spoonful of dried sage, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a pinch of pepper. Let the stuffing cool, and fill the goose with it. Fasten the opening securely with soft cotton. Forcemeat for Goose—Chestnuts.—Cut the points off two dozen large chestnuts, and roast them for a quarter of an hour; peel them carefully, removing the inner skin, and put them in a saucepan, with enough light white stock to cover them. Simmer over the gas, turned half full on, until they are tender; they will take about three-quarters of an hour. Pass them through a wire sieve into a basin, add to them an onion which has been boiled for twenty minutes and chopped up very small, a slice of bread soaked in gravy, the liver of the goose boiled for ten minutes and chopped up small, two ounces of warmed butter, a tea- spoonful of chopped-up parsley. These being well mixed, let the forcemeat cool, and fill the goose with it. Goose can also be stuffed with apples, peeled, cored, cut in small pieces, and blanched in boiling water for ten minutes, in which case no apple sauce need be served with it. In all cases sew the opening carefully, to prevent the escape of the stuffing. Remove the cotton when dish- ing up. Ducks.—Stuff the birds with a forcemeat. Heat the roaster for ten minutes; spit the ducks neck to neck in theGeneral Directions—Roasting. 41 middle of the roaster, and keep the gas full on for five minutes, basting with good beef dripping; then lower the gas to half full on, and cook for half an hour, basting occa- sionally ; turn the gas full on for ten minutes. Serve with gravy and apple sauce (see page 126) in tureens. The forcemeats given for goose are suitable for ducks, reckoning for one duck half the quantity given for a goose. If a pair of ducks are roasted, a different forcemeat may be used for each to suit all tastes. Sucking-Pig.—Choose a sucking-pig about three weeks old ; wipe it thoroughly, stuff it with a forcemeat, sew the slit securely; heat the roaster for ten minutes ; rub the pig all over with fresh Lucca oil, and spit it securely in the middle of the roaster. Start the turnspit; allow five minutes with the gas full on, then turn it to half full on for two hours; baste constantly with good Lucca oil, which is better than anything else for this purpose. Turn the gas full on for twenty or twenty-five minutes to brown, and stop basting five minutes before taking up the pig. Turn out the gas and stop the motor. Lift the pig out, and put it on a hot dish ; cut off its head and remove the brain. Split the pig down the back, and lay the two halves back to back in the dish, with the head at the top. Have ready some good beef or veal gravy; rub the brain through a wire sieve into it; add a little cayenne pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon. Warm for a minute or two, if necessary. Send up also apple sauce in a boat, and currants on a plate with the pig. Forcemeat for Sucking-Pig.—Pass through a sausage machine a pound of fresh pork, a pound of veal, and half a pound of calfs liver; add a shallot, finely chopped up, a tea-spoonful of powdered sage, one of thyme, and a salt- spoonful of grated nutmeg. Season with a tea-spoonful of salt and a salt-spoonful of pepper. Butter six slices of bread, cut from a tin loaf and free from crust; spread on42 The Art or Cooking by Gas. each a layer of the forcemeat, and cut each slice across in four pieces. Pile these up one on the other like sand- wiches, and place them lengthwise in the pig, any forcemeat that is left being put in to fill spaces round. Sew up the belly carefully. Aiiother forcemeat is made with a pound of sausage- meat, six ounces of bread soaked in gravy, and a dozen chestnuts, prepared as directed for goose. Add a tea- spoonful of powdered sage, a salt-spoonful of salt, a pinch of pepper, and four ounces of warmed butter. Mix well, and use. Currants for Sucking-Pig.—Wash and pick half a pound of fine currants, put them on a baking-tin in the hot oven, and as soon as they are warm and just dry, dish them on a small plate covered with a lace-paper, and serve. Game will be treated of at full length in the various menus following these general directions. It is especially in cooking game that the Parisienne roaster is unrivalled in producing a perfect appearance, and preserving the distinct and delicate flavours of each kind. As a rule, white meats, whether flesh or fowl, require a slower heat and longer cooking than brown meats. Thus beef, mutton, and all brown game can be cooked more briskly than veal, lamb, fowls, turkeys, pheasants, etc., which require a slow, gentle heat to penetrate the flesh thoroughly without drying the outside. Grilling. The grill of the Charing Cross and Me'tropole kitcheners, the Roberts’ griller, the single and double grillers, and the Connaught kitchener (which have already been described), will be found excellent for cooking steaks, chops, fish, small birds, etc. Grilled meat, well prepared, is at once the most tempting and the most digestible food, being in that respect superior even to roast meat. For people whose digestion is weak and appetite uncertain, nothing is so suitable as aGeneral Directions—Grilling. 43 tender and juicy cutlet or a piece of fillet steak carefully trimmed and done to a turn in the griller; whilst to a hungry man, whose appetite has been sharpened by keen air, a porter-house or rump steak cooked by the same pro- cess, and accompanied by the dainty pommes soufflees and the piquant tomatoes, or perhaps the homely but savoury onions, will indeed be a feast. It has been mentioned that it is well to have two grids fitting in the same pan, one being used for meat and birds, the other for fish. These must be kept very dry and free from rust. When about to use the griller, light the burners, and heat the griller for two or three minutes; then wipe the grid with a rough cloth, and rub it with a little fat to pre- vent the meat from sticking to the bars. While cooking, turn it over two or three times with a pair of steak-tongs, which are preferable to the use of a fork, as they do not prick the meat. One pound of steak cut an inch thick will take twenty minutes; if done more quickly, it will be dried up outside without being well done inside. (See “ Grilled Steak,” page 228.) Loin chops take from hvelve to fifteen minutes, according to size and thickness; neck cutlets, five or six minutes; and lamb cutlets, not more than four minutes. Pork chops, on the contrary, which require slow and very thorough cooking, will take twenty minutes. Generally speaking, when the meat feels soft and spongy between the tongs, it wants a little more cooking ; but as soon as it feels firm and looks a rich brown, it is done. A spring chicken, split and grilled, will cook in thirty minutes; pigeons done in the same way, twenty minutes; small birds, such as snipe, plovers, etc., cooked whole, from eight to ten minutes. For salmon steaks cut about an inch thick, allow twenty minutes, with the gas three-quarter full on ; medium-sized split mackerel, the same time ; a salmon-trout weighing about two pounds, thirty minutes; kippered herrings, ten44 77//r Art of Cooking by Gas. minutes. All these things will be more fully explained under their special headings. In all cases put a little butter on the meat or fish that is being grilled to keep it moist. Keep the griller very clean and free from rust. Frying. A special burner giving off very sharp heat is provided, both on the Charing Cross kitchener and the Bruxelles hot-plate, for the purpose of frying. Frying includes two dis- tinct processes : (i) that which is done in the usual shallow frying pan, and is suitable for omelets, sweet and savoury, pancakes, etc. ; and (2) the frying of fish, croquettes, and other delicacies, which can only be done successfully by plunging in very hot fat the various articles of food to be fried. For the former process only just enough butter or fat to cover the bottom of the shallow pan is used, care being taken that the pan is perfectly clean and free from rust. For the latter purpose use a pan about nine inches broad and four inches deep, which is a good convenient size, except for very large soles, etc., when the oval pan and strainer will be preferable; and, for small articles, a wire basket which fits the inside of the pan so as to be easily lifted in and out (see Fig. 22). Three pounds of fat, or three pints of oil, if preferred, will be found sufficient for a pan of the size indicated. This quantity, which no doubt will seem large to those accustomed to use a small piece of butter in a shallow frying pan, is. in reality, much more economical; for, if clarified after use and kept in a cool place, it will serve over and over again until it begins to acquire a brown tint and a slightly burnt smell, when it is no longer fit for use. A separate quantity of fat should be kept for frying sweet things, such as beignets souffles, apple fritters, etc., for, though, of course, no salt must ever be put in frying fat, it may retain a savoury taste which would be quite out of place in a sweet dish.General Directions—Grilling. 45 Fat for Frying.—Lard always leaves the fried articles more or less greasy; butter is expensive and often unsatis- factory 3 Lucca oil is also too dear to be used in any but small quantities, which will not do for frying fish and all such things as must be plunged, in the hot fat; good cotton-seed oil, if obtainable, is excellent for frying, but if not very pure gives a most unpleasant taste and smell. Besides, frying in Fig. 22. oil is always attended with a certain amount of danger, as oil is apt to catch fire very readily. Should this occur, the only thing to do is to stifle the flame under a thick cloth. Water is worse than useless to put out the oil, and, indeed, if thrown in would cause grave accidents. The best fat for frying is clarified beef dripping, such as obtained from roast joints; but failing this, which may be wanted for basting and other purposes, clarified beef suet will be the most practical and the most satisfactory. To clarify Suet for Frying.—Take three pounds of kidney suet, free from skin and veiny pieces. Chop it up finely, put it in a stewpan over the gas turned half full on, so that it melts without turning colour. When it is all melted and is so clear that the bottom of the saucepan is easily seen4 6 The Art of Cooking by Gas. through it, turn out the gas and let the fat rest for ten minutes. Strain it into a basin, add to it a pint of water, very hot but not boiling; stir well to wash the fat, cover the basin, put it away in a cool place. When quite cold, lift the cake of fat out of the basin, wipe the underpart of it, and store it away in a covered jar duly labelled. Dripping is simply clarified by putting it in a basin, pouring hot water over it, and stirring well round. It is then put away to cool, lifted off, and stored away in the same manner as the frying fat. This is fit for basting as well as frying, or can be used as a substitute for butter in cooking. When the fat is put in the pan for frying, the gas should be turned half full on for a few minutes to allow the fat to dissolve, then turned full on, and in about ten minutes it will be ready. It should be very hot, but not boiling; it is ready when it has quite ceased bubbling and a thin blue smoke rises from it which draws to one side. If the cook wishes to make sure that it has reached the requisite temperature let her drop a small piece of bread crumb, say a couple of inches square, into the fat. If the bread turns quickly of a golden brown colour, and, when lifted out, looks crisp and dry, the fat is just right; but if the bread remains pale, and looks sodden and greasy, the fat requires a little more heating. For soles, whiting, Thames dabs, smelts, etc., having pre- pared the fish with egg and bread crumb (see page 48), slip it in the hot fat. The fat will splutter as the fish is put in, in consequence of the great difference of temperature between them ; and if the fish were thrown in hastily, instead of being slipped into the pan, the hands might be splashed. Note.—No water must be allowed to fall into the hot fat while it is over the gas. The water, being heavier than the fat, sinks to the bottom, where it is rapidly converted into steam, and causes a violent bubbling of the fat, and some- times throws it about.General Directions—Grilling. 47 Turn the fish gently about with the slice so as not to break it. In three or four minutes, according to the size of the fish, it will have acquired a bright golden tint and be well done. It can be then taken out and drained on a hot cloth, for it should be sent to the table absolutely dry and free from grease. The door of the griller of the Charing Cross kitchener being opened, forms a useful shelf. Put on it a dish or a baking tin, covered with a clean rough cloth thickly folded. It will get warm while the fish is being fried. Lift the fish out and put it on this cloth, and it will dry rapidly without getting cold. It is better to use a cloth than paper for draining fried things, as paper gets soaked with the fat and tears readily, and pieces of it may stick to the articles dried on it. If several batches of fish, etc., have to be fried, always allow a little time between each batch for the fat to get hot again. Not too large a batch should be fried at one time, or it will cool the fat too much. For small and delicate articles, such as chicken and lobster cutlets, sweetbreads, pommes duchesse, croquettes, etc., use the frying basket; take care to plunge it into the fat for a couple of minutes before putting in the articles to be fried. Have these at hand on a plate, lift them into the basket, which is held up just above the fat, and arrange them so that they do not touch each other. Plunge the basket in the fat, and as soon as the things are of a golden brown lift them out, transfer them carefully to the hot cloth, and put the basket in again to heat for another batch if necessary. When the frying is done, turn the gas out; allow the fat to get cool for ten minutes; clarify it as directed, and when cold and set, lift it out, wipe off the little water which may be clinging to the underside, and put it in a clean jar, duly labelled; cover it to keep the dust off, and store away. Great care should be taken that frying pans and baskets are not allowed to get any speck of rust on them. This applies especially to shallow frying pans, in which the articles to be48 The Art of Cooking by Gas. fried come in more direct contact with the metal, for, wher- ever there is a speck of rust, the omelet orjpancake will stick and burn. When washed they ought to be very thoroughly dried. If put away for any length of time a little mutton fat should be rubbed on them. When wanted for use, put the pan on the burner with a little fat in it, and when this is melted wipe the pan thoroughly, rubbing it well with a rough cloth then, and then only, put in the fat, which will be used for frying. A word as to the misuse of a frying pan : on no account should mutton or lamb cutlets be fried, as they are but too often. This is an absolute rule if good, wholesome, and palatable meat is to be obtained. When wanted for an entree, or a breakfast or luncheon dish, they should be grilled, either plain or covered with egg and bread crumbs, and then dished as required. To Egg and Bread-crumb Fish, Cutlets, Sweetbreads, Cro- quettes, etc.—Rub the bread (stale, but not too dry) through a wire sieve, making a good quantity at a time, say the crumb of a half-quartern loaf. The crust can be dried in the oven and grated for brown bread crumbs, so that nothing need be wasted. To have a good quantity of fine bread crumbs to deal with is a great advantage, as it enables the work to be done much more quickly and efficiently. The crumbs not used, if dried in the oven and passed through the sieve, will keep, in a cool dry place, until wanted again. It is best to make the crumbs in advance, dry them in a cool oven without letting them get brown, and keep them in a covered jar ready for use. When they are wanted put them on the table in a piece of kitchen paper. Break an egg on a plate, and make sure it is quite sweet, whisk it briskly, put one croquette in the plate, and brush it over lightly and evenly with egg. When well covered, lift it carefully with a large palette knifeGeneral Directions—Grilling. 49 and put it in the bread crumbs; cover it with these, and roll it well in without touching it at first with the hands. When the bread crumbs are adhering to it all round, it will be dry enough to handle, and must be lightly patted into good shape with the fingers and knife, and put on a dish ready for frying. Sweetbreads, chicken and lobster cutlets, potato cro- quettes, are all treated in the same way. It is a great con- venience that they can be prepared and covered with egg and bread crumbs some hours before they are required for frying, as this leaves the cook free to attend to other things, knowing well that the frying and draining will occupy but a few minutes. Lamb cutlets should have a little pepper and salt sprinkled on each side, be dipped in clarified butter, rolled in bread crumbs, then be brushed over with the egg and receive a second coat of bread crumbs. These are, of course, not to be fried, but grilled. Fish fried whole or in fillets should be well washed, thoroughly dried with a cloth, then passed in flour to which a little pepper and salt has been added, and egg and bread- crumbed at once. It must not be floured and put by, but floured and covered with egg and bread crumbs immediately. It can then remain until wanted. Fried Parsley is a great ornament to fried fish, cutlets, etc., and is much better than raw parsley, which, in the proximity of hot fried fish, always gives off a faint and rather unpleasant odour, especially if it has been covered. The parsley should be washed and picked very clean in small bunches, free from yellow leaves, then dried in a cloth, put in the wire basket, and dipped in the fat after the fish is all fried. It does not require such a high temperature as fish or croquettes, so the gas can be lowered to hardly half full on. It makes a great hissing and spluttering on going into the fat on account of the moisture which clings to it. Dry E5° The Art of Cooking by Gas. it in the oven, or under the grill on a hot cloth, and it is ready for use. Batter for Frying.—Apple fritters, kromeskies, and various other things, are fried in batter, made as follows :— Put four ounces of sifted flour in a basin. Make a hole in the middle, and pour in rather more than a quarter of a pint of water; add a pinch of salt. Mix these together, add gradually two yolks of eggs and two table-spoonfuls of oil. Mix well until quite smooth ; it should be thick enough to coat a spoon to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. If too thick, add a little water; twenty minutes before using, whisk the whites of the eggs until very firm, mix them in, and the batter is ready for use. If this batter is used for sweet things, such as apple fritters, use very little salt, but it should never be quite without salt. The batter is always better if made several hours before it is wanted, as it gets then much lighter than if used at once. Crofitons and Croustades.—Croutons make a pretty garnish for many dishes, and are easily made. Cut bread, fairly stale, in slices about three-eighths of an inch thick and free from crust; stamp it into pretty shapes with pastry cutters. Heat the fat as for frying fish, and put the frying basket in it. The fat being hot and still, put the croutons in the basket and fry them a golden brown, drain them on a hot cloth, and use them as soon as they are dry. Croutons for soups are made by cutting bread in slices as di- rected above, and dividing the slices in small dice. Fry these in the same manner, drain very thoroughly on a hot cloth, and serve on a small plate covered with a lace paper. Croustades are made thicker, half an inch if a pure'e is to be spread on them, and as much as an inch and a half if the middle is to be scooped out as for croustades of chicken, cups for plovers’ eggs, etc. In this case, cut the croustades with a round or oval pastry cutter, and, using a smaller one,General Directions—Boiling, 51 cut an inner circle or oval about a quarter of an inch deep and a quarter of an inch distant from the edge; fry the croustades and drain them, scoop out the middle and the soft inside, leaving the bottom half an inch thick, and fill with pure'e or ragout as directed (see page 258), or stand the eggs upright in the croustades (see page 250). Brown Bread Crumbs.—Dry in the warm oven the crust of a loaf from which the crumb has been taken for making white bread crumbs or pulled bread, or any crust left from cutting croutons, sandwiches, etc. When quite crisp put the pieces of crust in a clean dry cloth, fold it over, and roll the crust into crumbs with a rolling-pin. Pass these through a wire sieve and keep them in a covered jar in a dry place. Boiling. The process of boiling varies greatly, according to the articles to be boiled, and the main point to be considered is whether it is desired to keep in the nourishment and flavour, as in boiling beef, ham, fish, etc., for the table, or to extract that nourishment and flavour, as in soup, broth, and stock making. In the former case, the water must be boiling before the cooking is begun ; in the latter, it should be cold. When a ham, for instance, is to be boiled, the gas must be lighted, and the braising pan filled with as much water as will cover the ham. This water being heated until it boils, the ham will be put in, and as this will have the effect of stopping the boiling, the gas must be left full on until the water begins to boil again ; it should then be turned down a little, so as to just keep the water simmering ; if the water boils too fast, the ham will be hard. In all instances, the meat boiled, if it is to be served cold, should be left to cool in its own liquor ; and as nothing should ever be left to cool in a metal vessel, it must be turned out into a deep basin with the liquor, and put aside until wanted. The meat treated in this way will be more tender52 The Art oe Cooking by Gas. and tasty than if cooled dry. For utilizing the liquor in which fish, flesh, or fowl has been boiled see “ Stocks,” page 54- To boil fish, put in the kettle sufficient cold water to cover the fish ; add to each quart of water a dessert-spoonful of salt and a tablespoonful of French vinegar, or a wine-glass- ful of white wine; set the kettle over the gas turned full on, and bring the water to boiling-point, skim it, lift the strainer out, put the fish on it, and put it back in the kettle. Let the water boil up again, skim, reduce the gas so as to keep the water only simmering, and reckon the time for cooking from that moment. White fish, such as turbot, should always be rubbed with a piece of lemon before being cooked ; this will assist the water in removing the impurities, which rising to the surface are then easily skimmed off. This skimming must be carefully and thoroughly done, or when the fish is lifted out of the kettle, the scum will settle on it, spoiling both appearance and taste. Fish should be very gently sim- mered in order that it may not be broken. If the fish is ready for the table a little too soon, it should wait in the fish kettle, and not be taken out until wanted. In this case turn down the gas very low. This will keep the water hot and the fish in good condition. Of course, the fish ought not to be ready and waiting more than a few minutes. Should, however, anything untoward prolong the delay, it is better to lift the fish out of the water, and, setting the strainer crosswise on the kettle, cover the fish with a hot damp cloth. But this is, at best, only a makeshift, and if the cook has timed herself well, and the guests are punctual, it should never be resorted to, as fish is best when ea.ten directly it is done. Fish is often overdone through the cook’s anxiety lest it should not be done enough, and in using a coal kitchener she may have good reason to be anxious; but in boiling fish over regulated gas burners the cooking is so absolutely regular, and every element of uncer-General Directions—Boiling. 53 tainty so far eliminated, that the cook knows almost to a minute when the fish will be done. When small pieces of fish are wanted, it is far better to grill than to boil them. A salmon steak (see page 149) grilled and served with tartare sauce is a most appetizing dish ; but the same piece of fish wrapped in a cloth and boiled, tastes of nothing in particular, except, perhaps, a faint flavour of the wash-tub imparted by the cloth. The reason of this is obvious; in a slice or “steak” cut from a fish, there is nothing to prevent the water from drawing out the juices of the fish, as there would be in a whole fish, which is pro- tected by the skin ; and those juices accordingly come out into the waiter, where they are wasted. But if the fish is grilled, the juices are kept in by the sharp heat, and the fish is, as it ought to be, at once tasty and nutritious. In soup and stock making, the process of boiling differs essentially from that which has been just described, in this respect, that the meat, etc., to be boiled must be put in cold water, and heated very gently, so as to dissolve those juices of the meat which at boiling point are not more soluble than the white of a hard-boiled egg. Therefore, when the pot is ready for boiling, light the gas, and turn it not more than half full on ; let the water get gradually warm, and skim off all that Comes to the surface. If, when lighted, the gas is turned on too high, the water will quickly boil up, hardening the meat and preventing its juices from dissolving; the scum, instead of remaining up at the top, where it naturally rises on being gradually drawn from the meat by slow heat, will mix again with the water, and a poor, cloudy stock will be the result. When the pot has been well skimmed and the vegetables added, skim again until no more scum rises, then put on the lid and the soup will take care of itself without any trouble on the part of the cook, provided that it is kept just simmering and no more. As the burner, once regulated, cannot alter in height of flame or intensity of heat, there is54 The Art of Cooking by Gas. no fear that the pot will boil too fast at any time, as it would on a fire when that fire is replenished with coals, or cease boiling altogether when these coals have burned away more quickly than the cook anticipated. The absolute regularity of heat obtained by the use of gas goes far in making the soup not only good, but bright. Stocks. As stocks are indispensable for carrying out properly most culinary operations, a careful cook should never be without stock of some kind, which, except in the very hottest weather, can always be kept for at least a day or two. This will not add materially to expense, but, on the contrary, will be the, means of getting the utmost nourishment and usefulness from the articles of food employed, provided that the materials used are quite sweet and free from taint. A few directions are given here for the various stocks referred to in the composition of the dishes described here- after. The liquor in which salt beef, ham, or to?igue, has been boiled, if not too salt, comes in best for purees, pea soup, lentil soup, potato soup, etc. The liquor from a boiled fowl or rabbit, being white and inclined to gelatine, is useful for such white sauces as chaud- froid, bechamel, etc. The carcase of the bird, when sent down from the table, should be broken small, and simmered in the liquor for an hour, and this liquor strained and set aside for use. If but little flesh is left on the bones, it should be put in along with them ; but if, say, the flesh of half a fowl is left, pick it carefully off the bones and set it aside for croquettes, mayonnaise, or curry. The liquor from boiled fish can be treated in the same manner, the skin, head, and bones of the fish being put to boil in the liquor, then strained off. Any fish that remains is used in croquettes, brandade, or kedgeree.General Directions—Stocks. 55 The meat used in clarifying the best clear stock (see page 65) is also a valuable addition to the stock-pot. The bones and trimmings of cooked and uncooked joints, used of course quite sweet, the necks, legs, and livers of fowls, the scraped rind of ham and bacon, all go to enrich and flavour stock. The following are the principal stocks used in the making of soups and sauces :— Brown Stock.—Break small three pounds of bones, say from a roast joint of beef, and the legs, neck, and carcase of a fowl, and cut the liver in small pieces. Put these in the stock-pot with two quarts of cold water, a dozen peppercorns, and a salt-spoonful of salt. Set the pot on the gas turned half full on, and skim until the water boils. In the mean- time slice two onions, two carrots, and one turnip, add a little celery, a bunch of herbs (parsley, thyme, marjoram, and a bay-leaf), fry these in an ounce of butter or dripping until brown, add them to the stock. Put a spoonful or two of the stock in the saucepan to remove anything that may cling to the sides, and pour this back again into the stock- pot ; skim again until the stock is quite free from scum, then put on the lid and simmer gently for four hours. Strain, and set aside to cool. Remove the fat, pour out carefully to avoid disturbing the little sediment which is sure to settle at the bottom of the basin, and use. This stock will not be so clear as that made from fresh meat for clear soup, but for pure'es, etc., it is tasty and excellent. If, however, it is wanted clear, as for making aspic jelly, clarify like the con- somme (see page 65). White Stock is best made from the bones of veal, fowls, and rabbits, and is differently treated in this respect, that the vegetables must not be fried, so as not to colour the stock. To four pounds of veal bones, or three pounds of bones, and the carcase of a fowl or rabbit, add two onions (one of which has two cloves stuck in it), one56 The Art of Cooking by Gas. carrot and a small turnip, a dozen peppercorns, a salt- spoonful of salt, and a bunch of herbs. Pour on these two quarts of cold water, set the stock-pot on the gas turned half full on, skim very carefully, and simmer for three or four hours. Strain, cool, remove the fat, and use. Game Stock.—Butter the bottom of a stewpan, and lay on this half a pound of lean ham in thin slices; put in three pounds of bones and trimmings of game (cooked or uncooked), add two onions (sliced), and pour in a pint of cold water. Turn the gas full on under the pan, and boil briskly until the liquor looks brown and thick, like glaze; turn the gas down a little; put in three pints of boiling water, two carrots, one turnip, two cloves, a piece of celery, a bunch of herbs, twelve peppercorns, and a tea-spoonful of salt; skim with care, and simmer over the gas turned half full on for four hours. Strain, cool, remove the fat, and use. Fish Stock.—The court bouillon mentioned on page 67, for cooking salmon, makes an excellent fish stock ; if the bones and trimmings of the fish be put back in it after leaving the dining-room, and it is boiled for an hour, strained,'cooled, and freed from fat, it will be ready for use. The same rule applies to the various other kinds of fish. Should there be, however, no such fish stock in hand, the following recipe will supply the deficiency : Cleanse well, but do not skin, a pound of eels, a pound of skate, and a flounder. Any fish trimmings, such as the shells of lobster, the heads and shells of shrimps, the heads and bones of filleted fish, etc., can be added. Cut the fish in small pieces, and put them in two quarts of cold water, with a carrot, a small turnip, an onion stuck with two cloves, a bunch of herbs, ten peppercorns, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a table-spoonful of lemon juice. Set the saucepan on the gas turned half full on, bring slowly to boiling point, and skim thoroughly. Simmer for three hours, strain carefully on account of the small bones, and use when cold and free from fat.57 Genera l Directions— Gra vies. For brown fish stock, fry the vegetables first in an ounce of butter, put the pieces of fish in to colour, and when they have acquired a bright brown tint on both sides, pour the water in, add pepper and salt, skim, simmer, and finish as directed above. Any stock can be reduced or extended to meet different requirements. To reduce stock, boil it until sufficiently reduced over the gas turned full on, putting no lid on the saucepan. To extend it for such purposes as require only a light stock, add a little boiling water. Salt should be put in very moderate quantity in stock, as any deficiency can easily be supplied when the soup is made; but too salt a stock spoils the soup, and cannot be remedied. For making stocks, the use of a Papin's digester is greatly recommended, as being superior to the ordinary stock-pot. It will extract the juices of the meat and bones much more thoroughly, as will be easily ascertained by looking at them when taken out of the pot. The meat will be reduced to a mere colourless pulp, and the bones will look as though bleached, the gentle and prolonged simmer- ing in the digester having enabled the water to absorb all the nourishment they' were capable of yielding. Gravies. Beef, mutton, veal, and pork, generally yield a plentiful supply of gravy when properly roasted; but lamb does not give much, fowls but little, and game none to speak of, so that the deficiency must be supplied by a little made gravy. By “ made ” gravy, I do not mean stock, just browned and thickened with a little flour and butter, but gravy of a deep clear colour, such as would come from the meat itself, and flavoured to suit the various dishes it is served with. Beef gravy is made in the following manner : For one pint of gravy, take one pound of shin of beef, free from58 The Art of Cooking by Gas. skin and fat, or the bones and lean trimmings of a large joint; cut the meat in small pieces, and break the bones also in small pieces. Put in a stewpan a small sliced onion, a sliced carrot, a sprig of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and a bay leaf, tied together; put the bones and meat on these, and pour over them a quarter of a pint of water, just enough to keep them moist. Cover the stewpan, and set it on the gas turned on nearly full. When the whole begins to look brown and dry, reduce the gas to half full on, add a quarter of a pint of hot water (without disturbing the contents of the saucepan), and remove what little fat there may be. The gravy ought to look a deep clear brown. In five minutes more put in three-quarters of a pint of hot water, to make up the requisite quantity, allowing for boiling away. Add a pinch of salt and four crushed peppercorns; turn the gas three-quarter full on, and bring to boiling point; skim carefully, lower the gas again, and simmer gently for two hours. Strain the gravy, and set it aside, if not wanted for immediate use. It only requires warming, and can be served alone, or variously flavoured for poultry, game, etc. Mutton gravy is made in the same manner. The knuckle and trimmings of an uncooked leg of mutton will yield half a pint of good gravy, which can be reserved for other dishes, a well-roasted leg of mutton being usually very rich in gravy. Veal gravy is also obtained by the same process, using either the bones and trimmings of joints, or a pound of the knuckle, which is gelatinous, and makes rich gravy. The carcases and trimmings of cooked fowls, those of boned fowls and turkeys, the giblets, etc., will supply the gravy for poultry. For game, beef gravy is the best, and, whenever practi- cable, should have, added to it, a fumet or flavouring of the game it is to be served with. (See “ Roast Grouse.”)General Directions—Gravies. 59 These gravies and stocks being made and used sepa- rately, will enable the cook to vary the sauces by keeping each flavour distinct. Nothing is more cloying and more fatiguing to the palate than a certain set of average flavours, introduced in all dishes without discrimination and without change. Note.—There are twenty-four average ladlefuls in a pint of gravy. This is useful to remember when making gravy for a given number of persons. Glaze is clear gravy boiled down to the consistency of a thick syrup. As it will keep for some time, cooks can always have a supply at hand, keeping it in small covered jars. The trimmings from uncooked meat, the bones of roast joints, the meat with which soup has been clarified, can all be used for glaze. If it is made from fresh meat, the preference should be given to shin of beef, knuckle of veal, and the shanks of mutton, as they contain much gela- tine, which thickens the glaze. This should be treated as for beef gravy, strained, and set aside to cool. When the fat has been removed, boil the glaze rather fast over the gas (turned full on), taking care to stir it with a wooden spoon until it coats the spoon like cream. Turn it out into small jars, and keep ready for use. When wanted, place the jar in the bain-marie to dissolve the glaze, and apply it to joints, fowls, etc., with a brush, taking care that the things it is applied to are quite dry. Put it aside to set, or dry it in the hot oven when the joint is to be served hot; or again dissolve a little of it in a sauce to strengthen and improve it. A pint of clear gravy will not yield much more than a table-spoonful of glaze. No salt should be put in stock that is to be reduced for glaze. The boiling and dressing of vegetables is an extensive subject, and many pages would be required to deal with it exhaustively. Only general rules will be given here, and the dressing of most of the “ leading ” vegetables will be60 The Art of Cooking by Gas. found under their various headings in the menus given hereafter. Fresh vegetables, including new potatoes and all cab- bages, must be put in boiling ivater. Old potatoes and dried vegetables, such as haricot beans, peas, and lentils, should be put in cold water. Salt must always be added ; and in the case of green vegetables, half a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda is useful in preserving the colour. But though this is quite harmless, many prefer to omit it; and the great point to observe is that green vegetables shall not boil too fast. Many vegetables are simply boiled, and eaten with only the addition of pepper and salt and a little butter; others are more elaborately dressed. But in all cases they must be thoroughly drained before they are prepared for the table, or they will look unsightly and taste washy. Old potatoes should always be boiled in their skins, like new potatoes, if their flavour is to be fully developed. By peeling the potatoes before boiling them, that part is removed which lies just under the skin, and contains the most flavour and nourishment; moreover, the skin, if left on. protects the potato, and prevents it from boiling away. Indeed, according to Dr. Letheby, when potatoes are boiled in their skins, “ the waste is only three per cent., or half an ounce in a pound; whereas if they are peeled first, it is not less than fourteen per cent., or from two to three ounces in the pound.” (Vide Letheby on “ Food,” page 24.) Blanching or Barboiling.—In many instances vegetables such as onions, and other articles of food such as bacon, un- dergo a partial boiling before being put in the sauce or stock in which they are to be cooked. This is called blanching, and is done by putting the vegetables, etc., in boiling water and boiling them for a few minutes, according to directions. The object of this is generally to make onions, shallots, bacon, etc., milder in taste and more digestible. It is also doneGeneral Directions—Baking. 6i in the case of sorrel and spinach, in order to prepare them for chopping up. Macaroni and rice are similarly treated to remove the impurities from the surface, and prepare them for cooking in stock or rnilk. Almonds and pistachio nuts are also blanched, in order to remove their skin before using them. Baking. Baking can be done in the Parisienne roaster, the Charing Cross kitchener, and other kitcheners of a similar type, the temperature of which may be raised as high as 500 and 600 degrees, if necessary; but for most baking opera- tions a much more moderate temperature will be sufficient. Asbestos-lined baking sheets are provided, which prevent the heat from striking too fiercely from under, and steel plates which, fitting the upper shelf of the Charing Cross kitchener, reverberate the heat and ensure uniform baking. Full directions are given further on for the baking of bread and cakes, which require the greatest heat. The meat and game put in raised pies, or pies in dishes, should be partly cooked and cooled before it is put in, or the pastry will be done before the contents. Fruit, on the contrary, can be put in raw. In baking, especially puff pastry and souffles, the glass front is of very great help to the cook, for it is well known that opening the door of an oven is detrimental to fine pastry in process of baking. In fact, the mere slamming of an oven door is often sufficient to make puff paste drop flat and lose its lightness on the spot, so that nothing will make it rise again. Baked custards and milk puddings will require a more moderate oven than pastry, and a longer time in baking, for if they are baked too quickly the milk will turn watery in the dish, while the top will burn. A well-baked custard should present a creamy, golden appearance, cut firm, and leave the dish dry. For meringues, and such deli- cate things, the oven must be still cooler, so as not to make them turn colour. Macaroons only want the oven just hot,The Art of Cooking by Gas. 62 and can be done after any other pastry has been taken out and the gas turned off, leaving only the flash lights on. Coffee Roasting. Fill the coffee roaster up to the centre rod, not more, to allow for swelling and shaking. Light the burners under the roaster and set it going. In a few minutes take up the roaster, shake it well, and put it back ; take it up again several times, opening it occasionally to see that the coffee is roasting evenly and not too quickly. When different coffees are roasted for blending, they should be roasted separately, as the time required varies according to the different sorts. Thus, Mocha will take from twelve to fifteen minutes to roast, whilst Plantation coffee wants nearly thirty minutes. Experience only will tell the cook when the coffee is done, as it will then have acquired a rich brown colour and a fully-developed aroma. Turn the coffee out into a colander, and shake out the husks. It is then ready for use; and the sooner it is used the better it will be, as coffee loses its aroma rapidly. Roasted coffee, if kept at all, should be kept in a tightly-corked bottle. If it has been kept a few days, its aroma can be revived and improved by warming the berries thoroughly in an iron ladle or shallow pan over the gas, taking care not to burn them. Grind while hot and use at once. (For coffee making see “Breakfasts,” page 233).63 MENUS. The following menus are practical illustrations of the process of cooking by gas, and of the certainty, facility, and cleanliness with which it can be carried out. The dishes given are such as will be, with the aid of apparatus in which the gas is properly governed, well within the capabilities of an intelligent good plain cook. The directions for their preparation have been carefully studied, and the method of using the apparatus, which has been specially devised for home cookery, is fully described. It will be seen that the processes of roasting, grilling, frying, boiling, and baking, are all called into use in the composition of the menus. Time, measures, and weights, have all been ascertained by practical experiment; so that if the directions are followed well cooked and palatable food will be obtained at a minimum of trouble and cost, certainty of success and clean- liness will be secured in the kitchen, and “ Good digestion will wait on appetite, and health on both.” Dinners for the Four Seasons. To execute the four following menus, apparatus will be necessary which includes two roasters, one or two ovens, a large griller, a bain-marie, six or eight rings for boiling, a plate warmer, and a water-heater. These may be combined, or used separately so as to suit the internal arrangements of the kitchen and the space available, and to obtain the greatest efficiency and convenience, as shown in the descrip- tion of the kitcheners. In these dinners the quantities given are for twenty-fourThe Art of Cooking by Gas. 64 people. They are intended to be served “h. la Russe,” that is to say, the dishes are not put on the table, which is only decorated with fruit and flowers. The dishes are handed round, those which require carving being dealt with at a side table. MENU FOR APRIL. Twenty four guests. POTAGE. Consommd & la Royale. POISSONS. Saumon. Sauce Hollandaise. Queues d'Ecrevisses a la Bordelaise. ENTREES. Chaudfroid de Cailles. Ris de Veau Frits. Sauce Tomate. RELEVf. Quartier d'Agneau. Sauce ci la Menthe. Salade. Petits Pois. Pommes Nouvelles. ROT. Poulets Printaniers. ENTREMETS. Savarin aux Fruits. Choux k la Cr6me. Gel6e k la Russe. BONNE BOUCHE. Petits Souffles au Parmesan. SOUP. Clear Soup with Royal Custard. FISH. Salmon. Dutch Sauce. Cray-fish. Bordelaise Sauce. ENTREES. Chaudfroid of Quails. Fried Sweetbreads. Tomato Sauce. REMOVE. Forequarter of Lamb. Mint Sauce. Salad. Green Peas. New Potatoes. ROAST. Spring Chickens. PUDDINGS. Savarin with Fruit. Choux garnished with Cream. Russian Jelly. SAVOURY. Parmesan Soufflds. Consomme a la Royale. (Clear Soup.) To Make Three Quarts of Soup.—In a very clean sauce- pan, or soup-pot which has been freed from grease by scouring with sand and soap, put six pounds of shin of beef, or half beef and half veal, if preferred, free from skin and fat, and cut in pieces about two inches square; break theDinners for the Four Seasons—Aerie. 65 bones small and remove the marrow, which must not be used, or the soup will be cloudy. To every pound of beef allow one pint of cold water, then put in one pint more j thus : six pounds of meat, seven pints of water. Put the saucepan on the gas, turned on only half full so as to heat very gradually, skim carefully, add salt; skim again and again as the scum rises; then add thirty peppercorns, two large carrots, two small turnips, a little celery, a bouquet of herbs, a large onion stuck with eight cloves. Skim again, and, when quite free from scum, simmer gently for six hours. As long as the pot wants-skimming, it has to be on one of the burners nearest to the cook, but afterwards it can be put out of the way on one of the further burners, and wants no more care than an occasional look to see that it is not boiling too fast. The gas should be just high enough to keep the stock simmering, and no more. When done, strain it carefully into a deep basin, and set aside for use the next day. The meat, bones, and vegetables strained off will go to the stock-pot, a Papin’s digester by preference, and make excellent secondary stock for thick soups, etc. To Clarify the Soup.—Take off as much of the fat as can be removed with a spoon, then dip the corner of a clean cloth in boiling water and wash with it the top of the stock, which is quite set, until entirely free from grease. Put in a saucepan: the stock, an onion stuck with cloves, two carrots, two turnips, and (for three quarts of stock) one pound and a half of raw beef scraped finely with a sharp knife, the whites and crushed shells of three eggs. (All these things will be useful afterwards to stew down for secondary stock.) Put the saucepan on the gas turned three-quarter full on, and whisk briskly until the stock boils {not after), then reduce the gas to half full on, let the stock simmer for about half an hour. Put a spoonful of cold water in it once or twice, it will help in clearing it. If there is no jelly-stand available, put a chair upside down on66 The Art or< Cooking by Gas. another and‘tie a clean towel firmly by the corners to the legs of the chair with string. Under this place a basin, see that it can be moved in and out freely, and pour through the cloth about a quart of boiling water; remove this and replace the basin. Take the stock, and with a large spoon put some of the scraped beef, etc., in the bottom of the cloth ; then pour the stock slowly in the towel, being care- ful not to disturb the sediment, which should settle in the hollow of the cloth. When all the stock has run through remove the basin, put another one in its place, and pour the soup through again very gently. Repeat this until the soup is quite bright; twice is generally sufficient, but it can be put through three or four times if necessary, though it must be borne in mind that straining too many times makes the soup poor. The scraped beef, egg-shells, etc., act as a filter. When quite clear the soup only requires warming ; so, if it is made the day before it is wanted, and clarified next morning, it can stand aside until a quarter of an hour before dinner, enabling the cook to give her attention to other matters. It can be served with vegetables stamped very small and boiled in a little salt water, with the savoury custard called Royale (see following recipe), with quenelles or with profiteroiles filled with forcemeat. Royal Custal'd. {For Clear Soup.) Well grease a gallipot. Beat up the yolks of three eggs with nearly a tumblerful of clear soup, season with pepper and salt. Put this in the gallipot, cover with a greased paper and stand it in boiling water, let it simmer for about twenty minutes. It will turn out quite stiff when cold, and can be then cut into slices and stamped into pretty shapes, stars, crescents, etc. Salmon. Unless a whole salmon is boiled, choose a piece cut fromDinners for the Four Seasons—April. 67 a short thick fish, and weighing about six pounds ; scale and cleanse it carefully. Put in the kettle enough cold water to cover the fish, adding to each quart of water two table- spoonfuls of French vinegar and a dessert-spoonful of salt, a carrot, an onion, and a turnip sliced, a few sticks of celery, a leek, a bunch of herbs (parsley, thyme, and a bay leaf or two), and eight or ten peppercorns. Put this over the gas and boil up, skimming carefully; when boiling and free from scum, put the fish on the strainer and plunge it in the kettle; some scum will presently rise and must be removed. ,As the water begins to boil again reduce the height of the gas, so that the fish only simmers, for if cooked too quickly the outside will break and the inside will not be done. Allow for thick fish, ten minutes to each pound ; for thin fish, eight minutes, reckoning from the time the water boils again. So the piece of salmon mentioned above as weighing six pounds will take an hour’s gentle simmering. When ready to serve, see if any more scum has risen to the surface, and having taken this off, turn the gas out, lift the strainer out with the fish on it, drain it well by resting for a minute or two crosswise on the kettle and slide carefully on to a very hot dish covered with a neatly-folded serviette, garnish with green curly parsley, prawns, and slices of lemon. Serve with sauce hollandaise, and send a dish of sliced cucumber up to the table with it. Sauce Hollandaise. The real Dutch sauce is nothing more than the best fresh butter obtainable, heated until liquid. Put the butter in an enamelled saucepan, and set it on the gas turned half-full on, so that it does not melt too quickly and does not boil. When half melted remove the saucepan from the fire; it will retain enough heat to finish melting the butter; stir gently with a wooden spoon until quite melted and smooth, remove any scum that may rise to the surface,68 The Art of Cooking by Gas. add a little fine salt, a pinch of white pepper, and a squeeze of lemon ; beat lightly with a fork, and send up in a hot sauce tureen. This is excellent with salmon, but some people may object to the appearance of the dissolved butter. A more elaborate recipe is given here, which, in appearance as well as taste, leaves nothing to be desired. Put a quarter of a pint of French vinegar, three bay leaves, and a dozen crushed peppercorns in a small enamelled saucepan or a pipkin, and stand it in boiling water; let it reduce it to about half the quantity ; strain it. Put four yolks of eggs in a saucepan, add the vinegar, and set the pan in the bain- marie ; stir round gently and add gradually four ounces of fresh butter; take care it does not boil, or it will curdle; add a little salt to taste. When it is quite smooth it is ready. This sauce is very delicate (see page 104, “Merin- gues,” for using up whites of eggs). Ecrevisses k la Bordelaise. Take fifty crayfish and put them in a deep pan under a running tap for several hours, to clear them of sand. Remove the gut from the centre fin of the tail. Shell the fish and pound the shells with four ounces of fresh butter, the crumb of a French roll, and two or three anchovies. Put this in a stewpan with an onion stuck with cloves, a dozen button mushrooms, one tea-spoonful of salt, one of pepper, and a quart of fish stock (see page 56). Put the stewpan over the gas turned half full on, and simmer gently for two hours. Strain this liquor. Chop up finely three shallots and one onion, fry them lightly in butter, add a table-spoon- ful of flour, mix smoothly, and when brown add the liquor; pound the meat taken from the bodies with a little butter, reserving the tails, which are left whole; add the pounded meat to the liquor, with a table-spoor.A1 of French vinegar and a wine-glassful of white wine. Mix all these ingredients and heat them thoroughly, but do not let them boil. FryDinners for the Four Seasons—April. 69 some round croutons (see page 50), cut with a rose pastry- cutter. Five minutes before serving put the tails in a small frying basket, or a strainer, and plunge them in the sauce; as soon as they are white and opaque they are done. Lift them out, strain the sauce, and dish up by putting two tails on a crouton on each plate, and pouring a little sauce on the top. Chaudfroid of Quails. Take a dozen quails and bone them, but leave the feet on ; farce them with the farce given below, squeezed through a forcing-bag, and pat the birds into good shape; butter some small bands of paper and tie them with string, one round each quail. Light the gas of the oven for ten minutes before beginning to cook the birds. Melt a piece of butter in a saute pan, arrange the quails on their backs in this, and place on the breast of each a little piece of fat bacon. Put the pan in the oven and cover it with a piece of buttered paper. In fifteen minutes the birds will be done ; put them aside to cool. In the meantime, prepare the sauce as follows : Put in a stewpan a pint and a half of aspic jelly (see below), half a pint of tomato sauce {see page 73), one ounce of glaze, and two table-spoonfuls of sherry. . Mix thoroughly over the gas and let the sauce boil to reduce it, skimming it as necessary. When it is thick enough to coat the spoon dipped in it, take it off the fire, pass it through a tammy cloth, and put it aside to cool, but not so much as to get set'. When ready, remove the bands of paper, cut the quails in halves with a knife dipped in hot water, spread the sauce over the outer part of each half quail, and leave them on a dish to set. Warm some aspic jelly, just enough to make it barely liquid, and cover the quails with it. Put them again aside, and, when quite cold and set, half fill some paper cases (cutlet shape) with chopped-up aspic jelly, put one half quail on each of these and put some aspic jelly round. For this purpose it is best to put the choppedThe Art of Cooking by Gas. 7o jelly in a forcing-bag with a plain end pipe. The quails can then be put in the ice safe until wanted. They are quite ready to send up. Farce for Quails.—Cut in small pieces one pound of raw lean veal, half pound of calf’s liver, and half a pound of fat bacon. Put these in a stewpan with two ounces of butter, an onion chopped up small, a little parsley and thyme, two bay leaves, a little pepper and salt. Turn on the gas and fry these things for five or six minutes, shaking them well together. Turn them out into a mortar and pound them while hot, then rub them through a wire sieve. Bind this mixture with the yolk of two raw eggs and add a dozen button mushrooms, well washed, peeled, and chopped up finely, two or three truffles if possible, also chopped up finely. When well mixed and smooth the farce is ready, and the quails can be filled with it by means of a forcing-bag and plain pipe. Should the farce be too stiff to be worked easily, a little, very little, aspic jelly can be added to it. Aspic Jelly.—A very good stock, such as used for clear soup, is not necessary for aspic jelly ; indeed, if the jelly is only wanted as a garnish, hot water can be used for making it; but the following recipe will be found both tasty and ornamental. Take a quart of stock made from bones, or shin of beef, or half beef, half veal, and quite free from fat. Put this in a stewpan with two ounces of the best French gelatine, a bunch of herbs (bay leaf, parsley, thyme, marjoram, a sprig of each, tied together), an onion stuck with three cloves, a medium size carrot, a stick of celery, a dessert-spoonful of salt, twenty peppercorns, ten allspice, a dessert-spoonful of tarragon vinegar and a table-spoonful of French vinegar, a wine-glassful of sherry or Madeira, the shells and whites of two eggs. Put this over the gas turned nearly full on, and whisk briskly until it boils ; then let it boil, without stirring it any more, for five minutes. ReduceDinners for the Four Seasons—April. 7i the gas to half full on, just enough to keep the jelly hot, and let it stand about twenty minutes. Run a quart of boiling water through a jelly-bag into a basin. Remove this, and put another basin in its place. Turn out the gas, lift the saucepan off, and pour its contents very carefully through Fig. 23.—Forcing-bag and Pipes. the bag. When about half a pint of jelly has run through take up the basin, replacing it quickly by another one, and pour this half pint again in the jelly-bag. This will ensure its being quite clear. Should the jelly, however, not run out quite limpid, it can be passed through the jelly- bag again until clear. If it does not all run through, having cooled too quickly, as it does sometimes in cold weather, take up what remains in the bag and melt it; then pour it72 The Art of Cooking by Gas. again through the bag, taking care to remove the first basin and put another one in its place, in case this second lot should not run so clear as the first. Set this jelly on ice to cool, and when about to use it for garnishing the quails, chop it up finely and squeeze it through a forcing-bag with plain pipe end. This is by far the most cleanly, convenient, and economical way of filling and garnishing the cutlet cases. The above directions are for making a quart of jelly, and can be increased according to requirements. Taking into consideration the jelly used in making the chaudfroid sauce and glazing the quails, as well as that required for filling and garnishing the cutlet cases, two quarts of jelly will be sufficient for the above dish of quails. When the jelly is required quite stiff for cutting into blocks, stars, etc., increase the quantity of gelatine to two and a half, or even three ounces per quart. Forcing-bags and pipes are so useful in simplifying many culinary operations, and dealing with farces, ragouts, jellies, creams, etc., that every cook should have them. They can be bought of any good ironmonger, with a set of pipes of various sizes, with both plain and ornamental ends. They are made of strong coutil, and, once obtained, can be reproduced in various sizes to suit all requirements. {See Fig. 23, “ Forcing-bag and Pipes.”) Fried Sweetbreads. Take four large sweetbreads and lay them in cold water for two hours, then put them in boiling water to which a little salt has been added, and blanch them for eight or ten minutes. They are done when a skewer can be easily.passed through them. Drain them, put them by to cool between two dishes, and, when cold, cut them in slices about half an inch thick; flour these lightly, cover them with egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat. About half a dozen pieces- in the frying-basket at a time will be enough, so asD/nnfks for the Four Seasons—April. 73 not to cool the fat too much. Each batch takes about three minutes to fry. Drain the sweetbreads on a hot cloth and serve them, one or two pieces on each plate, with a tiny sprig of fried parsley and ladleful of tomato sauce, i he ends and trimmings can go in the farce for the quails. The sweetbreads can be got ready up to being egg-and- bread-crumbed in the course of the day, and, this being done, will be ready for frying when wanted. Tomato Sauce. Cut twelve fine tomatoes open and put them in a stew- pan with two onions stuck with six cloves, three bay leaves, six crushed peppercorns, a tea-spoonful of salt, a sprig of thyme, a sprig of parsley, a small stick of celery, a shallot. Put the stewpan over the gas turned half-full on, and stew gently for half an hour. Rub through a fine wire sieve and return the pulp to one of the saucepans in the bain-marie, with a pint of brown sauce. Let it simmer for twenty minutes, and serve. Brown sauce is useful in many instances, and as it will keep well for a few days it had better be made beforehand, so as to be ready for use. To make a quart of it, fry three ounces of flour in three ounces of butter until it is of a rich brown colour, add a quart of stock made from the bones of cooked joints and flavoured with vegetables (see page 55). Let the sauce simmer gently to reduce it until it looks creamy, and pass it through a tammy to smooth it. Forequarter of Lamb. To roast a forequarter of lamb weighing about twelve pounds, heat the roaster for ten minutes, put two large spoonfuls of good dripping in the pan to dissolve, spit the joint securely, and start the turnspit. Baste the joint thoroughly with the melted fat, and close the roaster. Leave the gas full on for ten minutes, then lower it to half full on,74 The Art or- Cooking by Gas. and, having again basted the meat, leave it to cook for two hours, occasionally looking at it through the glass of (he lid, which need only be opened when the meat requires basting. Twenty minutes before it is done turn the gas on nearly full to finish browning the meat. This makes up two hours and a half, irrespective of the ten minutes allowed for heating the roaster. If using a kitchener of the Charing Cross type, allow the same time, but baste more frequently, and turn the meat over once or twice to ensure even roasting. Gravy and mint sauce in tureens and a dressed salad are the fitting accompaniments of lamb. As lamb gives but little gravy it will be well to have ready some gravy made from mutton (see “ Gravies,” page 57) to add to that of the lamb, well freed from fat, of course. Mint Sauce.—Pick and wash the mint, and chop, very finely, enough of it to fill half a pint. Put it in a basin and sprinkle over it three ounces of castor sugar, or, if preferred, two ounces of the best Demerara sugar. Let it stand a quarter of an hour, then pour upon it three-quarters of a pint of French vinegar and a quarter of a pint of cold water. This sauce is better for being made at least two hours before using. Salad.—Prepare three young lettuces and three endives, by cutting off the outside leaves and stalk. If the salad has come directly from the garden, it is far better not to wash it, but to wipe it carefully with a dry cloth. If, however, it has come through the market, it should be washed quickly and dried as thoroughly as possible by being shaken, first in a wire-basket, and then in a cloth, which will absorb the moisture. Do not cut it, but break it in pieces, about two inches square, not smaller. This must not be done until just before the salad is wanted, or the edges will turn brown and the crispness will be lost. Chop finely enough spring onions to fill a dessert-spoon, and enough chives to fill aDinners for the Four Seasons—April. 75 tea-spoon, a small bunch of fresh tarragon, and the same of chervil. Put the salad in the bowl, sprinkling some of the chopped herbs among the leaves, cut some slices of beet- root and stamp them into pretty shapes with a vegetable cutter ; add these to the salad. For the dressing : Put in a basin a dessert-spoonful of table salt, or celery salt, a tea- spoonful of white pepper, a dessert-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, and a table-spoonful of French vinegar. Stir until the salt is quite dissolved, then add a quarter of a pint of the best Lucca oil, stirring round quickly until the oil and vinegar are thoroughly mixed. (Two table-spoonfuls of cream, or the yolk of a new-laid egg can be added, but are not indispensable.) On no account must sugar be put in salad. When the dressing is quite smooth pour it on the salad and toss lightly so that the dressing is evenly dis- tributed, and serve. The proverb which says salad wants a madman to mix it, had better be considered as an exploded notion, for if the salad is too violently shaken it will be bruised and spoiled. Green Peas. Shell enough freshly-gathered peas to fill two quart measures. If not required for immediate use put them in a basin and cover them with a damp cloth; however, do not shell them any sooner than is absolutely necessary. Put in a saucepan three quarts of water and a dessert-spoonful of salt, a'whole onion, a lettuce, and a sprig of mint, tied together. Set the saucepan on the gas turned full on, and bring quickly to boiling-point. Put the peas in and cook them for twenty-five to thirty minutes. Remove the onion, lettuce, and mint, strain the peas (not throwing away the water in which they have boiled, as it will be useful for making green pea soup. Put the peas in a hot dish, with two ounces of fresh butter cut in small pieces and distributed all over, sprinkle a salt-spoonful of white pepper over all, and serve.The Art of Cooking by Gas. 76 New Potatoes. To have these in perfection they should, when prac- ticable, come directly from the garden and be used at once, as the air very soon hardens their delicate skin and takes away their freshness. Wash and drain six pounds of potatoes. Put in a sauce- pan enough water to cover the potatoes, and a table- spoonful of salt. Set the saucepan over the gas turned full on, and bring quickly to boiling point. Put the potatoes in and cook for thirty minutes. When they are done strain them and peel "them by rubbing the skin off with a cloth ; they must not be touched with a knife. Put a slice of butter in each dish, which has been made very hot, and roll the potatoes well into it, so that they shall be evenly buttered. Serve hot. Spring Chickens. Two pairs of spring chickens will, on being carved, give a nice piece to each of the twenty-four guests, each bird being divided thus: Two wings, two thighs, the breast cut in two pieces. The legs and back which are left will be useful for a variety of dishes, being either grilled for break- fast, or minced for making chicken cutlets, coquilles, etc., or warmed in bechamel, curried, etc. The bones can be stewed down for gravy, or put in the stock-pot as a tasty addition to soup. The chickens being ready trussed for roasting, light the gas in the roaster (or the roasting chamber of the kitchener) for ten minutes. Put a couple of spoonfuls of good beef dripping in the pan. Spit the fowls neck to neck (in the roaster), and start the turnspit. Allow five minutes with the gas full on, the fowls being well basted with the melted fat, thirty minutes with the gas half full on, and ten minutes with it half full on again, to finish browning, making a total of forty-five minutes. As the gravy coming from the chickensDinners for the Four Seasons—April. 77 will be probably insufficient, mix with it, when it has been freed from fat, one pint of good clear beef gravy (see page 57). Pour a little of this on each plate, and lay a sprig of fresh green watercress by the side of the piece of chicken. On no account should the gravy be thickened. Mem.—No bread sauce with spring chickens.. Two chickens will roast in each Parisienne roaster, but if the Charing Cross kitchener is used for roasting them the two pairs can be put in at once and roasted together. Savarin aux Fruits. Dry and sift one pound and a half of fine flour into a pan. Work, in a small basin, one ounce of French yeast with a tea-spoonful of sugar to soften it, then add a quarter of a pint of milk mixed with half its own quantity of water, both tepid, add about a quarter of the flour to this, and work it into a small ball of dough. Make a hole in the flour and put the dough in, covering it with the flour. Put a cloth over the pan and stand it in a warm place for about twenty minutes. Get ready half a pint of warm milk, nine eggs, three-quarters of a pound of fresh butter, a tea-spoonful of salt, three ounces of castor sugar, and a quarter of a pound of almonds blanched and shredded. Break an egg in a small cup, to make sure it is quite fresh; put it in the pan and work it with the hand into the flour and dough, add half the milk, continue mixing ; add another egg, mix again, always with the right, hand, and beating the paste quickly and lightly, drawing the fingers through it to mix it well. Melt the salt in a little of the milk left, add it; do the same for the sugar. Turn the mixture out on to a slab, or pastry board, add three-quarters of a pound of butter beaten to a cream, continue beating and adding the eggs one by one. In about twenty minutes it will be noticed that the paste does not cling any more to the fingers or the slab. It is then ready. Butter three turban moulds by78 The Art of Cooking by Gas. brushing them with dissolved butter, divide the shredded almonds between them. Half fill the moulds with the mix- ture. Peel a potato, and, wrapping it in a piece.of buttered paper, put it in the centre opening of the mould, to prevent the mixture from running into it when it rises ; tie also a piece of buttered paper round each mould so that it is as high again as the mould. Leave the savarins standing in a warm place to rise. Light the gas in the oven of the kitchener for twenty minutes. Bake the savarins for about three-quarters of an hour, until they are of a pretty brown colour. Draw them out, and, removing the papers, turn them out on to a pastry rack standing in a dish, and while hot pour upon them the boiling syrup given below. See that they are evenly soaked, and leave them to drain. Put each savarin on a dish, ornament the top with dried cherries and angelica, arranging alternately half a cherry and two pieces of angelica cut leaf shape, so as to form a wreath. Fill the middle with a compote of preserved fruit, and pour upon the fruit a little syrup flavoured with the same liquor as that which has been used for soaking the savarins. Serve warm. Synip for Savarins.—Melt two pounds of loaf sugar in three pints of water, let it boil until reduced to about two pints, skimming it carefully, add a quarter of a pint of liquor—maraschino, noyau, etc.—according to taste, and use. This quantity of syrup will be sufficient for the three savarins, taking into account that which is used for soaking them and also for pouring on the fruit. Any preserved fruit, cherries, apricots, peaches, pine-apple, etc., can be used for the centre of the savarins—the smaller fruit left whole, the larger cut into dice about half an inch square. A peach, coloured with a little saffron and carmine, and having an aigrette of angelica leaves, can be put in the middle, and will look very ornamental. All this should be prepared in the course of the day so as to be ready for use.Dinners for the Four Seasons—April. 79 Choux a la Gr£me. Put a pint of water in a stewpan with half a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of castor sugar, a dessert-spoonful of yellow rind of lemon finely grated, and a pinch of salt. Put the pan on the gas turned full on. When the water boils and the butter is quite dissolved, add gradually half a pound of fine sifted flour, stirring quickly until it is well mixed and smooth, and thick enough to leave the sides of the pan easily. Reduce the gas to half-full on and let the paste cook for twelve minutes. Turn the gas out and stir into the mixture six whole eggs, one at a time, stirring well after each egg has been put in, until the whole is well mixed and smooth. Put this mixture in a forcing-bag with a plain pipe (rather large in the opening). Press it out on to a baking sheet in pieces a little larger than a walnut, and not too near each other, as they swell very much in cooking; cut off each piece with a knife as it is forced through the pipe. If no forcing-bag is available, flour the pastry slab, put the paste on it, and cut it in small pieces, and give these the shape of an egg. Beat up a whole egg, and, with a pastry brush, glaze the top of the choux. Light the gas in the oven of the kitchener for fifteen minutes. Bake the choux for twenty-five to thirty minutes. Look at them once or twice to make sure they are browning evenly. They should be only a light brown ; if they appear to turn colour too quickly, lower the gas a little. The choux being done, turn out the gas, bring them out and put them to cool on a pastry rack. When cool make a horizontal incision in the side of each chou, and, with a forcing bag and plain pipe, fill them with whipped cream flavoured with vanilla essence and sweetened with castor sugar in the proportion of four ounces to one quart of cream. Make an icing flavoured with noyau, maraschino, etc., according to taste (see below). Spread it on the choux, leave them to dry, and they are ready. They can be further ornamented by having some8o The Art of Cooking by Gas. chopped-up pistachio and a crystallized cherry put on the top before the icing is quite set; or with a little whipped cream forced through a rose pipe and put on after the icing is dry. Icing for Choux.—Put in a slewpan one pound of icing sugar, four table-spoonfuls of warm water, and flavour with a table-spoonful of maraschino, kirsch, or noyau. Stir this over the gas turned low, so as just to warm it, and use at once. If vanilla is not used for flavouring the cream, orange- flower water can be substituted, and the icing flavoured with the same. The icing can be coloured a delicate pink, or green, by adding to it, before using, a few drops of carmine or sap green. Gelee a la Russe. To make two quarts of jelly, peel eight lemons very thinly, taking only the yellow rind off. Squeeze and strain the juice. Melt a pound of loaf sugar in two quarts of water over the gas turned full on, add the lemon-juice and rind, a small piece of cinnamon, six cloves, and three ounces of the best French gelatine. Whisk together until it boils up, turn the gas out, and let the jelly rest for half an hour. Pour a quart of boiling water through a jelly bag, remove the basin and replace it by another. Pour the jelly in the bag and see if it comes through quite clear. If not, take it up and pour it through again until quite limpid. Add half a pint of liquor (kirsch is the best to use for this purpose, being colourless) and a wine-glassful of brandy. This jelly can be all one colour, or can be divided in two, or even three, differently-coloured layers, thus : one part coloured with a very little carmine, one with sap green, and the third left colourless. Have ready some broken ice in a large pan. Put one-third of the jelly, coloured as directed above, in a basin. Stand the basin on the ice, and whip briskly until quite firm and frothy. Take three moulds, and pour in each enough jelly to fill it about one-third. Put the moulds onDinners for the Four Seasons—April. 81 ice to set. Whip another part of the jelly, repeat the opera- tion with it, let it set, and finish with the third colour, putting the moulds away on ice until wanted. Then dip them in warm water, wipe off the water with a cloth, turn out on the dish and serve. Petits Souffles au Parmesan. Melt two ounces of butter in a small saucepan over the gas turned only half full on, and mix with it two ounces of fine sifted flour very smoothly; add gradually half a pint of milk, stirring until smooth. Turn the gas to three-quarter full on, and bring the mixture to boiling point, or it will taste pasty. When it leaves the sides of the saucepan easily • it is done. Turn it out into a basin to cool. Break four eggs, separating the yolks from the whites, and grate four ounces of Parmesan cheese ; also prepare two'dozen little paper cases by oiling them outside and drying them in the warm oven until they are quite stiff. When the mixture is cold stir into it the four yolks of eggs, one at a time, add the cheese gradually, mix well; whisk the whites of egg till very stiff, and stir them lightly in. Put the mixture in a forcing- bag with plain pipe end, and half fill the little cases ; put them on a baking sheet in the oven of the kitchener, which has been lighted for ten minutes, and bake for twelve to fifteen minutes. Send to the table at once. This mixture can be baked also in one large mould for a luncheon dish, but it would want then thirty to thirty-five minutes’ baking, the top being covered with a piece of buttered paper when half done to prevent its browning too rapidly. G82 The Art of Cooking by Gas. MENU FOR JULY. Twenty-four guests. POTAGE. Queue de Boe.tf. POISSONS. Turbot. Sauce Homard. Blanchaille. ENTRIES. GSufs de Pluviers en Aspic. Eilets de Boeuf. Sauce B6arnai.se. Pomraes Sautdes. RELEVE. Jambon, Sauce Mrulere. F6ves. ROT. Oisons. ENTRliMETS. Pudding d’Ananas. • Nougats 3, la Creme. BONNE BOUCHE. Pailles au Parmesan. SOUP. Ox-tail. FISH. Turbot. Lobster Sauce. Whitebait. ENTREES. Plovers' Eggs in Aspic. Fillets of Beef. B&irnaise Sauce. Potatoes Saut6es. REMOVE. Ham with Madeira Sauc •. Windsor Beans. ROAST. Goslings. PUDDINGS. Pine Apple Pudding. Nougats with Cream. SAVOURY. Cheese Straws. Ox-tail Soup. Take a large ox-tail which has been hung for a day or two. Divide it neatly in small pieces. Place these in a quart of cold water with a pinch of salt, and set the sauce- pan or pot on the gas turned three-quarter full on. When it boils up, remove the saucepan, strain off the water, wash and dry the pieces of tail, return them to the saucepan with three and a half quarts of stock, cold, and quite free from fat (see page 55), two medium-sized carrots, a turnip, three onions—one of which is stuck with six cloves—a leek, two or three sticks of celery, thirty peppercorns, a dessert-spoon- ful of salt, and a bunch of herbs (parsley, thyme, marjoram, and bay-leaf, tied together). Turn the gas half full on, and let the stock come up to boiling-point very slowly, skimmingDinners for the Four Seasons—-July. 83 carefully until quite free from scum, not allowing it at any time to boil fast. Let it simmer for four hours. Then strain it off, and stand it aside to cool. The soup having been thus prepared on the day previous to that on which it is wanted, will stand in the larder until the morning, when it can be clarified as indicated on page 65. It will then be ready for heating just before serving. For the garnish, peel and cut with a pea-shape vegetable-scoop enough carrots and turnips to fill a half pint. Put these in a small saucepan with half a pint of water or weak stock, a pinch of salt, and a very small piece of sugar. Set the saucepan on the gas turned half full on, and boil the vegetables till tender. They will take but a short time, as they must be well done but firm, so as not to break and get shapeless. A few minutes more or less will be needed according to their age and freshness. Strain them, and put them in the hot soup tureen. Return the liquor to the saucepan, and warm in it the best meaty parts of the tail cut in neat pieces, adding a little more stock, if necessary, to cover them. As soon as they are warm, strain, put them in the tureen, pour in the hot soup, and serve. Turbot. Choose a thick fish weighing about six pounds, and having moist rosy gills and bright eyes, and the underpart a rich creamy white. Clean and wash it with the greatest care, rubbing it with salt to remove the slime, and washing this off with plenty of water several times renewed, without, however, leaving the fish in soak. Trim it, but do not remove the fins. Put enough water in the turbot kettle to cover the fish, add salt in the proportion of a table-spoonful to each quart of water. Set the kettle on the gas turned full on. Rub the fish on both sides, especially the white side, with a cut lemon, to whiten it, and make a cut two or three inches long, with a sharp knife, in the thickest part of the dark side of the fish, along the back-The Art of Cooking by Gas. 84 bone. This prevents the skin on the white side from split- ting, and keeps the fish flat. When the water boils, put the fish on the strainer in the kettle, the dark side downwards, and let the water boil up again, skimming carefully. When free from scum, cover with a buttered paper, and reducing the gas to half full on, cook from thirty to thirty-five minutes, according to the thickness of the fish. When done, take it up and drain it for five minutes. Dish on a folded serviette, the white side uppermost, rubbing it with a very little fresh butter; garnish with small bunches of parsley and lemons cut in quarters, and serve with lobster sauce. Note.—When turbot comes from the table, and as soon as the cook can spare the time to attend to it, all the fish that remains should be carefully picked off and set aside for croquettes, kedgeree, etc. The bones and skin, which are very rich in gelatine, should be put back in the liquor in which the fish was cooked, and the fish kettle set on the gas turned three-quarter full on. After boiling for thirty to forty minutes, the liquor can be strained and put aside for fish stock. It will set to a firm jelly in the basin, and in hot weather should be used the next day. Lobster Sauce.—Take a large freshly-boiled hen lobster, break the shell carefully, and take all the meat out, cut it in small square pieces. Pound the coral with double its quantity of fresh butter and a very little cayenne pepper, and put it aside. Put the broken shell in a saucepan with a pint and a quarter of cold water, an onion cut in slices, six peppercorns, a bay-leaf, a sprig of parsley, and one of thyme. Set this on the gas turned three-quarter full on, and boil for half an hour; strain the liquor. Melt four ounces of butter in a saucepan over the gas, and mix smoothly with it four ounces of fine flour, add the strained liquor, stirring constantly until creamy looking, put in a little salt, add enough of the lobster butter to colour the sauce a bright red. As there is cayenne pepper with theDinners for the Four Seasons—July. 85 butter, there will probably be no need of adding any to the sauce. Put in the cut-up meat and allow the sauce to get hot, but do not let it boil. Last of all, and just before serving, squeeze in about a tea-spoonful of lemon juice, and mix it well. Lobster coral can also be prepared dry by washing it and drying it in the oven, and rubbing it through a wire sieve. In this condition it is useful for sprinkling on dishes, and makes a beautiful ornament to boiled fish, fowls, and many other things. It is in itself absolutely tasteless. Keep it well corked up in a cool dry place. Whitebait. Take three quarts of whitebait. Have it very fresh and silvery looking, and keep it with ice until wanted. Wash it in iced water, remove any little pieces of weed, etc., there may be amongst it, dry it, dredge a thick layer of flour on a cloth, and put a small quantity of whitebait in this, cover it well with flour, and remove it to a coarse sieve. Continue until all the whitebait has been floured. Shake the sieve so that any superfluous flour will fall away. Put in the frying basket just enough whitebait to cover the bottom of it, the fat being ready for frying according to directions given on page 46. Plunge the basket in the fat for two minutes. Turn out the whitebait into a strainer, and repeat the opera- tion with a second lot until all the whitebait is fried. Let the fat get very hot again. Put as much of the whitebait in the basket as will be just covered by the hot fat. Plunge it in for a minute to make the fish crisp. Drain it, turn it out on a very hot dish, sprinkle a little fine salt upon it, and send up at once. Brown bread-and-butter, cut very thin, lemons cut in quarters, and cayenne pepper, should accom- pany whitebait, unless there is to be a distinct course of devilled whitebait, when only white and black pepper will be used for the first course. The butter used with the86 The Art of Cooking by Gas. brown bread should be of the best and freshest kind, the whitebait having the property of bringing out its flavour, so that inferior butter would be very unpleasantly notice- able. Devilled whitebait is made by sprinkling the whitebait with black or red pepper after it has been fried once and drained, and before plunging it into fat for the second time. Three quarts would not be sufficient for two courses of whitebait; and when two such courses are required, allow for the second course half the quantity needed for the first. This will generally be found ample, unless whitebait is the only fish served, in which case the quantity must be in- creased. Beef fat only should be used for frying whitebait, being for that purpose greatly superior to anything else. (See page 45, “ Directions for Clarifying Fat for Frying.”) Plovers’ Eggs in Aspic. Boil twenty-four plovers’ eggs for ten minutes, by putting them in boiling water over the gas turned three-quarter full on. When done, put them in cold water to set. Prepare two quarts of aspic jelly according to the directions given on page 70. Line some small plain dariole moulds by pouring a little jelly in them and turning them about on broken ice until a thin layer of jelly covers all the inside of the mould. Cut some very thin-strips of cooked beetroot and pickled gherkins, and stamp some stars, crescents, etc., with a vegetable cutter. Arrange some of these at the bottom of each mould—say a star of beetroot surrounded by smaller stars of gherkin, or a star and a crescent, etc.— picking up the little shapes with the point of a trussing needle. Put a little jelly on these, and let it set. Arrange the strips of beetroot in a slanting position round the moulds, fixing them with a little jelly. When set, arrange the stripsDinners for the Four Seasons—-July. 87 of gherkins so that they slant in a contrary direction and form an open trellis-work with the beetroot. Th's again being set, place a plover’s egg, shelled and dry, in the middle of each, fill the moulds with jelly and keep on ice till ready to serve. Dip each mould in warm water, wipe, and turn out, one on each plate. This is a very pretty dish; but, though simple, it takes some time to prepare, and should be disposed of early in the day so as no't to interfere with other culinary operations. The jelly should be kept just warm enough, to be soft, but not liquid. It will thus be much more easily and quickly worked. When plovers’ eggs are not in season, this dish can be executed with Bantam fowls’ eggs, which are very pretty and excellent eating. Fillets of Beef. Sauce Bearnaise. Six pounds of fillet of beef, quite free from skin and fat, will be necessary for this. Divide each pound in four pieces, making them as square as practicable—any trimmings that have to be cut off are useful for gravy, etc. Beat the little fillets with a steak beater. Melt six ounces of butter until just liquid, brush the fillets with this on both sides, sprinkle some pepper and salt also on both sides. Heat the griller for ten minutes, wipe the grid and pan, put the fillets on the grid, and push the pan back in its place. Turn the fillets over two or three times with a pair of steak tongs while they are cooking, and in tivehie minutes they will be done. Draw them out, and serve at once with Be'arnaise sauce. Sauce Bearnaise.—Put in a small saucepan or pipkin a quarter of a pint of French vinegar, five or six shallots chopped up finely, a dozen crushed peppercorns, three bay- leaves, and a sprig of thyme. Set this on the gas turned three-quarter full on, and let it boil until it is reduced to half the quantity. Strain the liquor, and keep it aside. Put88 The Art of Cooking by Gas. six yolks of eggs and two ounces of butter in a saucepan ol the bain-marie; work them together very gently; add two ounces more butter, taking the saucepan up in the left hand while melting the butter in ; when it is well mixed, add again two ounces of butter, proceeding as before. Put in a quarter of a pint of warm glaze, taste, and add a little salt if necessary. Mix well, add the flavoured vinegar, and last of all one spoonful of chervil and half a spoonful of tarragon, both chopped up. finely. This sauce must not boil at any time. It should be creamy and firm, so that a ladleful of it put on each of the fillets will stop on the top without running out into the plate. If too thick, a spoonful or two of cold water stirred into it will thin it sufficiently. Potatoes Sautees. Boil six pounds of potatoes (see page 76). Peel them, slice them in pieces about an eighth of an inch thick. Melt six ounces of butter in a large flat pan, technically called a saute pan, over the gas turned three-quarter full on. Put the potatoes in this, and turn them about, shaking the pan so that they get evenly browned. In three or four minutes they will be done. Season with pepper and salt and sprinkle with two table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley. Send up at once. They can be boiled early, peeled and set aside until wanted, but they should only be sliced just before using. Stewecl Ham Sauce Madere. Take a ham weighing about ten pounds, ascertain that it is quite sweet by running in a skewer, or a thin knife, at the knuckle, and again near the thigh bone. If the blade comes out clean and smelling sweet, the ham is good ; but if it is old and rusty, the knife looks smeary and the smell is unpleasant. Soak the ham for six or eight hours in lukewarm water, often renewed ; then scrub it well, pare it, saw the knuckle-Vinners for the Four Seasons—July. 89 bone off evenly, and wrap the ham in a clean cloth. Put in the braising pan enough cold water to cover the ham, add to it two carrots, a turnip, a large onion stuck with six cloves, two or three sticks of celery, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and three bay leaves tied together. Set this on the gas turned three-quarter full on, and let it come up to boiling point. Put the ham in, and let the water boil up again. Reduce the gas to half full on, and simmer until tender, allowing twenty minutes for every pound. Thus, a ten- pound ham will take three hours and twenty minutes. When done, take it up, and, putting aside the liquor in which it has been boiled, remove the cloth and the skin, except just round the knuckle, where the skin should be neatly van- dyked. Wipe the ham quite dry, brush it over with glaze (see page 50). Lay it in a baking dish and pour over it half a pint of Madeira. Put it in the oven of the kitchener, which has been previously lit for ten minutes, and baste it several times with the wine until the whole of it has been absorbed. Send up very hot with Madeira sauce. Madeira Sauce.—Reduce half a pint of Madeira .to half the quantity by boiling it over the gas turned three-quarter full on, add a pint of hot brown sauce, two table-spoonfuls of glaze, and a little pepper if necessary; strain or tammy, and serve. Windsor Beans. Take three quarts of fresh young beans, shelled only just before they are wanted, remove the black speck at the top of each, and put them in a saucepan with enough hot water to cover them, and a tea-spoonful of salt, over the gas turned three-quarter full on. Boil them for twelve to fifteen minutes—that is, until their outer skin can be easily removed—and having strained and disrobed them, melt six ounces of butter in a stewpan, and mix smoothly with it four ounces of (lour, add one pint and a half of good stock, a bunch of herbs, including a little savoury, pepper90 The Art of Cooking by Gas. and salt, and a small piece of sugar. Put in the beans, and stew gently over the gas turned half full on, until they have absorbed half the liquor. Beat up two eggs with half a pint of cream, add this gradually to the beans; do not let them boil again. Serve hot. Goslings. Although roast goose is accounted a Michaelmas dish, geese are really in their prime in June and July, bearing then the relation to full-grown goose that spring chickens bear to full-grown fowls. They are not so fleshy, but more delicate. Choose three young birds, plump and white, and having yellow pliable feet. Do not stuff them, but pepper and salt the inside, and put in each two ounces' of fresh butter. Close the opening with a needle and soft cotton. Spit the birds securely, two in one roaster and one in the other, having previously heated them for ten minutes. Leave the gas full on for ten minutes, then turn it down to half full for thirty minutes, and full on again for fifteen to twenty minutes. Baste liberally, especially at the beginning. Serve with a small bunch of watercress on each plate, a ladlcful of gravy (see below), and a dessert-spoonful of browned bread crumbs (see page 91). Gravy for Goslings.—Peel a large onion and cut it in slices. Melt one ounce of butter in a stewpan, and fry the onion in it till brown but not burnt, add the giblets of the goslings, which have been well picked and washed in several warm waters, and half a pound of gravy beef. Pour on these a pint and a half of cold water, or weak stock, season with six peppercorns, a salt-spoonful of salt, a few green sage leaves. Set the stewpan on the gas turned half full on, and simmer gently for two hours. Strain the gravy into a bqsin and let it get cold to remove the fat. Put aside the giblets, which can be used in a variety of ways. When the gravy has been freed from fat it need only be warmed in one ofDinners for the Four Seasons—July. 91 the saucepans of the bain-marie. If the onions have been properly fried it will be of a rich, clear brown colour, and should not on any account be thickened \ add to it just before serving the gravy that has fallen from the goslings themselves. Browned Bread Crumbs.—Grate finely enough stale bread to fill a pint measure about three-quarter full. Dry the crumbs thoroughly by putting them under the griller, or in the oven of the Charing Cross kitchener, on a tin covered with a piece of paper, shaking them occasionally and passing the fingers through them so that they are evenly dried. Put half an ounce of butter in a shallow frying-pan, and melt it over the gas turned three-quarter full on; when it is nearly boiling put in the crumbs, stir them well about to brown them evenly. Turn them out on a piece of blotting-paper, and dry them in the oven. These are useful for serving with game. They can also be made more plainly, by browning them in the oven without butter; they are, how- ever, nicer with it. Pine-Apple Pudding. Pare a fine pine apple (or two medium-sized ones), and, taking care to remove all the specks, slice half of it about an eighth of an inch thick, and stamp it in rounds, stars, 01- crescents with vegetable cutters, prepare a similar quantity of angelica and dried cherries. Cut the rest of the pine- apple in rather thicker slices, and cut these into dice. Put in a stewpan over the gas turned three-quarter full on, one and a half pint of new milk, nine ounces of fresh butter, and nine ounces of loaf sugar. When the milk is boiling and rises in the pan turn the gas nearly out, add gradually twelve ounces of fine sifted flour, and stir well to mix smoothly. When quite smooth turn the gas on again, and continue stirring until the mixture does not cling any more to the sides of the pan. Remove it into a basin and mix in the yolks of nine eggs lightly beaten together ; these being well92 The Art of Cooking by Gas. mixed and smooth, work well together for eight or ten minutes. • Butter three plain round moulds and line them with paper buttered on both sides. Arrange the stamped pieces of pine-apple and angelica and the dried cherries prettily at the bottom and sides. Just before filling the moulds add to the mixture the whites of the eggs beaten until quite stiff, and nine table-spoonfuls of the pine-apple cut in dice. Fill the moulds, and putting three small in- verted saucers at the bottom of a large pan, put the moulds on these and pour in enough boiling water to come about three inches up the moulds; cover the pan, turn the gas three-quarter full on, so that the water continues boiling ; steam for three-quarters of an hour. Turn the puddings out carefully, each on a separate dish, remove the paper and serve with syrup poured round. For the syrup allow three pounds of loaf sugar to one quart of water, add the parings of the pine-apple. Boil quickly to reduce the quantity to a pint and a half. Put a piece of muslin in a strainer, and pour the syrup through. Serve with the pudding. A few drops of saffron yellow will give the syrup a richer appearance. Nougats a la Creme. Put one pound and a half of sweet almonds in a stewpan with just enough cold water to cover them. Set the pan over the gas turned three-quarter full on until the water, boils. Strain the almonds and throw them in cold water. Wash them well, take them out on a dean rough cloth, and rub the skins off. When quite clean, pick them out and shred them finely lengthwise; put them on a baking sheet in the oven of the Charing Cross kitchener previously heated for five minutes. Leave the gas half full on, and let the almonds remain in until they are of a pale brown, occa- sionally shakingorstirring them so that they get evenly coloured. Melt half a pound of castor sugar in a stewpan withoutDinners for the Four Seasons—-July. 93 any water, the gas being turned three-quarter full on, add two tablespoonfuls of lemon-juice, and as soon as the sugar looks a clear golden brown, put half a pound of the almonds in it, stir them well so that they get evenly coated, then turn the gas low, and mould quickly. For this, have some small and rather shallow dariole moulds, oil them well inside, and have them ready for use, as the almonds must not wait; oil a marble pastry slab, take some of the almonds out and roll out quickly and as thinly as practicable, cut strips of this, and line the moulds very promptly as nougat hardens rapidly by contact with the air, whilst that which has been left in the pan to keep warm and soft, will get too brown if it waits too long. Pass a small sharp knife round the inside of the moulds to detach the nougats, and turn them out. Let them get cold and set. Repeat the operation with another half pound of almonds and half pound of sugar, and so on until all the almonds are disposed of and the nougats have all been moulded and taken out to dry as directed ; taking care to wipe the pan so that no shreds of almonds are left in before another quantity is put in. This way is indicated as being more convenient when only one or two persons can be attending to the nougats ; but if there are plenty, of helping hands, all the sugar (one and a half pound) and all the almonds can be put in at once and worked out again with as much dispatch as possible. When the nougats are all ready, whip stiffly a quart of thick cream with three ounces of castor sugar, mix with it a puree of apricots (see below), put this cream in a forcing-bag, and fill the nougats rather full with it, ornament the edge with preserved cherries cut in halves, alternating with tiny stars stamped out of angelica. Keep on ice until wanted. Puree of Apricots.—Skin eight fine ripe apricots, split them, take out the stones, rub the pulp through a wire sieve into a basin, add one ounce of sifted sugar, mix well, and add to the cream.94 The Art of Cookiag by Gas. The nougats, if put in a tin box with a thick layer of paper at the bottom, and some paper between them, will keep well for a few days, and can at any time be filled up with cream, preserved fruit, or even ice ; so that they are a very useful as well as a pretty dish. Keep them in a cool dry place. Cheese Straws. Grate eight ounces of Parmesan cheese. Put it in a basin and sift into it eight ounces of fine flour. Mix well together, rub in eight ounces of butter ; then break, one at a time, four eggs in the basin, mixing each egg well in before adding the next one. Add half a salt-spoonful of cayenne pepper and a little salt. No exact quantity can be given for this last, cheeses varying greatly in degree of salt- ness. Flour a pastry board and turn the paste out on it. Roll out carefully and evenly to thickness of straw. With two round pastry cutters, one smaller than the other, cut some rings, and with a sharp knife divide the rest of the paste into straws three inches long; the trimmings and edges can be rolled again and cut until all is used up. Put the straws and rings on a wet baking-tin into the hot oven of the kitchener, with the gas turned three-quarter full on, for about ten minutes. They should be a pretty light brown when done. Dish by putting five or six straws through each ring. These can be kept for a few days in a cool place, and warmed for a few minutes when wanted. MENU FOR OCTOBER. Twenty-four Gnats. POTAGE. SOUP. Purf'e de Gibier Aux Quenelles. Game Soup with Quenelles. POISSONS. Truite Saumone'e Grillee. Sauce Verte. Kromeskys dTIuitres. FISH. Grilled Salmon Trout. Green Sauce. Kromeskies of Oysters.Dinners for the Four Seasons—October. 95 ENTRIES. Compote de Pigeons. Turban de Foie Gras en Aspic. RELEVli. Selle de Mouton. Pommes Duchesses. Ghoux Fleurs au Gratin. ROT. Faisans. Ccqs de Bruyere. ENTREMETS. Abricots a la CondA Meringues <1 la Creme. ENTREES. Compote of Pigeons. Turban of Foie Gras in Aspic, REMOVE. Saddle of Mutton. Potatoes Duchesses. Cauliflower au gratin. ROAST. Pheasants. Grouse. PUDDINGS. Apricots a la Conde. Meringues with Cream. BONNE BOUCHE. SAVOURY. Amandes ft la Diable. Devilled Almonds. Game Soup with Quenelles. Take three partridges and two wild rabbits. Put them in a large saucepan or pot with three and a half quarts of cold stock (see page 55), two carrots, and one onion stuck with four cloves; a bunch of herbs (parsley, marjoram, thyme, and a bay-leaf tied together), a dessert spoonful of salt, thirty peppercorns. Set this on the gas turned half- full on, and bring slowly to boiling point. Skim carefully. When free from scum, simmer for three hours. Strain the soup and let it get cold, putting back the partridges and rabbits in it to cool. When they are partly cooled, take them out and remove all the flesh from the bones. Pass it through a sausage machine, or .pound it in a mortar, adding to it six ounces of bread soaked in half a pint of the liquor. Rub all this through a sieve, and put it in a saucepan with the rest of liquor, reserving four ounces of flesh for the quenelles {see below). Warm over the gas turned half full on, stirring to mix it well, taking care it does not boil. The soup can be prepared at leisure, but the pounded meat should not be put in the liquor longer than is neces- sary to mix it well, and warm it just before serving.The Art of Cooking by Gas. 96 Quenelles.—Put four ounces of bread-crumbs in a small stewpan with a quarter of a pint of stock, a pinch of salt, and a very little cayenne pepper. Leave this over the gas turned only half full on, stirring occasionally until the bread has absorbed all the stock, and looks smooth and firm, but not too dry; mix with it four ounces of game pur£e, moisten with two or three tablespoonfuls of good brown sauce, and mix in gradually two whole eggs to bind the mixture. Last of all, a wine-glassful of sherry or Madeira. Put this farce in a forcing-bag, and press it out in small balls, cutting off each ball with a wet knife, as it forms at the opening of the pipe. They should not be larger than an olive. Butter a flat pan (saute pan), and put the quenelles on it so that they do not touch each other. Pour in carefully a pint of hot stock to poach the quenelles, and turn the gas three-quarter full on until the stock boils, then reduce to half full on, and simmer for about ten minutes. Lift the quenelles out with a slice, and drain them. Put them in the soup tureen, and pour the hot soup over them. Grilled Salmon Trout. (Sauce Verte.) Medium-sized trout are the most delicate; the flesh should be red and the fish very fresh. Take three trout weighing each about one pound and a half. Scale and clean them. Score them carefully by making slanting cuts through the skin, across the *fish, about half an inch apart, with a sharp knife. Heat the griller for five minutes, rub the grid with butter. Rub also a little warm butter all over the fish, and put it on the grid with small pieces of butter placed on it, about one ounce of butter to each fish, sprinkle with pepper and salt. Grill for twenty-five to thirty minutes, according to size of fish, turning it only once when it is about half cooked, and occasionally basting it by dipping aDinners for the Four Seasons—October. 97 paste-brush in the warm butter that has fallen in the pan of the griller, and brushing the fish over with it. Remove carefully on to a very hot dish, and serve with sauce verte. Sauce Verte.—Take some chervil, tarragon, chives, pars- ley, burnet, one ounce of each. Put these herbs in a stewpan with enough cold water to cover them, adding a very small piece of soda and half a shallot. Set this on the gas turned full on, and bring to boiling point, strain and wash in cold water. Dry the herbs thoroughly in a cloth, pound them in a mortar with four yolks of hard-boiled eggs, three sliced gherkins, four well-washed and dried anchovies filleted, a dessert-spoonful of capers, and three of oil; add them to three-quarters of a pint of mayonnaise sauce (see below). They ought to colour it a delicate green, and if this is not obtained, add a little sap green. This sauce can be eaten cold, or, if preferred, heated in the bain-marie. It is ex- cellent, and forms a pretty contrast with the pink flesh of the trout. Mayonnaise Sauce.—Put in a basin three yolks of eggs, very fresh and quite free from white and from germs, a tea- spoonful of salt, and a pinch of white pepper, and, taking a wooden spoon in one hand and a bottle containing half a pint of oil in the other, pour the oil drop by drop in the basin, stirring round and round with a constant even motion until all the oil-has been absorbed and the sauce is nearly as thick as butter ; add a table-spoonful of French vinegar, and a tea-spoonful of Chili vinegar. Mix well, and use. This is the French mayonnaise, and is useful for many dishes, either employed by itself or in conjunction with aspic jelly. It is simple to make, but takes time, as if the oil is poured in too quickly, the sauce will not thicken. In summer it is well to rest the basin in which the sauce is being worked upon ice. Using ducks’ eggs will also help in thickening it. If mustard is mixed with it, in the proportion of a HThe Art of Cooking by Gas. 98 tea-spoonful to half a pint, it takes the name of rimolade. Mixed with the green seasoning mentioned-in the previous recipe it is called sauce vertc ; and if capers, gherkins, "shal- lots, chervil, and tarragon, are chopped finely and put in the sauce verte, and a little cayenne pepper added, it becomes a sauce tartare. All these sauces, especially the last one, should be rather highly seasoned. Kromeskies of Oysters. Open three dozen fresh oysters, taking care not to spill the liquor. Beard them, and put their liquor in a small basin. Chop die oysters small, and mix with them an equal quantity of finely minced cold fowl and half a dozen mush- rooms, also chopped up. Put these in a stevvpan, adding the oyster liquor poured in through a fine strainer, and set the pan on the gas turned only just half full on. Stir in the yolks of two raw eggs, two table-spoonfuls of cream, a very little salt and cayenne pepper. Stir gently over the gas until the mixture thickens, and when quite thick, turn it out to cool on a plate. When cold, form it into little cork-shaped rolls about two inches long. Cut some very thin pieces of rather fat bacon about two and a half inches broad by three inches long. On the smaller side of each of these lay a piece of the farce, so that it will have the three-inch length to wrap round, fold it into little rolls, closing the ends as well as practicable, and dip these in batter. Fry in hot fat, drain, and send up to table very hot, with fried parsley piled up. Compote of Pigeons. Melt in a large stewpan four ounces of butter over the gas turned three-quarter full on. Put in it three-quarters of a pound of rather fat bacon, cut in dice, and eighteen small onions which have been peeled, and blanched in boil- ing water for ten minutes. Shake these in the pan untilDinners for the Four Seasons—October. 99 brown, take them out with a slice and put them aside in a deep dish. Lay six pigeons in the butter, and turn them once or twice over so that they get evenly browned, take them out and lay them aside with the bacon. Put four ounces of flour in the pan and mix it smoothly with the butter until it is a rich brown. Add a quart of good stock, a dessert-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper. Let this come up to boiling point. Skim and strain it, and having rinsed out the stewpan, cut the pigeons each in four pieces, place these in the pan together with the bacon, the onions, and a bunch of herbs (parsley, chervil, marjoram, and two bay-leaves). Pour the sauce over, adding to it a large wine-glassful of French white wine, and set the pan over the gas, turned half full on, to simmer for twenty minutes; add two or three dozen small button mushrooms, and cook for five or six minutes more. Prepare two dozen fried croutons (see page 50), a quarter of an inch thick, and cut with a pear- shaped paste cutter. Take the herbs out, and dish on two entree dishes, one crouton and one piece of pigeon alternately standing up round the dish. Take the fat off the sauce, and, turning the gas full on, boil up quickly, take out with a spoon the onions, mushrooms, etc., putting them in the middle of each dish, pour the boiling sauce over, through a strainer, and send up at once. Turban de Foie Gras en Aspic. Line three shallow turban moulds rather thickly with aspic jelly (see page 70), over a basin containing ice. Ornament with red chillies, gherkins, etc., cut and stamped in pretty shapes, set these with a little more jelly, then fill the moulds to within half an inch of the top with a ragout (see below), finish with a layer of aspic jelly, and put on ice to set. When ready to serve, dip the moulds in warm water, and wipe quickly, turn out on a dish, and fill the centre of the turban with a dressed salad, ornament with plovers’ orIOO The Art of Cooking by Gas. Bantams’ eggs cut in quarters, and sprinkle a little lobster coral on the top of the salad. Ragout.—Put in a saucepan, over the gas turned full on, one pint and a quarter of aspic jelly, one pint of brown sauce, a quarter of a pint of sherry, half a dozen sliced mushrooms, and two ounces of glaze. Skim carefully, and boil till the sauce is reduced to half the quantity, and set it aside to cool. When cool, cut the contents of a terrine of foie gras in small dice, allowing about a table-spoonful to each person ; mix these with the sauce, adding three table-spoonfuls of truffle cut small and a dozen cooked mushrooms, also in small pieces. When nearly set, arrange this in the mould as directed above. Saddle of Mutton. Trim away any superfluous skin and fat, wipe, and tie the saddle with string in three or four places, so that it retains a good cylindrical shape. Heat the roaster for ten minutes, and put in the pan three large spoonfuls of good dripping. Spit the joint securely, put it in the roaster, and baste it all over; start the turnspit, and close the roaster. Leave the gas full on for ten minutes, then lower it to half full and, basting occasionally, let the joint cook at the rate of twelve minutes for every pound. Twenty minutes before the joint is done, turn the gas full on again ; stop basting five minutes before taking up the joint. Remove it to a very hot dish, and serve with its own gravy, free from fat, poured round, the meat, and some mutton gravy in a tureen. Hand round some red currant jelly on a small cut-glass plate. Poinmes Duchesses. Wash four pounds of mealy potatoes, put them in enough cold water and salt to cover them. Set this over the gas turned three-quarter full on, and boil for thirty minutes. When done, strain and peel them carefully, and rub themDinners for the Four Seasons—October, iot through a wire sieve into a basin. Put in a stewpan four ounces of butter, a quarter of a pint of milk, a dessert- spoonful of salt, and a tea-spoonful of white pepper. Mix these over the gas turned half full on, and when hot add the potatoes. Turn the gas lower. Stir in, one at a time, four raw yolks of eggs. It must make a rather stiff paste. Do not cover it, or let it boil. When it has acquired the neces- sary consistency, turn it out on a dish, and leave it to get cold. Flour the pastry slab, cut the potatoes in pieces, and with a large palette knife shape them like small apples and pears, touching them as little as possible with the hands. Cover them with egg and bread-crumbs (see page 48), fry them in hot fat, drain them on a hot cloth, and stick in each about an inch of parsley stalk. These little golden apples and pears are very pretty and appetising. Serve hot. Cauliflower au Gratin. Take six fine cauliflowers of medium size. Remove all the leaves, and trim off the stalks. Put the cauliflowers, head downwards, in a bucket or pan of water to which has been added a handful of salt and half a tumbler of vinegar. This will make them firm and white, and draw out any insects there might be in them. Having soaked them for an hour, drain them, and put them in a large pan of boiling water over the gas turned three-quarter full on. Skim carefully. In fifteen to twenty minutes, according to size, they will be done ; take them out and drain them thoroughly, and taking three dishes that will stand fire, divide the cauli- flowers among these, putting the flowers uppermost, raised and rounded in the middle to represent as much as possible a head of cauliflower in each. For the sauce melt four ounces of butter in a stewpan over the gas, mix in two ounces of flour, and when smooth add a quart of milk, half a salt-spoonful of cayenne pepper, very little salt. Bring this to boiling point, constantly102 The Art of Cooking by Gas. stirring, then mix in gradually six ounces of grated Par- mesan cheese, stirring it well in. Divide the sauce equally among the three dishes, pouring it over the cauliflowers to cover them smoothly, and sprinkle on the top of each two ounces of grated Parmesan. Put the dishes in the hot oven for about fifteen minutes to brown, and serve hot. This dish can be served with meat, or sent up as a separate vegetable course. Roast Pheasants. Proceed to spit the birds as directed on page 37 for fowls and chickens. Put them in the roaster, previously heated for ten minutes, with two table-spoonfuls of beef dripping. Baste well, and start the turnspit. Allow five minutes with the gas full on, basting liberally, then turn the gas to half full on for fifteen minutes, and turn it again full on for ten minutes. Do not baste during the last five minutes. Serve with what gravy has fallen from the birds added to a pint of good clear beef gravy (see page 57). A sprig of watercress should be put on each plate, and bread sauce handed round as well as gravy. Bread Sauce.—Boil a pint of milk, with one shallot and two cloves, over the gas turned three-quarter full on. When boiling, stir into it two ounces of fresh butter, and add gradually four ounces of freshly-made bread crumbs. Reduce the gas to half full on, simmer for twenty minutes, pick out the shallot and cloves, and pour in a quarter of a pint of cream, add a pinch of salt and a little white pepper, mix well, boil for five minutes more, and serve. Note.—Pheasants can have a piece of bacon about four or five inches square tied on the breast to keep them moist. This piece of bacon is called in French barde, and is often used for game of various sorts (see Fig. 24). It should be removed at the last, when the gas is turned full on for browning. The revolving motion of the Parisienne roaster,Dinners for the Four Seasons—October. 103 which keeps the birds well basted, does away in a great measure with the necessity for this precaution, and birds can be roasted with or without bacon according to taste; but some birds are naturally dry flesh and are generally barded or larded. Full directions will be found under the heading “ Frican- deau” for larding and cutting the lardons or strips of fat bacon. Grouse. For these it is best to have a piece of bacon tied on the breast (see Fig. 24). Having heated the roaster for ten minutes, spit the birds as directed for fowls, etc. (see page 37), put two spoonfuls of beef dripping in the pan, start the turnspit, keep the gas full on five minutes, well basting the birds ; turn it to half full on for ten minutes, remove the fat bacon from the breast, and turn the gas full on again for ten minutes. When the gas is turned full on for browning the birds toast on both sides a piece of bread, half an inch thick, in the griller, butter it and put it in the hot dish ; pour carefully a little good beef gravy over it, just enough to moisten it, but not enough to run in the dish. Remove the birds from the roaster and set them side by side on the toast, garnish with watercress, but put no gravy in the dish. Serve with them a clear brown gravy (see page 57), bread sauce (see page 102), and browned bread-crumbs (see page 91). Fumct.—When possible, the gravy served with game should have a flavouring, in French fumet, of the same game. To make this : take the carcases and trimmings of game, say a brace of grouse served at a previous meal. Break the bones, and put them in a stewpan with a carrot, an onion, two cloves, a bunch of herbs, a grate of nutmeg, a wine-glassful of sherry or Madeira, and half a pint of water. Simmer these gently until the gravy from it looks a rich clear brown, and is reduced to not much more than a quarter104 The Art of Cooking by Gas. I of a pint. Strain it, remove the fat, and use to flavour gravy. The same can be done for any kind of game. It will keep for several days, and should be put aside duly labelled. The bones, etc., are afterwards used in the stock- pot. Apricots a la Cond6. Pick and wash three-quarters of a pound of Carolina rice, and put it in a saucepan with a quart of cold water. Set it on the gas, turned three-quarter full on, and bring it to boiling-point. Strain it, wash it in cold water, and it is then thoroughly clean. Put the rice in a stewpan with three pints of new milk, one ounce of fresh butter, and the rind of a lemon finely grated ; boil it until it is tender and the milk has been all absorbed, then turn out the gas and mix in one by one eight yolks of eggs (for recipe to use up whites of eggs see “ Meringues”), turn the gas on again, and stir the rice until boiling, then remove it. Form turbans with this on three sepa- rate dishes, flattening the top smoothly. Warm half a pound of apricot marmalade and spread thinly over the rice. Cut three dozen fine preserved apricots in halves, arrange them, overlapping each other in a wreath on the top of the rice; pour on them a little syrup (see page 78) coloured with a few drops of saffron yellow, and serve warm. If this dish is made in summer with fresh apricots or peaches they should be thrown in the boiling syrup, just boiled up and taken out again, so that they arc not broken. Meringues a la Creme. Beat six whites of eggs with a pinch of salt. When very stiff, add a quarter of a pound of castor sugar, mixing the sugar in lightly without beating. Put the mixture in a forcing-bag with plain pipe. The oven should be warmed for six or eight minutes, and a baking-sheet or two put in to warm. Take the baking-sheet out and squeeze the mixtureDinners for the Four Seasons—October. 105 on it in little oval mounds about the size of an egg. Six eggs ought to give twenty-four of these, each piece being half a meringue. Dust them with a little icing sugar, put them in the oven, reduce the gas to barely half on, and leave them for an hour, looking at them occasionally to see that they do not turn colour too quickly ; they ought to take only the faintest brown tinge. Take them out, and, with a small spoon, scoop out a little of the inside. Put them back in the oven to dry. When quite dry turn them out on to a pastry-rack to cool. When cold place a table- spoonful of whipped cream, sweetened and flavoured with vanilla, on one half, and put the other half on. They can be also filled with a puree of fruit, with apricot marmalade, or with creme patissiere. Double this quantity will serve twenty-four people. These form a pretty dish, and are simple to make. They have the advantage of keeping well for some time in a dry place, so that on any emergency they will supply a welcome addition to the pudding course, and they use up the whites of eggs occasionally left when yolks only are employed in some dish or sauce. Devilled Almonds. Blanch one and a half pound of fine almonds by putting them in cold water over the gas, turned three-quarter full on. When boiling strain them, wash them in plenty of cold water, drain and rub them in a clean cloth until quite free from the skins. Pick them out, wipe them, and put them in a dish in the warm oven until quite dry. This can be conveniently done when something has been baked in the oven and the flash-lights only are left on. When the almonds are quite dry, put half a pint of salad oil in a shallow frying- pan over the gas, turned three-quarter full on, and when it is boiling put in the almonds and fry them to a pale golden brown. Strain them. Spread a clean rough cloth on theio6 The Art of Cooking by Gas. table, sprinkle about a table-spoonful of fine dry salt and a salt-spoonful of cayenne pepper on it, spreading them well over; put the almonds on this, and, taking up the corners of the cloth, shake the almonds well in. Turn them out on a baking-sheet covered with a piece of paper, and leave them in the oven, with only the flash-lights on, for three or four hours, until thoroughly dry. These will keep for some time in a dry place, and are delicious.* CHRISTMAS DINNER. Twenty-four Guests. POTAGE. SOUP. Tortile Claire. Clear Turtle. POISSONS. Cabillaud. Sauce Aux Pluitres. Eperlans Frits. ENTREES. Bouchdes k la Reine. Dinde a la Chipolata. relevR Aloyau. Sauce au Raifort. Pommes de Terre au Nature], Chou de Mer. ROT. Perdreaux. Bdcasses. ENTREMETS. Pudding de Noel, Mince Pies. Croquenbouche d'Oranges. Gelde d’Argent. Stilton. Celery, £ FISH. Cod. Oyster Sauce. Fried Smelt. ENTRIES. Patties k la Reine. Turkey a la Chipolata. REMOVE. Sirloin. Horseradish Sauce. Boiled Potatoes. Sea-Kale. ROAST. Partridges. Woodcock. ENTREMETS. Christmas Pudding. Mince Pies. Croquenbouche of Oranges. Silver Jelly. Pulled Bread. Clear Turtle Soup. Get a pound of the best sun-dried turtle, and soak it in lukewarm water for three days and nights, changing the * I am indebted for this recipe to Mrs. Marshall, the well-known lecturer on cookery.Dinners for the Four Seasons—Christmas. 107 water at least once in every twelve hours. Keep the pan in a warm place. At night it can be set on one of the ring burners turned down to a very low flame. This is quite safe, as the gas cannot go out of its own accord, and dur- ing the last twelve hours the water should be kept rather warmer. Prepare the stock in the following manner Take three pounds of gravy beef, three pounds of knuckle of veal, half a pound raw ham quite free from fat. Put these in four quarts of cold water with a dessert-spoonful of salt over the gas turned half full on, and skim carefully until boiling-point is reached. Put in three carrots, one turnip, a large head of celery, three onions, with three cloves stuck in each onion, a handful of parsley well picked and washed, one table-spoonful each of marjoram and basil, a dessert-spoonful of thyme, two bay-leaves, a dessert- spoonful of salt, and thirty peppercorns. Skim again as long as any scum rises, and simmer gently for four hours. Strain this and put it away to cool. In this liquor well freed from fat, put the turtle and simmer very gently for twelve hours. It is well to reserve a pint of the liquor, and pour this in from time to time as the stock reduces, skimming again if required. The turtle being done, strain off the stock and clarify it (see page 65). Mix three dessert-spoonfuls of the best arrowroot with a quarter of a pint of sherry and a very little cayenne pepper, and, when smooth, pour it through a strainer into the soup, set it over the gas turned three-quarter full on, and stir until the soup boils again. Cut the turtle in pieces about an inch and a half square. Warm these for five minutes in the soup, put them in the hot soup tureen, pour the soup over them, and just before serving, squeeze in through a strainer a dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice. Hand round cayenne pepper, and lemons cut in quarters. This soup is lengthy to make with an ordinary kitchener,io8 The Art or Cooking by Gas. but the use of a thoroughly reliable gas kitchener enables the cook to quicken and simplify the process considerably. For instance, the turtle having to soak for three days and nights, during which the water must be kept lukewarm, and requiring warmer water during the last twelve hours, it is obvious that it could be boiled for a very short time only on the same day. It must be then turned out in a pan, and the boiling resumed on the following day. Then comes the clarifying and finishing of the soup, all of which could not be crowded into one day. But by the use of gas the work can be done as follows :— Let the turtle be soaked as directed, and on the evening of the third day leave it in the pan of warm water, just re- newed, over the gas turned down low, or in the oven with only the flash lights on. The water will keep warm, and the turtle will be ready for cooking by the next morning, which should be that of the day before it is wanted, the stock for it having been made over-night and freed from fat. Thus it will be easy to give the turtle twelve hours cooking right off, say from eight in the morning to eight in the evening. Remove the soup from the gas, strain it, and put it away to cool until the morning of the dinner, the turtle having been washed with a little warm water to remove any herbs that might cling to it. In the morning, clarify the soup, and just before wanted, finish as directed, the pieces of turtle being only put in when the soup is boiling up for the last time. The vegetables, herbs, etc., used for flavouring the soup, the meat used in making the stock as well as that used in clarifying the soup, go to the stock-pot and will make very good secondary stock. Cod and Oyster Sauce. Choose a piece of cod weighing between six and sevenDinners for the Four Seasons—Christmas. 109 pounds. Whether the head and shoulders, the middle of the fish or the tail be used, is a matter of individual chioce. The middle, of course, is most advantageous for serving a number of guests ; but, in any case, the fish cut from should be very fresh, the eyes bright, the flesh white and firm, and the tail thick and rather short. Cleanse out the fish very thoroughly, especially along the back-bone, rubbing it with salt, and laying it in water for an hour, then washing it in plenty of water. Tie it round with tape to keep it in good shape. Put in the kettle enough cold water to cover the fish, adding to each quart of water a dessert-spoonful of salt and two dessert-spoonfuls of French vinegar. The fish can be boiled in this plain court bouillon, or the vegetables, etc., indicated on page 66, for salmon can be added to it if preferred. Set the kettle on the gas turned three-quarter full on, and boil up. Skim carefully. Put the fish in and skim again as the scum rises. As soon as the water boils again, turn the gas down to half full on and simmer gently, allowing five minutes to every pound, always taking in con- sideration the thickness of the fish, which being lesser or greater than the average will make a difference of a few minutes. When the fish leaves the bone easily it is done. Raise the strainer and set it crosswise on the kettle to drain the fish. Dish up on a hot dish covered with a hot and neatly-folded serviette, garnish with fresh parsley and slices of lemon. Serve at once. Oyster Sauce.—Open carefully three dozen oysters, so as not to spill the liquor. Beard them and put them aside. Put the liquor and beards in a pint of white stock (see page 55), with two bay leaves, six peppercorns, a small piece of thin lemon-rind, and a grate of nutmeg. Set this over the gas turned half full on, and simmer for twenty minutes ; strain it. Melt four ounces of butter in a saucepan, and mix in four ounces of fine sifted flour ; when smooth, add the strained liquor, a pinch of salt, and a littlei ro The Art of Cooking by Gas. cayenne pepper. Turn the gas a little higher. Stir till the sauce boils, then lower the gas again. Cut the oysters eacli in four pieces, add them to the sauce, do not let it boil again, or the oysters will be leathery. Beat four yolks of eggs and a table-spoonful of lemon-juice, add these gradually to the sauce, stirring until quite smooth and hot, and serve. Fried Smelt. These delicate fish should be chosen very bright and silvery-looking, and their gills red and moist ; they should be handled as little as possible, and carefully cleansed and wiped out, but not washed. Trim the fins with a pair of scissors, roll the fish in fine flour, and cover them with egg and bread-crumbs. Put them in the frying-basket and fry in hot fat. Drain them on a hot cloth, or paper, and serve with fried parsley and slices of lemon. Four dozen will be sufficient for this dish unless they are very small. Bouclides a la Heine. In making these two things must be considered : the puff paste to make the patties, and the ragout, or puree, to fill them. Puff Paste.—Take two pounds of fine flour, which has been sifted and dried, and put it on the pastry slab. Make a hole in the middle, put in a pinch of salt, and gradually mix in with a palette knife enough water to make a rather stiff paste. No actual quantity can be given for this, as some flours absorb more water than others. The paste should be just soft enough to work, but not enough to cling to the fingers or the slab; work it into a ball and roll it out to an oblong shape. Have two pounds of butter well washed and squeezed in a cloth to remove all the moisture from it. Take care that it is neither too hard nor too soft, for if too hard it will not roll out, and if too soft it will ooze through the paste. Roll it out between two floured cloths, put it onDinners for the Four Seasons—Christmas. i 11 the paste, so that it covers one-half of it, and fold the other half over. Roll the paste out to half the thickness, not roll- ing backward and forward, but straight forward only. Fold it in three by bringing one end over the middle and lapping the other end over. Cover it and put it away in a cool place for twenty minutes. This is called giving the pastry a turn. Flour the slab very lightly, take out the pastry, and roll it out, fold it again in three, cover it and put it away. Give six turns at the same intervals. Let the pastry rest for five minutes after the last turn, roll it out to the thickness of three-quarters of an inch, and, with a rose pastry-cutter two inches in diameter, dipped in hot water, stamp the patties. Put them on a wet baking-sheet, and, with a plain round cutter about an inch wide, also dipped in water, mark the middle of each by cutting down about halfway through. Beat up a whole egg and brush the patties with it. The gas should be lighted for fifteen minutes in the oven previously, so that the patties can be put in as soon as they are ready. In twenty-five minutes they will be done; take them out, remove the top of the middle, and, with a small knife, scoop out quickly the soft crumb from the inside. Fill the patties with the ragout (see below), put the tops on again, and serve at once. Delay is very detrimental to bouchees, or patties, so much so that the celebrated epicure, the Marechal Due de Richelieu used to say that “ to eat really good little patties one ought to have the oven in one’s own pocket.” How- ever “ heroic ” this means of obtaining patties in prime condition may seem, it is certain that there ought to be no delay in serving them, and the cook will do well to reckon the time exactly, so that the bouche'es are taken straight- way from the oven to the table. Ragout for the Bouchees.—Cut all the white meat of a cold roast or braised fowl in small pieces. Put three ounces of butter in a small stewpan and gradually mix in three ounces of fine flour. Fry this without colouring it, andThe Art of Cooking by Gas. I 12 moisten with three-quarters of a pint of white stock; add a tea-spoonful of salt, a sprinkle of cayenne pepper; keep stirring until it boils, add a quarter of a pint of cream, six blanched mushrooms cut up finely, and a tea-spoonful of lemon juice. Mix well and boil for a few minutes longer. Put in the chicken, and, when well mixed and quite hot, put the mixture in a forcing-bag with large plain pipe end, and fill the bouchees. This ragout can be kept hot in the bain-marie, if necessary, provided it does not boil again. Braised Turkey a la Cliipolata. For a turkey weighing nine or ten pounds when ready trussed for boiling, cut one pound of fresh pork and one pound of veal, both raw, in small pieces, and pass them through a sausage machine. Mix with this meat the liver of the turkey chopped finely; add six ounces of freshly- made bread-crumbs, six ounces of finely-chopped suet, two table-spoonfuls of chopped herbs (parsley, thyme, a bay leaf, half a shallot, a little marjoram, and grated nutmeg); pound all these together well and bind the mixture with four yolks of eggs. Add two dozen chestnuts which have been baked for twenty minutes and peeled. Stuff the bird with this forcemeat. Sew up the opening. Cover the breast with slices of fat bacon tied on with string. Put the turkey in the braising-pan with enough good white stock to cover it, and half a pint of sherry or Madeira. Put the braising-pan over the gas, turned half-full on, cover it, and put the braising burner {see page 26) on the lid, the flames being kept rather lower than those of the burner under the pan. If no braising burner is available the braising-pan can be put in the oven. Simmer for two hours and a half, care- fully skimming and keeping the turkey well covered with stock. When cooked, drain it, put in on a very hot dish, and garnish as follows. Prepare twenty-four of each of the following things : carrots, cut to the shape of corks, notDinners for the Four Seasons—Christmas. 113 more than two inches long, and cooked for an hour in half a pint of weak stock to which a pinch of sugar has been added ; turnips treated in the same manner and cooked for half an hour; mushrooms, blanched for ten minutes in boiling water, with a little salt. Bake twenty-four chestnuts for twenty minutes, having cut a little piece off the point to prevent bursting, then peel them. Cut twenty-four pieces of rather lean bacon the same size and shape as the carrots and turnips, and fry them in a little butter. All these things can, and indeed should, be prepared beforehand in the manner indicated, and put aside until wanted. Sausages a la Chipolata.—These little sausages, which give their name to the dish, are best made at home. Cut up one pound of fresh pork and one pound of bacon. Be sure there is no bone, skin, or gristle left in. Add pepper, salt, a little pounded sage, allspice, and cloves—one tea-spoonful of each, pass the meat twice through a sausage machine, and fill with it very carefully washed sausage skins about three- quarters of an inch in diameter, divide in little sausages not more than two inches long. Prick these in two or three places with a larding needle, put them in a shallow frying- pan with a little butter, to prevent them from sticking to the bottom of the pan, and cook for twelve to fifteen minutes, turning them well about to cook them evenly. These will be prepared beforehand, but should only be fried just when wanted. When about to serve the turkey put a quart of good brown sauce (see page 73) in one of the saucepans of the bain-marie, with a wine-glassful of Madeira. Put in the vegetables and warm for ten minutes. Put the turkey on a hot dish, arrange the garnish and sausages round it, tammy the sauce, pour half of it over the garnish, and send the rest up to table in a sauce-boat. Roast Sirloin of Beef. Directions for roasting a twelve-pound joint are given on 1ii4 The Art of Cooking by Gas. page 34 ; but for the present number of guests fifteen pounds will be a better size, as it must be borne in mind that there is a good deal of bone and fat in a piece of sirloin, and that if the joint is only just large enough, some of the cuts from it will not look well. The time for cooking this will be as follows:—Ten minutes with the gas full on to heat the roaster, ten minutes after the meat has been put in with the gas still full on, to close the pores of the meat. Then turn the gas down to barely half full on for one hour and a half (ninety minutes), so that the heat penetrates very gradually, the joint being thick. Turn the gas up to three-quarter full on for thirty minutes, and finish with it full on for twenty minutes more. This makes up two hours and a half, and the meat will be found then well done and full of juice. Baste liberally, especially at the beginning, with good beef dripping. Lift the joint on to a very hot dish, and garnish with horseradish finely shredded. Remove the fat from the gravy in the dripping pan, and pour in half a pint of boiling beef gravy (see page 57), add a pinch of salt, mix thoroughly, and pour the gravy in the well of the dish. When the meat is carved, the gravy from it will run into this, making up a quantity amply sufficient for all the guests. Horseradish Sauce.—Soak, and scrape the horseradish very finely. Mix two raw yolks of eggs with a table-spoonful of French vinegar, add a pinch of salt, a little white pepper, and four table-spoonfuls of scraped horseradish. Then mix in gradually a pint of whipped cream. Put the sauce in a saucepan of the bain-marie and warm, but do not boil it. Tliis sauce is also very good served cold with cold beef. Boiled Potatoes. Take six pounds of potatoes, choosing them as nearly as possible of equal size. Wash and scrub them thoroughly. Put them in a saucepan with enough cold water to cover them. Set them over the gas turned three-quarter full onDinners for the Four Seasons—Christmas. 115 and throw in the water a table-spoonful of salt. Cook from thirty to thirty-five minutes from the time the water boils. Pour off the water, cover the saucepan with a folded cloth, and let it stand a few minutes over the gas turned down to half full on. Peel the potatoes, and serve hot. Sea-kale. Wash and trim it, and tie it in little even bundles, allowing one bundle of four or five shoots to each person. Lay it in cold water for half an hour. Put enough cold water in a large pan to well cover the kale, add a table- spoonful of salt and one of lemon juice. Set this over the gas turned three-quarter full on, and when it boils put in the kale ; let the water boil up again, reduce the gas to half full on, and cook from thirty to thirty-five minutes, carefully removing any scum that rises to the top. Ascertain that the kale is tender by pricking lightly with a fork or, better, a thin skewer. Take it up with a slice, and drain between two hot cloths so that it does not get cold. Put a slice of plain toast in each of the vegetable dishes, and arrange the kale on it carefully, cutting off the string that held it in bundles. Send melted butter (see below) up with it in a boat, for if the melted butter is poured over it, the dish is apt to present a messy appearance after a few people have been served. Melted Butter.—Take six ounces of the best and freshest butter obtainable, and divide in live or six pieces. Put one of these pieces in an enamelled saucepan over the gas turned three-quarter full on. As soon as it is warm, stir in three ounces of fine sifted and dried flour, mix smoothly with a wooden spoon, but do not let it get coloured, add a salt- spoonful of salt and a pinch of white pepper, and, stirring constantly, pour in gradually nearly a pint of boiling water. Lower the gas a little, and stir in one by one the pieces of butter, taking care that each one is thoroughly mixed in before adding another one. Should the sauce look oily116 The Art of Cooking by Gas. drop in a tea-spoonful of cold water and stir briskly. The sauce being quite smooth and creamy looking, beat the yolks of two eggs in a small basin with a tea-spoonful of lemon juice or French vinegar, turn out the gas, add the beaten eggs to the sauce, mix well in, strain, and serve at once. It will be seen that the main points to consider are: to fry the flour and part of the butter together so that the flour will be cooked without colouring; to stir briskly all the time, and to add the rest of the butter, etc., gradually, without allowing the sauce to boil again. If these directions are followed exactly, there can be no failure. The sauce should be of the consistency of thick cream, but if too thick, stir in a table-spoonful of boiling water before straining the sauce. The saucepan in which melted butter is made should not be used for anything else, but kept for that purpose only. Partridges. Four of these will go in the roaster quite well. They should be spitted in the following manner :—Remove the driving skewer nearest to the point, and put the birds on like fowls. See that they are in the middle of the spit; drive the skewers in the two end birds, and with a piece of string fasten the two middle ones to them so that they will not slip when turning. The roaster having been heated for ten minutes, leave the gas full on for five minutes after the partridges are put in, turn it to half full on [ox fifteen minutes, and full on again for six or seven minutes to brown the birds. They want basting plentifully with good beef dripping, especially if they are neither barded nor larded. To bard them, cut a thin piece of fat bacon (in French, barde) about three and a half inches long and two and a half broad, make a few slits in it, and tie it on the breast of the bird (see Fig. 24). The bacon should be removed when the gas is turned on full for browning. If the birds are to be larded, cut the thin fat bacon intoDinners eor the Four Seasons—Christmas. 117 strips (,lardons) an eighth of an inch broad and an inch long, use a small larding needle, and put rows of lardons over the breast and wings. Pare off the ends evenly with scissors. Full directions for larding are given at “ Fricandeau,” see Pa§e M5- . These two methods are given to suit individual tastes, but the partridge properly roasted and carefully basted is excellent in its natural state. Serve with good clear beef gravy, flavoured, if possible, Fig. 24. with a fumet of partridge (see page 103) added to the gravy of the birds themselves, and bread sauce. Put a small sprig of watercress on each plate. One partridge is sufficient for four people. Woodcock. These can be put in the Parisienne roaster after the beef has been removed, and will then have ample time to cook, as they must on no account be overdone. Handle them carefully so as not to break the skin, which is very tender. Tie a small piece of bacon over the breast as directed for partridges (see Fig. 24). Baste with good beef dripping, and the roaster being very hot, turn the gas down to not more than half full on. Put a piece of toasted bread underneath to receive theThe Art of Cooking by Gas. drippings and trails of the birds, as they are cooked without being drawn. Roast for twelve minutes, remove the bacon, and turn the gas full on to brown for three minutes only. Serve on the toast and garnish with watercress. Note.—The woodcock is not liked by everyone, many objecting to the fact that it must be eaten apparently under- done ; yet if it is done thoroughly, so that the flesh looks brown when cut open, there is no taste at all in it. The number of woodcocks to be roasted must therefore be left to the cook to decide upon, reckoning one woodcock for two persons. In the present instance four woodcocks added to the four partridges mentioned above will serve twenty-four people exactly. These quantities can, of course, be increased or de- creased at will, only taking care to observe the same pro- portions. Christmas Pudding'. Put in a large pan or basin, three-quarters of a pound of finely-made bread-crumbs, a quarter of a pound of fine sifted flour, one pound perfectly sweet beef-suet chopped very finely, one pound of stoned raisins, one pound of picked currants, one pound of the best Demerara sugar, two ounces of candied peel (one of lemon, one of citron), one ounce of sweet almonds blanched and sliced, a small nutmeg grated, a salt-spoonful of salt. Mix all these toge- ther thoroughly, then add gradually eight eggs beaten together, half a wine-glassful of brandy, and just enough milk to make the mixture into a stiff paste. If too much milk is put in the pudding will be heavy. Butter a large pudding-mould, and strew it with Demerara sugar, pour the mixture in, cover it with a buttered paper, and tie a cloth securely over it. Knot the four corners of the cloth together to lift the pudding by. Put a small plate or saucer at the bottom of a large saucepan or pot; half fill it with water, and set it over the gas turned three-Dinners for the Four Seasons—Christmas. 119 quarter full on. When the water boils, plunge the pudding in, see that the water covers it, and boil for ten hours. 1 he pudding should be made at least a day or two before it is wanted. When the pudding is to be served up, plunge it in boiling water as directed above, and boil for an hour. Hot brandy can be put round this pudding, and set alight in the dining-room, but on no account should the pudding be carried in alight, as this is most dangerous. Madeira Sauce for Christmas Pudding.—Put in a sauce- pan of the bain marie eight yolks of eggs, four ounces of castor sugar, three-quarters of a pint of Madeira, and the yellow rind of half a lemon, stir gently round and round until creamy. Tammy or strain, and serve. Mince Pies. Make a puff paste according to directions given on page no, roll it out thin, and cut it in rounds about two inches and a half in diameter, allowing two pieces of pastry to one pie. Line buttered patty pans with one piece, put a spoonful of mincemeat (see below) upon it, wet the edges of the pastry, and cover with the other piece, press the edges together, and brush the pie over with egg beaten up whole. Put the pies on a baking sheet in the oven, which has been lighted for a quarter of an hour, and bake. When about half done, dust them over with icing sugar, and put them back. In fifteen to eighteen minutes they will be done. Dish them up and serve hot. Mincemeat.—This is best made at least a fortnight before it is wanted. Clean, pick, and chop finely a pound of raisins, a pound of currants, and a pound of russet apples peeled and cored. Chop finely one pound of suet, one pound of roast beef, and half a pound of candied peel (orange, lemon, and citron, in equal parts); add half a pound of Demerara sugar, the juice of a lemon, and half its yellow rind grated, a teaspoonful of salt, and a very little pounded cinnamon.I 20 The Art of Cooking by Gas. Mix all these ingredients thoroughly, moistening them with a wine-glassful of sherry, and two table-spoonfuls of brandy. Keep in covered jars like jam, and reserve for use. Croqtienbouche of Oranges. Prepare twelve fine oranges in the following manner :— Peel each orange carefully, and remove as much of the white skin as can be taken off, without breaking the inner skin of the orange. Divide it into quarters without breaking them. Wipe them so that they are quite dry. Take a needle and thread, and pass the needle through the pithy part in the middle of each quarter; tie the cotton in a loop about two inches long. Cut some wire in lengths of four inches, and bend each in the shape of a rather long S ; hook these through the loops of the oranges. Make a syrup in the proportion of half a pint of water to a pound of loaf sugar. Boil this over the gas turned three-quarter full on, skimming carefully until a drop of it is taken on the tip of a spoon, and quickly plunged into cold water, snaps off sharply when taken between the finger and thumb. Take hold of the quarters of orange by the wire hook, and dip them quickly in and out one by one, so that they are covered with syrup all over. Hang them on a horizontal rod far apart enough not to touch each other. This must be done promptly, or the sugar will get too coloured. The oranges being dry and cold, oil three plain moulds lightly, and place the oranges all round slightly overlapping each other; keep them in place by touching the edges with a little syrup made afresh. Make three tiers of oranges one above the other, the middle one going in a reverse direction to the other two. Let them rest in a cool place to get firm. Slip a thin knife round the moulds to detach the oranges, turn out on to a dish and fill the middle of each ring with a pint of cream stiffly whipped with two table-spoonfuls of castor sugar and a few drops of essence of vanilla, andDinners for the Four Seasons—Christmas. 121 drained on a sieve. Ornament the cream with a few dried cherries and angelica, and keep on ice until wanted. This is a very pretty dish and rather uncommon, as it is usually considered difficult to manage \ but a very little practice will enable a cook to dip and dry the oranges quite successfully. Served by themselves, each in a little paper boat, they make a very nice addition to a winter dessert, and their delicate manipulation is such as will commend itself to ladies desirous of trying their hand at fancy dishes. Should the sugar get too coloured in course of using, another quantity will have to be melted as directed above. The coating on the orange should be like thin ice, very clear and brittle. Silver Jelly. To make one quart of jelly, put a quart of water in a saucepan over the gas turned three-quarter full on, and, when it is quite hot, add half a pound of loaf sugar, an ounce and a half of the best French gelatine, the thin yellow rind of four lemons and their juice carefully strained, the whites and shells of two eggs, two cloves, and a small piece of cinnamon. Whisk briskly until it boils, then stop whisk- ing at once, and allow it to boil for two or three minutes. Lower the gas to half full, and let the jelly stand for twenty minutes. Pour a quart of boiling water through the jelly bag into a basin. Empty the basin, dry, and replace it, pour the jelly in the bag. When a little of it has passed through, see if it is clear. If not quite limpid, change the basin and pour the jelly through again. Do this again until it runs quite clear. When it has partly cooled, add to it two wine-glassfuls of Ivirsch or white curagoa. Bear in mind that the jelly must be quite colourless, so that orange-coloured curagoa or any other coloured liquor must be avoided. Pour the jelly in the mould, and drop in two or three leaves of silver. Do not touch these with the fingers, but hold the little book which contains them over the jelly, and drop the122 The Art of Cooking by Gas. silver in. Stir gently with a thin skewer to break the silver in small pieces and prevent it from settling all in one part, as it has a tendency to do. Then set the jelly on ice until wanted. Dip the mould quickly in warm water, wipe all moisture with a cloth, and turn out on a dish to serve. The above recipe will serve for all sweet jellies, with trifling alterations as to flavouring and colour. It will give a jelly firm enough to stand well, yet delicate to eat. Always rinse jelly-bags after using, and keep them clean and dry. Three quarts of jelly made as above will amply serve twenty-four people. Stilton Cheese, Celery, and Pulled Bread. This cheese, having a clean, neatly-folded serviette fast- ened round it, can be placed before the host, who scoops it in small pieces and puts these on a plate to be handed round ; or it can be served, ready cut, from the side table. Celery in neatly-trimmed branches, butter in tiny pats or balls, biscuits and pulled bread, accompany the cheese. Pulled Bread.—Remove the crust from a new loaf and pull it in rough pieces two or three inches square. Lay these on a baking tin, and put them in the oven of the kitchener with the gas three-quarter full on, and turn the pieces of bread once or twice to colour them evenly. When they are a pale golden brown, they are ready. This should be used soon after it is made, stale pulled bread being anything but palatable. The crust, dried in the oven, grated, and rubbed through a sieve, will make brown bread-crumbs.123 HOME DINNERS. We now come to a class of dinners more specially de- signed for home use, and in the working out of which a Charing Cross kitchener, such as described on page io, and a Parisienne roaster (see page 7), will do all that is required. These dinners are intended for a number of six to twelve persons, the initial quantities given for six, and easily extended in the same proportions to suit ten, twelve, or even fifteen guests. The quantities given will perhaps strike one as somewhat large in proportion to those given in the foregoing recipes for twenty-four guests ; but it must be borne in mind that the dishes being fewer a larger quantity of each will be necessary for each person. Thus a man who in the course of the Christmas dinner has partaken of soup, fish, and entrees, and has “a lively sense of future flavours,” will only want a slice, two or three ounces at the most, of roast beef. But the same man will eat probably half a pound of meat or more if he makes his entire dinner “off” the joint, potatoes and vegetables being almost the sole accompaniment. By grouping round this joint such dishes as give variety to the daily pabulum, and taking note of the average quantity required by a family gifted with excellent appetites, a result has been arrived at which will be found a very reliable guide in ordering quantities for any given number. JANUARY. Mulligatawny. Scallops in Shells. Roast Pig. Apple Sauce. Potato Ribbons. Celery in Gravy. Pancakes. Croustades of Marrow. Mulligatawny. Coquilles de St. Jacques. Cochon de Lait Rod. Pure'e de Pommes. Rubans de Pommes de Terre. Celeri au Jus. CrSpes. Croustades h la Moelle.I24 The Art of Cooking by Gas. Mulligatawny. Put one ounce of butter in a stewpan over the gas turned three-quarter full on. When melted, add two sliced onions, a sliced carrot, two rashers of bacon cut in small pieces, a large apple sliced (when apples are not available, replace this by the strained juice of half a lemon), a bunch of herbs —parsley, marjoram, thyme, and a bay-leaf, tied together— a dessert-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, a tea-spoonful of salt, and twenty peppercorns. Fry all these a light brown, add three pints of good ordinary stock, boil up, and skim care- fully. In the meantime, mix in a basin a dessert-spoonful of mulligatawny paste with a little cold water, add half a tea-spoonful of curry powder, stir gradually into the stock, and skim. Cut up a wild rabbit in small pieces, put these in the stock, and bring up to boiling-point again. Reduce the gas to half full on and simmer for an hour. Take the pieces of rabbit out, and rub the soup through a wire sieve; return it to the stewpan, which has been rinsed and wiped. Put it on the gas, three-quarter full on, to heat thoroughly. Cut the meat of the rabbit in neat pieces an inch square, taking care that no pieces of broken bones cling to them. Put the pieces in the hot soup tureen, pour the soup over them, and squeeze in through a strainer a few drops of lemon juice. Hand round boiled rice and fried croutons with this soup. Kice for Curries, Mulligatawny, etc. Patna rice is the best to use for these ■, it gets soft without breaking, and presents a much better appearance than Caro- lina rice. It is easily distinguishable in shape, being longer and straighter than Carolina, which is of a pointed oval shape. Put a quarter of a pound of Patna rice in a large stewpan with plenty of cold water. Set the pan over the gas turned half full on and bring to boiling-point slowly. Strain off thisHome Dinners—January. 125 water. Wash the rice thoroughly under the cold water tap. Put it again in the pan, this time with boiling water and a tea-spoonful of salt; simmer it for twelve minutes. 1 urn it out in a colander, drain it well, cover it with a cloth, and keep it in the oven for an hour. It will then look snowy white, and each grain will be separate from the others. Scallops in Shells. Open two dozen scallops, beard them, chop them up finely, add to them a slice of bread free from crust, soaked in gravy and squeezed to remove the superfluous moisture. Mix well together. Wash and cleanse thoroughly six of the best shells of the scallops ; dry them, and butter the inside of them. Divide the mixture amongst the shells. Melt an ounce of butter in a saucepan, mix in an ounce of flour smoothly. Pour in through a strainer, a quarter of a pint of hot milk, in which the beards and liquor of the scallops and half a shallot have been simmered for a quarter of an hour. Add a table-spoonful of French white wine, and stir the sauce till it boils. Turn the gas low. Add two yolks of eggs beaten with a tea-spoonful of lemon juice, and a little cayenne pepper. Strain the sauce over the scallops so as to cover them, and sprinkle a few brown bread-crumbs over them. Put the scallops on a baking-tin in the oven, pre- viously heated for ten minutes, and bake them for twenty minutes. Sprinkle upon each a little chopped-up parsley, and serve hot. The best shells should be washed, dried, and kept for use when silver or china shells are not available. (See “ Chicken Bechamel.”) Roast Sucking Pig. Full directions for stuffing and roasting a sucking pig are given on page 41. Cold sucking pig is best warmed up with sauce Robert.i 26 The Art of Cooking by Gas. Apple Sauce. Pare and core half a dozen large apples, cut them in quarters. Put them in a saucepan with just enough water to keep them moist, an ounce of castor sugar or more if the apples are very sour, and two cloves. Simmer gently over the gas, turned three-quarter full on, stirring now and then. When the apple is reduced to a pulp rub it through a sieve. Put it back in the saucepan, which has been rinsed and wiped, stir in an ounce of fresh butter and the juice of half a lemon strained. Heat without boiling, and serve. Potato Ribbons. Wash and peel three pounds of large potatoes. Put them in clean cold water one by one until they are all peeled. Take them up and wipe them, then, with a small sharp knife, cut them round and round in ribbons, as if peeling them. The ribbons should not be less than one- eighth of an inch thick, or they will be too brittle. Put them, a few at a time, in the frying-basket, and plunge them in hot fat for three or four minutes. Drain them on a hot cloth, and pile up on a dish with a little fine salt sprinkled over them. Braised Celery. Wash six small heads of celery. Cut off the leaves and tops and trim the roots, so as to make the pieces about four inches long. Put them in boiling water over the gas turned three-quarter full on, and blanch them for ten minutes. Throw them in cold water, wash them in several waters, make sure there is no dirt or grit left between the shoots, and let them lie in water until quite cold. Drain them thoroughly. Put them in a stewpan with an onion and a carrot sliced, a bunch of herbs, a pint of stock, a salt-spoon- ful of salt, and a pinch of pepper. Cover them with a buttered paper and the lid of the stewpan. Turn the gas toHome Dinners—January. 127 half full on, and stew gently for two hours to two hours and a half according to the thickness of the celery. Add a little stock occasionally as the liquor reduces by boiling. When a fork or skewer passes through it easily it is done. Drain and wipe each piece carefully. Lay them on a hot dish, three side by side, two over these, and one on the top. Pour over them a good brown sauce. The liquor in which they have simmered is a good flavouring for soup. Pancakes. Put in a basin one pound of sifted flour, with a pinch of salt. Break and mix in gradually three whole eggs. When well mixed, add gradually three-quarters of a pint of milk, stir and mix thoroughly; let this batter rest for at least three hours. Half an hour before using, stir into it a table-spoon- ful of Lucca oil, a table-spoonful of brandy, and a dessert- spoonful of orange-flower water. When ready to make the pancakes put the shallow frying-pan over the frying burner turned full on, and melt in a piece of fat, butter, or lard, the size of a small walnut. Shake the pan well to make the fat go all over it, then wipe thoroughly with a rough cloth. Put another piece of fat in the pan and melt it, pour in just enough batter to cover thinly the bottom of the pan (about three-quarters of a soup ladleful). Fry for three minutes, occasionally loosening the edges with a fork, so that they do not stick to the pan and burn. When the pancake slips easily in the pan, toss it and cook the other side for two minutes. Have the door of the griller open, a baking-tin put in the place of the grid and pan, and the gas turned half full on in the griller, when beginning to fry the pancakes. Turn the pancake out on the dish, dredge it with castor sugar, and roll it up in a long thin roll. Make the rest of the pancakes in the same manner. When they are all done and rolled up, dredge the the outside with icing sugar, turn the gas full on in the1 28 • The Art of Cooking by Gas. griller, leave the pancakes under it for three minutes, dish them quickly on a hot dish, and serve with very hot plates. Send castor sugar, and lemon cut in quarters, up to the table with pancakes. Croustades of Marrow. Split a large marrow-bone and take out the marrow. Put it in a small saucepan with enough water to cover it well, and a pinch of salt. Set this over the gas turned three- quarter full on, bring up to boiling-point,, then take out the marrow and lay it in cold water. When cold, drain it and pound it with the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, add a table-spoonful of chopped-up parsley, a very little thyme, a pinch of salt, and a little cayenne pepper, Mix well. Cut and fry some croustades as directed on page 50. Place them on a baking-tin. Spread the mixture on them, with a few brown bread-crumbs on the top, and put them in the hot oven for ten minutes. Put on the top of each just before serving a tiny pinch of pounded lobster coral, or chopped-up parsley. FEBRUARY. Croute au Pot. Fried Cod. Haggis. Potatoes in cases. Cabbage. Roast Wild Duck. Orange Gravy. Pine-Apple Cream. Scotch Woodcock. Crofite au Pot. Cabillaud Frit. Haggis. Pommes de Terre en caisses. Choux. Canard Sauvage Roti. Sauce Bigarade. Creme a 1’Ananas. Scotch Woodcock. Croute au Pot. Trim and wash a small cabbage. Cut it in quarters and leave it for an hour in salt and water with a table-spoonful of vinegar. Put it in a stewpan with enough light stock to cover it. It must not be barely covered, but the stock must be at least two inches deep over it. Add an ounce of butter, or, if available, an ounce of the fat leftHome Dinners—February. 129 after roasting a fowl. This should be clarified by putting it in boiling water and letting it stand until cold, when it will be ready for use. It is very tasty and useful for many purposes. Put a carrot and an onion stuck with two cloves in with the cabbage, and a pinch of salt. Set the stewpan over the gas, turned half full on, and simmer gently for an hour. Ascertain that the cabbage is done by pricking it lightly. In the meantime prepare three pints of good stock in the following manner : Put the stock, free from fat and sedi- ment, in a stewpan with six small carrots, six small turnips, six 'leeks cut in two-inch lengths. If this soup is made in early summer, when vegetables are small and young, the carrots and turnips should be put in whole ; at other seasons pare and cut them in pieces the size and shape of pigeons’ eggs. Set the stewpan over the gas, turned half full on, and simmer until the vegetables are tender, skimming carefully. (Of course, if these are young they will cook more quickly than if they are pieces cut from full-grown vegetables, so no exact rule can be given as to time.) Cut the top crust off a large tin loaf, and remove the crumb attached to it. Dip it quickly in the boiling soup, and put it, the hollow side downwards, on a baking-tin ; pour upon it a spoonful or two of clarified fat from a roasted fowl, as indicated above. Put the tin in the oven, previously lighted for ten minutes, and let the crust get evenly brown and crisp, occasionally basting it with a little more fat. When about to serve the soup, put the crust on a hot flat dish (a silver or plated oval dish looks the best), drain thoroughly the cabbage and arrange it in four little mounds round the crust. Strain the soup into the hot soup-tureen, and garnish the crust and cabbage with the vegetables, neatly sorted in little groups. Do this quickly, so that nothing has time to get cold, and serve at once. This is the real French croute au pot, according to the best and most practical method of preparing it. The cabbage is cooked separately, so as not to communicate too J13° The Art of Cooking by Gas strong a taste of its own to the soup. The stock in which it has boiled is good for vegetable soups. The dish con- taining the crust, etc., is placed by the carver, who cuts the crust lengthwise with a sharp knife and divides each length in three or four smaller pieces. The dish is then handed round to each person with a plateful of soup. It is well to put a fork as well as a spoon on the dish. Fried Cod. Cut slices an inch thick from the middle of a medium- sized fish. Dry and flour them. Cover them with egg and bread-crumbs on both sides, and fry in hot fat. Allow one slice to each person. Dish up on a hot dish, and garnish with fried parsley and sliced lemon. Serve with melted butter. Hollandaise, bearnaise, and tartare sauce are also suitable. Haggis. Take a very fresh sheep’s pluck, wash the stomach well, and leave it in cold water and salt for several hours. Turn it inside out carefully, put it in a basin of boiling water, and as soon as the hands can bear the heat of the water, scrape the stomach thoroughly, making sure there are no holes or thin places in it. Put it in clean cold water ready for use. Prick the heart and the liver in several places with a trussing or larding needle, wash them and the lights in plenty of cold water until clean and free from blood. Blanch them for a quarter of an hour in boiling water over the gas turned three-quarter full on. Throw this water away, and put the liver and lights in the saucepan again. Cover with boiling water, set the pan over the gas half full on, and simmer for an hour; add the heart, and simmer for half an hour longer. Chop finely half a pound of suet, slice two onions, put them with half an ounce of butter in a small stewpan, and try them to a blight brown, shaking them well about. Turn tlum out and chop themHome Dinners—February. 131 up finely. Toast half a pound of plain oat-cakes in the griller for two minutes on each side, rub them through a wire sieve. Strain the pluck, chop it up finely, add it to the suet in a basin, mix it well in, add the oat-cake crumbs, the onions, a tea-spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of black pepper, and one of grated nutmeg. Strain in the juice of a lemon. When this is all well mixed, put it in the stomach, which has been well rinsed and dried and turned the right side out- wards. Do not fill it more than three-quarters full or it may burst. Sew the opening very securely, and plunge the bag in boiling water over the gas turned three-quarter full on. As the water comes up again to boiling-point, prick the bag here and there with a sharp needle to allow the expanded air to escape. When the water boils, reduce the gas to half full on, and simmer for three hours, occasionally pricking the bag as before. Turn it out carefully on a very hot dish, and serve at once. Potatoes in Cases. Choose six large potatoes of good oval shape, and as much as possible of one size. Scrub them with care, and wash them very clean. Wipe them and put them in the oven to bake for fifty minutes. When done, take them out, wipe them and cut length- wise about a third off the top. Scoop out all the inside of the potatoes, and rub it through a wire sieve. Put it in a small stewpan over the gas turned three-quarter full on, with two ounces of butter, and mix well. Add the yolks of two raw eggs, turn the gas low, and stir the eggs well in. Season with a salt-spoonful of salt and a pinch of pepper. Lastly, stir in three table-spoonfuls of cream and a salt- spoonful of grated nutmeg. Fill the potato cases with the mixture, piling it up in the middle, smooth it over with a knife, put a little warm butter, and a few brown bread-crumbs on the top. Lay the132 The Art of Cooking by Gas. potatoes in the griller previously turned full on for five minutes, and reducing the gas to three-quarter full on, brown the potatoes for six or eight minutes. Boiled Savoy Cabbage. Cut the stalk off the cabbage, remove all faded and outer leaves. Cut the cabbage in quarters, and after washing it well, lay it in a pan of cold water with a table-spoonful of vinegar, and one of salt, this will draw out any isnects that may remain between the leaves. Leave the cabbage in the water for about an hour, drain it in a colander. Put a large saucepan half-full of cold water over the gas turned full on, add a dessert-spoonful of salt. Let this boil up, put the cabbage in, and boil it without a lid for thirty minutes. Drain it as soon as it is done, pressing out the moisture thoroughly. Melt in a stewpan an ounce of butter, put the cabbage in, add a salt-spoonful of salt and a pinch of pepper. Stir well and serve at once. Roast Wild Duck. Heat the roaster for ten minutes, and put a spoonful of good beef dripping in the pan. Spit a brace of wild ducks securely, and start the turnspit. Allow five minutes with the gas full on, fifteen minutes with it half full on, and turn it full on again for five minutes to brown. Baste liberally, especially at the beginning. Be sure to time the cooking so that the birds will not have to wait, for, if overdone, they are utterly spoiled. Garnish with watercress, and send bigarade sauce, lemon cut in quarters, and cayenne pepper to the table with the ducks. Bigarade Sauce.—Pare a Seville orange very thinly, shred this rind, and put it in a small saucepan with half a pint of cold water over the gas turned three-quarter full on, and bringi33 Home Dinners—Febr ua r r. it to boiling-point. Strain off the water and wash the rind in cold water. Put three-quarters of a pint of good brown sauce in the saucepan, with two table-spoonfuls of sherry or Madeira, a little cayenne pepper, and a salt-spoonful of sugar. Let it boil until reduced to half a pint, skimming well while it boils. Strain it, add the rind, set the saucepan in the bain marie for ten minutes, or reduce the gas to half full on to keep the sauce hot without boiling. Squeeze and strain the juice of the orange, and just before serving, add this juice to the sauce. Pine-Apple Cream. Cut half a pound of preserved pine-apple in small pieces. Put half this quantity, with a table-spoonful of castor sugar and the liquor from the pine-apple, in a small saucepan, add a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. Set this over the gas turned three-quarter full on, and boil for ten minutes. Put an ounce of the best French gelatine in a stewpan, with a wine-glassful of water, and set it over the gas turned half full on to dissolve. Whip a pint of cream until quite stiff with a table-spoonful of castor sugar. In hot weather it will be best to stand the basin on ice. Mix in the fresh pieces of pine-apple, and also those which have been stewed in syrup, taking care that these and their syrup are nearly cold. Strain in the gelatine. Mix all these ingre- dients. Have ready a mould ornamented with red jelly, or some preserved fruit held in place with a little jelly (see page 121). This should be done beforehand, and kept ready in a cold place so that the jelly is quite set. Pour the cream in and stir it gently for a few minutes so as to prevent the pieces of pine-apple from setting all in one place. Leave the cream in a cold room, or on ice until wanted. Dip the mould quickly in hot water, wipe all moisture, and turn out on a dish.134 The Art of Cooking by Gas. Scotch Woodcock. Cut two large slices of stale bread, remove the crust, toast and butter the bread on both sides. Soak in cold water six or eight anchovies, according to their size. Wash, bone, and scrape them thoroughly; dry and pound them with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, and two ounces of fr'esh butter, colour with a little lobster butter (see “ Lobster Sauce ”), or a few drops of carmine. Add a very little cayenne pepper, and rub the whole through a sieve. Spread this mixture on one of the pieces of toast, and put the other piece over. Press them together. Cut through the middle lengthwise, and divide each half in pieces about one inch wide. Dish these round, one overlapping the other. Warm two ounces of butter in a saucepan over the gas turned half-full- on, mix a quarter of a pint of cream with two raw yolks of eggs well-beaten, add this to the butter with a pinch of salt, and a little cayenne pepper. Stir until thick and creamy-looking, but do not let the sauce boil; pour it through a strainer over the toast, and serve hot. MARCH. Diver de Care me. Potage aux Hnitre;. Filets de Sole en Aspic. Pat6 de Saumon. G alettes de Pommes de terre. Panais a la Cr6me. Buisson d’Ecrevisses. Pomme; au P.iz. Canapti d’Anchois. Oyster Soup. Open carefully a dozen and a half oysters, pour off the liquor in a small basin, beard the oysters, be sure no broken pieces of shell adhere to them, put them aside. Put two ounces of butter in a stewpan, melt it over the gas turned three-quarter full on, mix in smoothly two ounces of fine Lent Dinner. Oyster Soup. Fillets of Sole in Aspic. Raised Salmon Pie. . Potato Cakes. Parsnips with Cream. Bush of Crayfish. Apples and Rice. Anchovies on Toast.Home Dinners—March. 135 sifted flour, fry without discolouring for five minutes, add three pints of good white fish-stock, the beards of the oysters, and their liquor strained. Stir all these gently until the soup boils, then reduce the gas to half full on, and simmer for half an hour, skimming carefully. Strain the soup, and return it to the stewpan, which has been rinsed and wiped. Beat three yolks of eggs with a quarter of a pint of cream, and a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, add this gradually to the soup, stirring to mix it well. Heat it tho- roughly, but do not allow it to boil. Have ready some boiling water in a saucepan over the gas turned three- quarter full on. Put a strainer or wire-basket in this, and when the water boils again with the basket in it, just lift the basket above the water, put the oysters in, and plunge them in the boiling water for half a minute at the most. Put the oysters in the hot soup-tureen, and pour the soup over them. Serve with a royal custard, made like that on page 66, but coloured a bright red with a few drops of car- mine, and cut it in small fancy shapes. Or serve the soup with small fried croutons on a separate plate. Fillets of Sole in Aspic. Wash and skin a fine sole, fillet it. For this make an incision down the middle of the fish along the back-bone. Then, holding the knife nearly flat on the fish, slip it between the flesh and the bone all the way down, make another cut just inside the edge of the sole, and lift off the fillet. Having removed the four fillets in the same way, put them on the table and bat them flat with a knife dipped in cold water. Put a little salt and a few drops of lemon juice on each fillet, lay them on a buttered baking-tin and cover them with a buttered paper. Light the gas in the oven for ten minutes. Put the fillets in to cook for eight or ten minutes, according to their thickness. When they look white and opaque they are done. Put them aside to coolThe Art of Cooking by Gas. i36 between two dishes to keep them flat. Take them out, stamp them into rounds an inch and three-quarters in diameter. Each fillet ought to yield four of these. Shell a freshly-boiled hen lobster without splitting it down the middle. Divide the tail in slices a quarter of an inch thick and stamp them to the same size and shape as the fillets. Wash, dry, and rub the coral through a sieve, spread it on the pieces of lobster. Chop very finely some well picked and washed parsley, wrap it in the corner of a cloth, dip it in cold water and wring it dry to improve its colour; spread it on the fillets of sole. Cover both kinds of fillets with aspic jelly, just warm enough to be soft, but not liquid, put them in a cool place, or on ice, to set. Line a turban mould with aspic jelly, turning it well about so that it spreads evenly. Lift one by one, the fillets of sole and pieces of lobster, trim the jelly round them, and arrange them alternately round the mould, each slightly overlapping the other and put a little slantingly, so that the ornamented side will be outwards when the aspic is turned out. Put the rest of the jelly in a forcing-bag and fill the mould with it in all parts. Put it in a cool place, or on ice, to set. Make half a pint of mayon- naise sauce. Break in small pieces a young lettuce, cut all the trimmings of the fillets of sole and the lobster very small. Season these and the salad with a little pepper and salt and a dessert-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, stir in half the mayonnaise and a quarter of a pint of aspic jelly chopped up finely. Dip the mould in warm water, wipe it dry, and turn the aspic out on a cold dish. Pile up the salad in the middle, add a few drops of tarragon vinegar, a little pepper and salt to the remainder of the mayonnaise, which ought to be very stiff. Cover the salad with it. Sprinkle a little lobster coral on it and stick a sprig of chervil on the top. Put chopped-up aspic round the turban. Serve at once, or keep on ice until wanted. One quart of jelly will be sufficient for this dish.i37 Home Dinners—March. Raised Salmon Pie. It is necessary for this to have a hinged mould which can be opened and closed at will. These moulds are sold in round and oval shapes. Assuming the mould to be six or seven inches in diameter, make a paste in the following manner. Rub a pound and a half of fine flour through a sieve set over the pastry-board or slab. Gather it in a mound and rub into it three-quarters of a pound of butter, add a dessert-spoonful of salt and make into a stiff paste with about half a pint of water, added gradually until the paste is firm and smooth, flour the table and roll the paste into a ball. If well made, it will stick neither to the table nor to the fingers. Cover it and let it rest'for half an hour. Then cut off a quarter of the paste and put it aside for the cover of the pie. Flour the roller and table, roll out the rest of the paste to rather more than a quarter of an inch thick, and shape it with the hands to form a sort of pouch. Press the paste evenly out so that there are no thin places, lift it with care and line the mould with it, pressing it well to the bottom and sides, so as to make it fit the mould. Cut the paste off all round, leaving it higher than the mould by at least half an inch. Fill it as indicated below. Roll out half the paste that is left to the thickness of an eighth of an inch. Put it on the pie and cut it off all round. Press the edges of pie and cover well together, and ornament the edge. Roll out the rest of the paste and trimmings, brush the first cover with water and put the second over it. Make a hole, half an inch in diameter, through both covers. Brush the upper one with beaten egg and lightly score it in rays from the centre with the point of a knife. Put the pie in the oven, which has been lighted full on for half an hour. Bake for two hours with the gas three-quarter full on. If the top crust browns too rapidly cover it with a buttered paper. Leave the pie for five or six minutes in the mould, after taking it out of the oven, then, through a small funnel placed in the138 The Art of Cooking by Gar. hole at the top, pour about half a pint of very good fish gravy {see below) just hot, but not boiling, or it might come through the crust. Open the mould. Put the pie on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, prawns, and sliced lemon, and serve at once. This pie is also excellent cold. If served cold it must be made at least twelve hours before it is eaten. To fill the Pie.—Skin and bone two or three whiting so that they yield about a pound of flesh. Pound this with half a pound of butter and half a pound of panade {see page 195). Add a pinch of pepper, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg. Beat two yolks of eggs with a quarter of a pint of fish stock {see below), add these to the farce and mix well. Next prepare two pounds of salmon, by removing the skin and bone, and divide the flesh in slices half an inch thick and about two inches long. Pepper and salt these on both sides. Melt two ounces of butter in a saute pan over the gas, turned three-quarter full on, put in the pieces of salmon and cook them for five minutes, turning them over to do them evenly. Drain them and let them cool. Spread a layer of farce at the bottom of the pie, and arrange over it a layer of sliced salmon ; put on another layer of farce and another of salmon, and so on to the top, finishing with a layer of farce. (A couple of truffles are a great improvement, and should be put in thin slices on each layer of salmon.) Cover the pie as directed above, and bake. Make a good fish stock as directed on page 56, using in the present instance the heads and bones of the whitings, the bones of the salmon, and also the bones of the soles and shells of the lobster left from the previous dish. Allow a quart of water to simmer these in. This quantity will yield a pint and a half of good stock, which having been well skimmed and strained, will be divided as follows :— 1. For the farce.—Melt one ounce of butter over the gasi39 Home Dinners—March. turned three-quarter full on ; mix smoothly with it an ounce of flour, fry for five minutes without discolouring, add half a pint of the fish stock and a little pepper and salt, stir until it is boiling, then reduce the gas to half full on, simmer for twenty minutes, strain, cool, and use with the yolks of eggs to moisten the farce. 2. When the pie is nearly done, put the pint of stock that is left and half a wine-glassful of sherry or Madeira in a small saucepan over the gas turned full on. If truffles have been used in making the pie, add the parings to the stock. Boil without a lid until the gravy is reduced to half the quantity, skimming it carefully. Stir in a tea-spoonful of lemon juice, strain the gravy, and let it cool for a minute or two. Pour it in the pie through a funnel, and serve. If the pie is eaten cold, the gravy need only be put in lukewarm half an hour after the pie has been removed from the oven. Potato Cakes. Boil three pounds of potatoes. Peel them, rub them through a wire sieve into a basin, add a salt-spoonful of salt and a pinch of pepper, two ounces of dissolved butter, and about a quarter of a pint of milk poured in gradually. The mixture must be soft, yet firm enough to keep in shape. Beat a yolk of egg and stir it in. Light the gas in the griller, and remove the grid and pan. Butter a baking-tin, and divide the potatoes in pieces rather larger than an egg. Pat these into round cakes barely half an inch thick. Lay them on the baking-tin with a piece of butter on each. Put the tin under the griller. When the cakes begin to turn colour (in about five minutes), turn them over, put another little piece of butter on each and a pinch of brown bread- crumbs. In five minutes more they will be ready. Arrange them round a dish, each overlapping the other, and sprinkle a little finely chopped-up parsley on them.The Art of Cooking by Gas. 140 Parsnips with Cream. Peel and wash six fine parsnips, divide them in quarters lengthwise, remove the middle of each, which is apt to be hard and fibrous; divide the rest in pieces the size and shape of small walnuts. Put these in a stewpan with a quart of water, a tea-spoonful of lemon juice, and a pinch of salt. Set the stewpan over the gas turned three-quarter full on, bring to boiling-point, then turn out the parsnips in a colander, and let them drain well. Melt two ounces of butter in the stewpan and put the parsnips in. Shake them well in the butter for a few minutes, add half a pint of Bechamel sauce (maigre), a quarter of a pint of cream, pepper, and salt. Cover with a buttered paper and the lid, reduce the gas to half full on, and simmer for half an hour. Put the parsnips in a hot dish. Mix a table-spoonful of lemon juice with the sauce, pour it over the parsnips, and sprinkle over them a dessert-spoonful of finely chopped-up parsley. Serve hot. Bechamel Maigre.—Pare and cut in small pieces an onion, a small carrot, and half a shallot. Melt an ounce of butter in a small stewpan over the gas turned three-quarter full on. Put in the vegetables, fry them for five minutes without dis- colouring, mix in smoothly an ounce of fine sifted flour, add half a pint of milk, a sprig of parsley, a pinch of salt, a pinch of pepper, and a dust of nutmeg. Continue stirring until the sauce boils, pass it through a tammy cloth or a fine strainer, and use. This sauce is also useful for warming up cold fish. For Bechamel grasse, that is to say made with white stock, see page 251. Bush of Crayfish. Wash free from sand twenty-four fine crayfish. Put a quart of water in a stewpan, add a wine-glassful of white wine, a carrot and an onion sliced, two or three sprigs ofHome Dinners—March. 141 parsley, a laurel-leaf, a tea-spoonful of salt, a pinch of pepper. Set this over the gas turned three-quarter full on, boil up and skim. Put the crayfish in head foremost and one by one, so as not to check too much the boiling 0/ the water. Cover the pan, and cook for ten minutes, shaking the pan several times. When done, they will be a bright red. Take them out, see that none of the vegetables, etc., cling to them, dress them quickly on a stand, set on a hot dish over a neatly folded serviette. Garnish the dish with parsley, and serve hot. The liquor is useful for fish stock. Apples and Rice. Pare and core six medium-sized cooking apples. Put a • pound of sugar in a stewpan with a pint of water and a tea- spoonful of lemon juice. Set this over the gas turned three- quarter full on, and bring to boiling-point. Skim. Put in the apples and cook them till tender, but not broken. They will take more or less time according to their kind. When done a skewer will pass through them easily. In the meantime wash and pick a quarter of a pound of Carolina rice. Put it in a stewpan with a pint of cold water over the gas turned three-quarter full on, and when it boils, turn the rice out in a colander, wash it under the cold-water tap, and drain it. Return it to the stewpan with half a pint of milk, a tea- spoonful of yellow lemon rind chopped small, and a table- spoonful of castor sugar. Let it boil up, and reduce the gas to half-full on. Simmer for twenty-five minutes, adding a little more milk if necessary, yet keeping it rather firm. When it is done, stir in two yolks of eggs. Pile, up the rice on a hot dish, and smooth it over to form a firm basis for the apples. Arrange five apples in a ring on this. Put a little apricot marmalade in the hole left by taking out the core. Cut some angelica in leaves an inch long and not quite half an inch broad. Stick five of these round theThe Art of Cooking by Gas. 142 opening of each apple, and drop in the middle a preserved cherry. The. apples ought not to be set quite upright, but inclined a little on one side so that the ornamentation is displayed to better advantage. Put the remaining apple on the top, and ornament it in the same manner. In the mean- time turn the gas full on under the stewpan containing the syrup, skim it, and colour it with a little saffron, boil up, and pour it through a strainer round the rice. All tins must be done quickly so that the apples do not get cold. Croustades of Anchovies. Prepare six round croutons, two inches in diameter, fried in hot fat and well drained. Bone and wash six anchovies. Boil two eggs for five minutes, throw them in cold water until quite cold and set, shell them, cut them open, and pound the yolks with the anchovies and three ounces of fresh butter, add a very little cayenne pepper, and colour with a few drops of carmine. Rub the whites of the eggs through a wire sieve, and have the same bulk of chopped up chervil. Sprinkle the egg and chervil alternately on the croutons. Put the anchovy puree in a forcing-bag with a rose pipe, and squeeze a piece the size of a walnut on each crouton. Keep cool until wanted. Onion Soup. Sole au Gratin. Fricandeau. Sorrel. Potatoes (steamed). Snow Eggs. Devilled Shrimps. APRIL. Potage k l’Oignon. Sole au Gratin. Fricandeau. Puree d’Oseille. Pommes de terre a la Vapeur. CEufs k la Neige. Crevettes k la Diable. Onion Soup with Parmesan. Peel eight ounces of onions, cut a piece off the top and bottom of each and slice them in thin even slices. Blanchi43 Home Dinners—April. them for ten minutes in boiling water, this will make them more easy to cook and more digestible. Drain them well in a colander. Put an ounce and a half of butter in the stewpan, which has been carefully wiped. Melt it over the gas, put in the onions, and let them fry to a bright brown colour. Add an ounce of flour sifted, and dried, fry these together smoothly. Pour in three pints of light white stock, add a salt-spoonful of salt and one of pepper, and stir gently until the soup boils. Skim it, turn the gas down to half full on, and leave the soup to simmer for fifteen minutes. Rub it through a sieve. Return it to the stewpan, making sure first that no pieces of onion are left in it. Beat two yolks of eggs in a small basin with a quarter of a pint of hot soup taken from the pan and an ounce of butter. Pour the mixture in the hot soup tureen, and pour the soup over. Stir gently to mix well, and serve at once. The plates must be very hot. Hand round fried dice of bread on one plate, and grated Parmesan or Gruyere cheese on another. This soup can also be prepared with fish stock for the Lenten season. Sole an Gratin. Remove the black skin of a fine sole, and scrape clean the other side. Cut off the head and trim off the fins and tail. Wash the fish well, dry it in a cloth. On the side from which the black skin has been removed make an inci- sion with the point of a sharp knife along the backbone, and on both sides of it, but without cutting through it. Hold the knife in a slanting position to do this. Take an oval dish which will hold the fish and stand fire, put an ounce of butter in it. Melt this over the gas, add a wine- glassful of white wine, a pinch of salt, a small pinch of pepper. Put the sole in and cover it with Italienne sauce (see below). Light the gas for ten minutes in the oven, put the dish in, and strew over the sole enough brown bread-144 The Art of Cooking by Gas. crumbs to cover it thinly all over. Cook it for a quarter of an hour. Light the gas in the griller for five minutes, put the dish under it for three minutes, and serve very hot in the same dish. These directions are suitable for a large thick sole sufficient for six persons. For smaller fish the proportions must be altered accordingly. Italienne Sauce.—Boil a quarter of a pint of white wine over the gas until it is reduced to half the quantity. ’ Melt an ounce of butter in a small stewpan, and mix with it smoothly an ounce of fine sifted flour. Stir until it looks a light brown. Add half a pint of good stock, the re- duced, wine, a pinch of salt, and a little pepper. Stir this gently over the gas turned three-quarter full on, and cook for twelve minutes. Then add a table-spoonful of mushrooms which have been blanched in boiling water for five minutes, and chopped up small, a tea-spoonful of shallot also blanched and chopped up, and a table- spoonful of finely chopped-up parsley. Stir again to mix well for two minutes, skim and use. This sauce is very tasty and useful. Fricandeau. Cut a piece of the fillet of veal three inches thick, and weighing about three pounds. Remove the bone and trim the meat to a good shape. Lard it. For this, take fat bacon, cut in slices rather less than a quarter of an inch thick, divide it in strips of the same thickness, and about an inch and three-quarters long. Put one of these strips in the larding-needle, cover the left hand with a clean cloth, and put it under the meat. Prick the needle through the top of the meat to the depth of a quarter of an inch, and bring it out again three-quarters of an inch further, pull it through, and the lardon will remain in the passage thus made. Pull the two ends evenly, and repeat the operation half an inch further. Make the second row half an inch under the first, pricking the meat between the first and secondJ45 Home Dinners—April. lardon, between the second and third, etc. (see Fig. 25). Make the third row half an inch further below, putting the lardons directly under those of the first row, and so on to the end, each row alternating with the previous one. Turn the veal over and lard the other side in the same way. Melt two ounces of butter in a stewpan. Slice a carrot, two onions, a small turnip, add a stick of celery, a bunch of herbs, three cloves, and six bruised peppercorns; Put these in the stewpan in an even layer, adding the bone and K146 The Art of Cooking by Gas. trimmings of the meat and of the bacon. Lay the veal on this, covered with a buttered paper and the lid, fry for fifteen minutes over the gas three-quarter full on. Pour in slowly, at the side of the pan, half a pint of good beef or veal stock. Cover and put the braising burner on the lid. Have this and the under-burner turned half full on so that the heat will be even. If no braising-burner is at hand put the covered pan in the oven previously lighted for ten minutes, and turn the gas to a little more than half full on. Three hours of slow cooking will bring this dish to perfection. It must be basted occasionally with its own gravy to glaze it, a little hot stock being added now and then as the gravy reduces. When it is done and looks a bright brown, put it on a hot dish, remove the fat from the gravy, and pour it through a strainer round the fricandeau. It can be served on a puree of sorrel, but for the purpose of carving, this is best put on a separate dish and handed round. Sorrel. Wash very clean three pounds of freshly-picked sorrel. Remove discoloured leaves, and break off all the stalks. Put it in a saucepan of boiling water, with a tea-spoonful of salt over the gas three-quarter full on. Stir it with a wooden spoon for fifteen minutes while it is boiling, then pour it out on a wire-sieve set over a basin, and let it drain thoroughly. Put it on a clean board, and look it over care- fully, removing any discoloured part, little straws, etc., that might have remained unnoticed before boiling. Chop it up very finely. Put in a stewpan an ounce and a half of butter, and mix smoothly with it, over the gas three-quarter full on, one ounce of flour. Stir it well, add the sorrel and a quarter of a pint of good white stock, a little pepper and salt, reduce the gas to half full on, and simmer for thirty minutes. Mix in a basin two yolks of eggs, and two table-spoonfulsHome Dinners—April. M7 of cream, beat these lightly together, add them to the sorrel; stir it quickly, turn it out on a hot dish, and serve either plain or garnished croutons, poached eggs, or hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters. Potatoes Steamed. Some potatoes are better steamed than boiled, and it is well, when buying a new sack, to try the different ways, in order to ascertain which is the most suitable. A steamer fitting on a saucepan is the most convenient thing to use for this method of preparing potatoes. Scrub and wash the potatoes as for boiling, put them in the steamer with a little salt sprinkled over them, and half fill the saucepan with boiling water, put the steamer on and cover it with the lid firmly fixed on. Set the pan over the gas, turned three- quarter full on, and cook for forty-five minutes. Peel the potatoes and serve hot. Always bear in mind that in boiling or steaming potatoes they must be chosen all about the same size, or some will be overdone before the others are cooked. Snow Eggs. Put in a stewpan one pint and a half of new milk and an inch of vanilla pod. Set this on the gas turned half full on, and let it simmer for twenty minutes, to draw the flavour from the vanilla. Break six eggs, taking care they are very fresh, separate the yolks from the whites, and put them in different basins. Whisk the whites very stiff, adding from time to time a little sifted sugar (an ounce and a half altogether). The eggs must be whipped stiff enough to bear the weight of a whole egg put upon them. Take the vanilla out of the milk. Turn the gas full on to boil up, then reduce it to three-quarter full on, and drop large, irregular spoonfuls of white of egg in the milk, taking care not to put too many in at a time, so as to leave148 The Art of Cooking by Gas. room for turning them round. Turn them about in the milk with an egg-slice for three minutes, take them out and put them to drain on an inverted sieve. Repeat the operation until the whole of the snow is used. Strain the milk and make with it and the yolks of eggs a boiled custard (see page 158). Put this away to cool. • Arrange the snow piled up high on a glass dish, and pour the custard round. Keep in a cool place until ready for serving. It is necessary to beat the eggs in the coolest place available. If the weather is at all warm, put the basin on ice while whisking. Devilled Shrimps. Pick a pint and a half of freshly-boiled shrimps free from the shells. Roll them in Hour and fry them in hot fat like whitebait (see page 85). Drain them on a hot cloth, sprinkle a very little cayenne pepper over them. Dish them up on a hot dish covered with a lace paper, and strew over the top a pinch or two of finely chopped-up parsley. The heads and shells are a good flavouring for fish stock. Green Pea Soup. Grilled Salmon. Tartare Sauce. Roast Leg of Lamb. New Potatoes. Asparagus. Rhubarb Tart. Baked Custard. Sardines on Toast. MAY. Puree de Pois Verts. Saumon Grille. Sauce Tartare. Gigot d’Agneau. Pommes de Terre Nouvelles. Asperges. Tarte it la Rhubarbe. GSufs au Lait. Croustades de Sardines. Green Tea Soup. Take one pint of freshly-shelled green peas, well picked and washed. Put them in a stewpan with a quart of cold water, a tea-spoonful of sugar, a tea-spoonful of salt, a sprig of mint, a small onicn, and a small carrot. Set this over the gas, turned three-quarter full on, and boil for twenty-Home Dinners—May. 149 five to thirty minutes. When soft, strain them through a wire-sieve, a few at a time, into a basin. Take care to scrape the underpart of the sieve when the peas have been rubbed through, as a good deal adheres to it. Prepare three pints of stock by putting it, free from fat, in the stewpan with a little celery, a bay leaf, a carrot, a turnip, an onion. Set it over the gas, turned three-quarter full on, until it boils, skim and simmer it over the gas, turned half full on, for half an hour, skim it again, strain it over the puree of peas, taste and if necessary add a little more pepper and salt. Put the soup back in the stewpan and stir gently until nearly boiling, but do not let it boil. The peas can be boiled in the morning, strained and rubbed through the sieve, then covered and put aside. When wanted for the table, add the stock as above, and in five minutes the soup will be ready. Serve small dice of fried bread on a separate plate with this soup. Grilled Salmon—Tartare Sauce. Cut the salmon in slices one inch thick. To each steak allow one shallot, one gherkin, one anchovy, one tea-spoon- ful of chopped-up parsley, two table-spoonfuls of Lucca oil. Chop finely the shallot and gherkin. Wash the anchovies thoroughly to remove the salt, scale, dry, and chop them up; pick, wash, and chop up the parsley. Mix all these with the oil in a deep dish and lay the slices of salmon in it for an hour, turning them once or twice. Light the gas in the griller for five minutes, wipe the pan and grid. Put the slices of salmon on the grid and grill them for ten minutes. Turn the slices over and spread the oil and chopped ingre- dients on the top of each slice until all is used. Grill again for ten minutes. Lift carefully on to a very hot dish and serve with tartare sauce. Each slice will serve two persons. Roast Leg of Lamb. Light the gas in the roaster for ten minutes. Spit thei5° The Art of Cooking by Gas. leg securely and start the turnspit. Keep the gas full for five minutes, basting well at starting, reduce the gas to barely half full, and cook at the rate of five pounds an hour. Thus a five-pound leg will take five minutes with the gas full on, forty-five minutes with it half full on, and ten minutes with the gas full on again at the last to brown. -Serve with its own gravy, free from fat, and added to a quarter of a pint of good mutton gravy. On no account must the gravy be poured over the meat. Send mint sauce (see page 74) up with the lamb. New Potatoes (Boiled). See page 76. Three pounds of potatoes will amply serve six persons. Asparagus. Ascertain that the asparagus is fresh. If it is, the heads will be straight and stiff, and the cut white and moist. If it has turned brown and limp, the asparagus is stale. Allow twelve heads to each person. Scrape and wash the asparagus, and trim it in equal lengths, tie it in small bundles, lay it in cold water for an hour to keep it white and firm. Put enough cold water in an oblong saucepan to cover the asparagus, add a salt-spoonful of salt to each quart of water. Put the pan on the gas turned three-quarter full on, and when boiling, skim it; put the asparagus in, and as soon as the water boils again, reduce the gas a little and simmer for twenty-five to thirty minutes, according to the size of the heads. Lift them out carefully, drain and untie them. Lay them in a hot dish on a piece of toast made in the griller, and serve with melted butter. Special pans are made for boiling asparagus, which have a strainer like a fish-kettle. These are very convenient, and allow the cook to lift and drain the asparagus without fear of breaking it.Home Dinners—May. *5* Rhubarb Tart. Peel the rhubarb and cut in two-inch lengths. Put it in the pie-dish, adding twelve ounces of sugar to each pound of rhubarb, and a little yellow rind of lemon grated. Pile up the rhubarb dome-shape in the middle. Cover with short crust (see below). Light the gas in the oven for ten minutes, put the tart in on an asbestos baking sheet, and bake it for twenty to thirty minutes, according to size. A pie contained in a dish seven by five and a half inches, and two and a half inches deep, will take twenty minutes. A pie contained in dish nine by seven inches, and three inches deep, will take thirty minutes. Short Crust.—Rub five ounces of butter into half a pound of fine sifted flour, add the yolk of an egg, one ounce of castor sugar, a small pinch of salt, a few drops of lemon juice, . and as little water as will just make this into a stiff paste; handle as little as possible, roll out, and use at once. Cut a strip of this pastry, and line the edge of the dish with it. Wet it with a little cold water. Roll out the rest of the paste and cover the dish with it. Press the edges together. Cut the paste smoothly round, cutting rather under the edge of the dish, as the pastry shrinks in baking. Ornament the edge with a pastry-cutter, or simply with a knife. Baked Custard. Put a pint of new milk with an inch of vanilla pod in an enamelled saucepan. Set it over the gas turned half full on, and let it infuse for twenty minutes. Strain it and let it cool. Break three eggs in a basin, with a tiny pinch of salt, and a table-spoonful of castor sugar. Beat the eggs well, and add gradually the flavoured milk, which is only just tepid. Line and ornament the edge of a dish with short crust (.sw previous recipe). Pour in the custard throughiS2 The Art oe Cooking by Gas. a strainer and bake for thirty to thirty-five minutes in the oven. As custard and milk-puddings generally require longer baking and a lower temperature than pastry, it will be well in the present instance to bake the tart first, then turn the gas to half full on, let the oven cool for five minutes, and put in the custard. Five minutes before the custard is done put in the tart to make it hot again. To bake a custard when the oven has not been in use just previously, turn the gas full on for five minutes in the oven. Put the custard in, reduce the gas to half full on, and finish as directed above. Look at the custard now and then to see that it does not turn colour too quickly. The main point to be secured is that the custard shall be uniformly set throughout, so as to leave the dish quite dry when served, and only a gentle heat will do this. Too sharp a heat causes the custard to turn lumpy and watery. Sardines oil Toast. Use in preference the sardines that are ready boned. Lift eight sardines out of the tin. Wipe off the oil and skin, make sure there are no bones left in, cut off the tail. Pound the fish in a mortar with their own weight in butter, a tea-spoonful of lobster coral, a very little cayenne pepper, and ground mace. They will probably be salt enough without adding any more salt. Make some round croutons, two inches in diameter; fry them in hot fat, and drain them well. Spread the puree on these. Boil two eggs for five minutes, and throw them in cold water until they are quite cold and set. Shell them and rub the yolks and the whites separately through a wire-sieve. Cover half of each crouton with white, and the other with yellow. They are easily kept separate by holding a knife straight on edge in the middle of the crouton while putting the white and yellow on each half. Finish with a strip of gherkin, or a strip ofHome Dinners—June. i53 red chili, put between the two halves; keep cool until wanted. JUNE. Sorrel Soup. Curried Lobster. Roast Turkey Poult. Boiled Tongue. Potatoes in Butter. Boiled Artichokes. Cherry and Currant Tart. Boiled Custard. Parmesan Profiterolles. Potage a l’Oseille. Homard en Kari. Dindonneau Roti. Langue de Boeuf. Pommes de terre au Beurre. Artichauts. Tarte aux Cerises et aux Groseilles. Creme a la Vanille. Profiterolles au Parmesan. Sorrel Soup Pick and wash carefully a pound of very fresh sorrel. Put it in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, a salt-spoonful of salt and a pinch of pepper. Set the stewpan over the gas turned half full on, and stew gently for three-quarters of an hour. Rub the sorrel through a wire-sieve and return it to the stewpan with a quart of light white stock. Turn the gas three-quarter full on, and boil up ; skim, add a quarter of a pint of very good milk or cream. Beat two yolks of eggs in a basin, turn out the gas under the stewpan, and stir the eggs in. Serve at once. Hand round small dice of fried bread on a plate. This is essentially a summer soup. It makes a pleasant change, and is both tasty and wholesome. Pick all the flesh from the tail and claws of a large lobster or two medium sized ones. Take out the coral, wash it well, dry it in the oven or under the griller, rub it through a wire sieve, and put it aside for use. Crush the shell and put it in half a pint of stock. Set the saucepan over the gas turned three-quarter full on and simmer for half an hour to extract the flavour. Cut up two large onions and put them in a stewpan with an ounce of butter over the Curried Lobster,t 54 The Art of Cooking by Gas. gas turned three-quarter full on, add a bunch of herbs— parsley, thyme, and two bay-leaves. Fry the onions to a light brown. Mix in a basin a table-spoonful of flour, a salt-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of curry powder, and one of curry paste with a quarter of a pint of cocoa-nut milk, and three table-spoonfuls of cocoa-nut finely grated. Strain on this the flavoured stock. Pour it on the onions in the stew- pan, and simmer over the gas turned half full on for half an hour. Add two table-spoonfuls of strained lemon juice, and rub the sauce through a sieve into a basin. Return it to the stewpan, which has been rinsed and wiped, put the lobster in, and make it quite hot, but do not boil it. Makb a border of boiled rice (see page 124) on a hot dish. Pour the lobster and sauce carefully in the middle, and ornament the rice border with lobster coral and chopped-up parsley placed on it alternately. Hand round chutnee with this dish. Roast Turkey Poult. Choose a young and plump bird, truss it like a chicken for roasting, but with the legs twisted under like those of a duck. Do not remove the feet, but cut off the claws. Tuck the head under the wing. Prepare a forcemeat in the follow- ing manner :—Pass half a pound of fresh pork or bacon, half a pound of veal, and the liver of the bird, through a mincing machine. Warm four ounces of butter and mix it in. Soak four ounces of bread-crumbs in a little gravy, squeeze the moisture out, and add the bread to the minced meat. Pound it well together, adding a salt-spoonful of salt, a pinch of pepper, and one of grated nutmeg. Beat an egg briskly, and bind the mixture with it. Wash, dry, and pare a pound of truffles, and cut them in half inch dice. Reserve the cuttings and parings for the sauce. Add the truffles to the forcemeat, mix it well together, and fill the body and crop of the bird with it. All this had better be done some hours before thei55 Home Dinners—June. turkey is roasted, as the flavour of the truffles will penetrate the flesh more thoroughly. Light the gas in the roaster. Put two large spoonfuls of beef dripping in the pan to melt. In ten minutes spit the bird as directed on page 37, and start the clockwork or water motor. Assuming that the turkey weighs eight pounds all told, allow ten minutes with gas full on, basting very thoroughly, an hour with the gas half full on, and twenty minutes with it full on again to brown. Edge a very hot dish with a border of watercress, put the turkey in this, and send Perigueux sauce to the table with it. Sauce Perigueux.—Chop very finely all the parings of the truffles, half a dozen button mushrooms, previously blanched for ten minutes in boiling water, and a very little piece of shallot. Put these in half a pint of good brown sauce, add a wine-glassful of sherry or Madeira, a pinch of salt, and a sprinkle of cayenne pepper. Simmer over the gas turned half full on for twenty minutes. When the turkey is taken out of the roaster, add the gravy, free from fat, to the sauce, skim, turn the gas full on, just boil up, and serve. If Pe'rigueux sauce is made to serve with dishes in the composition of which no truffles are used, so that no parings - are available, one small whole truffle finely chopped will be necessary for the above quantity of sauce, and if there is no gravy to finish the sauce with, use a small piece of glaze. Boiled Tongue. Dried tongues require more or less soaking, according to their kind and size, and no absolute rule can be given for these, but if the tongue is one freshly pickled, and weighs about five pounds, lay it in cold water for two hours. Put enough cold water in the braising-pan to cover the tongue. Turn the gas full on and boil up. Put in the tongue, two carrots, and two onions sliced, two cloves, a bay-leaf, and aj56 The Art of Cooking by Gas. bunch of herbs, six peppercorns, and no salt. Reduce the gas to half full on, skim until clear, simmer for three hours. The tongue is done enough when a skewer will pass through it easily, and the skin is readily detached. Take it up and drain it. Remove the skin, trim the root, brush the tongue over with glaze, and put it for five minutes in the hot oven to set the glaze. Remove it on to a hot dish, fasten a frill round the root, and serve. If the tongue is to be served cold for breakfast, luncheon, or supper, the skin having been removed, leave the tongue to cool in the liquor in which it was boiled. Then lift it out, wipe off the jelly which clings to it, brush it over with glaze (see page 59), and when dry, fasten a paper frill round the root of it. Put it on a cold dish, ornament with parsley and sliced lemon. The pickings of a cold tongue make good potted meat for breakfast (see page 249). The root makes useful stock for vegetable soups. New Potatoes in Butter. Wash and peel three pounds of new potatoes, all about the same size. Dry them well. Melt two ounces of butter in a stewpan over the gas turned three-quarter full on. Put in the potatoes, and shake the pan well to roll them in the butter, repeat this several times while they are cooking. In twenty-five minutes they will be done, and look a golden yellow. Drain them in a colander, sprinkle a little fine salt over them, and serve at once on a hot dish. The older the potatoes are the more butter they will require, as in attaining maturity their texture becomes more open and floury and they soak up the butter. Boiled Artichokes. These must be chosen very fresh, the leaves being stiff and green, and the cut of the stalk moist. Wash them inHome Dinners—June. i57 salt and water, and leave them in soak for an hour, head downwards. Cut the stalk sheer off, remove two rows of the lowest leaves, and pare the bottom smoothly round, this outer part being hard and stringy. Put a large saucepan half full of water over the gas turned three-quarter full on. Add a tea-spoonful of salt to each quart of water. When boiling, plunge the artichokes in head downwards and boil for thirty to forty minutes (this for medium-sized artichokes, very large ones will take over an hour). Prick the bottom with a larding needle, if soft the artichoke is done; or pull out a leaf, if cooked enough, the leaf will come out readily. Drain the artichokes well, divide them, and remove the choke from the heart. Put them together again, and serve hot. A small plate should be put by each person to receive the leaves after the tender part has been eaten. Serve either with melted butter or vinaigrette sauce. Vinaigrette Sauce.—Put in a basin the yolk of a hard- boiled egg rubbed through a wire sieve, a table-spoonful of French vinegar, a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, a tea- spoonful of salt, and a salt-spoonful of pepper. Mix well until the salt is dissolved, add four table-spoonfuls of Lucca oil, a sprig of chervil, and a little tarragon finely chopped. Chop up a shallot, wrap it in the corner of a clean cloth, dip it in cold water, and wring two or three times; this takes off some of its pungency, and makes it more agreeable. Add it to the sauce, beat lightly and quickly with a fork, and serve in a boat. Cherry and Currant Tart. Prepare a short crust as directed on page 151. Put two pounds of Kentish cherries and one pound of red currants free from stalks in a pie-dish, add half a pound of sugar, cover with the short crust, and bake for thirty to thirty-five minutes. When cherries do not come directly from the garden, but have passed through the market, it is a good158 The Art of Cooking by Gas. plan to wash them in cold water and dry them before the stalks are removed. A look at the water in which they have been washed will soon convince the cook of the advisability of the process. The currants also should be treated in the same way, for, hanging as they do on low bushes, they often get splashed with the mud thrown up from the ground by a summer shower. Boiled Custard. To a pint) of cream or very good milk add a table- spoonful of sifted sugar and an inch of vanilla. Put this in a stewpan over the gas turned half full on for twenty minutes, then turn the gas full on, just boil up, and turn the gas out. Strain the cream and let it cool. Beat well four yolks of eggs, and gradually add the cream. Pour the mix- ture in a jug and stand it in a pan of cold water over the gas turned three-quarter full on. Stir with an even constant motion, always turning the same way, until the custard thickens. Pour it in glasses, and keep in a cold place until wanted. This is best made some hours before it is wanted, for it will be noticed that custard made on the previous day is much thicker and richer looking than custard just made. Profiterolles au Parmesan. Stir two ounces of butter in a quarter of a pint of boiling water over the gas turned three-quarter full on, add a small pinch of salt and a very little cayenne pepper, boil up, and turn the gas down. Mix gradually in two ounces of fine sifted flour, stirring quickly to make a smooth paste; turn the gas half full on again, and cook the paste for ten minutes. When it leaves the sides of the pan easily, it is done. Put it aside to cool, and when only tepid, mix in the yolks of two eggs and an ounce of grated Parmesan or Gruyere cheese. Flour the pastry slab. Roll out the paste, divide it in rounds an inch and three-quarters in diameter with a pastry cutter. Put on each a small round piece of cheesei59 Home Dinners—July. and fold the sides over, like those of a three-cornered puff. The pieces of cheese are best made by cutting a slice of cheese a quarter of an inch thick and, with a plain round vegetable cutter, stamping out pieces barely half an inch in diameter. Wet the edges of the profiterolles with a little water, and press them together over the cheese. Put them in the frying basket, and fry in hot fat. Take them out as soon as they have attained a golden brown colour. Drain them for a minute on a hot cloth, roll them qufckly in grated cheese, and serve. JULY. Crdcy Soup. Grilled Perch. Boiled Leg; of Mutton. Young Turnips to Garnish. Potatoes Browned. Roast Quails. Beigncts Souffl-'s. Potage A La Cr<5cv. Perchc Farcie et GrilltJe. Gigot A I’Eau. Petits Navets. Pontmes de Terre Rissoldes. Caillcs Rdties. Reigncts Souffl<5s. Crecy Soup. Scrape and wash some very red carrots, cut them in pieces, taking only the reddest part and rejecting the middle, which is paler. Put half a pound of the carrots in a stewpan with a quart of boiling water, boil them for ten minutes over the gas turned three-quarter’, full on. Strain them. Melt in the stewpan three ounces of fresh butter, add one small onion sliced, the white part of two leeks, and the carrots. Shake these well over the gas for five minutes, add three pints of good white stock, a tea-spoonful of salt, six pepper- corns, a bunch of herbs, and a piece of sugar the size of a small Spanish nut. Skim carefully until boiling-point is reached. Reduce the gas to half full on, and simmer for two hours. The carrots being quite tender, rub the soup through a wire-sieve into a basin. Put it again in the stewpan, which has been rinsed and wiped. Add a table- spoonful of crushed tapioca, and leave the soup to simmer160 The Art of Cooking by Gas. over the gas turned half full on for half an hour. When ready, remove any fat that may have risen to the top, and pour the soup in the hot soup tureen. Serve fried croutons on a separate plate with this soup. Grilled Perch. Fresh water fish is, by many people, unjustly despised as coarse and flavourless, but the fault lies often more in the cooking of the fish than in the fish itself. So this dish and a few others are dedicated to “ brothers of the angle ” who live sufficiently near to the resources of civili- sation to get their fish properly dressed after a day’s good sport. Supposing the angler’s catch to include a couple of perch, weighing about a pound each, and some small fish, wash the perch thoroughly but do not scale them. Gut them and wipe the inside with a dry cloth. Cleanse out half a dozen roach or dace, throw them in boiling water with a pinch of salt and boil them for five or six minutes over the gas turned three-quarter full on. Remove them, cut off their head and tail, split them open and bone them care- fully. Pound the flesh with half its weight in freshly-boiled shrimps, picked free from shells, an anchovy washed, dried, and filleted, an ounce of bread-crumbs soaked in a little milk and squeezed dry, half an ounce of butter, a tea-spoon- ful of chopped-up parsley, half a small shallot, a very little thyme, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a pinch of pepper. This farce being well mixed, fill the fish with it and sew the opening to keep it secure. Light the gas in the griller for five minutes. Wipe the grid and pan, rub the fish on both sides with oil, and lay it on the grid. Broil it for seven minutes on one side, turn it over and draw the point of a sharp knife just through the skin of the back from head to tail > broil again on the other side for five minutes. Serve hot with anchovy sauce. When the fish is served the scalesHome Dinners—July. 161 and skin can be lifted bodily off and the fish taken clean out of them. Anchovy Sauce.—Put an ounce and a half of butter in a small saucepan over the gas, turned three-quarter full on. As it melts, stir into it one ounce of fine sifted flour and mix smoothly, add half a pint of boiling water, a dessert-spoonful of anchovy sauce, a very little pepper, and a tea-spoonful of lemon juice; continue stirring until quite smooth and boiling; remove it, add to it a quarter of a pint of Boiling cream mix well, and serve at once. It is generally unnecessary to add salt to this, as the anchovy sauce is in itself salt. At any rate, it is well to put the anchovy in first and taste the sauce before adding any more salt. Boiled Leg of Mutton. The mutton for this should be fresher-killed meat than for roasting. The leg weighing eight pounds, wipe it thoroughly with a rough clean cloth. Cut the knuckle off neatly and trim off the skin and fat at the fillet end. Put in the braising-pan enough cold water to cover the leg and set it over the gas, turned three-quarter full on. Add to the water two carrots, one turnip, one onion sliced, two sticks of celery, two leeks, a bunch of herbs—parsley, thyme, marjoram, a bay-leaf, two cloves, and six pep- percorns. When this is boiling and well skimmed, put the meat in and skim again until the water boils. Reduce the gas to half full on, and, reckoning from this moment, simmer for two hours and a half, skimming occasionally. Prepare two dozen young turnips by peeling them and putting them in light white stock heated to boiling-point, with a pinch of salt and a tiny piece of sugar; reduce the gas to half full on, and simmer for twenty to twenty-five minutes according to the age and size of the turnips. Take up the mutton and drain it well; see that none of the vegetables and herbs are clinging to it. Put it on a very LThe Art of Cooking by Gas. 162 hot dish. Drain the turnips; arrange them round the mutton. Put half a pint of the mutton liquor in a small saucepan over the gas, turned full on; boil it up for three minutes ; while dishing up the mutton and turnips, skim it; pour it in the dish. Serve with caper sauce in a boat. If this dish is prepared at a time of the year when turnips are fully grown cut them in quarters, boil them for an hour, strain them, rub them through a sieve, and warm them in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, a pinch of salt, and a very little pepper. The liquor in which the mutton has been boiled makes good white stock for soups. The knuckle and trimmings will yield half a pint of good gravy. The fat is useful for frying. Caper Sauce.—Make half a pint of melted butter as directed on page x 15, but use, instead of hot water or milk, the same quantity of liquor in which the mutton has been boiled, and put in two tea-spoonfuls of French vinegar instead of lemon juice; add a table-spoonful of capers either whole or chopped up, and serve. The capers left whole look better in the sauce, but, if chopped up, they yield more flavour. Potatoes Browned. Boil three pounds of medium-sized potatoes, allowing five minutes less than usual to prevent them from breaking. Drain and peel them ; cut them in halves. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stewpan, add a little pepper and salt, dip the potatoes in, roll them in brown bread-crumbs, and put them on a baking-tin under the griller for ten or twelve minutes. In the present instance, the fish having been grilled, the griller will be very hot, and the potatoes can be put in as soon as the grid and pan have been removed. But if the griller has not been in use, light the gas for five minutes before putting the potatoes under it. When doneHome Dinners—July. 163 arrange them round a hot dish, each one slightly overlapping the other, and serve at once. Roast Quails. The birds being picked and trussed, draw them or not, according to taste. Warm one ounce of fresh butter. Brush the quails over with it. Put over the breast of each bird a fresh vine leaf that has been carefully washed and wiped dry. Over this put a thin slice of fat bacon about two inches square, and tie it on with string. Put the birds side by side on the spit in the hot roaster and roast them for twelve minutes, basting them well. Fry in hot fat six slices of bread free from crust, and cut two inches and a half long by one and a half inch broad. Drain these on a hot cloth. Put them on the hot dish and lay one bird on each. Garnish with watercress. Serve with good clear beef gravy in a sauce-boat and browned bread-crumbs on a small plate covered with a lace paper. Beignets Souffles. Make a paste like for choux a la creme (see page 79). Have a deep pan of fat hot and ready for frying over the gas turned three-quarter full on. Put the paste in a forcing- bag ; squeeze it through a plain pipe with large opening. As it comes out, cut it with a sharp knife in buttons the size of a small walnut, and let them drop in the hot fat. They will swell in cooking to the size of an egg. When they are a golden brown, lift them out and drain them; continue until all the paste has been fried in the same manner. Dish up very hot, with fine sifted sugar strewed over them and serve at once. They will be all the lighter if the paste, once made, is allowed to rest for a couple of hours before it is used. These beignets are also good cold.The Art of Cooking by Gas. 164 AUGUST. Tomato Soup. Grilled Red Mullet. Calf’s Head. Bacon. Potatoes with Brains. CervelleS en Caisses de Pommes de Demi-jambon k l’Eau. Potage aux Tomates. Rouget Grille. Tete de Veau. Croustades of Peaches. French Beans. Whipped Apples. Terre. Haricots Verts. Pommes Fouettdes. Crofttes aux Pfiches. Tomato Soup Cut a rasher of bacon in small pieces ; put it in a stew- pan with an ounce of butter, a sliced carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, a bunch of herbs, and a stick or two of celery. Set the pan over the gas, turned three-quarter full on, and fry the vegetables, etc., a bright brown ; add two pounds of tomatoes cut in quarters, and three pints of stock, a tea-spoonful of salt, and six peppercorns. Simmer over the gas turned half-full on for half an hour. Rub the soup through a sieve into a basin, rinse and wipe the stewpan. Return the soup to it, and if it is liked rather thick, add to it a dessert-spoonful of crushed tapioca. Turn the gas three-quarter full on, bring the soup just to boiling-point, and serve. Send up fried dice of bread on a plate with it. Carefully wipe the mullet, but do not wash it, trim off the fins, and take out the eyes. Leave the trails in. Score the fish with five or six slanting cuts on both sides; lay them in a deep dish with four table-spoonfuls of Lucca oil, an onion cut in thin slices, a sprig of parsley, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a pinch of pepper. This quantity is sufficient for three medium-sized mullets. Leave them for two hours in this marinade, turning them once over. Heat the griller for five minutes, wipe the grid and pan. Lift the fish out of the marinade, taking care that no onion or parsley adheres Red Mullet Grilled,Home Dinners—August. 165 to them. Lay them on the grid for seven minutes on one side ; turn them over and grill for five minutes more. They ought to be then quite crisp and must be served at once. Put them on a very hot dish, and put on each a piece of maitre d’hotel butter^ Maitre d'Hotel Butter.—This is made by working a dessert-spoonful of very finely chopped-up parsley, and a dessert-spoonful of lemon juice with an ounce of fresh butter. Divide this in three pieces, and put one on each mullet. This butter is 'also useful for putting on grilled chops, steaks, etc. The mullet can also be served with Tartare or Bearnaise Sauce. Calf’s Head. Half a calf’s head will make a good dish for half a dozen people, and leave pickings enough to make mock turtle soup, the liquor in which the head has been boiled being used for the purpose. Remove the brain and tongue ; pull off carefully the skin that covers the brain, wash it, and leave it in cold water and salt for an hour or two. Then take it out; put it in boiling water to which a spoonful of vinegar and a pinch of salt have been added. Skim well as it boils up again, reduce the gas, and simmer for twenty minutes. Put it aside to cool. Wash the head very thoroughly inside and out, and leave it for several hours in cold water and salt. Rub it with lemon juice all over, and put it in boiling water for ten minutes over the gas turned full on to blanch it. Take it out, bone it with a small sharp knife, then roll it neatly to the shape of a thick sausage. Butter a cloth and wrap the head in it; bind it with tape to keep it in shape. Prepare the liquor in the follow- ing manner :■—Put in the braising-pan an ounce of very finely chopped-up beef suet. • Set the pan over the gas turned three-quarter full on. As soon as the suet is melted, stir into it an ounce of flour, and this being smooth, put in!66 The Art of Cooking by Gas. three quarts of water, a quarter of a pint of French vinegar, a carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, a dessert-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, and a bunch of herbs. Note that if it is intended to make clear mock turtle with the liquor the suet and flour must- be omitted, but they are a great help in keeping the head white. Stir together until the liquor boils; put in the head and tongue, skim well, and as soon as the liquor boils again, reduce the gas to half full on ; butter a piece of paper and cover the head with it. This will prevent the discolour- ation of such parts of the head as might become exposed by the boiling away of the liquor. Simmer for three hours and a half. Take out the head, unpack it, and place it on a hot dish. Skin the tongue and lay it on the side. Slit the ear with a pair of scissors. Garnish with parsley in small bunches and lemon in slices. If the brain is served on the same dish it should be put to cook twenty minutes before the head is ready for serving, drained, and laid on the dish with the head and tongue. It can also be chopped up small, and stirred into the melted butter which is sent up with the head ; but the recipe given on page 167 will be found a very pleasant way of serving it by way of a change. Boiled Bacon. As this, when cold, makes a good dish for breakfast, it is better not to boil too small a piece, which loses propor- tionately much more of its weight and goodness than a large piece. Six pounds is a fair average weight for family use, and the following directions are given for that weight: Wipe the bacon with a cloth, and scrape it if necessary, but do not wash it. Put a large saucepan or braising-pan, with enough cold water in it to cover the bacon, over the gas turned full on; bring this to boiling-point; put the bacon in, and reduce the gas to three-quarter full on. As it boils upHome Dinners—August. 167 again, skim carefully, and when it is nearly boiling again, reduce the gas to half full on so as to keep the water just simmering. Cook for two hours. Try if the skin comes oft readily, the bacon is then done. When done, lift and drain it. Pull off the rind, and strew brown bread-crumbs thickly over the bacon ; just put it in the hot oven for a few minutes and serve. Or, if preferred, brush it all over with glaze after the rind has been removed, and keep it in the hot oven for ten minutes to dry. Potato Cases with Brains. Wash and peel thinly four large oval potatoes; throw them in clean cold water; wash thoroughly, without leaving them to soak ; dry them, and divide them in halves length- wise. Scoop out the inside with a vegetable scoop, leaving only a thickness of an eighth of an inch all round. Throw each as it is scooped in cold water with a pinch of salt. When they are all ready, take them out and wipe them dry. Put them in the frying-basket, and plunge them in hot fat for four minutes; lift the basket out; turn the gas full on to get the fat very hot. In three minutes put the basket in the fat again, and leave the potatoes in for three minutes; they will then be quite crisp. Fill them quickly with the brain and tongue as directed below, and serve at once. The brain having been blanched and cooked as directed on page 165, cut it in very small pieces. Skin the tongue, and also cut it up small; season both with pepper and salt and a few drops of lemon juice. Make half a pint of melted butter (see page 1 £5), using a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar instead of lemon juice. Put the brain and tongue in the melted butter; add a little cayenne pepper. Warm thoroughly without boiling. Put these ingredients, very hot, in a forcing-bag with large plain end pipe, and fill the cases; lay a thin slice of gherkin across each case, as aThe Art of Cooking by Gas. handle to a basket, and sprinkle a little dry lobster coral on each side. Serve at once. French Beans. Remove the stalks and strings of two pounds of French beans, .and if large, cut them in thin strips. Wash and drain them. Put two quarts of water in a stewpan; add a tea-spoonful of salt. Set this over the gas turned three- quarter full on, and bring to boiling-point. Put the beans in and boil for twenty minutes. Drain them in a colander. Melt two ounces of butter in the stewpan, which has been rinsed and wiped, and stir into it one ounce of fine sifted flour. When quite smooth, but not discoloured, add the beans, and stir them well in until quite hot. Serve at once. Whipped Apples. Peel, core, and quarter six fine apples. Put them in a stewpan with two ounces of sugar, an ounce of butter, and the yellow rind of half a lemon finely chopped up. Set these over the gas turned half full on, and stew them until they are reduced to a pulp. Pass it through a sieve. Whip the whites of four eggs until very stiff, adding to them a table-spoonful of sifted sugar. Put them with the apples, and whip both together to a firm snow. Take this in large spoonfuls and pile it up roughly in a glass dish ; have ready half a pint of clear sweet jelly, coloured a bright red, and set firmly. Chop it up or break it small with two forks, and put it round the basis of the snow. Keep in a cool place until wanted. Put a few crystallized cherries here and there over the snow, and a sprig of myrtle at the top. This dish is also very pretty and useful for a cold supper. Croustades with Peaches. Cut eight croutons (see page 50) two inches in diameter and a quarter of an inch thick \ fry them in hot fat, and dryHome Dinners—September. 169 them well. Put them on a baking-tin; cover them with sifted sugar. Peel and stone four ripe peaches ; put one half peach on each crouton, the hollow cup formed by removing the stone being uppermost. Fill this cup with finely- sifted sugar, and put a small piece of fresh butter on the top. Put the peaches under the griller after the fish has been taken up and the grid and pan removed; reduce the gas to half-full on, and cook for twenty minutes, sifting sugar on the peaches two or three times. They can also be done in the oven if more convenient. Lift the croutons and peaches on to a very hot dish, and put in the middle of each peach a crystallized cherry. Serve at once. SEPTEMBER. Mock Turtle Soup. Fried Eels. Sauce Ravigote. Roast Goose. Snow Potatoes. Cauliflowers. Blackberry Pudding. Whipped Cream. Herring Roes on Toast. Potage Fausse Tortue. Anguilles Frites. Sauce Ravigote. Oie R6tie. Pommes de Terre en Neige. Choux-fleurs. Pudding de Mtires. Creme Fouettde. Laitances sur Croutes. Mock Turtle Soup. To make soup for twelve people, half a calfs head would be required, but if half a head has been boiled for the dinner of half a dozen persons, the liquor, bones, and pickings can be utilised in the following manner:—First put aside the best parts of the gelatinous meat left, carefully trimmed, so that it will only have to be cut in neat square pieces to put in the soup when ready. Put all the trimmings and bones in the digester with the liquor in which the head has been boiled, adding, if necessary, enough water to make up two quarts; add two carrots, two onions, each stuck with two cloves, a stick of celery, two leeks, a bunch of herbs (parsley, thyme, marjoram, basil, and two bay leaves),i7° The Art of Cooking by Gas. a little mace, a tea-spoonful of salt, and eight peppercorns. Set this over .the gas turned half full on, and bring slowly to boiling-point, skimming diligently. Simmer for three hours. Strain the soup; put it aside to cool, and remove the fat. If the soup is wanted clear, clarify it as directed on page 65, using half a pound of scraped beef and two whites of eggs for the above quantity, which by simmering will have reduced to about three pints. Return the soup to the stew- pan, with a wine-glassful of sherry or Madeira, in which a dessert-spoonful of arrowroot has been smoothly mixed ; turn the gas three-quarter full on, and heat the soup. Cut the meat in pieces about an inch square, or stamp it in rounds of the same diameter; put it in. Taste the soup, and, if necessary, add a little salt and a sprinkle of cayenne pepper, and just before serving add a tea-spoonful of strained lemon juice. Serve with lemons cut in quarters and cayenne pepper handed round. Thick mock turtle is prepared in the same way, but when the stock is ready for use—that is to say, strained, cooled, and free from fat—put it in a stewpan to heat. Melt an ounce of butter in a small saucepan over the gas turned three-quarter full on. Mix smoothly with it an ounce of fine sifted flour, and fry it to a bright brown ; take a quarter of a pint of hot- stock from the stewpan, and mix it with the flour and butter; add, if liked, a dessert-spoonful of mush- room ketchup and a wine-glassful of sherry or Madeira, and gradually pour the thickening in the soup ; stir it well in, skim, add a tea-spoonful of strained lemon juice, and serve very hot. If calf’s head is prepared in warm weather, it is better to stew the bones as soon as they are removed from the head, for fear they should get tainted; the liquor thus obtained can then be added to that in which the head itself is boiled, and the soup finished as directed.Home Dinners—September. 171 Fried Eels. Sauce Ravigote. Skin and cleanse an eel weighing about two pounds. Put three quarts of water in a saucepan over the gas turned three-quarter full on. When it boils, put in the eel, turn out the gas, cover the saucepan, leave it for three or four minutes. Take out the eel and wipe it carefully ; this will remove the inner oily skin, and make the fish more digestible. Trim it and cut it in pieces three inches long. Put a pint of water and a wine-glassful of white wine in a stewpan, add a carrot and an onion sliced, four peppercorns, and a pinch of salt. Set this over the gas turned three-quarter full on and boil up; put the pieces of eel in, and as soon as it boils again reduce the gas to half full on. Simmer for half an hour, occasionally shaking the pan. Turn out the gas, and let the eel cool in the liquor for twenty minutes. Take it out, wipe it lightly, and leave it to get quite cold. Put the liquor over the gas again, and simmer it for twenty minutes ; strain it and reserve it for the sauce. Whisk two eggs briskly with a table-spoonful of oil and one of cold water. Roll the cold pieces of eel lightly in flour, dip them in the beaten egg, cover them with bread-crumbs, and fry in hot fat, and drain them on a hot cloth. Dish up and ornament with crisply-fried parsley. Ravigote Sauce.—Put the strained liquor from the eels in a small saucepan over the gas turned three-quarter full on. Chop up finely a handful of herbs : chervil, tarragon, burnet, chives, mustard and cress. Add these to the stock and boil up again. Mix in a stewpan aji ounce of butter and one of flour smoothly; pour the stock and herbs on this with one hand, stirring well with the other. Add an anchovy, washed, dried, and chopped small, a gherkin also chopped up, and a dessert-spoonful of capers, a little pepper and salt, and serve hot without boiling again. This sauce can also be made with any fish stock. MadeThe Art of Cooking by Gas. 172 with meat stock, it is excellent with grilled meat, especially veal cutlets and pork chops. The anchovy should then be omitted. If all the herbs cannot be procured, make the sauce with only chervil and tarragon. Even these two, used by themselves, will make a very tasty sauce. Roast Goose. See on page 39 full directions for choosing, stuffing, and roasting a goose weighing about eight pounds. Snow Potatoes. Boil three pounds of potatoes (see page 114); peel them, set a wire-sieve over a vegetable dish, and rub the potatoes through into the dish where they fall in light flakes. Do not disturb them, and send up at once. Cauliflowers. Choose two fine young cauliflowers; cut the stalks sheer off and remove all leaves; boil as directed on page 101. Drain them well. Warm a basin by pouring boiling water in it and letting it stand for five minutes. Empty and dry it; arrange the cauliflowers in this, flower downwards, so as to form one large head of it; fill the middle with the stalks and trimmings. Turn it out on a hot dish, and pour half a pint of melted butter (see page 115) over it. Serve at once. They are also excellent with tomato sauce. Blackberry Pudding. Chop very finely half a pound of good beef suet. Sift one pound of flour into a basin; add the suet and a pinch of salt, mixing it well in. Make this into a firm paste, with about a quarter of a pint of water, handling it lightly and quickly. Roll it out, line a basin six inches broad and four inches deep, cut the paste well outside the edge of the basin, put in one and a half pound of blackberries, well picked and clean,Home Dinners—September. i 7 3 and add four ounces of Demerara sugar. Cover the fruit with the rest of the paste rolled out. Press the edges well to- gether; tie a clean pudding-cloth over the pudding with strong string ; then take the four corners of the pudding-cloth and tie them together. Plunge the pudding in a large sauce- pan of boiling water, set over the gas turned three-quarter full on, and boil for an hour and a half. When done, lift the pudding out by the knotted corners of the cloth, cut the string and remove the cloth, turn the pudding out carefully on to a hot dish, and serve at once. Whipped Cream. Put a clean cloth on a sieve and stand the sieve over a basin. Put a pint of good cream in another basin with the white of an egg beaten to a stiff froth, two table-spoonfuls of castor sugar, and a dessert-spoonful of strained lemon juice. Whip briskly, and as the froth rises, lift it off with a spoon and put it on the sieve to drain; continue whisking until all is used up, whisking again the cream which has drained into the basin under the sieve. Pile up the cream on a glass dish, and keep in a cold place until wanted. If the weather is at all warm, the basin in which the cream is whipped must be set on ice, or the whipping will be both lengthy and unsatisfactory. Herring Roes on Toast. Scale, cleanse, and wipe very carefully six herrings with soft roes. Take out the roes without breaking them ; wash them well in cold water and salt. Put them in a deep dish, and light the gas in the oven of the Charing Cross kitchener. Put in a small saucepan half a pint of boiling water and a wine-glassful of French vinegar; add a pinch of salt, six peppercorns, and three bay-leaves. Set this over the gas turned full on, and as soon as it boils, skim and strain it over the roes. Cover the dish with a buttered paper, andThe Art of Cooking by Gas. i74 put it in the oven. Cook for ten minutes with the gas three- quarter full on. Make six pieces of toast in the griller, and butter them hot on both sides. Drain the roes, lay one on each piece of toast, put little pieces of butter over them, light the griller for five minutes, put the toast and roes on the grid, and put them under the griller for five minutes. Take them out, squeeze a few drops of lemon juice over each, sprinkle upon them a little lobster coral and chopped parsley and a few grains of cayenne pepper. Serve hot. The herrings from which the roes have been taken can be grilled or soused for breakfast, the liquor in which the roes were cooked being used for the latter purpose. OCTOBER. Palestine Soup. Puree de Topinambours. Fried Gudgeons. Goujons Frits. Braised Shoulder of Mutton. Epaule de Mouton Braisde. Glazed Onions. Oignons Glaces. Boiled Potatoes. Pommes de Terre a l'Eau. Roast Plovers. Pluviers Rotis. Apple Tart. Tourte aux Pommes. Cheese Fritters. Fromage Frit. Palestine Soup. Wash and pare two pounds of Jerusalem artichokes, throwing each one, as it is peeled, in cold water to keep them white. Pare two onions and slice them. Melt two ounces of butter in a stevvpan over the gas turned three-quarter full on. Slice the artichokes, put them in with the onions, a stick of celery, and a bunch of herbs. Fry these gently, without discolouring, for ten minutes, lowering the gas if necessary. They must not get brown. Add a quart of white stock, and simmer over the gas turned half full on for three-quarters of an hour. Rub the purde through a sieve, return it to the stewpan, which has been rinsed and wiped, add half a pint more stock, stirring it well, a salt-spoonful ofi75 Home Dinners—October. salt, and a pinch of pepper. Just before serving pour in half a pint of boiling cream ; mix well, and serve. After the pure'e has been rubbed through the sieve and the additional stock put in, it can be kept hot in the bain-marie if not wanted immediately, but it should not be allowed to boil again, and the cream must be added only just before serving. Send up with it small dice of fried bread on a separate plate. Fried Gudgeons. Freshly-caught gudgeons, crisply fried, make a very dainty dish, and well may Izaak Walton say that “ the gud- geon is reputed a fish of excellent taste, and to be very wholesome.” Having then secured three dozen gudgeons, wash and cleanse them thoroughly inside and out. Wipe them, and roll them in sifted flour. Put them on a sieve and shake it to detach the superfluous flour. Egg and bread-crumb the fish, put them in the frying basket five or six at a time, and fry in hot fat. Drain them on a hot cloth; sprinkle a little fine salt on them. Dish them up, and ornament with fried parsley in little bunches. Serve hot, and send up with them some brown bread and butter cut thin and lemons cut in quarters. Braised Shoulder of Mutton. Bone the shoulder carefully so as not to break the skin. Spread it on the table, skin downwards, and cut off such pieces of the meat as are thicker than the rest, so that the meat will be of equal thickness all over. Remove as much of the fat as can be conveniently cut off. Turn the shoulder over and lard the top of it. See directions for larding on page 144. Prepare a forcemeat in the following manner : Mince finely a quarter of a pound of rather fat bacon, a quarter of a pound of fresh pork, the meat and fat that were trimmed off the shoulder, two kidneys, a small onion, a sprig of parsley, one of chervil, and one of thyme. Pound these well176 The Art of Cooking by Gas. together with a slice of bread soaked in gravy; beat two eggs with a pinch of salt and a little pepper; add them to the farce. When it is quite smooth, put the shoulder again on the table, the larded side downwards; sprinkle a little salt and pepper on the meat; spread the forcemeat on it so that it does not quite reach the sides. Bring the edges over all round and give the shoulder a round form not unlike a small melon, but rather flatter. Sew it very securely with a trussing-needle and string, and tie tape round it in two or three places to keep it in good shape. Melt two ounces of butter in a braising-pan over the gas turned three-quarter full on. Put the shoulder in and fry it for seven or eight minutes; turn it over, and fry the other side in the same manner. Turn the larded side uppermost again. Pour in at the side of the pan a quart of light mutton stock, boiling hot, and a glass of white wine. As soon as it boils again, reduce the gas to half full on ; skim, add a carrot, an onion, a tea-spoonful of salt, a pinch of pepper, and a bunch of herbs. Cover the pan and put the braising-burner, turned half-full on, on the lid, or put the pan in the oven, which has been heated for ten minutes, and reduce the gas to three-quarter full on. Simmer the shoulder for two hours, basting it occasionally with the liquor. When done, take out the pan and put a dish in the hot oven. Lift out the shoulder; remove the tape and string carefully; put the shoulder on the hot dish, larded side uppermost, to keep hot; glaze it with the liquor from the onions (see below). Remove the fat from the gravy, strain it into a saucepan, put it, without a lid on, over the gas turned full on to reduce it. When it looks thick and syrupy, pour it round the shoulder. Garnish with glazed onions, and serve at once. Glazed Onions. Take twelve onions, all about the same size (two inches across). Peel off the brown skin and the first white skinHome Dinners—October. 177 under it. With a small pointed knife make a little well an inch deep in the middle of each. Butter the bottom of a stewpan with two ounces of butter, and arrange the onions side by side ; they should just cover the bottom of the pan, allowing a little room for turning them over. Fill them with sifted sugar. Put the pan over the gas, turned three-quarter full on, and fry the onions, turning them over presently to brown both sides. They should look a rich brown, but care must be taken not to let them burn. When they are coloured, pour over them enough good stock to cover them. Half a pint will probably be sufficient unless too large a stewpan has been used. Cover the pan and simmer over the gas, turned half full on, basting the onions often with the gravy until it is reduced to a glaze, and the onions are quite soft, but not broken. Strain the glaze and glaze the shoulder with it, leaving it in the oven for a few minutes to set; arrange the onions round the mutton, and serve. Boiled Potatoes (Another Way). Scrub and wash clean three pounds of potatoes. Put them in a saucepan with enough cold water to cover them, adding a dessert spoonful of salt. Set the saucepan over the gas, turned three-quarter full on, and bring to boiling- point. When they have been boiling for fifteen minutes, pour off the water ; cover the saucepan with a cloth and let the potatoes steam until done (about fifteen minutes more). Peel and serve at once. Roast Plovers. These are roasted like woodcock, without being drawn. Ascertain that they are fat by pressing them at the vent, which should feel hard, and reject those whose feet look dry and withered. Light the gas in the roaster for ten minutes. Spit the birds and start the turnspit. Baste well, and put a piece of M17<"> 'The Art or Cooking by Gas. toast under the birds. Roast for ten minutes. Divide the toast in as many pieces as there are birds; put these on a hot dish and a plover on each : garnish with fresh watercress picked, washed, and dried, and a few slices of lemon. Serve at once with half a pint of good beef gravy in a boat, or the following sauce :— Sauce for Plovers.—Chop finely two shallots ; put them in a small stewpan with half a pint of good brown sauce, the strained juice of a lemon, a pinch of salt one of sugar, and a very little cayenne pepper. Set this over the gas, turned three-quarter full on, boil up, and skim. Add a wine-glassful of port wine; strain and serve at once. See also gravy for teal, page 186. Savoury Toast for Plovers, etc.—When birds are roasted without being drawn, toast prepared in the following manner will be found very tasty : When the birds are done, scoop out the trails with a small spoon dipped in boiling water and wiped. Dish the birds without toast under them; garnish with watercress, and send them up. In the meantime chop or pound the trails quickly; spread them on the buttered toast, sprinkle a little salt and cayenne pepper over them, squeeze a few drops of lemon juice on, and put the toast under the griller just for two minutes. Divide the toast in small pieces with a hot knife and send up at once, so that it is handed round with the sauce or gravy. Apple Tart. Make a puff paste (see page no), and line a flat round mould, ten inches in diameter, having a straight-up edge an inch high, either plain or fluted. Cut the pastry evenly round the edge. Stew fine sifted sugar all over, so that it forms a layer an eighth of an inch thick. Peel, core, and quarter half a dozen fine apples. Divide each quarter in five or six crescent-shaped slices ; arrange these all round the mould, each piece slightly overlapping the next; make aHome Dinners—November. 179 second ring inside the first, and one again within it until the middle is reached. Strew sugar all over. Light the gas in the oven for ten minutes ; put the tart in, and bake for twenty-five to thirty minutes with the gas three-quarter full on. Cheese Fritters. Cut a slice or two of Gruyere cheese three-eighths of an inch thick, and, with a vegetable cutter, stamp it in rounds an inch in diameter. Put these in a deep plate; sprinkle a little cayenne pepper and pour three table spoonfuls of Lucca oil over them. Leave them for half an hour in the oil. Wipe them, dip them each separately in frying batter (see page 50), and fry in hot fat. Drain them and dish on a hot plate covered with lace paper. Serve at once. A little more cayenne pepper may be sprinkled over them if liked. NOVEMBER. Bouillabaisse. Steak and Kidney Pudding. Potatoes with Cream. Grilled Mushrooms. Roast Snipe. Apple Charlotte. Welsh Rarebit. Bouillabaisse. Pudding de Boeuf aux Rognons. Pommes de Terre a la Creme. Cepes. Bdcassine Rotie. Charlotte de Pommes. Croustades a la Galloise. Bouillabaisse. Almost any kind of sea or freshwater fish will do for this dish, which is at once a soup and a fish course, though sea fish has the most flavour. Take three pounds of whiting, sole, and lobster in equal proportions ; or gurnet, haddock, and mackerel; or, of freshwater fish, carp, bream, large roach, dace, etc. Cleanse the fish thoroughly; scale or skin it and cut it in pieces two inches long. Put in a stewpan an ounce of butter and two large onions sliced. Set this over the gas turned three-quarter full on and fry the onions a bright brown; put the fish in. Add twenty-four shelledi8o The Art of Cooking by Gas. mussels and their liquor, two tomatoes, cut in halves, two bay leaves, a bead of garlic, two cloves, a quarter of a pint of Lucca oil, a tea-spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of pepper, and a few drops of saffron, or a very little powdered saffron. 'Pour a quart of fish stock, and a wine-glassful of white wine,' or half a wine-glassful of sherry or Madeira, on these; cover, and stew for forty-five minutes. The fish being done, lift it out of the saucepan into a deep and very hot dish, and put it in the oven to keep hot. Rub the liquor through a sieve, return it to the saucepan, which has been rinsed and wiped, turn the gas full on, and boil up; skim and reduce the gas to half-full on. Beat two yolks of eggs in a basin ; add a quarter of a pint of warm cream ; stir this gradually into the stock; taste, and if necessary add a little cayenne pepper, and as soon as the sauce is very hot, but not boil- ing, pour it over the fish. Ornament with a little lobster coral and chopped-up parsley sprinkled alternately, and with slices of lemon. Serve at once. This dish wants to be highly seasoned. The bones and trimmings of the fish make good stock for further use. Steak and Kidney Pudding. Make a crust as directed on page 172. Beat two and a half pounds of well-hung rumpsteak, free from skin and gristle. Cut it in small pieces ; cut up also half a pound of beef kidney, taking care it is perfectly sweet; sprinkle a tea- spoonful of salt and a salt-spoonful of pepper on the meat. Line the basin (4x6 in.) with part of the crust; put the meat in, adding either two dozen button mushrooms or a dozen oysters, bearded and quartered, or an onion boiled for twenty minutes and chopped up small; pour in a quarter of a pint of cold water and half a wine-glassful of port wine. Put the rest of the crust over. Press the edges well together; tie a cloth securely over the pudding-. Knot the corners together to lift the pudding by; plungeHome Dinners—November. 181 it into boiling water over the gas turned three-quarter full on, and, reckoning from the time the water boils again, simmer for two hours and a half over the gas reduced to half full on ; if the pudding boils too fast the meat will be tough. The gravy in the pudding will be very rich, and rather too thick, so, when the pudding is taken up, cut a little round piece off the middle of the crust, and pour in a quarter of a pint of hot beef stock. Send some more of this to the table in a small jug to be poured in as required. Pin a clean serviette round the basin and serve. Potatoes with Cream. Scrub, wash, and boil three pounds of potatoes. When they are done, put in a stewpan an ounce of butter; melt this over the gas turned three-quarter full on. Mix in half an ounce of flour, a salt-spoonful of salt, a pinch of pepper, a salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, and half a shallot very finely chopped ; mix well; add half a pint of cream or very good milk, and stir until the sauce boils. Peel and slice the potatoes; put them in the sauce, stir them well in, and serve hot. Grilled Mushrooms. Cleanse and peel carefully two dozen flat mushrooms. Put them head downwards in a deep dish ; sprinkle on each a little pepper and salt, and pour over them two ounces of warm butter or four table-spoonfuls of Lucca oil. The oil is preferable, as it remains liquid, whilst butter coagulates again in cooling. Leave them in this for an hour. Light the gas in the griller; wipe the grid and pan. Lay the mushrooms on the grid; grill them for five minutes, turn them over, brush them with the oil or butter, and grill for another five minutes. Put them on a hot dish with a little182 The Art of Cooking by Gas. piece of butter on each, a little more pepper and salt, and a few drops of lemon juice squeezed over. Serve at once. Roast Snipe. This bird is prepared and- roasted like the woodcock (see page 117), but requires a shorter time in cooking ; ten minutes will be sufficient for snipe, and they want plentiful basting lest they should get dry. Eaten rather underdone and moist they are a very dainty morsel; overdone and dry they are not worth eating. Serve them on toast garnished with watercress, or with savoury toast, like plovers (see page 178). Apple Charlotte. Pare, core, and slice three pounds of fine cooking apples. Put them in a stewpan with two ounces of sugar, an ounce of butter, and the yellow rind of a lemon finely chopped up. Set the pan over the gas turned half-full on, and stew the apples until tender; they take more or less according to their kind. When they are reduced to a pulp, rub them through a sieve. Line a straight mould with bread free from crust; for this, cut eight wedge-shaped pieces for the bottom of the mould, and enough straight pieces an inch and a half broad to stand all round the mould. Dissolve two ounces of butter; dip the wedge-shaped pieces in it, and arrange them at the bottom to cover it. Dip the straight pieces, and put them round the mould, each overlapping the other a little. Pour the apple puree in this. Put a round of bread, also dipped in buttdr, on the top. Light the gas in the oven for ten minutes; put in the mould, cover it with a plate, and bake for three-quarters of an hour with the gas three- quarter full on. Just before turning it out, warm half a pound of apricot marmalade in a small saucepan. Turn out the charlotte carefully on a hot dish, and glaze with the marmalade. Serve at once.Home Dinners—December. 183 Welsh Rarebit. Cut two slices of bread half an inch thick, and toast them on both sides in the griller. Butter on both sides. Dissolve one ounce of butter in a small stewpan over the gas turned three-quarter full on. Cut half a pound of good Cheddar cheese in very thin slices, and stir it in until it is all melted. Add two table-spoonfuls of cream, a salt-spoon- ful of made mustard, and a sprinkle of cayenne pepper. Lay the toast on a very hot dish (a hot-water dish is the best); divide it in small square pieces, and pour the mixture over it. Turn the gas full on in the griller, and put the dish in the place of the pan and grid for a minute or two. Serve at once with very hot plates, for, unless this dish is eaten “ piping ” hot, it is worthless. DECEMBER. Lentil Soup. Fried Whiting. Irish Stew. Brussels Sprouts. Roast Teal. Vanilla Souffld. Angels on Horseback. Purde de Lentilles. Merlans Frits. Haricot de Mouton. Choux de Bruxelles. Sarcelle Rotie. Souffle & la Vanille. Croustades aux Huitres, Lentil Soup. Wash and pick half a pint of split lentils. Put them in a stewpan with a pinch of salt and enough cold water to cover them. Set this over the gas, turned three-quarter full on, and let it come up to boiling-point; then reduce the gas to half full on and simmer for two hours. In the meantime, prepare a quart of stock, by putting it, free from fat, in a stewpan with an onion stuck with two cloves, a carrot, a stick of celery, and a bunch of herbs. When the lentils are soft, strain them, and rub them through a wire sieve into a basin, moistening them with the stock. Pick out the cloves and the bunch of herbs; rub the carrot and the onion through with the lentils. Return the puree to the stewpan,184 The Art of Cooking by Gas. add a little pepper and salt if necessary, heat thoroughly, and serve. Fried croutons can be handed round with this, or, for a change, cut the best parts of two small heads of celery in little bunches; boil these in a little salt water or light stock for thirty to forty minutes ; drain them and put them in the soup. This is very tasty. Fried Whitings. It is very much recommended that whitings should be filleted for frying. They look very much better, both on the dish and on the plate; the same number of whitings will serve more people, and the heads, bones, and trimmings are useful either for sauce or fish stock. Have three large whitings filleted; wash and dry them; cut each fillet in two pieces, and trim off the ends so as to make them a good shape. Cover them with fine sifted llour ; put each piece on a sieve, and when they are all done, shake the sieve to detach the superfluous flour. Cover them with egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in hot fat. Drain them on a hot cloth. Arrange them round a dish, each piece overlapping the other; garnish with fried parsley, and serve at once with quarters of lemon handed round. Melted butter (see page 1x5) can be served with these. The bones and trimmings of the fish should for this purpose be stewed in half a pint of milk for twenty minutes, the milk strained and used for making the melted butter. Tomato sauce is also excellent with fried whiting. Irish Stew. Take three pounds of the best end of the neck of mutton ; divide it in neat pieces, removing all excess of bone and fat. Put two ounces of butter in a stewpan over the gas, turned three-quarter full on. Put the pieces of meat in and fry them, turning them once or twice, so that they get evenly browned ; fifteen to twenty minutes will be sufficient. Dredge in an ounce of flour; stir it in well forHome Dinners—December. 185 five minutes to brown it; add a quart of water or light stock. Bring up to boiling-point, skim, reduce the gas to half-full on, add a bunch of herbs, and a large onion with three cloves stuck in it; let the stew simmer for an hour. Prepare twelve turnips, cut to the shape of corks, and fwelve onions, about an inch in diameter ; fry these in an ounce of butter to a bright brown ; add them to the stew a few at a time, so as not to stop the simmering. If it does stop, turn the gas higher for a minute or two. Peel or cut twelve potatoes to the size and shape of small eggs; put them in half an hour after the other vegetables, observing the same pre- caution. Continue simmering for an hour; altogether, two hours and a half. Take out the bunch of herbs and the onion stuck with cloves ; arrange the meat on a deep dish made very hot,’ the -vegetables being sorted and placed round in little bunches. Turn the gas full on, boil up the sauce, take off the fat, pour the sauce through a strainer over the meat and vegetables, and serve. Brussels Sprouts. Trim and wash carefully three pounds of Brussels sprouts ; leave them for half an hour in cold water, to which a table-spoonful of salt has been added. Put them in a saucepan of boiling water, and simmer for twenty-five minutes ; drain them thoroughly. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan ; put in the sprouts; roll them lightly in the butter without breaking them; add a little pepper; dish up, and serve hot. Roast Teal. Put the birds on the spit in the roaster, .previously heated for ten minutes. Baste them with good beef- dripping, and roast for ten minutes. Dish them on a piece of buttered toast, and garnish with watercress. . Send cayenne pepper and lemon cut in quarters up to the table with the teal.i86 The Art of Cooking by Gas. Gravy for Teal.—Put in a small saucepan half a pint of good beef-gravy, the juice of a lemon, a shallot finely chopped up, a small pinch of salt, and a little cayenne pepper; boil up and skim; add a glass of'port wine, tammy or strain the gravy, and serve at once. See also Sauce for Plovers. Vanilla Souffle. First prepare a plain round mould by brushing it with dissolved butter; cut a band of paper long enough to go round the mould and broad enough to stand three inches above the edge of the rgpuld when tied on ; butter it, and tie it round the mould with string. Put an inch of vanilla pod in a quarter of a pint of milk, and let it infuse over the gas, turned half-full on, for fifteen minutes. Melt two ounces of fresh butter in a stewpan over the gas, turned three- quarter full on; mix smoothly with it two ounces of fine sifted flour; moisten with the milk strained; stir very quickly till the mixture thickens and boils. Turn the gas out, and, still stirring, put in one ounce of sifted sugar. Stir in, one by one, three yolks of eggs, mixing them well in; add two table-spoonfuls of cream, and leave the mixture to cool. Put in a basin the whites of four eggs with a tiny pinch of salt; whisk until quite stiff. The mixture being cool, stir in gently the whites of the eggs ; fill the mould about three parts full. Put it in the oven, which has been lighted and turned full on for fifteen minutes previously; put a piece of buttered paper on the top to prevent the souffle' from colouring too quickly. Bake from forty to forty-five minutes. In twenty-five minutes, remove the paper from the top, aqd in ten minutes more, dust some icing sugar on the souffle. When it is a pretty brown and feels firm under the finger pressed upon it, it is done. Have ready either a silver souffle case, fitting the tin and made hot, or a paper frill, or a hot serviette ready folded. Take the souffle' out of the oven, remove quickly the187 Home Dinners—December. paper which was tied round, drop the tin in its case, or pin the paper or serviette round with as much despatch as possible, and serve without losing a minute. Hand round the following sauce. Sauce for Vanilla Souffle.—Split the piece of vanilla that was infused in milk for the souffle, put it in rather less than half a pint of milk, and infuse it over the gas, turned half full on, for twenty minutes. Let the milk cool a little. Beat two yolks of eggs (there is one left from the souffle) in a basin, and gradually add the flavoured milk through a strainer, and a table-spoonful of sifted sugar. Return the mixture to the saucepan, and stir gently over the fire until it thickens. When smooth and creamy-looking, strain it. Whisk the white of one egg until quite firm, gradually add the strained custard to it, and finish with two table-spoonfuls of cream. If the sauce is to be served hot, keep it warm in the bain- marie, taking care it does not boil; if cold, keep it on ice until wanted. Angels on Horseback. Cut two slices of stale bread half an inch thick and stamp them in six rounds two inches in diameter. Fry these in hot fat, and drain them on a hot cloth, keeping them hot until wanted. Beard six oysters; put them on a soup-plate with their liquor, a little piece of butter on each, and a sprinkle of cayenne pepper. Put another plate upside down over this, and put it in the warm oven for five or six minutes. In the meanwhile stamp six thin rounds of bacon to the same size as the croutons. Melt a very small piece of butter in the shallow frying-pan; fry the bacon on both sides. Spread a puree of anchovies (see page 142) on the hot croutons; put a piece of bacon on each, an oyster over the bacon, two or three drops of lemon juice on the oyster, and ornament with a little finely chopped-up parsley and lobster coral. Put these on a hot dish, add a few more drops of lemon to the oyster liquor, pour it round, and serve at once.i88 LUNCHEONS. *o« For the preparation of these luncheons a kitchener of the Charing Cross type, including a griller, an oven, and four or five rings for boiling, will do all that is required. It is hardly necessary to add that most of these luncheons will with addition of soup make very tasty small dinners. JANUARY. Scrambled Eggs with Ham. Mutton Chops. Sauce Soubise. Haricots Maitre d’Hotel. Apple Fritters. CEufs Brouilles au Jambon. Cotelettes de Mouton. Sauce Soubise. Haricots Maitre d'Hotel. Beignets de Pommes. Scrambled Eggs with Ham. Melt three ounces of butter in a stewpan over the gas turned three-quarter full on. Break six eggs separately, making sure that each egg is quite sweet. Put them in the stewpan, add a quarter of a pint of milk or, if available, the same quantity of cream, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a pinch of pepper. Whisk very briskly over the gas until the eggs begin to set. Turn the gas down to half full on, and continue whisk- ing. Add three ounces of cooked ham or tongue cut in thin slices and divided in half-inch squares. Stir well, and turn out on a hot dish (a hot water dish, if possible). Ornament with fried croutons prettily shaped, and serve at once. These eggs can be prepared also with cooked peas, asparagus tops, purees of lettuce, celery, etc., or simply with a dessert- spoonful of chopped herbs (parsley, chervil, tarragon, and a very little chive or shallot). Served thus, they are alsoL uncheons—Ja nua ry. i 8 9 excellent with tomato sauce poured round them. They make a good breakfast dish. Grilled Mutton Chops. (Soubise Sauce.) For loin chops, trim off the backbone and remove the excess of fat; fold the flap round so as to make the chops as round as practicable. Pepper and salt them on both sides, light the gas in the grillerfor five minutes, wipe the pan and grid, and rub a little fat or butter on the grid. Put the chops on the grid, and put a piece of butter, the size of a small walnut, on each. Grill for twelve to fifteen minutes, according to thickness, turning the chops with a pair of steak tongs two or three time's while cooking. When the chops feel firm between the tongs they are done. Dish on a very hot dish, and serve at once with hot plates. Soubise Sauce. —Peel three large onions and blanch them for ten minutes ; turn them out in a colander, and wash them well in cold water. Drain them, slice them, and put them in a stewpan with half a pint of white stock (the stock made from chicken bones or the liquor from a boiled fowl is best for this use). Add half an ounce of butter, a bunch of herbs (parsley, thyme, marjoram, and a bay-leaf), a salt-spoonful of salt, and a pinch of pepper. Turn the gas half-full on, and simmer for three-quarters of an hour. Take out the herbs, rub the onions through a sieve, return them to the stewpan, which has been rinsed and wiped, with half a pint of bechamel sauce (see page 251), and a small piece of sugar. Stir well over the gas turned half full on, and just before serving add two table-spoonfuls of cream. Haricots Maitre d’Hotel. Soak a pint of haricots for several hours or even over night. Put them in a saucepan with three pints of cold water and a tea-spoonful of salt. Turn the gas three-quarter full on, and simmer the haricots for three hours. Make190 The Art of Cooking by Gas. sure they are done by pressing one or two between the fingers, for they take more or less time according to their age. When done, they will crush readily and look floury. Drain them thoroughly; rinse and wipe the stewpan. Put back the haricots in it, and stir in two ounces of butter; add a pinch of pepper, two of salt, three table-spoonfuls of the water in which the haricots have been boiled, and a dessert- spoonful of parsley finely- chopped up and washed. Mix well together, and serve. The water in which the haricots have been boiled is useful for vegetable soups. Peel and core six fine apples; cut them in slices about a quarter of an inch thick. Put them in a deep dish, cover them with sifted sugar, add a wine-glassful of brandy, and a little yellow rind of lemon finely chopped up. Leave them in this marinade for two hours, turning them over two or three times. Take them out and drain them thoroughly, or the batter will not stick to them. Heat the fat for frying, dip the apples one by one in batter which has been made at least two hours previously (see Batter for Frying, page 50). Put the apples in the hot fat a few at a time, and fry of a golden brown, turning them about so that they may get evenly coloured. Drain them on a hot cloth, and strew them with sifted sugar. Pile them up on a very hot dish, and serve at once. Omelet with Shrimps. Break six eggs in a basin (making sure they are quite sweet); add a salt-spoonful of pepper and one of salt. Beat Apple Fritters. FEBRUARY. Omelet with Shrimps. Grilled Pork Chops. Sauce Robert. Macaroni & la Napolitaine. Rice Croquettes. Omelette aux Crevettes. Cotelettes de Pore Frais Grilloes. Sauce Robert. Macaroni k la Napolitaine. Croquettes de Riz.I9I L UNCHEONS—FEBR UA R Y. well with a fork for a minute, but not longer. Put the omelet-pan, with a small piece of fat or butter in it, over the gas turned three-quarter full on. Shake the pan so that the melting fat runs all over it; wipe it thoroughly, and put it again over the gas with two ounces of butter in it. The butter being dissolved, put the eggs in ; work them with the fork so that they spread evenly. When the eggs begin to set, loosen the edges with the fork to prevent them from burning. Shake the pan until the omelet slips about easily. It is then done. Put the shrimps, prepared as below, on one half of the omelet, and fold the other half over; slip the omelet in the hot dish, pour the sauce round it, and serve at once. Remember that the pan in which omelets are made must not be used for anything else. Ragout of Shrimps for Omelets.—Pick a pint of freshly- boiled shrimps free from shells. Put the shells in a mortar with an ounce of fresh butter, and pound them thoroughly ; add a little lobster coral or carmine to give a bright red colour, and a very little cayenne pepper. Rub this through a fine sieve and put aside for use. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan and mix smoothly with it an ounce of flour; add half a pint of white stock, and when quite smooth and creamy put in the shrimps to warm, stirring them gently for a minute; add the coloured butter, turn out the gas, and as soon as the butter is dissolved, lift the shrimps out with a spoon ; put them in the omelet, and fold it over as directed above. Pour the sauce round through a strainer and serve. Grilled Pork Chops. [Sauce Robert.) Trim six cutlets taken from the neck of pork. Chop off the back bone and scrape the skin and meat adhering to the top of the bone, which should be chopped off within an inch of the meat. Beat the cutlets to give them a good192 The Art of Cooking by Gas. shape; pepper and salt them. Dissolve two ounces of butter and dip the cutlets in on both sides; cover them with bread-crumbs and put them in the griller, which has been heated for five minutes previously. Reduce the gas to half full on, and grill them for fifteen minutes, turning them over two or three times with the tongs. Sprinkle a little chopped-up gherkin on each, and dish up very hot with small paper frills slipped on the bones. If the.chops are cut from the loin, trim them as directed for mutton chops, and grill for twenty minutes. Sauce Robert for Pork Chops, etc.—Peel and chop finely three onions. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan over the gas, turned three-quarter full; put in the onions and fry them a bright brown. Add a quarter of a pint of French white wine, and boil up to reduce the liquid to about half the quantity. Add half a pint of brown sauce (see page 73), a bunch of herbs, and four crushed peppercorns. Reduce the gas to half full on, and simmer for twenty minutes ; skim well, add a dessert-spoonful of tarragon vinegar and a tea- spoonful of made mustard. Strain or tammy the sauce; return it to the saucepan and keep hot in the bain-marie. A little piece of glaze dissolved in it is an improvement, and should be put in after the sauce has been strained. Macaroni a la Napolitaine. Break a' quarter of a pound of the best macaroni in short lengths; put it in boiling water over the gas, turned three- quarter full on, with a pinch of salt and one of pepper. Let it boil, but not fast, for twenty minutes; turn it out in a colander and drain it thoroughly. Rinse and wipe the saucepan; put in the macaroni, and pour over it barely half a pint of white stock ; cover and reduce the gas to half-full on ; simmer until the stock is all absorbed. Grate two ounces of Parmesan and two ounces of Gruyere; mix them together.193 L UNCHEONS—FEBR UA K V. Strew the cheese gradually in the macaroni with one hand while stirring briskly with a wooden spoon. When it is all mixed, sprinkle in a very little cayenne pepper, and turn out on a hot dish. For macaroni au gratin boil as above and finish as for cauliflowers au gratin (see page 101). Sice Croquettes. Wash and pick half a pound of Carolina rice, put it in a saucepan of boiling water over the gas turned three-quarter full on, and boil for ten minutes; then wash it under the cold-water tap and drain it thoroughly. In the meantime put in a stewpan a quart of milk, boil it up over the gas turned three-quarter full on, put in the rice, six ounces of sugar, and a tea-spoonful of yellow rind of lemon finely grated. Reduce the gas to half full on, and simmer the rice until it is quite tender—it will take about an hour ; if it gets too dry, add a little more milk. Be careful it does not burn ; should this occur, the only way to save it is to transfer it at once to another stewpan, leaving out the part which has stuck to the first pan. When it is done, put in an ounce of very fresh butter, break an egg in a cup, make sure it is quite sweet, put it in the rice and stir well to mix it in ; add two more eggs in the same way. Butter a baking tin and turn the rice out on it in a layer one inch and a half thick; let it remain until quite cold. Divide it in pieces two inches and a half long and roll it to the shape of corks. Beat two eggs on a plate, dip the croquettes in, roll them in fine bread-crumbs, pat them into good shape, and fry in hot fat to a golden brown. Drain them on a hot cloth, strew sugar over them, and dish them very hot. They can also be shaped like small apples and pears, in which case, stick in a strip of angelica an inch long to represent the stalk. Remember to rinse at once under the hot-water tap the stewpan in which the rice has been boiled, as the rice, being N194 The Art of Cooking by Gas. hot and soft, will then be easily removed ; but if allowed to get cold and dry, it is troublesome to clean off. MARCH. Vol-au-Vent with Fish Quenelles. Vol-au-Vent aux Quenelles de Poisson. Calf s Head Fried. Sauce Piquante. Tele de Veau Frite. Sauce Piquante. Boiied Marrow-bones. Os a Moelle. Bread and Butter Pudding. Pudding de Pain Beurre. Vol-au-Vent with. Fish Quenelles. Make a puff paste, using half the quantity indicated for Bouchees a la Reine, see page no, where full directions will be found for it. Give it six turns, and let it rest five minutes. Put it on a baking-sheet, and roll it out in a round form to the thickness of three-quarters of an inch. Put the lid of a saucepan of the required size, say nine inches in diameter, on the paste, and with a sharp knife cut all round to shape the vol-au-vent, then draw a circle with the point of the knife about an inch and a half from the edge, and a quarter of an inch deep. The middle, which will form the cover, can be ornamented with the point of the knife. Brush it all over with the yolk of an egg beaten up with a spoonful of water. The gas having been lighted for fifteen minutes in the oven of the Charing Cross kitchener, put in the vol-au- vent and bake it for thirty to thirty-five minutes, according to size. Should it turn colour too quickly, put a piece of buttered paper over it. If well made, it will rise very much. Take it out, and with a sharp knife lift the cover off; scoop out quickly the soft crumb of the inside, fill the vol-au-vent, put on the cover, ornament it with crayfish or prawns, and serve hot. Quenelles of Fish.—Pound three-quarters of a pound of filleted whiting, turbot, fresh haddock, or other white fish. Add to it a quarter of a pound of panade {see below) and half a pound of butter; season with a salt-spoonful ofi95 L UNCHEONS—Ma R CH. grated nutmeg, one of salt, and a pinch of white pepper. When well mixed and quite smooth, add two whole eggs, stir them well in, rub the farce through a wire-sieve. Flour the pastry slab lightly, turn the farce out on it and shape it into long olives. Put these in a saucepan of boiling water, slightly salted. Boil for five minutes, reduce the gas to half full on, and simmer for ten minutes longer. Take the quenelles out, and drain them carefully. Warm them for five minutes in half a pint of bechamel maigre (see page 140), and put them and the sauce in the vol-au-vent just before serving. Patiade.—Soak four ounces of bread-crumb in a little milk. Squeeze it to remove the superfluous moisture. Put it in a small stewpan with half an ounce of butter. Stir gently over the gas turned half full on, add the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs rubbed through a wire-sieve (the whites can be cut in small strips and added to the sauce if liked). When the panade is quite smooth, and so dry as not to cling to the saucepan any more, it is ready for use. Quenelles are given here to fill the vol-au-vent, but any kind of cooked white meat or fish, neatly filleted, can be used, and indeed a vol-au-vent affords a very elegant means of warming up cold fish, fowl, turkey, pheasant, etc. In all cases the meat, etc., used for filling must be cut in small neat pieces, and warmed in be'chamel grasse or maigre, as directed. See “ Chicken Bechamel” (see page 251) and also “Stewed Eels” (see page 228). Calf’s Head Fried. (Sauce Piquaiite.) Cut the gelatinous part of a cold calf’s head into neat pieces two and a half inches long and one inch and a half broad. Chop finely or pass through a mincing machine the meaty parts and any of the brain and tongue that may be left. Add half the weight of the mince thus procured inJ 96 The Art of Cooking by Gas. rather fat bacon, also finely minced. Pound well together, season with a little pepper and salt and a tea-spoonful of chopped-up parsley; if the farce is too stiff, add a little butter. Mask the pieces of calfs head with this farce, that is to say, roll them all over in a thin layer of it. Dip in frying-batter (see page 50), and fry in hot fat. Drain the pieces on a hot cloth, and pile them up on a very hot dish. Garnish with fried parsley. Send up with sauce piquante in a boat. Sauce Piquante.—Peel and chop finely half an ounce of shallot, put it in the corner of a clean cloth, wrap it in, dip it several times in cold water, and squeeze it well. Melt an ounce of butter in a saucepan over the gas turned three- quarter full on, add the shallot and a wine-glassful of French vinegar, stir until the butter looks quite clear. Add an ounce of flour, and stir again until it has acquired a bright brown colour, put in half a pint of stock and a good pinch of pepper, bring up to boiling-point, skim, reduce the gas to half full on, and simmer for twenty minutes, add a table- spoonful of chopped-up gherkin and a table-spoonful of chopped-up parsley, which has been washed like the shallot, turn the gas full on again. Boil up and skim ; taste to ascertain if any salt is required, and serve. If salt was put in when the stock was made, there will probably be no need to put any in the sauce. This sauce is good with almost any kind of cold meat warmed up. It is also useful with grilled meat and fowl. Boiled Marrow-bones. Saw the marrow-bones neatly in halves and cover them with a plain paste of flour and water (see below). Tie each piece in a cloth firmly, and stand the pieces upright in a saucepan of boiling water to which a little salt has been added. Boil them up over the gas turned three-quarter full on, then reduce the gas a little and simmer for two hours.197 L UNCHEONS—A PR 1L. Take them out, remove the cloth and paste, wipe the bones, and fasten a small serviette round each half, keeping them in an upright position. Send them up quickly, and hand round with them some crisp toast cut in small and pretty shapes. Allow half a bone to each person, and put a marrow-spoon on each plate. Paste for Marrow-bones.—Mix a pound and a half of flour with just enough water to make it into a stiff paste, roll it out, and cut it in convenient pieces, wrap it round the open end of each bone so as to close it, fastening the cloth over it firmly to keep it in place. Bread-and-Butter Pudding. Butter six slices of bread, free from crust. Make a custard with a pint of milk and two eggs, as directed for Baked Custard (see page 151). Put two table-spoonfuls of picked currants, raisins, sultanas or dried cherries in a deep dish, arrange the slices of bread-and-butter in layers, and pour the custard over the whole so that the bread may be evenly soaked; strew a spoonful more of the fruit on the top. Light the gas in the oven for ten minutes, put in the pudding, reduce the gas to half full on, and bake for twenty-five minutes. APRIL. Fritto Misto. Pigeons Spread Eagle. Poor Man’s Sauce. Fricassee of Peas. Eclairs au Caf(E Friture Melee. Pigeons la Crapaudine. Sauce au Pauvre Homme. Fricasse'e de Pois. Eclairs au Cafe. Fritto Misto. This dish, of which I give the original name, as having no exact equivalent in English, is a great favourite in Italy. Calf’s and sheep’s brains, calf’s and fowl’s liver, filleted fowl, artichoke bottoms; or, if fish be preferred, filleted fish,198 The Art op Cooking by Gas. mussels, oysters, etc., are all good for this dish ; in fact, the more variety is introduced the better. Everything ex- cept oysters must be cooked beforehand. Cut the liver and brain in slices an inch thick, dip them in frying batter, and fry them in hot fat. Divide the artichoke bottoms in round pieces the size of a halfpenny with a vegetable cutter, and fry them in the same manner. Beard the oysters and fry them also in batter, and finish by frying parsley for garnishing. Drain everything thoroughly on a hot cloth. Sprinkle a little fine salt on each of the articles. Pile up the larger slices in the middle of the dish, arrange the oysters and artichoke bottoms in little groups around, and crown with a bunch of crisp parsley. Serve hot. If mussels are used, they should be cooked as directed for those used in garnishing the Sole Normande (see page 219). Their liquor and the liquor and beards of the oysters will be useful for flavouring fish stock. Pigeons Spread Eagle. (Poor Man's Sauce.) Take three young fat pigeons. Split them down the back, take out their livers, and spread them on the table, bat them flat without breaking the bones any more than possible, twist the wings up on each side of the breast. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a saucepan, add to it a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, two chives peeled, chopped, washed, and squeezed in the corner of a cloth to soften their acridity, the livers of the pigeons rubbed through a wire sieve, a pinch of salt, and one of pepper. Dip a brush in the butter and brush the pigeons all over, upper and under side, and divide the seasoning amongst them, cover- ing the breast smoothly with it. Then brush them over with beaten egg, and cover them with bread-crumbs, hand- ling them carefully so as not to disturb the seasoning. Light the gas for five minutes in the griller, wipe the panL UNCHEONS—A PR1L. 199 and grid, and rub the bars with a little butter. Arrange the pigeons on the grid breast up, and put it back, reduce the gas to three-quarter full on. Grill for fifteen minutes, turn- ing them once carefully. Serve hot with the following sauce in a boat. Poor Man's Sauce.—Peel and chop finely half an ounce of shallot, fold it in a cloth, dip it in cold water, and squeeze it several times. Put it in a small saucepan with a wine- glassful of vinegar, set the saucepan over the gas turned three-quarter full on, and boil until the vinegar is all ab- sorbed, add half a pint of stock or gravy, a little salt, if necessary, and a pinch of pepper. Boil up for five minutes and skim, add a dessert-spoonful of parsley chopped up and washed, as directed for the shallot, and send up to the table in a sauce tureen. Fricassee of Peas. This dish can be prepared either with fresh or preserved peas, and, indeed, will make preserved peas very tasty and pleasant. If the peas are fresh, boil them as directed on page 75; if they are preseved, open the tin, drain the peas from the liquor they are preserved in, and throw this liquor away. Melt in a stewpan over the gas turned three- quarter full on, an ounce and a half of butter, add one ounce of flour, mix well without discolouring ; pour in half a pint of boiling white stock, add a pinch of pepper, and one of castor sugar. Simmer for five minutes, put in the peas, and shake them well in, warm thoroughly, add three table- spoonfuls of boiled ham, tongue, or bacon, cut in very small pieces, garnish with crofitons, and serve hot. Note.—Tinned articles of food, such as peas, artichoke bottoms, etc., when well prepared and fresh are very useful in the kitchen, but care should be taken to ascertain their condition. If the tin is bright-looking inside, and the con- tents have a pleasant smell of their own, they are good ; but200 The Art of Cooking by Gas. if the tin is discoloured, and presents a crystallised appear- ance, and the smell is unpleasant, the contents are stale and cannot be safely used. Peas, etc., preserved in glass bottles are preferable, and should always be used when they can be obtained. Eclairs au Cafe. Make a paste as for choux h. la creme (see page 79), put it in a forcing-bag with plain pipe end, squeeze it out on a baking-tin in lengths of four inches, and rather more than an inch wide. Beat up an egg and brush the eclairs over with it. The oven having been heated for ten minutes, put in the eclairs, reduce the gas to three-quarter full on, and bake for twenty-five to thirty minutes. They must look a light brown. Put them on a pastry-rack, or a coarse sieve, to get cold. Make a horizontal slit in the side, and fill them with whipped cream (see page 73), flavoured and sweetened, and squeezed in through a forcing-bag. Ice with coffee icing, and when quite dry, pile up on a dish covered with a lace paper. Coffee Icing.—Mix half a pound of icing sugar with two table-spoonfuls of strong coffee, stir well together, warm through, and use. The best way to proceed is to have the icing in the saucepan by the side of the eclairs, and holding each one over the pan pour the icing over it with a spoon, so that it spreads evenly and quickly, returning them at once to the rack which is standing on a dish. MAY. Omelet .with Asparagus Tops. Omelette aux Pointes d’Asperges. Duckling with young Turnips. Caneton aux Navets. Potato Salad. Salade de Ponimes de Terre. Golden Bread. Pain Don?. Omelet with. Asparagus Tops. Prepare an omelet as directed on page 90. Put 6n half of it the asparagus prepared as below, fold the other half over, and slip the omelet on to a very hot dish.Luncheons—Ma y. 201 Asparagus for Omelet.—The green asparagus with long slender stalks is best for this purpose. Cleanse about four dozen sticks of asparagus, cutting off the end of the stalks, and boil them for twenty minutes in water with a little salt added to it. Drain them, cut all the tender part in pieces half an inch long; there ought to be enough to fill a half-pint measure. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan, and mix smoothly with it half an ounce of flour ; add half a pint of white stock; mix well, and when smooth, boil over the gas, turned three-quarter full on, to reduce the sauce until quite creamy-looking; add a little pepper and a very-little salt if necessary. Put in the pieces of asparagus to warm, stirring them gently so as not to break them, and as soon as they are hot, use them as directed above. Duckling with Turnips. Truss a duckling with the legs folded back and close to the sides, and the pinions tucked under ; fasten with string firmly. Melt one ounce-and a half of butter in a stewpan over the gas, turned three-quarter full, on, add a salt- spoonful of salt and a pinch of pepper, and put in the duck. Brown it, and turn it over so that it gets evenly coloured. Take it out, and put it in a deep dish in the oven to keep warm. Put an ounce of flour in the stewpan and stir it till smooth and brown. Add three-quarters of a pint of stock, mix well and boil up, skim, and boil for five minutes. Strain the sauce, rinse and wipe the stewpan. Put in the duck, a bunch of herbs, a very little fresh sage, and an onion stuck with two cloves. As soon as these are nearly boiling, reduce the gas to half full on, and simmer for half an hour. Add twenty-four small young turnips (prepared as below), and simmer again until the turnips are done; they will take about fifteen minutes, being already half cooked. Prick them with a larding-needle ; if it goes through easily they are done. Remove the string, put theThe Art of Cooking by Gas. 202 duck on a very hot dish, arrange the turnips round it, take the fat off the sauce and pour it over through a strainer. Turnips for Garnishing Duck.—Peel twenty-four young turnips. Wash and drain them, boil them for five minutes in water to which a little salt has been added; drain them again. Put an ounce of butter in a stewpan, add the turnips and fry them, shaking the pan to colour them evenly; eight minutes will be quite sufficient for young turnips. Full-grown turnips can be treated in the same manner, but they should be cut in pieces the size and shape of pigeons’ eggs, and fried for ten minutes. Drain them well, and add them to the duck as directed above to finish cooking. Potato Salad. Boil two pounds of new potatoes as directed on page 76. Peel and slice them. Make the seasoning in a basin with the following ingredients :—A tea-spoonful of salt, a salt- spoonful of white pepper, a table-spoonful of French vinegar, and a dessert-spoonful of tarragon vinegar. Stir to dissolve the salt, as it does not melt well in oil; then add a quarter of a pint of Lucca oil, and, if liked, a wineglassful of French white wine. Potatoes absorb a good deal of seasoning, and want proportionally a larger quantity than green-leaf salads. Chop finely a handful of mustard and cress, a sprig of tarragon, one of chervil, a little chive, half a shallot if liked, a little burnet, a dessert-spoonful of capers, an anchovy boned, washed, and dried, and a small gherkin. All these can be used together, or some may be omitted if not handy or agreeable. Put a layer of potatoes in the salad bowl, sprinkle in some of the mixed herbs, put in another layer, and repeat this until all the potatoes and all the herbs are used. Beat the seasoning lightly with a fork and pour it in. Toss the potatoes well in it, but not roughly, to keep them unbroken. Keep the salad for an hour in a cool place, and stir it once more before serving. A couple of truffles203 L UNCHEONS—/JNE. stamped into thin round pieces the size of a halfpenny make a delicious addition to this salad. The parings of the truffles should be chopped up and put in with the herbs, etc. Golden Bread. Cut some slices of bread an inch thick, and with a pastry-cutter stamp them into rounds two inches in diameter. Having made twelve or fifteen of these, simmer three-quarters of a pint of milk for fifteen minutes with a table-spoonful of sugar, a pinch of salt, and an inch of vanilla, or a dessert-spoonful of finely-shredded yellow lemon rind. Beat the yolk of an egg with two table-spoonfuls of cold milk in a deep dish, pour in the hot milk through a strainer, and stir well together. Put in the pieces of bread, turn them over to soak evenly, lift them out, soft but un- broken, and drain them. Beat up a whole egg, dip the pieces of bread in, cover them with bread-crumbs, and fry in hot fat. Drain them well on a hot cloth, sprinkle with castor sugar, and pile up on a hot dish. JUNE. Mayonnaise of Turbot. Lamb Cutlets with Jardiniere. Fried Artichokes. Fresh Fruit Tartlets. Mayonnaise de Turbot. Coteletlcs d’Agneau k la Jardiniere. Artichauts Frits. Tartelettes aux Fruits. Mayonnaise of Turbot. Divide two pounds of cold boiled turbot in small neat ’ pieces, either cut square with a knife or stamped round with a pastry-cutter. Cut off the stalks and outer leaves of two lettuces, and wash them if necessary; but if they are clean and fresh, wiping them ought to be sufficient; if washed, dry them thoroughly. Break them in small bunches, put them in a deep dish, sprinkle on them a salt-spoonful of7he Art of Cooking by Gas. 204 salt, one of pepper, a table-spoonful of French vinegar, and two of oil. Toss the salad lightly, and let it drain a while. Prepare the following ingredients :—Four hard-boiled eggs, four washed and filleted anchovies, sixteen stoned olives, a large table-spoonful of lobster coral which has been rubbed through a sieve, a table-spoonful of chopped-up chervil, and one of capers. Make half a pint of mayonnaise sauce. (See page 97.) Everything should be in readiness before beginning to dress the dish. Drain the salad and put it on a dish, pressing it together to form a firm basis ; arrange the fish over it in a circle, each piece slightly overlapping the other, and fill up the middle with the parings of the fish chopped small; pile this up quite level with the outer ring. Cover all smoothly with the sauce, which has been made very firm and creamy. Shell the eggs, wipe them, divide them first lengthwise, then across the middle to make four quarters of each egg. Stand these, yolk outwards, round the basis of the mayonnaise, and put an olive between each two pieces of egg. Each anchovy being divided into two fillets, lay these fillets on the top, all pointing to the middle and forming a double cross. In the spaces thus formed sprinkle alternately a little lobster coral and a little chervil, keeping the colours quite distinct. Pile up the capers at the top of the middle, and keep in a cool place till wanted. Mayonnaise is a useful dish for luncheons and cold suppers ; it can be made of fish as above, or of fowl, turkey, etc. It lends itself to a great variety of ornamentation. In * addition to the things already mentioned, cucumber, beet- root, truffles, red chillies, cut in strips or stamped with a vegetable-cutter, in rounds, stars, crescents, etc., are also very ornamental. The olives can be farced with anchovies. Prawns make a very pretty garnish, and stiff aspic jelly, either plain or coloured a delicate green and cut into small blocks, forms an elegant border.205 L UNCHEONS—-JUNE. Lamb Cutlets with Jardiniere. Allow two cutlets to each person, trim them, by chop- ping off the backbone, scrape off the skin and fat on the cutlet bone, and chop it off within an inch of the meat. For twelve cutlets, dissolve two ounces of butter, dip the cutlets in on both sides. Sprinkle a little pepper and salt on them, and cover them with bread-crumbs. Having lit the gas in the griller for five minutes, wipe the pan and grid, put the cutlets on the grid, and put it back in its place. . Reduce the gas to three-quarter full on, and grill for five minutes, turning them over two or three times with the tongs. Should they be rather thick, one minute longer may be necessary, but if they are overdone they are spoiled. Try them by pinching them between the steak tongs; if they feel soft and spongy, they want more cooking, but as soon as they feel firm, they are done, and must be taken out and served; every moment lost in waiting detracts from their excellence. Pile up the vegetables composing the jardiniere garnish in the centre of a hot dish. Stand the cutets upright all round. Slip a little paper frill on each bone, and away with them to the table as quickly as possible. Jardiniere Garnish.—Peelsome young turnips and carrots, cut them with a vegetable scoop in little balls the size of a small Spanish nut. Have three ounces of each, put them in separate saucepans, each containing a pint of boiling water and a salt-spoonful of salt, simmer them over the gas half full on until tender, they will take about twenty minutes. Ascer- tain that they are done by pricking with a larding-needle, they must be soft, but not broken. Boil three ounces of green asparagus as directed for omelet with asparagus tops (see page 201), three ounces of peas (see page 75), and three ounces of French beans (see page 168). Drain all the veget- ables, and cut the French beans in pieces half an inch square. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan, mix smoothly with206 The Art of Cooking by Gas. it half an ounce of flour, cook it for three minutes over the gas turned three-quarter full on, add a quarter of a pint of mutton gravy, a pinch of pepper, one of sugar, and one of salt, mix well, put in the vegetables, reduce the gas to half full on, and just warm through, stirring gently so as not to break the vegetables. Pile them up on a hot dish as directed above, and stand the cutlets round them. The trimmings of the vegetables go to the stockpot for flavouring stock. Fried Artichokes. Take three fresh young artichokes, cut off the stalks, re- move the lower leaves, and pare the bottoms as for boiling; then, holding the artichoke in one hand, and the knife in the other, seize hold of five or six leaves, and cut down, so that part of the bottom comes away with them. Throw these pieces in a basin of water to which vinegar has been added in the proportion of two table-spoonfuls to a quart. The middle leaves will cling too closely together to be divided, and must be lifted out bodily; remove the choke very care- fully so that none is left. Each artichoke will yield ten or twelve pieces, according to size. Trim off the topsof theleaves, wipe the artichokes, and season them with a little pepper and salt. Dip them in frying batter, coating them all over evenly, and fry in hot fat. As the artichokes have to be cooked, they must not be fried too quickly, or they will be brown outside before the inside is done. So, having heated the fat, test it by throwing in a piece of bread-crumb. The fat must only just bubble without making much noise. Put in the artichokes, a few pieces at a time, not to cool the fat too much. Move them about with a slice, and when they look a nice brown lift them out, and drain them on a hot cloth. Fry the rest in the same manner and, last of all, a bunch of parsley, picked, washed, and dried. Pile up the pieces of artichokes on a hot dish, and put the crisp parsley at the top.L UNCHEONS—/UNE. 207 Fresli Fruit Tartlets. Prepare a puff paste (see page no), and having given it six turns, roll it out to the thickness of a penny piece. Line a dozen buttered patty-pans with it, and prick a few holes in the middle of each to prevent the pastry from puffing up. Light the gas in the oven of the kitchener for fifteen minutes before the tartlets are ready to put in, and when they are in, reduce the gas a little. Bake for twenty minutes. In the meantime, pick free from stalks enough strawberries to allow five or six to each tartlet according to their size. They should be ripe, but quite firm and unbroken, and as even in size as practicable. Put them in a basin and sprinkle a little fine sifted sugar over them. Make a syrup by dissolving eight ounces of loaf sugar in a pint of water. Boil this over the gas turned three-quarter full on until it is reduced to half a pint. Skim it, add a little carmine to colour the syrup a deep clear red. Pour the syrup gently through a strainer over the strawberries and let them stand for a few minutes. The tartlets being done, take them out and put them on a pastry-rack. Pick the strawberries out one by one, and arrange them round the tartlets, five or six in each, leaving the centre free. Put a spoonful of syrup in each tartlet. Whip stiffly a quarter of a pint of cream, with a dessert-spoonful of castor sugar, and with a forcing-bag and rose pipe, squeeze out a little in the middle of each tartlet. Serve at once. These tartlets can also be served cold, in which case it is best to allow them to cool before the fruit and syrup, also cold, are put in. The cream can be omitted and replaced by a strawberry. Instead of strawberries, raspberries, cur- rants, or cherries, can be used, the last named having been carefully stoned.The Art of Cooking by Gas. 208 JULY. Lobster Croquettes. Chaudfroid of Chicken. Summer Salad. Crystallised Currants. Croquettes de Hqmard. Chaudfroid de Poulet. Salade d'Ist£. Groseilles Cristallise'es. Lobster Croquettes. Choose a fine freshly-boiled hen lobster, having two good claws. Cut it open and pick out all the meat from the tail and claws, and chop it up quite small. Wash the coral, wipe it, dry it in the warm oven, and pound it in a mortar with half an ounce of butter. Break the shell and put it in a stewpan with half a pint of milk. Simmer it over the gas turned half full.on for twenty minutes, then strain off the milk. Rinse and wipe the stewpan. Melt an ounce of butter in it over the gas turned three-quarter full on, and mix smoothly with it an ounce of flour. Cook it for five minutes without discolouring, add the milk in which the shell was boiled. Stir quickly until smooth and creamy, let it boil five minutes, turn out the gas, stir in half a tea- spoonful of anchovy sauce. Put in a little piece of the lobster butter, stir it in well and add some more, until the sauce is coloured a bright red, then add a very small pinch of cayenne pepper. Lobster croquettes should be rather highly seasoned. Taste to ascertain whether the anchovy has made the sauce salt enough, and if not, add a little salt. Stir in the chopped lobster, so that it mixes well with the sauce ; turn it all out on a plate, cover it with a buttered paper, and put it in a cool place to get quite cold before making it into croquettes. Flour the board or slab, take a little of the lobster, and roll it to the shape of a claret cork about two and a half inches long and an inch in diameter, patting it into shape with a palette knife. Beat an egg on a plate with a pinch of salt, one of pepper, and a table- spoonful of oil. Dip the croquette in this, so that it isL UNCHEONS—JUL V. 209 evenly covered. Roll it in fine bread-crumbs, pat it into good shape again, and put it on a sieve ready for frying. Continue this until all the lobster is used. In the mean- time heat the fat. It can be made very hot, because the lobster is cooked, and the croquettes only want browning. Arrange them in the hot frying-basket so that they do not touch each other, and dip them in the hot fat. As soon as they are a golden brown, take them out, drain them on a hot cloth, and fry another batch, allowing a couple of minutes between each batch, for the fat to get hot again. When they are all done and quite dry, dish them with a little crisply-fried parsley to garnish. They are served alone, or with a tomato sauce, or a ravigote sauce. These croquettes can also be shaped like small cutlets, in which case the small claws of the lobster should be cut in inch lengths, and a piece stuck in each croquette to represent the cutlet bone. Fried in round croquettes they look well piled up in rows of four, each row going across the preceding one ; but when they are made in cutlet shape they look best dished standing round the dish, each one overlapping the next, and the middle space filled with the fried parsley. Chaudfroid of Chicken. Dissolve one ounce of butter in a stewpan, and mix smoothly with it one ounce of fine sifted flour; fry it, with- out discolouring, over the gas turned three-quarter full on. Pour in half a pint of good white stock and stir till it boils, then add a quarter of a pint of cream, and boil a little longer. Skim well, reduce the gas to half full on, simmer for ten minutes, season with a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, and a very little cayenne pepper. Add half a pint of aspic jelly (see page 70), turn the gas up again and boil rather fast to reduce the sauce, until thick enough to coat the spoon to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Put it oThe Art of Cooking by Gas. 2 10 aside to cool. Divide a roast or boiled chicken in neat joints, remove the skin and the pinions, and cut off short the leg-bone. As the sauce is getting cool, but not set, dip the pieces of chicken in and cover them evenly with the sauce, put them on a tin or dish in a cool place to get set, and when quite firm trim them neatly. Arrange them cna dish round a block of fried bread (see below), keeping two of the best pieces, say the breast, for the top. Garnish with chopped-up aspic jelly. One pint of aspic jelly will be sufficient for the sauce and this garnish, but if the jelly is wanted cut in blocks or other shapes, one pint and a half will be needed. The block of fried bread is made by cutting an oval piece of bread-crumb, two and a half inches high and four inches long. It should not be quite so broad at the top as it is at the bottom, so that the pieces will lean easily against it. Fry it in hot fat, drain it on a hot cloth, and let it get quite cold before using. Summer Salad. Peel a cucumber so as to have half a pound of it. Cut it in thin slices, and stamp these with a round vegetable- cutter ; cut the same weight of raw artichoke bottom in thin slices, and stamp it in the same manner. Add a quarter of a pound of celery cut in small dice. Put these three things in a deep dish and sprinkle them with salt ; leave them for two hours, take them out and drain them. Put them in the salad-bowl with a quarter of a pound of beetroot, stamped like the cucumber, and three tomatoes peeled and sliced. Sprinkle over all a tablespoonful of rather coarsely-chopped chervil, using only the leaves and no stalks at all. For the seasoning, put in a basin the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, which has been rubbed through a sieve, a salt-spoonful of mustard, one of salt and one of pepper; mix smoothly with a table-spoonful of FrenchL UNCHEONS—A UG US T. 2 I I vinegar, and a dessert-spoonful of tarragon or chili vinegar, add four table-spoonfuls of Lucca oil, beat lightly with a fork, and when quite smooth pour it on the salad, mix well, and keep it in a cool place until wanted. Crystallized Currants. Take equal parts of fine red currants and white currants in bunches, say one pound of each, see that they are quite free from grit and remove any that are damaged. Beat two whites of eggs with half a pint of cold water in a basin, dip the bunches one by one in this, and put them on a sieve to drain for a few minutes. Roll them in fine sifted sugar. Dry them on a large sheet of paper or a sieve, so that they do not touch each other. The sugar crystallizes round the currants and looks very pretty. When quite dry, pile them up in four parts on a dish, alternating the colours. AUGUST. Fried Roach and Dace. Chicken Fricassee. Grilled Tomatoes. Greengages with Cream. Friture de Riviere. Fricassee de Poulet. Tomates Grillees. Reines Claude a la Creme. Fried Roach and Dace. Cleanse and wash carefully some freshly-caught roach and dace, dry them, flour them lightly, cover them with egg and bread-crumbs, and fry as directed for smelt and gudgeon. (See page no.) Serve with brown bread-and- butter and quartered lemons. These fish taken in running water are a great deal better than their reputation, and little deserve the contemptuous name of “ coarse fish ” applied to them without distinction. Crisply fried, as soon as practicable after they are caught, they form a very dainty and appetizing dish. Loach, bleak, and other small river fish, can be treated in the same manner.The Art of Cooking by Gas. 2 1 2 Chicken Fricassee. Choose for this dish a fine young fowl, rather fleshy than fat. Divide it in neat joints, taking care to break the skin as little as possible. Cut the pinions from the wings, and the thighs from the legs; divide the neck, the breast, and the back in two pieces each. Trim all the joints neatly, and rub them with lemon-juice, taking care not to peel off the skin. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan over the gas, turned three-quarter full on, and mix smoothly with it an ounce of flour; cook this for five minutes without discolour- ing, add a pint of white stock, a salt-spoonful of pepper, a bunch of herbs, a little chive, and two cloves. Mix well; add the pieces of chicken. Butter a piece of paper and cover the stewpan with it, and put on the lid a little on one side, so that it does not quite cover the pan. Reduce the gas to half full on, and occasionally give the saucepan a gentle shake. Prepare twelve very small onions by peeling them and throwing them in boiling water to which a pinch of salt has been added. Boil them for five minutes, strain them, and lay them in cold water. Clean two dozen button mushrooms by cutting off the tip of the stalks and throwing them in a basin of cold water. Wash them quickly to remove any grit that may be adhering to them. Drain them ; put in a stewpan a table-spoonful of water, one ot lemon-juice, and a salt-spoonful of salt. Peel the mush- rooms thinly and throw them one by one in the stewpan, shake it so that they may get well rolled in the salt and lemon-juice, which will whiten them. When they are all in, add an ounce of butter, turn the gas on under the pan and boil for five minutes, shaking the pan repeatedly to cook the mushrooms evenly. Turn them out with their liquor in a basin, and cover them with a piece of buttered paper to prevent them from discolouring.L UNCHEONS—A UGUST. 213 When the chicken has been simmering for thirty-five minutes, add the onions, the mushrooms and their liquor, to it; stir carefully to mix the contents of the pan, and cook for twenty minutes more. Dish the pieces of chicken in the following order :— In the middle of the dish put the two pieces of the back side by side ; on these the pinions and the two pieces of the neck ; on the top, the two pieces of breast. Keep all this a good square shape, and lean against it, standing round the sides, the two legs, the thighs, and the wings. Arrange the onions and mushrooms in little bunches between the joints, and put a fine well-shaped mushroom at the top. Put the dish in the oven to keep warm. Beat lightly three yolks of eggs with a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice and a spoonful or two of the sauce, then gradually pour the mixture in the sauce, stirring to make it smooth and creamy; taste it to ascertain whether it is salt enough, as no other salt has been put in than that used in cooking the mushrooms. Pour the sauce through a strainer over the fricassee so that it is evenly covered, and serve hot. The point to be aimed at in a fricassee being to keep it perfectly white and creamy it is well to omit the liver, which might colour the sauce. But this need not be wasted, as chicken livers are always useful for farces, etc. A fine cray- fish placed on the top and four smaller ones round the sides give a very elegant look to the fricassee, or it can be gar- nished more simply with fried croutons round the dish, and a little lobster coral sprinkled on the top. Grilled Tomatoes. Cut a dozen fine tomatoes in halves. Put on each half a pinch of pepper and salt mixed together, a pinch of finely-chopped up parsley, and a piece of butter the size of a Spanish nut. Heat the griller for five minutes, wipe the grid and pan, and rub the bars with a little butter.The Art of Cooking by Gas: 2I4 Arrange the tomatoes on the grid and grill them, with the gas three-quarter full on, for ten minutes. Lift the tomatoes carefully, and put them on a very hot dish. Serve at once. Greengages with Cream. Put two dozen fine ripe greengages in a stewpan with ten ounces of loaf sugar and half a pint of water. Cover the pan, turn the gas three-quarter full on, and when the sugar is melted reduce the gas to half full on, simmer for ten minutes, shaking the pan gently two or three times to ensure even cooking. Lift out the fruit one by one with a spoon, so as not to break them; put them in a glass dish. Strain the syrup, rinse and wipe the pan, put the syrup in again, turn the gas three-quarter full on, and boil the syrup until reduced to little more than half the quantity. Skim it wrell, add a drop or two of sap-green to make it a good colour. Let it cool a little, and pour it over the fruit. Whip stiffly a pint of good cream (see page 73), and serve it separately in custard cups. SEPTEMBER. Roast Pike. Stewed Rabbit. Mushrooms on Croustades. Sweet Omelet. Biochet Roti. Lapin Saute. Crputes aux Champignons. Omelette aux Confitures. Roast Pike. Supposing the fish to weigh about three pounds, cleanse and wash it thoroughly, empty it, cutting for that purpose a little way down the belly. Remove the roe, if any, and reserve the liver for the forcemeat. Thoroughly wipe the inside of the fish, but do not wash it. Hold it by the tail and scale it carefully, beginning near the tail and scraping against the scales all the way up till the head is reached. Wipe the fish. Cleanse a pound eel as indicated for fried eels. Cut off its head and tail, and trim off with scissors the215 L uncheons—September. small side bones. Cut the best parts of it in two-inch lengths, and divide these in lardons like those cut out of fat bacon. Season the lardons with a pinch of salt, one of pepper, one of nutmeg, and a dessert-spoonful of very finely chopped chervil, parsley, and chives; roll them lightly in the season- ing, and lard the pike all the way down with them on both sides. (See at “ Fricandeau,” page 144, full directions for larding.) Chop finely the rest of the eel, taking care that no bones remain adhering to the fish; beard six oysters, chop them up with three washed and filleted anchovies and the liver of the fish. Season with a tea-spoonful of finely chopped chives, one of marjoram, one of thyme, a salt- spoonful of salt, and a pinch of pepper. The beards and liquor of the oysters having been simmered for fifteen minutes in a quarter of a pint of milk, strain the milk, soak in it four ounces of bread-crumb, squeeze the bread rather dry, add it to the farce, and mix it all well together with two ounces of butter just warmed. Fill the fish with the farce, and sew the opening securely. Put the spit right through in at the mouth and out at the tail. Butter a double thick- ness of paper, and wrap the fish closely in it, tying it at both ends and in several places with tape. Light the gas in the roaster for ten minutes, and put four ounces of butter in the pan to dissolve. Put the pike in and start the turn- spit, reduce the gas to three-quarter full on, and pour in the pan a quarter of a pint of French white wine. Baste diligently with this and the butter all the time the fish is roasting. Thirty to thirty-five minutes will do for a fish of the size indicated. Lift it out, put it on a very hot dish, and remove the tape and paper carefully; take out the cotton used in stitching the opening. Garnish with parsley and slices of lemon. Crayfish or prawns, when obtainable, also make a very pretty garnish. Sauce for Roast Pike.—Pound three washed and filleted anchovies very smoothly. Melt half an ounce of butter in a216 The Art of Cooking by Gas. small saucepan, and mix smoothly with it half an ounce of flour, cook for three minutes, strain the liquor left in the dripping-pan after roasting the pike ; if there is not enough of this, add a little light fish stock or boiling water to make up half a pint, add this to the sauce and bring up to boiling- point, stirring well to make it smooth. Skim, add the anchovies and a little pounded lobster coral, or, failing this, a few drops of carmine, and a very little cayenne pepper, last of all add a tea-spoonful of lemon juice, stir it well in, strain the sauce, and serve it in a tureen. The pike can also be prepared in the same manner and grilled instead of roasted, in which case it must be carefully turned over once or twice, and kept well basted while grill- ing. It can also be roasted or grilled without being larded, but the larding is a great improvement. If plainly roasted it should not be scaled. Stewed Rabbit. Cut a rabbit in small neat pieces, as much as possible all of a size, cutting through the thighs at the thickest part; carefully look for sharp or broken bones, which are dan- gerous and must be removed. Cut half a pound of rather lean bacon in pieces half an inch square and an inch long. Throw these in boiling water over the gas three-quarter full on, boil for five minutes, strain, and wash them in cold water, and wipe them lightly with a cloth. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan over the gas turned three-quarter full on, put in the bacon and fry it a light brown. Take it out and put it on a plate in the warm oven. Put the pieces of rabbit in the stewpan, and eook them for ten minutes, turning them now and then so that they may get evenly coloured. Sprinkle in two table-spoonfuls of Hour, and stir to mix smoothly, then put in the bacon, a bunch of herbs, half a pint of good stock, and a quarter of a pint of French white wine, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a pinch of pepper.2 I 7 L uncheons—Sep temper. Peel and blanch a dozen small onions for five minutes ; drain and put them in a siflall saucepan with half an ounce of butter and a pinch of castor sugar; shake them well in this over the gas turned three-quarter full on, and when they are a bright brown, but unbroken, add them to the rabbit. Cover the stewpan, reduce the gas to half full on, and simmer for twenty minutes, take out the bunch of herbs, remove the fat, cook for five minutes longer. Pile up the rabbit neatly on a hot dish, put the onions round it, and pour the sauce over it through a strainer. Two dozen mushrooms can be added to this dish, and will improve the taste of it. The mushrooms should be prepared beforehand as directed for chicken fricassee. Or a tea-spoonful of ketchup can be added to the sauce when the herbs are removed ; in this case, no salt should be put in the sauce before the ketchup is in, but, after stirring it in, the cook should taste to ascertain whether the sauce is salt enough. This dish is, however, excellent without the mushrooms, and in the present luncheon they are quite unnecessary, mush- rooms being handed round with it. Mushrooms on Croustades. Choose two dozen fine fresh mushrooms. Cut off the root end of the stalks, and- throw the mushrooms in cold water with a dessert-spoonful of vinegar added to it. Wash them to remove any grit adhering to them, drain and wipe them, cut off the stalks, and peel the mushrooms thinly. Butter a flat pan or a baking-tin, lay eighteen of the mush- rooms in it head downwards. Pare and chop finely the stalks and six other mushrooms, add the same quantity of finely-chopped parsley and two shallots which have been blanched in boiling water for ten minutes and chopped finely. Melt half an ounce of butter in a saucepan, fry the chopped mushrooms, etc., together for five minutes, add half a pint of good brown sauce, and boil until the farceThe Art of Cooking by Gas. 2 I 8 looks quite thick and firm. Divide it among the mushrooms, smooth over, cover it with brown bread-crumbs, and bake for twenty minutes in the oven of the kitchener, which Iras been heated for ten minutes previously, reducing the gas to three-quarter full on when the mushrooms are put in. Prepare six round croutons half an inch thick and two inches and a half across, fry them in hot fat, and drain them. Put three mushrooms on each crouton, two or three drops of lemon-juice on each mushroom, and serve at once. Sweet Omelet. Break six very fresh eggs, yolks and whites in separate basins. Add three ounces of castor sugar to the yolks, a pinch of salt, and a pinch of yellow lemon-rind very finely chopped ; mix well without beating. Put an ounce of sugar with the whites, whisk them until quite stiff, then stir them lightly with the yolks. In the meantime, melt half an ounce of fresh butter in the omelet-pan over the gas turned three- quarter full on. Put a dish in the oven, previously lighted for five minutes, and spread on the middle of it half a pound of apricot marmalade, or any other jam to taste. Put the eggs in the pan and tilt it gently, so that the omelet ■will assume a half-moon shape ; as soon as it is set slip it on to the dish. Sprinkle a little icing sugar over it, and leave it in the oven for about six minutes; when it has risen and looks brown and glazed, it is ready, and must be taken to the table without a moment’s delay. If the oven is in use when the omelet is made, it can be put under the griller, previously heated for five minutes, the grid and pan being removed and the dish put in their place. The sweet omelet can also be made like the omelet with herbs, but the herbs and seasoning are omitted; a table-spoonful of sugar added to the eggs while whisking, and the jam instead of being put in the dish under the omelet is put in the omelet itself before it is folded over.L uncheons— October. 219 OCTOBER. Sole Nonrmnde. Veal Cutlets. Spinach and Poached Eggs. Victoria Sandwiches. Sole Normande. Cotclettes de Veau. Epinards aux Quits Poches. Sandwiches d la Victoria. Sole Normande. Clean a fine sole and take off the dark skin. Make an incision along the back-bone from head to tail on the side from which the skin has been removed ; then, holding the knife in a slanting position, draw it gently along the slit so as to loosen the flesh from the bone a little on both sides ; this will keep the fish flat while cooking. Butter an oval dish large enough to take the sole and leave a little margin all round; the dish can be either silver or silver-plated, enamelled iron, or fire-proof earthenware. Chop very finely six or eight small onions which have been boiled for ten minutes and drained; sprinkle them over the dish. Pepper and salt the fish on both sides, lay it in the dish and pour a quarter of a pint of French white wine on it, cover it with a buttered paper, put it in the oven, previously lighted for ten minutes, reduce the gas to three-quarter full on, and cook the fish for about twenty minutes. Ascertain that it is done by lifting gently the flesh from the backbone with the point of a knife ; if the bone looks at all red, or even pink, the sole is not done. No precise time can be given, as the thickness of the fish varies a good deal. When it is done the flesh looks firm and opaque, and the backbone quite white. While the sole is cooking, prepare the following things :—Cleanse thoroughly from grit a quart of mussels, by scraping and washing them in several waters. Put them in a stewpan with a small sliced onion, a sprig or two of parsley, a salt-spoonful of pepper, and a quarter of a pint of white wine. Cover the pan and shake it over the gas, turned three-quarter full on. Watch the mussels, and remove at once those which open, they are done ; take them220 The Art of Cooking by Gas. out of the shells. When they are all out, wash them with a little warm water, and they are ready for use. Strain the liquor and put it aside. It will he useful for an onion soup. Prepare two dozen mushrooms, as indicated for chicken fricassee. (See page 212.) Cut half a dozen croutons to the shape of cocks’ combs, ready for frying; heat the fat on the frying-burner. Prepare also for frying half a dozen smelt. (See “Fried Smelt,” page 110.) Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan, and mix smoothly with it an ounce of flour; add to it half a pint of good fish stock, and, the sole being done, take the dish out of the oven and pour the liquor from it into the sauce, being care- ful not to disturb the sole. Put the fish in the oven, with the gas only half full on, to keep warm. Boil up the sauce, and skim it. Mix the yolk of an egg in a basin with a tea- spoonful of lemon-juice, add this to the sauce, gradually stirring to make it smooth ; reduce the gas to half full on, and put in the mussels and mushrooms. Just warm them through; taste the sauce in case it wants a little more salt or pepper. Arrange the mussels and mushrooms round the sole, and pour the sauce over through a strainer. Put the dish back in the oven. Fry the croutons and the smelt, drain them, ornament the dish with them, put a fine cray- fish or half a dozen prawns in the middle, and serve. I have given this dish in its entirety, and if carried out from these directions it will be found a very elegant dish, not only for luncheons, but also for choice little dinners, in which the aim of the hostess is to get out of the beaten track of boiled cod, turbot, and salmon, and so give her guests a welcome change of fare. Oysters can be used along with the mussels, or in place of them; to prepare them, beard them, put them in a small strainer or wire-basket, plunge them in boiling water just for a minute, drain, and add them to the sauce.Luncheons — October. 22 1 The sole norniande can also be made more simply with the mussels and mushrooms, without the garnishing of croutons, smelt, crayfish, etc. Veal Cutlets. Pare neatly six veal cutlets by chopping off the backbone, cutting short the rib-bone, removing the excess of fat, and fastening the flap round with a small wooden skewer. But- ter a saute pan. Season the cutlets on both sides with pepper and salt and a very little grated nutmeg, lay them in the pan so that they do not overlap each other, but lie flat at the bottom of it. Turn the gas three-quarter full on and fry the cutlets a bright brown. When they are coloured on one side, turn them over and brown the other side. Pour in at the side of the pan half a pint of hot beef or veal stock, and a wine-glassful of sherry or Madeira. Re- duce the gas to half full on, and simmer for twenty minutes. Chop finely enough shallot to fill a table-spoon, wash and squeeze it several times in the corner of a cloth; prepare in the same manner a table-spoonful of chopped-up parsley ; sprinkle the shallot and parsley in the pan, and mix well with the sauce. Simmer for five minutes longer. Lift the cutlets out of the pan and arrange them on a hot dish. Turn the gas full on, boil up the sauce and skim it, add a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, mix well without boil- ing again and pour the sauce over the cutlets. The bones and trimmings of the cutlets go to the stock- pot, or can be stewed separately for gravy. \ Spinach and Poached Eggs. Pick the stalks off two pounds of freshly-gathered spinach, and wash it in several waters until perfectly free from grit. Drain it and put it in a stewpan, pour over it enough boiling water to cover it; add a salt-spoonful of salt. Turn the gasThe Art of Cooking by Gas. 222 full on and boil for five minutes, keeping the spinach well under water with a wooden spoon. Drain it, wash it quickly in cold water, so that it does not discolour. If left to cool by itself it would turn yellow. Spread it on a board and look it carefully over to remove any little straw, twigs, etc., that might be left in undetected at the first washing. Gather it together again and chop it for five minutes; rub it through a wire sieve to make it smooth. The stewpan having been rinsed and wiped, melt in it an ounce of butter, and mix smoothly with it half an ounce of flour. Stir this over the gas three-quarter full on for three minutes, put in the spinach, being careful to scrape off that which adheres to the under part of the sieve. Add gradually a quarter of a pint of good gravy, a pinch of pepper and a little salt if necessary. Keep stirring the spinach briskly round so that it does not stick and burn. In five minutes turn out the gas, add an ounce of butter or a quarter of a pint of cream. Mix well and serve with poached eggs, as directed below, or with fried croutons cut to pretty shapes. Poached Eggs.—Put a quart of water in a rather shallow stewpan with a wine-glassful of French vinegar and a tea- spoonful of salt. Set this over the gas turned three-quarter full on and bring to boiling point. Break six fresh eggs, one by one in the water, holding them just above the water to drop them, as if they fall from a height they may break. Keep them well apart from each other. Cover the stewpan, and let the water boil again. In four or five minutes at the most the eggs will be set and done. Lift them out with a slice, trim the white a good round shape with a knife or a plain pastry cutter. Sprinkle a pinch of salt and one of pepper on the top, arrange them on the spinach, and serve at once. If an egg-poacher is used, the water must be boiling with the poacher in it, before the eggs are, put in.L UNC H EONS—No VEMBER. 223 Victoria Sandwiches. Take four eggs, half a pound of fresh butter, half a pound of fine sifted flour, and half a pound of castor sugar. Beat the butter to a cream with a wooden spoon in a basin, gradually add the flour, the sugar, and a pinch of salt. Whisk the eggs briskly in a separate basin, add them gradually, and beat all together for ten minutes. Pour the mixture in a baking-tin or two, making it about a quarter of an inch thick. Light the gas in the oven of the kitchener for ten minutes, put in the tins, reduce the gas to three-quarter full on, and bake for twenty minutes. Turn the pastry out, let it cool. Spread on half of it a layer of any jam free from stones, and warmed to make it spread more easily. Put the other half of the pastry over, and divide it in pieces about three inches long by one and a half wide. These can be either sprinkled with a little castor sugar or covered with icing sugar, and put in the warm oven to set, or even glazed with icing. If icing is used (see page 80), it should be coloured according to the jam in the sandwiches, pink if the jam is strawberry or raspberry, or a delicate green for greengage jam. Keep the sandwiches on a pastry-rack in a warm place until the icing is set. Arrange them standing round a dish, each overlapping the other. These are useful also for cold suppers or five o’clock tea. Prepare two quarts of mussels as in the recipe for sole normande (see page 219), doing one quart at a time, for if all are put in at once they will be too much piled up to cook evenly. As they open and are done, take them out NOVEMBER. Mussels a la Mariniere. Civet of Hare. Fried Salsifis. Pears in Syrup. Moules a la Mariniere. Civet de Li6vre. Salsifis Frits. Compote de Poires. Mussels a la Mariniere.224 The Art of Cooking by Gas. one by one, and remove one of the shells. Put the mussels in a deep dish in the oven to keep warm. Cook the second quart in the same manner. The mussels being all done, strain the liquor, rinse and wipe the stewpan. Melt in it an ounce of butter, add two shallots finely chopped, washed and squeezed in a cloth several times ; fry these for three minutes, put in an ounce of flour, and mix smoothly, add the liquor of the mussels and, if not sufficient, a little boiling water or light fish stock so as to make up three-quarters of a pint. Boil for five minutes, and skim, add a table-spoonful of finely chopped-up parsley: Pile up the mussels on a very hot and rather deep dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Civet of Hare. If the hare is young and small, the whole of it may be cut up for this dish, but if it is large, take only the fore-part of it, and reserve the hind-part for larding and roasting. This will give more variety to the fare. In either case divide the meat in neat pieces about the size of an egg, taking care that no broken or sharp bones remain in, and saving the blood as much as possible. Cut ten ounces of lean bacon, free from rind, into pieces about an inch square. Throw these in boiling water over the gas turned three-quarter full on, and boil them for five minutes, drain them thoroughly. Melt an ounce of butter in the stewpan, and put in the bacon; when it is a nice brown, take it out, keep it warm, and put in its place the pieces of hare, fry these a bright brown, turning them over to colour them evenly. They take about ten minutes. Sprinkle in an ounce and a half of Hour, mix well with a wooden spoon for two minutes, add three-quarters of a pint of good stock and half a pint of claret or port wine. Boil up for five minutes, skim, add the bacon, a bunch of herbs, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a salt- spoonful of pepper. Reduce the gas to half full on, cover the stewpan, and simmer for thirty minutes. Add twoL UNCHEONS—NO VEMBER. 225 dozen small onions prepared as for stewed rabbit (see page 217), and simmer until the onions are done (about twenty minutes more). In the meantime peel twenty-four button mushrooms and throw them in a pint of cold water, with a dessert-spoonful of French vinegar added to it. When they are all peeled, drain them, put them in boiling water with a pinch of salt, and boil them for five minutes, drain them again, add them to the sauce, simmer for five minutes longer. Take out the pieces of hare, pile them up in good order on a very hot dish, put the onions and mushrooms round with a spoon, and keep hot in the oven. Add the blood to the sauce, turn the gas full on, boil up, and skim, pour the sauce over the hare through a strainer, garnish with fried croutons, and serve. I have ventured to give this French version of a jugged hare instead of the usual recipe, as it seems to me that, done in this way, the hare keeps its flavour better than when it is stewed for long hours. I hardly like to say a word against such an old and favourite dish, but there is no disguising the fact that the best part of the jugged hare is the gravy, which is very rich and tasty, especially when made with port wine. I think, however, that it is quite possible to obtain, by the method I have given, an excellent gravy without reducing the meat to a tasteless pulp. When it is considered that the process to which jugged hare is usually submitted is exactly that followed in stewing down meat for stock and gravy, that is, simmering it for three, four, or five hours (authorities differ), it becomes obvious that, be the gravy ever so good, the meat itself cannot retain much flavour and nourishment. There is a point where perfection is reached, to go beyond that point is to spoil the meat for, as French cooks graphically say, it “ kills ” the flavour of it. Fried Salsifis or Scorzoneras. Cut off the heads and leaves of a bundle of salsifis • p226 The Art of Cooking by Gas. weighing about two pounds. Put in a basin two quarts of cold water, a tea-spoonful of salt, and a wine-glassful of vinegar. Scrape the black skin off the salsifis, cut them in three-inch lengths, .and throw them in the water to keep them white. Leave them in for an hour. Chop finely three ounces of beef suet, put it in a stewpan over the gas turned three-quarter full on, and melt it without discolouring ; add two quarts of water, two table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and a salt-spoonful of salt. Stir, and mix well together. Drain the salsifis and wipe them, put them in the stewpan. Cover them with the lid, put a little on one side so as to leave a small space of the pan uncovered, turn the gas to half full on. Simmer for three-quarters of an hour. Drain them well, and wipe them lightly in a cloth. Dip them in frying- batter (see page 50), and fry in hot fat. When they are all fried and drained on a hot cloth, pile them up on a dish, sprinkle a little fine salt over them, and put a bunch of fried parsley at the top. These are also very good for garnishing fish when smelt are not obtainable for frying. Stewed Pears with Pistachio Cream. If the pears are wanted white they should be stewed in an enamelled stewpan ; but they are more generally served coloured red, and can be then done in a block tin or tinned saucepan. Put a pint and a half of water in the pan with twelve ounces of loaf sugar, a little piece of cinnamon, and a few drops of carmine. Turn the gas three-quarter full on, and boil up the syrup, skim it. Pare thinly six sound pears, small enough not to have to be divided in halves, cut off the stalks and put the pears in the saucepan. There should be only just room to lift the pears conveniently in and out, and 'they should be covered with the syrup. Reduce the gas to half full on, and simmer until they are tender. No actual time can be given as pears vary according to their kind.L unch eons—December . 227 When they feel soft and yielding, they are done. Take them out and let them cool, turn the gas up under the saucepan, boil the syrup until reduced to barely half the quantity, skim it well, strain it, and put it aside to cool. The pears being cool, core them with an apple corer pushed in at the end opposite to the stalk, but not right through so as not to spoil the shape ; or, if more convenient, scoop the core out with a vegetable scoop. Fill the pears with pistachio cream made as below, and when ready to serve, stand them on a glass dish five round and one above in the middle, stick in each an inch of angelica to represent the stalk, pour the syrup over them, and serve at once. Pistachio Cream.—Put a quarter of a pound of pistachio nuts in a small saucepan of cold water, put over the gas turned three-quarter full on and boil up. Drain the pis- tachios, rub them in a cloth to remove the skins. Pick them out and pound them in a mortar with a little orange flower water. Turn them out in a basin, add to them a quarter of a pint of whipped cream, a table-spoonful of fine sifted sugar, and, if necessary, a few drops of sap green. Fill the cavity of the pears with this cream by the aid of a forcing-bag and plain pipe. If the pears used are too large for stewing whole, cut them in halves, and stew as above. Scoop out the core so as to make a round place in the middle of each half and squeeze the cream on this, through a rose pipe; this is very pretty. Arrange them round the dish, each half slightly overlapping the next. Pour the syrup in the middle, not on the pears. DECEMBER. Stewed Eels. Grilled Steak with Potatoes Sou- fflees. Nouilles h la Milanaise. Pine Apple Croustades. Anguilles h la Poulette. Bifteck aux Pommes Soufflees. Nouilles & la Milanaise. Crohtes ii 1’Ananas.228 The Art of Cooking by Gas. Stewed Eels. Skin and cleanse an eel weighing about two pounds, re- move the second skin as directed for fried eels (j^page 171). Trim off the side fins with scissors, and cut the fish in three-inch lengths. Put it in a stewpan with a quart of boiling water to which a table-spoonful of vinegar has been added, and boil it for five minutes. Drain it well. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan, and mix smoothly with it an ounce of flour, cook it without discolouring for five minutes over the gas turned three-quarter full on, add half a pint of good fish stock, and a quarter of a pint of French white wine, a bunch of herbs, two dozen small mushrooms prepared as for chicken fricassee (see page 212), a salt-spoon- ful of salt, and one of pepper. Boil this up and skim, put in the eel, bring to boiling-point again, reduce the gas to half full on, cover the pan and simmer the eel for half an hour. Take out the dish and the mushrooms ; arrange them neatly on a dish, and put it in the oven to keep warm. Strain the sauce, rinse and wipe the pan, return the sauce to it. Heat it with the gas three-quarter full on. Mix in a basin the yolk of an egg with a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice or vinegar. Skim the sauce, turn out the gas, and stir in the yolk of egg, and a table-spoonful of chopped-up parsley, well washed and squeezed to improve its colour. Pour the sauce over the eels, and serve with or without a garnish of fried croutons. The mushrooms can be omitted if not ob- tainable, and replaced by a tea-spoonful of ketchup; only this has the disadvantage of slightly colouring the sauce, which should be kept as white as practicable. Also note that if ketchup is used, no salt must be put in until after the ketchup is added, in case it should make the sauce too salt. Grilled Steak and Potatoes Soufilees. Prime steak can be cut from the rump, from the top of the ribs, or from the under-cut of the sirloin, and it is aL uncheons—December. 229 matter of individual taste as to which piece shall be used. Taking, for instance, three pounds of rump-steak an inch thick, trim off the skin and fat, and divide the meat in six neat pieces as nearly round or oval as practicable. The trimmings will not be wasted as they can be used for gravy ; but, of course, the steak must not be cut about any more than is absolutely necessary. Bat the pieces flat, pepper and salt them, and dip them on both sides in Lucca oil or dissolved butter. Light the gas in the griller for five minutes, wipe the pan and grid. Lay the pieces of steak on the grid and put them under the griller, turn them two or three times with the steak tongs while they are cooking, and, as soon as they feel firm when pressed between the tongs, they are done. Cut as directed above they will take fifteen to sixteen minutes. If cut from the top of the ribs, and an inch and a half thick twenty minutes will be re- quired. The fillets from the under-cut, cut three-quarters of an inch thick, will not take more than twelve minutes. While the steaks are cooking, prepare two ounces of fresh butter by mixing it with a table spoonful of parsley finely chopped up, well washed and squeezed in the corner of a cloth. The butter should be just soft enough to be worked easily; season it with a pinch of salt and one of pepper, and a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. Dish up the steaks on a very hot dish, and, dividing the butter in six parts, put a piece of it on each steak. Potatoes Soufflces.—Carefully scrub and wash a dozen long kidney potatoes, and peel them thinly. Divide them lengthwise in slices a quarter of an inch thick. Have the fat heated ready for frying and quite still (see page 46). Put in the potatoes, taking care they do not stick together, turn them about with a slice, and when they look a pale straw colour, take them out, put them in a colander or wire basket, over a dish to drain. Turn the gas full on under the pan for three minutes to make the fat very hot. Put in230 The Art of Cooking by Gas. the potatoes again, turn them about quickly, and as soon as they look puffy and golden, take them out, drain them on a hot cloth, sprinkle a little fine salt on them, arrange them in a thick wreath round the steaks, and serve at once. If a large quantity is required, it is best to fry it in batches the second time, as too many put in at a time would cool the fat too much. This very pretty and tasty garnish has long been thought to be a luxury only to be obtained in first-class Parisian houses, and indeed is seldom met with in perfection. Yet it is a very simple thing to manage, and any cook who will but grasp once for all the principle to be borne in mind, will be able by the aid of the sharp and steady heat of a well-regulated gas kitchener to produce potatoes soufflees with perfect ease and success. The principle is this, that air expands on being warmed, so that a certain quantity of it enclosed under the skin formed by the first frying, in such manner that it cannot escape, swells considerably on being thrown again in the very hot fat, and so puffs out the potatoes. That is why the potatoes being ready for the table must be served at once, while they are hot and crisp. By cooling, they become again soft and flattened, the air having come back to its original volume. Homlles a la Milanaise. These are a kind of home-made macaroni which will be found very useful when good macaroni is not obtainable, or even when a change is desired. They have the advantage of being freshly made, and can in all cases be dressed like macaroni. Sift half a pound of fine white flour, make a hole in the middle and put in three yolks of eggs and a pinch of salt. Warm half an ounce of butter to make it soft without melt- ing ; add it and work into a smooth paste. No water should be used unless absolutely necessary, as the paste is wanted231 L unci!eons—December. rather stiff. Divide it in three or four pieces for greater convenience, roll each piece out to an eighth of an inch thick, cut it in strips half an inch broad and three inches long ; rub a very little flour on each side of these to prevent them from sticking together. Put three pints of water in a stewpan, add a tea-spoonful of salt and a pinch of pepper. Turn the gas three-quarter full on and boil up, put in the nouilles, a few at a time, with the left hand, while stirring with a wooden spoon held in the other. When they have boiled for five minutes, turn them out in a strainer or colander, wash them in cold water, and lay them on a sieve to drain. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan, put in the nouilles, sprinkle in an ounce and a half of grated Parmesan or Gruyere; stir well, add a very little cayenne pepper, two table-spoonfuls of good gravy, and a quarter of a pound of cooked ham or tongue divided in small dice. Just warm through, pile up the nouilles on a hot dish, and pour a tomato sauce (see page 73) round them. Macaroni also can be dressed in the above fashion, and, on the other hand, nouilles can be served a la Napolitaine (see page 192) or au gratin, like macaroni (see page 101). Pine-Apple Croustades. Cut ten or twelve slices, half an inch thick, from a sponge-cake (see page 247) or a savarin (see page 77). Stamp them into rounds two and a half inches broad. Strew them thickly with icing-sugar, and put them on a baking-tin in the warm oven to set. Divide a fine preserved pine-apple in slices of the same thickness and size ; lay these in a deep dish, and reserve the parings for the sauce. Put the syrup in a saucepan with a table-spoonful of brandy and one of maraschino; boil up, skim, pour the syrup through a strainer over the pine-apple; let it stand for ten minutes in a warm place. Dish up, with one slice of pine-apple and one of cake alternately standing round the dish.232 The Art of Cooking by Gas. Pound the parings of the pine-apple with the same quantity of apricot marmalade. Rub this through a sieve and warm it in a small saucepan with the syrup, stir it smoothly and pour it in the middle of the dish. Serve at once. The cake can be replaced by pieces of bread cut out of a tin loaf, fried a golden brown, drained thoroughly,, and iced in the same manner as above. BREAKFASTS. For the preparation of the breakfasts given here, a griller, an oven, and four rings will be necessary. A kitchener of the Charing Cross type will best fulfil these conditions. For breakfasts, however, consisting of only one dish of grilled meat or fish, with eggs or omelets and toast, a smaller apparatus, such as the little Connaught Kitchener, and the two grillers will be amply sufficient. Tea. To make a quart of tea take a three-pint teapot, fill it with boiling water, and let it stand a few minutes to get thoroughly hot. Pour out the water and put in nine heaped tea-spoonfuls of tea (that is, about an ounce and a half), pour in a quart of boiling water, cover the teapot for three or four minutes-, and the tea is ready. The water used in making tea must not be kept boiling for any length of time, but the kettle having been filled with cold water and brought up to boiling-point over the gas turned full on, the water must be used as soon as it is boiling.Breakfasts. 233 Coffee. If the improved coffee-urn described on page 29 is in use, the coffee will be made as follows :—Pour a quart of cold water in the lower recipient and light the gas under it. Screw on the upper reservoir, and put in it four ounces of freshly-roasted coffee which has been ground whilst hot. Let the water boil up until it forces its way through the coffee and fills the reservoir. Stir gently with a spoon while it rises, and as soon as the reservoir is full turn down the gas quite low, continue stirring and the coffee will gradually be drawn back into the lower vessel by the vacuum thus created. When only the grounds remain in the upper cup, turn on the gas again and let the coffee come up a second time, stirring as before and taking care to turn the gas out as soon as the reservoir is full. Let it sink through again and the coffee is made. Unscrew the top reservoir and put it aside ; put on the loose cover. Stand a cup under the tap and pour out the coffee If more than one lot of coffee is required, the upper reservoir can be emptied and washed at once, the necessary quantity of freshly-ground coffee put in, and the operation repeated as many times as desired. If the coffee used is not freshly roasted, weigh the necessary quantity, put it in an iron ladle and warm it, taking care not to burn it, over the gas three-quarter full on, to develop the aroma, grind it whilst hot and use at once. Larger or smaller quantities can be made in the same manner,, always observing the proportions of two ounces of coffee to a pint of water. The usual size coffee- urn will hold two quarts of coffee. To make coffee in the French percolator, put the coffee, freshly roasted and ground as above, in the upper part, and pour boiling water slowly over it, a little at a time, until the requisite quantity is obtained, keeping the percolator in a warm place while the coffee runs through it. If the coffee is not served at the table in the same vessel, the coffee-potThe Art of Cooking by Gas. 234 should be thoroughly warmed by filling it with boiling water and letting it stand a few minutes, then draining it well before pouring the coffee in it. Coffee should be made only just before it is wanted, as, if allowed to stand for any length of time, it deteriorates and acquires a blackish hue, which is very unpleasant. Fig. 26. The proportions mentioned above, of two ounces of coffee to a pint of water, will be amply sufficient for good plantation coffee properly roasted. Other coffees must be tested to ascertain their strength. (See “Coffee Roaster,” page 26.) For coffee served after dinner use three ounces to each pint of water, and serve very hot in small cups with cream and sugar handed round. Chocolate. Break one ounce of good chocolate in small pieces and put these in an enamelled saucepan with two table-spoonfuls of cold milk, turn the gas three-quarter full on under the235 Breakfasts. saucepan and melt the chocolate, stirring it with a wooden spoon until quite smooth ; measure half a pint of milk, pour it in, and stir until nearly boiling, then reduce the gas to half full on, and simmer for twenty minutes. Heat the chocolate-pot by filling it with boiling water, let it stand for a few minutes, empty and drain it, pour the chocolate in through a strainer. This will be sufficient for a breakfast- cupful. If a chocolate-mill (see Fig. 26) is used, put it in with the handle coming through the hole made in the lid /or that purpose, and rub the handle briskly backward and forward between the hands for a minute. Remove the mill, and send the chocolate up at once. If really good chocolate is used, and made in the above manner, it will .be beautifully creamy without being too thick. It is only the inferior qualities of chocolate which get starchy ; these should be avoided as they are indigestible and contain but little nourishment. Cocoa. Cocoa supplies a convenient beverage for those people who are advised not to drink tea or coffee, and who require a more fluid drink than chocolate. So many excellent kinds are now prepared ready for use that it is hardly worth any- one’s while to go through the lengthy process of preparing the cocoa from the nibs. Of the prepared cocoas, the average quantity to use is two tea-spoonfuls to a half-pint breakfast-cup. Put the cocoa in the cup and mix it smoothly with two table-spoonfuls of cold milk, and fill the cup with boiling milk. Or mix the cocoa and cold milk as directed above in an enamelled saucepan, add the boiling milk, just boil up over the gas turned three-quarter full on, and pour the cocoa in a chocolate-pot or jug through a strainer. Oatmeal Porridge. Put a saucepan with a quart of water in it on the gas turned three-quarter full on, add a little salt, a salt-spoonful236 The Ary of Cooking by Gas. only if the oatmeal is to be eaten sweet, and a tea-spoonful if it is to remain unsweetened. When the water is nearly boiling, stir in quickly a pint of oatmeal, sifting it in through the fingers of the left hand while stirring with a wooden spoon. When all the oatmeal is in, and quite smooth, reduce the gas to half-full on, and simmer for half an hour, stirring occasionally, and adding a little hot water if neces- sary. Turn the porridge out on hot plates, and eat with milk or cream and salt, sugar or treacle according to taste. Hominy. This makes a very agreeable change from oatmeal for children’s breakfasts, and should be prepared as follows : — Put half a pound of hominy in a basin overnight and pour on it a quart of boiling water, cover the basin and leave it until the morning. The hominy will then have absorbed all the water. Put it in a saucepan with another quart of water and a pinch of salt, turn the gas three-quarter full on under the saucepan, and stir until nearly boiling; reduce the gas to half full on, simmer for half an hour, stirring occasionally, add a quarter of a pound of sugar, mix well, turn out on hot plates, and eat with milk or cream. Plain Toast. Cut slices three-eighths of an inch thick from a tin loaf; trim off all the crust neatly so as to make the pieces of bread square. Light the gas in the griller, wipe the grid, and lay the pieces of bread on it. Toast them for two and a half minutes on one side, turn them over, and toast the other side for the same time. Divide each square across in two three-cornered pieces, put these in the toast-rack, and serve as soon as practicable. Half-cold toast, which has lost its crispness by waiting, is not palatable. Buttered Toast. Cut and toast the bread as above, butter it quickly as soon as it is done, taking care not to press too much on itBreakfasts—Januar y. 237 so as to keep light; cut each slice as it is buttered in four quarters. Pile up in a hot dish and serve at once. It is a mistake to pile up the slices before cutting through them, it makes the butter run down from one to another until it reaches the dish, where it looks oily and unsightly. It is as well to mention that the practice of holding a piece of toast over a basin of boiling water before buttering it, is most detrimental, and should never be resorted to; it makes the toast heavy and sodden, and takes from it that very crispness which is its chief attraction. Crumpets. Toast these in the griller for two minutes and a half on each side, butter them, and cut them across in halves as soon as they are buttered. Do not wait until they are all done and piled up before cutting through them or they will be heavy, and the butter will run down in the dish. Serve very hot, piled up on a hot-water dish. Muffins. Draw the point of a knife all round the muffins so as to divide the two edges, but without cutting right through ; toast them in the griller three minutes on each side. Pull them apart, butter the inside of each half, put them together again, cut them across in halves, and pile up on a hot-water dish. Serve at once. SEASONABLE BREAKFAST DISHES. JANUARY. Kedgeree of Haddock. Kedgeree d'Eglefin. Brawn. Fromage de Cochon. Omelet with Herbs. Omelette aux fines Herbes. Kedgeree of Haddock. Wash, scale, apd cleanse thoroughly a fresh haddock weighing about a pound and a half, wipe the inside of the238 The Art of Cooking by Gas. fish, and remove the eyes. Put in the fish-kettle two quarts of water, a table-spoonful of vinegar, and a dessert-spoonful of salt. Set this over the gas turned three-quarter full on and boil up, put in the fish on the strainer, make sure the water covers it, boil up again, skim, reduce the gas to half full on, and simmer for fifteen minutes. When the fish is cooked lift it out carefully, drain it, and put it on a dish to cool. This is best done overnight. Wash a quarter of a pound of Patna rice, boil and dry it as for curry (see page 124), separate all the meat from the bones of the fish, taking care that no small bones be left in. Put the bones and trimmings in a small saucepan with half a pint of milk, to simmer over the gas turned half full on, for twenty minutes, strain the milk. Divide the fish in small pieces with two forks. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan over the gas turned three- quarter full on ; add the milk, a quarter of a pint of cream, a pinch of salt, one of nutmeg, a very little cayenne pepper, mix smoothly, and boil up. Stir in the fish gradually, then the rice, and when well mixed turn the gas out, add two yolks of eggs which have been lightly beaten with a very little salt. Mix well, pile on a hot dish, and ornament with fried croutons cut to pretty shapes. » Erawn. Split open a pig’s head, take out the brains and eyes and throw them away; cut off the ears, wash them and the head thoroughly in and out, wipe quite dry. Pound together a pound of salt, two ounces of saltpetre, six ounces of Dem- erara sugar, thirty peppercorns, a bay-leaf, two blades of mace, a salt-spoonful of dried sage, one of thyme, a table- spoonful of chopped-up parsley, a tea-spoonful of chopped- up shallot, and four cloves. These being well pounded together, rub them through a sieve into a pan. Rub the head and the ears well with the mixture, and leave them in239 Brea kfa s ts—Janua r y. this dry pickle for three or four days, according to the warmth of the weather. Turn them daily, rubbing well with the pickle each time for a few minutes. When ready to boil the head, put over the gas turned three-quarter full on a braising-pan or other large vessel with three quarts of water in it. Add half a pint of white wine or a quarter of a pint of sherry or Madeira, two onions and two carrots peeled and quartered, a bunch of herbs, and four cloves. Boil up and skim. Wipe the head thoroughly. Put it in the braising-pan, the two halves side by side, add the ears, see that the water covers all. Bring up again to boiling- point, skim carefully, reduce the gas to half full on, and simmer until tender; a small head will take rather less than five hours, a large one nearly six. When the meat comes away readily from the bones, and the skin is quite soft and yielding under the finger, the head is done. Skim again, take the head out and bone it entirely, taking the utmost care not to leave any broken bones in the meat. Cut it all up in small pieces. Skin the tongue, and cut it up in the same manner. Divide the ears in narrow strips. Put all these ready on a dish. Put all the bones back in the liquor, and turn the gas three-quarter full on under the braising- pan, boil without a cover for half an hour to reduce the liquor. Arrange all the meat in layers in a plain round mould, sprinkling between each layer a little pepper and salt and a very little nutmeg. Pour in about half a pint of the reduced liquor. Put on the top a small flat plate or a piece of tin fitting the inside of the mould, and put a weight over it. Put the brawn away to cool, and when quite cold turn it out on a cold dish, and garnish with sprigs of fresh green parsley. Omelet with Herbs. Break six eggs in a basin, add to them a salt-spoonful of salt, one of pepper, a dessert-spoonful of finely chopped-up parsley and, if liked, a very little finely chopped-up chive.The Art of Cooking by Gas. 240 Whisk all these together for a minute, not longer. Melt a small piece of fat in the omelet-pan over the gas turned three-quarter full on, and proceed as directed for omelet with shrimps (see page 90). When the omelet is set and has acquired a pretty brown colour underneath, fold it over and slip it on to a very hot dish. Serve either plain or with a tomato sauce (see page 73), poured round it. The true Provengale Brandade is made of salt fish which has been well soaked for a day. It is then boiled for five minutes to loosen the skin and bones, and these being re- moved, the fish is broken in small flakes and put in a saucepan, Lucca oil being gradually added to it, and the fish worked with a wooden spoon until quite creamy-looking. Cream is then added in proportion of half a pint to a pound of fish, and lastly, a bead of garlic very finely chopped up, and a little cayenne pepper. This, however great a delicacy it is considered in the South, may not be relished by every- body, especially the garlic, the taste of which is apt to cling to the palate with deplorable tenacity. An excellent bran- dade may be made in the following manner, and will be found both palatable and useful for warming up cold fish. Take what is left of a piece of boiled cod, say a pound and a half of fish ; pick it carefully from the skin and bones, and divide it in small flakes with two forks. Melt an ounce of butter in a ,stewpan over the gas turned three-quarter full on, put in the fish and stir with a wooden spoon, gradu- ally adding two more ounces of butter in little pieces, until the fish is quite reduced to a smooth paste. Turn out the FEBRUARY. Brandade. Calf’s Liver,and Bacon. Boiled Eggs. Brandade. Foie de Veau au Jambon. CEufs a la Coque. Brandade.241 Br ea kfa sts—February. gas, add a quarter of a pint of cream, half a shallot very finely chopped, washed and squeezed in the corner of a cloth, a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, a very little cayenne pepper. Taste to ascertain if the anchovy sauce has made the fish salt enough, and if not, add a little salt. Stir well together, pile up on a very hot dish, and garnish with fried croutons. Any kind of white fish will be suitable for this dish. The fish ought to be of a delicate salmon pink colour. If the anchovy sauce does not produce a good colour, add a little lobster butter (see page 84), or a very few drops of carmine. Calf’s Liver and Bacon. Cut three-quarters of a pound of fresh calf’s liver in neat slices a quartet; of an inch thick. Cut the same weight of rather lean bacon, so as to have the same number of slices. Fry the bacon over the gas turned three-quarter full on, turning it once or twice so that it is evenly cooked, it will take about five minutes ; put it on a hot dish in the oven or under the griller to keep it hot and prevent it from losing its crispness. Pepper and salt the slices of liver and dredge them with a little flour on both sides, fry them in the bacon fat five minutes on each side. Dish them standing round a hot dish, one slice of liver and one of bacon alternately, sprinkle a little finely chopped-up parsley over, and serve with an Italienne sauce (see page 144), either poured in the dish or sent up in a tureen. Boiled Eggs. To boil six.eggs. Choose new-laid eggs; other prepar- ations of eggs may be made from eggs which have been laid a few days, but for boiled eggs, absolute freshness is im- perative. Put three pints of water in a saucepan over the gas turned three-quarter full on. Boil up, and put in the eggs; cover the pan and boil for one minute only, turn out QThe Art of Cooking by Gas. 242 the gas, leave the eggs in the water for five minutes; lift out and wipe them, and serve at once. Care must be taken that the eggs are put in plenty of water, as above, or the water will lose its heat too rapidly and the eggs will be underdone. MARCH. • » Split Mackerel Grilled. Maquereau Grille. Spiced Beef. Bceuf (Spice. Eggs en Miroir. CEufs en Miroir. , Split Mackerel Grilled. Wash the mackerel thoroughly in salt and water, and trim off the fins. Split it open down the back, clean out the inside. Wipe the fish quite dry. Light the gas in the griller for three minutes, wipe the grid and pan, and rub a little butter on the grid. Lay the fish on it, skin down- wards, so that the inside of the fish, which is opened out flat, is exposed to the heat. Sprinkle a pinch of salt and one of pepper on the fish, and pour on it an ounce of butter which has been just warmed. Grill for twelve minutes with the gas three-quarter full on. Lift it on to a very hot dish, and put on it half an ounce of maitre d’hotel butter (see page 165). Spiced Beef. Choose a piece ot the thin flank of beef, rather freshly killed, and weighing about eight pounds. Skin and bone it carefully. Pound together two pounds of salt, a pound of Demerara sugar, two ounces of bay salt, and* two ounces of saltpetre, a salt-spoonful of powdered mace, a tea-spoon- ful of powdered thyme, twelve peppercorns, ten allspice, six cloves, six bay-leaves, one small ground nutmeg, and four shallots finely chopped up. These being well pounded and mixed together, rub them through a wire sieve into a pan. Rub the meat all over with it, and leave it in this dry pickle for ten days, turning it every day, and rubbing all over again243 Brea icfasts—Ma r ch. with the pickle for a few minutes every time. When ready to cook it, lift it out of the pickle, rinse it well with warm water, wipe it, and roll it, roly-poly fashion, to the shape of a thick sausage. Butter a piece, of muslin or thin cloth and wrap the beef in it; tie it tightly at both ends, and wind the tape two or three times round it to keep it in shape ; this, however, must not be done tightly, or the tape will leave marks on the meat. Chop finely two ounces of beef suet, free from skin and gristle, melt it in a large stewpan or braising-pan over the gas turned three-quarter full on. Clean and slice two onions, two carrots, one turnip, two shallots, one small head of celery, put these in the braising- pan. Add a bunch of herbs (parsley, thyme, marjoram, basil, and a bay-leaf), twenty peppercorns, and no salt. Fry all these for five minutes, put in the meat, cover it and fry it with the vegetables for twenty minutes, turning it two or three times to get evenly done. Add three quarts of light stock, and half a pint of French white wine, or a quar- ter of a pint of sherry or Madeira ; the liquor must cover the meat. Bring up to boiling-point, skim, reduce the gas to half full on, and simmer very gently for five hours, skim- ming from time to time. Take the meat up and put it in a deep dish or basin; strain the liquor over it. Put a plate or a small dish on the meat, and a heavy weight over the dish, and leave the meat to get cold, say, until the next morning; lift it out, remove the tape and cloth. Glaze the meat all over (see Glaze, page 59), and, when dry, put it on a cold dish, ornament the top of it with blocks of aspic jelly made as directed on page 70, with three ounces of gelatine to the quart, so that it cuts very firmly. Chop up the trimmings of the jelly, put it round the beef and serve. One quart of aspic jelly will be sufficient; the jelly when made should be run on to a baking-tin to a depth of half an inch and put in a cold place until firmly set, it can then be divided into blocks with a sharp knife, and the blocks244 The Art of Cooking by Gas. lifted off. If the tin is held just a moment over a saucepan of boiling water, the jelly will come off more readily. This, however, must be done with precaution so as not to melt the jelly, but only to detach it. The liquor the beef was boiled in will be useful stock for vegetable soup. Eggs en Miroir. Several of these eggs can be cooked on the same dish, but it is far preferable to have small fire-proof porcelain dishes, each just large enough for one egg, say four inches across and an inch deep. Put a piece of butter, the size of a hazel-nut, in each dish, melt it under the griller, break a fresh egg in each dish, dropping the yolk well in the middle without breaking it. Put a pinch of pepper and one of salt on each egg, and put them under the griller in the place of the grid and pan. In four minutes the white will be quite set and opaque. Serve at once. If several eggs are done on one dish, take care to space them evenly. If liked, a slice of bacon can be fried first in the dish, taking care to turn it so that it cooks on both sides evenly. Break the egg over it and finish cooking as above. APRIL. Fried Plaice. Plie Frite. Veal and Ham Pie. Pattf de Veau et Jambon. Eggs a la Tripe. CEufs a la Tripe. Fried Plaice. Choose a fine fresh plaice ; skin, wash, and cleanse it carefully. Lay it on the table, and, with a sharp knife, make an incision along the backbone from head to tail; then, holding the knife in a slanting position, slip it along between the bone and the flesh; make an incision all round the outer edge, to detach the fillet from the side fins, and lift it off. Proceed in the same manner for the three other fillets. Bat them with a knife dipped in water, and divideBreakfasts—April. 245 each in three or four pieces according to size; these can be either cut in neat squares or stamped round or cutlet shape with a pastry-cutter. Dry them and pass lightly in flour, to which a little pepper and salt has been added. Cover them with egg and bread-crumbs and fry them in hot fat. Drain them thoroughly on a hot cloth; arrange them standing round a dish, each one overlapping the next, and fill the centre with fried parsley. Serve with a quartered lemon and cayenne pepper. If melted butter is served with these put the bones and trimmings of the fish to simmer in half a pint of milk over the gas half full on for twenty minutes, strain the milk and use it for making the melted butter (see page 115). Anchovy sauce and ravigote sauce are also excellent with this dish. Veal ancl Ham Pie. Take two pounds of lean veal and two pounds of lean ham. Remove all skin and gristle from the veal, and taking one pound of the meat thus trimmed, lard it on both sides with fat bacon cut in fine lardons (see page 144). Divide it in pieces about an inch and a half square. Melt one ounce of butter in a stewpan over the gas turned three- quarter full on, put the pieces of veal in and fry them for six minutes, turning them over to brown both sides; take them out and put them aside for use. Trim the ham free from rind and fat, and cut it in slices a quarter of an inch thick; divide it in pieces like the veal. Throw these in boiling water and boil them for five minutes, drain them and set them aside. Take all that is left of the veal, add to it half a pound of rather fat bacon, and pass it through a sausage-machine; then pound it well together, season with a tea-spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of black pepper, a sprig of thyrne, half a bay-leaf, a salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg, and a pinch of powdered mace. It is best to pound these ingredients together first, and add them gradually to the246 The Art of Cooking by Gas. farce while pounding it. The farce being quite smooth, divide it in four parts. Spread one at the bottom of a pie- dish, put over it a layer of ham, one of farce, and the veal. Sprinkle over it a dessert-spoonful of the spices mixed as above, put over it another layer of forcemeat, one of ham, and finish with forcemeat. Pour in half a pint of good gravy. Make the pastry as for raised pies (see page 137). Cut a strip of it and line the edge of the dish, brush it over with a little water; roll out the rest of the pastry, cover the dish with it and cut it off all round rather under the edge of the dish. Press the edges firmly together; make a small hole in the middle of the crust. Brush the pie all over with beaten yolk of egg. Light the gas in the oven of the kitchener for fifteen minutes, put in the pie, reduce the gas to half full on, and bake for forty-five minutes, taking care the crust does not colour too much before the pie is done. When the pie is baked, leave it to cool for half an hour, pour in it, through the hole at the top, a gravy made as below. Put it away until quite cold, garnish with a sprig of parsley at the top and serve. Gravy for Veal and Ham Pie.—Bone a calf’s foot and cut it in pieces a couple of inches square, add it to the bones and trimmings of the veal and the rind, well washed and scraped, of the ham. Put these in a stewpan with a quart of light stock, an onion stuck with two cloves, a bunch of herbs, a salt-spoonful of salt and one of pepper. Turn the gas three-quarter full on under the stewpan, boil up and skim, reduce the gas to half full on and simmer for two hours, take the fat off, tammy the gravy and pour it in the pie when only just warm. The calf’s foot can be eaten with vinaigrette sauce, or be fried in batter as directed for calf’s head (see page 195). Eggs h la Tripe. Put six eggs in boiling water and boil them for ten minutes, not more. Take thefn out and put them in cold247 Brea k fasts—Ma v. water, leave them in until cold; shell and wipe them. Peel some rather small onions, enough to have hall an ounce of them, slice them, throw them in boiling water and boil them for five minutes ; drain them. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan, over the gas turned three-quarter full on, add the onions and fry them a bright brown. Pour in half a pint of bechamel sauce (see page 251), stir smoothly together, slice the eggs thinly with a knife dipped in hot water, re- serving the yolk of one egg. Mix the eggs well with the sauce, taste to ascertain if any pepper or salt is wanted, then turn out the contents of the stewpan on a hot dish which will stand fire, sprinkle a dessert-spoonful of brown bread- crumbs on the top and put the dish under the griller for ten minutes. Rub the yolk of egg through a sieve and sprinkle it over the dish; do the same with a dessert-spoonful of finely chopped-up parsley and serve at once. When a salmon, or piece of salmon, has been served for dinner, pick carefully from the bones all the fish that is left, chop it up quite small, and having about a pound and a half of fish, put the bones and trimmings in half a pint of milk over the gas turned three-quarter full on, simmer for twenty minutes and strain. Proceed as for lobster croquettes (see page 208). If the fish is not of a very good colour, add a very little coral butter (see page 84), or, failing this, a few drops of carmine; but, of course, the salmon having a colour of its own does not want so much colouring as lobster, which is white. The colour of the fish and sauce together should not be deeper than that of the fish alone. Having prepared MAY. Croquettes of Salmon. Broiled Kidneys. Potted Ham. Plovers’ Eggs. Croquettes de Saumon. Rognons a la Brochette. Terrine de Jambon. CEufs de Pluvier. Croquettes of Salmon.248 The Art of Cooking by Gas. the fish overnight and covered it with a piece of buttered paper, it will be ready for use the next morning. Shape it into cutlets, corks, or balls, flour these lightly, egg and bread-crumb them, fry in hot fat and drain thoroughly. Serve on a hot dish and garnish with fried parsley and sliced lemon. Bi’oiled Kidneys. Choose six very fresh mutton kidneys and put them in cold water for five minutes. Wipe them, skin them care- Fig. 27. fully, cut them open lengthwise from the side opposite to the core, open them out flat, and pass a skewer through the core to keep them open. (See Fig. 27.) Season them on both sides with pepper and salt; dip them in dissolved butter. Light the gas for three minutes in the griller, wipe the grid and pan, rub a little butter on the bars, lay the kidneys on the grid and grill them for three minutes on each side. Remove the skewers, and, if possible, replace them by small silver or plated skewers, heated by plunging them in boiling water and wiping them dry. Dish them on a hot dish the open side uppermost, put on each kidney a tea-spoonful of very good gravy, vhich has been boiled down almost to a glaze, and over this lay a piece of maitre d’hotel butter (see page 165) the size of a small walnut. Serve hot. If pre- ferred, the kidneys can be rolled in bread-crumbs after theyBreakfasts—Ma y. 249 have been dipped in the butter; they are then grilled and finished as above. Potted Ham. Pick all the meat left on a ham which no longer pre- sents good enough an appearance to be sent to the table or the sideboard; carefully remove all skin and gristle, and separate the fat from the lean. Weigh the lean, and sup- posing a pound of it is obtained, add to it a quarter of a pound of fat. If there is not enough fat, add a little butter to make up the requisite quantity. Pass the lean and fat together through a mincing-machine, then pound them thoroughly in a mortar, adding gradually a salt-spoonful of cayenne pepper and a tea-spoonful of powdered mace. When quite smooth, put it in small china jars, press it well down, and .cover it with an eighth of an inch of clarified butter. To Clarify Butter.—Dissolve it in a small saucepan over the gas turned three-quarter full on, and as it boils up, remove the scum which rises; when this is all taken off, and the butter looks clear, turn out the gas, let the butter stand for a’minute or two, and pour it off carefully so as not to disturb the sediment which may fall at the bottom. Tongue can be potted in the same manner as ham. Chicken, turkey, and game, can be treated similarly, but ham, tongue, or bacon, must be added to them. The proportions are—for ope pound, half a pound of fowl or game, a quarter of a pound of lean cooked ham, bacon, or tongue, a quarter of a pound of fat or butter. Work and season as above, adding a very little salt if necessary. Plovers’ Eggs. Put six fresh plovers’ eggs in boiling water, and boil them for eight minutes, take them out, and put them in cold water. When quite cold, arrange them neatly in a little moss basket, and serve.25° The Art of Cooking by Gas. Or when they are boiled, shell them quite hot, stand each egg upright on a croustade prepared as directed on page 50 ; put these on a hot dish, pour over them a Madeira or Perigueux sauce, and serve hot. Thus prepared the eggs are also suitable for luncheon or dinner. This delicious fish is but little known inland, and I can only suppose that its very delicacy prevents it from travel- ling safely, for at seaside places it is often exceedingly plentiful. I can say from personal experience that pout caught in the afternoon and eaten at dinner is far more tasty than if they are kept until the next morning, even in a cool place. When eaten quite fresh they are much more delicate than the whiting, and the flesh is of a beautiful pearly white. The fish should be cleaned as soon as prac- ticable after they are caught, and if possible washed in sea water. Skin and wipe them, flour them lightly, brush them with beaten egg, and cover them with bread-crumbs, fry in hot fat. Drain thoroughly on a hot cloth, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot at once with quartered lemons. Melted butter or ravigote sauce may be sent up with these. They are also excellent au gratin (see “Sole au Gratin,” page 143 ) or filleted and fried like the ordinary whiting. I may here remark that whole whiting are very usually fried with the tail passed through the eye-holes. I cannot think this a good plan, and have already recommended to fillet them (see page 184), for when a whole one is served to each person the quantity of bones, etc., left on the plate JUNE. Fried Whiting Pout. Chicken Bechamel. Scrambled Eggs with Peas. Merlans Frits. Poulet 4 la Bechamel. CEufs Brouillds aux Petits Pois. Fried Whiting Pont251 Brea kea s ts—June. after the fish is eaten is, to say the least of it, unsightly. Besides, the fish is apt to be unevenly cooked, the outer part of it being so much more exposed to the hot fat than the inner side, which is curled on itself. It is'very prefer- able, if the fish are fried whole, to fry them straight and dish them side by side. The carver can then slip the fish-carver along the backbone and lift off half the fish at once, so that each person need only have to deal with a few stray bones instead of with a complete specimen of ichthyological osteology. Chicken Bechamel. Cut off all the meat left on a cold fowl or pair of fowls, and divide it in very small pieces. Have about a pound of this. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan over the gas turned three-quarter full on, and mix smoothly with it an ounce of flour, fry for three minutes without discolouring, add three-quarters of a pint of well-flavoured white stock, and stir until the sauce boils, skim it, add a quarter of a pint of cream, pepper and salt if necessary, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Put in the chicken, and stir gently over the gas half full on, to warm through. It can then be served piled up on a hot dish and ornamented with fried croutons, but it also looks very pretty if put in silver or plated shells, allowing one shell to each person. A little finely-chopped parsley or a pinch of lobster coral can be sprinkled on the top. This is useful as a luncheon dish, and also to fill a vol au vent (see page 194). Scrambled Eggs with Peas. Prepare the eggs as directed on page 1S8. Melt half an ounce of butter in a stewpan, add half a pint of plainly boiled peas-(^<? page 75), sprinkle in a tea-spoonful of flour, a pinch of salt, one of pepper, and one of castor sugar. Mix well for five minutes, add the peas to the eggs, stirring them well in, and serve garnished with fried croutons.The Art of Cookiwg by Gas. 252 JULY. Fresh Herrings. Mustard Sauce. Harengs Frais. Sauce Moutarde. Pigeon Pie. Patd de Pigeons. Eggs & la Bonne Femme. CEufs h. la Bonne Femme. Fresh Herrings. (Mustard Sauce.) Cleanse and wash very carefully six very fresh herrings, dry them, score them across on both sides, cutting slanting slits half an inch apart. Pepper and salt the fish on both sides, and lay them for half an hour in a deep dish with a quarter of a pint of Lucca oil; turn them over two or three times. Light the gas in the griller for three minutes, wipe the pan and grid. Put the herrings in, and grill them for five or six minutes on each side, according to size. Lay them on a very hot dish, and send up mustard sauce in a boat with them. Mustard Sauce.—Make half a pint of melted butter (see page xi 5), and mix smoothly with it a dessert-spoonful of freshly-made mustard, a very little cayenne pepper, and, if available, three table-spoonfuls of cream. Stir smoothly, and serve at once. Pigeon Pie. Pick and draw three young pigeons, reserving the liver. Cut the birds neatly in four pieces each, dividing them first lengthwise, then across between the wing and leg. Bat well a pound of rump-steak, free from skin and fat, and cut it in pieces an inch and a half square. Season both the steak and the pigeons with a little pepper and salt. Mince finely a quarter of a pound of steak and a quarter of a pound of bacon ; add a quarter of a pound of bread-crumb soaked in a little gravy, season with a salt-spoonful of pepper, one of salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan over the gas turned three-quarter full on. Chop finely a tea-spoonful of parsley, one of thyme, and half a253 Brea kfa s ts—/ul v. shallot, sprinkle these in the butter, and fry the pieces of pigeon in it to a light brown, turning them so that they may colour evenly; take them out, and drain them. Fry the steak in the same manner, adding a little more butter if necessary. Arrange the pieces of steak at the bottom of a pie-dish, and put the pieces of pigeon over, divide the force- meat in small balls and put these amongst the pieces of pigeons, put a small bay-leaf on the top, and pour in about half a pint of stock; the dish should not be filled to the brim or the crust will be sodden. Line the edge of the dish with a strip of pastry, brush this with water; roll out the rest of the pastry and cover the pie with it, cut it off neatly all round, press the edges well together and ornament them with a knife or pastry-cutter, make a small hole in the middle. Glaze all over with yolk of egg beaten with a little water. Light the gas in the oven of the Charing Cross kitchener for ten minutes, put in the pie, reduce the gas to three-quarter full on, and bake for forty-five minutes. When the pie is done, take it out, let it cool for a quarter of an hour, then pour in through the hole at the top about half a pint of gravy and put away the pie until quite cold. Veal gravy is the best to use for pies, as, being gelatinous, it sets readily to a jelly; but if beef gravy is used, it is best to add to it a very small quantity of gelatine, say an eighth of an ounce to the pint. Mushrooms can also be added to the pie, having been prepared as directed on page 212, and also hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters. The pastry used can be puff paste, short crust, or the pastry given on page 137 for raised pies, according to taste. Eggs & la Bonne Femme. Boil six eggs for ten minutes. Put them in cold water, and when quite cold shell them. Divide them in halves, and cut a little piece off the tip of each, so that they may stand upright like little cups. Cut up in small dice the254 The Art of Cooking by Gas. yolks of the eggs, and the same quantity of cold ham or tongue and chicken, a gherkin, and two or three slices of beetroot. Make half a pint of very stiff mayonnaise sauce (see page 97). Wash, dry, and break small a young crisp lettuce. Fill the eggs with the meat, etc., rather piled up, smooth it with a knife, and cover it neatly with mayonnaise. The sauce must be stiff enough not to run, but remain smoothly on the meat. Drop a little star of beetroot or gherkin on the top of each. Sprinkle a salt-spoonful of salt, a pinch of pepper, a tea-spoonful of vinegar, and a table-spoonful of oil over the salad, turn it quickly in the seasoning. Drain it, pile it on a dish, and spread the mayonnaise over it. Arrange the eggs round, reserving one for the top and orna- ment with gherkin and beetroot, sliced and stamped to pretty shapes. The eggs can be also filled with other cold meats, or with fish, salmon being especially suitable. This dish is useful for a cold luncheon or supper. It disposes conveniently of small quantities, which would not be sufficient for more important dishes, such as mayonnaise or chaudfroid. AUGUST. Sole Colbert. Sole Colbert. Galantine, Galantine. Eggs in Cases. CEufs en Caisses. I Sole Colbert. Cleanse a fine fresh sole, remove the black skin, and scrape carefully the white one ; wash thoroughly and wipe. Make an incision along the backbone from head to tail on the side from which the skin has been removed, and break the bone with the handle of the knife, close to the head and close to the tail. Flour the fish lightly, cover it with egg and bread-crumbs, and fry it in hot fat, turning it well over in the pan to brown it evenly. Drain it thoroughly on a255 Brea kfasts—A ucust. hot cloth. Remove the bone and put in its place two ounces of maitre d’hotel butter (see page 165). Put the fish on a very hot dish, and garnish with fried parsley and sliced lemon. Send up with it a lemon cut in halves. An oval silver or plated dish looks best to serve the sole on. Galantine. Bone a fine young fowl. The simplest way to do this is to split the bird open down the back, and, with a small sharp knife, cut out all the bones from the inside, not for- getting to remove the sinews from the legs, and taking care not to break through the skin. The best way, however, is to bone the fowl from the neck without cutting the skin at all. This is more satisfactory but requires practice, and written directions would be of little use in teaching it. See- ing it done would be far more to the purpose, and indeed it is the only real way of learning how to bone. The fowl being boned, fill it with a forcemeat as below, press it to- gether with the hands to make it a good shape, and roll it in a buttered cloth, giving it the shape of a short thick sausage ; tie it tightly at both ends. Put three quarts of light stock in the braising-pan, add the bones of the fowl, broken small, an onion stuck with two cloves, a carrot and a small turnip peeled and quartered, a little celery, a bunch of herbs, and six peppercorns. Set this over the gas turned three-quarter full on and boil up. Skim, put in the galantine, and bring again to boiling-point, reduce the gas to half full on, and simmer for two hours, skimming occasionally. Take the galantine out, unpack it, wash the cloth and wring it dry. Tie the galantine tightly in it as before, put it between two dishes with a weight on the top and let it cool. In the mean- time, strain the stock, remove the fat from it, and use it for making an aspic jelly (see page 70), adding gelatine in the proportion of three ounces to the quart in wder to obtain a very stiff jelly. Pour the jelly on a baking-tin to the depth256 The Art of Cooking by Gas. of three-quarters of an inch, and let it set, but reserve about half a pint of it to glaze the galantine. The galantine being quite cold, put it on a tin in the warm oven for three minutes, it will then look moist and greasy, wipe it carefully to remove this moisture, and put the galantine on a cold dish. Just soften the half pint of jelly which was reserved, and brush the galantine over with it evenly to produce a transparent glaze. Cut the jelly that is in the tin into blocks, either square or pointed, and put these round the galantine, ornament the top in a similar manner. Chop up finely all that is left of the jelly and put it in a forcing^bag with plain pipe end. Squeeze it round the base of the galantine between it and the blocks of jelly. The top can be further ornamented with truffles and cockscombs stuck on silver skewers. The galantine can also be raised in the dish by putting a block of fried bread under it (see page 210). The block for this purpose should be cut of the same length and breadth as the galantine, a trifle smaller if any- thing, and must be entirely hidden by the garnish of aspic jelly. Forcemeat for Galantine.—Pass through a sausage- machine three-quarters of a pound of lean veal, half a pound of fresh pork, and a quarter of a pound of ham. Pound these well together with a tea-spoonful of salt, a salt- spoonful of pepper, a table-spoonful of chopped herbs (parsley, thyme, marjoram, half a bay-leaf, a little basil), a salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg. If' the farce looks too dry add a little good gravy. Spread the farce on the table about an inch thick, reserving about a quarter of it. Put over it a quarter of a pound of tongue, and the same of ham cut in small strips, two table-spoonfuls of pistachio nuts which have been blanched (see page 227), and a couple of truffles, if available, divided in small dice. These being spread evenly over the farce, put over it the part that was reserved, rolled like a sausage, and wrap theBrea k easts—September. 257 farce carefully round it to form a long roll. Dip the hands in cold water to handle the farce more easily and slip it inside the bird, close the ends, and finish as directed above. Eggs in Cases. Take six little round paper cases about two inches broad and one inch and a half high ; oil them carefully outside and dry them thoroughly in the warm oven. This can be done when only the flash lights are on. When they are quite dry and stiff, put a small piece of butter in each. Chop finely a dessert-spoonful of parsley, one of chervil, and half a shallot, wash the shallot and squeeze it in the corner of a cloth, add a pinch of salt, one of pepper, and mix well together. Put a pinch of this seasoning in each of the cases, and put them in a baking-tin under the griller, the grid and pan being removed. Turn the gas half full on, and warm gently to dissolve the butter, break six eggs, one by one, in a cup, slipping each one from the cup into the paper case. Sprinkle on the eggs the rest of the herbs, and a tea-spoonful of brown bread-crumbs. Turn the gas a little higher. Cook for four minutes ; as soon as they are set they are done. Dish up on a hot dish, and serve. SEPTEMBER. Grilled Bream. Breme Grillee. Croustades of Partridge. Croustades de Perdreau. Farced Eggs and Tomato Sauce. Giufs Farcis Sauce Tomate. Grilled Bream. Wash and cleanse the bream thoroughly, but do not scale it. It can be stuffed with a forcemeat like perch (see page 160), or plainly broiled from eighteen to twenty minutes, according to size, and a little maitre d’hotel butter (see page 165) put in the fish just before sending it to the table. In either case, remember to draw the point of a sharp knife along the back when the fish is half done, so as to remove R258 The Art of Cooking by Gas. the skin and scales easily when carving. Serve hot with ravigote or tartare sauce in a boat. Croustades of Partridge. Cut seven pieces of bread kite or cutlet shape, about three inches long and an inch and three-quarters thick. Cut also one round piece of bread of the same thickness and two and a half inches in diameter. Make a mark on all these, three-eighths of an inch from the edge, with the point of a knife or a smaller cutter, cutting only to the depth of half an inch ; fry them in hot fat and drain them on a hot cloth. Cut the middle part out and scoop out the soft inside. Fill the croustades with a salmis of partridge, as below, arrange the long pieces round a hot dish, all pointing to the centre, put the round one on the top in the middle, and serve. Salmis of Partridge.—Cut all the meat off a cold roast partridge, and put it aside ready for use. Break the bones small. Melt an ounce of butter in the stewpan over the gas turned three-quarter full on. Add the bones of the bird, two whole shallots, one small tomato cut in quarters, a bunch of herbs, and three crushed peppercorns. Cover and fry these, shaking them several times; in ten minutes sprinkle in an ounce of flour, and, when well mixed, add half a pint of good stock, a glass of claret or port wine, and a tea-spoonful of ketchup; bring up to boiling-point and skim, reduce the gas to half full on and simmer for twenty minutes. Strain the sauce, rinse and wipe the stewpan. Put the sauce back in it, taste it, add a little cayenne pepper and salt if necessary. Cut the meat in very small pieces and put it in the sauce; just warm through, add a dessert- spoonful of lemon-juice, fill the _ croustades, and serve hot. Fresh mushrooms can be used instead of ketchup; they should be prepared as directed on page 212, finely sliced, and added to the sauce at the same time as the meat. The259 Brea kf as ts— October. lemon-juice must be added only just before serving and well stirred in. The above sauce is useful for warming up various kinds of game, especially wild duck, teal, etc. The bones and vegetables used in flavouring the sauce are a good addition to the stockpot, but the shallot had better be picked out unless a highly-flavoured stock is required. Farced Eggs and Tomato Sauce. Boil six eggs for ten minutes, and put them in cold water until cold. Shell them; cut them in halves length- wise. Remove the yolks, put them in a basin with their own weight in butter and work them together with a wooden spoon, or pound them with the butter in a mortar, gradually adding two whole raw eggs, which have been lightly beaten, just enough to mix yolk and white, a table-spoonful of chopped-up parsley, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a pinch of pepper. The farce being quite smooth, put enough of it in each half egg to represent a whole yolk ; round and smooth it with a palette knife dipped in water. Butter thinly a fire- proof porcelain dish, spread the rest of the farce on it, and arrange the eggs neatly over this. Warm two ounces of butter in a saucepan and put a spoonful of it on each egg, light the gas in the griller for three minutes, remove the grid and pan, put the dish in their place and warm thoroughly for five or six minutes, or put the eggs in the hot oven for the same time. They should only be slightly browned. Serve hot with a tomato sauce in a tureen. OCTOBER. Thames Dabs. Limandes de la Tamise. Broiled Sausages. Saucisses Grille'es. Poached Eggs. CEufs Poches. Fried Thames Dabs. This delicate fish is but too often served in a way which is by no means calculated to bring out its good qualities. I26o The Art of Cooking by Gas. refer to the water souchet, which is nothing more than the fish served in the very plain liquor in which it has been boiled. This might be suitable for an invalid requiring very plain food; that is, if the invalid could be reconciled to the look of it, but I do not see how small fish floating about in a sort of portable aquarium, filled with more or less pellucid water, can be considered an elegant and appetizing dish. The dab is too delicate to be boiled, and the best way to deal with it is to fry it crisply like a sole or whiting, and serve it garnished with fried parsley and slices of lemon. (See page 46, “ Directions for Frying P'ish.”) Melted butter, anchovy sauce, ravigote, or bearnaise, are all suitable to serve with this fish, and will be found under their respective headings. Dabs are also excellent au gratin (see “ Sole au Gratin,” page 143), reckoning three or four dabs as the equivalent of one sole. Should they be at all likely to be muddy, put them, after they are cleansed, in salt and water, with a table-spoonful of vinegar to each quart of water, for an hour before cooking them. Broiled Sausages. Excellent sausages of various kinds can be obtained from good poulterers and other shops, but if it is necessary to prepare them at home, the following recipe will be found useful:—Mince finely half a pound of lean fresh pork and half a pound of fat bacon, both quite free from skin and gristle; add two ounces of bread, which has been soaked in milk and squeezed nearly dry. Pound these well together with a tea-spoonful of pepper, a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea- spoonful of powdered sage, a pinch of powdered mace, one of powdered allspice, and one of cloves. When quite smooth, put it in sausage skins, and divide it in six sausages of equal length. Prick these in several places with a larding- needle; light the gas in the grillcr for three minutes. WipeBrea kfasts—November. 261 the grid and pan, and rub a little butter on the bars. Put the sausages on and broil for twenty minutes, turning them so that they may cook evenly. Dish them, side by side, on a very hot dish, and serve. Sausage-skins are sold ready prepared for use, arid will be found most convenient. However, if no sausage-skins are available, divide the sausage-meat in six pieces, roll these out to the shape of sausages, flour them lightly, cover with egg and bread- crumbs and grill as above, or fry them. Italienne, piquante, ravigote, or Robert sauce are all suitable with sausages. Poached Eggs. Poach the eggs as directed on page 222. Cut six round croutons two and a half inches broad and half an inch thick; fry these in hot fat, and drain them on a hot cloth. Put them on a hot dish, drain and trim the eggs, put one on each crouton, sprinkle a very little- pepper and salt on the top, and serve. NOVEMBER. Broiled Sprats. Sardines Fraiches Grillees. Terrine of Hare. Terrine de Liivre. Omelet with Mushrooms. Omelette aux Champignons. Broiled Sprats. Wash and cleanse two pounds of very fresh sprats. Remove the eyes, flour the fish lightly and pass a wooden skewer through the head, putting about half a dozen fish on a skewer, not too closely packed. Eight the gas in the griiler for three minutes, wipe the grid and pan, rub a little butter on the bars, put the sprats on and grill them two minutes on each side. Lay them on a very hot dish, remove the skewers, sprinkle over the fish a pinch of cayenne pepper and a few drops of lemon-juice. Serve as hot as possible with very hot plates. Terrine of Hare. A young and rather freshly-killed hare is best for this.262 The Art op Cooking by Gas. The terrine is a deep fire-proof porcelain dish made in the shape of a raised pie and provided with a well-fitting lid. These can be procured at almost any china shop, and are useful for many purposes. Skin and cleanse the hare, being careful to save the blood as much as possible. Divide all the meat of the more fleshy parts in pieces about an inch square and reserve it, then take all the rest of the flesh off the bones, add to it the liver of the hare, half a pound of veal, half a pound of fresh pork, both quite free from bones, skin, fat, and gristle, and half a pound of fat bacon, the rind of which has been cut off. Mince all these, and pound them well together with a dessert-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of freshly-ground pepper, a table-spoonful of chopped-up parsley, a dessert- spoonful of chopped-up chives, a tea-spoonful of chopped- up thyme, and one of sage, a finely-minced shallot, a pow- dered bay-leaf, and four crushed cloves. Cut a slice of fat bacon in small lardons about an eighth of an inch thick and an inch and a quarter long ; sprinkle on a plate a tea-spoon- ful of salt, a salt-spoonful of pepper, one of powdered sage, and one of powdered thyme ; roll the lardons in this sea- soning and lard the pieces of hare, allowing one or two lardons to each piece (see page 144, “Full Directions for Larding”). In this case, prick the larding-needle right through the meat, coming out at the other side. Cut a quarter of a pound of lean raw ham in pieces an inch long and half an inch wide, throw these in boiling water over the gas turned three-quarter full on, and boil them for five minutes, drain and dry them. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan, put in the ham and larded pieces of hare, and shake them well over the gas three-quarter full on for ten minutes to brown them evenly, drain them. These being all ready, spread a layer of forcemeat at the bottom of the terrine, put some of the hare and ham on it, sprinkle a little pepper and salt over it. Put another layer of farce, one of hare,Breakfasts—November. 263 and so on until the terrine is full, making the top layer of forcemeat, cover with very thin slices of fat bacon, and put on the top a large bay-leaf. Pour in gently half a pint of good beef gravy and a wine-glassful of port wine. Cover with the lid. Make a strip of paste with a little flour and the white of an egg, and lute the edge of the cover with this, so that no steam may escape. Put the braising-pan on the fire with enough water in it to. come about two inches up the- side of the terrine (this can be tried beforehand to ascertain the quantity). Boil up over the gas turned full on, put in the terrine, reduce the gas to three-quarter full on, and bring to boiling-point again, then reduce the gas to half- full on, cover the pan and put on the braising-burner turned barely half full on, simmer very gently for three hours. Or stand the terrine in a pan of boiling water and bake in the oven for the same time. In the meantime, put the bones of the hare to stew with a pound of beef, the rind of the bacon and ham—well scraped and washed—the trimmings of the veal and pork, one quart of water, vegetables, and herbs (see “ Gravies,” page 57). Simmer these gently for two hours, remove the fat, and strain the gravy. Put it in a saucepan, and boil it without a cover over the gas turned three-quarter full on until it is reduced to about three-quarters of a pint, skim it carefully, set it aside to cool. The terrine being done, take it out, leave it to cool for half an hour, remove the paste from the edge, lift the cover, and fill up with the gravy, which is cool, but not cold. Cover again immediately, and gum a band of paper or tinfoil over the edges to exclude the air. Put the terrine away in a cool place for at least twenty- four hours before it is used. Omelet with Mushrooms. Prepare an omelet as directed on page 90, and three dozen mushrooms (see page 212). Cut the mushrooms in thin slices. Melt one ounce of butter in a saute-pan over264 The Art of Cooking by Gas. the gas turned three-quarter full on. Put in the mush- rooms, shake them well in, add a pinch of pepper, no salt. When they are a light brown, sprinkle in half an ounce of flour, stir it well in for a minute, add a quarter of a pint of good stock or gravy, boil up, and skim j then stir in a table-spoonful of chopped-up parsley, and one of shallot, both of which have been washed and squeezed in the corner of a cloth. These being well mixed, put the mushrooms and sauce in the omelet, fold it over, slip it on to a hot dish, and serve at once. Take a pound and a half of very fresh crimped skate, wash it well in cold water and salt, divide it in convenient pieces. Put in a stewpan enough water to cover it, say three pints; add a wine-glassful of French vinegar, a sliced onion, a sprig or two of parsley, a dessert-spoonful of salt, and a salt-spoonful of pepper. Bring up to boiling-point over the gas turned three-quarter full on. Put in the fish, and when the water boils again, skim, reduce the gas to half full on, and simmer for six or eight minutes, according to thickness. When done it looks quite white and opaque. Drain it, put it on a hot dish, and pour black butter over it. Serve hot. Black Butter.—Melt three ounces of butter in a frying- pan over the gas turned three-quarter full on, let it get brown, but not too dark, for the appellation of black butter must not be taken too literally or the butter will be burnt and unpleasant. Put in it two table-spoonfuls of parsley, taking only the tops of the sprigs, and cutting the stalks short. As soon as the parsley is crisp, pour it and the butter on the fish. Put two table-spoonfuls of French vinegar in the pan, DECEMBER. Skate and Black Butter. Game Pie. Poached Eggs and Celery. Raie au Beurre Noir. Pate de Gibier. G^ufs Poches au CGeri. Skate and Black Butter,Breakfasts—December. 265 add a good pinch of pepper, boil up the vinegar over the gas, and pour it also over the fish. Serve at once. Game Pie. Prepare the pastry as for raised salmon pie (^page 137). Bone two pheasants. Mince a pound and a half of veal and a pound and a half of bacon, both free from skin, bone, and gristle, pound them well together with a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of freshly-ground pepper, a salt-spoonful of powdered thyme, one of grated nutmeg, four crushed cloves, and a powdered bay-leaf. Cut half a pound of tongue in small dice, slice finely two or three truffles and a dozen mushrooms prepared as directed on page 212. Blanch a quarter of a pound of pistachio nuts in boiling water for five minutes, and rub them in a cloth to remove the skins. The pie mould being lined with the pastry, take half a pound of the farce, spread it flat on the table, put on it some of the tongue, truffles, mushrooms, and pistachios, roll it up, and put it inside one of the pheasants; repeat this operation for the other. Make a layer of farce about half an inch thick at the bottom of the pie, spread some of the tongue, truffles, etc., on it. Put the two birds over this, side by side, and fill the spaces all round and between with some more farce, put the rest of the tongue, truffles, etc., over the birds, and cover with the rest of the farce, with which the parings of the truffles, finely minced, have been mixed. Cover as directed for salmon pie (see page 137), leaving a half-inch hole in the centre of the cover. Light the gas in the oven of the kitchener for fifteen minutes, put in the pie, reduce the gas to half full on, and bake for three hours. Take out the pie, and, when nearly cold, fill it with gravy through the hole at the top. Put it away in a cool place for at least twenty-four hours, before cutting it open. Gravy for Game Pie.—Break the carcases of the birds, and put them in a stewpan with the trimmings of the veal2 66 The Art of Cooking By Gas. and bacon, an onion stuck with two cloves, a carrot sliced, four peppercorns, a stick or two of celery, a bunch of herbs, half a pint of water, and a wine-glassful of sherry or Madeira. Set this over the gas turned three-quarter full on, and shake the pan several times, let the liquor reduce to barely half the quantity, but be careful it does not burn. Add a pint and a half of light stock, bring up to boiling point, skim, reduce the gas to half full on, and simmer for two hours. Strain the gravy and return it to the stewpan, which has been rinsed and wiped ; dissolve in it a very little gelatine, say an eighth of an ounce. This being well dissolved, tammy the gravy, put it in a basin, and let it cool. When the pie is ready and nearly cold, pour the gravy, only just tepid, in it, and put away to set. Poached Eggs on. Celery. Poach the eggs as directed on page 222, trim them neatly, arrange them in a very hot dish on a puree of celery with fried croutons between them, and serve. Puree of Celery.—Prepare the celery as directed on page 126. When it is cooked, cut it in small pieces, and put it in a stewpan with half a pint of bechamel sauce. Simmer for half an hour, add a very little cayenne pepper and grated nutmeg, rub the celery through a sieve. Rinse and wipe the stewpan, return the celery to it, add a quarter of a pint of cream, stir well. Heat without boiling, and use as above. The following dishes are also suitable for breakfast:— All grilled fish and meat. Fried fish, lobster, salmon, and chicken croquettes. Cold dishes such as raised salmon pie, boiled tongue, ham, bacon, etc. Sole au gratin, curried lobster, scollops in shells, mush- rooms on croustades, grilled and farced tomatoes, etc., all of which will be found under their respective headings.\ 267 BREAD AND CAKES. In all the recipes given here for bread and cakes, the time has been reckoned as taken from a kitchener of the Charing Cross type, which is the one most likely to be used. The oven of the Metropole kitchener will do the work at the same rate, provided it has a governor attached to it. The Parisienne roaster also bakes admirably, especially delicate pastry, small rolls and cakes. As to unregulated stoves, they are so erratic in their results, owing to changes of pressure and other causes, that I find it quite impossible to give reliable time for any of the baking operations. Cooks must judge for themselves of the capabilities of the stoves they have to work with, and take note of the average time required, always making allowance for alterations in the pressure. Household Bread. Mix two ounces of French yeast with a tea-spoonful of Demerara sugar to soften it. When it is smooth and creamy, add half a pint of water, tepid in summer, warm in winter, but not hot. Sift a quartern (three and a half pounds) of the best white flour into a deep pan ; add two tea-spoonfuls of salt, rubbing it through the sieve with the flour. Make a hole in the middle of the flour, not going to the bottom, but leaving a thickness of flour at the bottom of the pan. Pour in the yeast, gradually work it in the flour; add, in small quantities at a time, about a pint and a half more of warm water. Knead for twenty minutes. The quantity of water required varies with different flours. The dough should be smooth and elastic, and' should not cling to the fingers when finished. Cover the pan with a woollen268 The Art op Cooking by Gas. • cloth kept for the purpose, and leave it in a warm place for one and a half to two hours, more or less, according to the warmth of the weather and the kitchen. In warm weather the dough rises much more rapidly. When it has swollen to double its original size, flour the board, cut the dough into loaves, and put these in baking-tins which have been very lightly floured and shaken to remove any excess of flour. The above quantity will give two two-pound loaves, and a smaller one. Put the tins in a warm place again for twenty minutes. In the meantime light the gas in the oven of the Charing Cross kitchener for twenty minutes. Put the tins in on the middle shelf. Leave the gas full on for twenty minutes, lower it to three-quarter full on for forty minutes, and again to half full on for fifteen or twenty minutes. The smaller loaf will be done before the others, and must be taken out first. To ascertain whether the bread is done, slip it out of the tin, and knock with the bent finger on the bottom of it; if it sounds hard and hollow, it is done ; but if the sound is a dull thud, the bread wants a little more baking. The loaves may want turning or shifting from back to front, but the oven should be opened as little as possible in the course of baking. When the loaves are done turn out the gas, unless it is wanted for light pastry, cakes, etc. Take the loaves out of the tins, keep them on their side in a warm place, in order that they may cool slowly. This bread should not be cut until twelve to eighteen hours after it is made. It will keep good nearly a week, in a closed pan, in a cool dry larder. Vienna Bread. Rub a quartern (three and a half pounds) of the best Vienna flour and two tea-spoonfuls of salt through a sieve into a pan. Mix two ounces and a half of French yeast with one and a half tea-spoonful of Demerara sugar in a basin until creamy. Add to it one pint of milk, and one of water,Bread and Cakes. 269 tepid in summer and warm in winter, but not hot. Make a hole in the flour leaving a thickness of flour at the bottom of the pan. Pour in gradually the yeast, milk, and water, working into dough and kneading for twenty minutes. When the dough is smooth and elastic, and does not cling to the fingers, it is ready. Sprinkle a little flour over it, cover it with a woollen cloth, set it in a warm place, and leave it to rise for an hour and a half in warm weather, or two hours if the weather is cold. Divide it in loaves about one pound each (the sixth will be rather less), put the loaves in round tins, five inches wide, and three inches high, the tins having been very lightly floured. Put' these in the oven of the Charing Cross kitchener with only the flash lights on, and leave them to rise for an hour. Turn the gas half full on, and bake for forty-five minutes, then raise the gas to three-quarter full on, and bake for thirty minutes longer. This bread is very light and delicious. It is not intended for keeping so long as the household bread, but, on the other hand, it can be safely eaten as soon as it is cold. Vienna Rolls. Make the dough as directed for Vienna bread, and when it has well risen, cut it in pieces weighing about three ounces each.. Shape them according to fancy without handling them too much ; flour very lightly a baking sheet, arrange the rolls on it, allowing space for swelling. Brush the rolls oyer with a little water, put the baking-sheet in the oven of the Charing Cross kitchener with only the flash lights on for fifteen minutes to rise, turn the gas on low for fifteen minutes, half full on for fifteen minutes, and raise it to three- quarter full on for fifteen minutes more, making altogether one hour. These rolls can be eaten as soon as they are cold. Milk Rolls. Sift one pound of fine Vienna flour; warm two ounces270 The Art of Cooking by Gas. of butter and rub it in the flour, add a tea-spoonful of salt. Put in a small basin three-quarters of an ounce of French yeast, and a tea-spoonful of Demerara sugar, work these together until smooth and creamy, add half a pint of milk. Pour these gradually into the flour, working it into a smooth dough quickly and lightly. Cover the dough and leave it in a warm place to rise for an hour. Heat the oven of the Charing Cross kitchener or the Parisienne roaster for fifteen minutes. Divide the dough into twelve pieces, and form these into fancy rolls without handling them too much. Arrange them on a lightly-floured baking sheet, brush them over with a little water, and bake them for twenty minutes with the gas three-quarter full on. These are good hot or cold. Wheaten Biscuits. Rub six ounces of butter into a pound of wheat meal, add a tea-spoonful of salt, and work with very little water into a short paste. Roll it out to the thick- ness of a quarter of an inch, stamp it with a round pastry cutter three inches in diameter, and put the biscuits on a baking-sheet. Light the gas in the Parisienne roaster or the oven of the kitchener for ten minutes, and bake the biscuits for ten to twelve minutes. For sweet biscuits, put only half a tea-spoonful of salt, and add two ounces and a half of castor sugar. The recipe for these biscuits was given to me by a gentleman who invented them for his own use, and they will prove invaluable to people whose digestion is trouble- some. They are excellent, and can be eaten unsweetened with meat, etc., instead of bread. Sweetened they are great favourites with children, and are, of course, far more whole- some and digestible than the ordinary biscuits. Oatmeal biscuits can be made in the same way by using medium oatmeal instead of wheat.Bread and Cakes. 271 Shortbread. Sift a pound of fine flour through a wire-sieve into a basin ; warm three-quarters of a pound of fresh butter and work it in the flour; add four ounces of castor sugar, or, if preferred, Demerara sugar, and four ounces of candied peel cut in very small pieces. Blanch four ounces of sweet almonds by boiling them in water for five minutes, remove the skins, chop the almonds finely, add them ; peel a very fresh lemon as thinly as practicable, and chop up very finely the yellow rind thus obtained. Work the mixture quickly with a wooden spoon, adding the chopped lemon and three yolks of eggs, one by one, until the paste is smooth. Turn it out on the floured pastry-slab ; roll it out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Cut it in square or round pieces, orna- ment the edge by pressing the forefinger of the left hand on the top and pinching the paste on each side between the forefinger and thumb of the right hand. Butter a piece of paper, put it on a baking-sheet, and put the cakes on it. Light the gas in the oven of the kitchener for ten minutes. Put in the shortbread and bake it for twenty minutes, if it is made in small cakes; allow twenty-five minutes for larger ones. Ornament while warm with dried cherries, strips of angelica, shredded almonds, candied peel, and carraway comfits. It will keep well for some time if put in a tin-box with grease-proof paper between and stored in a dry place. Madeleines. Dissolve gently two ounces of very fresh butter, then gradually work in four ounces of sifted flour, six ounces of castor sugar, and a little vanilla essence or orange flower water. Add the yolks of three eggs, one by one, taking care to stir each well in, before putting in another. The paste being quite smooth and well mixed, whisk the whites of the eggs quite stiffly, stir them lightly in the paste, but without beating it. Brush some small fluted dariol moulds with272 The Art of Cooking by Gas. dissolved butter, dust them over with flour and sifted sugar in equal parts; half-fill them with the mixture and bake for half an hour in the oven of the kitchener, the gas of which has been lighted for ten minutes before putting in the pastry, and lowered to half full on five minutes after it is put in. When they are done, turn them out on a pastry- rack to cool. Prepare an icing (see page 80), flavour it with maraschino, kirsch, or cura^oa, according to taste, colour it a delicate pink or green with a few drops of carmine or sap- green ; cover the madeleines with it and return them to the pastry-rack until quite set and dry. THey can also be served without the icing, but their appearance is greatly im- proved by it. They are useful for dessert, luncheon, and five o’clock tea. ringer Biscuits. Put the yolks of six very fresh eggs in a basin with eight ounces of castor sugar and the yellow rind of a lemon peeled off as thinly as possible, then chopped up very finely. Beat lightly with a wooden spoon for a few minutes to mix well. Whisk the whites of the eggs with a pinch of salt until very stiff. Gradually add to the yolks the whites and four ounces of flour, thoroughly dry and sifted. Do this by stirring in lightly a little white of egg, a little flour, then more white of egg, and so on, until all is used. This must be done quickly, while the whites are quite stiff. Put the mixture in a forcing-bag with a plain pipe end, and squeeze it out on a baking-tin covered with a sheet of white paper. Make each biscuit about three inches and a half long by one inch wide, and leave a space of an inch and a half between them to allow for swelling ; dust them with icing sugar. The gas having been lighted for five minutes in the oven of the kitchener, put in the biscuits, reduce the gas a little and bake for ten minutes. They must only take the lightest buff colour. When done take them out and lay them onBread and Cakes. 273 the table face downwards; brush the paper with a little water at the back of each biscuit and it will come off readily. Put the biscuits on a pastry-rack to cool. They can be served either plain or garnished with cream, like meringues. For this, spread a spoonful of whipped and flavoured cream (see page 73) on the underside of one biscuit and press another against it. These are very pretty for dessert or five o’clock tea. Macaroons. Put eight ounces of sweet almonds, to which six or eight bitter ones have been added, in a saucepan of boiling water, boil them for five minutes, drain them ; put them in a rough clean cloth and rub to detach the skins. Pick out the almonds, quite clean and free from skins, wipe them, put them in a mortar. Whisk two whites of eggs in a basin with a pinch of salt; they need not be stiff, but only well broken and frothy. Sift ten ounces of sugar through a fine sieve; have this and the whites of eggs ready. Pound the almonds, gradually adding a little white of egg, a little sugar, and so on until all is reduced to a paste; this paste must be soft, but not enough to spread, when dropped on the slab from a spoon. Flavour it while working with a little essence of vanilla, orange-flower water, or rind of lemon finely grated. Put the paste in a forcing-bag with plain pipe end, squeeze it out on a baking-sheet covered with a piece of white paper, making rounds two inches wide and rather more than a quarter of an inch thick. Dust with icing sugar, and having lighted the gas in the oven of the kitchener for five minutes previously, put in the macaroons and bake for ten or twelve minutes-. As soon as they are a light golden brown, take them out, lay them on the table, face downwards, and brush the paper with a little water at the back of each to detach them. Put them on a pastry- rack to cool until quite dry and crisp. S274 The Art of Cooking by Gas. Pound Cake. Take a pound of fresh butter, a pound of fine flour, and a pound of loaf sugar. Put the flour on a baking-tin in the oven of the kitchener with only the flash-lights on to warm. Rub off the yellow rind of two lemons with the sugar, then pound it finely. Break eight eggs, whites and yolks separately in two basins. Beat the butter to a cream with a wooden spoon. Add the sugar to it and work smoothly. Beat lightly the yolks of eggs with a wine- glassful of brandy ; stir them in gradually with the butter until quite smooth. Whisk the whites of eggs till very stiff, sift the flour, add it and the whites of eggs, in alternate spoonfuls, to the other ingredients, until all is mixed in and smooth. Butter a cake-mould and line it with buttered paper, put in the mixture, and having lighted the gas in the oven of the kitchener for ten minutes previously, put in the cake and bake for an hour. The gas may want reducing a little if the cake appears to brown too quickly. Fruit can be added to this cake in the following pro- portions :—A quarter of a pound of candied peel cut in small dice, a quarter of a pound of dried cherries divided in halves, a quarter of a pound of sultanas, and a quarter of a pound of almonds blanched and chopped up. If these are put in the cake they should be mixed in the butter, etc., before the flour and whites of eggs are put in. The cake will take longer to bake. The gas should be reduced to half full on after the cake is put in, and an hour and a half allowed for baking. The above quantity will make a large cake, or can be diviclAl in smaller ones, in which case, of course, they would take less time to bake, according to their size. Sponge Cake. Butter a fancy cake-mould and strew it with sifted sugar. Keep it in readiness. Prepare a paste as for finger biscuits (see page 272), pour the mixture in the mould, only half-filling275 Bread and Cakes. it. Have the gas lighted in the oven of the Charing Cross kitchener for ten minutes, put in the cake, reduce the gas to half full on, and bake for an hour. The cake will rise very much; when it is half done, put a small plate filled with sand or salt under it, to prevent the top. from getting too brown, it must only be a light buff. When done, take it out of the oven, and let it get nearly cold, before taking it out of the mould. Seed Cake. Butter a cake-tin and line it with buttered paper. Beat half a pound of fresh butter to a cream ; mix with it gradu- ally half a pound of sifted sugar and a pinch of salt. Work together till it looks smooth and white, then add the yolks of six eggs well beaten together. Gradually stir in half a pound of flour, which has been sifted and warmed, a salt- spoonful of.powdered -cinnamon, one of nutmeg, and one of carraway seeds. Whisk the whites of eggs with a pinch of salt until very stiff, and mix them in gradually and lightly, but as quickly as practicable. Put the mixture in the papered tin, and the gas having been lit for ten minutes in the oven of the kitchener, put in the cake, reduce the gas a little, and bake for forty-five minutes. When it has been baking for half an hour, sift a little icing sugar on it, and put it back. When done, turn it out on to a pastry- rack, and keep it in a warm place so that it may cool very gradually. If wanted for keeping, do not remove the paper until about to use the cake. Plum Cake. Work the paste in the same manner as for seed cake (see preceding recipe), but, instead of carraway seeds, add three ounces of currants, washed, picked, and dried, three ounces of stoned raisins, and two ounces of candied peel divided in small dice. This cake will require baking for an hour in a buttered and papered tin. The gas should be lit for ten276 The Art of Cooking by Gas. minutes before the cake is put in the oven of the kitchener, and lowered to half full on after the cake is in. French Almond Cake. Make-a pound of puff paste as directed on page no. Blanch a quarter of a pound of almonds, including three or four bitter ones, and rub them in a clean rough cloth to remove the skins. Pound the almonds with the white of an egg lightly beaten and gradually added, to prevent them from turning oily ; reserve the yolk for brushing over the cake. Add a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter beaten to a cream, a pinch of salt, a little essence of vanilla or orange flower-water; con- tinue pounding, add one egg lightly beaten, and, when well mixed in, add a second one. AVhen the paste is quite smooth, divide the puff pastry in two parts, roll out one to half an inch thickness, put it on a baking-sheet, spread the almond paste on it, so that it does not come quite to the edge, but leave an inch width all round, brush the edge lightly with water. Roll out the other half of the pastry and lay it on the top; press the edges firmly together, trim the cake round neatly, ornament the top with the point of a knife. Beat the yolk of egg with a little water, brush the cake over with it. The gas having been lit in the oven' of the kitchener for fifteen minutes, put in the cake and bake for forty-five minutes, reducing the gas to barely three-quarter full on. Let the cake cool a little, strew sifted sugar over it, and serve. Icing for Cakes. Put a pound of icing sugar in a basin. Whisk the whites of three eggs, just to break and froth them, work them in with the sugar, adding a tea-spoonful of strained lemon juice. AVhen quite smooth and white, apply it to the cakes with a palette knife dipped in water. Smooth it well,277 Bread and Cakes. and put away in a warm place for twenty-four hours to set. The icing can be coloured a delicate pink with a few drops of carmine, or green with a little sap green. The cake can be served plainly iced, or it can be ornamented with angelica, dried cherries, pistachios, or comfits. These must be put on when the icing is partly dry, but not set; for, if the icing is too soft, the ornaments may slip from their places, and, if it is set, they will not stick on. Some icing can also be put in a forcing-bag and squeezed through plain or rose pipes (see Fig. 23). Various designs, such as flowers, wreaths, names, can be made thus with very little trouble, and they look very pretty. When this is done, the. first coat of icing should be quite dry before it is ornamented. Vienna Icing. Beat six ounces of fresh butter to a cream, add to it half a pound of icing sugar, a dessert-spoonful of brandy and one of liqueur according to taste : kirsch, maraschino, noyau, etc. Work with a wooden spoon until creamy, and colour if desired. This icing does not dry like the ordinary icing, but remains creamy. It can be squeezed on cakes and pastry through a forcing-bag and fancy pipes in the form of flowers, scrolls, etc. It looks very pretty, and is delicious.■iINDEX. Almond cake, French, 276. Almonds, Devilled, 105. Anchovies, Croustades of, 142. Anchovy puree, 142. ,, sauce, 161. Angels on horseback, 187. Apple Charlotte, 182. ,, fritters, 190. ,, sauce, 126. ,, tart, 178. Apples and rice, 141. ,, whipped, 168. Apricots a la Conde, 104. Artichokes, Boiled, 156. ,, Fried, 206. Asparagus, Boiled, 150. ,, tops for omelets, 201. Aspic jelly, 70. B Bacon, Boiled, 166. Baked custard, 151. Baking, General directions for, 61. ,, sheets, Asbestos, 61. Barding birds for roasting, 102. Batter for frying, 50. Beans, French, 168. ,, Windsor, 89. Bearnaise Sauce, 87. Bechamel sauce, Grasse, 251. „ „ Maigre, 140. Beef, fillets of, Grilled, 87. ,, Roast, 34. ,, „ sirloin of, 113. ,, Spiced, 242. Beignets souffles, 163. Bigarade, Sauce, 132. Biscuits, Finger, 272. „ Wheaten, 270. Blackberry pudding, 172. Blanching, 60. Boiled artichokes, 156. ,, asparagus, 150. ,, bacon, 166. „ beans, French, 168. ,, ,, Windsor, 89. ,, cabbage, 132. ,, calfs head, 165. ,, cauliflowers, 172. ,, cod, 108. ,, custard, 158. » eggs, 241. ,, leg of mutton, 161. ,, marrowbones, 196. „ potatoes, new, 76. ,, ,, old, H4- „ ,, ,, another way, 177. ,, salmon, 66. ,, sea-kale, 115. ,, tongue, 155. ,, turbot, 83. Boiler, Rapid, 29. Boiling, General directions for, 51* ,, Stream Therma, 30. Bouchees a la Reine, no. Bouillabaisse, 179. Brain and tongue in potato cases, 167. Braised celery, 126. ,, ham, 88. ,, shoulder of mutton, 175. ,, turkey, 112. Braising burner, 26. Brandade, 240. Brawn, 238. Bread, Household, 267. ,, crumbs, Brown, 51. ,, ,, Browned, 91. ,, White, 48. ,, Golden, 203.280 The Art of Cooking by Gas. Bread, Pulled, 122. ,, sauce, 102. ,, Vienna, 268. ,, and butter pudding, 197. Bream, Grilled, 257. Broiled kidneys, 248. ,, sausages, 260. ,, sprats, 261. Brown sauce, 73. Browned potatoes, 162. Brussels sprouts, 185. Bruxelles hot plate, 16. Burners, Atmospheric, 5- ,, Luminous, 5. Bush of crayfish, 140. Butter, Black, 264. ,, Maitre d’hote], 165. ,, Melted, 115. ,, to clarify, 249. C Cabbage, Boiled, 132. Cake, French almond, 276. ,, Plum, 275. ,, Pound, 274. ,, Seed, 275. ,, Sponge, 274. Cakes, Icing for, 276. ,, Icing (Vienna) for, 277. ,, Potato, 139. Calf’s head, Boiled, 165. ,, ,, Fried, 195. ,, liver and bacon, 241. Caper sauce, 162. Cauliflowers, Boiled, 172. ,, au gratin, 101. Celery, Braised, 126. ,, with poached eggs, 266. Charing Cross gas kitchener, 10. Charlotte, Apple, 182. Chaudfroid of chicken, 209. ,, quails, 69. ,, sauce, Brown, 69. „ „ White, 209. Cheese fritters, 179. ,, straws, 94. Cherry and currant tart, 157- Chicken bechamel, 251. Chicken chaudfroid, 209. ,, fricassee, 212. „ Grilled, 43. ,, Roast, 76. Chipolata garnish, 113. Chocolate, 234. Chops, grilled, Mutton, 189. „ ,, Pork, 191. Choux with cream, 79. Christmas pudding, 118. Civet of hare, 224. Clarify, To, butter, 249. ,, „ stock, 65. Cocoa, 235. Cod, Boiled, 108. ,, Fried, 130. Coffee, 233. ,, Icing, 200. ,, urn, Improved, 28. ,, roaster, 26. ,, roasting, 62. Compote of pigeons, 98. Connaught gas kitchener, 22. Consomme (clear soup), 64. Cooking by gas, Advantages of, 3. Cordon Bleu gas kitchener, 18. Court bouillon for salmon, &e., 67. Crayfish a la Bordelaise, 68. ,, Bush of, 140. Cream, Pineapple, 133. ,, Pistachio, 227. „ Whipped, 173. Crecy soup, 159. Criterion gas kitchener, iS. Croquenbouche of oranges, 120. Croquettes, Lobster, 208. ,, Rice, 193. ,, Salmon, 247. Croustades, .50. ,, of anchovies, 142. ,, ,, marrow, 128. ,, ,, mushrooms, 217. ,, „ partridge, 25S. ,, „ peaches, 168. „ ,, pine apple, 231. ,, „ sardines, 152. Crofite au pot, 128. Croutons, 50. Crumpets, 237. Crust, Short, 151.Index. 281 Currants, Crystallized, 211. ,, for sucking pig, 42. Curried lobster, 153. Curries, Rice for, 124. Custard, Baked, 151. ,, Boiled, 158. ,, Royal, for soup, 66. D Dace, Fried, 211. Digester, Papin’s, for stocks, 57. Duchesses potatoes, 100. Duck, Roast, 40. „ Wild, 132. ,, ,, Sauce for, 132. Duckling with turnips, 201. E Eclairs au cafe, 200. Ecrevisses a la Bordelaise, 68. Eels, Fried, 171. ,, Stewed, 228. Egg and bread-crumbs, 48. Eggs a la bonne femme, 253. ,, ii la tripe, 246. ,, Boiled, 24 r. ,, en miroir, 244. ,, Farced, 259. ,, in cases, 257. „ Poached, 222, 261. ,, „ on celery, 266. ,, Plovers’, boiled, 249. ,, ,, in aspic, 86. ,, ,, on croustades, 250. ,, Scrambled, with ham, 188. » ,» „ peas, 251. ,, Snow, 147. F Fillets of beef, Grilled, 87. ,, sole in aspic, 135. Finger biscuits, 272. Fish quenelles, 194. ,, stock, 56. Flames, Blue or atmospheric, 5- ,, White or luminous, 5. Flash lights, Advantage of, 6. Foie gras in aspic, 99. Forcemeat for galantine, 256. ,, < goose (two), 40. ,, perch, 160. „ pike, 215. ,, pork, 37. ,, quails, 70. ,, salmon pie, 138. ,, shoulder of mutton, I7S ,, sucking pig, 41. ,, turkey, braised, 112. ,, „ roast, 38. ,, ,, poult truffle, 154- „ veal, 37. Forcing bags, 72. Fowls, Roast, 37. French beans, 168. Fresh fruit tartlets, 207. Fricandeau, 144. Fricassee of chicken, 212. ,, peas, 199. Fried artichokes, 206. ,, calf's head, 195. „ cod, 130. ,, eels, 171. ,, gudgeons, 175. ,, lobster croquettes, 208. ,, parsley, 49. ,, plaice, 244. ,, roach and dace, 211. ,, salsifis, 225. ,, smelt, no. ,, sole (Colbert), 254. ,, sweetbreads, 72. ,, Thames dabs, 259. ,, whitebait, 85. ,, whiting, 184. ,» pout, 250. Fritters, Apple, 190. „ Cheese, 179. Fritto misto, 197. Frying, Batter for, 50. ,, General directions for, 44.The Art of Cooking by Gas. 282 Frying pans and kettles, 44. ,, To clarify fat for, 46. ,, ,, suet for. 45. Fumet of game, 103. G Galantine, 255. Game pie, 263. „ soup, 95. ,, stock, 56. Garnish, Chipolata, 113. ,, Glazed onions, 176. ,, Jardiniere, 205. ,, Turnips, 202. Gas burners, Luminous, 5. ,, ,, Atmospheric, 5. ,, coffee roaster, 26. ,, ,, urn, Improved, 28. ,, griller, Double, 22. ,, „ Single, 22. ,, ,, The Roberts’, 25. ,, kitcheners, 10. ,, roaster, Parisienne, 7. General directions for baking, 61. ,,. ,, ,, boiling, 51. .. ,» ,, trying, 44, » », ,, grilling, 42. » „ »» roasting, 32. Glaze, 59. Glazed onions, 176. Golden bread, 203. Goose, Roast, 39. Goslings, Roast, 90. ,, Gravy for, 90. Governors, Importance of gas, 6. Gravy, Beef, 57. ,, for game pie, 265. „ „ goslings, 9°- ,, „ teal and other game, 186. „ ,, veal and ham pie, 246. „ Mutton, 58. „ Veal, 58- Green pea soup, 148. ,, peas, 75. ,, sauce (Verte), 97. Greengages with cream, 214. Grilled bream, 257. ,, fillets of beef, 87. ,, herrings, 252. „ lamb cutlets, 203. „ mackerel, 242. ,, mushrooms, x 81. ,, mutton chops, 189. ,, perch, 160. „ pigeons, spread eagle, 198. „ pork chops, 191. ,, . red mullet, 164. „ salmon, 149. „ ,, trout, 96. „ steak, 228. „ tomatoes, 213. Griller, Double, 22. „ Single, 22. „ The Roberts’, 24. Grilling, General directions for, 42. Grouse, Roast, 103. Gudgeons, Fried, 175. H Haddock, Kedgeree of, 237. Haggis, 130. Ham, Braised, 88. ,, Potted, 249. Hare, Civet of, 224. ,, Terrine of, 261. Haricots, Maitre d’Hotel, 189. Herrings, Grilled, 252. „ roes on toast, 173. Hollandaise sauce, 67. Hominy, 236. Horseradish sauce, 114. Hot plate, Bruxelles, 16. water apparatus, 30. Household bread, 267. I Icing, coffee, 200. ,, for cakes, 276. ,, „ choux, 80. ,, Vienna, 277.283 Index. Irish stew, 184. Italienne sauce, 144. J Jardiniere garnish, 205. Jelly a la Russe, So. „ Aspic, 70. „ Silver, 121. IC Kedgeree of haddock, 237. Kidneys, Broiled, 24S. Kitchener, gas, Charing Cross, 10. ,, „ Connaught, 22. „ ,, Cordon bleu, 18. „ ,, Criterion, 18. „ „ Lady’s own, 19. „ ,, Metropole, 22. ,, Westminster, 22. Kromeskies of oysters, 98. L Lady’s own gas kitchener, 19. Lamb cutlets with jardiniere, 205. „ forequarter of, roast, 73. ,, leg of, Roast, 149. Larding, 144. Lentil soup, 183. Liver, Calf’s, and bacon, 241. Lobster butter, 84. „ coral, 85. ,, croquettes, 208. „ Curried, 153. „ sauce, 84. Luminous flames, Advantage of, 5. M Macaroons, 273. Macaroni & la Napolilair.e, 192. Mackerel, Grilled, 242. ] Madeira sauce for ham, 89. „ „ „ puddings, 119. Madeleines, 271. Maitre d’hotel butter, 165. Marrow, Croustades of, 128. Marrowbones, 196. Mayonnaise of turbot, 203. „ sauce, 97. ,, Usefulness of, 204. Melted butter, 115. Meringues, 104. Metropole gas kitchener, 22. Milk rolls, 269. Mince pies, 119. Mint sauce, 74. Mock turtle soup, 169. Muffins, 237. Mullet, Red, grilled, 164. Mulligatawny, 124. Mushrooms, Grilled, 181. „ on croustades, 217- Mussels a la Mariniere, 223. Mustard sauce, 252. Mutton chops, 189. ,, leg of, Boiled, 161. ,, Roast, 35. ,, saddle of, Roast, 100. ,, shoulder of, Braised, 175- N New potatoes, Boiled, 76. „ in butter, 156. Nougats with cream, 92. Nouilles a la Milanaise, 230. O Oatmeal porridge, 235. Omelet, Sweet, 218. ,, with asparagus tops, 200. „ „ herbs, 239. „ „ mushrooms, 263. ,, ,, shrimps, 190. Onion soup, 142. Onions, Glazed, 176.284 The Art of Cooking by Gas. Oranges, Croquenbouche of, 120. „ glacees, 120. Oxtail soup, 82. Oyster sauce, 109. „ soup, 134. Oysters, Kromeskies of, 98. P Palestine soup, 174. Panade, 195. Pancakes, 127. Papin’s digester for stocks, 57. Parisienne gas roaster, 7. Parmesan souffle, 81. Parsley, Fried, 49. Parsnips with cream, 140. Partridge, Croustades of, 258. ,, Roast, 116. ,, Salmis of, 258. Pastry for raised pie, 137. Pea, Green, soup, 148. Peaches, Croustades of, 168. Pears, Stewed, 226. Peas, Fricassee of, 199. „ Green, 75. Perch, Grilled, 160. Perigueux sauce, 155. Pheasants, Roast, 102. Pie, Game, 265. „ Pigeon, 252. ,, Raised salmon, 137. ,, Veal and ham, 245. Pigeons, Compote of, 98. ,, Spread eagle, 198. Pike, Roast, 214. ,, ,, Sauce for, 215. Pineapple cream, 133. ,, Croustades of, 231. „ pudding, 91. Piquante sauce, 196. Pistachio cream, 227. Plaice, Fried, 244. Plovers’ eggs in aspic, 86. „ „ plain, 249. „ „ on croustades, 250. Plovers, Roast, 177 Plovers, Sauce for, 178. „ Savoury toast for, 178. Plum cake, 275. Poached eggs, 222, 261. „ on celery, 266. Poor man’s sauce, 199. Pork chops, 191. ,, Roast, 36. Porridge, Oatmeal, 235. Potato cakes, 139. ,, cases with brain and tongue, 167. „ ribbons, 126. „ salad, 202. Potatoes, Boiled, 114. i, „ anothei way, 177. „ Browned, 162. „ duchesses, 100. ,, in cases, 131. „ New, boiled, 76. ,, ,, in, butter, 156. ,, sautees, 88. „ Snow, 172. ,, souffles, 229. ,, Steamed, 147. „ with cream, 181. Potted meat, 249. Pound cake, 274. Profiterolles, Parmesan, 158. Pudding, Blackberry, 172. „ Bread-and-butter, 197. ,, Christmas, 118. „ Pineapple, 91. ,, Steak and kidney, 180. Puff paste, 110. Pulled bread, 122. Puree of anchovies, 142. „ onions (Soubise), 189. „ sardines, 152. ,, sorrel, 146. Q Quails, Chaudfroid of, 69. „ Roast, 163. Quenelles, Fish, 194. „ for game soup, 96.285 Index. K Rabbit, Stewed, 216. Rapid boiler, 29. Rarebit, Welsh, 1S3. Ravigote sauce, 171. Red mullet, Grilled, 164. Remolade sauce, 98. Rhubarb tart, 151. Rice croquettes, 193. ,, for curries, 124. ,, with apples, 141. Roach, Fried, 211. Roast beef, 34. ,, ,, Sirloin of, 113. ,, ducks, 40. ,, „ Wild, 132. ,, fowls, 37. ,, goose, 39. „ goslings, 90. „ grouse, 103. ,, lamb, forequarter of, 73. „ „ leg of, 149. ,, mutton, 35. ,, ,, saddle of, 100. ,, partridges, 116. ,, pheasants, 102. ,, pike, 214. ,, plovers, 177. ,, pork, 36. ,, quails, 163. „ spring chickens, 76. ,, snipe, 182. „ sucking pig, 41. ,, teal, 185. „ turkey, 38. » >. poult, 154. veal, 35. ,, woodcock, 117. Roaster, Coffee, 26. ,, Parisienne, 7. Roasting by gas, General direc- tions for, 32. Roasting, Coffee, 62. Robert sauce, 192. Roberts’ griller, 24. Roes, Herring, on toast, 173. Rolls, Milk, 269. ,, Vienna, 269. Royal custard for soups, 66. S Salad for lamb, 74. ,, Potato, 202. ,, Summer, 210. Salmis of partridge, 258. Salmon, Boiled, 66. ,, croquettes, 247. ,, Grilled, 149. ,, pie, Raised, 137. Salmon trout, Grilled, 96. Salsifis or Scorzoneras, 225. Sandwiches, Victoria, 223. Sardines on toast, 152. Sauce, Anchovy, 161. ,, Apple, 126. ,, Bearnaise, 87. ,, Bechamel grasse, 25 r. „ ,, maigre, 140. ,, Bigarade, 132. ,, Bread, 102. „ Brown, 73. ,, Caper, 162. ,, Chaudfroid brown, 69. ,, „ white, 209. „ for pike, 215. ,, „ plovers, 178. ,, „ vanilla souffle, 187. ,, Hollandaise, 67. ,, Horseradish, 114. ,, Italienne, 144. ,, Lobster, 84. ,, Madeira for ham, 89. „ „ ,, puddings, 119. ,,. Mayonnaise, 97. „ Melted butter, 115. ,, Mint, 74. ,, Mustard, 252. ,, Oyster, 109. ,, Perigueux, 155. ,, Piquante, 196. ,, Poor man’s, 199 ,, Ravigote, 171. ,, Rdmolade, 98. ,, Robert, 192. ,, Salmis, 258. ,, Soubise, 189. ,, Tartare, 98. ,, Tomato, 73. ,, Verte, 97. ,, Vinaigrette, 157.286 The Art of Cooking by Gas. Sausages, Broiled, 260. ,, for garnishing, 113. Savarin with fruit, 77. Savoury toast for plovers, &c., 178. Scallops in shells, 125. Scotch woodcock, 134. Scrambled eggs with ham, 188. „ „ „ peas, 251. Seakale, 115. Seed cake, 275. Short-crust, 151. Shortbread, 271. Shrimps, Devilled, 148. Silver jelly, 121. Skate and black butter, 264. Smelt, Fried, no. Snipe, Roast, 182. Snow eggs, 147. „ potatoes, 172. Sole au gratin, 143. ,, Fillets of, in aspic, 133. „ Filleting, 135. „ Fried (Colbert), 254. „ Normande, 219. Sorrel, Puree of, 146. „ _ soup, 153. Soubise sauce, 189. Souffle, Parmesan, 81. ,, Vanilla, 186. Soup and stock making, 53. ,, Clear, or consomme, 64. „ Crecy, 159. „ Croute au pot, 128. „ Game, 95. ,, Green pea, 14S. „ Lentil, 183. „ Mulligatawny, 124. ,, Onion, 142. ,, Oxtail, 82. „ Oyster, 134. „ Palestine, 174. „ Sorrel, 153. ■ ,, Tomato, 164. „ turtle, Clear, 106. „ „ Mock, 169. Spiced beef, 242. Spinach and poached eggs, 221. Sponge cake, 274. Sprats, Broiled, 261. Spring chickens, Grilled, 43. Spring chicken, Roast, 76. Steak and kidney pudding, 180. „ Grilled, 228. Steamed potatoes, 147. Stew, Irish, 184. Stewed eels, 228. „ pears, 226. „ rabbit, 216. Stock, Brown, 55. „ Clear, 64. „ fish, Brown, 37. „ „ White, 56. ,, Game, 56. ,, Papin’s digester for, 57. ,, To clarify, 65. „ White, 55. Sucking pig, Roast, 41. „ „ Currants for, 42. Suet for frying, 45. Sweet omelet, 218. Sweetbreads, 72. T Tart, Cherry and currant, 157. ,, Open apple, 178. ,, Rhubarb, 151. Tartare sauce, 98. Tartlets, Fresh fruit, 207. Tea, 232. Teal, Roast, 185. ,, ,, Gravy for, 186. Terrine of hare, 261. Thames dabs, 259. Therma, Boiling stream, 30. Tinned vegetables, Note on, 199. Toast, Buttered, 236. ,, Plain, 236. „ Savoury, for plovers, &c., 178. Tomato sauce, 73. „ soup, 164. Tomatoes, Grilled, 213. Tongue, Boiled, 155. Trout, salmon, Grilled, 96. Turbot, Boiled, S3. ,, Mayonnaise of, 203. Turkey, Braised, 112.287 Index. Turkey, Roast, 38. ,, poult, Roast, 154. Turnips for garnishing, 202. Turnspit, Clockwork, 9. „ Water motor, 9. Turtle soup, Clear, 106. „ „ Mock, 169. V Vanilla souffle, 186. „ „ Sauce for, 1S7. Veal and ham pie, 245. ,, cutlets, 221. „ Roast, 35. Vegetables, Boiling of, 59. Victoria sandwiches, 223. Vienna bread, 268. „ icing, 277. Vienna rolls, 269. Vinaigrette sauce, 157. Vol au-vent, 194. W Welsh rabbit, 183. Westminster gas kitchener, 22. Wheaten biscuits, 270. Whipped apples, 168. „ cream, 173.. Whitebait, 85. Whiting, Fried, 184. ,, forcemeat, 138. ,, pout, Fried, 250. Wild duck, Roast, 132. Windsor beans, 89. Woodcock, Roast, 117. ,, Scotch, 134. THE END. Printed by Cassell & Company, Limited, La Belle Sauvage, London, E.CSelections from Cassell 4 Company's Publications. Illustrate!), nttfc other IToIuntca. Abbeys and Churches of England and Wales, The: Descriptive, Historical, Pictorial. 21s. Adventure, The World of. Fully Illustrated. Yearly Vol. gs. American Library of Fiction. Crown 8vo, cloth, 3s. 6d. each. A Latin-Quarter Courtship. By Henry Harland (Sidney Luska). Grandison Mather. By Henry Harland (Sidney Lu^ka). •' 89." By Edgar Henry. The Tragedy of Brlnkwater. By Martha L. Mootfey. Karniel the Scout. By Sylvanus Cobb, Junr. Orion the Gold Beater. By Sylvanus Cobb, Junr. American Yachts and Yachting. Illustrated. 6s. Arabian Nights Entertainments, Cassell’s Pictorial. 10s. 6d. Architectural Drawing. By Phen£ Spiers. Illustrated. 10s. 6d. Art, The Magazine of. Yearly Vol. With 12 Photogravures, Etchings, &c., and several hundred choice Engravings. 16s. Bashkirtseff, Marie, The Journal of. Two Vols., demy 8vo, 24s. Birds’ Nests, Eggs, and Egg-Collecting. By R. Kearton. Illus- trated with 16 Coloured Plates. 5s. Bismarck, Prince. By Charles Lowe, M.A. Two Vols. 10s. 6d. Black Arrow, The. A Tale of the Two Roses. By R. L. Stevenson. 5s. British Ballads. With 275 Original Illustrations. Two Vols. 7s. 6d. each. British Battles on Land and Sea. By James Grant. With about too Illustrations. Three Vols., 4to, £1 7s.; Library Edition, £1 10s. British Battles, Recent. Illustrated. 4to, gs.; Library Edition, 10s. British Empire, The. By Sir George Campbell, M.P. 3s. Browning, An Introduction to the Study of. By A. Symons. 2s. 6d. Butterflies and Moths, European. With 61 Coloured Plates. 35s. Canaries and Cage-Birds, The Illustrated Book of. With 56 Fac- simile Coloured Plates, 35s. Half-morocco, £2 5s. Cannibals and Convicts. By Julian Thomas (“ The Vagabond”). 5s. Captain Trafalgar. By Westall and Laurie. 5s. Cassell’s Family Magazine. Yearly Vol. Illustrated, gs. Celebrities of the Century. 21s.; Roxburgh, 25s. Choice Dishes at Small Cost. By A. G. Payne, is. Cities of the World. Four Vols. Illustrated. 7s. 6d. each. Civil Service, Guide to Employment in the. 3s. 6d. Civil Service Guide to Female Employment in Government Offices, is. Clinical Manuals for Practitioners and Students of Medicine. A List of Volumes forwarded post free on application to the Publishers. Clothing, The Influence of, on Health. By F. Treves, F.R C.S. 2s. Colour. By Prof. A. H. Church. With Coloured Plates. 3s. 6d. Columbus, Christopher. By Washington Irving. Three Vols. 7s. 6d. Commerce, The Year-Book of. 5s. Commodore Junk. By G. Manvillr Fenn. 5s. Conquests of the Cross. With numerous Illustrations. Vol. I., gs. Cookery, A Year's. By Phyllis Browne. 3s. 6d. Cookery, Cassell's Dictionary of. Containing about Nine Thousand Recipes. 7s. 6d.; Roxburgh, 10s. 6d. Cookery, Cassell's Popular. With Four Coloured Plates. Cloth gilt, 2s. Cookery, Cassell’s Shilling. 384 pages, limp cloth, is. Countries of the World, The. By Robert Brown, M.A., Ph.D., &c. Complete in Six Vols., with about 750 Illustrations. 4to, 7s. 6d. each. 5 G. 6. goSelections from Cassell 4' Company's Publications. Cromwell, Oliver. By J. Ai.lanson Picton, M.P. 5s. Culmshire Folk. By the Author of “ John Orlebar," &c. 3s. 6d. Cyclopaedia, Cassell's Concise. With 12,000 subjects, brought down to the latest date. With about 600 Illustrations, 15s.; Roxburgh, 18s. Cyclopaedia, Cassell’s Miniature. Containing 30,000 subjects. 3s. 6d. Dairy Farming. By Prof. J. P. Sheldon. With 25 Coloured Plates. 21s. Dead Man's Rock. A Romance. By Q. 5s. Dickens, Character Sketches from. First, Second, and Third Series. With Six Original Drawings in each by F. Barnard. In Portfolio, 21s. each. Dog, Illustrated Book of the. By Vero Shaw, B.A. With 28 Coloured Plates. Cloth bevelled, 35s. ; half-morocco, 45s. Dog Stories and Dog Lore. By Col. Thos. W. Knox. 6s. Dog, The. By Idstone. Illustrated. 2s. 6d. Domestic Dictionary, The. Illustrated. Cloth, 7s. 6d. Dore Gallery, The. With 250 Illustrations by DorA 410,42s. Dore’s Dante’s Inferno. Illustrated by Gustave DorA 21s. Dorg’s Dante’s Purgatorio and''Paradiso. Illustrated by DorA 21s. Dore’s Milton’s Paradise Lost. Illustrated by DorA 410, 21s. Earth, Our, and its Story. By Dr. Robert Brown, F.L.S. With Coloured Plates and numerous Wood Engravings. Three Vols. gs. each. Edinburgh, Old and New. With 600 Illustrations. Three Vols. qs. each. Egypt: Descriptive, Historical, and Picturesque. By Prof. G. Ebers. With 800 Original Engravings. Popular Edition. In Two Vols. 42s. “89." A Novel. By Edgar Henrv. Cloth, 3s. 6d. Electricity, Age of. By Park Benjamin, Ph.D. 7s. 6d. Electricity, Practical. By Prof. W. E. Ayrton. 7s. 6d. Encyclopaedic Dictionary, The. A New and Original Work of Refer- ence to all the Words in the English Language. Complete in Fourteen Divisional Vols., 10s. 6d. each; or Seven Vols., half-morocco, 21s. each ; half-russia, 25s. England, Cassell’s Illustrated History of. With 2,000 Illustrations. Ten Vols., 4to, gs. each. Revised Edition. Vols. I., II., and III., gs. each. English History, The Dictionary of. Cheap Edition. 10s. 6d. English Literature, Dictionary of. By W. Davenport Adams. Cheap Edition, 7s. 6d.; Roxburgh, 10s. 6d. English Literature, Library of. By Prof. Henry Morley. Vol. I.—Shorter English Poems. 73. 6d. Vol. II.—Illustrations of English Religion. 7s. 6d. Vol. III.—English Plays. 7s. 6d. Vol. IV.—Shorter Works in English Prose. 7s. 6d. Vol. V.—Sketches of Longer Works in English Verse and Prose. 7s. 6d. English Literature, Morley’s First Sketch of. Revised Edition, 7s. 6d. English Literature, The Story of. By Anna Buckland. 3s. 6d. English Writers. By Prof. Henry Morley. Vols. I. to V. 5s. each. /Esop's Fables. Illustrated throughout by Ernest Griset. Cloth. 3s. 6d. Etching. By S. K. Koehler. With 30 Full-Page Plates. £4 4s. Etiquette of Good Society, is.; cloth, is. 6d. Europe, Pocket Guide to, Cassell's. Leather. 6s. Eye, Ear, and Throat, The Management of the. 3s. 6d.Selections from Cassell § Company's Publications. Family Physician, The. By Eminent Physicians and Surgeons. New and Revised Edition. Cloth, 21s. ; Roxburgh, 25s. Fenn, G. Manville, Works by. Boards, 2s. each; cloth, 2S. 6d. each. My Patients. Being the Notes The Parson o Dumford. of a Navy Surgeon. The Vicar’s People. \ In cloth Dutch the Diver. Sweet Mace. j only. Poverty Corner. Field Naturalist's Handbook, The. and Rev. Theodore Wood. 5s. By the Rev. J. G. Wood Figuier’s Popular Scientific Works. With Several Hundred Illustra- tions in each. 3s. 6d. each. The Human Race. I The Ocean World. Reptiles and Birds. | The Insect World. Mammalia. Fine-Art Library, The. Edited by John Sparkes, Principal of the South Kensington Art Schools. Each Book contains about 100 Illustrations. 5s. each. Engraving. Tapestry. The English School of Paint- The Education of the Artist. (N on-illustrated.) Greek Archaeology. ING. The Flemish School of Paint- ing. Artistic Anatomy. The Dutch School of Painting. Flora's Feast: a Masque of Flowers. With Coloured Designs by Walter Crane. 5s. Flower Painting in Water Colours. With Coloured Plates. First and Second Series. 5s. each. Flower Painting, Elementary. With Eight Coloured Plates. 3s. Flowers, and How to Paint Them. By Maud Naftel. With Coloured Plates. 5s. Forging of the Anchor, The. A Poem. By Sir Samuel Ferguson, LL.D. With 20 Original Illustrations. Gilt edges, 5s. Fossil Reptiles, A History of British. By Sir Richard Owen, K.C.B., F.R.S., &c. With 268 Plates. In Four Vols., £12 12s. France as It Is. By Andr£ Lebon and Paul Pelet. With Three Maps. Crown 8vo, cloth, 7s. 6d. Fresh-water Fishes of Europe, The. By Prof. H. G. Seeley, F.R.S. Cheap Edition. 7s. 6d. Garden Flowers, Familiar. By Shirley Hibberd. With Coloured Plates by F. E. Hulme, F.L.S. Complete in Five Series. 12s. 6d.each. Gardening, Cassell’s Popular. Illustrated. 4 vols., 5s. each. Gas, The Art of Cooking by. By Mrs. Sugg. Illustrated. Cloth, 3s. 6d. Gaudeamus. One Hundred Songs for Schools and Col’eges. Edited by John Farmer. 5s. Geometrical Drawing for Army Candidates. By H. T. Lilley, M.A. 2s. Geometry, First Elements of Experimental. By Paul Bert. is. 6d. Geometry, Practical Solid. By Major Ross. 2s. Germany, William of. By Archibald Forbes. Cloth, 3s. 6d. Gleanings from Popular Authors. Two Vols. With Original Ulus- trations. 4to, gs. each. Two Vols. in One, 15s. Great Painters of Christendom, The, from Cimabue to Wilkie. By John Forbes-Robertson. Illustrated throughout. 12s. 6d.Selections from Cassell Company's Publications. Gulliver’s Travels. With 88 Engravings by Morten. Cheap Edition. Cloth, 3s. 6d. ; cloth gilt, 5s. Gum Boughs and Wattle Bloom, Gathered on Australian Hills and Plains. By Donald Macdonald. 5s. Gun and its Development, The. By W. W. Greener. With 300 Illustrations. 10s. 6d. Guns, Modern Shot. By W. W. Greener. Illustrated. 5s. Health at School. By Clement Dukes, M.D., B.S. 7s. 6d. Health, The Book of. By Eminent Physicians and Surgeons. Cloth, 21s. ; Roxburgh, 25s. Health, The Influence of Clothing on. By F. Treves, F.R.G.S. as. Heavens, The Story of the. By Sir Robert Stawell Ball, LL. D , F.R.S., F.R.A.S. With Coloured Plates and Wood Engravings. 31s. 6d. Heroes of Britain in Peace and War. In Two Vols., with 300 Original Illustrations. 5s. each ; or One Vol., library binding, 10s. 6d. Holiday Studies of Wordsworth : by Rivers, Woods, and Alps. Tne Wharfe, The Duddon, and the Stelvio Pass. By the Rev. F. A. Malleson, M.A. 5s. Homes, Our, and How to Make them Healthy. By Eminent Authorities. Illustrated. 15s. Horse, The Book of the. By Samuel Sidney. With 28 Fac-simile Coloured Plates. Enlarged Edition. Demy4to, 35s.; half-morocco, 45s. Household, Cassell’s Book of the. Vols. I. and II., 5s. each. Household Guide, Cassell’s. Illustrated. Four Vols., 20s. How Women may Earn a Living. By Mercy Grogan. 6d. India, Cassell’s History of. By James Grant. With about 400 Illustrations. Library binding. One Vol. 15s. Irish Union, The; Before and After. By A. K. Connell, M.A. 2s. 6d. John Orlebar, Clk. By the Author of “ Culmshire Folk." 2s. John Parmelee’s Curse. By Julian Hawthorne. 2s. 6d. Karmel the Scout. A Novel. By Sylvanus Cobb, Junr. Cloth, 3s. Ed. Kennel Guide, The Practical. By Dr. Gordon Stables, is. Khiva, A Ride to. By Col. Fred. Burnaby, is. 6d. Kidnapped. By R. L. Stevenson. Illustrated Edition. 5s. King Solomon’s Mines. By H. Rider Haggard. Illustrated Edition. 5s. Ladies’ Physician, The. A Guide for Women in the Treatment of their Ailments. By a Physician. 6s. Lady Biddy Fane, The Admirable. By Frank Barrett. 5s. Landscape Painting in Oils, A Course of Lessons in. By A. F. Grace. With Nine Reproductions in Colour. Cheap Edition, 25s. Law, How to Avoid. By A. J. Williams, M.P. is. Cheap Edition. Legends for Lionel. By Walter Crane. Coloured Illustrations. 5s. Letts's Diaries and other Time-saving Publications arc now pub- lished exclusively by Cassell & Company. (A list free on application.) Life Assurance, Medical Handbook of. By James Edward Pol- lock, M.D., and James Chisholm. 7s. 6d. Local Government in England and Germany. By the Right Hon. Sir Robert Morier, G.C.B., &c. is. London (Ancient and Modern). From the Sanitary and Medical Point of View. By G. V. Poore, M.D., F.R.C.P. Illustrated. 5s. London, Greater. By Edward Walpord. Two Vols. With about 400 Illustrations, gs. each. London, Old and New. Six Vols., each containing about 200 Illustrations and Maps. Cloth, gs. each.Selections front Cassell $ Company's Publications. Longfellow’s Poetical Works. Illustrated, £33s-l Popular Edition, 16s. Master of Ballantrae, The. By Robert Louis Stevenson. 5s. Mechanics, The Practical Dictionary of. Containing 15,000 Draw- ings. Four Vols. 21s. each. Medicine, Manuals for Students of. (A List forwarded post free.) Metropolitan Year-Book, The. Paper, 2s. ; cloth, zs. 6d. Metzerott, Shoemaker. Cr. 8vo, 5s. Milton’s L’Allegro and II Penseroso. Fully Illustrated. Cloth, 2s,6d. Modern Europe, A History of. By C. A. Fyffe, M.A. Complete in Three Vols. 123. each. Music, Illustrated History of. By Emil Naumann. Edited by the Rev. Sir F. A. Gore Ouseley, Bart. Illustrated. Two Vols. 31s. 6d. National Library, Cassell’s. In Volumes, each containing about 192 pages. Paper covers, 3d.; cloth. 6d. (A Complete List of the Volumes mill be sent post free on application.) Natural History, Cassell’s Concise. By E. Perceval Wright, M.A., M.D., F.L.S. With several Hundred Illustrations. 7s. 6d. Natural History, Cassell’s New. Edited by Prof. P. Martin Duncan, M.B., F.R.S., F.G.S. Complete in Six Vols. With about 2.000 Illustrations. Cloth, gs. each. Nursing for the Home and for the Hospital, A Handbook of. By Catherine J. Wooo. Cheap Edition, is. 6d. ; cloth, 2s. Nursing of Sick Children, A Handbook for the. By Catherine J. Wood. 2s. 6d. Oil Painting, A Manual of. By the Hon. John Collier. 2s. 6d. Our Own Country. Six Vols. With 1,200 Illustrations. 7s. 6d. each. Painting, Practical Guides to. With Coloured Plates and full in- structions :— Marine Painting. 5s. Animal Painting. 5s. China Painting. 5s. Figure Painting. 7s. 6d. Elementary Flower ’Paint- ing. 3s. Flower Painting, Two Books, 5s. each. Tree Painting. 5s. Water-Colour Painting. 5s. Neutral Tint. 5s. Sepia, in Two Vols., 3s. each ; or in One Vol., 5s. Flowers, and How to Paint Them. 5s. Paxton’s Flower Garden. By Sir Joseph Paxton and Prof. Lindley. Three Vols. With 100 Coloured Plates. £1 is. each. People I’ve Smiled with. By Marshall P. Wilder. 2s.; cloth, 2s. 6d. Peoples of the World, The. In Six Vols. By Dr. Robert Brown. Illustrated. 7s. 6d. each. Phantom City, The. By W. Westall. 5s. Photography for Amateurs. By T. C. Hepworth. Illustrated, is.; or cloth, is. 6d. Phrase and Fable, Dictionary of. By the Rev. Dr. Brewer. Cheap Edition, Enlarged, cloth, 3s. 6d. ; or with leather back, 4s. 6d. Picturesque America. Complete in Four Vols., with 48 Exquisite Steel Plates and about 800 Original Wood Engravings. £2 2S. each. Picturesque Australasia, Cassell’s. With upwards of 250 Illustrations. Vol. I., 7s. 6d. Picturesque Canada. With 600 Original Illustrations. 2V0IS. £3 3s.each. Picturesque Europe. Complete in Five Vols. Each containing 13 Exquisite Steel Plates, from Original Drawings, and nearly 200 Original Illustrations. Original Edition. Cloth, £21; half-morocco, £31 ios. ; morocco gilt, £52 10s. The Popular Edition is published in hive Vols., 18s. each. Pigeon Keeper, The Practical. By Lewis Wright. Illustrated. 3s. 6d. Pigeons, The Book of. By Robert Fulton. Edited and Arranged by L. Wright. With 50 Coloured Plates, 31s. 6d.; half-morocco, £2 is.Selections from Cassell 4’ Company's Publications. Poets, Cassell’s Miniature Library of the :— Milton. Two Vols. as. 6d. Scott. Two Vc-ls. 2s. 6d. [2s. fid. Sheridan and Goldsmith. 2 VoN. Wordsworth. Two Vols. 2s. 6d. In 12 Vols., in Case, 12s. By C. E. Howarp Burns. Two Vols. 2s. 6d. Byron. Two Vols. 2s. 6d. Hood. Two Vols. 2s. 6d. Longfellow. Two Vols. as. 6d. Shakesfeare. Illustrated. Police Code, and Manual of the Criminal Law. Vincent, M.P. 2s. Polytechnic Series, The. Forty Lessons in Carpentry Workshop Practice. Cloth gilt, ts. Practical Plane and Solid Geometry, including Graphic Arithmetic. VoL I., Elementary Stage. Cloth gilt, 3s. Forty Lessons in Engineering Workshop Practice, is. 6d. Technical Scales. Set of Ten in cloth case, is. Elementary Chemistry for Science Schools and Classes. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. Pope and the New Era, The. Being Letters from the Vatican in 1889. By William T. Stead, Author of “ Truth about Russia." 6s. Popular Library, Cassell’s. Cloth, is. each. The Story of the English Jacobins. Domestic Folk Lore. The Rev. Rowland llill: Preacher and Wit. Boswell and Johnson : their Com* panions and Contemporaries. History of the Free-Trade Move- ment in England. By Lewis Wright. With Coloured The 'Russian Empire. The Religious Revolution in the 16th Century. English Journalism. Our Colonial Empire. The Young Mau in the Battle of Life. Poultry Keeper, The Practical. Plates and Illustrations. 3s. 6d. Poultry, The Book of. By Lewis Wright. Popular Edition. 10s. 6d. Poultry, The Illustrated Book of. By Lewis Wright. With Fifty Coloured Plates. Cloth, 31s. 6d. ; half-morocco, £2 2s. Pre-Raphaelites, The Italian, in the National Gallery. By Cosmo Monkhouse. Illustrated, is. Queen Victoria, The Life and Times of. By Robert Wilson. Com- plete in Two Vols. With numerous Illustrations, gs. each. Quiver, The. Yearly Volume. Illustrated. 7s. 6d. Rabbit-Keeper, The Practical. By Cuniculus. Illustrated. 3s. 6d. Railway Guides, Official Illustrated. With Illustrations, Maps, &c. Price is. each ; or in cloth, 2S. each. Great Northern Railway. Great Western Railway. Revised and Enlarged. London, Brighton and South Coast Railway. London and North-Western Railway. Revised ant Enlarged. London and South-Western Railway. Midland Railway. South-Eastern Railway. Railway Library, Cassell’s. Crown 8vo. boards, 2S. '"Gch. Under a Strange mask. By frank Barrett. THE COOMBSBERROW MYSTERY. By JAMES COLWALL. DEAD Man’s KOCK. By Q. a queer race. By w. westall. Captain Trafalgar. By Wesi all and LAURIE. The phantom City. By W. Westall. 7he above can also be obtained in cloth, os. 67. each. jack Gordon, knight Errant, Gotham, 18S3. By Barclay North. The diamond Button. By Barclay North. another’s crime. By Julian Haw- thorne. Richard, Henry, Rivers of Great Ti e yoke of the thorah. By SIDNEY LUSKA. Who is John Noman? By Charles HENRY BECKETT. The Tragedy of Brinkwater. By MARTHA L. MOODEY. An American Penman. By Julian Hawthorne. Section 558; or, the fatal Letter. By JULIAN HAWTHORNE. The Brown Stone Boy. By W. H. bishop. TRAGIC MYSTERY. By JULIAN HAWTHORNE The Great Bank robbery. By JULIAN HAWTHORNE. M.P. A Biography. By Charles1 S. Miall. 7s. 6d. Britain, The: Descriptive, Historical, PictoriaL Rivers of the East Coast. 42s.Selections from Cassell 4' Company s Publications. Rossetti, Dante Gabriel, as Designer and Writer. Notes by William Michael Rossetti. 7s. 6d. Royal River, The : The Thames, from Source to Sea. With Descrip- tive Text and a Series of beautiful Engravings. £2 2s. Russia. By Sir Donald Mackenzie Wallace, M.A. 5s. Russia, Truth About. By W. T. Stead. 8vo, cloth, 10s. 6d. Russo-Turkish War, Cassell’s History of. With about 500 Illus- trations. Two Vols., 9s. each. Red Library, Cassell’s. Stiff covers, is. each; cloth, 2s. each. Jane Eyre. Wuthering Heights. Dombey and Son ( Two Vols.). The Prairie. Night and Morning. Kenilworth. The Ingoldsby Le- gends. The Tower of London. The Pioneers. Charles O’Malley. Barnaby Budge. Cakes and Ale. The King’s Own. People I have Met. The Pathfinder. Evelina. 8cott’s Poems. Last of the Barons. Adventures of Mr. Ivanhoe. Oliver Twist. Selections from Hood’s Works. Longfellow’s Prose Works. Sense and Sensibility. Lytton’s Plays. Tales, Poems, and Sketches. Bret Harte. Martin Chuzzlewit (Two Vols.). The Prince of the House of David. Sheridan’s Plays. TJncle Tom’s Cabin. Deerslayer. Eugene Aram. Jack Hinton. Borne and the Early Christians. The Trials of Mar- garet Lyndsay. Poe’s Works. Old Mortality. The Hour and the Man. Handy Andy. Scarlet Letter. Pickwick (Two Vols.). Last of the Mohicans. Pride and Prejudice. Yellowplush Papers. Tales of the Borders. Last Days of Palmyra. Washington Irving's Sketch-Book. The Talisman. Bienzi. Old Curiosity Shop. Heart of Midlothian. Last Days of Pompeii. American Humour. Sketches by Boz. Macaulay’s Lays and Essays. Harry Lorrequer. Ledbury. St. Cuthbert’s Tower. By Florence Warden. Cheap Edition. 5s. Salads : the best Salad Plants, and the best ways of Mixing a Salad. By Henry F. Moore and M. Vilmorin. Cr. 8vo, is. 6d. Saturday Journal, Cassell’s. Yearly Volume, cloth, 7s. 6d. Science for All. Edited by Dr. Robert Brown. Revised Edition. Illustrated. Five Vols. gs. each. Scouting for Stanley in East Africa : a Record of the Adventures of Thomas Stevens in Search of H. M. Stanley. With 14 Illus- trations. Cloth, 7s. 6d. Sculpture, A Primer of. By E.Roscoe Mullins. With Illustrations. 2s.6d. Sea, The: Its Stirring Story of Adventure, Peril, and Heroism. By F. Whymper. With 400 Illustrations. Four Vols., 7s. 6d. each. Secret cf the Lamas, The. A Tale of Thibet. Crown 8vo, 5s. Shaftesbury, The Seventh Earl of, K.G., The Life and Work of. By Edwin Hodder. Three Vols., 36s. Popular Ediiion) One Vol., 7s. 6d. Shakespeare, The Plays of. Edited by Professor Henry Morley. Complete in 13 Vols., cloth, 21s. Shakespeare, Cassell’s Quarto Edition. Co itaining about 600 Illus- trations by H. C. Selous. Complete in Three Vols., cloth gilt, £3 3s. Shakespeare, Miniature. Illustrated. In Twelve Vols., in box, 12s.; or in Red Paste Grain (box to match), with spring catch, 21s. Shakespeare, The England of. By E. Go ad by. Illustrated. 2s. 6d. Shakspere, The International. Jtdition de Luxe. “KING HENRY- IV.” Illustrated by Eduard GrOtzner, £3 10s. “AS YOU LIKE IT.” Illustrated by 6m ile Bayard, £3’ios. ROMEO AND JULIET.” Illustrated by F. Dicksee, A. R. A., £553. Shakspere, The Leopold. With 400 Illustrations. Cheap Edition. 3s. 6d. Cloth gilt, 6s. ; Roxburgh, 7s. 6d. Shakspere, The Royal. With Steel Plates and Wood Engravings. Three Vols. 15s. each. Sketching from Nature in Water Colours. By Aaron Penlby, With Illustrations in Chromo-Lithography. 15s. Social Welfare, Subjects of. By the Rt. Hon. Sir Lyon Playfair, 7s. 6d. K.C.B.Selections from Cassell $ Company's Publications. CASSELL & COMPANY, Limited, Lud^att Hill, London. Splendid Spur, The. Edited by Q. 5s. Sports and Pastimes, Cassell’s Complete Book of. Ckea/> Edition. With more than 90a Illustrations. Medium 8vo, 992 pages, cloth, 3s. 6d. Star-Land. By Sir Rodert Stawell Ball, LL.D., F.R.S., F.R.A.S. Illustrated. Crown 8vo, 6s. Steam Engine, The. By W. H. Northcott, C.E. 3s. 6d. Strange Doings in Strange Places. Complete Sensational Stories by Frank Barrett, “Q,” G. Manville Fenn, &c. &c. Cr. 8vo, 5s. Technical Education. By F. C. Montague. 6d. Thackeray, Character Sketches from. Six New and Original Draw- ings by Frederick Barnard, reproduced in Photogravure. 21s. Treasure Island. By R. L. Stevenson. Illustrated. 5s. Trees, Familiar. By G. S. Boulger, F.L.S. Two Series. With 40 full-page Coloured Plates by W. H. J. Boot. 12s. 6d. each. Troy Town, The Astonishing History of. By Q. 5s. Two Women or One ? From the Manuscripts of Doctor Leonard Benarv. By Henry Harland. is. "Unicode”: the Universal Telegraphic Phrase Book. Desk or Pocket Edition. 2s. 6d. United States, Cassell’s History of the. By the late Edmund Ollier. With 600 Illustrations. Three Vols. gs. each. United States, Youth's History of the. Illustrated. 4 Volumes. 36s. Universal History, Cassell’s Illustrated. Four Vols. os. each. Verdict, The. A Tract on the Political Significance of the Report of the Parnell Commission. By Prof. A. V. Dicey, Q.C. 2s. 6d. Vicar of Wakefield and other Works by Oliver Goldsmith. Illustrated. 3s. 6d.; cloth, gilt edges, 5s. What Girls Can Do. By Phyllis Browne. 2s. 6d. Wild Birds, Familiar. By W. Swaysland. Four Series. With 40 Coloured Plates in each. 12s. 6d. each. Wild Flowers, Familiar. By F. E. Hulme, F L.S., F.S.A. Five Series. With 40 Coloured Plates in each. 12s. 6d. each. Woman's World, The. Yearly Volume. 18s. Wood, Rev. J. G., Life of the. By the Rev. Theodore Wood. Demy 8vo, cloth, price 10s. 6d. Work. An Illustrated Magazine of Practice and Theory for all Work- men, Proressional and Amateur. Yearly Vol., 7s. 6d. World of Wit and Humour, The. With 400 Illustrations. Cloth, 7s. 6d. ; cloth gilt, gilt edges, 10s. 6d. World of Wonders. Two Vols. With 400 Illustrations. 7s. 6d. each. Yule Tide. Cassell's Christmas Annual, is. IL LUSTRA TED MA GA SINES. The Quiver. Enlarged Series. Monthly, 6d. Cassell’s Family Magazine. Monthly, 7d. " Little Folks” Magazine. Monthly, 6d. The Magazine of Art. Monthly, is. The Woman’s World. Monthly, is. Cassell’s Saturday •Tournal. Weekly, id.; Monthly, 6d. T Fork. Weekly, id.; Monthly, 6d. Catalogues of Cassell & Company's Publications, which may tie had at all booksellers', or will be sent post free on application to the Publishers Cassell’s COMPLETE catalogue, containing particulars of upwards of One Thousand Volumes. CASSELL'S CLASSIFIED CATALOGUE, in which their Works are arranged a cording to price, from Th eeptnee to Fifty Guineas. Cassell's Educational Catalogue, containing particulars of CAS ell & COMPANY’S Educational Woiks and Students' Manuals.Selections from Cassell Company s Publications. ISiblcs unit llcligious ttfCtorks. Bible, Cassell’s Illustrated Family. With goo Illustrations. Leather, gilt edges, £2 10s. Bible Dictionary, Cassell’s. With nearly 600 Illustrations. 7s. 6d. Bible Educator, The. Edited by the Very Rev. Dean Plumptre, D.D., W’ells. With Illustrations, Maps, &c. Four Vols., cloth, 6s. each. Bible Student in the British Museum, The. By the Rev. J. G. Kitchin, M.A. is. Biblewomen and Nurses. Yearly Volume. Illustrated. 3s. Bunyan’s Pilgrim’s Progress (Cassell’s Illustrated). 4to. 7s. 6d. Bunyan’s Pilgrim’s Progress. With Illustrations. Cloth, 3s. 6d. Child’s Bible, The. With 200 Illustrations. 150th Thousand. 7s. 6d. Child’s Life of Christ, The. With 200 Illustrations. 7s. 6d. “Come, ye Children.” Illustrated. By Rev. Benjamin Waugh. 53. Dore Bible. With 238 Illustrations by Gustave Dor6. Small folio, cloth, £8 ; best morocco, gilt edges, £15. Early Days of Christianity, The. By the Ven. Archdeacon Farrar, D.D., F.R.S. Library Edition. Two Vols., 24s. ; morocco, £2 2s. Popular Edition. Complete in One Volume, cloth, 6s.; cloth, gill edges, 7s. 6d.; Persian morocco, 10s. 6d.; tree-calf, 15s. Family Prayer-Book, The. Edited by Rev. Canon Garbett, M.A., and Rev. S. Martin. Extra crown 4to, cloth, 5s. ; morocco, 18s. Glories of the Man of Sorrows, The. Sermons preached at St. James's, Piccadilly. By Rev. H. G. Bonavia Hunt, Mus.D., F.R.S.,Ed. 2s.6d. “ Heart Chords.” A Series of Works by Eminent Divines. Bound in cloth, red edges, One Shilling each. MY BIBLE. By the Right Rev. \V. BOYD Carpenter, Bishop ofRipon. MY Father. By the Right Rev. ASH- TON OXENDEN, late Bishop of Mon- treal. My Work for God. By the Right Rev. Bishop COTTERILL. MY OBJECT IN LIFE. By the Vcn. Archdeacon FARRAR, D.D. MY ASPIRATIONS. By the Rev. G. MATHESON, D.D. MY EMOTIONAL Life. By the Rev. Preb. CHADWICK D.D. MY BODY. By the Rev. Prof. W. G. BLAIKIE, D.D. MY Growth in Divine Life. By the Rev. Preb. REYNOLDS, M.A. MY SOUL. By the Rev. P. B. POWER, M.A. MY Hereafter. Bv the Very Rev. Dean SICKERSTETH. My Walk with God. By the Very Rev. Dean MONTGOMERY. My Aids to the Divinf. Life. By the Very Rev. Dean BOYLE. MY SOURCES OF STRENGTH. By the Rev. E. E. JENKINS, M.A., Secretary of Wesleyan Missionary Society. Helps to Belief. A Series of Helpful Manuals on the Religious Difficulties of the Day. Edited by the Rev. Teignmouth Shore, M.A., Chaplain-in-Ordinary to the Queen. Cloth, is. each. Creation. By the Lord Bishop of Carlisle. The Divinity of our Lord. By the Lord Bishop of Derrv. The Morality of the Old Testa- ment. By the Rev. Newman Smyth, D.D. Miracles. By the Rev. Brownlow Maitland, M.A. PRAYER. By the Rev. T. Teignmouth Shore, M.A. THE ATONEMENT. By the Lord Bishop of Peterborough. Holy Land and the Bible, The. By the Rev. Cunningham Gkikie, D.D. Two Vols , with Map, 24s. “ I Must." Short Missionary Bible Readings. By Sophia M. Nugent. Enamelled covers, 6d. ; cloth, gilt edges, is. S B. 6.90Selections from Cassell If Company's Publications. Life of Christ, The. By the Ven. Archdeacon Farrar, D.D., F.R.S. Illustrated Edition, with about 300 Original Illustrations. Extra crown 4to, doth, gilt edges, 21s. ; morocco antique, 42s. Library Edition. Two Vols. Cloth, 24s.; morocco, 42s. Popular Edition, in One Vol. 8vo, cloth, 6s. ; cloth, gilt edges, 7s. 6d.; Persian morocco, gilt edges, 10s. 6d. ; tree calf, 15s. Marriage Ring, The. By William Landels, D. D. New and Cheaper Edition. 3s. 6d. Moses and Geology ; or, The Harmony of the Bible with Science. By the Rev. Samuel Kinns, Ph.D., F.R.A.S. Illustrated. Cheap Edition, 6s. New Testament Commentary for English Readers, The. Edited by the Rt. Rev. C. J. Ellicott, D.D., Lord Bishop of Gloucester and Bristol. In Three Volumes, 21s. each. Vol. I.—The Four Gospels. Vol. II.—The Acts, Romans, Corinthians, Galatians. Vol. III.—The remaining Books of the New Testament. New Testament Commentary. Edited by Bishop Ellicott. Handy Volume Edition. St. Matthew, 3s. 6d. St. Mark, 3s. St. Luke, 3s. 6d. St. John, 3s. 6d. The Acts of the Apostles, 3s. 6d. Romans, 2s. 6d. Corinthians I. and II., 3s. Galatians, Ephesians, and Philip— pians, 3s. Coiossians, Thessalonians, and Timothy, 3s. Titus, Philemon, Hebrews, and James, 3s. Peter, Jude, and John, 3s. The Revelation, 3s. An Introduction to the New Testament, 3s. 6d. Old Testament Commentary for English Readers, The. Edited by the Right Rev. C. J. Ellicott, D.D., Lord Bishop of Gloucester and Bristol. Complete in 5 Vols., 21s. each. Vol. I.—Genesis to Numbers. Vol. III.—Kings I. to Esther. Vol. II. — Deuteronomy to Vol. IV.—Job to Isaiah. Samuel II. Vol. V. —Jeremiah to Malachi. Old Testament Commentary. Edited by Bishop Ellicott. Handy Volume Edition. Genesis, 3s. 6d. Exodus, 3s. Leviticus, 3s. Numbers, 2s. 6d. Deuteronomy, 2s. 6d. Protestantism, The History of. By the Rev. J. A. Wylie, LL.D. Containing upwards of 600 Original Illustrations. Three Vols., 9s. each. Quiver Yearly Volume, The. 250 high-class Illustrations. 7s. 6d. Religion, The Dictionary of. By the Rev. W. Benham, B.D. 21s.; Roxburgh, 25s. St. George for England ; and other Sermons preached to Children. By the Rev. T. Teignmouth Shore, M.A. 5s. St. Paul, The Life and Work of. By the Veil. Ar^.deacon Farrar, D.D., F.R.S., Chaplain-in-Ordinary to the Queen. Library Edition. Two Vols., cloth, 24s. ; calf, 42s. Illustrated Edition, complete in One Volume, with about 300 Illustrations, £1 is. ; morocco, £2 2s. Popular Edition. One Volume, 8vo, cloth, 6s.; cloth, gilt edges, 7s. 6d. ; Persian morocco, 10s. 6d. ; tree-calf, 15s. Secular Life, The Gospel of the. Sermons preached at Oxford. By the Hon. Canon Fremantle. Cheaper Edition. 2s. 6d. Shall We Know One Another ? By the Rt. Rev. J. C. Ryle, D.D., Bishop of Liverpool. New and Enlarged Edition. Cloth limp, is. Stromata. By the Ven. Archdeacon Shkrincham, M.A. 2s. 6d. "Sunday,” Its Origin, History, and Present Obligation. By the Ven. Archdeacon Hessey, D.C.L. Fi/th Edition. 7s. 6d. Twilight of LTe, The. Words of Counsel and Comfort for the Aged. By the Rev. John Ellerton, M.A. is. 6d. Voice of Time, The. By John Stroud. Cloth gilt, is.Selections from Cassell § Company's Publications. flcimcatimml Morks auk Stubcnts’ iHitmmls. Alphabet, Cassell’s Pictotial. 3s. 6d. Arithmetics, The Modern School. By George Ricks, B.Sc. Lond. With Test Cards. (List on application.) Book-Keeping. By Theodore Jones. For Schools, 2s.; cloth, 3s. For the Million, 2s. ; cloth, 3s. Books for Jones’s System. 2s. Chemistry, The Public School. By J. H. Anderson, M.A. 2S. 6d. Copy-Books, Cassell’s Graduated. Eighteen Books. 2d. each. Copy-Books, The Modern School. Twelve Books. 2d. each. Drawing Copies, Cassell’s Modern School Freehand. First Grade, is. ; Second Grade, 2s. Drawing Copies, Cassell’s “New Standard.” Fourteen Books. Books A to F for Standards I. to IV., 2d each. Books G, H, K, L, M, O, for Standards V. to VII., 3d. each. Books N and P, 4d. each. Electricity, Practical. By Prof. W. E. Ayrton. 7s. 6d. Energy and Motion. By William Paice, M.A. Illustrated, is. 6d. English Literature, First Sketch of, New and Enlarged Edition. By Prof. Morley. 7s. 6d. English Literature, The Story of. By Anna Buckland. 3s. 6d, Euclid, Cassell’s. Edited by Prof. Wallace, M.A. is. Euclid, The First Four Books of. In paper, 6d.; cloth, gd. Experimental Geometry. By Paul Bert. Illustrated, is. 6d. French, Cassell’s Lessons in. New and Revised Edition. Parts I. and II., each 2S. 6d. ; complete, 4s. 6d. Key, is. 6d. French-English and English-French Dictionary. Entirely New and Enlarged Edition. 1,150 pages, 8vo, cloth, 3s. 6d. French Reader, Cassell’s Public School. By G. S. Conrad. 2s. 6d. Galbraith and Haughton’s Scientific Manuals. By the Rev. Prof. Galbraith, M.A., and the Rev. Prof. Haughton, M.D., D.C.L. Plane Trigonometry, 2s. 6d.—Euclid, Books I., II., III., 2S. 6d.—Books IV., V., VI., 2S. 6d.—Mathematical Tables, 3s. 6d.—Mechanics, 3s. 6d. —Natural Philosophy, 3s. 6d.—Optics, 2S. 6d.—Hydrostatics, 3s. 6d.— Astronomy, 5s.—Steam Engine, 3s. 6d.—Algebra. Part 1., cloth, 2S. 6d.; Complete, 7s. 6d.—Tides and Tidal Currents, with Tidal Cards, 3s. German Dictionary, Cassell's New. German-English, English- German. Cloth, 7s. 6d. ; half-morocco, gs. German of To-Day. By Dr. Heinemann. is. 6d. German Reading, First Lessons in. By A. Jagst. Illustrated, is. Hand-and-Eye Training. By G. Ricks, B.Sc. Two Vols., with 16 Coloured Plates in each Vol. Crown 4to, 6s. each. Handbook of New Code of Regulations. New and Revised Edition. By John F. Moss. is. ; cloth, 2s. Historical Cartoons, Cassell’s Coloured. Size 45 in. x 35 in., 2S. each. Mounted on canvas and varnished, with rollers, 5s. each. Historical Course for Schools, Cassell’s. Illustrated throughout. I.—Stories from English History, is. II.—The Simple Outline of English History, is. 3d. III.—The Class History of England, 2s. 6d. Horati Opera. With Preface, Conspectus Metrorum, Index Nominum et Rerum Memorabilium, and Critical Notes. 3s. Homer, The Iliad of. Complete Text. With a Preface and Summary. Two Vols. Vol. I., 3s. ; Vol. II., 3s. 6d. Latin-English and English-Latin Dictionary. By J. R. Beard, D.D., and C. Beard, B.A. Crown 8vo, 914 pp., 3s. 6d. Latin-English Dictionary, Cassell’s. By J. R. V. Makciiant, 3s. 6d.Selections from Cassell ($■ Company's Publications. CASSELL & COMPANY, Limited, Ludgate Hill, London. Latin Primer, The First. By Prof. Postgate. is. Latin Primer, The New. By Prof. J. P. Postgate. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Latin Prose for Lower Forms. By M. A. Bayfield, M.A. 2s. 6d. Laws of Every-Day Life. By H. O. Arnold-Forster. is. 6d. Little Folks’ History of England. Illustrated, is. 6d. Making of the Home, The : A Book of Domestic Economy for School and Home Use. By Mrs. Samuel A. Barnet r. is. 6d. Marlborough Books:—Arithmetic Examples, 3s. Arithmetic Rules, is. 6d. French Exercises, 3s. 6d. French Grammar, 2s. 6d. German do., 3s. 6d. Mechanics and Machine Design, Numerical Examples in Practical. By R. G. Blaine, M.E. With Diagrams. Cloth, zs. 6d. “Model Joint" Wall Sheets, for Instruction in Manual Training. By S. Barter. Eight Sheets, 2s. 6d. each. Music, An Elementary Manual of. By Henry Leslie, is. Object Lessons from Nature. By Prof. L. C. Miall, F.L.S. 2s. 6d. Popular Educator, Cassell’s NEW. With Revised Text, New Maps, New Coloured Plates, New Type, &c. To be completed in 8 Vols. 5s.each. Popular Educator, Cassell’s. Complete in Six Vols., 5s. each. Readers, Cassell’s “Higher Class.” (List on application.) Readers, Cassell’s Historical. Illustrated throughout, printed on superior paper, and strongly bound in cloth. (List on application.) Readers, Cassell’s Readable. Carefully graduated, extremely in- teresting, and illustrated throughout. (List on application.) Readers for Inlant Schools, Coloured. Three Books. 4d. each. Reader, The Citizen. By H. O. Arnold-Forster. Illustrated. is.6d. Reader, The Temperance. By Rev. J. Dennis Hird. Cr. 8vo. is. 6d. Readers, The “ Modern School” Geographical. (List on application.) Readers, The “Modern School.” Illustrated. (List on application.) Reckoning, Howard’s Anglo-American Art of. By C. Frusher Howard. Paper covers, is. ; cloth, 2s. Science Applied to Work. ByJ.A. Bower, is. Science of Everyday Life. By John A. Bower. Illustrated, is. Shakspere’s Plays for School Use. 5 Books. Illustrated, 6d. each. Shakspere Reading Book, The. Illustrated. 3s. 6d. Spelling, A Complete Manual of. By J. D. Morell, LL.D. is. Technical Manuals, Cassell's. Illustrated throughout:— Handrailing and Staircasing, 3s. 6d.—Bricklayers, Drawing for, 3s.— Building Construction, 2s. —Cabinet-Makers, Drawing for, 3s.—Car- penters and Joiners, Drawing for, 3s. 6d.—Gothic Stonework, 3s. —Linear Drawing and Practical Geometry, 2s.—Linear Drawing and Projection. The Two Vols. in One, 3s. 6d.—Machinists and Engineers, Drawing for, 4s. 6d.—Metal-Plate Workers, Drawing for, 3s.—Model Drawing, 3s.—Orthographical and Isometrical Projection, 2S.—Practical Perspective, 3s.—Stonemasons, Drawing for, 3s.—Applied Mechanics, by Sir R. S. Ball, LL.D., 2s.—Systematic Drawing and Shading, 2S. Technical Educator, Cassell’s. Revised Edition. Four Vols., 5s. each. Technology, Manuals of. Edited by Prof. Ayrton, F. R.S., and Richard Wormell, D.Sc., M.A. Illustrated throughout The Dyeing of Textile Fabrics, by Prof. Hummel, 5s.—Watch and Clock Making, by D. Glasgow. 4s. 6d.—Steel and Iron, by Prof. W. H. Greenwood, F.C.S., M.I.C.E., &c., 5s.—Spinning Woollen and Worsted, by W. S. B. McLaren, M.P., 4s. 6d.—Design in Textilo Fabrics, by T. R. Ashenhurst, 4s. 6d.—Practical Mechanics, by Prof. Perry, M.E., 3s. 6d.—Cutting Tools Worked by Hand and Machine, by Prof. Smith, 3s. 6d. A Prospectus on application. Test Cards, Cassell's Combination. In sets, is. each. Test Cards, “ Modern School,” Cassell’s. In Sets, is. each.Selections from Cassell # Company's Publications. §0oks for fbuttrj people. “Little Folks” Half-Yearly Volume. Containing 432 4to pages, with about 200 Illustrations, and Pictures in Colour. Boards, 3s.6d.; cloth, 5s. Bo-Peep. A Book for the Little Ones. With Original Stories and Verses. Illustrated throughout. Yearly Volume. Boards, 2S. 6d. ; cloth, 3s. 6d. Cassell’s Picto ial Scrap Book, containing several thousand Pictures beautifully printed and handsomely bound in one large volume. Coloured boards, 15s. ; cloth lettered', 21s. Also in Six Sectional Vols., 3s. 6d. each. Flora’s Feast. A Masque of Flowers. Penned and Pictured by Walter Crane. With 40 Pages in Colours. 5s. Legends for Lionel. With 40 Illustrations in Colour, by Walter Crane. 5s. Little Mother Bunch. By Mrs. Molesworth. Illustrated. Cloth, 3s. 6d. The New Children’s Album. Fcap. 4to, 320 pages. Illustrated throughout. 3s. 6d. The Tales of the Sixty Mandarins. By P. V. Ramaswami Raju. With an Introduction by Prof. Henry Morley. Illustrated. 5s. Books for Young People. Illustrated. Cloth gilt, 5s. each. The King’s Command: A Story for Girls, by Maggie Symington. Under Bayard’s banuer. By Henry Frith. The Romance of Invention. By James Burnley. The Champion of Odin: or. Viking Life in the Days or Old. By J. Fred. Hodgetts. Bound by a Spell; or. The Hunted Witch of the Forest. By the Hon. Mrs. Greene. Books for Young People. Illustrated. Price 3s. 6d. each. Pclly: A New-Fashioned Girl. By L. T. Meade. For Fortune and Glory: A Story ot the Soudan War. By Lewis Hough. “ Follow My Leader.” By Talbot Baines Reed. [Pitt. The Cost of a Mistake. By Sarah A World of Girls: The Story of a School. By L. T. Meade. Lost among White Africans. By David Ker. The Palace Beautiful. By L. T. Meade. Freedom’s Sword: A Story of the Days of Wallace and Bruce. By Annie S. Swan. On Board the “Esmeralda.” By JohnC. Hutcheson. In Quest of Gold. By A. St. Johnston. For Queen and King. By Henry Frith. Perils Afloat and Brigands Ashore. By Allred Elwes. Books for Young People. Price Heroes of Every-day Life. By Laura Lane. Illustrated. Decisive Events in History. By Thomas Archer. With Original Illustrations. The True Rob;nson Crusoes. Peeps Abroad for Folks at Home. Illustrated. The “Cross and Crown” Series. 2s. 6d. each. Strong to Suffer: A Story of the Jews. By E. Wynne. Heroes of the Indian Empire; or, Stories of Valour and Victory. By Ernest Foster. In Letters of Flame : A Story of the WaldenBes. By C. L. Matlaux. Through Trial to Triumph. By . Madeline B. Hunt. 2s. 6d. each. Early Explorers. By Thomas Frost. Heme Chat with our Y ung Folks. Illustrated throughout. Jungle, Peak, ana Plain. Illustrated throughout. The World's Lumber-Room. By Selina Gaye. With Illustrations in each Book. By Fire and Sword: A Story of the Huguenots. By Thomas Archer. Adam Hepburn’s Vow: A Tale of Kirk and Covenant. By Annie S. Swan. No. XIII.; or. The Story of the Lost Vestal. A Tale of Early Christian Days. By Emma Mar- shall.Selections from Cassell cf' Company's Publications. 44 Golden Mottoes” Series, The. Each Book containing 208 pages, with Four full-page Original Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 2s. each. “ Nil Desperandum.” By the Rev. F. Langbridgc, M.A. “Bear and Forbear.” By Sarah Pitt. “Foremost if I Can.” By Helen Attcridge. “Honour is my Guide.” By Jcanic He ring (Mrs. Adams-Acton). “ Aim at a Sure End.” By Emily Searchfield. “He Conquers who Endures.” By the Author of “May Cunninghams Trial," Ac. Books for Children. In Illuminated boards, fully Illustrated. Twilight Fancies. 2s. 6d. 1 A Dozen and One. 6s. Cheerful Clatter. 3s. 6d. 1 Bible Talks. 5s. Cassell’s Picture Story Books. Each containing Sixty Pages of Pictures and Stories, &c. 6d. each. Little Talks. Bright Stars. Nursery Toys. Pet's Posy. Tiny Tales. Daisy’s Story Book. Dot’s Story Book. A Nest of Stories. G-ood-Night Stories. Chats for Small Chatterers. Auntie’s Stori03. Birdie’s Story Book. Little Chimes. A Sheaf of Tales. Dewdrop Stories. Cassell’s Sixpenny Story Books. All Illustrated, and containing Interesting Stories by well-known writers. The Smuggler’s Cave. Little Lizzie. Little Bird, Life and Adven- tures of. Luke Barnicott. The Boat Club. Little Pickles. The Elchester College Boys. My First Cruise. The Little Peacemaker. The Delft Jug. Cassell’s Shilling Story Books, ing Stories. Bunty and the Boys. The Heir of Elmdale. The Mystery at Shonclift School. Claimed at Last, and Boy’s Beward. Thorns and Tangles. The Cuckoo in the Bobin’s Nest. John’s Mistake. The History of Five Little Pitchers. Diamonds in the Sand. All Illustrated, and containing Interest- Surly Bob. The Giant’s Cradle. Shag and Doll. Aunt Lucia’s Locket. The Magic Mirror. The Cost of Bevenge. Clever Frank. Among the Bedskins. The Ferryman of Brill. Harry Maxwell. A Banished Monarch. Seventeen Cats. Ones. Containing interesting Stories, is. each ; cloth gilt, is. 6d. Illustrated Books for the Little All Illustrated. Scrambles and Scrapes. Tittle Tattle Tales. Up and Down the Garden. All Sorts of Adventures. Our Sunday Stories. Our Holiday Hours. Indoors and Out. Some Farm Friends. Wandering Ways. Dumb Friends. Those Golden Sands. Little Mothers & their Children. Our Prettv Pets. Our Schoolday Hours. CreatureB Tame. Creatures Wild. Albums for Children. Price 3s. 6d. each. The New Children’s Album. Illustrated throughout. Cloth The Album for Home, 8chool, ano Play. Containing Stories by Popular Authors. Set in bol 1 type, and Illustr te.i throughout. My Own Album of Animals. With Full-page Illustrations. Pioturc Album of All Sorts. With Full-page Illustrations The Chit-Chat Album. Illustrated throughoutSelections from Cassell § Company's Publications. The World’s Workers. A Series of New and Original Volilmes. With Portraits printed on a tint as Frontispiece, is. each. Dr. Arnold of Rugby. By Rose E. Selfe. The Earl of Shaftesbury. By Henry Frith. Sarah Robinson, Agnes Wes- ton, and Mrs. Meredith. By E. M. Tomkinson. Thomas A. Edison and Samuel F. B. Morse. By Dr. Denslow and J. Marsh Parker. Mrs. Somerville and Mary Car- penter. By Phyllis Browne. General Gordon. By the Rev. S. A. Swaine. Charles Dickens. By his Eldest Daughter. Sir Titus Salt and George Moore. ByJ. Burnley. David Livingstone. By Robert Smiles. Library of Wonders. Illustrated cloth, is. 6d. Wonderful Adventures. Wonders of Animal Instinct. Wonderful Balloon Ascents. Florence Nightingale, Catherine Marsh, Frances Ridley Haver- gal, Mrs. Ranyard ("L.N.R.’O. By Lizzie Alldridge. Dr. Guthrie, Father Mathew, Elihu Burritt, George Livesey. Byjohn W. Kirton, LL.D. Sir Henry Havelock and Colin Campbell Lord Clyde. By E. C. Phillips. Abraham Lincoln. By Ernest Foster. George Muller and Andrew Reed. By E. R. Pitman. Richard Cobden. By R. Gowing. Benjamin Franklin. By E. M. Tomkinson. Handel. By Eliza Clarke. [Swaine. Turner the Artist. By the Rev. S. A. George and Robert Stephenson. By C. L. MatGaux. Gift-books for Boys. Paper, is.; Wonders of Bodily Strength and Skill. Wonderlul Escapes. Cassell’s Eighteenpenny Story Books. Illustrated. Wee Willie Winkie. Dps and Downs of a Donkey’s Life. Three Wee Dlster Lassies. Sp the Ladder. Dick’s Hero; and other Stories. The Chip Boy. Haggles, Baggies, and the Emperor. Roses from Thorns. Faith s Father. By Land and Sea. The Young Berringtons. Jeff and Leff. Tom Morris’s Error. Worth more than Gold. “Through Flood—Through Fire; *' and other Stories. The Girl with the Golden Looks. Stories of the Olden Time. Gift Books for Young People. Original Illustrations in each. The Boy Hunters of Kentucky. By Edward S. Ellis. Red Feather: a Tale of the American Frontier. By Edward S. Ellis. Seeking a City. Rhoda’s Reward; or. “If Wishes were Horses.’* Jack Marston’s Anchor. Frank’s Life-Battle; or. The Three Friends. Fritters. By Sarah Pitt. The Two Hardcastles. By Made- line Bonavia Hunt. By Popular Authors. With Four Cloth gilt, is. 6d. each. Major Monk’s Motto. By the Rev. F. Langbridge. Trixy. By Maggie Symington. Rags and Rainbows: A Story of Thanksgiving. Dnele William’s Charges; or. The Broken Trust. Pretty Pink’s Purpose; or. The Little Street Merchants. Tim Thomson's Trial. By George Weatherly. Ursula’s Stumbling-Block. By Julia Goddard. Ruth’s Life-Work. By the Rev. Joseph Johnson. Cassell’s Two-Shilling Story Books. Illustrated. Stories of the Tower. Mr. Burke’s Nieces. May Cunningham’s Trial. The Top of the Ladder: How to Little Flotsam. [Reach it. Madge and Her Friends. The Children of the Court. A Moonbeam Tangle. Maid Marjory. Peggy, and other Tales. Books for Boys. ShiP8» Sailors, and the Sea. By R. J. Cornewall-Jones. Illus- trated. 5s. The Four Cats of the Tippertons. Marion’s Two Homes. Little Folks’ Sunday Book. Two Fourpenny Bits. Poor Nelly. Tom Henot. Through Peril to Fortune. Aunt Tabitha’s Waifa. In Misehiet Again. School Girls. Famous Sailors of Former Times. By Clements Markham. Illustrated.Selections from Cassell iL- Company's Publication. CASSELL & COMPANY, Limited, L tide ate Hill, London. The “Deerfoot” Series. By Edward S. Ellis. With Four full-page Illustrations in each Book. Cloth, bevelled boards, 2s. 6d. each. The Hunters or the Ozark. | The Camp In the Mountains. The Last War Trail. The “Log Cabin” Series. By Edward S. Ellis. With Four Full- page Illustrations in each. Crown 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d. each. The Lost Trail. | Camp-Firo and Wigwam. Footprints in the Forest. The “Great River” Series. By Edward S. Ellis. Illustrated. Crown 8vo, cloth, bevelled boards, 2s. 6d. each. Down the Mississippi. | Lost in the Wilds. Up the Tapajos; or, Adventures in Brazil. The “ Boy Pioneer” Series. By Edward S. Ellis. With Four Full- page illustrations in each Book. Crown 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d. each. Ned in the Woods. A Tale of I Ned on the River. A Tale of Indian Early Days in the West. | River Warfare. Ned in the Block House. A Story of Pioneer Life in Kentucky. The “World in Pictures. A Ramble Round France. All the RussiaB. ChatB about Germany. The Land of the Pyramids (Egypt). Illustrated throughout. 2s. 6d. each. The Eastern Wonderland (Japan). Glimpses of South America. Round Africa. The Land of Temples (India). The Isles of the Pacific. Peeps into China. Half-Crown Story Books. Little Hinges. Margaret’s Enemy. Pen’s Perplexities. Notable Shipwrecks. Golden Days. Wonders of Common Things. Truth will Out. At the South Pole. Three-and-Sixpenny Library trated and bound in cloth gilt. The Three Homes. Deeodal? Vicarage. In Duty Bound. The Half Sisters. Peggy Oglivie’s Inheritance. The Family Honour. Books for the Little Ones. The Merry-go-Round. Poems for Children. Illustrated. 5s. Rhymes for the Young Folk. By William Allingham. Beautifully Illustrated. 3s. 6d. The Little Doings of some Little Folks. By Chatty Cheer- ful. Illustrated. 5s. The Sunday Scrap Book. With One Thousand Scripture Pictures. Boards, 5s.; cloth, 7s. 0d. Soldier and Patriot (George Wash- ington). Picture of School Life and Boy- hood. The Young Man in the Battle of Life. By the Rev. Dr. Landcls. The True Glory of W Oman. By the Rev. Dr. Lana els. of Standard Tales, &c. All Illus- Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d. each. Esther West. Working to Win. Krilof and his Fables. By W. R. S. Ralston, M.A. Fairy Tales. By Prof. Morley. The History Scrap Book: With nearly i,ooo Engravings. 6s.; cloth, 7s. 6d. little Folks’ Picture Album. With 168 Large Pictures. 5s. The Old P’airy Tales. With Original Illustrations. Boards, Is.; cl., Is. bd. My Diary. With 12 Coloured Plates and 366 Woodcuts. Is. The Pilgrim’s Progress. With Coloured Illustrations. 2s. 0d. Good Times. Is. 0d. Cassell & Company’s Complete Catalogue will be sent /ost free on application toCOOKERY The Largest, Cheapest, and Lest Cookery Book. 1,280 pages royal 8vo, cloth, 7s- 6d.; roxburgh, 10s. 6d. Cassell’s Dictionary of Cookery. Illustrated throughout. Containing about 9,000 Recipes. “ The largest and most complete collection of the kind ever produced in this country.”—Christian World. “ One of the most thorough and comprehensive works of the kind. ’—The Times. 80th Thousand, price is. ; post free, is. 3d. Cassell’s Shilling Cookery. This new and valu- able Work contains 364 pages, crown 8vo, bound in limp cloth. “ This is the largest and most comprehensive work on the subject of cookery ever yet published at the price.”—Christian Age. Cloth gilt, 2s. Cassell’s Popular Cookery. Being the above Work, handsomely bound in cloth boards, with Four Coloured Plates in addition. Cheap Edition (20th Thousand). Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d. A Year’s Cookery. Giving Dishes for Break- fast, Luncheon, and Dinner for every Day in the Year, with Instructions for their Preparation. By Phyllis Browne. “A Year’s Cookery, by Phyllis Browne, with bills of fare for every day in the year, with directions for cooking, for marketing, and for making ar- rangements for the next day, makes up an invaluable present for young house- keepers. ”—A thenceum. *** A List of Cassell & Company’s Household Books wil., be sent post free on application. CASSELL & COMPANY, Limited, Ludgate Hill, London. DVENTILATION OF KITCHENS, DINING ROOMS, DININC SALOONS, &c. SUGG’S PATENT CONTINUOUS UP-DRAUCHT” VENTILATOR SIMPLE, (SUGG’S AND SIMMANCE’S PATENTS). NOISELESS, EFFECTIVE, DURABLE, WEATHER-PROOF, DOWN-DRAUCHT IMPOSSIBLE. Prices and all particulars on application to WILLIAM SUGG & Co., Limited, Vincent Works, Westminster; i and 2, Grand Hotel Buildings, Charing Cross; Crystal Palace, Sydenham: 33, Bold Street, Liverpool ; and 4og, Keizersgracht, Amsterdam. E Made in all sizes, from 2 inches up- wards, in Zinc, Gal- vanised Iron, and Copper, and in several patterns. Any work- man can fix. Does not get out of order. It extracts powerfully, and a con- tinuous up-draught is produced at all times.4 RECORD OF TREATMENT, EXTRACTION, REPAIR, etc. Pressmark: Binding Ref No: Microfilm No: Date 1SS7 Particulars Chemical Treatment Fumigation Deacidification ( Lamination Solvents Leather Treatment Adhesives Remarks Prices, estimates, and all -particulars from the Manufacturers, WILLIAM SUGG & CO., Limited, Vincent Works, Westminster; 1 and 2,-Grand Hotel Buildings, Charing Cross; Crystal Palace, Sydenham; 33, Bold Street, Liverpool; and 409, Keizersgracht, Amsterdam. r