R.C.P. EDINBURGH|||j||||""" R53662J0236v_ Digitized’by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.Org/details/b21980202_0005A S Y S T O F SURGERY: B Y BENJAMIN BELL, MEMBER OF THE ROYAL COLLEGES OF SURGEONS OF IRELAND AND EDINBURGH, ONE OF THE SURGEONS TO THE ROYAL INFIRMARY, AND FELLOW OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF EDINBURGH. ILLUSTRATED WITH COPPERPLATES. V O L* U M E V. THE SIXTH EDITION, CORRECTED AND ENLARGED. E M EDINBURGH: PRINTED FOR BELL & BRADFUTE *, AND G. G.&J. ROBINSON, ANB MURRAY & HIGHLEY, LONDON, M,DCC,XCVI,■■CONTENTS. CHAPTER XIV. Diseases of the Mouth, « , 9 SecSt. IX.- Of foothach^ ^ ib. \ Of ^oothach from th6 Nerve being laid bare, and of the vari- ous Methods of Extrading Tteeth, 11 § 2. Of T^oothach from Inflammation, 63 § 3* Of Toothach arifing from Af- feciions of dijlant Parts, 68 Sed. X, Of franfplanting Teeth, 74iv CONTENTS. Page Sed:. XI. Of the Ranula^ - 86 Sed. XII. Of Ulcers of the Mouth * and Tongue^ and Extirpation of the T’ongue^ - - 91 Sed. XIII. Of the Divifion of the Franum Lingua^ •• 98 Sed. XIV. Of the Divifion of the Parotid DuFl, - ioq CHAPTER .XV. Of the Diseases of the Ears, and the Operations praSlifed upon them^ 105 Sed. I. Of Deafnefs, - -* ib. ^ i. Of an Imperforated Meatus Audit oriuSy - - 109 ^2. Of Extraneous Bodies impaSled in the Ear^ - -in * §3-CHAP- CONTENTS. r Page § 3. 0/" Excrefcences in the Mea- tus ^uditorius, - - 114 § 4. Of Deafnefs from Wax col- leBed in the Ears, - 118 Sed. II. Of Perforating the Lobes of the Ears, - - 125 CHAPTER XVI. Of Wry Neck, - - 128 CHAPTER XVII. Of Bronchotomy, - - 133 CHAPTER XVIII. Of Oesophagotomy, - iS3 CHAPTER XIX. Of Diseases of the Nipples, - 165Ti CONTENTS. CHAP- Page CHAPTER XX. Of the Amputation of Cancerous Mamm.3:, - - i6p CHAPTER XXI. Of Paracentesis Thorax, 191 Se£t* I. General Remarks on the Ope-- ration^ ^ Se6l. II. Of Serum collected in the Thorax^ - - - 193 Sed. III. Of Blood colleEled in the Thorax, - - 211 Sed. IV» Of an Empyema, or d Col- leStion of Purulent Matter in the Thorax, - - 218 Sed. V. Of Air extravafated in the Thorax^ - * 228vU CONTENTS. CHAP- Page CHAPTER XXII. of the Paracentesis of the Abdomen, 237 CHAPTER XXIII. Of Hernia, - - 255 Sed. I. Of Hernm in general^ ib. Sed. II. Of the Bubonoceley : 312 Sed. III. Of the Hernia Congenita^ 352 Sed. IV. Of the Crural or Femoral Hernia f - - • 35^ Sed. V. Of the Exomphalos^ or Vmhi* Heal Rupturey - - 366 Sed. VI. Of Ventral Hernia,* 372^ Sed. VII. Of the Hernia of the Fora- men Ovale, - - 374 Sed. VIII. Of the Hernia CyfHca, or Hernia of the Urinary Bladder^ 378viii CONTENTS. Page CHAPTER XXIV. On the Hydrocele, - - 384 Sed:. I. General Remarks on the Hydrocele, ib. Sed. II. Of the Anafarcons Hydrocele of the Scrotum, ~ "^ 393 Sed. HI. Of the Hydrocele of the T’u- nica Vaginalis fejlis, - 408 Sed. IV. Of the Hydrocele of the Her-- nial Sac, - - 509 Sed. V. Of the Anafarcous Hydrocele of the Spermatic Cord, - 517 Sed. VI. O/' the Encyjled Hydrocele of the Spermatic Cord, - 523 CHAPTER XXV. On the Hjematocele, - 537 ARRANGE-ARRANGEMENT of the PLATES. All the Plates are placed at the end of their refpe&he Volumes* In VoL. III. Plates I. Plates VII. II. VIII. III. IX. IV. f X. V. XL VI. In VoL« IV. Plates XII. Plates XXVII. XIII. XXVIIL XIV. XXIX. XV. XXX. XVI. XXXI. XVII, XXXII. XVIIL XXXIII. XIX. XXXIV. XX. XXXV. XXL XXXVI. XXII. XXXVII. XXIII. XXXVIII XXIV. XXXIX. XXV. XL. XXVI. InX ARRANGEMENT In VoL. V. ;XLL Plates LV. XLII. LVI. XLIII. LVII. XLIV. LVIII. XLV. LIX. XLVI. LX. XLVII. LXI. XLVIII. LXII. XLIX. LXIII. L. LXIV. LI. LXV. LII. LXVL LIII. LXVIL LIV. In VoL. VI. j LXVIII. Plates LXXVIIL LXIX. LXXIX. LXXi LXXX. LXXL LXXXL LXXIL LXXXII. LXXIII. LXXXIIL LXXIV. LXXXIV. LXXV. LXXXV. LXXVI. LXXXVI. LXXVII. LXXXVII. PLATESOF THE PLATES In VoL. VIL Plates LXXXVm. Plates Cl. LXXXIX. CII. XC. ClIL XCI. CIV. XClh cv. XCIII. CVI. XCIV. evil. XGV., ' CVIIL X( VI. CiX. XCVII. ex. XCVIII. CXI. XCIX. CXILVoL. V. '• A is A TREATISE . O N T H E. THEORY AND PRACTICE O F SURGERY. CHAPTER XIV. Bifeafes of the Mouth. SECTION IX. Of Toothach. TOOTHACH appears to be more un- fupportable than any other kind of pain. It renders all who labour under it very unhappy; and being one of the moft frequent difeafes to which the human body10 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV. is liable, it neceflarily becomes a fre- quent objed: of attention. The pain induced by toothach, even when confined to a fingle tooth, is often produdiye of fevere diftref^; but this is trifling when compared with the confe- quences that fometimes enfue from it. Inftances, indeed, often Occur of the moil robufl conftitutions being ruined by fre- quent returns of it. Befides the ufual fymptoms of pain in one or more of the teeth, and of fwelling in the contiguous gums, the cheek frequently becomes tu- mefied 5 the eye, and even the ear of the affeded fide, are often attacked with pain and inflami;nation ^ and to thefe, fever, with all its confequences, is apt to fuc- ceed. ' Thefe fymptoms may be induced by different caufes, and by affedions of the teeth feemingly of oppofite natures. I. They may proceed from the nerve and other parts within the cavity of a tQoth being denuded, either by external violence.II S€(S. IXi . Difeafes of the Mouth. violence, or by the enamel falling off as the effed of other difeafes. 2. They niay proceed from inHamma- tion, either of the parts within the tooth, or of the membrane that fur rounds the root of it. And, 3. The teeth and contiguous parts of the jaws are often attacked with pain in confequence of what is ufually termed Sympathy 3 that is, they often become pained from alFedUons of diftant parts, very fevere fits of toothach being fome- times induced by difeafes of the eye, of the ear, and ftomach. I lhall proceed to treat feparately of thefe caufes in the order they are here mentioned. § t. Of Toothach from the Nerve being laid bane^ and of the Various Methods of Ex- traBing teeth. In whatever manner the cavity of a tooth be expofed, we find from daily ob~ fervation, that for the moft part it excites A 2 much12 Di/ea/es of the A/foutb. Ghap. XIV. much pain; and the reafon is obvious. Nature, as we have already obferved, ha$ provided the teeth with nerves, but at the fame time fhe has given them a very complete covering' of bone : When this protection, therefore, is deftroyed, either by accident or difeafe, it might a priori be fufpected, that thefe parts which were not formed for being expofed, would fuf- fer various injuries, not merely from the food and drink finding accefs to them, but from the external air being at all times freely applied to them. But, it is not the mere expofure of a nerve, or the violence employed in laying it bare, that produces pain; it is the con- fequence of this expofure, the effeCls that refult from it, from which all the enfuing diftrefs originates : Of this every praCti- • tioner muft have met wftb frequent in- fiance^. Thus I have often known the cavity of a tooth laid open by the enamel being broken by a fall or a blow, and no inconvenience enfue but a flight degree of pain; and it frequently happens, that the enamel13 Se6t. IX. Difeafes of the Mouth. enatnel breaks ofl^ and the reft of the teeth moulder away without any pain or uneafinefs. It is therefore evident, that expofure of the nerve alone is not the ul- timate caufe of toothach. It is a certain decree of irritability induced by this ex- pofure that appears to be the caufe of it ^ and to this our views fliould be direcfted in the method of cure. This irritable ftace of the nerve may be induced by various caufes, and more e-- fpecially by faccharine, acid, and other ftimulating fubftances contained in food, being frequently applied to it ^—by a too frequent ufe of toothpicks, which may' often be traced as the origin of toothach ; —and by much expofure to a ftrearn of cold air. Expofure to cold, particularly in a damp ftate of the air, often termi- nates in toothach by inducing inflamma- tion > but it frequently excites very fe-^ vere degrees of pain in teeth already de- prived of part of their enamel, when no other fymptom of inflammation is difco- vered. A 3 Thefe14 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV® ■ Thefe are the mofl: common caufes of toothaeh when the nerve of a tooth has previoufly been laid bare ; and in fuch circumftances their mode of operating may be eafily explained 3 but we cannot fo eafily fugged: a reafon for this ftate of a tooth,being fuch a frequent occurrence, nor does it appear in what manner it is for the mofl: part produced. The enamel is fometimes broken by falls and blows, ‘ and it frequently fuffers by attempts to break nuts and other hard fubftances with the teeth: In fuch cafes the caufe is ob« vious 3 for we know by daily obfervation, that the offeous part of a tooth very foon becomes carious and waftes away on 'the enamel being deftroyed. But how do we account for the moft frequent of all cau- fes of toothaeh, the decay or wafting of the enamel by rottennefs, when no evh dent external violence has been done t6 it? It has been alleged, that we may often trace it to a too free ufe of acids, and by fome it is faid that it depends-moft fre- quently upon a want of cleanlinefs in not 1 ' wafhing.Sc(i. IX. Difeafes of the Mouth. wafhing or otherwife clearing the mouth of putrefcent particles after meals. Par- ticles of food in a ftate of putrefcency, by refting upon the teeth, ate fuppofed to be capable oit communicating fome de- gree of their own nature to the enamel ^ and putrefcency being produced even In a fingle point, the contiguous' parts, it is fuppofed will become difeafed, from the fame caufe that mortification fpreads in other parts of the body. ' I will readily admit that a frequent appli- cation of acids, even of thofe of the mildeft nature, will 'prove hurtful to the enamel; and therefore that they fiiould be avoided^ while It is equally clear, that the mouth fiiould be regularly wafiied after meals, not only for preventing that kind of in- cruflation upon the teeth that we have al- ready confidered, but for preferving a fweetnefs of breath : It does not, how- ever, appear probable, that the difeafe we are now confidering, fpoiled or cari- ous teeth, depends upon either of thefe caufes. Were it to originate from the A 4 tool6 Bifeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV* too free ufe of acids, it ought to^afFedl all the teeth equally, whereas it begins al« moft in every iriftance in a mall point, or fpot, which in general ex :aids much more flowly than it probably would do if the difeafe was produced in this manner. And again, with, refpecS to the effecd of any pu** trefcent particles lodging upon the teeth, I do not think it probable that this dif- eafe can be ever induced by them. A piece of meat remaining in the mouth from one meal to another, may acquire fome degree of fetor ; but it cannot pro- bably in that fliort period become fo high- ly putrid as to deftroy the living princi- ple in thofe parts with which it comes in eontadt. It rs a point, however, which may be eafily determined by experiment > and from the rcfult of fome trials that I made for this purpofe, there is reafon to fuppofe that the common opinion with refpedl to it is ill-founded. A tooth new- ly pulled was put into the centre of a piece of putrid beef, and after reriiaining la it for eight days, it was as free from. putrefadlionSed, IX, Difeafes of the Mouth, 17 putrefa£lIon aswhenfirft putiiitoIt,neitlier the enamel nor internal parts of the tooth being in any deree afleded; and the ex;- periment being repeated with teeth that had been pulled for a conliderable time, the refult was exactly fimilar. Now,' if this happens with teeth entirely dead, even when totally immerfed in 'highly putrid matter, we may fairly conclude, that a partial application of putrefcent particles to teeth ftill enjoying life and connedled with the reft o£;:j:he body, will not pro- bably hurt them : For we know, that in other parts of the body the vita! principle has a confiderable effed: in refifting pu- trefadion; and we have no reafon to doubt of the teeth being endowed with the fame power of felf-prefervation. But^ beiides this general argument in fupport of the opinion, I may remark, that if the common idea on this pointwas well found- ed, thofe parts of the teeth fliould be moft liable to corruption where particles of food arc moft apt to lodge s while, on the ■contrary,18 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XI contrary, thofe parts of them that are not expofed to this, fhould feldom or ne- ver fuffer. Now every praditloner knows that this is by no means the cafe ^ for k muft be acknowledged, that one part of a tooth is juft as apt to become carious as another, The moft likely part for food to reft in is between two teeth; and we allow that the teeth fometimes fpoil in thefe parts, but by no means more fre- quently than in other parts not fo much expofed to this inconveiiience. It does not appear, therefore, that the caufes ufually fuppofed to be moft produc- tive of carious teeth have much elFecft, nor do we know of any incidental occur- rence to which in particular this affeeftion can be attributed : From all the obferva- tion that I have been able to makq, it ap- pears rather to proceed from fome general gonftitutional caufe; from fome tendency in the fyftem to produce a wafting or decay of this particular part. The caufe of this again I fliall not pretend to explain 3 but I think it perhaps equally probable that this mortification of the teeth, depends ' uponSedi. rX. Difeafes of the. Mouth. If ilpdn fome general aiFedlon of the fyftenij,> as that pain in the gout originates from fome general caufe. Inflances no doubt occur, of teeth becoming carious evident- ly from fome particular occafional caufe,, and elpecially from the enamel being in- jured by external violence : This, how^ ever, is not a frequent occurrence : In- deed it is rarely met with when compared with the frequency of carious teeth; a difeafe which in moft inftances begins without any evident'caufe, and which in general has fublifled for fome time be- fore being noticed* But allowing that the opinion I have offered upon this point were admitted, it may be aiked. To whaf purpofe will it tend ? Will it fuggefl: any difference in the treatment of the difeafe ? I think it will.—As the pain of the toothach creates a great deal of impatience, and is with difficulty Supported, if the pained tooth is carious, it is in general not only the de- fire of the patient, but the earneft advice of praditioners, to have it extraded, as beiiij.Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV, 20 being the moft certain means of obtain- ing rejief. In violent degrees of tooth- ach, when the other remedies iifually em- ployed do not fucceed, extraction of the difeafed topth ought certainly to be ad- vifed; and in fuch circumftances no per- fon can be more clearly of this opinion than I am ^ but I am equally clear, that, in common practice, this is carriecj too far, and that teeth are daily pulled which ought not to b^e touched. In moll in- ftaruces, tlie pain is no doubt removed immediately on the difeafed tooth, being extracted : But it commonly happens that relief obtained in this manner proves on- ly temporary, and that the caries foon fixes upon fbme other tooth, which foon becomes as much difeafed as the firft; and this being likewife removed, the' dif- eafe is apt to proceed from one to an- other, till fcarcely any are left. Of this I have met with various inftances, where almoft the whole teeth have been fuccef-' lively taken out, one becoming carious foon after another was removed. Nor is 3 ^ there'21 *Se6l. IX, Difeafes of the Mouth* there even at laft any advantage gained by the pradice 3 for, after all the teeth are taken out, the pain often remains e- qiially fevere in the jaw ilfelf. The frequent occurrence of this tends much to eftablilh the opinion of carious teeth being often a conftitutional difeafe; and it likewife fuggefls the propriety of extrading teeth lefs frequently than is commonly advifed. As we can never at firfl: be certain whether the difeafe de- pends upon a general caufe or not, it is perhaps right in every cafe to extrad the firfl:, and even the fecond tooth that be- comes affeded, as foon as the fits of toothach become frequent and fevere : But whenever the difpofitioh is fo flrong- ly fixed in the fyflem, that a third or a fourth fo6n become difeafed, the patient fhould be 'advifed rathfer to fubmit to a good deal of diftrefs than to extrad any more: And it often happens, when he has refolution to fubmit to one fit of the toothach, and to wait till it is complete- ly over, that he never afterwards, in this toothI 22 Difiafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV. tooth at leaft, feels any return of it. Cafes no doubt occur in which this does not happen ^ but it happens often enough to warrant the propriety of giving it a fair trial in perhaps every inftance : Even where it fails, no harm is done by the trial ; and when it fucceeds, the advan- tage gained by it is great. For a confi- derable time I adopted the common prac- tice on this point in its full extent: Eve- ry carious tooth attended with pain I ad- vifed to be pulled ; but finding in general that no advantage was derived from it, the refult being for the mofl: part nearly as I have already defcribed, I was hence induced to depart from it; and now, after a patient has had a tooth or two extrad- ed, if the difeafe ftill continues to re- turn, I never advife the pradice to be pulhed farther, unleis when the pain is fo fevere as to be unfupportable, which, however, is not often the cafe. By a- voiding expofiire to cold during the fit, and by exhibiting dofes of laudanum pro- portioned to the degree of pain, the diftrefs23 Sed. IX'. Difeafes of the Mouth. diftrefs produced by it is at laft in gene- ral removed; and by. due attention to cleanlinefs, particularly by frequently wafhing the mouth with cold water, and, when pradicable, by fluffing the opening in the carious tooth fo as to prevent the accefs of air, many have been faved not only from the pain and diftrefs of pulling teeth that became firft affeded, but of lofing others, which probably would have become carious if the common pradice had been followed of extrading all dlf- eafed teeth as foon as they become pain- ful. Having thus endeavoured to fhow that carious teeth are moft frequently produ- ced by fome general conftitutional caufe, I fhall now proceed to confider more particularly the means to be employed, not only for preventing, but for remo- ving toothach depending upon this caufe. In cafes of carious teeth, it is the pre- vailing pradice to remove the black or mortified fpot with a file, in order to pre- vent it from fpreading j but, fo far as my obfervation24 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV® obfervatlon goes, the pradtice ought not to be followed i for the difeafed part of a tooth can never be removed without ex« poling thofe parts that remain to a more free accefs of air than that to which they were previoully liable ^ and therefore in« ftead of proving ufeful, I have almoft univeffally feen it do harm. In many, I have known it induce pain where none exifted before j and inftead of preferving teeth, it frequently feems to have the elFed: of rendering the remaining found parts of teeth fooner carious than they might have become if they had not been touched. I therefore do not hefitate to fay, that this pradice of filing Ihould be laid afide^ and whoever confiders the neceflary ef- fed of it will probably be of the fame opiniom It is evident that the part of a tooth already carious cannot be fenfible of pain. For what purpofe, therefore, Ihould it be removed ? While It remains, it ferves in fome degree to cover and pro- tect the found, parts beneath, while by ta- king it off they are left perfedly bare,Sedl. IX. Difeafes of the Mouth. 25 and apt to be hurt by whatever is taken into the mouth. When, again, as much of the enamel is removed, either by caries or external vio- lence, as to form a cavity in a tooth, we have it frequently in our power to pre- vent the acceffion of toothach, by fluf- fing or flopping up the opening, fo as to prevent the air and particles of food froiii getting accefs to the nerve. Different fubflances are employed for^this: Such as gum lac, maflich, olibanum, bees-wax, fealing-wax, tin, lead, and gold. When the opening made by the difeafe is large, and efpecially when narrow at the bot- tom, and wider outwardly, maflich and 'gum lac, or even bees-wax, will fome- times anfwer when none of the harder fubflances will remain in the cavity : But all of thefe being fdft or friable, they are quickly rubbed down in maflication> and require to be frequently renewed 3 fo that fdme of the metals are preferable when the form of the opening admits of their beinff employed, which is always the VoL. V. B cafe,26 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV* cafe when the tooth is much fcooped out inwardly, with a fmall hole leading into it. Gold leaf is fometimes ufed ; but no- thing anfwers fo well as common tin- folL As much of it fliould be cut off as will probably be needed ^ and one end of it being pulhed into the hollow of the tooth with the inftruments, fig. 6. 7. or 8. Plate XLV. the reft of it fliould be gradually prefled in till the cavity is fill- ed : And this being done, any portion of the tin that remains fhould be cut off, and the furface of the whole made fmooth by frequent rubbing with the burnlfher, fig. 9. of the fame Plate. But before any attempt is made for flopping a tooth, the nerve fliould be rendered as infen- fible as poflible ; for till this h aecom- pliflied, the patient will not be able to bear the prefliire which fixing the tin re- quires. In general the nerve becomes fufficiently callous, merely by delay : But when this does not anfwer, we may often effed our intention by inferting daily in- to the cavity of the tooth a few drops of 2 oilSed. IX. Difeafes of the Mouth* 27 oil of origanum, thyme, or any other fential oil^ by which any flight degree of irritability in the nerve is often remo- ved, fo as to admit of preflure being ap- plied to It with freedom. I have already obferved, that neither tin, lead, nor any hard fubftance, will re- main in the hollow of a tooth unlefs the opening into it is narrow. It has how- ever been propofed, when the ppening is of a different form, and wlien the fluf- fing cannot be fixed in any other manner, to do it by drilling a fmall hole through the fides of the tooth 3 fo that when the lead is prefled down, it may be retained by palling a peg of filver, gold or any o- ther metal, from one fide of the tooth to the other. In a few cafes this may fuc- cecd^ but it will not anfwer either where the openings is wide outwardly, or where the fides of the tooth are not firm ^ for where the external opening is wide, even a peg palled through the centre of the fluffing will not keep It fiifficiently firnx to prevent fomer parts of tlie food from B 2 finding28 Difeafes of the Mouth. Cha-p. XIV^ finding accefs to the parts beneath; and, when the remaining part of the tooth is thin and brittle, it will be apt to break in making the hole. When, however, by any of the means that I have mentioned, the hollow of a tooth can[ be properly flopped, it will not only prove the mofl effedtual method of preventing frequent returns of tooth- ach, but will have fome influence in pre- ferving the remaining part of the tooth. I have known various inflances of this^ where carious teeth have been preferved for a great number of years, without be- ing productive either of pain or any o^ thcr inconvenience; but this requires the cavity to be completely flopped, fo as to prevent either food,, drink, or even air, from finding accefs. When a perfon with carious teeth has^ been liable to frequent fits of toothach, befides fluffing the hollow teeth in the manner I have mentioned, he fhould at- tentively avoid expofure to cold: His head fhould be kept warni with flannel* covering^^29 Sed. IX. Difeqfes of the Mouth. coverings through the night; and he ihould live in a dry fituation. Indeed, a nioift atmofphere proves fo deftruilive to the teeth, that people living in wet fitua- tions find it difficult to preferve them; and I have known various inllances of frequent returns of toothach being pre- vented entirely, by the removal of the patient from a damp to a dry fituation: Nay this ,will fometimes fucceed when every other means have failed. By due attention to thefe means, much _ may be done in preventing people with carious teeth from fuffering fo much as they otherwife would do : But, notwith- Handing of all our endeavours, teeth in this fituation are very apt to become pain->. ful, and are often productive of much mifery, fo that the mofl: effectual method of removing them is often a very impor- tant object. Some varieties of toothach may be re- moved by remedies applied to other parts of the body. Thus when pain occurs in a tooth, as it fometimes does, from in- B 3 flammation3^ Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV, flammatioii firfl beginning in the e^r, it naay be more efFe6lualIy removed by ap- plying a blifter behind the ear than by any other means: Or when a foulnefs of the ftomach is the cauft of it, a vomit proves the moft effedlual remedy. This I lhall afterwards confider in a more particular manner. But when tpothach proceeds from the nprye of a tooth being laid bare, it will feldom happen that any application will anfwer that is not made diredtly to the part itfelf. Bark, eledrir city, and a variety of noftrums, are fre- quently employed; but in this variety of toothach, the only remedies that I have ever known prove ufeful, are, anodynes, corrofive applications, and extraction of the tooth. In flight degrees of toothach, the pain is fometimes relieved, or even altogether removed, by applying either opium or laudanum direCtly to the bare nerve : I have known camphor too prove ufeful, both by itfelf and when conjoined with opium; and it fometimes anfwers in a li- qui431 SeA. IX. Difeafes of the Mouth. quid form, diflblved in fpirit of wine, when it doe^s not fucceed in any other way : Aether may likewife be mentioned as a remedy that fometimes gives relief 3 but as thefe and other applications of a milder nature do not commonly fucceed, we are for the moft part obliged to em- ploy others of a more adive kind, with a view to deftroy the nerve entirely. A long continued ufe of any of the ftrong eflential oils will in fome cafes, as I have already obferved, render the nerve callous or fomewhat infeniible, but they never deftroy it fo effedually as to pre- vent the rilk of future returns of tooth- ach. This, however, may be done by remedies of a different kind; by the ap- plication of fpirit of vitriol or any other, concentrated mineral acid; by inferting a bit of lunar cauftic into the cavity of the tooth ^ or by burning the nerve with the actual cautery. But, In ufing either the lunar cauftic or any of the ftrong a- cids, much attention is neceflary to pre- vent the contiguous parts from being hurt; B 4 for32 Bijeafes of the Mouth Chap. XIV, for if not inferted with much caution, they are apt to fpread and do much harm : The adual cautery may, however, be employed without ri/k : But that it may prove effectual, the hot iron mull be pufh- ed farther into the hollow of the tooth than patients in general will allow; for if the nerve be not deftroyed to the very extremity of the root, no advantage will be gained; and this being both tedious and painful, we do not find many that a- gree to it; but when properly applied, we have it in our power entirely to deflroy the nerve: It may be done with a piece of fmall wire made lharp at the point, or with the inflrument reprefeuted in Plate XLV. fig. 8. It often happens, however, that none of thefe remedies anfwer, either from their not being duly applied, or from prac- titioners not pufhing them fo far as they ought to do. In this cafe, when the pain continues violent, we are under the ne- ceffity of deflroying the nerve in a dif- ferent manner, namely, by the extradlionSed. IX. Difeafes of the Mouth. 33 of the toothy and this being done, if the tooth is not much fpoiled, and if it be not broken in the operation, after the focket is cleared of blood, it may be re- placed in the manner I lhall afterwards mention when treating of the method of tranfplanting teeth. This will not always fucceed, efpecially in the molaresybut in the back part of the mouth it is not fo necellary as when the incifores or canine teeth are taken out, when it often anfwers. And v/hen a tooth thus replaced becomes firm, it proves equally ufeful as before ; while, from the total deftrudion of the nerve, it is not afterwards apt to produce pain. I lhall now proceed to confider the method of extrading teeth. The pulling of teeth being a frequent operation, much paius has been taken to perform it with as much eafe as poflible; and although it ftill neceflarily gives pain, yet it is now done both with more eafe and fafety than it could ppilibly be in for- mer times, while the inftruments employ- ed for it were rude and imperfed. It34 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap, XIV. It Is evident that a tooth may be pull- ed in dilFerent diredlions: It may either be pulled in a perpendicular diredion with refped to its roots; or it may be made to turn upon its axis by depreffin^ the corona or upper part of it, by which the point of the root will be proportion- ally raifed ^ or a fufficient degree of force may be applied for pufliing it out of the focket in a lateral diredion. If thefe methods of operating were all equally pradicable, we would not hefi- tate to fix the preference : In raifing a tooth perpendicularly, much lefs violence muft be done to the contiguous parts than by forcing it out in a lateral di- redion: For as the roots of the teeth are all firmly fixed in bone, they cannot pof- fibly be prefled out laterally, but with fuch a force as Is fufficient for breaking or burfting opeq that part of the alveolar procefs of the jaw-bone with which they are furrounded^ and as thisds in general attended with fome laceration, and always with much contufion, of the contiguous foftSedt. IX. Difeafes of the Mouth. 35 foft parts, it Is neceflarily produdlive of a good deal of pain: But as all the fpace we can obtain, even by the greateft wide- nefs of the mouth, will not admit proper . inflruments for moving the teeth in the back part of the mouth In a perpendicular diredllon, we are for the moft part under the neceffity of ufiiig fuch |as move th^m laterally. All the incifores and canine teeth may indeed be taken out In a per- pendicular diredion, and even fome of the molares, when they are loofe ; but when the molares are firmly fixed, no inflruments with which we are acquaint- ed will pull them in this manner. Vari- ous propofals have been made for this purpofe y but although hitherto every at- tempt has failed, fome farther trials may perhaps render our inflruments fufficient- ly perfed for effeding it. The only Inflruments of which pradl- tioners in former times were pofleffed for the extradion of teeth, were different kinds of forceps or tenets, named accord- ing to their form^ Hawks-bills, Cranes- bills,$6 Difea/es of the 'Mouth. Chap. XIV, bills, &c. and different kinds of levers both ftraight and crooked. Thefe, how- ever, were rudely conftruded, and it was with much difficulty that teeth firmly fixed were moved by them. In procefs of time, therefore, various improvements were propofed on them; but few of thefe being of much importance, it is not ne- ceffary either to defcribe them, or to give delineations of them^ and this efpecially as they may be feen in the works of Ga- rengeot, Scultetus, Hildanus, and other writers of the laft and preceding centu- ries. All that I mean to do, is to deli- neate thofe infiruments that are approved of by modem practitioners of reputation ; to propofe fuch Improvements upon thefe as by experience have been found to prove iifeful -y and to give a detail of the method of ufing them. For a long time paft, an inftrument termed a Key has been almoft the only one employed in Britain for extracting firm teeth, and it Is now very generally nfed in different parts of the Continentc DifferentSed^IX. hifeafes of the Mouth* 37 DifFerent forms of it are delineated in Plates XLVI, and LI. In operating with this inftriiment, if the tooth to be taken ont is in the under jaw, the patient fliould^be feated in a chair, while his head Ihould be fupport- ed by an alliftant behind ; but if in the upper jaw, he fhould be feated upon a pih low, with his head turned back, and fup~ ported upon the knees of the operator, who in this cafe muft fland behind him, whether the tooth be in the right or left fide of the jaw: But when a tooth is to be extradled from the under jaw, if it is on the right fide, the operator fliould be pla- ced fomewhat to the left 3 and, vice ver- fa, when the tooth is on the left fide, the furgeon fhould place himfelf fomewhat to the oppofite fide. That the inftrument may be applied with as much freedom as poffible, as well as to prevent the gums from being lacerated, all the foft parts ad- hering to the teeth fhould be feparated by infinuating between them the point of the fcarificator, fig. i. Plate XXXVII.; and this38 Dijeafes of the Mouth. Ghap. XIV^ this being done, the operator mull pro- ceed to the application and ufe of the key^ The patient having cleared his mouth of blood, the point of the claw, Plate XLVI. fig. I. mull be prefled as far down be- tween the gum and root of the tooth as pofiible^ and in this fituation it mull be firmly fixed and retained with the fore- finger of the left-hand, while the fulcrum G, being placed as far down as it will go upon the gums on the oppofite fide of the tooth, the operator mull now with his fight-hand apply fuch a force as may be necelTary for moving it ^ and by turning the handle fufficiently round, almoft jany tooth may be taken out at one pull without railing the inllrument: But whenever a tooth proves to be firmly fixed, and efpe- cially if it is one of the large molares whofe roots diverge confiderably, it is better, after it is freely loofened, to re- move the inllrument > and having turned the claw to the oppofite fide, to apply it fo as to turn the tooth to the other fide of the jaw, by which it will be made fo completelySed. IX. Difeafes of the Mouth. Z9 completely loofe as to be eafily taken out with common teeth forceps, Plate XL VII I, fig- 3- In ufing the key, when the tooth to be taken out is firmly^fixed, and efpecially when there is no vacant fpace between it and the contiguous teeth, fome attention is neceflary to prevent thefe laft from being loofened. When it cannot be prevented in any other manner, the edges of the tooth'to be removed, fliould be filed down with a thin file, and it may be done with- out hurting the neighbouring teeth, by ufing an inflrument that is fmooth or po- lifhed on one fide. This I believe to be the befl method hi- therto known of extrading firm teeth from the back part of either of the javv^s; and the incifores and canine teeth may like- wife be pulled in the fame manner : But thefe, namely, all the fore-teeth, as well as loofe teeth in every part of the jaw, may be pulled in a different manner, which I fhall afterwards deferibe. Although40 Difeafes of the MoUth. Chap. XI Although there is fome difference of ftrength, as I have already obferved, be- tween the outer and inner plates of the alveoli of the teeth, yet it is fo inconfi- derable, that in pulling a tooth it merits little conMeration. Neither does the di- redion of the roots of teeth merit atten- tion in this operation : For- although it is alleged by fome, that they may be turned with moff eafe towards the inlide of the mouth, from their *roots being fuppofed to fpread towards the outfide of the jaw; yet this is by no means the cafe. For the moft part, the roots of the large molares di- verge equally towards both fides of the jaw 3 fo that in this refpedl they may be pulled with the fame propriety to the one fide as to the other. But the twolafl mo- lares of the lower jaw afford an exception to this; for they are fo fituated, that in every inftance where the common key is employed, they ftiould be turned inwards. The bafis or origin of the coronoid pro- cefs forms a ftrong fharp ridge on the out- fide of the jaw, exadly oppofite to the roots*Se6l. IXi Difeaf^s of the Moutho 41 roots of thefe teeth; fo that, when turned outwards, as the heel of the inftrument muft reft upon this ridge, the gums which cover it are neceflarily much bruifed« When a tooth is much fpoiled on one fide^ it is almoft the univerfal practice in pull- ing it, to fix the point of the claw on the found fide ; and this being confidered as neceffary, it may be given as a reafon for our being obliged in fome inftances to turn even one of thefe teeth towards the outfideof the jaw. It is not, however, by any means neceflary that this ftiould be univerfally adopted : For although in ge- neral it is fuppofed to anfwer beft to fix the claw of the inftrument on the found- eft fide of a tooth, and to turn it to the oppofite fide; yet with due pains and attention we might perhaps in every in- fiance follow the very reverfe of this with equal fuccefs : For with a proper applica- tion of the fcarificator, we may almoft al- ways feparate the gums, fo as to be able to prefs the point of the claw far enough VoL. V, C down42 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XI down upon the root, and in this manner to turn it with eafe to the oppofite fide. The kcy«inftrument, however, may be made fo as to turn even the two farthefl molares outward, without doing any in- jury to the gums lying above the procefs that I have mentioned. A form of it for this purpofe is delineated in Plate XLVI- fig. 3. which I propofed feveral years ago, and which I have often ufed. By the heel of the inftrument refting upon the gums beneath the firft great molares, while 'the claw is bent in fuch a manner as to apply to either of the two pollerior teeth, they may in this manner be turned out with fafety. The heel fliould be made long, fo as to pafs far down upon the gum ^ otherwife, for this particular pur- pofe, it will not anfwer fo well. Indeed the heel of the key-inftrument fliould be always longer than it is ufually made; for when fliort, it ads with much lefs power, and is more apt to break the tooth, than when made of a greater length. The contrary of this I know has been muchSecS. IX. Difcafes of the Mouth, 43 much Inculcated ^ but after giving a fair tr^al to both methods, I am now con- vinced that the key with a long heel is much preferable to the other. The chief objedion to the ufe of a long heel is, that it muft bruife the gum more than a fliort one. This, however, is not the cafe, as will be readily allowed by all who atten- tively confiders the fubjedt:: Even the fliorteft heel muft prefs upon fome part of the gum; otherwlfe, if applied upon the tooth itfelf diredly oppofite to the point \bf the claw, as fome have advifed. It will a6t in nearly the fame manner, and with no farther power than common forceps: While again, a long heel does not, as is commonly imagined, Injure the gums in proportion to its length ; for although the flat fide of it is applied to the gums at firft, as foon as it begins to a6t, the fartheft point of it only will be found to touch them; and accordingly this part of the heel, as well as all the reft of it, fhould be made as fmooth as poflible ^ fo that in turning upon the guna, it will do C 2 lefs44 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap, XI¥. lefs mifchief than when of a rough fur- face according to the ufual form. I have already obferved, that in the pulling of teeth, the fide to which they are to be turned need not be much re- garded, from any difference of ftrength between the outer and inner plates of the alveoli or foekets ^ for in this refpeft they are nearly fimilar. But even although the difference was greater than we find it to be, it would not merit attention; for^ in pulling a tooth ii^ ^he manner I have defcribed, namely in an oblique or late^ ral direction, it is evident that the focket mull be broken on both fides ; at lead: this mu.fl be always the cafe where the roots of a tooth are of the ufual length, and not fhortened,. as they fometimes are by difeafe y for while the corona of a tooth is forced down upon one fide of the fock- et, the point of the root rnufl neceflarily be turned in nearly the fame proportion upon the other. The fofter parts will not indeed fuffer fo much, as they will not be bruifed by the heel of the inftrument; butSeft. IX. Difeafes of the Mouth. 45 but the focket muft obvioufly be much hurt by it; fo that in every point of view, little or no confideration is due in this operation to any fuppofed difference be- tween the ftrength of the two plates of which the fockets of the teeth are form- ed. But as it is of much importance to fave both fides of the alveoli as far as poffible, nothing Ihould be omitted that can with propriety be done to proted them. For this purpofe, a form of the key-inftru- ment has been propofed, by which it is intended to fupport the gums and alveoli, while at the fame time the tooth is raifed and feparated from them, by turning the inftrument in the ufual manner. But if the focket is fo effedually fupported as to prevent it from yielding on the tooth be- ing preffed towards it, there is much rea- fon to fear that the tooth itfelf wull break; and if the inftrument be not applied in fuch a manner as to have this effed, it will anfwer no other purpofe than the key in common ufe ; while, being more com- C 3 plex461 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap, XIV. plex, it Is managed with more difficulty. The propgfal, however, is ingenious, and may lead to improvement in the operation of tooth-drawltig In pulling a tooth with the key-inftru« ment it is the common pradlce to force it out at once. But although this may often fucceed, it is by no means advifa- ble: For when the roots diverge much, or when any portion of the fang is en- larged, as Is fometimes the cafe, we run much rilk, by this method, of breaking them, at the fame time that the focket muft be much more injured than when the tooth is loofened in the manner I have direded, by turning it firfl: to one fide and then to the other with the key-inftru- ment, fo as to be able afterwards to take it out with comnion forceps. And if this is done flowly, with a gradual equal pref- fure, and if the heel of the key has been properly * This inftrument is the invention pf Dr John Ait- ken. For a more particular account of it, fee Eflajs pn feveral important fubjeds in Surgery.47 Sed. IX. Difeafes of the Mouth. properly covered with feveral plies of foft linen, fcarcely any mifchief of im- portance can be done by it: But inftead of this, when the hard inftrument is ap- plied direftly to the gum, without the in- tervention of any foft fubftance, and when the tooth is turned out, as is frequently done, by a fudden jerk, the gums will not only be greatly bruifed and lacerated, but the focket will be more feverely inju- red, at the fame time that the tooth itfelf will run a greater rifk of being broken than when pulled in a more gradual man- ner. It is natural for patients, ignorant of the rifk attending it, to wifli for the operation to be quickly done; but it is unpardonable in pradlitioners to indulge them in this, when a moment’s reflection muft convince them, that a tooth cannot be quickly pulled but with much rilk, ei- ther of the jaw or it being broken. Even when the operation is done in the mofl: cautious manner, troublefome acci- dents fometimes enfue from it: And thefe particularly are, contuflons of the gum ^ C c 4 fplinters4B Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV. fplinters of bene being feparated from the jaw 3 and alarming hemorrhagies. Laceration and contufion of the gum being a very painful part of the operation^^ we ought, as far as poffible, to guard a- gainft it ; not merely by covering the heel of the inftrument in the manner I have advifed, but by declining to ufe it while the gums are much inflamed : For while much inflammation continues, the operation necefTarily gives much more pain than it otherwife would do. For ob- viating the effe6ls of laceration, when any portion of gum is much feparated from the reft, it fhoiild be cut off with fciffars ; the mouth fhould be fomented from time to time with warm milk, or any emollient decodion^ and when there is caufe to imagine that fuppuration will take place, it fhould be encouraged by the application of roafled figs or onions, by way of cataplafm. In this manner, if an abfcefs occurs, it will be foon brought to maparation^ when,'if it does not burft ickly, it ought to be opened : And a-49 Se£t. IX. Difeafes of the Mouth. gain, in flight’er contulions, nothing alle- viates the pain induced by them fo efFec- tually as the applications I have men- tioned. When the focket only has fuffered, no great uneafinefs ever enfues from it 3 fo that it is feldom neceffary to mention it even to the patient. But when the fpiin- ter extends to the more folid part of the jaw, which in children efpecially is apt to happen, if the operation be not done with the utmoft attention, as the fore that enfues proves commonly tedious, and does not readily heal as long as any loofe piecfes of bone remain in it, any of thefe that are perfedHy detached fliould immediately be taken away 3 but as they are feldom fo completely feparated as to come eafily away at firft, no force fliould be ufed in it, as they afterwards either fall out of themfelves, or may be taken away with no difficulty, on a free for- niation of matter taking place. After this, if the matter is prevented from lodging,50 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV. and if the conftitution is mother refpeds found, the fore ufually heals with eafe. Hemorrhagies of importance are not frequently produced by tooth-drawings for the blood-veflels of the teeth being fmall, it is fcarcely polfible that they can difcharge much blood. But when the roots of teeth are deeply fixed in the jaw, and when much force has been ufed in the operation, we can eafily fuppofe that in this manner fome of the larger arteries of the contiguous parts may be divided; and it is thus I imagine that slny trouble- fome hemorrhagy is ever produced by this operation. At firft we advife the pa- tient to take frequent mouthfuls of cold water, red wine, brandy, vinegar, or even alcohol; and for the moll part one or o- ther of thefe prove fuccefsful s but when they happen to fail, other means mull be employed, and the molt powerful of thefe is comprelfion. A dolfil of foft lint fit- ted to the opening, mull be pulhed into it; and the patient being defired to make a conftant prefiure upon it, by keeping his5^ St&. IX. Difeafes of the Mouth. his mouth Ihut, if this is duly perfifted in, it Very rarely fails. I have met with in- fiances, however, even of this proving unfuccefsful, and of fainting and other diftrefsful fymptoms being produced by the hemorrhagy. In this fituation the actual cautery is alone to be depended on; and it mufl be ap|)lied with freedom, o- therwife no advantage enfues from it. A fmall bit of lunar cauftic inferted into the opening, might anfwer; but it does not a6l with fuch certainty as the other^ while at the fame time there is a greater rifk of its doing harm, from its being apt to fpread fo as to injure the contiguous found parts. The key-inflrument is perhaps the beft hitherto invented for the pulling of teeth in an oblique or lateral diredion; but we have feveral others that a6l nearly on the fame principles: Thefe, however, beinglefs perfedl, I fhall not delineate them all here; but with a view to convey fome idea of them to fuch as may not have other op- portunities of feeing them, I have given52 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV. a reprefentation of two of them in Plate XLVII. figs. 2. and 3. But even thefe, although the heft I have met with, are far inferior to the key : For they a6l with much lefs power; and they have this great defedl, that they can never be em- ployed for pulling teeth towards the in- fide of the mouth. I have thus defcribed the method of extradling firm teeth from the back part of the mouth. Any of the fore-teeth may likewife be pulled, as I have already ob- ferved, with the fame inftruments ^ for they may be turned either Inwards or out- wards by a proper application of the key: But they may alfo bfe pulled In a different manner; and as this may be done with inftruments that do not brulfe the gums, they fhould perhaps in every inftance be preferred. The Incifores and canine teeth, and even the two fmall molares have only one root; fo that they are never fo firmly fix- ed in the jaw as the large grinders ; and |;hey may be extracted with more eafe. 3 For53 Se£t . IX. Difeafes of the Mouth. For the mofl: part this may be done with the common teeth-forceps reprefented in Plate XLVIII. figs. i. 3. or 4. In nfing this inftrument, it fliould be preflTed as far down upon the tooth as pofllble, Or- therwife it is apt to break off the corona or upper part of it, and to leave the root ^ and the tooth Ihould not be pulled dh redlly upwards, but twilled alternately from one fide to.the other till it becomes loofe, when it may be taken out without further trouble. In fome cafes, however,, even the fore^ teeth are too firmly fixed to admit of be- ing pulled with this inftrument: I have therefore given a reprefentation of forceps that adl with more power ^ a very inge- nious invention firft made public in the Britifti Magazine in the year 1762. It is delineated in Plate XLIX. figs. 1. and 2. Fig. I. reprefents a common ftrong forceps with moveable claws. The axis of the claws is ftiown at A, Fig. 2. is a fulcrum. B, Cj is the handle going off obliquely from By by which it is rr.ore eafily applied^ By54 Difeafes of the Mouths Chap. XIV.^ jp, D, IS a plate of iron covered under-^ neath with a piece of foft buff ^ and E is the other fide of the fame plate made round, fmooth, and uncovered. The tooth intended to be pulled is laid fall hold of with the forceps, fig. i. then the fulcrum 5, F, A is placed upon the neighbouring teeth, when the forceps being placed upon the round part of the plate £, by a pro- per motion of the lever G, H, /, X, the tooth is in this manner extraded. In the pulling of loofe teeth, this inftrument may be ufed fo as to draw them nearly ftraight up p and this we are told may even be done where the teeth are firm, provided their roots do not diverge much, and that there are no ofTeous adhefions between them and the fockets: But with a view to pre- vent any bad confequences that might en-- file from the application of much force, we are defired by the anonymous author of the inftrument, inftead of attempting to pull firm teeth diredly upwards, to twift them outwards, which loofens them fo much, that they may then be pulled mSed. IX. Difeafes of the Mouth. 55 in a perpendicular diredtion with much eafe. The advantage fuppofed to be derived from forceps with moveable claws is this: When common forceps is ufed with im- moveable claws, if the tooth is firm, it muft either be forced out obliquely, or the firfl: hold muft be loft, and the inftru- ment fixed again: But when the claws are moveable, the inftrument retains its hold, fo that the tooth may be pulled nearly in a perpendicular diredlion; for the claws, by turning upon centres, will always fall into the way of the toothy and will therefore raife it nearly in a ftraight line. I have taken different opportunities of obferving, that the moft painful part of tooth-drawing arifes from the bruifing and laceration of the gums and fockets; a circumftance that cannot be altogether avoided when the key-inftrument is em- ployed. The great objed of the forceps that I have juft defcribed being to pull in a ftraight direction, by which the gums56 Difeafes of the Mouth* Chap. XIV. gums and fockets are almoft entirely fa- ved, would render it the mofh complete mftrument that hitherto has appeared, were It not liable to fome very important objeclions. The Ingenious author of this forceps thinks it may be employed for the extraction of any teeth 3 even of the large molares : But, as the mouth cannot be fo widely opened as to admit of our applying it properly, this fliould not be attempted. It muft therefore be con- fined, as I have obferved already, to the pulling of teeth in the fore part of th^ mouth. But befides this, as the fulcrum is placed upon the contiguous teeth, when * the tooth to be pulled is firmly fixed, it is fcarcely poflible to prevent thefe from be- ing hurt: For they will be very apt to iuffer even when the preflure is made as nearly as poflible in the diredlon of their roots; and when this is not done with ac- curacy, they are apt to be broken, or even forced entirely from their fockets^ In the pulling of loofe teeth, however, and whenever the fore-teeth are not fo firmly fixedSed* IX. Difcafes of the Mouth. 57 fixed as to require much force to move them, this inftrument may be employed with advantage. When again, it is dif- covered upon trial, that all unufual de- gree of force Is neceffary, a prudent prac- titioner will rather lay the forceps afide, arid finhh the operation with fome other inftrument. The common key, as I have already obferved, may be ufed; or either of the inftruments, fig. i. and 2. Plate XLVII. may be employed for loofening the tooth; after which it may be taken out either with thefe or with common forceps. I have hitherto been fuppofing that the tooth to be pulled Is only carious in a particular part, and that a confiderable part of the corona is ftill remaining. When a tooth becomes fo much difeafed that the upper part of it fidls entirely off, fo as to leave little or nothing above the gums, the remaining part of it is thus reduced to what is commonly termed a Stump. VoL. V. D la58 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. 5tlV» In this flage of the difeafe, the connec- tion between the roots that remain and the fockets/ undergoes a very important change. By the corona being remo- ved, the roots, whatever number.there may be, are all feparated from each other; for being united folely through the intervention of the corona, their con- nection mufl evidently be deftroyed on this being taken away. In this manner their connection with the fockets be- comes lefs firm than when diverging roots, tied together above^ tend all to fupport each other; but they become ftill more loofe by a diffolving or wafting procefs, to which teeth in this fituation are al- ways liable. A confiderable part of the corona of a tooth may become carious, and fall away, without the roots being affeCted; but I have fcarcely known an inftance of the corona being completely removed for any length of time, where the roots did not fuffer a remarkable di- minution. Nay, in fome cafes, the roots, even of the largeft molares, have been 2 almoft59 Sed. IX* Difeafes of the Mouths almoft completely annihilated; and in- ftead of the long fangs with which thef^ teeth in a ftate of health are furnilhed, only a frnall point or two of fpoiled' bone has been met with. In confequence of this they become loofe^ and their con- nedion with the jaw being now very fu- perficial, they may be forced out much more eafily than a large tooth. I know that praditioners in general are not of this'opinion, the pulling of a dump being for the moft part confidered as a more difficult as well as a more painful opera- tion than the extradion of a large tooth* This, however, can proceed only from want of experience in this branch of pradlce^ for thofe who are more verflint in it know, that there is much more pain^ hazard, and difficulty, in the pulling of a complete tooth when firmly fixed, than in the taking out of feveral flumps. When the point of the claw can be for- ced fo far down upon a flump as to get a firm hold, it may be pulled with the key* inflrument in the manner I have advifed D 2 for.6o Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV. for the extradion of large teeth; but this fhould not in general be advlfed, as we may commonly employ a fufHcienf force with inftruments that do not injure the gums, and by which a very painful part of the operation may be avoided. When the flump can be laid hold of either with common forceps or with thofe with move-- able points, this as the eafiefl method fliould be preferred : But when fo much fpoiled as to be nearly,, or perhaps entire- ly, covered with the gums, the points of forceps cannot, be prefTed fufEciently down upon it; in which cafe, we are un- der the neceflity of forcing it out with a fimple lever. This inflrument is com- monly termed a Punch: Different forms of it are reprefented in Plate L. figs» 1.2. and 3. In ufing it, the gums mufl be freely feparated from the flump with a fcarificator; and the point of it being prefled down upon the root, a degree of force mufl be applied fufficient for raifing it completely out of the focket: And this beijig done with one of the fangs, the in- flrumentSed. IX. Difeafes of the Mouth. 61 ftrument mull In a limilar manner be ap- plied to the reft. With thofe accuftomed to the ufe of the punch, this operation is limple and eafy, while with others it is often both te- dious and difficult. With a view to apply as much force as poffible, the point of the inftrument is commonly pulhed as far as it will go towards the root of the fang: But by this means much of the force is loft againft the alveoli of the oppolite fide 3 which being firmer and ftronger towards the bale of the jaw, they do not fo readily yield at this part as where they are thinner and not fo firmly liipported. In general, it anfwers better to pulli the inftrument no farther down upon the fang than is merely necellary for procuring a fufficient reft for the point of It; fori know from experience, that a Hump may be forced out In this way with more eafe than in any other manner. When the punch does not force it out entirely, but ferves merely to loofen it, it may in this D 3 ftate62 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XI V» ftate be laid hold of with the forceps, and removed in the manner I have pointed out. For the moft part, a punch of the form reprefented in Plate L, fig, i. anfwers beft. With this the force is applied fo as to pufh the fang towards the oppolite fide of the jaw^ but it fometimes happens that the upper point of the root is of fiich a form as does not readily admit of force ' being applied to it in this diredion; in this cafe we employ a kind of hook or crooked lever, fiich as is reprefented in - fig. 3. by which the flump is drawn or raifed in a contrary diredlion. I have thus defcribed what by experi- ence I have found to be the furefl and eafieft method of extrading teeth. A variety of inftruments may indeed be met with in other authors, which I have not mentioned, and by which it is faid, by the inventors of them, that the operation may be done with more eafe. But this not being fupported by the refult of prac- tice and obfervatipn, it will not be ex- pededSed. IX. Difeafes of the Mouth. 63 peded that I fliould give any account of them. '§ 2. 0/' l^oothmb from Inflammation, The ordinary fymptoms of toothach arlfe, for the mofl: part, as I have already remarked, from the nerve being laid bare, either from a tooth becoming carious, or from the enamel being broken by exter- nal violence. It fometimes happens, how- ever, in a very violent manner, merely from an inflamed ftate of the membrane furrounding the root of a tooth, or from the parts within the body of the tooth be- coming Inflamed. We judge of this be- ing the caufe of toothach, when a fevere permanent pain attacks a tooth that out- wardly appears to be found: And this ef- pecially when it has been evidently indu- ced by much expofure to cold, or when it is connected with other fymptoms of inflammation, fuch as an inflamed fiate D 4 of64 Difeajes of the Mouth, Chap. XIV. of the contiguous cheek, or fwelllng and fuppuratlon in the adjoining gums. In moft inftances, we may be able to trace this variety of toothach to this caufe, namely, expofure to cold ; in fome cafes, however, it proceeds from caufes of a different nature. Whatever excites inflammation in other parts of the body, will produce the fame effed when applied to the membrane that furrounds the root of a tooth: And we know from experi- ence, that inflammation of this membrane is fometimes induced by a difeafe to which the roots of the teeth are liable^ what is termed the Swelling of the Fang, a hard knot or exoftofis that fometimes forms at the point of the root. At firfl, the pain induced by this may be fuppofed to origi- nate altogether from diftenfion alone ^ but ultimately it commonly terminates in a yery fevere degree of inflammation. And inflammation of thefe parts, by whatever caufe it may be induced, is always attend- ed with more violent pain than what com- monly takes place from fimilar affedtions in65 Se<S. IX. Difeafes of the Mouth. in other parts, owing to their being here furrounded with bone, which prevents them from yielding fo readily to that di- ftenfion of the veflels -that always attends inflammation. In the treatment of thisvariety of tooth- ach, we find in general, that thofe reme- dies prove-mofl foccefsful that anfwer befl in inflammatory affe6Hons of other parts. Local blood-letting,'either by fca- rifying the gums with a lancet, or by the application of leeches, often gives relief. I have known the pain removed by the ap- plication of a blifter to the contiguous part of the cheek: And much advantage is often derived from a large dofe of lau- danum : by procuring a temporary dimi- nution of pain, it thus lefTens irritation, and hence an abatement of the inflamma- tion itfelf. The head fhould be kept warm with coverings of flannel ^ a prac- tice that fhould be inculcated with all who are ’ liable to toothach, from what- ever caufe it may proceed, but particular- ly when it originates from inflammation ^ and66 Bifeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV. and In this cafe fomenting the head with the fleams of emollient herbs, or even of warm water alone, will often procure re- lief when every other remedy has failed. In fome cafes indeed, cold-water, vine- gar, or ardent fpirits taken into the mouth, prove fervlceable^ but for the mofl part warm applications prove more ufeful in this variety of toothach. By duly perfevering in the ufe qf one or other of thefe remedies, the pain will commonly be at lafl removed^ and in toothach arifing from inflammation, we are particularly induced to give them a full trial, from our knowing that the dif- eafe is not apt to return, after being once removed. But when we do not fucceed by other means, we are under the necef- fity of advifing the tooth to be extradled, the only remedy in fuch circumftances to be trufted. In extrading a firm tooth, I have already advifed it to be done In a flow gradual manner, ^^ith a view to pre- vent it from breaking, and the jaw from fuffering fo much as it is apt to do when a67 Se£l, IX. Difeafes of the Mouth, a tooth is forced quickly out. This cau- tion, however, is more efpecially necef- fary in the extra£Hon of teeth under the circumftances we are now conlidering; for when the pain originates from inflam- mation alone, without any part of the tooth being fpoiled, the roots are always entire, and more firmly fixed than when the corona of a tooth is moftly confiimed, and when the roots are always in fome degree decayed. And befides, when pain and inflammation are induced, as I have already remarked, by a fwelling or en- largement of the fang, and which can ne- ver be previoufly dilcovered if the tooth be turned quickly round. It will for cer- tain break 3 and the fwelled part of it be- ing left behind, fcarcely any advantage will be derived from the operation, while all the pain and diftrefs that this ufually excites, will be feverely felt by the pa- tient. On pulling a tooth that is not in any part carious, we are advifed by fome prac- titioners to replace it, and to tie it to the contiguoi:j68 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV. contiguous teeth, till it becomes firm. This I have done in difierent infliances but I think it right, to obferve, that it is a pradtice that often fails, owing, I pre- fume, to the experiment being moft fre- quently tried with teeth In a ftate of in- flammation. I know that it often anfwers where no fymptoms of inflammation have taken place j but whenever the rnembrane fiirrounding the roots of teeth, or even when the contiguous parts only are much inflamed, it will feldom or never fucceed, while at the fame time the trial will al- ways excite much pain and diftrefs. It ought not therefore to be advifed indif- crimlnately in every cafe, as has frequent- ly been done. § 3. O/* 7"oothacb arifing from JffeSiions of dijiant Parts. All the fymptoms of toothach fome- tlmes take place in one, two, or more teeth, where even with the moft accurate examinationSect. IX. Difeafes of the Mouths 69 examination we cannot difcover the leaft appearance of (Jifeafe; where we are therefore certain that no part of them is carious, and even where it is obvious, that the difeafe does not originate from inflammation. In fuch circumftances, as the patient is at firfl always unwilling to part with a tooth that appears to be found, all the re- medies ufually employed in toothach are made ufe of ^ fuch as bllfters,—blood-let- ting with leeches,—the application of af- dent fpirits and ftrong eflentlal oils to the pained part ^ and after being for fome days tormented with thefe, with little or no advantage, the pulling of the tooth is recommended as a never failing remedy. Even this fevere alternative is at laft a- greed to; but unfortunately no benefit en- fues from it. The tooth in which the pain feems to be mofl fevere is firfl; taken out: But the contiguous teeth becoming foon pained in an equal degree, they are from time to time taken out, till at lafl I have known all the teeth of one fide of a jaw extracted,70 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV.^ extraded, and ftill the pain continue equally fevere in the gums as at firft. In fuch circumftances, we will often find, that the pain in the tooth is in- duced by an affedtion of fome other part, and that no remedy will anfwer that is not direded to the original difeafe. It originates in fome inftances from rheu- matifm^—it has been known to proceed from an arthritic diathefis ^—it occurs as a frequent fymptom in hyfteric^l affedions ; — pregnant women are fre^ quently diftrefled with it;—and in fome cafes it obvioufly proceeds from a foul ftate of the ftomach. When the pain originates from a foul ftomach, which may be often known by the ftate of .the tongue, as well as other circumftances, no remedy proves fo ufe- ful as an emetic. I have known the moft violent toothach, which for many weeks had refifted the effeds of every other remedy, almoft inftantaneoufly re- moved by an emetic : And when the fto- mach is fufSciently cleared, a plentiful exhibitionSedi. IX. Difeafes of the Mouth. 71 exhibition of Peruvian bark proves often effedlual in preventing a return of it; particularly where the fits of tooth- ach have returned periodically, as they fometimes do, fo regularly as to give caufe to imagine that they depend upon a tendency to ague. In this variety of toothach, arifing from an affedion of the flromach, no benefit is derived from laudanum. Inftead of pro- curing cafe, it fe^ms rather to increafe the pain, and, by inducing ficknefs, to render the patient in every refpedt worfe. But in thefe varieties of the difeafe, ori- ginating either from rheumatifm, gout, or hyfterical affedions, opiates will for the moft part remove the pain entirely : And a return of it may be frequently prevented merely by keeping the parts fufficiently warm. In hyfterical pa- tients, a combination of laudanum with ether has iometimes proved ufeful,’ when opiates in every other form have failed. Opiates are often ufed too in toothach induced by pregnancy; but feldom with advantage.72 Bifeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV. advantage. In large dofes indeed they fometimes procure a fhort relief from pain ; but nothing I have ever tried proves fo effedlual in preventing a return of it as blood-letting. A plentiful dlfcharge of blood, by the application of leeches to the neighbouring gums, will fometimes an- fwer the purpofe ^ but as the pain feems here to originate from a general plethoric ftate of the fyftem, it commonly proves ncLore effedlual to empty the veflels by ta- king away eight, ten, or twelve ounces of blood from the arm. I have known wo- men immediately relieved by blood-let- ting, who for feveral weeks had been liable to very violent degrees of toothach, and in whom neither tooth-drav/ing, opi- ates, blifters, nor any other remedy, were produdtive of any advantage. When a practitioner finds that he has pulled a tooth in the circumftances we are now defcribing, where there Is nei- ther inflammation nor much caries, he may with much propriety replace it. After clearing the tooth and focket en- tirely73 Sed. IX. Difeafes of the Mouth. tirely of blood, it fliould be put as near- ly as pollible into its natural fituation ; where it Ihould be tied to the two conti- guous teeth till it becomes fufficiently firm. VoL. V. £ SEC-74 lyifeafes of the Mouth. Chap. SECTION x; 0/* Transplanting Teeth. The advantages of a found fet of teeth, both with relped: to beauty and utility, are evidently great: We are not therefore furprifed at finding the fertile genius of modern artifts employed in en- deavouring to fupply the lofs of thofe teeth which accident or difeafe may have occafioned. The method of fupplying thefe deficiencies, and even of making complete fets of teeth, has been long known, and the art has long been carried to great perfection 3 but the tranfplanting of human teeth from one living body to another is the invention of modern artifts. The mere propofal pf fuch a nice opera- tion was entitled to much credit; and in no inftance does the art of furgery ap- pear to more advantage than in render-Se6t. X* Difeafes of the Mouth. 75 ing the practice of it perfect. It will readily be conceived, however, that it is not admiffible in every cafe. Various cir- cumftances muft concur to render it prac- ticable ; but it n>ay commonly be done wherever it is neceflary. I. As it is in general more with a view to obviate deformity, than to be produc- tive of any real advantage, that the tranf- planting of teeth is pradlifed, it is feldom confidered as neceflary with any of the large molares. Indeed with thefe it could not often take places for as the roots of them often diverge in a very un- certain manner, and as the number and length of the roots can never be previouf- ly determined, it would for the mofl: part be ipapoffible to procure teeth exadly fitted to the vacancies intended to be filled up. The pradice is therefore confined almofl entirely to the incifores and canine teeth, although it may be done with nearly an equal certainty in the fmall molares p for in them the roots are either fingl^e, or ^E 2 if^6 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV* if there are two fangs they are almofl: al- ways united. 2. In order to enfiire fuccefs, the alve- oli and gums mufl: be perfedly found. They mufl: be free from fcurvy and the lues venerea ; nor mufl: the patient un- dergo this operation for a confiderable time after a falivation. The ufe even of a fmall quantity of mercury frequently leaves fuch a foft fpongy flate of the gums, as renders it improper while it continues to attempt any operation upon them* Hence thofe who are to have teeth tranf- planted, fliould carefully avoid even the riik of contrading any complaint for the cure of which mercury may be necefla- ry *. A patient being liable to gum boils has been confidered as an objedion to this operation; but where every other cir- cumflance concurs to render it proper, it {houldnot be forbid by this : For although it would not probably fucceed where the furrounding * This caution is particularly inculcated by the very ingenious Mr John Hunter, in his Treatife on the Dif- eafes of the Teeth, page 98.Se(ft. X. Difeafes of the Mouth. 77 furrounding focket is carious; yet we know that gum boils often occur where the focket is not in any refpe6t difeafed. 3. As the fuecefs of the operation will depend in a great meafure not only on a found ftate of the alveoli, but on the foe- kets being full and complete, it will feU dom anfwer where teeth have remained long in the ftate of ftumps: For in this ftate the roots commonly waftoaway fo as to lofe confiderably both of their length and thicknefs; and the alveoli diminifh- ing in nearly the fame proportion, fuffi- cient fpace would not be left for the roots of a found tooth to be fixed in. It may always, however, be attempted, where any confiderable part of the“corona of a tooth is left; for in this cafe the roots, as I have formerly remarked, are ufually complete, however extenfively the caries may in other refpeefts have fpread. 4. It is in youth and middle age only that this operation is admiilible. In childhood and old age it ftiould not be attempted. In childhood, a tooth put in, E 3 in^8 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV. in this manner, would never become firm, as the approaching tooth of the fecond fet would always be adting againfl it; and befides, as any vacancy produced at this period will be filled up when the fe-^ cond fet comes forward, it can never be requifite. In old age again, two flrong objcdtions occur to it. At this period the fockets of the teeth are commonly much diminifhed, particularly in depth And In old age, when many of the fmall- er blood-veflels become obliterated, it is not probable that any tranfplanted tooth would ever become firm : For, when the operation fucceeds, as a firm union al- ways takes place between the tooth and the contiguous pajts by meana of blood- veflels palling from one to the other, we are led to Imagine that it would not other- wife anfwer. Now this, for the reafon that I have mentioned, can never happen in advanced periods of life. 5. The tranfplanted tooth ought to fit the focket as exadtly as poflible: But it fliould not require much force to infert ' it;79 Sea. X. Difeafes of the Mouth. it,; for if in any degree too large, either in length or thicknefs, it will create much unneceflary pain; the irritation produced by it will probably terminate in fuppura- tion ; and in this manner the operation will be rendered abortive. Several peo- ple therefore fliould be provided for the purpofe of furnifhing teeth; fo that the operator may have no difficulty in find- ing one of a proper fize : It will fre- quently happen, that a tooth of the fame fize taken from one perfon, will fit the focket of the fame tooth in another per^ fon very exadly. But when it is found, that the roots of the tooth newly pulled are either too long or too thick for the locket in which they are to be placed, they fhould be filed down till they go eafily in; for it Is not fpund that the removal of a fmall part of the root prevents the fuccefs of the operation. And care fhould be ta- ken to make the furface of the tranfplanted tooth fomewhat lower than the level of the contiguous teeth, fo that no inconve- nience may enfue from the tooth in the op- E 4 politeSo Difeajes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV, ppfite jaw being prefled againfl: it. This difference In length, howeyer, need not be fo confiderable as to be very perceptible 5 for the fmallefl: difference wjll anfwer, the purpofe, and a greater degree of it would produce deformity. But although the roots of teeth to be tranfplanted may be leflened with a file, no part of the corona^ fhould be touched or injured. It is fometimcs indeed done by dentifls, and‘ it may in fome inftances fucceed; but as it muft always be attend- ed with fome rifk of the tooth becoming carious, it fhould never be advifed ; and this efpecially as with due attention it can never be neceffary ; for although we may be miflraken with refpeft to the fize of the roots of a toothy we may have it always in our power to determine with exadnefs, whether the upper part of the tooth to be pulled will fit the vacancy or not. 6. In taking put the new tooth and re- moving the old one, ipnch care and atten- tion is neceffary ; for if the new tooth is much broken, or if the focket in which it8i Se£l. X. Difeafes of the Mouth. it is to be placed is much injured, the operation will not fucceed. When it is poflible therefore to take out the old tooth with the forceps, it is better to do it in this manner than with ^ the key-inftrument, which can fcarcely be ufed without inju- ring the parts too much. 7. When the tooth is removed, the foe- ket cleared of blood, and the new tooth in- ferted under the reftridions I have men- tioned, we are next to endeavour to keep it firmly fixed till an adhefion fufficient for retaining it takes place between it and the neighbouring parts. This muft be done by tying it to the two contiguous teeth, and by much attention on the part of the patient to do nothing to looferi it. In tranfplanting a canine tooth, the li- gature, which fhould be made of feveral plies of fine filk properly waxed, fliould be firft tied round the upper part of the new tooth, immediately above where it begins to fwell; and on the tooth being properly placed, it fliould be tied to the two epntiguous teeth, taking care topafs the li- gature82 Difenjes of the Mouth, Cliap. XIV. gature as near as poflible to the gums. But when an inclfor or fmall molaris is tranf- planted, it anfwers better to fix the liga- ture firfl: to the contiguous tooth near to the junction of the gums, and then to pafs it over the furface of the new tooth, and bringing it again back, to fix it where it commenced, round the necks of the other teeth. In this manner the tranfplanted tooth is pulled down by the ligature into the focket; but much atten- tion is neceffary in this part of the opera- tion to prevent it from being drawn too much either to one fide or another 3 for nothing more certainly prevents it from proving fuccefsful than the new tooth be- ing made to prefs upon either of the con- tiguous teeth. This, however, will never happen in the hand^ of an expert artift, who has been fufficiently accuftomed to this branch of pradlice; nor can it hap- pen with any who is duly warned of the confequences that may enfue from it. , When the ligatures are properly fixed, they may not perhaps need to be renew-Se£t. X. Difeafes of the Moiitb. 83 ed ; but when they either flip off acci- dentally, or become loofe, they Ihould immediately be renewed ; and the patient fliould be conftantly on his guard to a- void whatever might in any degree loofen or fhake the tooth. Nor is it fufficient to attend to this for a few days only : The fame kind of caution muft be con- tinued till the tooth becomes firm; and the length of time neceffary for this will depend on the circumftances of e- very cafe; on the particular ftate of the alveoli; on the age and habit of body of the patient; and on the operation being done with more or lefs exaSnefs. In fome cafes a tooth will become perfectly firm in the fpace of eight or ten days ; while in others it wilkremain fomewhat loofe for two or three months. During all this pe- riod the patient fhould live as much as poffible upon fpoon-meat: And he fhould guard particularly againfl cold; for no- thing renders the fuccefs of the opera« tidn more uncertain than expofure to cold or dampnefs. The84 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap, XIV, The moft important objedlon that has been ftarted to the tranfplanting of teeth, is the rifk with which it is attended of communicating difeafes ; and I mufl: own that a priori it appears to be a very ma- terial one. It has not however been found on experience to be fufficient to- counterbalance the advantages that indivi- duals fuppofe they derive from it ^ for the operation is daily pradifed^ andwefeldom ‘hear even of any fufpicion of its having carried infection into the fyftem. I am not, however, of opinion with thofe who think that difeafes cannot be communi- cated in this manner. On the contrary, I think thofe practitioners do not deferve to be employed, who treat a iiiatter of fuch importance to their patients with in- difference. > Teeth for the purpofe of tranfplanting fhould never be taken from people with any appearance of difeafe. Thofe only fhould be ufed that are pro- cured from cpnftitutions in which there is every poflible evidence of health ; and with a view to prevent as much as it can beSefl:. X.' Difrafes of the Mouth. 85 SEC- be done, every rllk of Infedlon being conveyed, the tooth to be tranfplanted ihould be immerfed for a few feconds in luke-warm water, and, fhould after- wards be entirely cleared of any blood or matter that niay adhere to it, by rub- ing it gently between the plies of a piece of foft old linen. There is reafon indeed to imagine, from the refult of fome experiments made with a view to inoculate the mealies, as well as fome other difeafes, with the blood of thofe infeded with the difeafe, that infedion cannot be communicated in this manner. But the point is by no means fo certain as 'to warrant our placing much dependence upon it.86 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV. SECTION XI. ' Of the Ranula. Tumors of different degrees of con- fiftence frequently form beneath the tongue, fometimes on one fide, and at others on both fidcs, of the frenum ^ and in general they are diftinguifhed by the term Ranula. They feldom give Tnuch pain; but in fome inflances they become fo large as to impede the fuck- ing of infants, and the maflication, and even the fpeech of adults. In fuch cir- cumflances, the afliftance of furgery be- comes neceflary. In fome cafes, thefe tumors contain a fatty kind of.matter: This, however, ♦ is rare ; and for the moft part, perhaps in nineteen cafes of twenty, they are filled almofl: entirely with a thin limpid liquor very much refembling faliva 3 and we find^ on cutting into them, that they are often producedSedl. XI. Difeafes of the Mouth, 87 produced by a uoppage of the fallvary ducSs, the effect of calculous concre- tions. They fometimes arrive at a large fize I but in general the tumor burfts^ when of the lize of a large nut, leaving an ulcer that proves difficult to heal, if the real caufe of the difeafe is not difcO- vered and removed. I have known this kind of ulcer treated with much attention for the fpace of feveral months—various detergent and even corrofive applications employed for it—nay, in one inftance a long mercurial courle was adminiftered, but with no advantage whatever; and at laft, on the true origin of the difeafe be- ing difcovered, it was cured in the fpace of a few days, merely ]py removing a por- tion of hard calcareous matter, which, by flopping the natural paflage of the faliva, firft produced the tumor, and afterwards prevented the ulcer in which it termi- nated, from healing. In fome inftances thefe concretions are fmall, not larger perhaps than the head of a middle fized pin; whilft in others they are large. I have88 Difeafes of the Mouth. . Chap. XIV. have Iri dlfFerent inftances found them of the fize of a kidney-bean. In all cafes where the tumor is foft, our beft practice is to lay it open with a fcal- pel from one end to the other; by which any calcareous particles contained in it are eafily difcovered ; and thefe being removed, the remaining fore commonly heals eafily. There is no necellity, how- ever, for wafliing the fore, as we are ge- nerally advifed to do, with tindure of bark and other aftringents: On the con- trary, warm water and other emollients anfwer better, by walhing out more ef- fedually any particles of ftone that may not have been previoufly difcovered. When indeed the fore proves afterwards difficult to heal, the others may fome- times be employed with advantage. The fame kind of treatment fhould be purfued in the treatment of old fiftulous fores of thefe parts. In almoft every cafe where the difeafe is feated in any of the falivary glands or duds, it will appear to be kept up by the caufe I have mentioned, s namely,Se6l. XI. Difeafes of the Mouth. 89 namely, a ftoppage of the dud by a par- ticle of ftone; and the removal of this, by making an incifion upon it, and turning it out with a probe or a fcoop, will very commonly prove fuccefsful. When, again, tumors in this fituation are of a fatty or even of a firmer conlifl- ence, inflead of making an incifion into them, they fhould be extirpated s^ntirely ^ and unlefs they lie deep, and are of a large fize, it may always be done with fafety. Praditioners are very properly indeed afraid of hemorrhagies in this fituation; for as the arteries lie deep, it is always difficult, and, mofl: frequently impofCble to fecure fiich of them with ligatures as happen to be cut. But wherever the tu- mor is loofe, and not deeply attached to the contiguous parts, it may be taken out without any rifk from fubfequent hemorr- hagies ; for as the fuperficial arteries of thefe parts are fmall, any dlfcharge that occurs from them, in general, flops, by the application of oil of vitriol, duly diluted— VoL. V. F alcohol™90 Difeafes of the Mouth, Chap^ XIV« SEC- alcohol^—or tindure of myrrh.—In more violent hemorrhagies, it would no doubt be proper to employ the potential or even the adlual cautery ; but thefe means are feldom necelTary. In removing tumors of this kind by dif- feflion, where they lie fo deep that they cannot be eafily laid hold of with the lin- gers, common fmall forceps are ufually employed ; but a fmall hook with two fangs, fuch as is reprefented in Plate XXXVII. fig. 3. anfwers better.Sed. XIL Difeafes of the Mouth. 91 SECTION XIL (yULCERs^^MouthTongue, anth Extirpation of the Tongue. The tongue and other parts within the mouth are liable to all the variety of ulcers incident to other parts of the body^ and the means of cure that are em- ployed Ihould be nearly fimilar. When they feem to proceed from lues venerea, fcro- phula, or fcurvy, our views Ihould be chiefly direded to the cure of the general difeafe of the fyftem, while, on the con- trary, local applications only fliould be employed, when they appear to be local. Befides other caufes of ulcers, however, to which thefe parts are liable, it is pro- per to obferve, that there is one to which they are more particularly expofed, and which appears to give rife to the greateft part of them^ namely, ragged teeth. I F 2 have§2 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XI have known very troublefome fores not only produced, but kept up for a great length of time, on the fides of the tbngue^ and on the infides of the cheeks, by the fharp points of broken or carious teeth ; and as long as the rough part of a tooth, which has once induced a fore of this kind, is allowed to remain, no remedy whatever will heal the fore. In every cafe therefore of ulcer in the mouth, we ^ould enquire with much attention into the ftate of the contiguous teeth; and when any of them are rough and pointed, they ftiould be made as fmooth as poffible with one of the fmall files, Plate L. fig. 5. or 6. Or when the fore appears to be induced by tartar upon the teeth, it fhould be removed in the manner I haye already advifed in the eighth fedion of this chapter. The removal of the caufe is for the pioft part foon followed by a cure of the fore; but When this fails, we frequently derive advantage from wafhing the mouth livith gargles compofed of decodions of bark;^Se(S. XIL Difeafes of the Mouth. 9Z bark,—a folution of alum,—lime-water, —infufions of red rofe leaves—of oak- bark,—and other aftringerits. In fome cafes, however, the fores be- come worfe, notwkhflanding the ufe of thefe, mercury, and every other remedy. They become ragged and unequal about the edges; they difeharge a thin, fetid fames; and in this ftate they are com- monly attended with much pain. As long as the fore remains fmall, and does not fliew any tendency to fpread, there is in general caufe to hope that a cure may be accompliflied > but whenever it has aflumed the appearances I have enumerated, and when it does not yield to any of the means I have mentioned, as there will be little or no caufe to doubt of its being cancerous, we fliould certain- ly advife it without farther' delay to be removed by extirpation, A cancerous fore, whether feated on the tongue, or on the infide of the cheek, if it does not run deep, may be extirpa- ted with eafe and fafety; but when thq fubftance either of the cheek or of the F 3 tongne94 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV. tongue' is much afFeded, it becomes an objedl of more importance, as being at» tended both with difficulty and hazard. Whatever the rilk may be, however, if the difeafed parts can be all removed, the operation fhould certainly be advifed: For as we know of no other remedy upon which any dependence can be placed for the cure of cancer, it is furely better to fubmit to fome rilk than to be left to cer- tain mifery and death. When a deep-feated cancer in the cheek is to be removed, the eafieft and mofl ef- fedual method of doing it is to make an incilion through t-he whole fubftance of the cheek, commencing at the contiguous angle of the mouth, and ending at the fame point, after furrounding the fore: The difeafed parts being removed,, the fides of the cut fhould be laid neatly to- gether 3 and a number of gold pins being introduced at proper diftances along the courfe of it, a cure will be completed by the twifted future, in the manner defcri- bed in Sedlion i. of this Chapter. In this way very extenfive cancerous fores may be95 Se6t. Xll. Difeafes of the Mouthi be removed without leaving much defor- mity; while a very difagreeable unfeem- ly cicatrix is always left after the ufual method of doing this operation, by re- moving the difeafed parts only, and al- lowing them to heal without drawing them together with futures. in removing any confiderable part of the tongue with the fcalpel, as the ,he- morrhagy that enfues is the only fymp- tom of hazard, the operator fliould be previoufly provided with all the ordina- ry means of putting a flop to it. When ligatures can be pafTed round the divided arteries, no other remedy fliould be trufl- ed; and this I may remark, may be done more frequently, and at a greater depth in the mouth, than is commonly in;;iagi- ned. As the tongue can be puflied a con- fiderable way out of the mouth, ligatures 'maybe applied to wounded arteries, even when much of it has been taken away, merely with the common tenaculum or crooked needles; but when this does not anfwer, it may fometimes be done in F 4 theg6 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV* the manner I have defcribed in Se6t. V. Chap. X. for the removal of fchirrous tonfils. A ligature being palled round the artery with the needle ufed in fig. 3* Plate XXXVIII. it may then be tightly twilled by palling the two ends of it through the double canula, fig. i. Plate XXXI. or a knot may be formed upon it with the inftrument, fig. 2. PL XXXVIII* When, however, the artery cannot be furrounded with a ligature, we mull en- deavour in fome other manner to put a flop to the hemorrhagy* If the vefiel is not large, keeping the mouth filled with allringent gargles, either of alcohol, a Urong folution of alum, dillilled vinegar, or water llrongly impregnated with the vitriolic acid, will often anfwer:^ But when thefe do not fucceed, the potential, or even the adlual cautery, mull be em- ployed as the lall refource. The removal of any coiifiderable part of the tongue I muft allow to be a very formidable operation : As fuch it has been always confidered ^ and accordingly it has97 Sed. XII. Difeafes of the Mouth. has been rarely pradifed. But, for the reafons that I have mentioned, I have no hefitation to fay, that it is fometimes ne- ceflary, and in general that it may be done with fafety. It ought not, how- ever, to be attempted by every opera- tor for as it is always attended with a fudden difcharge of blood, the applica- tion of means proper for the ftoppage of this, obviating the effeds of fainting, and other unexpeded difficulties, that fometimes occur, require that fteady, de- liberate coolnefs, which a natural firm- nefs of nerves,, conjoined with much ex^ perience, alone oan give. $EC-98 Difeafes of the Mouths Chap, XI SECTION XIII. Of the Divifion of the Frj^inum Linguje, E fometimes find in children at birth, that the tongue is too clofe- ]y tied down to the bottom of the mouth, owing to the fraenum being either too fliort, or continued too near to the point of it. The method of cure is obvious. This membrane or ligament muft be di- vided fo as to allow the tongue to have free motion 3 and it fliould be done as foon as it is obferved to be necefiary, otherwife the fuckling of the child may in the firfl: place be impeded, and after- wards an interruption to fpeech may arife from it. It is proper, however, to obferve, that it is not a^frequent occurrence; for al- though nurfes often fpeak of children be- ing tongue-tacked, that either do not fuck readily, or that are backward in fpeakingySedt. XIII. Bifeafes of the Mouth. 99 fpeaking, yet all pradlitioners will allow that they feldom meet with it. The divifion of this membrane is an eafy operation^ but it muft be done with attention, otherwife the contiguous blood- veflels are apt to be injured, by which fuch a quantity of blood may be loft as might prove hurtful to an infant: It is commonly done either with a fcalpel or ' common fciflars; but it is done both with more eafe and fafety with the inftrument, fig. 3. Plate XLIX. The child being- laid acrofs the nurfe’s knees, the furgeon ftiould open the mouth, and elevate the tongue with the index and middle finger of his left hand, while with the other he muft introduc.e the inftrument, fo as to receive the middle of the fraenum into the fiit, which he may now divide with fafety to any neceftary depth. 2 S'EC^100 Bifeafes of the Mouth. Chap,'XI V» SECTION XIV. Of the Divifion of the Parotid Duct.. HE parotid gland of each fide tranf-^ mits the liquor which it fecretes by a ducS of the fize of a crow’s quill, which, after pafling over part of the mafleter mufcle, penetrates the buccinator in an oblique diredion, and empties itfelf in- to the mouth about the middle of the cheek. In the operation defcribed in Sed. XII. of this Chapter, that of extirpating cance- rous fores from the cheek, as well as by va- rious accidents, this dud is apt to be cut 3 and if the two divided ends of it be not retained together till they heal, the wholelOl Se(9:. XIV* Difeafes of the Mouth, whole quantity of liquor which it ought to convey to the mouth is poured over the cheeky and the difcharge being con- ftantly kept up, the fore is thus prevent- ed from healing, and a fiftulous opening is produced correfponding to the fize of the dud. As the fore commonly heals internally, the di/charge would necefla- rily continue during life, if means were pot ufed for preventing it. In recent divifions of this dud, the beft pradice is to lay the two ends of it exadly together, and to retain them in this fituation till they unite ^ by adhefive plafters, when this proves fufhcient; or by the twifted future, when the retrac- tion of the divided mufcle is coniider- able: But when this has either been ne- gleded at firft, or when it fails of fuc- cefs, as the diftant extremity of the dud foon heals, and is entirely obliterated at the divided end of it, owing to none of the fluid fecreted by the gland palling through it, the only way in which a cure cap102 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV. can be obtained is to make an artificial opening into the mouth, and to endea- vour to form an union between it and the tipper part of the du6I leading from the parotid gland. In making this paflage, we fhould car- ry it as much as poffible in the diredion of the natural dud ^ but in order to in- fure fuccefs, it Ihould be rather of a lar- ger diameter .than the other. For this purpofe a fharp-pointed perforator of a proper fize fhould be entered on the other fide of the fore, exadly oppofite and contiguous to the under extremity of the fuperior part of the dud ^ and being car- ried with fome degree of obliquity, it mull in this manner be made to pene- trate the mouth. This being done, a piece of leaden probe, exactly the fize of the perforator, fholild be introduced along the courfe of the newly-formed opening, to be retained in it till the fides of it become callous ^ when, the lead be- ing withdrawn, the end of the dud IhouldSed. XIV- Difeafes of the Mouth, 103 fhould be drawn into contadl with the fuperior part of the artificial opening by means of a piece of adhefive plafler, and kept in this fituation till a firm union has taken place. After taking out the lead, we have it in our power to forward the cure, by rendering the end of the du6l and of the newly formed opening raw with the edge of a lancet or fcalpel, be- fore bringing them together. Till a firm -adhefion takes place between them, the patient fhould be directed to live upon fpoon-meat ^ to fpeak little or none ^ and to make as little exertion with his jaws as poflible. ■ ^ In this manner, fores, which would otherwife continue to difcharge faliva for life, may be eafily healed, with fcarcely any mark of their having ever exifled. I have now had feveral inftances of this; in all of which complete cures were ob- tained. A common feton or cord of cotton has been recommended for this operation in- ftead104 DifeUfes of the Mouth. Chap, XIV. CHAP. Head of lead^ and a bit of catgut has been ufed inftead of it: But nothing ren- ders the parts fo quickly callous as lead ; and befides, it is more cleanly than a cord or tent of any fofter fubftance.J05 Sed. I. Difeafes of the Ears, CHAPTER XV. Of the Difeafes of the Ears, and Opera- tions praBifed upon them. SECTION I. Of Deafnefs, DEafness may proceed from various caufes: For as a free ^paflage of found to the Tympanum or Drum of the ear, together with a found ftate of this membrane and of the parts conneded with it, are requifite for the fenfe of hearing, VoL. V. G foic6 Difeafes of the Ears. Chap. XV^ fo whatever tends to obflrudl the one, or to induce difeafes of the other, will ne- ceiTarily excite deafnefs. Two paflages are appropriated for the purpofe of conveying found to the ear ; one of them termed the Meatus Externiis, terminating in the external ear ^ and the other the Tuba Euftachiana, ending in the throat. It is true that the firfl; of thefe is of more importance than the other, for it is larger, and more conveniently placed for collecting found : But it is cer- tain that the latter or internal paflage is a very neceflary part of the organ of hearing ^ for when by any means it is flopped, deafnefs to a greater or lefler _ degree almoft conflantly enfues.. Thus we obferve, that any preternatural ful- nefs or enlargement of the amygdalae, erpecially when they are attacked with in- flammation,. is always attended with fome degree of deafnefs. In this way, too, we account for 'that deafnefs to which pa- tients are liable who have fuffered much from venereal ulcers in the throat 5 and a polypousSed:. !• Difeafes of the Ears. loj polypous excrefcences that extend back from the nofe and faucefs, by compreffing the Euftachian tube, are frequently pro-» dudive of fimilar confequences. In that variety of deafnefs which ori- ginates from this caufe, a removal of the polypus, or fwelled amigdalae, will frequently accomplifli a cure, while no other remedy can be of any avail. But when the difeafe Is induced either by an ulcerated date of thefe parts, or by much inflammation, as the extremity of the dud will probably be obliterated, it would be in vain to employ any means of cure. It has indeed been propofed in this variety of obilrudion, to endeavour to open the dud, by inferring the end of a curved blunt probe into it, or even to injed milk and water, or any other mild fluid,^ into it, with a curved fyringe. But although a perfon well acquainted with the anatomy of the parts, may, by much pradice, arrive at fuch perfedion as to be able to do this with little difficulty upon a dead body, there is no reafon to G 2 imagineDifeafes of the Ears. Chap. XV. io8 imagine that in pradlice any advantage will ever be derived from it: For even in a healthy ftate of thefe parts, the ir- ritation produced by the end of a probe or of a fyringe muft be fo confiderable as to render every attempt for inferting them very uncertain ; and the difficulty muft neceflarily be increafed where the extremity of the dud is obftruded by dif- eafe. But if we have not much in our power in the treatment of deafnefs arifing from this caufe, we are in many inftances able to afford much relief, and even to re- ftore the moft perfed hearing where it has been entirely wanting, wffien the difeafe arifes from obftrudion in the external paffage of the ear. The meatus externus may be obftruded in various ways. It may be in an imper- forated ftate at birth ;—it may be more or lefs filled with extraneous bodies forced into it ^—tumors or excrefcences may form in it 3—and it may be too much fluffed with wax, the natural, fecretion of the part. As each of thefe caufes requires a methodSefl. I. Difeafes of the Ears. icp method of treatment peculiar to Itfelf, I Ihall confider them under feparate heads. ^1, Of an Imperforated Meatus Auditorius. Among other natural deficiencies to which the human body is liable, none oc- curs more frequently than an imperforated ftate of fome of the paflages. This does not fo frequently happen in the Meatus Auditorius as in others, owing perhaps to the lining membrane of this pailage being every where attached to bone, by which it is prevented from collapfing. Notwith- ftanding, however, of this, different in- ftances have occurred of it, and fome va- riety is difcovered in the nature of it. In fome cafes the obftrudlion is formed by a thin membrane fpread over the mouth of the pailage 5 while in others a confi- derable part of the conduit is entirely filled with a firm flelhy kind of fubftance. In the treatment of this variety of deafnefs, nothing can prove ufeful but the removal of the caufe by an operation. G 3 WhenIIG Difeafes of the Ears. Chap. XV. When this is agreed to, the patient’s head fhould be fecured in a proper light, and at a convenient height, by an affiflant; when the operator, with a fmall fliarp^ pointed biftoury, fliould make an in- cifion of a proper length exadtly on the fpot where the external paflage of the ear fhould terminate. When covered by a membrane only, the operation will foon be finiflied; but when Impervious to any great depth, the incifion mufl: be continued,.by palling the biftoury in a gradual manner farther in, either till the refiftance Is re- moved, or till there is reafon to fear that the tympanum would be hurt, if it were carried deeper : In which cafe the Inftru- ment ftiould be withdrawn ; and in order to prevent the parts from adhering to- gether,. a bit of bougie properly oiled fliould be introducedy^ and retained till the cure is completed ; care being taken to remove it daily for the purpofe of cleaning it, and for wiping off any mat- ter that may have colledted in the ear, InIll Sed. I. Difenfes of the Ears.' In this manner deafnefs depending up- on this caufe may often be removed when the obftrudion lies between the tympa- num and the farther extremity of the meatus externus ; a^id it fliould be always attempted about the time when the child Ihould be beginning to fpeak. At a more early period, the child would not be fo able to bear it ^ and when delayed much later, the fpeech would be impeded; for we know that dumbnefs depends more fre- quently on a want of hearing than on any other caufe. % 2. Of Extraneous Bodies impaSed in the Ear. Although the vifcid nature of the wax of the ears is well calculated for preventing dull and other foreign mat- ters from palling into them, yet we know that much dillrefs is in fome inftances in- duced by this caufe. Children often pulh fmall peas, cherry-ftones, lead-drops, and other fjch^ articles into their ea|*s, and G 4 flies112 Difeafes of the Ears. Chap. XV. flies and other infeds frequently creep into them. When thefe lie near to the end of the paflage, flies and other things that can be laid hold of fhould be extraded with finall forceps, fuch as are delineated in Plate XLVIII. fig. 2. But peas and other round bodies are more eafily removed, by turning them out with the end of a curved probe, or palling the end of the inftrument, Plate XXV. fig. I. behind them; and their extradion is facilitated by a little oil being previoufly dropped into the paflage. When infeds have got fo far into the ear that they cannot be taken out with for- ceps, the befl: method of removing them is to wafli them out, by throwing in quan- tities of warm water, or any other mild li- quid, with a fyringe; but as they adhere while living with confiderable firmnefs to the neighbouring parts, we fhould firfl: en- deavour to kill them, by filling the ear with oil, or any other liquid that proves poifonous to them without injuring the tympanum. Lime-water, fpirit of wine, and113 SecS. I. Difeajes of the Ears^ and other liquids, might be employed for this piirpofe : But nothing proves fo harm- lefs as oil; and although it does not kill every fpecies of infed: inftantaneoufly, yet few of them will live if immerfed in it for any length of time. The pa- tient fhould therefore be defired to reft his head upon the oppofite fide 3 and fome tepid oil being poured into the affeded ear, it may thus be eafily kept in it as long as is necelTary. Peas and other foft bodies that fwell with moifture, are apt to become fo large when they remain long in the ear, that they cannot but with much difficulty be extraded entire. In this cafe we ftiould endeavour to break them, either with the points of fmall forceps, or with a fliarp fmall hook cautioufly introduced along the paifage; and as foon as they are fuf- ficiently divided, they muft either be ta- ken out piece-meal with forceps, or waffl- ed out with a fyringe. §3.114 Difeafes of the Ears. Chap. XV. § 3* Of Excrefcences in the Meatus Audit or ius. I HAVE already treated of polypi in the nofe and throat; and I may now remark, that the external paffage of the ear is equally expofed to them. It is not in- deed common for this kind of excrefcence in the ear to arrive at fuch a bulk as they do in the nofe; but whoever has paid at- tention to this branch of pra6tice, will acknowledge, that they are by no means unfrequent, and . they often appear to be the caufe of very obftinate deafnefs. On looking into the Meatus Auditorlus, we fometimes find it filled with a poly- pous excrefcence hanging loofe by one pedicle 5 while at other times the paffage appears to be obfiruded merely by a thicknefs or fulnefs of the lining mem- brane of the ear, when no particular part of it is more difeafed than another. As polypi of this part are ufually of a firmer texture' than polypi in the nofe, andSed. I. Difeafes of the Ears, 115 and as the membrane of the ear is firm, and does not readily yield, they cannot with propri ty be extracted with forceps; but they may- be taken out either with the knife, or with a ligature. When they lie near to the entrance of the exter- nal pafTage of the ear, and can be laid hold of either with fmall forceps, or with the dilTeaing hook, Plate XXXVIII. fig. 5. they may be cut out with the probe« pointed biftoury, reprefented in Plate XXXIX. fig. 3. and as they do not ap- pear to be fo vafcular as fimllar excref- cences in the nofe, they may in this manner be removed with fafety ; for they feldom difcharge much blood. But when they lie deep, it is better to remove them with ligatures ; for as the pafTage is ftrait, a knife is in this fituation introduced with difficulty, and ufed with uncertainty. Various methods have been propofed for applying ligatures to excrefcences in this fituation ; but the method of remo- ving polypi of the nofe, defcribed in the explanation of Plate XXXIII. appears to • bq116 Difeafes of the Ears* Chap. XV. be the beft. With the forked probe, fig. 2. the doubling of a ligature may be pufiied up at one fide of the polypus till it reaches the root of It; and the two ends of the thread being carried round the excrefcence, and inferred into a Ihort double canula, fuch as is delineated in Plate XXXI. fig. I. the canula fliould then be puflied to the root of the polypus on the oppofite fide; when the two end^ of the ligature being drawn fufficiently tight, and fixed upon the knobs at the end of the tube, the probe may be with* drawn, and the polypus will drop off in a day or two. But it often happens, that thefe ex- crefcences cannot be removed in this man- ner ; for inftead of being pendulous by a fmall neck, they frequently extend to a confiderable depth along the lining mem- brane of the ear. In this cafe efcharo- tlcs have been recommended: But as they cannot be employed but with much rifk of hurting the tympanum, they fhould never be ufed ; and this efpecially, asSe£t. L Bifeafes of the Ears, 117 as the difeafe may in general be removed by means of a more Ample nature. This affedlion of the membrane of the ear I confider to be exa6lly fimilar to that va- riety of obftru6Hon in the urethra in which bougies prove particularly ufeful; and the fame remedy, when duly perfift- ed in, proves equally ferviceable in the one difeafe as in the other. In the intro- duilion of the bougie, care muft be taken not to pafs it to the depth of the tympa- num, otherwife it may do* more harm than good; and the fize of it muft from time to time be enlarged till the paflage becomes fufficiently open. When bougies are firft palled into the ear, they always create fome degfee of uneafinefs, by irritating the parts to which they are applied ; but this foon fubfides when they are ufed with caution, and properly oiled before being introduced. §4.118 Difeafes of the Ears. Chap. X §4. 0/' Beafnefs from Wax colleBed in the „ Ears. Whether it is from the lining mem- brane of the ear being pofTeffed of fome degree of a contradile power, or from the outwai’d extremity of the paifage be- ing fomewhat lower than the other, that the cerumen or wax does not ufually lodge in it, is perhaps difficult to deter- mine 3 but it is certain, that in a healthy ftate of thefe parts they are ufually very thinly covered with this fecretion : Deaf* nefs in a certain degree is very common- ly induced by the paffage of the ear being fluffed with wax^ for in this ftate it very effedually obftruds the paftage of found to the tympanum. It commonly happens too when wax remains long colleded in the ear, that it becomes thick, and even hard, infommch that in fome inftances it becomes almofl as firm a»s a bit of timber*^ TheSedt. I. Difeafes of the Ears. 119 The treatment of deafnefs arifing from this caufe is obvious. By an attentive examination of the ear, we can diftin- guifh with certainty whether there is a fuperabundance of wax or not : For by placing the ear in a clear fun-fliine, we can fee even to the tympanum j and whenever the paflage is much obftrudled with wax, we fhould not hefitate in ad- vifing it to be removed. Different methods^ have been propofed for clearing the ears of wax y but the fa- fefl and eafieft is to wafh or fyringe them with warm v/ater or any other mild li- quid. Milk and water, or foap and wa- ter, anfwer the purpofe : But before the operation a few drops of oil fhould be poured into the ear, not with a view to diffolve the wax, for more powerful folvents of this fubftance might be men- tioned ; but for the purpofe of lubrica- ting the paffage, by which t?he wax is more eafily forced out. By a proper ufe of the fyringe, which experience alone can teach, the ears may be entirely clear- ed120 Difeafes of the Ears. Chap. XV. ed of every obftruftion produced by wax. Although obftru£Hon of the external palTage of the ear is the mofl: frequent caufe of deafnefs y yet it is proper to know, that in fome inftances it is produ- ced in a different manner. It may occur from a morbid ftate of the tympanum, and of the parts contained within it. To a certain degree it will take place, if either by accident or difeafe the external parts of the ear are deftroyed; and it fome- times occurs from a deficiency of wax. The finall bones of the ears fometimes become, difeafed in fcrophula, and the deafnefs that enfues from this is never in any inftance removed. In ,Tuch cafes all that art can do, is to preferve the parts clean and free from fmell, which is mofl effedually^done by wafhing out evening and morning any matter that happens to colled in the paflage, by throwing in warm 'milk and water with a fyringe: For if this is negleded, the matter difchar- ged from the carious bones foon becomes 3 ' offenfive;12% Se6l. I, Difeafes of the Ears. ofFenfive ^ and it continues to be fo either till the difeafed parts* of the bones are en- tirely dlffolved and dlfcharged, or per^ haps during the life of the patient. We ought not, however, to confound thh difeafe with a dlfcharge that frequent- ly takes place from the ears, of a milder nature. In fome cafes this appears to be the confequence of a boil or abfcefs in themaeatus externus ^ while in others it takes place without any previous impoft- hume, and feems to be induced by fome flight Inflammatory affedion of the li- ning membrane of the ear, or perhaps of the tympanum itfelf. This Is a very common oceurrence, and for the moll part I think it is improperly treated. In general it is fuppofed to ori- ginate from morbid humours in the fy- ftem ; fo that fome ri/k is fuppofed to at- tend any attempt that may be made for putting a flop to it. This however is wrong. In moll in- ftances the dlfcharge may be traced to the caufe I have mentioned, an inflamma- VoL. V. H tory122 Bifeafes of the Ears. Ghap. XV^ tory afFedlion of the membrane of the ear; which being of a local nature, no rifk can enfue from checking it. And accordingly I very commonly treat it with injedions that are moderately aftrin- gent, nearly fuch as often prove elFeflual in putting a flop to the difcharge of a go- norrhoea. A weak folution of alum, or of faccharum faturni, frequently anfwers, or French brandy fomewhat diluted. In fome cafes, pouring a few drops of any of thefe into the ears, morning and evening, proves fufficient; but when this fails, they fnould be gently thrown in with a fyringe. It is proper to remark, that the more early in'the difeafe this pra6lice is em- ployed, the more effedlual it ufually proves; fo that it fhould never be long delayed. And befides, when the dif- charge has been of long duration, it not only doe^ harm, by relaxing, or even de- ftroying the tympanum, but fome riik may arife from a fudden flop being put to an evacuation to which the fyftem has for fpmeSed. I. Difeafes of the Eat's. 123 fome time been accuftomed. The dan- ger, however, may be obviated by the previous Introdudion of an ifliie fome- what adequate to the difcharge from the ear, either in the head, neck, or any other part ^ but in recent cafes there, is no neceffity for putting the patient to the inconvenience of an iflue; for here the difcharge may with fafety be flopped im- ipediately. When deafnefs takes place either from relaxation of the tympanum, or from any deficiency in the external parts of the ear, fome afliflance may be derived from our endeavouring to colled or concen- trate found fo as to make a flronger im- preflion on the organ of hearing. Vari- ous inflruments have been invented for this purpofe 3 but none of them anfwers fo well as one nearly of the form of a common horn, fuch as is reprefented in Plate LII. fig. 2. Figure i. is a convo- luted tube employed for the fame pur- pofe ^ and fig. 3. reprefents an Inflrument intended to be concealed beneath the hair H 2T 24 Difeafes of the Zars^ Chap. XV. or wig, and to be fixed to the head by the two firings conneded with it. When, a^ain, a defi-ciency of wax is fufpeded to be the caufe of deafnefs, dropping a little oil of almonds, or any other mild oil into the ear, once or twice daily, proves fometimes ufeful. In fome cafes too I have known advantage deri- ved from a little foft foap being Inferted into the paflage 3 which not only keeps it moift, but by ading as a ftimulus to the lining naembrane of the ear, it tends thus to induce a return of the fecretion of wax. With the fame view too, I have fome- times employed firained galbanum made into a proper confifience with oil, along with a fmall proportion of the juice of an onion. S E C-125 Se<S. Ill Difeafes of the Kai s. section III Of perforating the Loles of the Ears* By medical writers of the lafl: and pre« ceding centuries, pierging the lobes of the ears is recommended as an opera- tion that may prove ufeful in different difeafes, particularly in affedions of the head. In thofe times a fmall feton was drawn through the opening, with a view to induce a difcharge of matter, which iri fome cafes might prove ufefuL At pre- fent this operation is never employed but for the purpofe of ornament. This is perhaps the moft fimple of all operations ^ but as it is fuppofed to be of fome importance by thofe on whom it is pradifed, it is neceffary to defcribe iti As heavy ear-rings are apt to tear the parts, the opening Ihould be made as high oU the lobe as with propriety it can be H 3 done 3126 Difeafes of the Ears. Chap. XV. done; and the fpot fhould be prevloully marked with ink.’ The patient being " feated, and the head feeured by an aflift- ant, the lobe of the ear fliould be ftretch- ed upon a piece of cork placed beneath it. The furgeon is now to pierce it with the inftrument, fig. 6. Plate LII. and ha- ving puihed it fo far through that the tubular part of it is freely perceived on the oppofite fide, the cork mufl: h6 with-^ drawn with the perforator ftuck into it^ A fmall piece of lead-wire is now to be inferted into the tube remaming in the ear 3 and on being drawn into the perfb-* ration, the lead muft be left in it.< By moving it daily, which may be done with little or no pain if it is previoufly rubbed with oil, the palTage will foon be- come callous, and thus the operation is completed^ Before concluding the chapter on tne difeafes and operations upon the ears, it may be expedled that I Ihould defcribe the method of cauterifing or burning be^ hind127 SeiS. Ili DifeUfes of the Ears. hind the ears for the toothach. At one period this operation was much employ* fed, and different inftruments were propo- fed for doing it. It is unneceffary, how- ever, to delineate any of them ^ for the. praflice is now, I prefume, very gene- rally laid afide : And at any rate it may be done with a red hot probe of any kind equally well as with the neateft inlirumfent. It was fuppoifed to prove ufeful by burning or deftroying the nerve producing the pain : But it would rather Appear to ad: by inducing terror or fur* prife ^ and if this is the cafe, it is pro- bable that the fame operation would prove effedual if pradifed in any other part. But as the pain attending it would by moft people be confidered as more fevere even than the pulling of a tooth, it is not probable that it will ever be revived. H4 CHAP-128 Of the Wry Neck. Chap. XVL CHAPTER XVL Of the Wry Neck^ HE Neck is fametimes confiderabljr bent to one fide : When this takes place to filch a degree as to be produdivc of much deformity, the affiftance of fuf- gery becomes neceflary. The Wry Neck may be produced in va- rious ways. It may depend upon an ori- ginal mal-conformatlon of the bones of the neck.—Upon a preternatural degree of Gontradion in the mufcles of one fide of the neck, particularly of the fterno- maftoideus mufcle :—Or, it may be indu^ ced. merely by a contradion of the Ikin,^^ in confequence of extenfive lores and burns. 3 WhenChap. XVI. Of the Wry Neck. 129 When the vertebrae of the neck are diftorted, it would be in vain to attempt any means of relief; but either of the other caufes I have mentioned feem to admit of almoft a certain removal. In books of Surgery the operation for the wry neck is very commonly defcrl* bed ; and as this deformity has in gene- ral been Imagined to proceed folely from a contraded date of the fterno-maftoid mufcle^ a divilion of this mufcle is ufual* ly recommended as the only mean^ to be truft^d. Even Mr Sharpe was of this opinion; and he delineates an inftrument termed a Probe-razor for performing the operation But were we even to admit that the divilion of this mufcle was a necellary meafure, the method of doing it by intro- ducing the probe-razor beneath it and di- viding it afterwards^ appears to be excep- tionable^ as being attended with much rilk of wounding the contiguous blood-veflels 2 It would furely be better to divide the mulcle * Vide Sharpe's Surgery, Ch^ap, XXiVoOf the Wry Neck. Chap. XVI. 130 mufcle by repeated ftrokes of a fcalpely and to continue the incifion In a gradual manner to fuch a depth as may be necef- fary ^ by which even the large veins of the neck might be avoided. But although we allow that a wry neck may be fome- times produced by a contraction of this mufcle, yet it appears to be a rare oc- currence : I have now met with many in- ftances of this deformity, and in all of them the contraction feemed to be in the ikin alone. When the fkin only is affeCled, the parts are more ealilySeparated and with lefs rllk than when any of the deep-feated mufcles are to be divided: But even this fliould be flowly done, fo as to avoid the exter- nal jugular veins 3 for although no great detriment might enfue from their being cut, they ihould never be wounded unne- ceflarily. But whether the caufe of con- traction is feated in the fterno-maftoid mufcles or In the Ikin, the incifion fliould be carried fo deep as to remove it effect tually^Chap. XVI- Of the Wry NecL 131 mally, otherwife little or no advantage will be gained by the operation. We ought not, however, to conclude, that our objedt is accomplilhed on the contraded parts being divided; for un- iefs fome method is employed to fup- port the head during the cure of the fore, it will ftill be apt to incline more to this fide than to the other, by which the parts newly divided will readily unite, fo that no advantage will be derived from the incifion. By Mr Sharpe and others we are indeed advifed to ftuif the fore with lint, fo as to prevent this inconveilience with as much certainty as poflible 5 but I know from experience that this does not fucceed, and that nothing will anfwer but a firm fupport being given to the head. For this purpofe the inftrument reprefent- ed in Plate LIV. fig. i. anfwers well : It was made for a cafe of this kind, in which it was ufed for feveral weeks, and with complete fuccefs. It Ihould always be worn not only till the fore is healed, but for fome time thereafter; and if properlyof the Wry Neck Chap, XVI, 132 CH AP- properly fitted to the parts upon which it refts, it is ufed with no kind of unea- finefs. The fkln beneath the chin is fometimes fo much contracted in confequence of* burns and other caufes, as to draw the head confiderably down upon the breafl: The fame method of cure muft be prac- tifed for It that I have juft recommended for the wry neck. The contraded fkin muft be freely divided with a fcalpel, and the head properly fupported from behind til the fore is cicatrifed.Chap. XVIL Of Bronchotomy. 133 CHAPTER * XVIL Of Broncbotomy- WHEN refplratlon becomes much obftruded and endangers the exi- flence of the patient, and when this ap- pears to proceed from a local affection of the fuperior pgrt of the wind-pipe, an operation commonly termed Bronchoto- my is employed for relief.—But as this confifts in an opening made into the tra- chea, and not into the bronchiae, it ought more-properly to be named Tracheoto- my. This operation has in general been fup- pofed to be of a more dangerous natpre that it really is ^ and this has prevented praiftitioners134* Of Bronchotomy, Chap/XVIL pradltioners from advlfing it fo frequent- ly as they otherwife would have done.— By many, it is faid to be feldom necefla- ry^ and even fome authors of eminence have ailerted, that it is ufeful only in that fpecies of angina, where the throat is exceedingly enlarged by the fwelling of the thyroid gland and parts adjacent:’^ Thefe are the words of Mr Sharp in his treatife on this fubjedt^.—But it is evi- dent, that in this inftance Mr Sharp has written without duly confidering the fub- jedl. For, although a fwelling of the thyroid gland may become fo large as entirely to comprefs the trachea, and may thus render bronchotomy necelTary, yet this is furely a rare occurrence ^ few pradlitioners have probably met with it; and there are not many, I prefume, who hay,e not performed the operation on other accounts.—The danger that once "^as fuppofed to attend it is not now dreaded, and accordingly it is more fre- quently Operations in Surgery, Chap. XXXLChap. XVII. Of Broncb/)tomy, 135 quently advifed ^ but ftill there is reafon to think, that it fhould be oftener prac- tifed than it has hitherto been. The caufes that may render this ope- ration neceffary are : I. Spafmodic afFedlions of the mufcles of the larynx, when they arrive at fuch a height as to endanger fulFocation : In fome cafes of catarrh, the mucus of thefe parts becomes fo acrid, as to irritate the glottis in a moft • difagreeable manner. Even from this kind of irritation, it is evident by the fenfe of fuffocation that fometimes occurs, that a confiderable de- gree of contradlion is produced in the glottis: But this takes place in a more alarming degree, from hard fubftances of any kind palling below the epiglottis into the larynx; infomuch, that from this caufe alone, fuffocation has, in various inftan- ces, happened. Among others that might be recited, a remarkable hiftory is record- ed by Borietus, of a child having died from a piece of bone palling into the trachea arteria; and it has often happen- ed,Of Bronchotomy. Chap. XVII. ed, that children, and even older people have been fufFocated by nut-fliells, crufts of bread, and other fubftances, pafling in- to the trachea. It has been alleged, that no alarming degree.of contraiftion in the glottis can ever take place; and it has even been faid, that the mufcles with which it is furniflied are not adequate to this efFedl. This opinion, however, originates from the very relaxed ftate in which thefe muf- cles are found after death : Which is not by any means a fair method of judging; for we know .well, that all the mufcles in the body are after death found in a ftate of relaxation, however feverely they may previoufly have been contradied. 2. A piece of bone, flefti, or any other firm fubftance, being lodged in the pha- rynx, or in the upper part of the oefopha- gus, and being too large to pafs down to the ftomach, may by its bulk comprefs tho pofterior and menabranous part of the trachea, in fuch a manner as to produce ^ total obftrudion to the paftTage of air into137 Chap. XVII. Of Bronchotomy. into the lungs. DifFerent inftaBces have occurred in this place, of fuffocation be- ing induced by a piece of flefh lodging in the fuperior part of the pharynx^ for in fuch inftances, it commonly happens that patients are irrecoverably dead before any affiftance can be procured. I have my- felf met with feveral inftances of this, in all of which the utmoft certainty was ob- tained of refpiration having been obftrud:- ed for a few minutes only; and yet none of the people recovered, although all the means ufually employed in fuch cafes were immediately put in pradice. But in all there was reafon to think, that bronchoto- my would have proved effedual, had it been poffible to procure more fpeedy af- fiftance. ‘ The event of thefe cafes, as well as of fome others of drowned perfons, in whom refpiration had been obftrudted for a very fhort period only, and in whom every method now known was put in prac- tice for their recovery, makes me con-* elude, that few, if any, have ever reco- VoL. V. I vered13^ Of^Brojichototny. Chap. XVII, vered in whom refplratlon has been to- tally obllruded for more than a few mi- nutes. After all the attention that I have been able to give to cafes of this nature, I would fay, that a complete interruption to breathe ing, for the fpace of five minutes only, muft, in perhaps every inftance, prove fa- tal. We have heard indeed of the reco- very of many drowned people after they had been half an hour, nay even hours, under water: But thefe accounts of the time which bodies have remained immer- fed are feldom accurately obtained, from the general inclination in byfianders to exaggerate, as well as from other caufes; fo that little pr no credit is in general dug to them. 3. Polypous excreCcences in the nofe have been known to fall fo far into the pharynx as to endanger fuflfocation; and it. very .commonly happens that thefe tu- ipora, which originate either from the uvula or from the fiiperior part of the pha- rynx,Chap. XVII. Of Bronchotomy. 139 rynx, kre attended with this effect ^ in all of thefe, when, extirpation with a liga- ture is to be attempted, if the tumor is large, it is with much difficulty that the neceffary apparatus is applied. This, how- ever, may be much facilitated by a pre- vious opening of the trachea, which ad- mits of an eafy refpiration, while the li- gature is forming round the bafe of the tumor. 4. Tumors of a firm texture, particu- larly thofe of the fchirrous and flefhy kinds, even when feated externally, have been known to comprefs the trachea fo much as to obftrudl refpiration almoft en- tirely : When they are fo fituated as to cover all the acceffible part of the tra- chea, and which, in the latter ftages of the tumor termed Bronchocele, is too fre- quently the cafe, this operation is in- admiffible; but much benefit may be de- rived from it whenever it can with fafety be performed. 5. An inftance is mentioned by Dr Richter, of an inflammation of the tongue I 2 arriving140 Of Bronchotomy, Chap. XVII. arriving at fuch a height as entirely to obftruft the paffage to the fauces; and different inftances have occurred of mer- curial falivations, when carried too far, inducing fuch a tumefied ftate of the glands in the mouth and throat, as to be attended with the fame effed:. In one cafe that 1 met with feveral years ago, and in which the glands of the throat were naturally large, fuch complete ob- ftrudion was produced to the palTage of the air, as required the aid of this ope- ration to fave the patient. In this in- ftance, fuch a quantity of mercury had been quickly thrown in, that the fuel- ling of thefe glands arrived at an alarm- ing height in the fpace of a few hours from its commencement ^ and although all the remedies ufually employed in fuch cafes were put in pradice, none of them had any effed : The operation was, con- trary to my opinion, delayed till the pa- tient was almofl: completely fuffocated; but he revived inftantly on the perfora- tion being made. 6, SwellingsChap. XVII. Of Bronchotomy, ' 141 6. Swellings of the amygdalae and con- tiguous parts, that 'do not terminate fpee- dily in fuppuration, when they become large, are apt to induce an obftruded re- fpiration; and may thus render broncho- tomy necefTary. It is not fuch tumors, however, as originate entirely from in- flammation that mofl: frequently proceed this length : Hard fwellings of the amyg- dalae, when attacked with inflammation, are fometimes known to produce fuch tu« mors in the ffauces as entirely fhut up I the palTage, which none of the ufual re- I medies will remove 3 and which there- I fore require the aid of this operation. But in real inflammatory tumors of thefe parts, conftituting the angina inflamma- toria of authors, unlefs the glands have been morbidly enlarged bdfbre the com- mencement of inflammation, the fwelling will feldom, or perhaps never, proceed to fuch a height as to require it. When fwellings of this kind do become large, we alinofl; conftantly find that they do fo from their having gone into a ftate of I 3 fuppuration,of Bronchotomy^ Chap. XVII. 142 fuppuratlon, when relief may be obtain- ed by means of a more fimple nature than bronchotomy, namely, by difcharging the matter contained in the tumor by an in- cifion or a pundture. A common fcalpel or biftoury, wrapped all up with a piece of linen except at the point, is generally ufed for pundturing the amygdalae and other parts of the fauces; but no precau- tion whatever will render this a fafe in- ftrument for thefe purpofes. In Plates XL. and LVII. are r.eprefented different forms of canulas, containing concealed lancets, which every furgeon ought to have, as by means of them any part of the throat may be fcarified with fafe- ty. 7. Among the means employed for re- ftoring the circulation in people who have been long under water, or where refpira- tion has been obftruded in any other manner, blowing air into the lungs, and repeatedly difcharging it, is perhaps more to be depended on than any other; for the adion which is thus given to the lungs ISChap. XVIL Of Bronchotomy. 143 is readily communicated to the heart it- felf. The ufual method of throwing air into the lungs in fuch cafes,/is by blowing forcibly into the mouth while the noftrils are compreiTed 3 or by means of a curved tube inferred at one of the noftrils, fo as to make its extremity ter- minate immediately above the glottis* But although one or other of thefe me- thods may in fome inftances anfwer the purpofe of filling the lungs with air, yet I know from experience that it will not commonly fucceed. In two different in- ftances of people who had been each of them a few minutes under water, fcvferal attempts of this kind were made for throwing air into the cheft. But, either from fome contra<ftion of the epiglottis, or of the fuperior part of the larynx, none of them were found to fucceed 3 and as bronchotomy was in both cafes obliged to be performed for effedting it, T am therefore warranted in mentioning this as one caufe that may render it neceffa- ry. 14 When,Of Bronchotomy. Chap, XVIL. 144 When, from any of thefe caufes, re- fplration becomes fo much obftruded as to endanger the patient’s tsxiftence, bron- chotomy fhould be immediately advifed; and the meth^ of performing it is this. Whenever it is found neceflary to have a patient firmly fecured during an opera- tion, he fhould always be placed upon a. table; and as this is a matter of much importance in bronchotomy, a table fhould be preferred to a chair. The pa- tient being laid upon a table, with his head drawn back and limbs fecured by afliftants, a longitudinal incifion fhould be made with a fcalpel through the fkin and cellular fubftance on the middle and inferior part ©f the trachea, beginning at the inferior part of the thyroid cartilage, and proceeding downwards for the fpace of an inch. The flerno-thyroidei mufcles are thus brought into view; and being, feparated from one another, a confider- able portion of the thyroid gland is in. this manner laid bare. As this gland is. ^ plentifullyChap. XVn. Of Bronchotomy^ ' 145 plentifully fupplied with blood-veflelsy and as a divifion of any of tliefe proves always troublefome, and in fome inftan- ces even dangerous, it ought with much attention to be guarded againft. This may commonly be eafily done, by avoid- ing the inferior portion of the gland where the two lobes of which it is com- pofed unite, and finifhing the operation at the upper part of it where they fepa- rate. In order, too, to guard as much as poflible againft the inconvenience that arifes from the divifion of the arteries of this gland, the incifion fliould be very flowly performed ^ and as the veflels are of fuch a magnitude as to be perceptible to the naked eye, they may with due care be always avoided. The cellular fubftance lying between thefe portions of the gland being cautiouf- ly removed, the trachea is thus laid bare ; and if no large blood-veflel has been di- vided, the operation may be immediate- ly finifhed, by making an opening be- tween146 Of Bronchotomy. Chap. XVII. tween any two of the cartilages. But if any large artery has been cut, it muft be fecured with a ligature before going further. Authors differ much in their opinion of the beft manner of ^finifli- ing this part of the operation. By fome we are delired to make an opening with a fcalpel, while others prefer for this purpofe the point of a lancet y and by all, the perforation is advifed to be of fuch a fize as to receive a tube or ca- nula of filver, through which a quantity of air may be tranfmitted fully fufEcient for the purpofe of refpiration. But as much mifchief enfues from blood getting into the trachea, by the convulfive cough which it induces ^ and as this can fcarce- ly be prevented in the ufual manner of performing the operation, it has been propofed to employ a cutting inftrument adapted to a canula of a proper fize for being left in the opening. Defcriptions of inftruments for this purpofe may be met with in the works of the ingenious DrChap. XVII. Of Broncbotomy. 147 Dr Richter of Gottingen to which I have already referred, and alfo in the fourth volume of the Memoirs of the Royal Academy of Surgery of Paris by Mr Bauchot. An inftrument which I confider as an improvement upon thefe, is delineated in Plate XXIII. fig. 3. It is nearly of the form of a flat trocar, but not quite fo long. The patient’s head being ftill fupported and fomewhat drawn back;, the point of the ftilette muft be made to penetrate the membrane between two of the cartila- ges 5 and the extremity of the canula be- ing puflied fairly into the trachea, the ftilette is to be withdrawn, and the ca- nula afterwards fecuredby apiece of tape connedled with it, being tied on the back of the neck. The inftrument is here reprefented without incumbrances from the dref- fings y but before being introduced, it fliould * Vide Augufti Gottlieb. Richteri D. Medicinae Pro- felToris Gottingenfis obferv. chirurg. Fafcicul. fecu^id. cap, iii.—Gottingag 1776.148 Of Bronchotomy. Chap. XVII. fhould be pafled through the centre of three or four thin linen comprefTes ; Thefe not only ferve to cover the pledgit of emollient ointment with which the wound fliould be proteded after the fti- lette is withdrawn, but by withdrawing one or more of them, which may be eali- ly done without moving the inftrument, merely by cutting up their fides with a pair of fciflars, the length of the canula may thus be augmented at pleafure; and which, in the event of the parts about the wound becoming fwelled, is found to be a very important precaution: For when negleded, a very flight tumefadion on the fides of the fore will throw the ca- nula out. The canula fliould therefore be always of fuch a length as may ob- viate the inconvenience that might enfue from this acceflion of fwelling. For this purpofe, it fliould never be lefs than two inches long: When firfl: introduced, juft as much of its extremity fliould be left uncovered by the compreflTes as admits of its palling eafily into the trachea. If"' any149 Chap. XVIL Of Bronchotomy. any fwelling takes place, one, two, or more plies of the linen being cut off, will ftill admit of the canula penetrating to the fame depth ^ and, on the contrary, when it happens that the parts are fwel- led at the time of the operation, as the quantity of tube lodged in the trachea might be too much increafed by the fwel- ling fubfiding, the inconvenience that would otherwife enfue may be eafily pre- vented, by fome additional plies of linen being inferted between any two of the compreffes. By experience we learn, that a double canula anfwers better in this operation than a fingle one. When one tube only is ufed, it is apt to fill with mucus 3 and as it muft frequently be taken out for the removal of this, refpiration is in the mean time apt to be interrupted; But when a double tube is employed, the in- ner canula can be eafily removed, clean- ed, and replaced ^ while every inconve- nience that would otherwife refult from this is prjevented by the other being left in150 Of Bronchototny. Chap. XVII. in the opening. When, therefore, the outer canula of the tube Is properly fix- ed, the other having been prevloufly a- dapted to it^ and the opening In the ca- nula being covered with a piece of crape or fine mullln, to prevent the admiflion of dull, the operation is In this manner completed. As the Intention of this operation Is to obviate the Inconveniencies arlfing from an obilruded refpiration. It is evident that the canula fhould be continued In the wound as long as the caufe exifts that firft gave rife to it. If a piece of bone or any other fubftance has palled into the tra- chea, and if this cannot be extraded at the' opening newly made, a curved probe Ihould be introduced at it, in order to afcercain the fituation of the extraneous body > and this being done, another per- foration mull be made diredly above it^ In this manner, this caufe of the difeafe may, in fome inllances, be removed, and when obftrudlons of a different kind are found to have produced it, the means bell adaptedChap. XVII. Of Broncbotomy. adapted for the nature of thefe fhould be immediately exployed. But till the breath- ing becomes perfedlly leafy, the canula mufl: be continued: And when at laft it is judged proper to withdraw it, the Ikin fliould be immediately drawn over the orifice, and retained there with a piece of adhefive plaller, by which means a cure of the fore will foon be obtained. Dr Richter, among other improve- ments upon this operation, advifes the canula to be curved; but, in the diffe- rent inftances in which I have had occa- fion to perform this operation, none of the inconveniencies occurred which the Dodlor fuppofes may proceed from em- ploying a flraight one: On the contrary, I have found the flraight canula anfwer every purpofe; and as a tube much cur- ved cannot have another exatdlly fitted to it to be occafiQnally inferted and with- drawn, this I think is a fiifficient reafon for not adopting the curved canula of Dr Richter. To152 of Bronchotomy. Chap. XVIL To fuch as have not had opportunities of performing this operation, the atten- tion that I have pointed out, to a proper regulation of the length of the canula may appear to be unneceflary. This, how- ever, is far from being the cafe^ and much embarraflhient would enfue from the negled of it. The means that I have recommended for this purpofe are Am- ple, are at all times eafily procured, and, upon trial, I have found that they anfwer the purpofe: But a very neat and ingeni- ous contrivance for the fame intention has long been exhibited by Dr Munro in his .courfe of furgery ^ and of which he has been fo obliging as to admit of a delineation being here given. It is re- prefented in Plate LVI. fig. i. CHAP. VChap. XVrit. Of Oefophagotomy. 153 CHAPTER XVIII Of Oefophagotomy. Substances are frequently taken in- to the pharynx, which, in pafling into the oefophagus, are too bulky to be forced down to the ftomach by the muf- cular exertion of the parts at which they flop. When any part of fubftances in this fituation can be obferved on looking into the pharynx, they are in general ealily removed with common forceps : But when they have pafled entirely out of the pharynx, and are lodged deep in the oefophagus, no advantage can be derived from this ^ and we are in fuch circum- ftances reduced to the neceflity either of VoL. V. K allowing154 Of Oefophagotomy. Chap. XVIII. allowing the fubftance to remain where it is fixed; of pulhing it into the fto- mach; or of extrading it by laying the oefophagus open. When the fubftance tefling in the oefo- phagus is of a foft texture, fuch as bread, cheefe, or even flefh, the eafiefl and moft prudent method of getting free of it is, to pufh it into the flomach with an in- flrument termed a Probang, Plate LVII; fig. I. and 2. This is muchfafer and eafier than to attempt to bring it up, as is fre- quently advifed, by a flrong emetic; for when this does not fucceed, the exertion of vomiting in this obflruded ftate of the oefophagus is very apt to do harm. But when a pin, a piece of fharp bone, or any other firm fubftance, is fixed in the paflage, we ftiould by no means at- tempt to pufh it down; for, by doing fo, if it does not go into the flomach, any point or roughnefs with which it is fur- niftied, n^ay be pufhed diredly into the fubftance of tfie oefophagus. IChap. XVIII. Of Oefophagotomy. 155 I think it neceflary to obferve, that this is a point of importance, and ought therefore to meet with attention. In every cafe of obftrudion of the oefopha- gus, arifing from fome foreign body be- ing fixed in it, it is almofl the univerfal practice to endeavour to pufli it into the ftomach. When the obflrudting fubflance is of a foft yielding nature, this may com- monly be done with fafety ^ but for the reafon that I have given, it will very fre- quently do mifchief when the fubflance is hard. In every cafe, therefore, where the pain produced by the obfirudion is not great \ if the breathing is not much af- feded; and if the paflage is flill fo per- vious as to permit the food to get down to the flomach, no attempt fhould be made for removing it; for we know from experience, that, in moll inflances, eve- ry thing of this kind is at lafl carried down, either, by fome degree of diflblu- tion taking place in the fubflance itfelf, or by fome partial fuppuration forming in the cefophagus, by which that part of K 2 the1^6 Of Oefophagotomy. Chap. XVIII. the extraneous body that was fixed in it, is efFecSually loofened. But wheVe the obftrudion of the oefo- phagus is fo complete as to prevent the paflage of nourifliment into the flomach, or when the breathing is much interrupt- ed, if the caufe of obflrudlion cannot be xemoved by other means, it comes to be a quellion whether any attempt ftiould be made for taking it out by an incifion. As the cefophagus lies deep, being covered with the trachea, and as different blood- veflels of magnitude lie near it, it has always been very juftly confidered as dan- gerous to make an incifion into it ^ and in general it has been laid down as an efta^ blifhed maxim never to attempt it. But although no praditioner would think it advifeable to perform this ope- ration without fome reafon of impor- tance, yet in fuch inftances as thofe to which I allude, where much danger muft enfue from any material interruption be- ing formed, either to the paffage of food into the ftomach, or of air into the lungs.Chap. XVIII. Of Oefophagotcmy. 157 it would furely be preferable to give the patient a chance, even from this doubtful remedy, than to allow him to meet a certain and miferable deatli. Notwithftanding a very general pre- judice that prevails againft this operatiofi, I think we are fufEciently warranted in recommending it in thofe caufes of ob- ftru6lions in the cefophagus that cannot be otherwife removed; and the opinion is founded on the following circumftances: Wounds in the cefophagus, whether in- flidled by accident or defign, have been fre- quently cured, different inftances of which have fallen within my own knowledge, the mofl: remarkable of which was the cafe of a man, who, in an attempt to de- ftroy himfelf, cut the trachea on the right lide completely through, and likewife pe- netrated the cefophagus ; and among o- ther inftances recorded by authors of wounds in the cefophagus being cured, one is mentioned by Bohnius; in which, from the food palling freely out at the wound, it was evident, that the cefophagus K 3 was158 of Oefophagotomy. Chap. XVIIL was injured, and yet a cure was eafily ac- compliflied. By various experiments this operation is found to be fafely pradicable on dogs and other animals, in which the ftrufture of the parts concerned is nearly the fame as that of the human body : It hasr been repeatedly done on the dead fubjedl, with- out any injury to the contiguous large blood-velTels : And, laftly, there are at leaft two inftances upon record, of its ha- ving been performed with fafety and fuc- cefs on living fubjeds I have there- fore no hefitation in faying, that cafe$ may occur in which it may be proper to cut into the oefophagus^ Befides thofe obftrudions arifing from the caufes that I have mentioned, many inftances have occurred inpradice of the cefophagus being fo completely ftopped up by conftridions and tumors, as to ftop all communication between the mouth and the ftomach. When * Vide Memoires de 1’Academic Royals de Chirui:- gie, tom. iii. p. 14. Paris,-1756.Chap. XVIII. Of Oefophagotomy. 159 When feated in the fuperior part of the oefophagus, making an opening into it may be fometimes advifeable, with a view to the conveyance of nourifliment into the ftomach: Any advantage, however, to be expected in fuch cafes from the opera- tion, will in general prove only tempo- rary, as difeafes of this nature have hi- therto refilled every attempt that has been made for removing them. By many anatomills the oefophagus is reprefented as lying evidently to the left fide : If it does llretch to the left, it is In a very inconfiderable degree; but thiscon- fideration may render it proper to prefef the left fide for this operation; the me-^ thod of performing which is this : The patient being fecured in the manner I have defired for bronchotomy, and his head drawn back and kept firm by an afliftant, an incifion Ihould be made with a fcalpel, at leafttwo inches in length, diredly through .the Ikin and cellular fubftance, keeping clofe by the fide of the trachea, and com- mencing about half an inch above the K 4 feati6o Of Oefophagotomy. Chap. XVIIL feat of the obflruding fubftance when this can be done ; and where this is imprac- ticable by the obftrudHon being within the cavity of the cheft, the incifion Ihould commence about an inch and half above the breaft-bone. The cellular fubftanc€f being freely di- vided, the fterno-thyroidaei and fterno- hyoidaei imifcles, together with a portion of the thyroid gland, will be brought into view : With a flat blunt hook, one aflifl- ant fliould pull the mufcles gently to the left fide, while another by the fame means is employed in pulling the trachea fome- what to the right, fo as to admit of the cefophagus being brought into view. If any large blood-veflel is thus unavoid- ably divided, it fliould now be fecured with a ligature^ and this being done, the operator is to proceed to open the cefophagus. When the piece of bone or other fubftance fixed in the paf- fage is difcovered by the finger, the perforation Ihould be made diredly upon it, and the cut, which ought always to be longitudinal, being made of a fufE- cientChap. XVIII. Of Oefqphagotomy. i5't dent fize for extradllng it, this Ihould be immediately done with fmall forceps. But when the caufe of obftrudtion is found to lie within the cavity of the cheft, which muft add greatly to the hazard of the operation, the oefophagus ought in this cafe to be opened immediate- ly above its entrance into the cheft; care being taken, in order to give fufii- cient room for what is to follow, that the opening in the oefophagus be extended up- wards to the full height of the external incifion. This being done, a large firm probe fhould be introduced, in order to determine the feat of the obftrudtion, when by means of long fmall forceps, the fubftance producing the mifchief fliould be laid hold of, and cautibufly extracted. The operation being in this manner fi- niflied, all our attention is to be given to the treatment of the fore, and nourifhment of the patient. When the operation is per- formed for fome difeafe in the fuperior part of the cefophagus, till this is either removed by medicines, or by an opera- tion,162 of Oefophagotomy. Chap. XVIII. tion, which In cafes of comprellion from tumors may fometimes be done, our prin- cipal objed Is the conveyance of nourifli- ment to the ftomach : In fuch Inftances, there is a neceility for preferving the open- ing In the oefophagus. But when the ope- ration has been performed for the purpofe of removing a foreign fubftance fixed in the paflage, as foon as this is accompllfhed, nothing fliould be omitted that can tend to promote an immediate reunion of the divided parts. If, in fuch circumflances, the patient is allowed either to eat or drink much, the opening in the oefophagus will be found difficult to heal, and may become fiftulous. It will therefore be more pru- dent to recommend a total abftinence from folid food for feveral days, and to con- vey nourifliment by injeding flrong broths by the anus, and allowing very fmall quan- tities of milk or foup to be fwallowed from time to time: By thefe means, by preventing the patient from moving his neck, and treating the wound in the fame manner with fimilar affedions in other parts,Chap. XVIII. Of Oefopbagotomy. 163 parts, we know from experience, that a cure may at laft be expected ^ and at any rate, if the contrary fhould happen, and if the wound fhould remain fiftulous, or even if death fhould fucceed, ftill the operator will have the confolation of ha- ving attempted every probable means for the fafety of his patient. In addition to what I have already obferved of the pro- priety of this operation in particular cafes^ I may remark, that the hazard at- tending it is not fo great as is commonly imagined. If the incifion is made in the manner I have direded, clofe by the fide of the trachea, no injury can be done to any of the larger arteries or veins : The only blood-veflels we have to be aware of, are thofe branches of the laryngeal artery that fupply the thyroid gland. With proper caution, the principal arte- ries of the gland may in general be a- voided ; but if any of them fhould be divided, they may commonly be fecured with ligatures, efpecially if the external incifion is fufficiently free: In proceeding withi54 Of Oefophagotomy. Chap. XVIII. with caution too, that branch of the eighth pair of nerves, which from its in- verted diredHon has been termed the Re- current Nerve, and which runs clofe by the fide of the oefophagus, may in geneml be avoided ^ and even in the event of fome branches of this nerve being divi- ded, the only bad confequences that pro- bably would enfue, would be fome de- gree of weaknefs in the voice ^ for the mufcles of the larynx, in which they are chiefly fpent, do not depend entirely up- on them. CHAP-Chap. XIX. Difeafes of the Nipples. 165 / CHAPTER XIX. Of Diseases of the Nipples. HE Nipples are In feme cafes fo deeply funk in the breaft, that a child in attempting to liick, finds it diffi- cult or even impoffible to lay hold of them. To remedy this inconvenience, different means are employed. If the prominent part of the breafl can be prefled fo far back as to uncover even a fmall part only of the nipple, it may commonly be drawn out by laying a flout child of fix or eight months old to fuck it: But as this cannot be always done, glafles of different kinds are employed for the fame purpofe. In Plate LIII. figures i. and 3. reprefent twol66 Di/eafes of the Nipples. Chap. XIX. two forms of glafles with which the breaft may either be fucked by the patient her- felf or by an affiftant; and fig. 2. Is a glafs cup mounted with a bag of elafllc gum. In ufing this the air mufl: be pref- fed entirely out of the bag, when the cup being placed upon the breaft fo as to in- clude the nipple, fuch a degree of fudion is produced as has a confiderable eifedl in drawing it out. The bag, however, fliould be much larger than it is common- ly made ^ for when of the ordinary fize, it does not a£l with fufficient force. But whichever of thefe means is employed, it ought to be perfifted in till the nipple is drawn fully out ^ and this fliould be al- ways done immediately before the child attempts to fuck. The nipples, like every other part of the body, are liable to ulcerations^^ but from their peculiar delicacy, any fores with which they are attacked, are always produdive of much diftrefs, while the fucking of the child tends not only to render them worfe, but of much longer duration than they otherwife would be. CracksChap. XIX. Difeafes of the Hippies. 167 Cracks or chops in the nipples have not a formidable appearance, but they are com- monly much more painful than ulcers of the greatefl: extent in other parts of the body. Various remedies are employed for thefe affeftions, but emollients are moft fre- quently ufed: I have not found, however, that they ever give permanent relief 3 for although they may procure temporary eafe, this feldom or never proves of long duration. Mild aftringents and drying applications prove more ufeful. As a wafh, lime-water, and weak faturnine fo- lutions, prove ferviceable; and Port-wine and water, or brandy fufficiently diluted, may be employed for the fame purpofe. After bathing the parts with one or other of thefe, the nipple fliould be covered with foft lint fpread with Unguentum Nutritum or Goulard’s cerate ^ but of thefe the firfl: is the befl:: I have often ufcd it with advantage, and I know of nothing that anfwers fo well in chops or cracks wherever they are fituated. I hnd too, that it is much employed by my friend168 Difeafes of the Nipples. Chap. XIX. friend Dr PJamilton,ProfefIbr of Midwife- ry in this Univerfity ^ whofe pradice be- ing very extenfive, his authority may be relied on. It is proper, however, to ob- ferve, that the nipple fliould be entirely cleared of this application always before the child is allowed to fuck; for as lead forms the bafis of it, mifchief might en- fue from much of it being carried into the ftojnach. Till the nipple is completely healed, the child fliould not be allowed to fuck oftener than is altogether neceffary; and when one of the nipples only is fore, this may be eafily managed, as the child may be kept at the found breaft, while the other is drawn from time to time with a glafs which does not injure the nip- ple. In Plate LIV. fig. 2. 3. and 4. fmall cups are delineated for proteding the nipples during the cure. When pro- perly fitted to the parts, they not only proted them from the fridion of the cloaths, but allow the milk to run off as quickly as it falls from the breafl. C H A P-,Chap. XX. Of the Amputation^ 8cc. 169 CHAPTER XX. Of the Amputation of Cancerous Mamma. Cancer has been known to attack almoft every part of the body ^ but we meet with it more frequently in the breafts of women than in almoft any other part. In Chapter II. Sedlion VIII. I entered into a full confideration of the fubjedl of cancer: I have now, therefore, to-refer to that part of the work for the defcrip- tion and diagnolis, as well as for the me- dical treatment of the difeafe ^ and in this chapter, I (hall chiefly adhere to the re- moval of cancerous tumors of the mam- mae by amputation. VoL. V. E A170 of the Amputation Chap. XX. A real cancer is perhaps the mofl: for- midable difeafe to which the human bo- dy is liable : Wherever it is feated, its confequences are to be dreaded ; but more efpecially when fixed on one or both of the mammae. Various caufes have been afligned for cancer proving more malig- nant in this fituation than in others : But the obvious reafon of it is, that the breafl, being entirely glandular, is more liable* to cancers of an extenfive fize than other parts ; by which means, the blood is more liable to be infedted by abforption, as a greater number of abforbents neceifarily ferve to convey matter from the furface of a large fore, than from one of a fmalU er extent. In Chapter II. Sedtion VIII. I endea- voured to fliew, that cancer, on its firft appearance, is perhaps, in every inftance, a local affedtlon^ that the cancerous dia- thefis is produced, not by any original affedion in the cpnilitution, but by ab- forption from a local ulcer; and hence I obferved, that cancerous fores fliould be removeddhap. XX. of Cancerous Mamma. 171 removed by Immediate amputation, where- ever this can be done. This, I thint, fliould be an eftablllh- ed maxim in the treatment of cancer wherever the difeafe is fituated ; but from its being, a^ I have obferved above, more apt to infetS the general fyftem, when feated on the mammse than on other parts of the body, this is an additional reafon for early .amputation in cancer of the hreaft. As every fchirrous gland in this part is apt to degenerate into cancer, and as in- durations of the mammae have hitherto refifted the effects of every other remedy, early amputation fhould in every inftance be advifed^ This, I know, is a point with refped to which praditioners are not univerfally agreed, as it is alleged by feme, that as fchirrous glands in the mam- mae have been known to remain in an in- dolent, inoffenfive ftate for a great length of time; their removal ought never to be attempted till they have adually gone in- to a ftate of ulceration. L 2 ButJJ2 Of the Amputation Chap, XX, But this opinion, which is evidently founded in timidity, has been the caufe of much unnecefl^ry diftrefs to a great pro- portion of all by whom it has been fol- lowed \ while it has ferved to bring the o- perationof amputating cancerous breafts, into a degree of general difcredit, which it does not merit. There is no fa6l of which I am more convinced, than that many more would recover by means of the operation, were it employed in a more early period of the difeafe, particularly while the glands are ftill in a fchirrous ftate, and before any matter is formed in them; and as inftances of their remaining long in an indolent ftate are exceedingly rare, no dependence ftiould ever be placed on their doing fo.—It is not a ftngle in» ftance or two, in matters of fuch impor- tance, on which an opinion ought to be formed: It is the refult of general obfer- vat ion that ought to direcft us; and every nnbiafled pradlitioner muft (:onfefs, that what I have here aflerted refpecfting this matter is, at leaft in general, well-founded. TheChap. XX. of Cancerous Mamma. 173 The propriety of early amputation of fchirrous breafts being admitted, ^nd the pradlice eftabliflied, it may poffibly hap- pen in a few inftances, that fchirrous tu- mors of this part may be removed, which might have remained in an indolent ftate for fome time longer. But as this will not frequently happen; as we have no means by which we can judge with cer» tainty, between fuch cafes as might re- main for fome time in this indolent ftate, tod thofe the progrefs of which would prove more rapid; and efpecially, as the advantages derived from early amputation are unqueftionably g;*eat; no hefitation fhould occur in putting it univerfally in practice. When practitioners, therefore, have an opportunity of amputating cancerous or fchirrous breafts early, they ought always to embrace it. It often happens, however,; from an improper delicacy in patients, as well as from other caufes, that praCtition- 'ers are not confulted till the difeafe is far advanced. But although the advantages to L 3 be17+ Of the Amputation Chap. XXv be derived from the operation will in ge- neral be in proportion to the previous du- ration of the difeafe; yet on all occafions, even in very advanced ftages of cancer. It is right to advife it, provided the parts affedled canbecompletely removed. When, indeed, this cannot be elFecSed, from the cancerous parts lying too deep, or from^ their being immediately connected with organs eflentially neceffary to life, by which amputation' of the one cannot be performed without much injury bein§ done to the other; infuch circumftances, as the operation would not be of any real utility, it Ihould not be advifed : For, as all the difeafed parts could: not with pro- priety be removed, and as the cancerous- virus is of a very aflimilating nature, it would anfwer no beneficial purpofe to.am- putate only a portion. But in every in- llance where the parts affedled can be fafely feparated from the found, as no- thing but their removal can afford any chance of fafety, I muff; again fay, that we Ihould not hefitate to advife the ope- ration..chap. XX. of Cancerous Mammae. 175 ration. I fliall now proceed to defcribe the method of performing it. In every chirurgical operation it Ihould be an eftablifhed maxim to fave as much found &in as poffible. Such portions of the common teguments as are difeafed, or that adhere firmly to the parts below, ought certainly to be taken away^ but it can never be proper to remove more than this: For it is now univerfally known, that the cutis vera is never regenerated; and when deftroyed, that the parts um derneath are afterwards covered with thin fcarf-fkin only. This, however, is not the only objedion to an extenfive re- moval of Ikin: In every operation* where much of it is deftroyed, the wound that remains'is necelTarily much more exten- five, and the cure is therefore much more tedious than when little, or perhaps no fkin has been taken away., Indeed, this is ft) much the cafe, that in operations where no Ikin has been removed, cures will be fometimes accompliflied in a few days, which, by the removal of much L 4 Ikin176 of the Amputation Chap. XX. fkin in the ufual way of performing the fame operation, woulcj be protraded to many weeks or months. This pradice of removing much fkin in the amputation of tumors, feems to have originated from an idea that has long and very univerfally prevailed, of the fkin being by much diftention apt to lofe its tone fo entirely as not to be able to recover it again; and therefore that in every fuch inflance, a confiderable part of it fhould be taken away. This, how- ever, is by no means the cafe ; and who- ever will adopt a contrary pradice, will find, that it rarely or never happens, that a tumor becomes fo extenfive as to deflroy the elaflicity of the fkin that furrounds it.—Inflammatory tumors indeed proceed frequently with fuch rapidity to a great bulk, as to diflend the fkin more quickly than it can properly bear, and atlafl burfl it entirely when fuppuration has taken place : But in almoft every other variety of tumor, the progrefs of the fwelling is fo flow and gradual, that the natural con- tradileChap. XX. of Cancerous Mammce. 177 tradile power of the ikin is feldom or ne- ver fo far deftroyed by it, as to prevent it from recovering its tone on the caufe producing the diftemion being removed: And in cafes of fchirrous breafts, this contractile power of the fldn is common- ly fo remarkable, that even when the breaft is much enlarged, and when all the glandular part of it is removed, the fkin, if it has been preferved, almoft conftant- ly contracts to the fize of the remaining fore ^ fo that in all fuch cafes, none of the Ikin fhould be removed that is not either actually difeafed, or adhering fo firmly to the parts below, that it cannot be feparated from them* In proceeding to the operation, the pa- tient mufl be either firmly feated in an arm-chair, her head being fupported with a pillow by an affiftant behind, whilft her arms are properly fecured by an affiftant on each fide ^ or flie may be placed upon a table, which anfwers better than any other pofition: In this manner flie is more eafily fecured 3 faintings are lefs apt to occur;178 Of the Amputation Chap. XX. occur; and the furgeon proceeds with ^ more eafe through every part of the ope- ration, than when Ihe is feated in a chair. But in whatever pofition the patient may be placed, the furgeon fhould for certain be feated: Surgeons, indeed, perform this operation moft frequently while ftanding before the patient; but no operator will ever attempt it in this manner, who has once experienced the advantages that re- fult from doing it in the manner I have advifed. In the firfl: place, I fliall fuppofe the operation to be performed for a fchirrous affedion of the mamma, while the Ikin is ftill perfedly found, and without any firm adhefion to the parts beneath. In thefe circumftances, an incifion fliould be made with a fcalpel through the fkin and cellular fubftance, from one extremity of the tumor to the other; taking care to dired the fcalpel fo that it may avoid the nipple, by carrying it an inch or fo to one fide of it. When the difeafe has ex- tended, as it fometimes does, beyond the mammaChap. XX. of Cancerous Mamma. 179 mamma towards the fternum, as this com- monly throws the longeft diameter of the tumor acrofs the body, this external inci- fion fliould run in a diredlon correfpond- ing to the length of the tumor, by ma~ king it to commence at one fide of the mamma, and terminate at the other. But when the mamma alone is difeafed, the external incifion fhould run in a perpen- dicular direction, commencing at the up- per part of the tumor, and finifliing at the moft depending point of it. By this means any matter that may form during the cure is freely difebarged > which does not happen when the incifion runs in a tranfverfe diredlion, unlefs the inferior portion of the teguments is afterwards di- vided from above downwards ^ which, in fuch cafes, Ihould always be done: For although, in fome inftances, a cure is ea- fily obtained, even v/hen this precaution is not kept in view, yet in general fome Jnconvenience would enfue from the ne- 'gledi of it. ‘ Thel8o Of the Amputation Chap, XX. The fkin and cellular fubftance being thus freely divided, they Ihould now be feparated from the difeafed parts below by a flow and fteady diffedion; and this being accompliflied, the teguments fliould be kept afunder by afliftants, till ail the glandular part of tlj^ breaft is dlffeded from the pecloral mufcle and other parts with which they are conneded. With a view to preferve the pedoral mufcle as much as poflible from being cut by the fcalpel, the arm of the aifeded fide fliould be kept extended fomewhat above a ho- rizontal diredlon; by which means all the fibres of this mufcle are preferved in a ftate of e*xtenfion, and are thus lefs lia- ble to be Injured during the operation than when they are kept relaxed. It often happens, indeed, that the dif- eafed parts adhere to the pedoral mufcle; and, in fome inftances, even to the peri- ofteum of the ribs. In fuch cafes, as all the difeafed parts mufl; be removed, no hefitation fliould be made in ufing every necelTary freedom with the pedoral muf- 3 ^ cle,Chap. XX. of Cancerous Manimce. i8i clc, as well as with every other part to which the mamma adheres; but when- ever the removal of the difeafe can be ac- compliflied, without injuring thefe parts, it ought undoubtedly to be done. On the mamma being removed, the ope- rator Ihould examine with much accura- cy, not only the furface of the fore, but the parts beneath the edges of the divi- ded Ikin \ and if any indurated glands are difcovered, they Ihould all be removed. In this part of the operation, much care ^nd attention is requifite; for unlefs all the difeafed glands are removed, no ad- vantage whatever will be derived from it. I have defired that the whole glandular part of the mamma may be removed. Even where a finall portion of it only is difea- fed, the whole ihould be amputated : For ^o good purpofe can be anfwered by a ^ portion of it being left ^ and in many inftances mifehief enfues from the dif- eafe again making its appearance in fome part of the remaining glands. When in- deed182 of the Amputation Chap. XX^ deed it Is found that a fingle loofe gland only is affexSled, this may be taken put without injuring the reft of the breaft; but whenever the difeafe is extenftve, the whole mamma fliould be removed. The next ftep in the operation is to fe« cure the divided arteries, and it fhould always be done with the tenaculum. As the arteries of the mamma are frequent- ly fmall and numerous, much attention is neceflary to difcover them. All the coa- gulated blood fliould be effedlually clear- ed away with a fponge and warm water; and if the patient is faint, a glafs of wine or fome other cordial Ihould be exhibit- ed; by which means fmall branches of arteries are often difcovered which other- wife would efcape notice, and which if negleded might induce much hazard and diftrefs. The blood-veiTels being thus fecured, and the furface of the fore cleared of blood, the divided teguments fliould'be brought together; and. In order to fecure them exadly in their fituation, ligatures IhouldChap. XX. of Cancerous Mamma. 183 fliould be introduced at thofe points where the operator fees that they will anfwer the purpofe moft efFecSually. I have fome- times employed flips of adheflve plaller for this purpofe ^ but nothing retains the parts fo properly in their fituation as li- gatures ^ and the pain which they excite is too trifling to be mentioned. In fecuring the teguments in this man- ner, care mufl be taken to leave all the ligatures of the arteries hanging an Inch or two out from the wound, fo that they may be withdrawn at the end of three or four days; which in general may be ea- fily and fafely done when they have been applied with the tenaculum. In order to promote the adhefion of the teguments to the parts beneath, mo- derate and equal preffiire fliould be ap- plied over the whole by means of the napkin and fcapulary bandage^ but be- fore ^plying it, the parts fliould be all covered with a piece of foft lint fpread with any emollient ointment, and over this184 of the Amputation Chap. XX. this there fhould be a thick comprefs ei- ther of lint, tow, or foft old linen. In this manner, when no portion of the teguments has been removed, as the whole fore will be covered with Ikin, a cure will be obtained by a procefs which furgeons in general have termed the. firfl; inten- tion j” that is, without the formation of matter. But it does hot often happen that the operation is advifed whilft this very fa- vourable mode of pradilingitis admiilible. in general, before a practitioner recom- mends amputation of a bread, and dill more frequently before a patient confents to it, a confiderable portion of the external teguments are fo much difeafed, as to ren- der it neceffary to remove them along with the glandular part of the mamma ^ or, if the Ikin is not actually difeafed, it com- monly adheres fo much to the mod pro- minent part of the bread, that it cannot be feparated from it. In either of thefe circumdances, fome portion of the Ikin mud be removed along with the mamma ^ . andChap. XX. of Cancerous Mamma* 185 and the eafieft method of doing it Is this : A longitudinal incifion fliould be made, in the manner I have advifed, through fuch parts of the teguments as are perfedlly found, whilft that portion of the fkin that is difeafed, or which adheres firmly to the glandular part of the breaft, fliould be feparated from the found Ikin, by a cir- cular or oblong incifion, with which the longitudinal cut ought to communicate ; and this being done, the operation is to be finiflied in the manner 1 have pointed out, by difledting off every. part that is indurated, along with that portion of the ikin that has been furrounded, by an in- cifion fuch as I have mentioned. In the after ft ate of the fore, a mate- rial difference takes place between the o- peratioii that I have now defcribed, and that in which there is no neceflity for removing any portion of Ikin. Where none of the fkin is removed, the divided teguments on being drawn together co- ver the fore completely j an adhefion com- monly takes place over the whole ^ and Vor. V. M thei86 Of the Amputation Chap. XX. the cicatrix that enfues is inconfiderable : But when any portion of fkin is removed, a fore is always left, that not only ren- ders the cure tedious in proportion to the quantity of Ikin taken away, but the ci- catrix is neceflarily of the fame fize 3 by which a tendernefs and irritability is left in the fite of the difeafe, which I am con- vinced has often fome influence in giving rife to a return of it. The fore that remains after the opera- tion, ought to be treated with the mildefl drefllngs. When any hemorrhagy takes place from the furface of the fore, and is not removed by the ligatures applied upon the larger arteries, dry lint Ihould be applied for the firfl: drefling ; but for all the after-dreflings, lint covered with any emollient ointment Ihould be prefer- red. Mild emollients never give pain, which dry lint is very apt to excite 3 and they certainly admit of a more quick for- mation of granulations than any dreflings that give irritation. I have hitherto been fuppofing that the difeafe occupies the mamma only y but it pfteqChap, XX. of Cancerous Mamma. 187 often happens, that the lymphatics lead- ing from the breaft to the armpit are much indurated, and that the glands In the armpit itfelf are both indurated and enlarged. In fome inftances, too, a num- ber of difeafed glands are found to i;un from the breaft to the clavicle, and to ipread in confiderable clufters along the under edge of that bone. In fuch circumftances, the amputation t>f the mamma itfelf muft be managed in the manner I have already advifed ; but befides this, an incifion ftiould be made through the Ikin and cellular fubftance from the farther extremity of every clufter of hardened glands, and ftiould be made to terminate in the principal fore producd by the removal of the mamma. Thus, when the glands in the armpit are enlarged, although they might fre- quently be pulled out either feparately or conneded together, by a hook infinu- ated below the found Ikin at the fore in the breaft ^ yet it anfwers the pur- pofe better, to lay the glands firft bare M ,2 ' byi88 Of the Amputation Chap. XX. by an Incifion in the maimer I have ad- tifed, and then to diffed them cautioufly out with the fcalpel. In the courfe of the difledion, a good deal of affiftance may be obtained from palling a ftrong ligature through the largeft gland; by which the whole duller with which it is conneded may be elevated from the parts below, fo as to admit of their being moreealily cut out with the fcalpel : And it often hap- pens, that thefo' indurated glands, run fo near to the axillary artery, as to render it highly proper to ufe every probable means for rendering the dilTedion fafe and eafy. In like manner, when a duller of dif- eafed glands is found to extend towards the clavicle, or in any other diredlon, af- ter the teguments have been freely divi- ded, the glands themfelves Ihould be to- tally removed ^ and both here and in limi- lar affedions in the armpit, the divided teguments lliould be brought together, and retained in their lituation, either by comprelfion alone, or, when this is not fufficient for the purpofe, by the introduc- tiop of one or more futures. Thechap. XX. of Cancerous Mamnue. 189 The point that I more efpecially wifli to inculcate refpedling this operation is, the propriety of faving as much Ikin as poflible. The neceffity of this had rare- ly, if ever, occurred' to our forefathers : And accordingly the common pradlice has been, to remove all the fkin correfpond- ing to the morbid parts underneath: By which much unneceffary pain is produ- ced 5 a very extenfive and very ugly fore is left 3- and the cure is always tedious. In- ftead of which, by the means I have re-^ commended, although it will not often happen that the fore can be entirely co^ vered with Ikin 3 yet, in all cafes, a con- fiderable part of it may for certain re- ceive this very important advantage, by which the extent of the fore will be much diminiflied ^ a cure will be proportionally fooner effeded ; and by th cicatrix be- ing lefs extenfive, the rilk of the patient in future will alfo be lefs* The propriety of faving as much fldn as poflible, not only in this operation, but in every other where an ex.tenfive fore is M 3 comimonly190 Of the Amputation, &c. ^Chap. XX. commonly left, particularly in amputa- ting the extremities, has always appeared to me to be a matter of fuch importance^ that, from the time of my entering on the operative part of bufinefs, I have taken all opportunities of putting it in pradtice. Ever fince the year 1772,1 have managed cancerous breafts in the manner I have now mentioned, that is, by endeavouring to fave as much Ikin as poffible^ and the advantages derived from it have been very confiderable. Till of late, the only means put in prac- tice for fecuring the Ikin in its fituation^ fo to effect an adhelion between it and the parts underneath, was compreflion by the napkin and fcapulary bandage, except- ing in a few cafes in which adhefive pla- fters were employed. But as ligatures give very little pain, and as they retain the parts more certainly in their fituation, I now employ two, three, or more, accord- ing to the extent of the divided parts and they always anfwer the purpofe. CHAP-Se6l. I- Of the Paracentefis^ &e. tpi CHAPTER XXL Of the Paracentesis of the Thorax* SECTION L General Remarks on this Opetatiom HE operation tjf the Paratentelis^ or tapping the thorax, is alwaj^s indi- cated where the adion of the heart or lungs is much impeded by fluMs colled- ed in the cavity of the cheft. Hitherto this operation has been fuppo- fed to be applicable to the evacuatidti of water or of pus only ^ and chiefly of the M4 lattftig2 Of the Paracentejis Chap. XX!®- latter in the difeafe termed Empyema, But I am clearly of opinion, that it is equaU ly proper for the difcharge of any other fluid, as for colledions of water or puru- lent matter*—The fymptoms induced by colledlions of different fluids, may vary in fome points according to the nature of the difeafe, or of the accident giving rife to their formation. But it is their effed on the motion of the heart and lungs, to which praditioners ought chiefly to attend ^ and this will always depend more on the quantity than on the kind of fluid that is colleded.. The different kinds of fluids met with in the thorax, and requiring to be drawn off by this operation, are ferum, blood, pus, and air.—Of thefe I fhall treat in feparate fedions. SEC-m Se(S. ir. &f the TthoraXi SECTION IE Of Serum colleBed in the Sthorax, Ollections of ferum In the cheft are frequently combined with dropfy in other parts ; But we often meet with it as a local affedlion ; and it is in thefe chiefly, that any advantage is to be ex- pedled from a chirurgical operation. Independent of general elFufions into the two large cavities of the thorax,, drop- fical collections are alfo met with in the pericardium, and they are in fome inftan- ces confined to the mediaftinum Immedi- ately below the fternum. Various and diftrefsful fymptoms ac- company thefe collections, but it requires much attention to afcertain their exift- ence, and efpecially their particular fitu- ation, with fuch precifion as can warrant an operation of fuch importance as the paracentefis of the cheft. A194 Of the Paracentefts Chap. A patient who complains of a fenfe of weight or oppreflion in the thorax; of difficult refpiration; of a more uneafy fen- fation in one fide of the cheft than in the other; of being liable to fudden fits of ftarting during fleep, from a fear of im- mediate fuffocation; and if, along with thefe, he is teafed with a frequent cough; if the pulfe is fmall and irregular ; and if a dry fkin, a fcarcity of urine, and other fymptoms of dropfy take place, little doubt can remain of water being colled:- ed in fome part of the cheft. A fenfe of undulation, as of water pafling from one part of the breaft to another, is fometimes obferved by the patient on riling fudden- ly from a horizontal pofture; and this, I may remark, ferves not only to allift in afcertaining the real nature of the difeafe, but to determine in what particular part of the cheft the water is colleded. Much attention, therefore, fhould be given to this circumftance ; for by means of it we may commonly determine, with fome pre- cifion,of the Thorax. 195 Sea. II. cifion, where a perforation ought to be made. That every poflible advantage may be derived from this circumftance, the pa- tient fhould have his cheft uncovered while under examination. When the quantity of colleaed ferum is confider- able, it may commonly be difcovered by placing one hand upon the anterior part of the ribs near to the fternum, and ftri- king with fome force near to the back- bone with the other; and if an undula- I tion is perceived in one fide of the cheft and not in the other, the real feat of the difeafe is thereby obvious. But when the quantity of fluid is not great, this trial is not to be trufted. In this cafe, a perfon ftanding behind the patient upon a chair, Ihould be diredled to take a firm hold of the upper part of his body, and to fwing it repeatedly by fuddeii jerks from one fide to another > and if water is contain- ed in tte cheft, it will thus be very cer- tainly found to undulate^ and an evident noife will arife from^ it. 1 hare met with differentig6 Of the Paracentefis Chap. XXI 3 commonly different inftances of this, in which the exiflence of the difeafe was thus pre- cifely determined. In long-continued colledtions of fe- rum, affiftance in the diagnofis is fome- times obtained, from the part in which the water is feated being more prominent than the reft of the cheft. It has even been alleged, that all the ribs of one fide of the thorax have, in fome inftances, been found obvioufly elevated, by the water being in fuch quantities as to prevent them from contracting in the act of ex- piration. This can only happen in the very late ftages of the difeafe; but where- ever it takes place, it Ihews with certain- ty where the water is to be looked for, When the difeafe is in the pericardium, nearly the fame fymptoms take place with thofe produced by dropfy in other parts of the cheft. Indeed the moft accurate obfervation will fometimes fail in judg- ing of this ; but in the hydrops peri- cardii, it is obferved, that the patient complains chiefly of the middle and left fide of the thorax : And Senac, in his197 Se<S. II. of the T^horax. excellent Treatife on the Structure of the Heart, mentions as a charaderiftlc mark of this difeafe, a firm undulatory motion being perceived between the third, fourth, and fifth ribs on every pulfation of the heart. As it is not in any refped: neceflary for our fubjedl to enter minutely into the in- veftigation of the caufes of thefe collec- tions, all that I lhall fay refpeding it is, that whatever tends to produce dropfy in other parts of the body, will have a fimi- lar effedt in forming it here. The exiftence of water in the thorax be- ing afcertained, and the part in which it is colledled being difcovered, if the medicines employed in the cure fliall fail, and if it is evident that the patient muff: die if the operation is delayed, it ought certainly to be advifed without farther delay : Perforating the thorax is no doubt a very important operation, and it ought not to be advifed but in real danger. I do not however hefitate to fay, that it ihould be performed in every inftance where the attending fymptoms are hazar- dous.198 of the Paracentefis Chap. XXI. dous, and cannot be removed by other means. The method of doing it is this : The patient Ihould be laid in a horizon- tal pofture, with the lide in which the per- foration is to be‘made laid over the bed j When in this lituation, the fkin over the whole fide on which the opening is to be made fliould be pulled upwards by an aflifl:- ant, by whom it fliould be preferved in this lituation during the operation; and the furgeon fliould now, with a fcalpel, make an incifion two inches in length between the fixth and feventh ribs, in the very di- rection of thefe bones, and at an equal diftance betweeix the fternum and back- bone ; taking care to avoid the under bor- der of the fiiperior rib on account of the blood-veflels running in its groove. But although it is neceflary, in order to ob- tain fufficient room for the fcalpel^ to have the opening in the Ikin and cellular fubftance of this length, there is no rea- fon for continuing it of the fame extent to the bottom; fo that, as the knife pafles through the intercoftal mufcles, the inci- fionSed. II. of the thorax. 199 lion may in a gradual manner be Ihorten- cd to the length of an inch. On the pleu- ra being laid bare, it is to be llowly and cautioufly divided, in order to avoid all rifkof wounding the lungs, left they Ihould at this place happen to adhere. If they do not adhere, the water will rufh out with much force as foon as an opening is made in the pleura i, but if the pleura ad- heres to the lungs at this place, the inci- lion muft either be carried forward to an inch or two nearer the fternum, or another opening will be required, either an inch or two higher or lower in the thorax. As foon as water is found to flow, the fil- vet canula, Plate LVIII. fig. 6. Ihould be introduced at the opening} by which means the difcharge will not only be more eafily completed, but will likewife be more readily flopped, if this fliould be found necelTary, by the patient becoming faint. By doing it in this manner, air is prevented from finding accefs to the ca- vity of the cheft ; a circumftance of fome importance in this operation. When2GO Of the ^araceniefis Chap. XXI. When the water colIeSed is not in great quantity, it may commonly be all drawn olF at once ^ but as we are, from the ftrudure of the thorax, deprived, du- ring this operation, of the advantage of compreffion, except of that which may be communicated through the abdomen, which muft here be very limited, when much water is collected, partial evacua- tions ought to be made, at longer or Ihorter intervals aecording to cireum- ftances. For this purpofe, and with a view to give a temporary fufpenfion to the difcharge, the canula fliould be fecu- red by a ribbon connedled with it tied round the body of the patient, and flop- ped from time to time with a piece of cork adapted to its opening. A pledgit of emollient ointment fliould be laid over the wound y and the whole being fecured with the napkin and fcapulary bandage, the patient Ihould in this ftate be laid to reft. After a fuitable delay of a day or two, an additional quantity of water may drawn off; And by thus taking it awaySedl. II. of the T^horax. 201 in a gradual manner, all rifk may be avoid- ed of the patient being injured by too fudden an evacuation. In this manner any quantity of water contained in the cheft may be drawn off with fafety \ and the patient being now relieved from the great diftrefs under which he laboured, the canula may be withdrawn, proper means being at the fame time employed for preventing a re- lapfe of the difeafe. I have hitherto fuppofed, that the fe- i rum is colledled in only one of the cavi- ties of the cheft 3 but when botb fides are alFeded, it cannot be all drawn off by one operation. In this cafe, therefore, after being evacuated from one fide, the ope- ration fliould be repeated on the other. But fome ri/k might occur from the ope- ration being performed in both fides at nearly the fame time, by the external air getting accefs at once to both cavities of the chefl: For although I have advifed the opening in the pleura to be fmall, and a canula to be immediately palled in- VoL. V. Nici Of the Paracentefts Chap. XXI. to It, yet ftill it is Impollible, even with the utmofl; caution, to prevent the air from finding accefs, either by the wound or canula, to the furface of the lungs y and if both cavities of the chefl; Ihould at the fame time be filled with air, nearly the fame opprefled ftate of refpiration would take place as Avas produced by the ferum newly difcharged. Before the ope- ration, therefore, is repeated on the op- pofite fide, feme means fliould be advifed for expelling the-air received into the ca- vity of the chefl: by the firft perforation. This may be done in different ways; the mofl: eafy and convenient of which is this: Immediately after the canula is withdrawn, let the patient endeavour, as far as he dare fafely venture, to fill the lungs with air. This will expel a confi- derable part of what was colledled be- tween the pleura and lungs, by the per- foration; and if the fkin, which was re- tracted before the operation, be Inftantly drawn over the fore, and preifed down by an afliftant during infpiration, all ac- cefsSed. II. of the Thorax. 203 cefs will thus be prevented to the exter- nal air^ and by this being frequently re- peated, almofl all the air colledled be- tween the pleura and lungs will be expel- led : After which the Ikin muft be drawn over the wound 3 and by means of a com- prefs and bandage properly applied, the parts may be made to adhere without further trouble. Air may alfo be drawn off from the thorax in the following manner: Let an exhaufting fyringe be fitted with fiich a mouth of ivory or metal as will allow it I to be clofely applied over the opening in the pleura. When thus applied, every ftroke of the piflon will extrad: a confi- derable quantity of air; and as foon as the whole is fuppofed to be nearly ex- haufted, the inftrument may be remo- ved, and the wound treated as I have al- ready advifed, by drawing the fkin over it, and endeavouring to heal it by the firft intention. Or, inftead of an exhaufting fyringe, one of the elaflic vegetable bottles, fit- N 2 ted204 Of she Fiiracentejis Chap. XXI«^ ted with the fame kind of mouth, may be employed. By expelling all the air out of the bottle, and applying the mouth of it over the wound in the pleura, a quantity of air nearly equal to the bulk of the inftrument will be extracted, and it may again be applied as often as is ne- ceflary; care being taken at each remo- val of the inftrument to exclude all ac- cefs to the air, by drawing the retraced fkin over the wound. Air colleded in either of the cavities of the cheft, may not only prove hurtful by impeding the motion of the lungs, but it muft likewife do harm by that tendency to inflame, that is always communicated to parts naturally fecluded from the air, on their being by accident laid open fo as to admit of its being freely applied to them. In all fuch cafes, therefore, this is a circumftance that merits particular attention. When one fide only of the thorax is laid open, either in colledlons of water or matter, the oppreffion pro- duced upon the lungs by the admiflion ofSea. II. 205 cff the T!horax. air, is not commonly of much import- ance, as for the moft part it is expelled by expiration alone. This I know from experience is the cafe ; but inflammation, as I have already obferved, being fome- times induced by air finding accefs to thefe cavities, it ought at all times to be rigidly guarded againfl;; and, as much diflrefs has been induced from both ca- vities of the cheft being laid open at once, it ought never to be attempted. Our views in what I have ventured to I advife in the different ileps of the opera- tion, will appear, I hope, fufficiently ob- vious ; but as fome furgeons prefer a dif- ferent part of the cheft, as well as a dif- ferent inflrument, for performing the operation, I think it necefiary to confi- der thefe points fomewhat more minute- ly- It has been faid, that unlefs the open- ing is lower in the cheft, the water will not be completely difcharged, as all that part of the cavity that lies below the wound will ftill continue to be filled with N 3 it.2c5 of the Paracentefis Chap. XXI, (j it. But, if the patient is laid in a hori- zontal pofture, with his body inclined to the fide in which the perforation is made, the fpot that I have advifed will be found to be more depending than any other; ^nd in this fituation we have this mate- rial advantage, that the lungs do not fo readily adhere to the pleura, as they do farther down, where they come more clofely into contad: with the diaphragm; and here too, the perforation is made with more eafe than it can poflibly be nearer the fpine, where the thick mufcles of thefe parts cannot be avoided. With refped to the inftrument with which the operation is performed, the fcalpel, I think, is the beft. A trocar has been recommended by many : But however well adapted a trocar is for piercing the abdomen or fcrotum, in which none of the contained parts can be hurt if the operation is rightly per- formed, yet in the thorax much rilk mufl: attenr^, the life of it from the adhefions fhat often occur between the lungs and pleura,Sed. n. of the thorax. 207 pleura, and from our not being previouf- ly able to determine whether they ad- here or not at the very point in which the perforation is made.—-In the event of no adhelion being, met with, the trocar would no doubt accomplifh the Intention of the operation, and with perfedt fafety if cautioufly introduced. But if it ftiould unfortunately be inferted where adhe- fions between the lungs and pleura take place, the lungs would not only be inju- red, but the operation would not anfwer the purpofe 3 for the inftrument entering the fubftance of the lungs, it would not come into contadl with the water collecS^ ed between the lungs and the pleu- ra lining the ribs, and confequently no difcharge would enfue. With the fcalpel, this inconvenience cannot oc- cur. On the pleura being laid bare, a fmall hole fhould be fcratched in it with the point of the inftrument y and as foon as this membrane appears to be penetra- ted, if no ferum is difcharged, there will be much caufe to imagine that the lungs N 4 adhere2o8 of the Paracentefis Chap. XXL adhere at this place; and the fiirgeon will now either defift entirely, and make an attempt at another place; or, if the adhefion between the lungs and pleura is ll%ht, which may be known by the cau- tious introduction of a blunt-edged probe, as much of them may poffibly be fepara- ted as to admit the canula to pafs into the collection of ferum : At leaft this trial may at all times be propofed. If the lungs are eafily feparated, and if the adhelion is not extenfive, the operation will thus be completed ^ while if the contrary fliall ever be the cafe, the operator will at leaft have the fatisfaction to think that he has done no mifchief, and which he might not in fuch circumftances have been able to avoid, if a trocar had been ufed. After duly attending, therefore, to every circumftance, I am clearly of opinion, that the fcalpel ihonld in this operation be preferred to the trocar. When the difeafe is feated in the peri- cardium, it is in general fo much diftend- ed, that it is eafily diftinguilhed. Uponma- kingSed. II. of the iTjorax. 209 king an opening into the left fide, be- tween any two of the ribs from the third or fourth to the feventh or eighth, and within the diflance of five or fix inches of the fternum, we can never fail in this diftended ftate to meet with It: And when brought fully in view, by the pleura being freely divided for the fpace of an inch or two, the bell: method of finilhing the operation, is to pulh a fmall trocar into the pericardium. If the quantity colleded is fmall, it may all be drawn off at once; but when confiderable, the difcharge Ihould be frequently ftopt for a few minutes together, with a view to prevent thofe Inconveniencies that I have fo frequently had occafion to mention as the effects of a hidden difcharge being gi- ven to large colledions wherever they are feated^ and if this precaution is ne- ceffary in other parts, it mull probably be much more fo in a fituation fo very contiguous to the heart. When, again, ferum Is colledled in a cyft between the lamellae of the rnedia- ftinum.Of the Paracentefs Chap. XXI. 210 ftinum, as this is fituated immediately below the fternum, any pain or oppref- fion that it excites, will be more confined to the centre of the bread:, than when the collection is feated in either of the cavi- ties of the cheft; and for the fame rea- fon, any opening intended to difcharge it muft be made directly through the fter- num itfelf, by a piece of that bone being taken out with the head of a trepan, fo as to admit of the parts affected being brought into view. The method of ap- plying the trepan I need not enter upon at prefect, as the operation has been al- ready defcribed in a preceding Chapter. All that appears to be farther neceffary upon the fubject is, that as foon as the cyft containing the fluid is laid bare, a perfo- ration fhould be made into it with a tro- car ; care being taken to manage the dif- charge in the fame cautious manner I _ have already advifed, and not to admit the parts newly laid open to be more ex- pofed to the air than is neceflary. SEC.2II of the "thorax. Sea, III. SECTION III. Of Blood colleBed in the thorax. WHEN blood is colkaed In confi- derable quantities in any part of the cheft, the breathing becomes oppref- fed, and the motion of the heart and ar- teries feeble and irregular. Thefe, in- deed, are fymptoms that occur in every colleaion feated in the thorax; but they are obferved to arrive at a greater and more diftrefsful height from blood, than from colleaions of other fluids. In other refpeas,' colleaions of blood and ferum give rife to the fame fymptoms, fo that they need x^ot again be enumerated. Blood may be eifufed in the cavity of the thorax by different caufes, and of thefe the following are the mofl: fre- quent. I. Wounds that penetrate any of the blood-veflels in the thorax. 2. The212 Of the Paracentejis Chap, XXI. 2. The fpiculae of a fradured rib, and fplinters of the fternum and vertebrae, fometimes injure the blood-veflels in the thorax. 3. Thefe vellels are fometimes eroded by the matter of an ulcer or of an ab- fcefs, and, 4. They may be ruptured by any vio- lent exertion, particularly in the adion of coughing. As it commonly happens, where blood is coileded in the cheft, that the vefTels from whence it is difcharged are fcated in the fubftance of the lungs, part of the blood is ufually brought up by the mouth in a fit of coughing; and when the quan- tity difcharged in this manner is confi- derable, it gives relief to the oppref- fion both of the lungs and heart.—But whenever the adion of either of thefe or- gans becomes much impeded by a great accumulation of blood, fome attempt fhould be made to draw it off by a per- foration: And as blood, when extrava- fated, coagulates quickly, and as in this fiateSe£t. III. of the thorax, 2ij ftate it could not be eafily difcharged, an> opening fhould be made for this purpofe as foon as there is caufe to imagine from the fymptoms that it is beginning to flag- nate. When the blood is found to be fo firm- ly coagulated as not to pafs oiF by a per- foration, it has been propofed to- diffolve or to dilute it by injedling warm water or emollient infufions. This, however, is a pradUce that ought feldom to be advifed ; for injedions, even of the mild- eft nature, muft in this fituation be al- ways attended with rilk ; but when it fo happens, that much blood is colleded In a coagulated ftate, and that it cannot be drawn off even by enlarging the opening in the pleura as far as can with proprie- ty be done; and as much hazard would be incurred by allowing it to remain,- even a doubtful remedy in fuch circum- ftances becomes eligible.—In this fitua- tion, by frequently and cautioufly injed- ing tepid water, the coagulated blood may be gradually fo much foftened and diflolvedii4 Of the Paracentefis Chap* XXI. diflblved as to be at laft evacuated. But when we hav6 It in our power to make a choice, it will be much for the interefl: of our patient, to prevent the neceffity of employing fuch a remedy, and which may commonly be done by making an incifion in the manner I have diredled in that part of the thorax where the blood appears to be colleded.—By fome pradi- tioners, particularly by Mr Sharpe, we are advifed, in cafes of blood colleded in the thorax, rather to truft to its being abforbed or coughed up from the lungs, than to endeavour to draw It off by this operation*.—Where blood is either ex- travafated in the fubftance of the lungs, and Is freely fpit up, or when It is even colleded in any of the cavities of the cheft, and in fuch fmall quantities as to produce no material impediment to the adion of the lungs or heart, it would no doubt be Improper to advife it to be dif- charged by an operation, as in courfe of 2 ^ time, Tl*eatife of the Operations of Surgery, chap, xxireSe£l. III. of the Thorax. 215 time, by blood-lettings being frequently repeated according to the ftrength of the patient ^ by the effed of a low cooling diet, and other remedies ufual in fuch cafes, there will be caufe to hope that it may be abforbed 3 and in the mean thne, while the quantity of extravafated blood is inconfiderable, no material inconve- nience can arife from it. But what I wifh to inculcate is, that when fuch a quantity of blood is collected in either of the cavities of the thorax, as to di- fturb the functions of the organs contain- ed in it, it ought by all means to be drawn off by a perforation. It is faid by Mr Sharpe, that, by allowing the blood to coagulate in the cheft, the orifice from whence it is poured will be more readily ftopt, than if it were quickly evacua- ted. But in anfwer to this, I mufi: re- mark, that if the wounded velTel is not of a confiderable fize, little or no addi- tional rilk will be incurred by drawing off the blood as^ it is poured cut, as in this cafe the hemorrhagy will probably * Hop216 of the Paracentefts Chap. XXI. flop on the patient’s becoming faint: And on the contrary, if the divided vef- fel is large, the remedy propofed by Mr Sharpe will not be fufficient for the pur- pofe; for a wound in any of the large veffels of the bread, will probably prove fatal, whether the operation of the para- centefis is performed or not. In performing this operation for blood collected in the thorax, the diredions I have propofed for difcharging*' ferum will in general prove equally applicable. On- ly, when the colledion is produced by a ruptured blood-veffel, induced either by a fradured bone, or by fome extraneous body being prelTed into it, the incilion Ihould be made as contiguous as poffible to the part affeded, fo that the opening may ferve not only for difcharging the blood, but for extrading fuch portions of bone as are found to be detached, or fuch foreign bodies as may be met with. And again, when a wound with a fliarp-point- ed inftrument is the caufe of the collec- tion, inftead of perforating any other partSedl. III. of the 1‘horax^ ' 21J SEC- Vot. V. O part of the cheft, It will commonly an- fwer the purpofe better, merely to en- large the wound; at leaft, this will al- ways be preferable, in wounds of the In- ferior part of the thorax; but when feat- ed fo high in the cheft, as to be unfit for difcharglng the blood contained in it, the operation muft then be performed between the feventh and eighth ribs, in the manner I have already pointed out., 218 of the Paracentefis Chap. SE C T I ON I\^ Of an Empyema^ or a ColleBion of Purulent Matter in the Phorax^ The marks of oppreflion on the heart- and lungs produced by purulent matter colleded In the thorax, are very fimilar to thofe that arife from colledilon^ of ferum, but in colledtions of pus, fymp^ toms take place that direcJi our opinion, not only of the nature of the difeafe, but in regard to the fpot in which it is feat- ed. It has been aflerted, that pus is fome- times depofited in particular parts, with^ out any previous inflammation. But this is allowed to be fo rare an occurrence, that we may lay it down as a fixed prin- ciple, that inflammation fliould be confi- dered as a neceflary forerunner of puru-^ lency j fo that an empyema,,we conclude,,. willof the Thorax. 219 Sect, IV, ■will never be met with, but as a confe- quence of an inflamed ftate of a particu- lar part. When, therefore, fuch fymp- toms take place, as indicate the exift- ence of a fluid colleiled in the thorax, if they have not been preceded by Inflam- mation of the part, we may conclude that they are not induced by purulent matter. But when a patient who has for fome time complained of a fixed pain in fome part of his cheft, attended with heat, a quick pulfe, and other fymptoms of inflammation, is at laft feized with an opprefTed refpiration^ an inclination to fit in an ered: pofture^ with a total ina- bility of lying on the found fide3 a con- ftant tickling cough 3 frequent rigors or fliiverings 3 and efpecially if thefe fymp- toms are accompanied either with an en- largement of the aflTeded fide, or with a foft oedematous fulnefs of the part in which the pain was at firfl: feated 3 we may conclude with much certainty, that a large colledion of matter is formed. O 2 InflammationOf the Paracentefis Chapr XXI. 220 Inflammation of fome portion of the lungs, or of their coverings, may be in* duced by various caufes. In fome inftan* ces, families appear to have an heredi- tary tendency to tubercles in the lungs,, which every flight attack of cold is apt to affed with inflammation. A natural Gontraded flate of the thorax feems like- wife to predifpofe thefe parts to inflame f and inflammation may be produced here, in the fame manner as in other parts of the body, by every variety of external violence. But by whatever mean^ the contents of the chefl: may have been brought into an inflamed date, when this terminates in fuppuratlon, if the matter, inflead of be- ing freely difcharged by the mouth, as is frequently the cafe, is found to produce all the fymptoms that I have already had occafion to enumerate of an opprefTed re- fpiration, the only remedy upon which any dependence fliould be placed, is a per- foration.. 3 Praditionersof the thorax. Sea. IV. 221 Praditioners In general have confider- ed this operation as more hazardous than it really is 3 and it has been fald, that It ought never to be advifed, but when the feat of the abfcefs is clearly pointed out by an external fwelling between two of the ribs* When the lungs become infla- med In a part that adheres to the pleura, abfcefles may form there; and when they are difcovered, they fhould no doubt be laid open. But although the opera- tion for the empyema, as it is common- ly termed, is of fome importance, and Ihould never be employed but when indi- cated by neceflity 3 yet I do not think that It can ever be attended with fo much rilk as to render the formation of an ex- ternal abfcefs the only caufe for perform- ing it. When there is reafon to think, that previous inflammation in fome part of the breaft, with evident marks of this having terminated in fuppuration, is the caufe of an oppreffed breathing, and when the fymptopis are not quickly relieved by a fre^ expedoration of matter, the O 3 operationOf the Paracentejis Chap. XXL 222 operation of the paracentefis fhould be performed immediately on that fpot where the colledion Is fuppofed to be feated, whether any external marks of an abfcefs exift or not. It may frequently happen, that no matter will be difchar- ged on the perforation being made into the cheft, for we know from experience, that abfeefles are often feated in the fubftance of the lungs, and not In either of the cavities of the cheft. But, even in fuch inftances, the perforation may prove ufeful, as the lungs, by lofing their ufual fupport at a particular point, will more readily yield than they otherwife would do to the matter collecled in them, while, if the matter is already poured in- to the cavity of the cheft, a perforation being made Into it, is the only remedy that can fave the patient. I am there- fore clearly of opinion, that, in all fuch cafes, the paracentefis of the thorax fliould be advifed. The direfiions given In the two prece- ding fedions, will apply with equal pro-223 of the f borax. Sea. IV, priet j In colleaions of pus: Only, it mufl: be remarked, when the feat of an abfcefs is pointed out, either by a long continu- ance of pain in any one point, or by mat- ter being diftinguilhed between two of the ribs, that this is by much the befl dl- reaion for the place of the incifion. But when no fuch mark is met with, the place that I have advifed for the o,peration when water or blood is to be difcharged, will anfw’er equally well for the dlfcharge of matter. It is likewife neceflary to obferve, that, in purulent colleaions, proceeding from external injuries, particularly from pene- trating wounds, no operation can be ne- ceffary if the wound producing the ab- fcefs is fo fituated as to difcharge the matter; but when the wound is found to be too high in the thotax for anfwering this purpofe, a perforation in a more de- pending fituation becomes neceflary: And, again, when the matter is feated fo im- mediately below the fternum that it can- M.ot be difcharged by an opening between O 4 two224 Of the Paracentejis Chap. XXI? two of the ribs, a piece of that bone muft be removed with the trepan, as I have al- ready advifed, when fpeaking of collec- tions of ferum. In abfceffes in thefe parts, the matter is commonly firfl formed in the fubftance of the lungs, and afterwards difcharged into one Or other of the cavities of the cheft. It fometimes happens, however, that large quantities of pus are found be- |;ween the pleura and furface of the lungs, without any apparent affedion of ths^ organ; and feem to proceed from an in- flamed ftate of the furface of the pleura. Thefe cqlledions, however, feldom con- tinue long without producing ulceration ^nd when ulceration has taken place, the difcharge of matter that fucceeds to the operation of the paracentefis generally continues for a great length of time. Different caufes concur to render the cure of abfcefles in the breafl more te- dious than in other parts; The conllant piotiqn of the lungs ^ our not daring td induceSe6t. IV. of the Hhorax. 225 induce that degree of inflammation that we know to be the mofl: powerful means of uniting parts that have been divided by the formation of mattery and the effe£t of compreflion being precluded by the intervention of the ribs. Although, in a few inftances, the quantity of matter gra- dually becomes lefs, and the external opening contrads and heals; yet, from the caufes I have mentioned, in a great proportion of thofe who have under- gone the operation for the empyema, or who have had large colledions of mat- ter in the breaft as the effed of acciden- tal wounds, the difcharge continues for a great length of time, mofl: frequently for life. The fore, indeed, will often heal if it be not artificially kept open; but the matter almofl: conftantly burfts out again, or another operation becomes neceflary to difcharge it, when it colleds again in fuch quantities as to produce a renewal of the fymptoms of oppreffion on the lungs and heart. I have already had occafion to advert %o this fubjed when treating of wounds of226 Of the Paracentefts Chap. XXL t3f the thorax In Chapter III. Sedlion XL At prefent, I only think it neceflary to obferve, that although, in the treatment of wounds, the general ufe of tents, whe- ther folid or hollow, has been condemn- ed with much propriety; yet that we are evidently milled by falhion, when we lay them entirely alide in wounds that pene- trate the breaft. I know that it is the opinion of many praditioners, that tents of every kind Ihould be exploded; but I alfo know, that patients, who might o- therwife have been faved, have frequently fulFered by this rule being too generally adopted. As long as the matter of an abfcefs in the thorax continues to find an eafy vent, and is difcharged freely either by the wound by which it was produced, when this Is fufficient for the purpofe, or by a perforation made for drawing it off, when this is found to be necelTary, there can be no caufe for employing tents ; and in flich circumftances, indeed, It would be improper to ufe them. But when the opening in the thorax heals too quickly ;227 Sea. IV. of the Tthorax. quickly; when, In confequence of this, the matter does not find a free vent, and fymptoms of opprefled breathing fuper- vene^ in fuch circumftances, the pro- priety of preferving a paflage for the matter is obvious : Repeated experience , has convinced me, that this may be done both with eafe and fafety, by introducing a Ihort tube of filver or lead into the opening, and allowing it to remain for a few hours, as often as a tendency to heal makes it necefiary. By negleaing this, and allowing fuch fores to heal, as is now commonly done, much mifchief is done, which, with this kind of attention, might be eafily prevented. SEC-228 Of the Paracentejis Chap. XXI. SECTION V. Of Air extravafated in the Thorax. A I R colleded In either of the cavi- ties of the cheft, excites the fame fymptoms of oppreflion on the lungs and heart, as thofe arifing from water, blood, or matter ; it therefore becomes equally an objedl of chirurgical management. Colledions of air may be produced In the thorax by different caufes. I. We know that the procefs of putre- fa6lion tends to extricate air from every part of the body in which it takes place ; fo that air may be collecfted in the thorax, from any of the organs contained in it being feized with mortiffcation. This va- riety of the difeafe, however, will feldom fallSe6l. V. of the Thorax. 229 fall under the care of the furgeon : For the caufe by which it is produced can fcarcely be fuppofed to yield to any re- medies that may be employed for it j and unlefs the mortification is . removed, no advantage can be expected from any ope- ration. 2. Air may pafs into one or both of the cavities of the chefl:, from a rupture of the invelling membrane of the lungs, and this again may occur from violent exertion in coughing, laughing, and cry- ing, as well as from other caufes. 3. The furface of the lungs may be eroded by ulceration, or by purulent mat- ter in contact with them becoming acrid, by which a palTage may be given for air into one or other of thefe cavities. 4. Wounds penetrating the lungs have fometimes produced colledions of air in the cheft. But in fuch inftances, the wound muft be made with a fmalU pointed inftrument puflied in an oblique direction. A wound produced by an in- ftrument carried forward in a direct line into230 Of the Faracentefis Chap. XXI* into the lungs, does not fo readily pro- duce colledlions of air, as the air that e- fcapes from the lungs pafles out at the wound : But in oblique wounds, the air does not eafily efeape, as the parts natural- ly fall together; in which ftate they ope- rate in the fame maner as a valve, fo that the extravafated air muft neceflarily col- led in one or other of the cavities. 5. The point of a fradured rib wound- ing the lungs, is apt to induce colledions of air in the thorax 3 and a fradure of the flernum or of any of the vertebrae may operate in the fame manner. Thefe feveral caufes may occafionally produce extravafated air in the thorax 5 but we meet with it more frequently from fradures of the ribs than from any of the others. The fymptoms produced by air elfufed in the thorax, differ only in this from thofe that occur from ferum and purulent matter, that they come more quickly to an alarming height: Inftances have oc- curred of death being induced in the I fpaceSe(S. V. of the Thorax» 231 fpace of a few hours from the fradure of a rib, merely by air collecSing in large quantities between the pleura and lungs r In fome^ perhaps in the greatefl: proportion of all that occur, along with this collec- tion of air in the cheft, the cellular fub- fiance of the breafl becomes inflated > and if means are not foon employed to prevent it, the air infinuates through eve- ry part of the body. It is truly aflonilhing to obferve, how quickly a fradured rib, when it wounds the furface of the lungs, will in fome in- •flances induce the moft alarming fymp- toms.—The patient at firfl: complains of tightnefs in the breafl, attended with op- j preflion in breathing, along with pain in the parts chiefly affeded.—This difficult refpiration becomes more diftrefsful. ^ The patient cannot breathe in a recum- bent poflure, and is always eafiefl when ered and leaning fomewhat forward: — The face becomes flulhed and fwelled :— The pulfe is commonly feeble, and at laft it becomes irregular:—The extremities become232 of the Paracentejii Chap. XXI* become cold; and if relief is not quick- ly obtained, the patient is at laft carried off with every mark of fuffocation. The emphyfematous fwelling of the ex- ternal parts of the cheft, that fometimes takes place here, is eafily diftinguilhed from watery effulions,by the cracklingproduced on preflure; the fenfation it communicates being nearly fuch as is received from preflure upon a dry bladder when nearly filled with air. For the removal of thi^ fymptom, fcarifications have been em* ployed. By making feveral incifions, each about half an Inch in length, along the courfe of the fwelling, a good deal of air may be difcharged, efpecially if the air contained in the fwelling is frequent- ly prefled towards thefe openings. A con- fiderable quantity, too, of the air colled- ed in the thorax, will be drawn off by the fame means: For, as foon as any part of it pafles off from the cellular mem- brane, its place will be immediately fiip- plied from the cheft ; and if the quan- tity that efcapes by the wound in the lungs^233 Sed. V. of theT^horax. lungs, is not greater than the quantity dif- charged by the fcarifications, the whole in this manner may foon be removed. But it frequently happens, that the air forced out from the lungs is much more than can pafs off by any number of fcarifica- tions that can be made ^ in which cafe, any relief obtained for the mofl important fymptom, the opprefled refpiration, is al- ways inconfiderable. Till of late patients in this fituatioii almofl: conftantly died 3 for when fcari- fications failed in difcharging the air, and even this remedy has not been long in ufe, praditioners were not acquainted with j any other means of relief.—But we now know, that in all fuch cafes, where the opprefled date of breathing is great, and where the fymptoms are evidently indu- ced by air colleded in the cheft, that the fame remedy fhould be employed for re- moving it, as is found to fucceed in col- lodions of any other fluid, viz. the ope- ration of the paracentefis ^ and it has ac- cordingly of late years been frequently VoL. V. P performed.^34 0/ the Paracentefis Chap. XXI. performed, and always with complete fuccefs y the tenfion in the breafl, diffi- culty of breathing, and every other fymp- tom being immediately relieved on a per- foration being made through the pleura With a view to prevent the inconveni- encies that refult from the external air finding accefs to the cavities of the cheft, it has been propofed to make the opening with a trocar inftead of a fcalpelj and by entering the. inflrument in an obMque diredtion, this purpofe would no doubt be anfw-ered. When the cheft is completely filled with air, and if certainty could be obtained, * that no adhefions exifled between the lungs and pleura, the operation might be performed with fafety, and with more eafe by the trocar than with any other inflrument. But as we can never know with precifion whether the lungs adhere or not, I am, for thefe and other reafons 1 mentioned ' * This operation for the evacuation of air from the cheft was firft propofed by Dr Monro, about the ye^r 1.760, in his le^ures in this Uuiverlity,Sedl. V. tf the thorax. 235 mentioned In a preceding part of this chaptef, induced to think that the ope- ration may be done with more fafety with the fcalpel. And if the diredlions that I have given are obferved, of retract- ing the (kin from the part to be perfora- ted; of introducing a canula immediately Into the opening in the pleura, as foon as air begins to efcape; and drawing the retraced Ikin over this perforation, into the cheft, as foon as the canula is with- drawn, the operation may be done with more certainty of avoiding the lungs, in the event of their adhering to the pleura, and probably with more fuccefs in every refpedl, than when the trocar alone is em- ployed. ^ The pradice, therefore, ,that I would incline to follow, is, in the firft place, to make feveral incifions along the courfe of the fwelling, each of a half Inch in length, and of fuch a depth, as to pafs entirely through the Ikin into the cellu- lar membrane: And if thefe do not af- ford relief, which, however, thev fre-- P 2 quently23^ Paracentefis Chap. XXI. quently do, to proceed immediately to perforate the cavity of the cheft, in the maiii^er I have advifed, and as near as poffible to the injured part, when the ma- lady has been induced by external vio- lence, if this be not near to the back- bone 3 in which cafe the perforation fhould be in the mofl depending part of the thorax, as I have already advifed im colledions of water, blood, and mat- ter. And when p oduced by violent ex- ertion in coughing, crying, or laughing, the particular feat of the complaint will in general be difcovered by fome degree of pain in the injured part. CHAP-237 Chap. XXII. of the Abdomen. CHAPTER XXII. Of the Paracentefis of the Abdomen. IT is the efFedt of various difeafes to produce colledlions of fluids in the ca- vity of the abdomen : Occafionally thcfe colledtions are removed by the internal exhibition of medicines, though in a great proportion of cafes, we are obliged to employ the operation of Paracentefis or Tapping. There is naturally fecreted into the ca- vity of the peritonaeum, a ferous exhala- tion, for the purpofe of lubricating and keeping moifl: the furface of the inteftines. Various caufes may concur to produce a morbid increafe of this fecretion^ and whenever the quantity colleded in the P 3 abdomen238 Of the Paracentefis. Chap. XXIL abdomen Is large, it conftitutes a difeafe termed Afcites. This variety of dropfy often accompa- nies a general difeafe of the fyftem, be- ing frequently combined with anafarca ; but in fome inftances it is local,, and is evidently induced by compreffion of the lymphatics; moft frequently by fchirrous fweliings of fome of the vifcera; com- monly indeed by an enlarged ftate of the liver. The prefence of a fluid in the cavity of the abdomen, is known by the fwelling that takes place; by a fenfe of tightnefs in the parts affedled ; by the breathing being difficult and laborious, when the patient is in a horizontal pofture ; and by a fenfe of fluduation being communica- ted to the fingers placed on one fide of the abdomen, when the fwelling is for- cibly ftruck on the oppofite fide. A con- currence of thefe circumllances will al- ways, to a difcerning practitioner, point out the real nature of the difeafe; but a farther confirmation is obtained of it when the patient complains of much 3 thirft,Chap. XXII. cf the Abdomen. 239 thlrft, a dry Ikin, fcarclty of urine, and other fymptoms of dropfy. When the fwelling is found to extend- equally over the abdomen, the ferum is commonly Wiffufed among the different vifcera, and is contained within the pe- ritonaeum only. It fornetimes happens, however, that it is colledled in different cyfts, or perhaps in one or both of the ovarian in which cafe, the tumor is not commonly fo equal, nor k the fludluation fo. diftindlly perceived, as when the wa- ter flows freely through the whole cavity. This circumflance of fludluatlon depends alfo on the confiflence of the fluid ^ for, we fornetimes find it thick and gelatinous, whilfl: moft frequently it is thin and per- fedtly ferous. In foihe inftances, too, an innumerable quantity of fmall hydatides are found fwimming in the water of afci- tical fwellings. Whatever may be the influence of diu- retics' and other evacuants in the cure of general hydropic affedlions, they rarely prove ufeful, as I have elfewhere obferved, P4 m240 of the Paracentefis Chap. XXII. in local collecSIons. The principal objed:, therefore, to be kept in view here is, to dlfcharge the water collected in the abdo- men, by a chirurgical operation, as foon as its exiftence is afcertained ; while the mod: elFedual remedies fhould in the mean time be employed for preventing a recur- rence of the difeafe. This indeed is often impradicable : But, in fome cafes, cures are accomplilhed; and it would probably happen more frequently, if fhe fluid col- lected in the belly was more early dif- charged. In general, this is delayed too long; for the bowels muft furely be great- ly injured by being fo longToaked in wa- ter, as ufually happens in afcites, before the operation is advifed. This, too, is the more improper, as the operation of tapping is in itfelf exceedingly Ample. It excites little pain; and any danger at- tending it does not proceed fo much from the nature of the operation, as from the conftitution being, ill general, much de- bilitated by the long continuance of the difeafe before it is performed; which rendersChap. XXII. of the Abdomen. 241 renders it liable to confequences that otherwife would not occur, and which frequently terminate fatally. I am fo perfedly convinced indeed of this, that I commonly advife the water to be drawn off as foon as a fluctuation is diftinClly perceived; and I have never been fen- Able of any harm being done by it. In large collections of any kind of fluid, wherever they are fituated, and more par- ticularly when in the abdomen, the fitua- tion of a great number of large blood- veflels, it is foilnd to be exceedingly ha- zardous to difcharge their contents fud- denly ^ owing, as we fuppofe, to the im- mediate influence produced upon the cir- culating fyftem, by our thus depriving it too quickly of a fupport to which it had for a long time been accuftomed. But whatever may be the immediate caufe of the fymptoms refulting from hid- den evacuations of this kind, the eifeCl is always certain. Syncope often happens; and death itfelf fometimes enfues from it. This,242 of the Faracentefis Chap. XXII. This, in former times, made tapping a hazardous operation ^ and when the col- ledion \yas large, in order to avoid thofe incoriveniencies that enfued from the wa^. ter being all drawn off at once, it was done at different times, a day or two be- ing commonly allowed to intervene be- tween one operation and another. This, however, proved very inconve- nient and dlftrefsful ; and by the fre- quent introduction of the trocar which thus became neceffary, mortification of the wound, and other troublefome confe- quences, were apt to enfue. The late Dr Mead, refleding on the probable caufe of thofe fymptoms arifing from the fudden difcharge of large collec- tions of water, was induced to try the .ef- fe6t of preffiire upon the parts affected, as a fubftitute for the fupport of which they are deprived by the evacution : And the fuccefs attending the praftice has ful- ly jufllfied the ideas that he entertained of it; for when preffure is properly ap- plied, almoft any quantity of water that the243 Chap. XXil. of the Abdomen. -the abdomen can contain, may with fafe- ty be drawn ofF. It ought, however, to be applied with much equality, over the whole belly 3 and it fhould be continued without interruption for the fpace of fe~ veral days after the operation. Various means have been propofed for applying equal, preillire in this operation 3 but none of them anfwers the purpofe fo eafily, and with fo much effedt, as a ban- dage invented by the late Dr Monro, re- prefented in Plate LXII. fig. 2. Two different fizes of this bandage fhould be always in readinefs 3 and they fliauld be made fo large as to cover the whole ab- domen, and tQ prefs with equality upon every part of it. It is not neceffary to recapitulate the means ufed informer times, for difchar- ging hydropic collections. For they are now very univerfally, and with much pro- priety, laid afide; the trocar being the only inftrument at prefent employed for this purpofe. This Inftrument, till of late, was always round, with a triangular point.244 Q/' Paracentefis Chap. XXII. point. As this form, however, is evident- ly ill calculated for an eafy entrance of the inftrument, an object of great impor- tance in every operation, I was led a good many years ago to the ufe of a flat trocar with a lancet point, reprefented in Plate LVIII. fig. I. This has always anfwer- ed the purpofe properly ; but fome im- provements have been propofed upon it, by which it is made to enter with ftill more eafe. In Plate LIX. fig. 2. I have delineated a very neat invention by Mr Andree, It has been objeded, however, to this inftrument, and I be- lieve with good reafon, that the canu- la, by confining of two fides which fall together with fome force on the ftilette being withdrawn, may thus lay hold of a portion of inteftine ; and if this Ihould ever occur, a great deal of diftrefs would no doubt enfue from it. In Plate LVIII. fig. 2. an improvement upon the trocar is given, to which no fuch objection occurs: It enters with the fame eafe as a lancet; and the two fides of the canula, by not 2 fallingChap. XXII. of the Abdomen. 245 falling clofe together, can never injure the inteftines. In performing the operation, It has been faid, that the opening may be made with almoft equal propriety in any part of the inferior boundaries of the abdomen. This, however, is not the cafe : For, in the centre of the abdomen. Immediately below the umbilicus, and In the courfe of the redi-mufcles, it might fall upon the epigaftric artery; and, if carried near to either of the ofla ilia, the inteftines would more readily be injured than if made nearer the navel. The moft ap- proved part for the perforation feems to be, at a point lying at nearly an equal diftance between the umbilicus and the centre of the fpine of the Ilium. No large blood-veflels can probably be wound- ed here.—The abdominal parietes are not in this part entirely tendinous 3 but are fomewhat flefliy, fo that they more rea- dily heal when wounded.—None of the inteftines can in this fituation be injured; and when the patient is laid in a horizon- ^tal246 Of the Paracentefis Chap. XXIL tal pofture, in which he ought always to be during the whole courfe of the opera- tion, the point that I have mentioned will be found to be more depending than perhaps any other. The operation being determined upon, the method of performing it is this : The point in which the perforation is tb be made fhould be marked with ink: And in applying the blandage, Plate LXII. one of the openings fhould be placed exactly oppofite to this mark. The bandage be- ing accordingly applied in this manner, and the ftraps being put through the buckles, and drawn a little tight, the pa- tient fhould now be laid in a horizontal pofture, with his head fomewhat eleva- ted, and the fide to be perforated ly- ing over the fide of the bed. The fur- geon is now to take the trocar in his right hand; and fixing the head of the flilette in the palm of his hand, while his fore-finger dife6fs the point of the in- ftrument, he is now to pufh it forward till he finds that the end of the canula is entirely through the mufcles, and lodged inChap. XXII. af the Abdomen. 24j in the cavity of the abdomen; which he may be certain is the cafe, when he finds no farther refiftance to the ftilette. The ftilette is now to be'withdrawn, and the canula allowed to remain as long as the dif- charge continues, care being taken to pull the bandage gradually tighter as the water flows off; or, if the patient, not- withftanding this precaution, lhall be- come languid, a total flop Ihould be put to the evacuation for a few minutes, which is eafily done by the furgeon pla- cing his finger from time to time on the mouth of the canula. It fometimes happens in the courfe of the operation, that the difcharge flops before the fwelling is much diminilhed: When this is owing to a portion of omen- tum or intefline flopping up the extre- mity of the canula, the difcharge is ea- fily renewed by inferting a blunt probe in- to it, fo as to pufli back w^hatever may have plugged it up; or w^hen the ferum is thick and gelatinous, in order to effedl a complete evacuation, it may fometimes be248 Of the Paracentefis Chap. XXIL The be neceflary to introduce a trocar of a larger fize than the one firfl; employed. But when it proceeds, as is fometimes the cafe, from the water being collefted in particular cyfts, no attempt of this kind will have any effedt; in fuch circumftan- ces, the canula mufl: be withdrawn, and the wound being covered in the ordi- nary way with a pledgit of any Ample ointment, the operation may be renewed either immediately or on the following day, on the oppofite fide of the abdomen^ or if the fwelling is confined to any other part of the belly, the perforation mufl; be made in the mofl depending part of it^ wherever that may b"e. Dropfical fwellings of the ovaria exhi- bit nearly the fame appearances with en- cyfled dropfies of any other kind: Only, in colledlions of this kind in the ovaria, the fluituation of a fluid is not commonly very ^iftiiKfl 3 and unlefs they are compli- cated with afcites, the fwelling is com- monly confined to one fide of the abdo- men.249 Chap. XXII. of the Abdomen. The propriety of drawing off the wa- ter by a perforation, is here, however, equally obvious as in any other variety of the difeafe : That is, when we wifh to di- minifh or remove the tumor, it muft ne- cellarily be done in this manner; but I think it right to obferve, that, in dropli- cal fwellings in the ovaria, the difeafe does not increafe fo rapidly as in com- mon cafes of afcites; neither does it ap- pear to injure the conftitution fo much, aiid the water not being in contadl with the inteftines, we are not in this variety of the difeafe under the fame necelGty of adviling the perforation ear- ly. The water being all drawn off, and the opening drefled in the manner I have ad- vifed, the bandage muft ftill be continu- ed fufficiently tight for preventing thofe diftrefsful feelings that the fudden dif- charge of the water would otherwlfe be fure to induce: And there is even reafon to think, that the fupport which the ban- VoL.V. dage25^ Q/* Paracentefis Chap, XXII, dage affords to the weakened parts may have fome effect in preventing a return of the difeafe ^ but when notwithftanding of this, and of fuch internal remedies as are employed, the water is again found to colled, the operation falls to be repeated whenever the fwelling be- comes large. Afcites is perhaps the mod: frequent variety of tumor to which the abdomen is liable; but in fome inftances, inllead of water, tumors of the abdomen are found to contain air, conftituting a difeafe term- ed Tympanites. The effect produced by this .upon the breathing, is nearly the fame as what enfues from colledions of water; but the fwelling itfelf is much more tenfe than the other, and affords to the touch and prefRire nearly the fame fenfation as is received from a bladder filled with air. In a great proportion of cafes of tym- panites, the air after death has been found in the inteftines; which, in fome inftan- ces,Chap. XXII. of the Abdomen. 25t ces, have been Inflated to a moft enor« mous fize. This I fuppofe to proceed from the inteflines lofing their tone. But there is another variety of the difeafe, in which the air is difiufed in the cavity of the peritonaeum, in a fimilar manner to water in cafes of afcites; I have feen one inftance of this^ and I have heard of an- other which happened lately in this^ place; but in both the air was found to have efcaped from a fmall hole in one of the intefllnes. I am therefore inclined to believe, that this variety of tympa- nites very commonly proceeds from com- munication having taken place between the alimentary canal and the cavity of the peritonaeum; and therefore, that any remedies we can employ mufl:, where this is the cafe, be of no avail. But from whatever caufe. the difeafe may have ari- fen, and whether the air fhould be con- tained within the bowels themfelves, or diffufed In the cavity of the peritonaeum, no doubt fhould be entertained of the pro- priety of difcharging it, as foon as it ap- 0^2 pears252 of the Faracentefis Ghap. XXIf,. pears to have brought the life of the pa- tient into danger. This may be eafiiy done in the very manner I have direded for afcites; ta- king care to ufe a trocar of the fmallefl fize, and to etnploy preiliire in the fame guarded manner. as when the tumor is formed by water. For as the air will by its preflure produce nearly the fame ef- fects upon the neighbouring parts as we find to arife from water, it is equally ne- ceflTary to employ fuch a degree of com- preflion after it is difcharged as will ob- viate the effeds of abftrading it. To perforate the abdomen for air colleded in the inteflines, is no doubt a very formi- dable operation, and ought not to be at- tempted but in cafes of the greatefl; dan- ger 3 but as death has often enfued from this variety of the difeafe, and of which. I have met with different inftances, I am clearly of opinion,, when the remedies prefcribed by the phyfician for removing it have failed, that the afliftance of fur- geryChap. XXII. of the Abdomen. 253 gery fliould always be defired, rather than allow the patients to die in certain mife- ry. The fame remedy is frequently and fuccefsfully employed for difcharging air colleded in the ftomach and bowels of other animals : We have much reafon, therefore, to hope, that in the human fpecles the fame effedls would refult from it. After the operation of tapping, whe- ther in afcites or collections of air, we are commonly advifed to rub the abdo- men from time to time with aftringent fpirituous applications. This can never do harm : It may fometimes ferve 'to reftore the tone of the integuments, and as the friction employed in it may tend to pro- mote abforption, it ought never to be omit- ted. For the firfl; two days after the ope- ration, it cannot be employed, as during that period the bandage ought not to be removed : But^this being elapfed, the ban- dage may be removed daily for about a quarter of an hour at once, for the pur- pofe of rubbing the abdomen with cam* 3 phorated254 the ParacentefiSy &c. Ch. XXII. phorated fpirit of wine, or volatile lini- ment ^ care being taken to preferve the body during the time of it in a horizon- tal pofture, and to renew the application of the bandage as foon as the fridlion is over. CHAP-Of Hernia, 255 Se£t. I- CHAPTER XXIII. Of Hernia. SECTION I. Of Hernia in general. The term Hernia might with pro- priety be applied to every fwelling produced by the diflodgement of, parts from thofe boundanes within which in a Rate of health they are contained^ but the term in its general acceptation, im- 0^ 4 plies,Of Hernice. Chap. XXIII. 256 plies, a tumor produced by the protru- lion of parts from the cavity of the ab- domen. The parts in which Herniae ufually ap- pear, are the groin, fcrotum, labia puden- di, the upper and fore part of the thigh, the umbilicus, and different points be- tween the interftices of the abdominal mufcles. . If the fituation of thefe tumors is va- rious, the vifcera which they contain are ftill more fo. Inftances have occurred of the ftomach, uterus, liver, fpleen, and bladder, being found in them. But they more frequently contain a portion of the omentum or alimentary canal, and in fome inftances a portion of both. From the fituation and contents of her- nise, all the appellations are derived by which this kind of tumor is diftinguifhed. Thus Hernise are termed Inguinal, Scrotal, Femoral,Umbilical,andVentral, from their appearing in the groin, fcrotum, thigh, navel, or belly. When confined to the groin, a hernia is faid to be incomplete, and257 Sect. I. Of Hernia. and is termed Bubonocele ^ but, when the tumor reaches to the bottom of the fero- turn, the rupture is then fuppofed to be complete, and the difeafe obtains the name of Scrotal Rupture, or Ofchiocele. When a portion of gut alone forms the tumor, it is called an Enterocele, or In- teftlnal Hernia; when a piece of omen- tum only has got down, it is termed Epi- plocele, or Omental Hernia^ and if both inteftine and omentum are down, it is call- ed an Entero-epiplocele, or Compound Rupture. As all the abdominal vifeera are appa- rently contained within the cavity of the peritonaeum, and as it was judged to be impoffible for that membrane to admit of fuch a degree of diilontion, as to furround tumors containing fuch large portions of the vifeera' as are fometimes protruded, it was therefore till of late imagined, that at lead in a great proportion of ca- fes, the peritonaeum is burft or ruptured; and from this the term Rupture feems to have been adopted: The opinion was far- therOf Hernicd. Chap. XXIII. 258 ther confirmed, from its being obferved, that in fcrotal hernia, the protruded vif- cera were in fome inftances found in con- tadl with the tefticle 3 a circumftance, which it was fuppofed could not happen, if the peritonaeum had not been previouf- ly ruptured. Since the anatomy of thefe parts, how- ever, was better underftood, this circum- ftance, of parts protruded from the ab-- domen being in fome inftances found in contadl with the tefticle, is explained in a more fatisfacftory manner than on the fuppofition of a rupture of the peritonae- um y and as the nature of herniae will be better underftood by an anatomical de- fcription of the parts concerned in their produdion being premifed, I fhall, before proceeding farther, endeavour to defcribe them: The parts, chiefly concerned in Herniae, are, the abdominal mufcles 3 the peritonaeum^ tefticles, and fpermatic vef- fels. The fides and other flefhy boundaries of. the abdomen are formed by five, pairs ofof Hernia. Sea. I. 259 of mufcles; the redi, pyramidales, tranf- verfales, obliqui interni, and obliqui ex- terni. In fome fubjeas, the pyramidales ai'e wanting; and as the obliqui externi are tbofe which in hernia are moft conneaed with the difeafe, I fliall here defcribe thefe only. The obliqui externi are two thin, broad mufcles: on their pofterior and upper parts they are flelhy; and tendinous on their anterior and lower parts. They origi- nate from the eighth, ninth, and inferior ribs, by flefhy portions which intermix in a ferrated manner wdth correfponding parts of the latiflimus dorfi, ferratus ma- jor anticus, peaoralis major, and inter- coftales: And afterwards becoming ten- dinous, they form the greatefl: part of all the anterior furface of the abdomen, and are inferred into the linea alba, the fpine of the os ilium, and the os pubis. On each fide of the under part of the abdo- men immediately above the pubes, two openings are met with in thefe tendons, intendedOf Hernia. Chap. XXIIL 26o intended for the pafTage.of the fpermatic veflels in men, and for the ligaments of the womb in women. Thefe openings, or rings as they are termed, which feem to be formed merely by a feparation of the fibres of the tendon from one another, are of an oval figure, and have an ob- lique diredion from the fpine of the ile- um downwards; they are fomewhat wi- der above than below, and are rather of a larger fize in men than in women. Although thefe rings or openings have been commonly defcribed as palling thro’ ' not only the external oblique, but the tranf- verfales and internal oblique mufcles al- fo p yet we now certainly know, that it is in the tendinous parts of the external oblique mufcle only, that any fuch open- ing exifts. It is of fome importance to be |:hordughly acquainted with this; for, by the accounts received of it from books, we are led to fuppqfe, that, inftead of one diftincl paflage, there are always three, Thefe mufcles are likewife perforated in the middle by the umbilicus, which af- fordsOf Hernia. Sed. I. 261 fords a paffage for the conneding veflels between the mother and uterine foetus, and which Is fo far continued through life, that the fpace is filled up with cellular fub- ftance only. From the inferior border of the tendi- nous part of the external oblique mufcle, a detachment of fibres is fent off, which, after affording a firm covering to the in- guinal glands, are lofl in the fafcia lata of the thigh: And ftxe under edge of this tendon being folded inwards, obtains the appearance of a ligament, which ftretches from the fore part of the os ileum to the pubes, forming a kind of arch, through which the great blood-veffels of the low- er extremity pafs to the thigh. It is this ligamentous-like portion of the external oblique mufcle, that is known by the appellation of the ligament of Poupart or Fallopius. This paffage for the blood-veffels of the thigh, bei g larger in women than in men, owing to the greater fize of the pel- vis in the former, by which the arch form- ed262 ' Of Hernia. Chap. XXIIL ed by Poupart’s ligament is rendered both longer and wider ^ fo in them the crural hernia, or that variety of the difeafe form- ed by a protrufion of parts through this paffage, is more frequent than in men. The internal furface of the mufcles of the abdomen, together with every other part of that cavity, is lined with a fmooth fomewhat elaftic membrane, termed Peri- tonseum. This membrane, befides lining the cavity of the belly, furnifhes the ex- ternal covering to almoft all the vifcera contained in it^ but, in fo lingular a man- ner are thefe coverings produced, that al- though at firft fight the different vifcera appear all to be contained vrithin the ca- vity of the perltonseum, yet on minute ex- amination they are in reality found to lie behind it. The peritonaeum, after having com- pletely lined the cavity of the abdomen, is continued or refleded over all the vif- cera, fo as to give an external covering to each. After furrounding one vifcus, it ftretches along to the moll contiguous, forming263 Sea. I. of Hernia* forming In Its courfe the fupporting mem- branous ligament of the liver and other vifcera; and affording In its dupllcature a kind of fupport or conneaion to the va- rious blood-veffels, as they ftretch along to their deftined fituatlons in the intefU- nal canal and other organs. Behind the peritonaeum there is a quan- tity of loofe cellular fubflance, by authors commonly termed Its Appendix. In feme parts this fubftance is filled with fat 3 and in others it is empty, and can eafily be filled with air. The teftes In the foetus, till near the period of delivery, are lodged in the ca- vity of the abdomen, In the fame manner with the reft of the abdominal vlfcera. They are fituated Immediately below the kidneys, on the fore , part of the pfote mufcles, near to the upper end and by the fide of the redtum' where their external covering adheres by its pofterior fiirface to thofe parts of the perifonseum on which they reft, while all theiranterior and la- teral furfaces lie loofe in the abdominal ^ cavity264 Of Hernia. Chap. XXIII. cavity in contad with the other vifcera. Even in this lituation, however, a con- nedion takos place between the tefles and fcrotum. This is formed by means of a fubftance that runs down from the un- der end of the teftis to the fcrotum, form- ing a kind of pyramidal fliaped ligament ^ its large bulbous head being fixed to the lower end of the teftis and epididymis; and its under extremity, after having paf- fed through the ring in the external ob- lique mufcle, being loft in the cellular membrane of the fcrotum. This liga- ment is evidently vafcular and fibrous, and feems in paiT to be compofed of the cremafter mufcle turned inwards All that portion of. the ligament con- tained within the parietes of the abdo- men pafles behind the peritonaeum, and receives a covering from it in the fame manner with the teftes and other vifce- ra; * See a very accurate account of the Anatomy of thefe parts by Mr J. Hunter, in l)r Hunter’s Medical Commentaries.Se6t. I. Of Her nice t 265 ra^ and the peritonaeum even gives a coat to a portion of the ligament after it has got into the groin, by pailing down along with it from the abdomen into the upper part of the inguen. At this place, viz, at the annular open- ing of the external oblique mufcle, the peritonaeum is vety loofe y and when the ligament and fcrotum are drawn down- wards, an aperture is obferved from the cavity of the abdomen all around the fore part of the ligament, that feems ready to receive the teftis; and this aperture gradually becomes larger as the teftis de- fcends behind the peritonaeum in its way to the fcrotum. While the tefticle is rea- dy to defcend, it does not fall down, as has been commonly imagined, along die fore part of the peritonaeum, between it and the other vifcera; but the ligament I have defcribed, as lying behind the pe- ritonaeum, and which is connedled with the teftis at its under and pofterior parts, by direding or pulling it down as it were, from behind, brings it in this manner a- VoL. V. R tong266 Of Hernicc. Chap. XX1H. long the pfoas mufcle between It and the peritonaeum} and that part; of this mem- brane to which I havp fhown that the tef- ticle adheres, being necellarily drawn a- long with it, a kind of pouch or bag^ fomewhat refembling the finger of a glove, is thus formed by this elorfgation of the peritonaeum;, theunder extremity of which ftill continues to furround the teftis as it goes along, in the fame manner as it did while the teflicle refted upon the pfoas iliufcleand. the entrance from the abdo- men to the cavity of this procefs, is ex- actly at that point where the feftis was o- riginally fituated ; for it is there that this procefs commences when the teflis begins. to defcend.^ The peritonaeum being in a foetus re- markably lax and dilatable at this part, and being conne6^ed pofteriorly, as we have feen, with a quantity of loofe cellu- lar fubftance, its elongation produced by the defcent of the tefticle is in this man? ner provided for by nature, and of courfe is eafily admitted of. ItSedl. I. Of Herni(^. 267 It muft not, however, be fuppofed, that the teftls and peritonaeum in coming down fall loofely and without connedion ^ for, as they Hide down very flowly, they ftill continue to adhere to the parts lying be- hind them as they did when in the abdo- men. The precife time at which the teftis paffes down from its original fituation in the abdomen, cannot be afcertained ^ but in general, this change takes place about the eighth month. About this period, the teftis furrounded with the peritoneal pro- cefs, moves downwards till its under ex- tremity comes in contad with the moft inferior point of the abdominal parietes 3 and by this time the paflage through the tendon of the external oblique mufcle is found a good deal enlarged, by the li- gament of the teftis having fui]^ dowm wards fo as to dilate it. After the teftis has pafled the tendon of the mufcle, it commonly remains for fome time by the fide of the penis, and by degrees only defcends to the bottom of R 2 the268 Of Hernia. Chap. XXIIL the fcrotum; and even when it has got entirely into the fcrotum, its ligament is ftill conneded with it, and lies immedi- ately under it, but is Ihortened and com- prefled. The pi’^ocefs of the peritonaeum, which appears to defcend with the tellicle,, continues to cover it when it has reach- ed the fcrotum: It is this loofe cover- ing or bag, which is afterwards con- verted into what Anatoinifts term the Tunica Vaginalis Teftis; and from the defcriptlon which I have given of it,^ it is evident, that the cavity of this bag muft at firfl: cammunicate with the great peritoneal cavity of the abdomen. This it accordingly does, as a probe may be pafled readily and eafily along this pro- cels or bag, from the belly down .to the bottom of the fcrotum^ and if laid open through its whole length on the fore, part, it will be plainly feen to be a conti- nuation of the peritonaeum^ the teftis and epididymis will be found at the lower part " . a ofSed. I. Of Hernice, 269 of it without their loofe coat the tunica vaginalis; and as the fpermatic veflels andvas deferens, while the tefticle re- mained in the abdomen, entered the body of that gland behind, and between the refleded lamina of the peritonaeum, fo here when in the fcrotum they will be found covered by the pofterior part of the bag, in their whole courfe from the commencement of that procefs down the groin to the tefticle. This palTage from the cavity of the ab- domen to the fcrotum is in general very foon cut off, by a firm adhefion taking place between the fides of the peritoneal procefs at its upper extremity where it de- fcends from the abdomen. What the caufe of this adhefion may be, is uncertain; per- haps it may proceed from fome flight de- gree of inflammation being excited upon the contiguous parts by the forcible paf- fage of the teftis ; but whatever the caufe jnay be, the fad is, that at the time of R 3 birth270 ^ of Hernice. Chap. XXIII. birth this paflage In general is completely obliterated It is In the neck only, however, or in the fuperior part of this procefs, that this ad- hefion takes place: The lower extremity of the fac remains open and loofe through life, and forms, as I have already obfer- ved, the tunica vaginalis teftis, the com- mon feat of a hydrocele. If attention is given to this defcrlp- tlon, it mull appear, that if immediately upon the tefticle defcending from the ab- domen, and before the paflage is fufh- ciently contraded, any portion of the alimentary canal or omentum fhould like- wife fall into the opening, fuch parts muft for certain lodge in the fame bag or co- vering with the teftis itfelf ^ and as long as they remain there, that they muft ef- fedually * The defcent of the teftes from the abdomen is a phe- nomenon very difficult to account for, and its immediate caufe may probably always remain a myflery j but their being in almoft every inftance found in' the fcrotum before birth, is a clear proof of their not being forced down by the effeds of refpiration, as has been commonly'fuppofed.S'ed* I. Of Hernia. 271 fedlually prevent the ufual obliteration of the pafTage from being accompliflied. It is this occurrence of a portion of fome of the abdominal vifcera getting into the tunica vaginalis teftis, which forms that fpecies of hernia to which new-born infants are liable, termed by Haller Hernia Congenita. The tefticle and protruded inteftine being here in con- tadlj the tunica vaginalis teftis forms the hernia.1 fac. If the gut, or other parts which have fallen down, are again pufhed into the ab- domen, and retained there by a trufs, the pallage foon fills up, and no return of the diforder takes place. But if this is neglecSed, and the gut allowed to remain long down, the parts forming the paflage feem thereby to lofe that power of ad- hefion which naturally they are known to pofTefs ; inflances being often met with where no art is able to produce this wilhed-for obliteration of the opening. R 4 TheOf Hernia. Chap. XXIII. * 272 The hernia congenita Is ufually pro- duced in the manner I have defcribed: I believe, however, that it may happen, and I think I have feen inftances of its doing fo, from this paff^ge between the abdomen and tefticle, after having been once clofed, being again rendered per- vious, In confequence of the parts being over ftretched by thpfe violent fits of coughing, crying, and other convulfive af- fedions tq which children foon after birth are liable, iphe inteftlnal canal and other vifcera, being pufhed with violence againfl: the containing parts, thefe will moft ea- fily give way that are the leaft firm, and this will moft probably be the cafe with thofe that have been moft recently united. In this manner, it is probable that a greats proportion of thofe herniae are produced that take place in the early months of in- fancy ^ and I am inclined to think, that even in more advanced ft ages of life, the fame variety of hernia may occur from the fame caufe. It is evident, then, in what manner the hernia congenita is produced ^ we fli^ll nowSed. I. Of Hernice. 273 now enquire into the caufes of hernia in its more ufual form. I. The containing parts of the abdo- men are elaftic and compreffible; what- ever, therefore, tends by compreflion or otherwife to leflen the cavity of the ab- domen, muft occafion a proportional rifk, of fome of the contained parts being pufh- ed from their natural fituations. The abdominal mufcles and diaphragm are excited to fevere contradion, by various caufes, particularly by violent cough- ing, crying, laughing, and fevere bodily exertion; and as the contrailion of thefe mufcles muft always leflen the abdominal cavity, thefe caufes therefore are fre- quently produ<ftive of hernia. II. Falls in confequence of the derange- ment which they produce in the abdomi- nal vifcera, from the fudden and violent fliock with which they are often attended, are not unfrequently the immediate caufes of hernia. III. Perfons of a preternatural laxity of frame, are very liable to hernia. The containingOf Hernia. Chap. XXIII, •274 containing parts of the abdomen, from the want of fufficlent tone and firmnefs, are unable In fuch people to relift the weight of the different vifcera : They are therefore more particularly liable to her- nia on the application of any of thofe caufes that ufually give rife to It. IV. Sprains are apt to Induce a laxity of the Injured part 3 and have therefore a limilar Influence In Inducing hernia, with general laxity. V. It has been obferved, in thofe coun- tries where bil is much ufed as an article of food, that the people are particularly liable to hernige. In confirmation of which I may remark, that all who have attended the hofpitals In Trance, where much oil Is ufed, and where hernia is one of the moft prevailing difeafes, are afto- nilhed to find that it is. not frequent in the hofpitals of London and Edin- burgh : One foreigner in particular re- marked, that in a Angle hofpital in Paris, the operation for ftrangulated herniae du- ring his refldence there had been perform- edSedt. I. Of Hernice. 275 ed upwards of a hundred times in one year, while In fome of the largeft hofpi- tals of London it was only performed twice during the fame period, and in eight or nine months here he had only feen it once. In whatever parts the parietes of the abdomen are weakeft, thefe various caufes will moft readily operate in producing hernise ^ and accordingly we find, that defcents of the bowels ufually occur only in filch parts. The parts which from anatomy we would a priori fufpedl to be moft liable to thofe protufionSy are, the openings alrea- dy described in the external oblique muf- cles ; the arch formed by Poupart’s liga- ment for the paflage of the great blood- veflels of the thigh ^ and the umbilicus, where the fame firmnefs does not take place as in the reft of the tendinous ex- panfion of the abdominal mufcles. Thefe, as I have already obferved, are the ufual feats of hernia ^ but it fome- jimes happens, that parts of the vifcera are ^Of Hernia. Chap. XXIII. 276 are protruded between the interftices of the different mufcles of the abdomen : This, however, is not frequent. In whatever part a defcent of any por- tion of inteftines occurs, except in her- nia congenita, as all the vifcera are contained in the manner already defcrl- bed, within the peritoneum, a portion of that membrane, it is evident, muft be car- ried down along with the protruded parts; and in every fuch inftance, it is this por- tion of the peritonseum going down along with the gut that is termed the Hernial Sac. The fize and thicknefs of this fac is various in different fubjedls, and in dif- ferent ftages of the fame difeafe. On the firft appearance of ht:rnia, the fac is commonly fmall, for the protrulion feldom becomes large at once : But by re- peated defcents of the bowels, the fac is pufhed lower ^and lower, till in fome in- ftances its bulk is very confiderable in- deed ; and when in this advanced period of hernia the fac is laid open, it is found to contain either large quantities jof o- mentumOf Hernia. Sed. I. 277 mentum or Inteftine, and frequently large portions of both. As the peritonaeum has this property in common with other parts of the body, of thickening according to the degree of gradual extenfion applied to it, fo the thicknefs and firmnefs of the hernial fac is often furprifingly great, a circumftance which every operator ftiould keep in view. Although every inftance of any por- tion of inteftine protruded ftom its natu- ral lituation, is to be confidered as a de- rangement, and as fuch demands our at- tention, yet daily inftances occur, both of recent herniae, and of thofe of longer duration, from which no bad fymptoms enfue. Thus we often meet with large hernial fwellings, without the patient fuffering in any other manner, than from the inconvenience arifing from the bulk of the tumor. But in general it is other- wife ; troublefome fymptoms moft fre- quently take places and at all events, when the reduction of a hernia can be ac- complilhed,'278 Of Hernia. Chap. XXIII. compliflied it ought always to be done as quickly as poffible. All the bad fymptoms ariiing from hernia, proceed either from obftrudion to the paflage of the feces when the inte- llinal canal forms the tumor, or from a ftoppage of circulation occafioned by ftridure on the prolapfed parts; fo that the danger of the attending fymptoms. It is evident, will always in a great mea- fure depend on the nature of the protru- ded parts. Thus, when a portion of the omentum alone forms the fubftance of hernial fwel- lings, as that organ is not fo Immediately neceffary to life as many of the other vif- cera, fuch tumors accordingly are not fo frequently produdlive of danger, as when a part of the alimentary canal is either protruded by itfelf, or along with the omentum. Although this, however, is in general the cafe ^ yet it fometimes happens, that even an omental rupture is productive of danger. When the ftricture is fo com- plete^.279 of Hernias. Sea. I. plete, as to put a flop to the circulation in the protruded part, mortification with all its bad Gonfequences muft enfue. And befides, the conneaion between the omen- tum, ftomach, and other vifcera, is fuch that a hidden defcent of any confiderable portion even of omentum, Is apt to bring on vomiting, hickup, and other diftrefs- ful fymptoms : And laftly, although a rupture containing omentum only, might not of itfelf prove hazardous; yet as the pafTage through which the omentum has flipped, muft remain open as long as the protrufion continues, and as this muft render it eafy for a portion of gut like- wife to get down, this of itfelf is a fuffi- cient reafon for bellowing even upon an omental hernia our moft ferious attention. But whatever the contents of herniae may be^ whenever a ftridlure occurs up- on them, fufhcient to produce either a ftoppage of the circulation, or of the fae- cal contents of the alimentary canal when a portion of gut forms the difeafe, the fol- lowing28o OfHerni(Z. Chap.XXIIL lowing in general are the fymptoms that take place. An elaftic colourlefs fwelling is obfer- ved at the part afFecSed; a flight pain is felt, not only in the fwelling itfelf, but, if part of the alimentary canal is down, an univerfal uneafinefs is perceived over the whole abdomen, and the pain is al- ways rendered worfe by coughing, fnee- zing, or any violent exertion. The pa- tient complains of naufea; an inclination to retch 3 he can get no difcharge by ftool ^ he becomes hot and reftlefs; and the pulfe is commonly hard and quick. If the fwelling is entirely formed by a portion of gut, and if no feces are con- tained in it, it has a fmooth, equal fur- face 3 and although eafily compreilible, it inftantly returns to its former fize on the preflure being removed. But, in gut ruptures of long duration, where hard feces have colleded in the protruded bowels, confiderable inequalities very commonly take place. WhenVf Hernice^ 281 Sea. I. When again the tumor is compofed both of gut and omentum, its appearance is always unequal: It feels foft and fome- what like dough, nor is it fo elaftic as when part of the inteftinal tube only is down ^ for although like the other it is compreffible, it does not fo readily regain its former dimenhons on the preffiire be- ing taken off. It has been a received opinion^ that in ftrangulated hernia, the fymptoms fliould be lefs violent when the inteiline is ac- companied with a portion of omentum, than when the gut alone is down. Little or no difference, however, occurs from this ; for when the gut becomes obftrud- ed and inflamed, the fymptoms which en- fue, are nearly the fame whether the omentum is down or not. It will readily, however, be fuppofed, that the fymptoms defcribed above, can never take place from the prefence of omentum only: For although ftridture produced on a portion of omentum, even when no part of the inteftinal tube is down, VoL. V* S inay282 Of Hernia. Chap. XXIIL may excite much diftrefs, fuch as pain, ficknefs, vomiting, and twitching pains through the whole belly ; yet no ob ft ruc- tion of the gut ever occurs from it, and of courfe none of the fymptoms ever prove fo alarming as when any part of the gut is concerned. If the fymptoms that enfue from a ftran-' gulated gut, are not foon obviated by a re- moval of the ftri(fture, the naufea and fetch- ing terminate in frequent vomitings, firft of a bilious, and afterwards of a more fe- tid matter; the belly becomes tenfe ; the pain turns more violent; a diftrefsful convulftve hickup comes on; the fever, which at firft was of little importance, begins to increafe ; the patient Is all along exceedingly reftlefs, and continues in a. difagreeable ftate of anxiety through the whole courfe of the difeafe. Thefe fymptoms having for fometime gone on xvith violence, the patient is apt at iaft ta be fuddenly relieved from pain, when he fl^itters himfelf that eve- ryOf lieniice. Sea. I. 283 ry riik Is at an end : But inftead of this, the pulfe, from being hard and frequent, becomes languid and interrupted; cold fweats break out over the whole body, atid efpecially on the extremities ; the eyes become dull and languid; the tenfe- n^fs of the abdomen fubfides, and the tumor in part difappears; the teguments covering the parts afleaed, which be- fore were, either of a natural appearance, or were fomewhat red and inflamed, now become livid, and a windy crepitous feel is diftinguifhed all over the fweBing. If the protruded parts have not of them- felves gone entirely up, their return is now in general eafily effedled by a flight degree of prefllire, and the patient then difciiarges freely by ftool; but the cold fweats increaflng, the hickup turns more violent, and death itfelf is at laft ufliered in by its ufual fore-runners, fubfultus teh- dinum, and other convulflons. . Thefe are the ordinary fymptoms of what is termed a ftrangulated or incarce- S 2 ratedChap. XXIIL Of Hernia. 284 rated gut rupture; that is, when the parts protruded become fo afFected by ftri6lure, as to produce pain; and do not either re- turn to their natural fituaition on the pa- tient getting into a horizontal poflure, or cannot be immediately replaced by th© hands of a practitioner. In whatever fituation a ftrangulated hernia may occur, our only rational me- thod of cure mull confift in the removal of that ftriCture by which the return of the protruded parts is prevented. It is this that we are to conlider as the caufe of the miC- chief; and unlefs. it is completely remo- ved, nothing elFedlual can be done for the relief of the patient. Various methods have been proposed for the removal of thefe fhridures ; all of them, however, may be comprehended under two general heads. I. Such as tend to the redudion of the protruded parts, without the interpolition of any chirurgical operation properly fo called; and, II.Se<ft. L Of Hernics. 285 II. A divifion of the parts producing the ftridlure, fo as to admit of a replace- ment of the deranged vlfcera, conftituting what we term the Operation for the Her-' nia. The remedies to be employed for the iirfl: of thefe, are, a proper pofture of the patient, with the manual afliftance of a pra6litioner ; blood- letting ; ftimulating glyfters^ opiates3 the warm bath; and proper applications to the tumor it- felf. ' As foon as a praditioner is called, the firft circumftance requiring his attention, is, the pofture of his patient, which ought to be fuch as will moft readily fa- vour the return of the protruded parts. Thus, when the tumor is in the groin, or in the fore-part of the thigh, the pa- tient ftiould be ft) placed, as to raife his thighs and legs confiderably higher than his head and trunk; that is, he ftiould be placed nearly perpendicularly upon his head.Of Hernm. 28<S Chap. XXIIL This pofition caufes almofl: the whole quantity of inteftines to hang or fwing by the protruded parts, and it frequently proves a means of reducing them : Pla- cing the patient’s feet over the Ihoulders of another perfon, while his body is al- lowed to hang downwards, and caufing him in this pofture to be jolted about, has in fome inftances anfwered when eve- ry other means have been tried in vain. For the fame reafon that in the ingui- nal and femoral hernia this pofition is more advifeable than any other,, the ufual erect pofture of the body becomes moft proper la cafes of exomphalus or umbiii- cpj rupture; and again, a horizontal po- .fture is molt likely to prove ufeful in vAi- n*al hernia. While the patient is thus placed in the pioft fuirable pofture, the ftirgeon ftiould endeavour to aftift the return of the pro- truded parts, by gentle preilure wuth his hands aiid fingers. In the inguinal or fcrotal hernia, the preflure ftiould be made cbiiqueiy upwards towax'ds the os ileum^Of Hernia. Sedt. I. 287 fo as to correfpond as nearly as poffible with the opening in the external oblique inufcle. In the femoral hernia, the pref- fure fliouid be directly upwards 3 in the umbilical hernia, downwards and back- wards 3 and in the ventral hernia, diiedl- ly backwards. In herniae of any confiderable fize, pref- fure is mod: conveniently made, by grafp- ing the fweiling with one hand from the bott6m .ipwards, while with the fingers of the other we endeavour to puih forward the contents a.t the faperior part of the tumor. Some furgcons, in pufriing forward the inteiline, employ the fingers of both hands at the upper pvfrt of the tumor 3 but the fame purpofe is ailfwered equally well ,with the index and middle finger of one hand, while the other is employed with. advantage in preiling the under part of the tu- mor upwards fo as to co-operate in this manner in the redudfion. It is this ope- ration which by authors is termed the taxis. No defcription, however, can con- S 4 ^ vev288 Of Hernia. Chap. XXIIt * vey an adequate idea of the manner in which it fliould be performed: for, like many other q>oints in the art of forgery, a knowledge of it can only be obtained from' experience and obfervation : But this muft always be had in view, that any preffure we employ foould be of the moft gentle kind; for whatever creates much pain, proves prejudicial, and ought to be avoided, In attempting to reduce the contents of herniae, fo much force is often em^ ployed, and in fuch a rough manner, as can fcarcely fail to injure the protru- ded parts: Nor is the rilk, that enfues from this, ever compenfated by the prac- tice proving more foccefsful; for where a proper application of gentle preflure does not anfwer, we never fucceed with - much force. If moderate prefliire, ^therefore, does not foon prove effedual, other means fhould be immediately advifed. Blood- letting is here to be confidered as a prin-Sea. I. Of Hernia. 289 cipal remedy. In no difeafadoes it af- ford more relief. The quantity to be taken muft in a great meafure be de- termined by the ftrength of the patient : But if in any cafe we can with propriety venture upon abftrading large quantities of blood from weakly patients it is here y and we often perceive with furprife to what length it may be carried without hurting the fyftem. A ftate of deliquium being known to produce more complete relaxa- tion of all the mufcular parts of the body, than can be obtained in any other way, it has fometimes been advifed, in the treatment of hernia, to take off fuch large quantities of blood, and in fuch a fudden manner, as to excite fainting; and the pradice has^ in fome inftances proved ef- - fedual. As obftinate coftivenefs is commonly one of the moft alarming fymptbms of hernia, it has been the prevailing prac- tice to prefcribe not only ftimulating pur- gatives by the mouth, but injedlions of the moft acrid kind. In judging, how- ever,^9^ 0/ Hernia. Chap. XXIIL ever, fr6mexperience,I would fay, that the pradice fhouid not be adopted^ fqr when it does not prove ufeful, it very miiver- fally does mifchief, by increafmg the ficknefs at ftomach which always pre- vails here, while at the fame time it adds to the pain and tenfion of the tumor. I am clear, therefore, that remedies of this ciafs fhould not be pufhed fo far as is commonly done; and inftead of purgatives by the mouth, I would recommend injec- tions of tobacco fmoke. A variety of machines have been invented for inject- ing fmoke by the anus; but none anfwer the purpofe fo well as the inilruments re- prefented in Plates LXIII. and LXIV. They are eaiily procured; and by means of either of them, fmoke may be injected with any neceflliry force. I would not have it fuppofed, however, that I recommend tobacco-fmoke ufed hi this manner as an infallible purgative, as many have done. For the contrary is certainly the cafe: I have known it ufed in various inftances, both of hernia and , ileus^Sed. I. Of Hernias^ 291 I ileus, and not often with advantage. I only advife it as the moft effedual remedy of this clafs with which I am acquainted ^ and I know that this mode of injeding it, is the mpfl: effedual hitherto invented. It has been objefted to the inftruments I have delineated, that we cannot by means of them afeertain the quantity of fmoke we injed. But this is a nicety of little importance; as the rule in all fuch cafes mould be, to continue to throw up the fmoke, either till it has produced the wlflied for eifed; till a conliderable de- gree of licknefs is induced; or till the abdomen is found to be diftended, as in fome patients much more is required for this purpofe than is found to anfwer in others. But although this remedy does not fre-' quentiy anfwer as a purgative, it proves often ufeful as an anodyne both in hernia and ileus. And as we are often in fuch cafes deprived of the advantage of opium, by the ftomach not being able tp retain it, wc may oqcafionally in fevere degrees of292 Of Hernice. Chap. XXIII. % of pain have recoiirfe to glyfters of to-r bacco-fmoke, as one of the heft means of procuring eafe. Among the lift of purgatives employ- ed in hernise, acrid fuppofitories, compo- fed of foap, aloes, and other ftimulating materials, have been much recommend- ed 3 and when remedies of this clafs are to be ufed, thefe may be confidered as a neceflary addition to the others; but no great dependence ftiould ever be placed upon them. We are told, indeed, that in feme cafes of hernia, draftic purgatives have been of advantage j but I have fo frequently ^nown them do harm, by increafing the naufea, pain, and inflammation of the ftrangulated gut, that I am under no dif- ficulty in faying that they ought never to be ufed. Opiates prove often ufefiil, not only by relieving pain, but as tending to relax thofe parts which, by being preternatu- rally conftrldled, we confider as the prin- cipal feat of the difeafe. I have alrea- 3 dySed. I. Of Hernia. 293 dy obferved, however, that the retching which takes place in moft cafes of her* nia, prevents the exhibition of opiates by the mouthy but in fuch inftances they may be applied with advantage in the form of injection, and their ufe may be alternated with injedions of tobacco- fmoke, as I have already pointed out. Warm bathing is another remedy from which much advantage has been derived in the^treatment of hernige. Not the lo- cal application of heat, however, as is conveyed in the form of poultices and fomentations, but the univerfal warm bath, in which the whole body is im- merfed, and which we know to be pof- fefled of very relaxing powets. The general warm bath, by tending to relax the conftridion on the protruded inteftines, proves frequently ufeful in promoting their replacement 3 but the lo- cal application of heat to the fwelled parts, although commonly advifed, is very apt to do harm. On the conftrided ten- don it can^ have no influence, for it lies foOf Hernia. Chap.XXIIL 294 fo deep as to be little affeded by reme- dies of this kind. And as the heat con- veyed in this manner mufl: tend to rarefy the contents of the tumors, and mull thus increafe the bulk, inftead of anfwering any good purpofe, on this principle it is evident they mull do harm ^ and accord- ingly, whoever will attentively obferve their effects, will find that they do fo. When the external teguments are much inflamed and painful, by their emollient properties, they may afford relief^ but the eafe thus obtained proves only mo- mentary, as the pain commonly foon be- comes more fevere than it was before. Whoever attentively confiders the na- ture of hernia, and the means that prove moft effedlual in the cure, muft be of opinion, that all the bad fymp- toms that appear in it, arife from flric- ture produced upon the protruded parts. By fome, however, a different opini- on has been held forth, and all thefe fymptoms have been imputed to fpafin or infjammation in the protruded parts themfelves.Sea. I. 295 0/ Hernice. themfelves, independent of ftriaure or any other afFeaion of the parts through which they have paffed. That inflammation of the prolapfed bowels, in whatever way it may be in- duced, will in general terminate in all the fymptoms of ftrangulated hernia, no perfon will doubt 3 but that flridure in the tendons through which the bowels have paffed, is the moft frequent caufe of this inflammation is alfo obvious. Ad- mitting, however, that the caufe of all the bad fymptoms in hernia fhould ori- ginate in the parts that have been pro- truded, and that they are not induced by the opening through which they have pafled being leffened by flridure, ftill the application of heat to this kind of tumor mufl be improper, as the rarefacfion which it excites, by giving an increafed bulk, mufl neccffarily increafe the dan- ger. Vv^hile we might a priori be warrant- ed to argue in this manner, I can from pradice and experience affert, that we ,3 deriveof Hernia:. Chap. XXIII. 296 derive more advantage from the exter- nal application of cold than I have ever perceived from any other remedy. In various inftances I have applied ice and fnow with much advantage, and I never faw them do harm But, in general, the remedies upon which I depend are, cold faturnlne folutions, and cloths kept conftantly moifl: with a mixture of cold water, vinegar and brandy. By thefe remedies alone we fometimes fucceed, without farther afliftance: But it frequently happens, notwithftanding eve- ry attempt, that the protruded parts can- not be returned \ the fymptoms, inftead of abating, become more violent; and the event of the difeafe becomes of courfe more doubtful. In this fituatlon, we Ihould again en- deavour to return the contents of the tu- mor, by a proper application of prefliire with ♦ By. fome writers, this pra£Hce has been confidered as hazardous; but I find it recommended by others to whom much credft is due, particularly by the late Dr Monro. See his works, 4to edition, p. 559.297 of Hernia. Sea-1. with the hand, affifted with due attention to the pofture of the patient ^ but where this does not foon prove fuccefsful, the divifion of the parts by which the ftric- ture is produced fhould be advifed as our only refource. This, it may be remarked, is one of the mofl: important points that a furgeon has ever to decide upon : I mean the exaa period at which the treatment of hernia, by ■means fuch as I have pointed out, fhould be laid afide, and the operation be put in pradice. If a furgeon, without having given a full t;rial to all the ufual reme- dies, fhould early proceed to the opera- tion, and if unfortunately it fhould not fucceed, he would probably be blamed by the friends of the patient as the princi- pal caufe of his death; and again, even , allowing a recovery to be obtained by the operation, he is apt to he blamed, not only by his brethren of the profeffion, but by the patient himfelf, for having made him fuffer an unnecefTary degree of pain. VoL. V. T In298 Of Hernia. Chap. XXIIL In fuch circumftances a pradHtioner is very apt to feel himfelf embarrafled. But we ought here, as in every critical fituation, to be entirely direded by experience; and if this rule was adhered to, inftead of the ufual delays in almoft every inftance of ftrangulated hernia, we would advife the operation at a more early period of the difeafe. The operation for the hernia is no doubt attended with fome hazard; but the danger attending it has by many been more magnified than it ought to be; for fo far as I can judge from experience, the rifk attending the difeafe when the operation is long delayed, is infinitely greater than from the operation confider- ed abftradedly. Were we able from the fymptoms to determine the exad period at which the operation Ihould be performed, no kind of difficulty would occur from it; but this is fo far from being the cafe, that the moft experienced furgeons cannot de- cide upon ite In fome inftances, hernia 3 withSea. I. 299 of Hernia, with every fymptom of ftrangulation, continues for fix, eight, or ten days ^ and after all, the protruded parts are repla- ced, and the patient does well^ and in many fimilar cafes when the operation has afterwards been found necelTary, al- though the feverefi: fymptoms may have fubfiiled for feveral days, yet on laying the parts open, no appearances either of inflammation or gangrene have been dif- covered. With others, again, the fame fet of fymptoms, with perhaps no more fwelling or tenfion in the parts aifeded, prove quickly fatal. In fomc of thefe, the ra- pid progrefs of the difeafe is often afl;o- nifliing; the fpace of forty-eight hours hardly intervening, from the firfl: attack till the death of the patient: I have even known the intefliries become perfectly gangrenous in the courfe of one day from the time of their firfl: expulfion. Every praditioner knows, that this is the ftate of the queftion ^ and if fo, it mufl: at once be obvious, that long delays, T 2 muflOf Heniic^. 300 Chap. XXIII. muft in fuch critical circumftances be al- ways haz,ardous3 the danger from the o'peration itfelf, is trifling when com- pared with the ri& accruing from delays, it ought, I think, to be an eflablifned maxim, to proceed in every inftance to the operation, if in the fpace of a Ihort time blood-letting and the other reme- dies pointed out, do not prove effedual. Two or three hours at fartheft, even when practitioners are early called in, is perhaps the greateft length of time that fhould be confumed in trials of this kind. In the treatment of herniae, it has been remarked, that the French furgeons prove ufually more fuccefsful than German or Britifh practitioners ^ and fo far as I know, no reafon can be afligned for the difference, but that the French proceed more early to the operation than the fur- geons of almoft any other nation. They will thereby, no doubt, perform it on fome patients who might have recovered by more gentle means; but any inconve- nience arifing from this to a few, is ful-:oi Of Hernias. Sea. I. T 3 , But ]y compenfated by the number of lives that muft be faved by having recourfe to it in due time, and which otherwife, might probably have been loft. Although for obvious reafons the rc- duaion of the contents of herniae fliould in every inftanee be attempted, yet cafes often occur in which it cannot be accom- plifhed. When the reduaion has once been com- pleted, we have it in our power to prevent the difeafe from returning, by the conftant application of a proper trufs to the o- pening from whence the parts were pro- truded. But It often happens from this being negleaed,. that ruptures which might at firft have been eafily cured, come at laft by repeated defeents, and by the great quantity of parts that fall down, to form rumors of fuch magnitude, in proportion to the opening through which they were protruded, that no art can replace them by the more fimple means of reduaion.302 Chap. XXIII. Of Hernia, But befides this, fuch adhefions fre- quently take place, between the vifcera forming; the fwelling and the furrounding parts, as render it impoflible to return them by any other means than the ope- ration. By this, indeed, perhaps every cafe of hernia may be reduced 3 but how- ever necelTary this operation may be when a patient is in danger, as it is always at- tended with fome hazard, it fliould feldom be advifed where fymptoms of ftrangula- tion do not adtually exift. In that indolent or chronic ftate of hernia we have juft been defcribing^ al- though by interefted and ignorant pradH- tioners the operation has been often pro- pofed as a radical cure, yet furgeons of charadler would in fuch circumftances feldom advife it: They would reft fatisfied with preventing any accumulation of fe- ces in the inteftines, by prefcribing a pro^ per diet and the occafional ufe of gentle laxatives; and with obviating by a fu- fpenfory bandage any inconvenience that mightSed. I. Of Hernia^ 303 might arife from the weight of the tu- mor. By thefe means alone, even the largeft hernise are often made eafy and fupport- able for a great length of time; the cir- culation of the parts contained in the fwelling goes freely on, as well as the periftaltic motion of fuch parts of the ali- mentary canal as are protruded ; and hence it is that we have many inftances of lar:ge portions of the gut falling down even to the bottom of the fcrotum, and continuing there for a great number of years without giving any interruption to the ufual difcharge by ftool. In this ftate of the difeafe, therefore, the operation can feldom be admiflible. But although people with hernia in this fituation frequently enjoy good health, and fometimes feel little inconvenience from the fwelling, yet it muft not be fup- pofed that their fituation is free of dan- ger : On the contrary, we often obferve, that the difeafe, after fubfifling in this ilate for a great length of time, will in- T 4 flameOf Herniw. Chap. XXIIL 304 flame and become painful at laft, fo as to excite every bad fymptom commonly in- duced by real flrangulation of a gut. As long, too, as the fwelling continues, as the opening* through which tho parts have been protruded is thereby pre- vented from clofing, fo the patient ftill remains liable to defcents of other por- tions of Inteftine which have not former- ly been down, and by which the mofl; fa- tal fymptom.s may be induced. But what I here wllh to eftablilh is, that till once thefe bad fymptoms adlually occur, ei- ther from an affedtion of that part of the gut which has been long down, or of a portion more recently protruded, the ope- ration for the hernia ought feldom to be advifed. All that can here be done with propriety is, to fit the patients with pro- per fufpenfory bandages ^ to warn them of the rifle they will incur from laying them afide 5 and to caution them againft violent exercife, particularly leaping, and every hidden exertion. Althoughof Hernia. Sea. I. 3^5 Although with praaitioners of repu- tation this circumftance cannot require much difcuffion, yet the public at large are much interefted in it. The former know, that the operation fhouid be feldom performed in any cafe of hernia where violent fymptoms do not aaually exift; but the latter, not being able to judge of the various circumftances to be taken in- to confideration, are too frequently im- pofed upon by that numerous fet of Itine- rants with which every country abounds. By thefe a variety of operations are put in praaice for performing what they call a* radical cure of ruptures; by which they mean to fay, a prevention of future de- fcents. But as no remedy with which we are acquainted, a well-adapted trufs only ex- cepted, can be depended on for this pur- pofe^ and as all the other means that have been advifed for it, are not only painful, but highly dangerous, the magi- ftracy of every community ought to in- terfere in fupprefling them. The3o6 Of Hernia. Chap. XXIII. The objed: in view by all thefe at- tempts, is, either to deftroy the hernial fac entirely, or to procure an accretion of its fides ; which, by thofe who are ig- norant of the anatomy of the parts con- cerned, has been confidered as fufEcient to prevent any return of the difeafe. In order to effed a total deftrudion of the fac, our forefathers employed not on- ly the knife, but the potential and even the adual cauteries f and with a view to produce a firm union of its fides, which was confidered as equally effedual, it was afterwards propofed by praditioners of more tender feelings, to employ the needle and ligature, pr what was termed the Royal Stitch : and for the fame pur- pofe was invented the famous pun£lum au^ reum^ which was performed in the fol- lowing manner. After reducing the in- teflines into the abdomep, the fac was laid bare with a fcalpel; and a piece of gold wire being pafled round the upper end of it, the wire being likewife made to include the fpermatic cord, it was then orderedOf Hernia. Sea. I. 307 ordered to be twifted with a pair of for- ceps to fuch a degree of tightnefs as to prevent the defcent of the gut, but not to interrupt the circulation in the fpermatic cord But none of thefe methods being found to anfwer, for even the adual cautery^ although carried to the depth of the bone itfelf, does not fecure the patient againft a return of the difeafe, our modern pre- tenders have therefore ventured to im- prove upon the ignorance of ancient prac- titioners, and adtually go the length of de- ftroying not only the hernial fac, but the teftis alfo : without any knowledge of the anatomy of the parts, and having no re- putation to be injured by any confequen- ces that may enfue, they proceed with- out fear; and, by promifing all that pa- tients can hope for, they are fure to be well ♦ For a more particular account of thefe various modes of pradice in the different kinds of hernia as employed in former times, fee the writings of Albucafis, Pauliis ^gineta, Fab. ab Aquapendente, Hildanus, and Am- ■brofe Parey,Of Her'uia. Chap. XXIII. 3o8 well received. In confeqiience of this, in every large town, many operations are performed by them; numbers are accord- ingly mutilated, and many thereby even lofe their lives. Their method of ope- rating is Ihortly this : They lay bare the hernial fac, and having reduced the pro ■ Japfed parts, a ftrong ligature is paffed rodnd both the^ fac and fpermatic cord, and drawn fo tight as to deftroy, not on- ly the paffage along the fac,. but the cord itfelf, and of courfe the tefticle. In fome inftances nothing farther happens; but in others, fuch a degree of inflammation is induced, as to terminate in the death of the patient. If any of thefe means, however, were to produce the wiflied for effed, the pre- vention of future defeents, the rilk would in fome ijieafure be compenfated by the advantage: But the fad is much other- wife; for unlefs a trufs is kept conftantly applied, the patient continues liable to a return of the difeafe in nearly the fame degree as if no operation had been per- formed.Sea. I. Of Hernice. 309 formed. Even the operation for the her- nia itielf, does not, as has been fuppofed, fortify the parts againft a return of the difeafe, the continued ufe of a trufs be- ing nearly as neceffary after that opera- tion as if it had not been performed. In a few cafes, the opening through which the parts have been protruded may be fo completely clofed by the inflamma- tion induced by the operation, that no farther defcents would take place; but as I have known different inftances of its failure, in which, from negledting to wear a trufs, the difeafe returned with the fame fymptoms of ftrangulation as be- fore, I can without helitation fay that the principle fhould not be adopted. In Plate LXV. trulTes are reprefented for different varieties of hernia. They are intended for the'more ufual forms of the difeafe, the inguinal, crural, and um- bilical rupture. When others are want- ed for particular parts, tadefmen in this line of bufinefs fhould be applied to, with diredions to fit the inflruments with the niceft510 Of Hernia. Chap. XXIII. iiiceft exadnefs to the parts for which they are Intended. Indeed, the advan- tages to be obtained from a trufs, depend fo much upon the exadnefs with which it Is fitted, that nothing but the niceft at- tention can prevent it from doing more harm than good. The foie purpofe of a trufs is to prevent the parts newly repla- ced from falling down. If therefore the pad or bolfter of the bandage does not bear properly againft the opening upon which it is placed, a portion of gut may flip out, and be materially injured by the prefRire of the pad. I have met with dif- ferent inftances of this, where bandages by not being exadly fitted did much mif- chief 3 and every praditioner^ mufl: have obferved them: it is therefore a matter of the firfl: importance, that tradefinen be made to pay the moft exad attention to this circumftance. All rupture-ban- dages fhould be of the fteel fpriiig kind ^ for thofe formed of linen and other foft materials, can never be kept properly ap- plied. Even in infancy the fteel trufs maySe&.I. Of Hernm. 311 may be made fo light and eafy as to be ufed with fafety. Having premlfed thefe general obfer- vations, which relate equally to every variety of hernia, I fhall now proceed to confider more particularly the different forms of the difeafe.Of Hernia. Chap. XXIII. 312 SECTION II. Of the Bubonocele. CONJOINED with the general fymp- toms of hernia enumerated in the lafl; fedion, the particular appearances of the bubonocele, or inguinal hernia, are, a foft fomewhat elaftic fwelling, begin- ning In the groin, and defcending by de- grees into the fcrotum in men, and labia pudendi in women. When a portion of gut forms the difeafe, the tumor is com- monly tenfe in proportion to the degree of ftridlure in the opening of the tendon; and when the parts inflame, handling or prefliire always gives pain. When the hernia contains omentum only, the fwelling Is both more foft, com- preflible, and more unequal, than when gut alone is down; the fcrotum becomes moreII. Of Hernice* 313 more oblong than in anint^ftlnal hernia^ and when the quantity of omentum is large, it is alfo much more weighty than a gut rupture of the fame lize : But in a great proportion of cafes, the tumor is compofed both of gut and omentum: In this cafe the diftinguifhing fymptoras of each can never be fo clearly marked* Various fymptbms indeed are enumerated by authors for diftinguiihing the contents of herniae 3 but whenever the cafe is com- plicated, every candid practitioner will admit, that no certainty can be obtained of this till the 'tumor is laid open. As thefe parts are liable to other tu-> mors with which the inguinal and fcro- tal hernia may be confounded, pradition- ers fliould be as much as poffible ac- quainted with the marks of diftindion. Thefe complaints are, glandular or other fwellings in the groin, whether from the Venereal difeafe or any other caufe ; that fwelling of the teftis termed Hernia Hu- moralise and the different varieties of hy- drocele. VOL. V. u TheOf Hernia. Chap, XXni; 3H The venereal bubo and other fwellings in the groin, are dlftingulflied from her- nia, not only by their wanting all the ge- neral fymptoms of hernia,^but by that in- compreflible hardnefs with which glandu- lar fwellings are at firft attended, and by the fludluation of matter which in their fuppurated flate is always obfervable. In the hernia humoralis, the hardened and enlarged ftate of the tefticle ; its be- ing exquifitely painful to the touch > re- markably heavy in proportion to its bulk^. and the fpermatic procefs being common- ly free from fwelling y may be confider- ed as certain marks of diftindion. In the hernia humoralis, too, the inteflines are free and unobftruded, and the other general fymptoms of hernia are wanting^ In the hydrocele of the tunica vagina- lis teftis, the tumor in general is more equal than in hernia : In the former, the fwelling begins in the under part of the fcrotum, and proceeds upwards^ whereas the reverfe occurs in hernia. In hydro- cele the fpermatic cord is in moft in- , ftancesSe6l. II. of fiances diflindly felt, whereas in hernia where the tumor defcends to the fcrotum, the fpermatic cord cannot in any part of its courfe be diftinguiflied. In a hydro- cele, the fluctuation of a fluid is diftin- guifliable ; in hernia it is not. From the anafarcous fwelling of the fcrotum, or hydrocele of the dartos as it is termed, hernia is eafily diftinguifh- ed; and indeed the means of diftinClion are fo obvious, that they need not be enumerated ; but there is another variety of hydrocele, the hydrocele of the fper- matic cord, which in fome inftances it is difficult to diftinguifli from hernia, and which therefore requires particular attention. Where the water is colleCled in one or more cells of the fpermatic procefs, and begins in the under part of the cord, and proceeds upwards, this alone ferves a fuf- ficient means of diftinCtioil between it and hernia, in which the fwelling rnufl always proceed from above downwards | but it fometimes happens, that the water U 2 beginsOf Hermes. Chap. XXIII. 3i6 begins to colledl even within the opening in the abdominal mufcle, and by degrees falls downwards. In this cafe we cannot de- termine from the ftate of the tumor alone, whether it is the one difeafe or the other. The general fymptoms of hernia, fuch as pain and tenfipn of the abdomen, vomit- ing, and obftrudled inteftines, muft be kept in view: Not being connedled with hydrocele, they will always ferve to af- certain the nature of the cafe which in r.heir abfence might long remain doubtful. In fome cafes, however, thefe and every other means of diftindion are wanting ^ but even in fuch circumftances a. pradi- tloner of experience will never incur the rilk either of hurting his patient, or his own reputation, which the miftaking a Hernia for a Hydrocele, and treating it * as fuch, muft always do, and which, to the difgrace of Surgery, has in fome in-- fiances been done. In all fuch cafes of doubt, as well as in every tumor of the tefticle where the moft perfed certainty is not obtained, and in which *317 Se£t. II. Of Hernias. which an operation becomes necefTary, the furgeon fhould proceed as he would do in hernia : By doing fo, every rilk will he avoided : On the tumor being laid open, the true nature of the difeafe wdll become evident, and the practitioner will be at li- berty to apply the means belt liiited for the cure. Whereas in proceeding different- ly^ as in fome cafes has been done, and treating as a hydrocele what afterwards proves to be hernia, he not only incurs the rifk of injuring his own reputation but of defxroying his patient. In the treatment of the Bubonocele, when the means pointed out in the lafl: feCHon as applicable to every Bate of hernia do not fucceed, we are then under the neceffity of proceeding to the opera- tion 3 and the method of doing it is this: A table of a convenient height being fixed in a proper light, the patient muft be placed upon it with his head and body almoft horizontal, whilft his buttocks are raifed with pillows placed beneath them. The legs hanging over the edge of the U 3 tabl(?Of Hernicz. Chap. XXIII. 3i8 table mufl be feparated fo as to admit the operator between them; and fliould in this fituation be firmly fecured by an af- iiftant on each fide, who fhould take care at the fame time to keep the thighs fo far ralfed as to relax the abdominal mufcles. That we may obtain as much empty fpace as poflible for the return of the pro- truded parts, the patient fhould be advifed to empty his bladder; and the parts having been previoufly fhaved, an incifion muft now be made with a common- round- edged fcalpel through the fkin and part of the cellular fubflance, beginning an inch above the fuperior end o*f the tur mor, and proceeding down to the mbft de- pending part of the fcrotmn. Even where ,the tumor does not reach to the bottom ^of the fcrotum, the parts fliould be laid open in this manner. By a free external incifion, we are enabled to finifli the ope- ration with more eafe than when the firfl opening is fmall: it does not give much more pain; and being continued to the bottom of the fcrotum, the matter in the upperOf Hernia. Se£t. II. 3^9 upper part of the fore is prevented from coliefling below, which otherwife it is ready to do. The operator mufl now proceed to di- vide the reft of the cellular fubftance covering the fac ; and even this lliould be done with caution: For although in u great proportion of cafes^, the fperma- tic veffels lie behind the protruded parts, yet occafionally they are found’ on the anterior part of the tumor ^ fo that in or- der to avoid the rifk of wounding them, as foon.as the Ikin is divided the remain- der of the operation fhould be condufled with much attention, care being taken to avoid every large blood-veflel that makes its appearance. This circumftance of the prolapfed parts getting down behind the fpermatic veffels, has never, fo far as I know, been mentioned by authors: It muftthere- fore be a rare occurrence. As I met with it, however, in oqe cafe, where the fafl was obvious, the poffibility of its happening I have no reafon to doubt. If U 4 weOf Hernia. Chap. XXIII. 320 we attend only to the ufual conformation of thefe parts, the hernial fac, we would fay, ought never to get behind the fper- matic cord : But we know well, that in r^o part of the human body is nature more apt to defert her ordinary courfe, than in fome circumftances relating to the tefles and their blood-veflels. We have already obferved, that till near the period of delivery, the tefticles continue in the abdomen; and about this time, that they fall down in a gradual manner to the fcro- tum. Many inftances, however, occur, of both teftes remaining in the abdomen through life; while fometimes one re- mains, and the other falls into the fcro- tum. In others, one or both fall into the groin, and never proceed farther 3 a circumftance which young practitioners mould be aware of, as inftances have oc- curred of a tefticle refting in the groin being miftaken for a hernia, and of much pain being excited by different attempts made for reducing them. Now, if we ently meet with fuch varieties as frecjOf Herni£;e. 32 c Sea. II. this in the mechanifin of thefe parts, why may not nature fometimes produce fuch a conformation as on a hernial fac falling into the fcrotum, may bring it be- hind both the fpermatic cord and the tefti- cle ? And as I have fhewn that it has hap- pened, and as it may therefore occur a- gain, I confider it as a farther argument, for the propriety of dividing the parts in the cautious manner I have mentioned It is ufual, in making the firfl incifion, to pinch up the teguments, and then to divide them with a fcalpel; but no fur- geon of fteadinefs and dexterity will ever proceed in this manner. This incifion of the fkin is done with much more neatnefs, and with equal fafety, by the operator grafping the tumor with his left-hand, in fuch a manner as to render the teguments on * Since this went to the prefs, I find that an inftance is recorded by Le Dran, in his "^Ireatije on Ruptures, of the fpormatic veflels having been found on the anterior part of a bubonocele,—This fituation, therefore, of thefe veflels, is perhaps more frequent than is commonly ima-Of Hernia. Chap. XXIII. 322 on the anterior part of it tenfe, while, with the fcalpel in his right-hand, he di- vides the Ikin from one end to the other. The fac being laid bare, an opening muft be made in it, fo as to bring its con- tents into view; and the moft fafe place for this- is, not about the middle of the tumor, as is commonly diredled, but as near to the under point of it as poflible : It is here done with the fame eafe as in any other part; and befides, the gut is feldom found juft at the bottom of the fac, which is commonly occupied with a quan- tity of bloody ferum ; fo that the riik of wounding it in this fituation, is lefs than in any other part of the fwelling. In ma- king this perforation of the fac, confifts the greateft nicety in the operation, the utmoft caution being ne'cellary to avoid the parts that are contained in it. Good eyes and a fteady hand are in no opera- tion more requifite than in this: With thefe, any praditioner acquainted with the anatomy of the parts, will do the ope- ration323 Of Hernia* Sea. II. ration properly, and without them the befl: anatomifl: muft go wrong. With the fame fcalpel that divided the lldn«and cellular fubftance, the operator muft proceed flowly, dividing one fibre of the fac after another, till it is entire- ly cut through. This may be always dlf- covered by means of the blunt end of a pro^)e: If it pafles in eafily, we may con- clude with certainty that the fac is divi- ded ^ and if it does not, the incifion muft be continued in the fame gradual manner fomewhat deeper, when the fame trial with the probe ipuft be repeated. In profecuting this divifion of the fac, we derive much advantage from the ufe bf a fmall Iharp-pointed diredory, open at the extremity, as is reprefented in Plate LXV. fig. 6. By puftiing the end of it below fome of the fibres of the fac, they are eafily feparated from the parts beneath, and may thus be divided with fafety 3 and in the fame manner the reft324 Of Hernia. Chap. XXIII. reft of the fac muft be divided, till this part of the operation is completed In almoft every cafe of hernia, where the tumor is confined to the groin, and even where the fwelling extends to the forotuin, if the parts are recently protru- ded, the hernial fac is thin, and therefore eafily cut through; but it is necelTary for the information of young praditioners, to obferve, that when the difeafe is of long duration, * In the 4th Volume of Mertioirs of the Paris Aca- demy of Surgery, there is a paper on Hernise, by Mon- iieur Louis. But although it contains many ufeful obfer- vations, Mr Louis in one point 1 think has gone far wrong, in ridiculing that degree of caution Ihown by feme fur- geons, in dividing the hernial fac ; The divifion of the fac, he fays, is attended with fo little difficulty, that he does not conlider it as different in, that refpedt from the firft external inciiion of the lldn. His words are : “ Ja- “ mais le fac ne m’a donne ni plus de peine, ni plus d’ embarras que la peau ; on divife, pour ainfi dire, celle- ci du premier traits et le fac du fecond” In the hands of a very expert operator, the fcalpel, even iu this man- ner, may be fo managed as to do no harm ; but, in com- mon pra£lice, much mifchief would be done by proceed- ing as Mr Louis has dire61ed. It might tend to ffiow the dexterity of an operator, but this would always be at the hazard of the patient.Se£l. II. Of Hernia. 325 duration, the fac frequently becomes fo thick, as to require much more diffedion than beginners commonly exped : By go- ing on, however, with the caution I have direded, every rifk of wounding any part of importance may be avoided. As foon as an opening is made through the fac, a circumftance of which we be- come certain, as I remarked above, by a probe palling ealily in. It ought then to be farther enlarged, by cutting upon the diredor, till it is of fuch a lize as to ad- mit the fore-finger of the operator. The fore-finger of the left hand mult be now introduced, andufed as a diredor for entering the narrow blunt-pointed bi- ftoury, reprefented in Plate LXIV. fig. 3. with which the hernial fac mull be divided along its whole length up to the opening in the external oblique mufcle. With the finger ufed as a diredor for the blltoury, this part of the operation is performed with fafety ^ and the billoury here deli- neated, renders all the inllruments former- ly employed not only for this part of the operation,326 Of Hernia. Chap. XXIIL operation, but for the fubfequent divifion of the tendon, quite unneceflary. On laying the fac open at the bottom, a quantity of coloured fluid always rufhes out, and the protruded parts come fully in view : If a portion of gut is down^ and not much entangled with omentum, by being now fet at liberty, it rufhes out In- ftantly on the fac being opened ^ thereby giving the appearance of having been col- ledted in a larger quantity than the fize of the tumor gave reafon to expedl. The portion of gut found in hernial fwellings is various, no part of the in- teftinal canal being entirely exempted from falling down. Hitherto the ileum has been commonly fuppofed to form the fubftance of a great proportion of her- niae, but later and more accurate obfer- vation renders it probable that the cae- cum, appendix vermiformis, and part of the colon, are perhaps as frequently con- tained in herniae as any other portion of the gut. TheOf Herni(Z, Sea. II. 327 The fac being laid fully open, the parts contained in it Ihould be examined with the niceft attention^, in order to difcover whether they are all found or not \ and if upon attentive infpeaion they appear to be found, that is, if they are not evi- dently in a ftate of gangrene, even although they feem to be inflamed, they ftiould be immediately returned into the abdomen. Whether inteftine or omentum, or a portion of each, have been contained in the fwelling, thofe parts of them which have come lafl: down Ihould be firfl: pufli- ed back ; the difficulty and trouble of re- turning them being thereby much lelTen- cd : And in making the redudtion, it both anfwers the purpofe better, and is lefs likely to do mifchief, to apply the fingers to that part of the inteftine connected with the mefente'ry than to the convex part of the gut. While the reduction is going on, the .patient’s thighs and loins ihould be ftill more elevated than they were during the preceding fteps of the operation > for this pofture of thefe parts tendsOf Hernia. Chap. XXIII. 328 tends much to facilitate the return of the protruded inteftines to the abdomen. When the difeafe is recent, and the' parts have not been frequently down, it fometimes happens, that by pulling out a little more of the gut than was formerly down, any obflrudion that occurred to the redu6tIon is thereby removed 3 and if the protruded parts are not of great mag=- nltude, they may thus be fometimes re- duced, without the opening being enlar- ged by which they palled from the abdo- men : But when this cannot be done with eafe, it fhould never be attempted ^ more danger being to be dreaded from force applied to the gut, than can ever occur from finifhing the operation by enlarging the opening in the tendon of the external oblique mufcle. As the tendon of this mufcle runs in an oblique direction from above downwards, and as the opening through which the contents of a hernia protrude, is formed by a reparation of the tendinous fibres of this mufcle from each other, the direc- tionOf Hernia. Sea. IL 32.9 tion of this opening is of courfe the fame with that of the tendon ^ that is, it runs fomewhat obliquely from the fpine of the ileum to the os pubis; In enlarging this p'affage, then, for the redudlion of the parts that have palled through it, as a tranfverfe fedion of the tendon is not neceflary, the knife Ihould be carried obliquely upwards, fo as mere- ly to continue the natural feparation of the tendinous fibres. The finger was recommended as the beft diredor for the knife in opening the fac, and in dividing die tendon it proves equally ufeful. By infinuating the finger into the aperture of the tendon immediate- ly above the protruded parts, the point of the blunt biftoiiry, Plate LXIV. fig. 3. is eafily introduced upon it; and in this’ manner, by keeping the end of the finger a little before the biftoury, the opening may be enlarged to any ncccflary extent without rlfk of wotmdlng the contiguous parts. In general, a very fmall enlargement of' the natural opening in the tendon proves Vof.i V. X fufficlent330 Chap. XXIIL Of Hernios. /ufficlent for the reduction of the protru- .ded parts: But the fize of the opening- fiiould be fully fufficient for the objedl in view^ for it is better to make it fome- what too large, than to run any rific of hurting the parts by forcing them through a fmall aperture. If on the introdudlion of the finger any adhefions of the gut to the contiguous parts are difcovered, the incifion in the ten- don fhould be made larger than might otherwife be neceflary, that the finger may be fo freely admitted, as to deftroy fuch adhefions as it can reach; for if not removed, the operation will very probab- ly fail. . Befides thefe internal adhefions, it fome- times happens, by long confinement in the fcrotum^ prefilire; and perhaps by other caufes; that llrong adhefions are formed among the parts contained in the fac; and before reducing them, it is always neceflary, to attempt tp feparate them. When thefe adhefions occur, as they, fometimes do, betweep ,diiTerent parts of ' theSe6t. li^ Of Hernia. 331 the protruded gut, they fliould be fepa- rated with much caution : But connec- tions of this nature between one por- tion of the inteftinal canal and another, are feldom firm, and are commonly eafi- ly feparated ^ and when formed by means of long filaments, which is fometimes the cafe, the eafieft method of removing them is to cut them, either with fciffars or a biftoury : But when one part of a gut ad- heres fo firmly to another as not to be fe- parated but with difficulty, it is much better to return the whole even in this Bate to the abdomen, than to run the rifk of hurting it by employing much force. When, again, adhefions form between the gut and the hernial fac, or between the gut and omentum, if the filaments by which they are produced cannot be other- wife removed, as there is. no great ha- zard in wounding the omentum, and flill lefs in hurting the fac, a fmall portion of thefe may be dilTedled off, and returned w^ith the gut to the abdomen ^ and m like manner^ when the omentum adheres fo X 2 ' ' firmly332 - Of Hernia. Chap. XXIIL firmly to the fac as not to be feparated in any other manner, no danger can accrue from our encroaching upon the fac. I The rifk and trouble attending this pradtice is trifling, when compared witK the inconveniencies that would enfue from leaving either the omentum or gut adhe- ring externally to the hernial fac, as is advifed by fome when thefe adhefions cannot be eafily divided. The leafl: por- tion of gut being left down, would run much rifk of being injured by expofure at the different dreflings; and by leaving part of the omentum to protrude through^ the opening from the abdomen, one ad- vantage to be expedled from the operation would be loft, viz. the prevention in fu- ture of that rifk to which a patient with a portion of protruded omentum muft be always liable,^ of a piece of gut flipping down, and perhaps of becoming ftrangu- iated. After returning the contents of the fac into the abdomen, it has been prnpofed by fome, to pafs a ligature round the up- per333 Of Hernics. Sea. II. per part of the fac juft at its neck, with a view, as we are told, of procuring a re- union of its ftdes, in order that it may ferve as a means of preventing future de- feents of the bowels. But as a ligature cannot be applied without rifk of injuring, or even of de- ftroylng the fpermatic veflels, with which the pofterior part of the fac Is immediate- ly connected, the pradice from this con- fideration alone fliould be laid afide; but in reality it does not appear to be necefla- ry, as this very union of the fides of the fac is always produced merely by that degree of inflammation which fucceeds to the operation. Hitherto I have advifed the contents of hernise to be immediately reduced, up- on the fuppolitlon that they have been only difplaced ^ that they have been ad- hering to each other or to the neighbour- ing parts; or perhaps that they have been more or lefs in a ftate of inflammation. But when it appears that this inflamma- tion has already ended in gangrene, as , X 3 the334 Of HernU. Chap. XXIIL the return of mortified parts, whether omentum or inteftine, might be attended with hazard, more caution becomes necef- fary. When the omentum is found in a ftate of mortification, as a portion of it may be removed without much rifk, it has been the common pradlice to cut away the. difeafed parts; and in order to obviate any inconvenience from the hemorrha- gy that might enfue, we are advifed to make a ligature on the found parts pre- vious to the removal of thofe that are mortified; while, by leaving the ends of the ligature hanging out of the wound, the furgeon has it in his power to remove it whenever it may be proper. Ligatures on- the omentum, however, having frequently induced bad fymptoms, fuch as naufea, vomiting,. cough, fever, pains in the belly, and inability to fit ereft; and as we now from' experience know, that no hemorrhagy of impor- tance ever occurs from a divifion of this inembrane, fuch parts as have become gangrenous&<a. II. Of Hernia. 335 gangrenous may tlierefore be freely cut off, and the remaining found parts be in- troduced into the abdomen, without any ligature being put upon them. Of this I am convinced from experience, and it is alfo the opinion of others*: But if it fhould ever happen, on cutting off part of the omentum, that a veffel of any lize is divided, a ligature may with fafety be pafled upon it, without including any part of the membrane ; and the ends of it be- ing left to hang, out at the wound, it may afterwards be pulled away at pleafure. Another circumftance fometimes, oc- curs, that renders the removal of part of the omentum necelTary : When a rupture has been of long duration, and a portion of omentum has been long down, from the preiTure made by the ufual fafpenfdry X 4 bandage, * A very accurate paper upon this fiibje*!T: may be feen in the 3d Vol. of Memoires de 1’Academic Royali^j ^ de Chirurgie of Paris, by Moniieur Pipelet, in which Several cafes are related of the bad effeds produced by ligatures on the omentum. Mr Pott is alfo of this opinion.-—Vide Treatife on Ryptures.336 Of Hernia. Chap, XXIIL bandage^ it frequently happens that the protruded parts become thickened, hard, and colledted into lumps. When thefe lumps are not large, they need not be re- moved, as when fmall they may be re- turned into the abdomen without hazard, but whenever it appears, that by their bulk and hardnefr they might do mif- chief If forced into the belly, they ought certainly tq be removed. When^we deterrnine to remove any part of the omentum, the eafiefl: and fafeft me- thod pf doing it is this. The membrane Ihould be carefully expanded at the part intended to be cut, in which ftate it is eafily divided with thin-edged fciflars, much more fo indeed than with any other inftrument. When fully fpread out, any turn of the inteftine that may be envelo- ped in it, is at once brought to view, which without this precaution we would run the rilk of dividing with the-fciflars. When, again, a portion of gut is found to be mortified, if returned in this ftate, a difcharge of feces would certainly / / takeSed. II. Of Hernia, 337 take place into the cavity of the abdo- men, as foon as the mortified fpot fhould feparate from the found. For the preven- tion of this, which would foon terminate in the death of the patient, if a fmall fpot only is difeafed, we fhould endeavour with a neeale and ligature, to conned: the found part of the gut immediately above the mortified fpot, to the wound in the abdominal mufcles. By this the feces are difcharged by the wound, when the mortified fpot either feparates or is cut out; and different inftances have oc- curred, where the lofs of fubftance pro- duced by the morrification was not ex- tenfive, of the opening into the gut be- coming gradually lefs, and at lafl: heal- ing entirely: But whether the event fhould prove fo fortunate or not, whenever a portion of gut is completely mortified, it fliould pbe fe'cured with a ligature to the contiguous parts. And farther, when the mortification is extenfive, and includes, fo far as it goes, the whole circumference of the gut, the gaugrenoirs,338 Of Hernia. Chap; XXIII nia; gangrenous parts fliould be cut out at once; and if the quantity thus taken away is not fo confiderable as to prevent the ends of the gut from being brought into contadl, it fhould be dotie immediate- ly in the manner pointed out in Chapter III. Se6t. XII. when treating of wounds of the lnteftinal Canal : This at leaft af- fords a chance of the ends of the gut be- ing made to reunite; and if this unluckily fliould not happen, a pallage for the feces will ftiil be fecured by the groin. Although in this manner many have recovered who otherwife mufl; have died ; yet it mufl: be admitted, that the rifk at- tending patients in this fituation mufl: be confiderable : But although a fmall pro- portion only fliould recover, itill practi- tioners would be to blame were they to omit thofe means which afford the befl: chance to their patients. A patient of my own is now ‘living, and in good health, voiding his feces by the anus, who lofl: (It leaft one foot of the inteftinal canal by mortification in a cafe of crural her«339 Of Hernia, Sea. II. Ilia 3 and we are told by different authors, of fimilar recoveries equally remarkable. It is to the moderns chiefly, I may re- mark, that we owe this important im- provement in the treatment of hernia. It is even recorded of Rau, who lived in a very late period, that on opening a her- nial fac, where a gangrenous ftate of the parts was difcovered, as the cafe was fup- pofed to be defperate, he laid down his knife and proceeded no farther in the ope- ration. ' The patient, who died next day, would in modern practice have had at leafl; fome chance for life. When it is therefore difcovered, that mortification has taken place, all the dif- eafed parts lliould be cut off, and the re- maining found part of the gut being re- tained with the fingers till properly fecu- red by a ligature, the opening in the ex- ternal oblique mufcle may then be dilated with fafety : Whereas, if it fliould be en- larged before the difeafed part of the gut Is taken away, the gangrenous portion might flip up together with the found; butOf Herni(Z. Chap. XXIII. 340 but by the precaution now pointed out, every rifk of this h prevented. The parts forming a hernia being all completely replaced, when the fac in which they were contained is found to be hard, enlarged, and much thickened, as no advantage could be derived froni preferving it, fuch parts of it as can be cut away with fafety fliould be reiuo- ved : All the lateral and.fore-parts of the fac may be fafely cut off^ but being com- monly firmly conneiled with the fperma- tic veflels behind, this part of it ought not to be touched. The operation being thus far comple- ted, in comm'on pradice the parts are dreffed with foft lint, and a fufpenfory bag employed for retaining it : By fome, however, the fides of the cut, including the Ikin, cellular fubftance, and hernial lac, are drawn together from one end to the other, \yitli a proper number of fu- tures, by which the cure is much more quickly accompiifhed. At the fame time, that the parts arQ rendered more firm than they34^ Of Hernia, Sea. IL they otherwife would be: At one time, this praaice appeared to me to he hazar- dous; and I advifed it not to be adopted, as in two inflfances a portion of gut got down between the futures, and one of the patients died before it w^s perceived : Farther experience, however, has made it obvious, that this may be always pre- vented, and that in various ways it proves ufeful : When the futures are not above half an inch from each other, and made to pafs to the bottom of the fore, fo as to include all the anterior part of the fac, this accident can never happen. With a view'’to give a free vent to any matter that may form in the courfe of the cut, I have, in fome inftances, left an open- ing at the under part of it, but this pre- caution I now believe to be unneceflary : The futures being completed, the parts fhould be all covered with a pledgit of any emollient ointment, together with fome plies of foft lint, and the whole re- tained by the T bandage. ^ The.342 Of Hernia. Chap. XXlIIa The patient muft now be carried t6 bed; and being fo placed as to have his loins fdmewhat elevated above the reft of his body, he Ihould in this fituation be laid to reft : Opiates are here parti- cularly ufeful : To prevent, or at leaft to moderate, the fever which commonly fuc- ceeds, the patient ftiould be kept cool ^ in plethoric habits, blood-letting ftiould be prefcribed, together with a rigid low diet ^ and laftly. If the belly is not naturally open, a frequent ufe of gentle laxatives is particularly proper. When, however, the ftrength has been prevloufty much reduced, either by long ficknefs or any other caufe, inftead of blood-letting and a low' diet, a nourlfti- ing regimen becomes necelTary ^ for if a patient Ip fuch circumftances is not pro- perly fupported, he wilTnot fo readily re- cover : And it is proper to remark, that in common pradlice, the Indifcrimlnate ufe of blood-letting, and an abftemious regimen, in every cafe of hernia, appears to be too rigidly adhered to ^ for although this pradice proves always ufeful In her- nia.343 Sea. II. of Hernia. In Ilia attended with inflammation, yet dai- ly experience makes it obvious, that it proves hurtful where the fyitem has been already much reduced by evacuations, and where no inflammatory fymptoms take place. , The fore fliould be looked at and dref- fed daily, by which means any* change that may take place in it will be quickly difeovered: The ligatures in the courfe of fix or feven days flioiild be withdrawn, and as foon as the parts are firmly cica- trifed, a well adapted trufs fliould be ap- plied to them, and never afterwards laid afide: Some indeed alTert, that a trufs af- ter this operation is unneceflary, and where the cure has been accompliflied with ligatures deeply placed, in the man- ner I have pointed out, it might in fome inftances be fo complete, particularly du- ring youth, as to prevent all future de- feents; but as the contrary has, in various inftances, happened, the patient fliould be alw^ays put on his guard againft it.344 Of Hernia. Chap. XXIII. In performing this operation, It was propofed a confiderable time ago by Mr Petit of Paris, and other French prac- titioners, to reduce the protruded parts, without dividing the fac ; Since that pe- riod, the pradlice has been adopted by others. Dr Monro thinks favourably of it, and on his fuggeftion I have, in diffe- rent cafes, performed the operation In this manner. But, however unwilling I am to differ from fucli authority, I cannot in this inftance avoid it: The chief reafon afligned for not opening the fac, is, that we thereby prevent the air from finding accefs to the inteflines ; but although this would be highly defirable, if the operation could otherwife be equally well performed, as it does not appear to me that this can be done, I think it right to obferve, that the practice fhould be received with cau- tion, till, by farther obfervation, it is af- certained, whether it proves beneficial or not. The beft mode of doing this Would be for tho furgeons of thofe hofpitals- in which hernioe frequently occur, to perform the operation a confiderable nuaiber of timesSe(S. II. Of Hernia. 345 times in each method, and to judge from the refult, for we fhould not decide upoii a point of fuch importance on the experi- ence to be obtained from a few cafes. The chief objedlion to the pradlice is, that unlefs the hernial fac is laid open, we cannot poffibly diftinguilh the ftate iii which'the parts contained in it are^ fo that parts might be returned into the ab- domen in fuch a ftate of difeafe as would add greatly to the hazard of the patient. The inteftines. are not only liable to mor- tify, but colledtions are fometimes found in the hernial fac, of a fetid putrid ferum, which, on being puftied into the abdomen, might do much harm. And befides, it has fometimes happened, on laying open a hernial fac, that the caufe of ftrangu- lation has been difcovered, either in the fac itfelf, or among the parts contained in it: For although, in a great proportion of cafes, a ftricftureof the paflage through which the parts have come down, is to be confidered as the caufe of all the bad fymptoms, yet inftances of the contrary VoL. V. Y fbmdtimesOf Hernia. Chap. XXIII. 34<5 fometimes occur ^ one of which I met with fome years ago^ and I Have heard of others of the fame kind.—In a cafe of fcrotal hernia of long duration, fymp- toms of ftrangulation at laft fupervened ; and on laying open the fac, the appendix vermiformis was found fo tightly twilled round a portion of gut, as left no reafon to doubt of this alone being the caufe of the mifchief. If the parts had here been return- ed without dividing the fac, no advan- tage would have been derived from the operation; and, after death, the pra6ti- tioner would have had the mortification to find, that the patient’s life might have been faved, if this very neceflary meafure had not been omitted. Inllances of the protruded parts being returned into the abdomen without open- ing the fac, are enumerated by different French pradlitioners; and in fome which ended fatally, it was found on diflec- tion, that the llrangulation of the gut liad been the effect of ftridlure form- ed by . the parts *x:ontained within the fac,Sed. II. 347 Of He mice. In file, and not by the tendon of the ex- ternal oblique mufcles through which they had paifed. Difafters of a fimilar nature having oc- curred to Mr Petit and others who had adopted the pradice, it has long in France been very generally laid alide; but in a point of fuch importance, this will not be univerfally done till farther experi- ence lhail evince whether it ought to be continued or not. By fome again, vre are advifed, to re- duce not only the protruded bowels, but even the hernial fac itfelf; whilft others allege, that the fac can never be reduced. Mr Louis, in the paper I have quoted, is clearly of this laft opinion, as Mr Pott alfo is. But we have the teftimony of different authors of credit, and particu- larly of Mr Le Dran, to the contrary; and I have now met with it in more than one inftance, where the appearances were fo unequivocal as to leave no doubt -with me refpeding it.348 of Hernia. Chap. XXIIf.. In herniae of long duration, where the parts have been long and repeatedly down^ fuch firm adhefions ufually form between the fac and the contignous parts, as to reduce them apparently into one infepa- rablemafs> fo that, in. fuch circumftan- ces, all attempts to reduce the fac would be in vain. But although this would per- haps in every inflance be the cafe in rup- tures of long continuance, we are not war- ranted in fuppofing that it would -be fo In every cafe of recent hernia. We know that the adhefion of one part of the body to anv other, cannot any where be inflantaneouf- ly produced. Even where recent dlvifion has taken place, and when the divided parts are kept in clofe contadl, the fpace of fome days Is commonly required to produce a firm reunion.. Now In the cafe of a portion of membrane being forced into a natural opening, where the partSt are neither rendered raw by art, nor are as yet in a date of inflammation, a flill longer period mufl be required for thia ^ffedl; and in fad, although there is fcarce-349 Sea. II. of Hernia, ly perhaps an inftance of a hernial fac of long duration being reduced, yet there are fundry Indilputable faas which Ihow, that in recent ruptures it may be return- ed. In one of thofe to which I allude, the gut had been down five or fix days, and formed a tumor in the groin of the fize of an egg: The fac did not in any point feem to adhere ; the operator there- fore found no difficulty in reducing it ; and on difledion after death, which hap- pened in two days from the operation, the pafTage through the external oblique mufcle was found dilated, but no exifl- ence of a fac could be traced into it. This alfo was the cafe with the other, which had been down for twelve or thir- teen days. It is not, however, ray own opinion, that this is a^ matter of much pradical importance, I mean the poffibi- lity of reducing the hernial fac or not; for the reafons I have enumerated againfl the return of a hernia without opening the fac, occur with equal force againli our returning the fac itfelf unopened^ Y 3 TheOf Hernue. Chap. XXIII, 35^ The obfervations that I have hitherto made relate chiefly to hernia in the male fubjedt^ but as the fame openings in the external oblique mufcles exift in females, fo they are alfo liable to the variety of rupture we have juft been defcribing. In males, however, the bubonocele is ^ore frequently met with than in women, and as in them too the cellular membrane furrounding the fpermatic vefteU is very lax and dilatable, fo, hernial fweliings of this part are commonly much larger in them than in women. But inftances fome- times occur, even in women, of the bubo- nocele being of great bulk: I have known the protruded parts fall down to the very bottom of the labia pudendi. As the openings in the external oblique mufcles of females are exceedingly ftmi- lar to thofe in the male, fo the treatment of bubonocele is in them very fimilar to what is found to anfwer in men. When glyfters, blood-letting, aiid the other reme- dies enumerated above do not fucceed, the fame operation of laying open the hernialSed. II. 351 Of Hernia. fac, and enlarging the opening in the tendon of the oblique mufcle, is here equally pro- per as In the other fex. With modefl: women, hernise often take place without the praditioner in attend- ance being made acquainted with them; whenever therefore fuch fymptoms of cho- lic occur in females as give reafon to fu- fped the exiftence of hernia, a particular examination fliould always be made, in order if poffible to difcover the caufe of the mifchief, from the removal of which alone a cure can be expeded. In this manner, I, have, in different in- flances, faved the lives of patients, who otherwife in all probability would have died, without the caufe of their difeafe being known: With fome women this wmuld happen from delicacy alone ^ but inftances alfo occur, of hernise ending fatally, where the tumors are fo fmall as fcarcely to attrad attention from the pa- tient. Y4 SEC-Of Hernia. Chap. XXIII. 352 SECTION III. Of the Hernia Congenita. From the anatomical defcriptioil given in the firfl: fedlion of this chap- ter, of the parts chiefly concerned In her- nia, it appears, that in the common hernia of the fcrotum, the parts protruded from the abdomen mufl; neceflarily be contained in a bag or fac perfedlly diftln£l from the ■ teflis : In that kind of rupture, the tef- tis therefore remains in its ufual fitua- tion, fufrounded by its own proper mem- brane the tunica vaginalis, and not in con- tad with any other part. But from the fame defcription it ap- pears, that if in early infancy a portion of gut Ihould flip down by the fame paf- fageOf Hernice. Sea. III. 353 fage with the tefticle, that the parts fo protruded muft be in immediate contaa with the teftis, and muft thus be cdntain- ed in the tunica vaginalis ; fo that in this rupture, very properly by Haller termed Hernia Congenita, the tunica vaginalis tef- tis forms the hernial fac. The difcovery of this variety of her- nia, which was referved for modern times, enables us to account for a number of ca- fes recorded in books of furgery, of the contents of ruptures being found in the fame bag with the tefticle : A circum- ftance which, till this difcovery, was con- ftdered as a clear proof of the perito- nseum being frequently ruptured in her- nia, as till of late tliis phenomenon could not otherwife be explained. But we now know, that the peritonaeunj is never rup- tured in hernia; and that the parts form- ing a hernial tumor being found in con- tad; with the. tefticle, is a circumftance eafily explained from the more accurate knowledge we have obtained of thefe parts. TheOf Hernicd. Chap. XXIII. 354 The treatment of the congenital her- nia ihould be nearly the fame with that of bubonocele in its more ordinary form. When the parts can be replaced without an operation, it ought always to be done, a trufs being at the fame time recommend- ed as a preventative of future defcents > .and when fymptoms of ftrangulation take place, which cannot be otherwife remo- ved than by the of)eration, it here be- comes equally proper as in the common form of the difeafe. When from a hernia having taken place in early infancy, and from the parts ha- ving continued to fall into the fcrotum occaiionally from that period downwards, there is reafon to fufpedt that a rupture in which ftrangulation has taken place is of the congenital kind, the furgeon, in dividing the fac, fliould proceed with ft ill more caution than in common hernia ; for the tunica vaginalis which here forms the fac, is commonly much thinner than the ufual fac of a hernia. On the parts be- ing returned, more attention is alfo necef- faryOf Hernia. Sedt, III. 355 SEC. fary In drefGng the wound than in other ca- fes of rupture^ for the tefticle being here laid hare by the vaginal coat being cut open, if not treated with much delicacy it might probably inflame, and be there- by the caufe of much additional diftrefs and danger. The teftis therefore fhould be immediately enveloped with its own proper covering, the loofe tunica vagina- lis y and every drefling fhould be fo con- duced as to prevent with as much certain- ty as poffible the external air from find- ing accefs. In other circumftances the management of the hernia congenita Is the fame with that of any other rupture*3S6 Of Hernids. Chap, XXIII, SECTION IV. Of the Crural or Femoral Hef^nia. The feat of the crural hernia, as I have remarked above, is on the up- per and anterior part of the thigh ^ the protruded parts palling out at the fame opening through which the large blood- veflels of the thigh are tranfmitted from the abdomen. In the defcription given in the firll fec- tion of this Chapter, of the external ob- lique mufcles of the abdomen, I remark- ed, that the under edge of thefe mufcles, by doubling backwards, afliimes the ap- pearance of a ligament, extending in an oblique diredion from the fpine of the ileum near to the fymphyfis pubis, and formingOf Herman. Sea. IV. 357 forming what is commonly termed the li- gament of Poupart or Fallopius. Excepting at its two extremities where this ligament is attached to the pubes and ileum, it is not in any other part con- neded with bone. By the particular lhape of the ileum at this part, a kind of arch is formed, by the ligament palling over a hollow in that bone, through which the large artery and veins of the thigh find a paflage, the reft of the cavity be- ing filled up with cellular fubftance, glands, and fat; and all thefe parts again are co- vered with and tied down by a firm tendi- nous aponeurofis of the fafcia lata of the thigh. It is under the tendon or ligament juft now defcribed, that the parts compofing a crural hernia defcend. In fome inftan- ces they pafs immediately over the fe- moral artery and vein; in others, they are, found on the outfide of thefe vef- ^ fels; but more frequently they lie on the infide, between them and the os pu- bis. As358 Of Hernia. Chap. XXIII. the -As the protrufion and ftrangulation of any of the contents of the abdomen, ex- cites nearly the fame fymptoms, v/here- ever this dlfeafe takes place; fo thefymp- toms of crural hernia are fo fimilar to thofe deferibed in the two firft fe£tions of this Chapter, that it is not neceifary to mention them here. ‘ The cure of the femoral hernia is alfo conducted upon the fame principles with that of bubonocele deferibed in the fe- cond fedtion, fo that when fymptoms of ftrangulation take place in it, the fame remedies ftiould be employed that were advifed above for bubonocele. Only here, in attempting to reduce the parts by the hand, the preflure ftiould be made dired:- ly upwards, inftead of obliquely outwar(fs, as was advifed in the other; and when thefe means do not fucceed, the operation itfelf muft be employed. In deferibing the operation for the in-' guinal hernia, I advifed the external in- cifion to be free and extenfive. It is ftili more necefTary in the crural hernia, fromof Hernia^ 359 Sea. IV. the the parts concerned being more deeply feated. By timidity in making the firft incifion, the operator js frequently much incommoded in all the fubfequent parts of the operation. The external cut ihould extend at lead; from an inch above the upper end of the tumor to the fame length below the moft depending part of it. The membrana adipofa, tendinous ex- panfion of the fafcia lata, and hernial fac, being all divided, if the protruded parts are found in a ftate proper for redudHon, we iliould immediately attempt to replace them 5 and as the fpace below the liga- ment through which they have pafTed Is confiderable, this may commonly be done without dividing the ligament, merely by preilure properly applied with the fingers, \vhile the patient is placed in the pcfturp diredled above for the operation of the bubonocele as being heft fuited for fa- vouring a return of the bowels. When the contents of the tumor can be reduced without dividing the ligament,36o Of Hernia. Chap. XXIII. the patient is thereby faved from a good deal of hazard, as from the fituatlon of the {permatic veflels and epigraftic artery with refpedl to this ligament, any cut made into it muft be done with the rilk of thefe veflels being injured. The fpermatic veflels in pafling along towards the opening in the External ob- lique mufcle, run nearly upon the very edge or border of Poupart’s ligament al- mofl: through its whole length, fo that I confider it as impoflible to make a free divifion of the ligament without cutting them acrofs. We have been advifed indeed by fome, in order to avoid the fpermatic veflels, which they allow would be wounded, if the incifion fliould be carried directly up- wards, to cut in an oblique direction out- wards. They admit, that in this way the epigaftric artery may probably be di- vided^ but the rifk attending the divi- fion of that artery they do not confider as of much importance^ and if the dif- charge of blood which it might produce fliouldof Hernia, Sed. rv. 561 fliould happen to be confiderable, they fpeak of it as an eafy matter to take it up with a ligature; for which purpofe needles of various fliapes have been in- vented, Even in emaciated people, how- ever, it is difficult to reach the epigaitric artery with a ligature, and in corpulent patients it muil often be impoffible^ fo that the younger part of the profeffion ihould be cautious in receiving the direc- tions ufually given on this fubjed. On reading the remarks of the late Mr Sharpe upon this point *, to fecure the epiga- ftric artery with a ligature, one would ex- ped to be the eafieft of all operations^ but the difficulty which attends it, is fuch, as muft convince all who have tried it, that Mr Sharpe himfelf never put it in pradice. But even although the epigaftric arte- ry could with certainty be avoided, if the hernia is large, the ligament mufl: be fo much ftretched as to bring the fperma- VoL. V. Z tic * Critical Inquiry into the prefent ftate of Surgery.Of Hernia. Chap. XXIII. 362 tic veflels fo nearly on a line with the under edge of it, as to render it altoge- ther impoffible to divide the one without the other; and whoever will examine thefe parts in this fituation, will fee that this cannot be avoided, whether the in- cifion is carried diredly upwards, or even obliquely outwards or inwards. Some who have been fenfible of the danger attending this part of the opera- tion, have propofed merely to dilate the paflage, inftead of dividing the ligament; and Mr Arnaud, a French, author, deli- neates a curved levator for the purpofe of fupporting the ligament till the pro- truded parts are reduced: but as we are to fuppofe in every cafe of ftrangulated hernia, that the paflage through which the parts have fallen down is already di- lated to nearly its utmofl: poflible extent, in fuch a fituation to attempt a farther dilatation without the afliilance of the knife, would feldom, it is probable, an- fwer any good purpofe. A363 Sea. IV. of Hernice. A confiderable time ago it occurred to me, that in this part of the operation fome affiftance might be derived from performing it in the following manner; and having fince had occafion to put it in pradice with fliccefs, I can now with fome confidence recommend it. Inftead of dividing the ligament in the ordinary way, from below upwards, I make a flight incifion into it, about aii inch in length, beginning above and proceeding to the under edge of it. The firft fcratch with the fcalpel fhould be flighty but by repeated touches, it fhould be made to penetrate almofl through the whole thicknefs of the liga- ment, till at lafl only a thin layer of it remains : In this fltuation the protruded parts may for the moft part be returned with 6afe, as the ligament where thus weakened by the incifion will yield gra- dually to the preflure applied for the rc- dudion of the iiiteftmes. As in this manner the opening may be enlarged to any neceffary extent, and as Z 2 the364 Of Hernia. Chap. XXIII. the fpermatl<b veffels and epigaftric arte- ry are thus avoided^ the operation may may not only be done with equal cer- tainty, but with the fame fafety, as for any other rupture. For, by hot penetra- ting with the fcalpel through the whole thicknefs of the ligament under which thefe blood-veflels Jie, they are thereby kept free from danger during this part of the operation; and, the prefliire after- wards ufed for the reduction of the pro- truded parts, if done in a gradual man- ner, can never injure them materially, as blood-veflels of the fize and ftrength of thefe eaflly admit of much more exten- iion than can be here required. In every other circumftance, the cru- ral hernia, as I have obferved already, requires the fame method of treatment with bubonocele, for which the fecond fedtion of this chapter may be confulted: Only I may remark, that the dreflings are more eaflly retained after this opera- tion, by a piece of leather fpread with j plafter365 ■ of Hernia, Sea. IV. 23 SEC^ plaller moderately adhefive, than with any kind of bandage. I have already obferved, that the cru- ral hernia Is more frequent in women than in men, owing to the particular con- formation of the parts in which it oc- curs. In women the fame mode of ope- rating fliould be obfefved as in men, for as in them there is the fame rilk of wound- ing the epigaftric artery, the fame pre- cautions are neceflary for avoiding it, and by attending to the diredions given above It may be always done.366^ Of Bernice. Chap. XXIII. SECTION V. Of the Exomphalos, or Umbilical Rupture. IN this variety of hernia, the parts pro- truded from the abdomen pafs out at the umbilicus ^ and the contents of the hernial fac are here, as in every other kind of rupture, exceedingly various. In fome inftances they confift of inteftines only; fometimes of omentum only; and frequently of both. In fome, part of the ftomach, liver, and fpleen, have been found in the fac of an umbilical rup- ture. As all thefe parts are naturally con- tained in the peritoneum, the hernial fac, it is evident, muft here as in other rup- tures be formed by that membrane being carried along with fuch parts as are pro- truded. Accordingly, in every recent inftance of umbilical hernia, this fac is r inSed. V. Of Hernia. 367 in general evident; but when the tumor is large, the fac becomes fo intimately connected with the contiguous parts, in confequence of the weight and preflure of its contents, that many have doubted whether this fpecies of hernia-has a fac or not^ In ^fome inftances the tumor has increafed to fuch a degree, as adually to burft the furrounding parts; not only the fac, and cellular fubftance, but even the ftin itfelf. Umbilical hernise occur moft frequently in early infancy, and in corpulent people more frequently than in others, from this obvious reafon, that by the great bulk of parts contained in the abdomen of fat; people, the furrounding mufcles are kept conftantly diftended, by which the opening at the umbilicus through which the parts are protruded, is made more pervious : For a iimilar reafon, wo- men in the laft months of pregnancy are particularly liable to this rupture- If attended to in due time, a proper bandage will commonly effed a cure ^ ^ and^Of Hernia. Chap. XXIIK 368 and, when produced by pregnancy, a tem^ porary removal of the difeafe, is, in ge- neral, a certain confequence of delivery. While a woman continues pregnant, we can feldom remove an umbilical rupture, but by employing a bandage early we can in every inftance prevent the tumor from becoming larger. Although different portions of the ali- mentary canal are occafionally met with in umbilical ruptures y yet by experience we know, that the omentum alone is more frequently protruded than any of the other vifcera: And hence umbilical herniae do not in general produce fuch bad fymptoms as other ruptures. It happens,, however, as I have obfer- ved above, that in fome cafes a portion of gut alone is pulhed out, by which the- ufual fymptoms of ftrangulation are apt to be induced. In which cafe, when the means ufually employ ed for returning the gut do not fucceed, as a ftridure of the paffage through which it has fallen, is to be confidered as the caufe of the danger},Of Hernict. Sed. V. 3^9 danger ; fo a cure^ it is evident, muft de- pend entirely on the removal of this ftric- ture. In performing this operation^ a. free external ineifion along the courfe of the tumor, is the firft ftep to be taken ^ and on laying the protruded parts bare by a cautious divifion of the fac, if they are found in a ftate fit to be returned, and if this cannot be effeded but by en- larging the paflage into the abdomen, it may be done with fafety by introducing the finger, and enlarging the opening with a blunt-pointed biftoury. This in- cifion, I may remark, may be made with almoft equal fafety in any diredion; but left the ligament formed by the umbili- cal veflels Ihould be wounded, which, however, would not probably do much harm, yet when an operator is of a dif- ferent opinion, it may always be avoid- ed by making the ineifion on the left fide of the umbilicus, and carrying it a little obliquely upwards and outwards» When, again, the prolapfed parts, on being laid open, are found to be fo much ^ difeafedip Of Hernia. Chap. XXIIL difeafed as to render their redudion Im- proper, the directions formerly given for the treatment of fimllar occurrences in other cafes of hernia, will apply with equal propriety here, and need not now be repeated. By Albucafis, Guido, Aquapendens, and others, it has been propofed', with a view to obtain a radical cure without the operation, to lift up the Ikin covering the tuinor, with the finger and thumb, fo as to feparate it from the gut beneath and a ligature being pafled round the parts thus raifed up, it muft be made fo tight as to induce mortification over the v/hole of them. In other inftances again, when the form of the fwelling did not admit of this, the fame precaution being taken for avoiding the gut, a needle containing a double ligature was introduced through the bafis of the tumor, near to its centre, and the ligatures afterwards tied one ar bove and the other below, of fuch a tlghtnefsSe6l. V. Of He mice. 371 SEC- tightnefs as to induce the wifhed for ef- fe6l. But as the pradlice thus recommended did not anfwer the purpofe, for It did not prevent a return of the difeafe, and as the deftrudion of fkin produced by it rendered every future defcent more dan- gerous, fo It is now, at leafl: by regular praditioners, very unlverfally exploded. In Plate LXV. fig. 3. is reprefented the befl bandage I have ever met with for umbilical herniiE.Of Hernia. Chap, XXIII. 372 SECTION VI. Of Ventral Hernia. IN ventral hernia the parts forming the fwelling are protruded between the interftices of the abdominal mufcles. No part of the abdomen is altogether exempt- ed from thefe tumors, but they are moft frequent in the parts moft contiguous to the linea alba; and when the ftomach alone forms the tumor, the fwelling is fituated juft under, or immediately to one fide of the xiphoid cartilage. The treatment of this rupture corre- fponds exactly with that of exomphalos. When the parts are reducible by the hand alone, a cure may be frequently obtained by the conftant ufe of a trufs; and, again, when fymptoms of ftrangulation occur, which cannot be removed but by an inci- fion through the ftridure, this mull be done373 Of Hernia. Sea. VI. SEC- done in the manner pointed out in the laft Sedion, fo as to admit of the parts being replaced. The after-treatment of the parts concerned in the operation, is the fame here as in the umbilical rupture.374 Of Chap, X^CIIL SECTION VII, Of the Hernia of the Foramen Ovale. IN this rupture, the vlfcera protrude through the foramen ovale of the pu- bis and ifehium. It is not a frequent variety of the difeafe; but, as it is fome- times met with, it is neceffary to deferibe it. The fymptoms of this hernia being very fimilar to thofe produced by ftran- gulated inteftines in other parts, they need not be enumerated here: Only it is proper to remark, that in this rupture the tumor is in men formed near to the upper part of the perinaeum; and in women, near to the under part of one of the labia^ pudendi. In both fexes it lies upon the obturator externus, between the pe6li- naeus mufcle and the firft head of the tri- ceps femoris. Theof Herni(Z. 375 Sea.VII. The foramen ovale being partly filled up by a membranous or ligamentous fub- ftance, and in part by the obturatores mufcles, it was commonly fuppofed that this fpecies of hernia arofe from a relaxa- tion of one or other of thefe ^ but as an opening is left in the foramen for the tranfiniffion of different blood-veffels and nerves, it is now known, that in this rup- ture the vifcera pafs out at that opening, by gliding down in the courfe of thefe veffels. The general mode of treatment point- ed out in the preceding feffions for other herniae, muft be here kept in view; and when the parts are reduced, a trufs pro- perly adapted to the parts, muft be truft- ed to for retaining them. But as it will fometimes happen in this, as in every other hernia, that the parts cannot be re- duced with the hand alone, when this is found to be the cafe, it muft be done by dilating the paffage through which they protrude. The tumor, however, that takes place here, being in general fo fmall37^ Of Hernia. Chap. XXIII. fmall as fcarcely to be noticed but by the mod minute attention, unlefs a local pain, with the uliial fymptoms of a ftrangula- ted gut happen to lead to it, it is feldom difcovered from its fize, till it is too late to exped much afliftance from art. But whenever the operation becomes neceflary, as it muft always be when fymptoms of ftrangulation a rife from a portion of protruded gut that cannot by any other means be reduced, after care- fully laying the prolapfed parts bare, if they cannot be reduced but by dilating the paffage, and as death muft enfue, if redudion cannot beaccompliftied,it ought undoubtedly to be attempted : But as it is almoft impoflible to enlarge this opening with an inftrument, without dividing fome of the blood-veflels that pafs out at the foramen ; an4 as this would probably end in the death of the patient, the depth and fituation of the parts rendering the appli- cation of a ligature impradicable; it is more advifable, by means of a flat hook, to dilate the paflTage to a fufiicient fize, bySea. VII. Of Hernia. 377 by gentle gradual ftretching. By infinu- ating the end of the hook between the in- teftinc and ligament, and pulling it gra- dually upwards, a degree of dilatation may be obtained fufEcient for the reduc- tion of the gut, without incurring that hazard which the divifion of the ligament with the knife or any lharp inftrument miift always occafion. A hook for this purpofe is delineated in Plate LXXVIII. fig. 2. A a VoL. V. S E C-Of Hernice. Chap. XXIII. 37^ SECTION VIII. Of the Hernia Cyftica^ or Hernia of the Uri^ nary Bladder. IN this rupture, the urinary bladder is^ the organ protruded ^ and the litua - tions in which it occurs, are either in the groin and fcrotum through the opening in the external oblique mufcle of the ab- domen^ in the fore-part of the thi^h un- der Poupart’s ligament 3 or in the peri- nseum through fome of the mufcular in-; terflices of that part Inftances have likewdfe happened, of the bladder being puflied into the vagina, fo as to form her- nial tumors of confiderable bulk. As only a part of the bladder is covered with the peritonaeum; and as*the bladder, ' " in * An inftance of this is recorded in Vpl. IV. of Me- moires de 1’Academic Rojale de Chirurgie, bj Monf, Pipelet le Jeune, p. i8i.379 Sea. VIII. Of Hernia^ in order to get into the opening In the ex- ternal oblique mufcle, or under the liga- ment of Fallopius, muft Infinuate itfelf between that membrane and the abdomi- nal mufcles, It Is evident, that the her- nia cyftica cannot be covered with a fac, as Inteftinal ruptures ufually are. In the perinaeum, again, that portion of the blad- der moft liable to fall Into It, Is In no way conneaed with the peritonaeum. In fome Inftances, this rupture occurs by Itfelf, without any complication ^ and in others It is accompanied with inteftines and omentum, both In Inguinal and femo- ral hernlae : When complicated with a bu- bonocele, the protruded portion of the bladder dies between the hernial fac and fpermatic cord ^ that is, the inteftinal hernia lies anterior to it. The ufual fymptoms of this hernm are, A tumor, attended with fluauatlan, ei- ther in the groin, in the fore-part of the thigh, or perinaeum, which generally fub- fides when the patient voids urine, and' becomes larger when the bladder Is full. A a 2 WhenOf Hernia. Chap. XXIII, 380 When the tumor is large, before water can be pafled with freedom, it is com- monly neceflary to employ preflure, at the fame time that, when in the groin or thigh, the parts require to be as much ele- vated as poflible ; but when the tumor is fmall, and efpecially when no ftridlure has taken place, the patient generally voids urine eafily, and without afliftanee from external preflure. When a hernia of the bladder takes place without any complication,^ it com- monly proceeds from a fupprefIio.n of u- rine. In the method of cure, therefore, every caufe of fuppreflion fhould as far as poflible be guarded againfl; and if the protruded portion of bladder can be reduced, a trufs properly fitted to the part, fhould be worn for a confiderable time. But when the parts cannot be re- duced, as long as no fymptoms appear to render the operation neceflary, a fufpen- fory bag, fo fitted as effeftually to fupport the tumor without comprefling it, is per* haps the only remedy we fhould employ. When,,Sea. VIII. OfHernice. 381 When, again, a portion of bladder pro- trudes into the vagina, after reducing the parts, which we do by laying the pa- tient on her back, with her loins e- ievated,,and preffing with the fingers from the vagina, defcents in future may in general be prevented by the ufe of the peflary reprefented in Plate LXXIV. fig. 2. And the fame means, I may re- mark, are employed with fuccefs, in pre- venting defcents of the inteftinal canal into the vagina; a fpecies of rupture fome- times met with. It may happen, however, that the pro- lapfed parts, by being attacked with in- flammation, as the effed of ftridiire, may render the divifion of the parts producing thefe fymptoms as necelTary in this as in any other rupture. In which event, the mode of operating pointed out in the pre- ceding Sedions fliould be adopted.—On- ly it mufi be remembered, that as in the hernia-cyftica without any complication, the protruded parts are not covered with a fac, fo ftlll more caution is neceflary A a 3 in382 Of Hernia. Chap. XXIII, in laying them bare, than in the ordina- ry kind of rupture. It fometimes happens, that ftones are produced in the protruded portion of the bladder. In which event, if it Ihould ever be neceffary to cut into them, if the blad- der can be eafily retained in its prolapfed ftate till the wound is healed, it ought always to be attempted, in order to pre- vent that internal extravafation of urine which otherwife would occur, and which certainly would do harm. The fame pre- caution too is neceffary, when by acci- dent in the operation for the hernia-cyfti- ca, the bladder is cut into 3 or when any part of it is in a ftate of mortification, and therefore unfit to be returned into thp abdomen * The be ft accounts of all the varieties of hernia are to be met with in the works of Le Dran, Heifter, and of Mauchart, in a Treatife de Hernia Incarcerata ; in the different volumes of Memoires de TAcademie Royal de Chirurgie of Paris •, in the Medical Elfays of Edinburgh *, In the works of the late Dr Monro •, in Haller de Hernk CongenitasSea. VIII 383 of Hernia. C H P- A a 4 Congenita, in his Opufcula Pathologica ; in Mr John Hun- ter’s very accurate account of the itate of the teftis in the foetus, to be met with in Dr Hunter’s Medical Commen- taries ; in Mr Pott’s and Dr Richter’s valuable works on this fubje61.- Thefe are the bell modern authors on this fubjed; and very little fatisfadion is to be obtained from any of the ancient writers upon it.384 On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV. CHAPTER XXIV. On the Hydrocele. SECTION I. General Remarks on the Hydrocele. Every tumor formed by a colledion of water, may, from the import of the word, be called a hydrocele, but, in chirurgical language, the term implies a watery fwelling in the fcrotum or fperma- tic cord. This,SecS. I. On the Hydrocele. 385 This, as well as all tumors in the fcro- tum or groin, not immediately produced by the protrufion of parts from the abdo- men, were, by ancient writers, termed falfe or fpurious herniae, from the refem- blance which they bear to the true her- nia, or rupture; but no advantage is de- rived from this diftindlion: And, as it arofe from an erroneous opinion of the origin of herniae, I fliould not have taken notice of it here, but with the view of making the writings of the ancients upon this fubjedl intelligible. Indeed, the doctrines of the writers of the laft and preceding centurles^, concern- ing hydrocele, are fo confufed and per- plexed, that they do not merit attention^ for^ as they were ignorant of the anato- my of the parts in which the difeafe is feated, the ideas which they formed of it, gave rife to an erroneous pathology and pernicious pradice. Not being ac- quainted with the ftrudure of the parts affedted, they proceeded with much: un- neceflary dread in the treatment of the difeafes386 On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV,. difeafes to which they were liable ^ for, by fuppojfing an immediate connection to fubfifl between the coats of the teflicle, the cavity of the abdomen, liver, kidneys, and other vifcera, they were induced to confider the colledion of water in hydro- cele, as a depofition fromthefe parts, and as tending to free them, and perhaps the fyftem at large, from difeafes of import- ance. In confequenee of this, their praClice was timid and indecifive; fo that every chirurglcal operation, in which thefe parts were concerned, became a matter of much importance to refolve upon, and very te- dious, painful, aiid uncertain in the exe- cution, "" From the time of Celfus to the middle of the laft century, little progrefs feems to have been made in this part of chirur- gical pathology. Indeed, from Celfus, downwards, authors feem to have copied almofl exactly from one another, till Wifeman, Le Dran, Garangeot, and Hei- fler, gradually elucidated the fubjeCl > ' butOn the Hydrocele. Se6l. I. 3S7 but It was not clearly underftood till the difcoverles of Monro, Haller, Hunter and Pott made the anatomy of the parts plain and intelligible. So much attention, how- ever, is ftill given to the gonfufed ac- counts of ancient writers, that the real nature of the difeafes of the teftes, and their appendages, is, from this caufe alone, lefs underftood than it otherwife would be. There is perhaps no part Indeed of furgery with which ftudents in general are fo little acquainted. Nothing but a ft rid attention to the dlf- c'overies of late anatomifts, can convey clear and diftind ideas concerning them ^ and, whoever will rnake himfelf acquaint- ed with thefe, will find, that the hydro- ' cele and affedions of the teftes, may be explained with as much clearnefs and fimpllclty as any other clafs of difeafes. In the firft Sedion of Chapter XXIII. I gave a defcription of thefe parts, in fo far as was neceflary for the confideration of hernia. Referring to what I had then pccafion to fay, commencing in page 258, and388 , On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV. and ending page 270, I have now only to add what may be neceflary for under- ftanding more completely the difeafes of the teftes^ and of their tunics. As from the forefaid defcription it ap- pears, that the teftis while in the abdo- men is firmly attached to the peritoneum behind, fo, when in the fcrotum, as the vaginal coat with which it is there fur- rounded, is evidently a continuation of the peritoneum, it muft of neceflity be ftill connedled with that membrane, in the fame manner as while it remained in the abdomen. And accordingly we find, that, although the tefticle lies loofe in this fac, or vaginal coat, in every other part, yet, along its pofterior part, it is firmly at- tached to it. At this part^ the different •veffeis of the tfeftis ftill enters and at this the peritoneum, or what is now the tu- nica vaginalis, is reflected over it, and everywhere clofely attached to it, there- by forming the tnnica albuginea, or im- mediate covering of the tefticle ^ fo that the tunica albuginea is demqnftrably a mereSea. I. 389 On the Hydrocele. mere continuation of the other, or vagi- nal coat. The Inferior part of this procefs of the peritoneum being fomewhat wider below than above,, leaves the tunica vaginalis of a pyramidal form; and it is alfo fome- what longer than the teftis, reaching from the fuperior part of the epididymis, where it begins, to a little below the inferior point of the tefticle where it terminates. It is altogether of fuch a fi^e as to allow the teftis to roll eafily within it; its prin- cipal ufe appearing to be, to retain a fmall quantity of a fine exhalation, which is conftantly fecreting, either from its own furface, or from the furface of the teftis itfelf, for the purpofe of keeping the lat- ter molft and eafy. The vaginal coat, of which I have thus given a defcriptlon, is the only loofe co- vering belonging either to the fpermatic cord or teftis: For although, by many, a vaginal coat of the fpermatic cord is alfo defcribed, together with a fuppofed fep- tum between it and the vaginal coat of the39^ On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV» the teftls, yet no fuch covering is, bn dif- fedlion, found to exift. The upper part of what may be called the fpermatic pro- cefs of the peritoneum, is evidently do- fed, as has been defcribed above, foon after the defcent of the tefticle 3 and a firm adhefion taking place between the cord and that part of the fac with which it is enveloped, no veftige can be traced, either of a vaginal coat of the fpermatic cord, or of any particular feptum between this coat and the tefticle: This, it is of importance to notice, as the difeafes of thefe parts cannot otherwife be under- flood. As the difeafes we are now to confider are chiefly feated in the coverings of the teftis, I have given a more particular de- fcription of them, than is neceflary in fpeaking of the teftis itfelf; with refpecft to which, I fhall only obferve, that it is evidently very vafcular, being compofed almofl entirely of different convolutions of veffels. Befid'esSe£l. I. On the Hydrocele. 391 Eefides the vaginal coat proper to each tefticle, the two teftes have for their far- ther protedlion, a more external covering, the fcrotum; a bag formed almoft entire- ly of ftin and cellular fubftance; for that body, the dartos, which has been com- monly defcribed as mufcular, is now clearly proved to be altogether cellular^ Even the feptum fcroti, or that mem- brane which divides one tefticle from another, is compofed of cellular fubftance in a more condenfed ftate. By air it is eafily inflated, and it is alfo pervious to watery fo, of courfe, it partakes of all thofe watery effiifions, to which the more external parts of the fcrotum are liable. This ftrudhire of the fcrotum it is ne- ceiTary to be acquainted with, as, from the defcriptions which, till of late, have been given of it, young pradtitioners are induced to confider it as mufcular, and to fuppofe the feptum, with its rapha, to be ligamentous ^ and hence they are led to be more cautious than they need be in performing operations upon it. Having392 On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV. Having thus premifed an account of the anatomy of the parts in which the water in hydrocele is colleded, I fhall now proceed to confider the different va- rieties of the difeafe. All the varieties of hydrocele which have been mentioned by authors, may, I think, be comprehended under the two following, the anafarcous, and encyfted. In the former, the ferum is diffufed over all the fubftance of the part in which it is feated; it is not collected in any particular cavity, but occupies equally all the cells of the part: In that which I term encyfted, the water is colleded in one diftindt bag, and a fludluation of a fluid is, in general; perceived in it. The fcrotum, with its contents, the tefticle and its appendages, are liable to both varie- ties of the difeafe ^ and the fpermatic cord, with its coverings, are alfo liable to both. We fhall firft confider thofe of the fcrotum. S E C-Sed:. II. On the Hydrocele, 393 SECTION II. Of the Anafarcous Hydrocele of the Scrotum. HE fcrotum, from its cellular flruc- ture, and immediate connection with the trunk of the body, is apt to partake of every diffiifable fwelling with which the upper part of.the body is attacked: And, accordingly, we find, that general anafarcous fwellings feldom fubfift for any length of time, without affecting the fcrotum. A local anafarca of the fcro- tum, is fometimes indeed produced by a local'caufe, to wit, by the preffure of a tumor on the lymphatics of the part; by external injuries 3 and occafionally by an effufion of urine from a rupture of the urethra : But fuch occurrences are rare ^ a general difeafe of the conflitution being jhe ufual forerunner of thefe tumors. VoL. V. B b As394 Hydrocele. Chap, XXIV. As foon as water has colleded in any confiderable quantity in the fcrotum, a foft, inelaftic, colourlefs tumor is obfer-- ved over the whole of it; imprellions are eafily received and retained for fome time ^ the fkin at firft preferves its natu- ral appearance > and the rugae of the fcro- tum,. which, in a date of health, are ob^ vious, are not for fome time much alter- ed^ but as the fwelling advances, they gradually difappear, till at laft they are to- tally obliterated : The fwelling, from be- ing at firft foft, and of a confiftence fimi- lar to dough, by degrees turns more firm, and the fkin at laft acquires an unnatural white ftiihing appearance. The tumor at length becomes large ^ and although originally confined to the fcrotum, it at laft fpreads up the groin: The penis like- wife becomes afiTedled, and often fo fuell- ed and diftorted, as to excite much in- convenience and diftrefs^ and although the fcrotum is coiiipofed of parts which readily admit of dilatation, yet, in fome inftances, the tumor becomes fq enor- mous^395 On the Hydrocele* Sea. II. mous, as to burfl from one end to the other. ^ Thefe appearances of the dlfeafe are fo charaderiftic, as to render it almofl: im-* poflible to confound this fpecies of hy- drocele with any other tumor of the ' fcrotum. I have already obferved, that inftances fometimes occur, of the fcrotal anafarca being produced by a local caufe^ but, in a great proportion of cafes, it is induced by a general tendency to dropfy ^ fo that the cur^ will chiefly depend upon the removal of that habit of body, by which it was at firft produced. The treatment of this difeafe of the fyftem falls to the province of the phyfi- cian, fo that I (hall not enter upon it at prefent^ but the aid of furgery is fre- quently required, for relieving the di- ftrefs which thefe tumors always induce when they become large. In thefe cir- curaftances, the objed of furgery is, by drawing off the water, to diminifli the ^ze of the tumor, or even to remove it B b 2 altogether,396 On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV* altogether, which not only gives much immediate relief, but is a means of the diftended parts recovering their tone more readily than they otherwife would do. Different methods have been propo- fed for evacuating the water ^ the intro- dudtion of a feton, palling a trocar, incl- lions, and pundtures. All of thefe, excepting that by the tro- car, ferve very effedtually to evacuate the diffufed water; and therefore we are to adopt that which not only excites leaft pam, but which is leaf!: liable to produce troublefome confequences; and this un- queftionably is the method by pundlures. The feton and long fcarifications, may difcharge the water more quickly than pundtures ; but in droplicaj conftitutions, fueh as the anafarcous hydrocele is comr monly coniiedted with, they almoft con- ftantly do mifchief. For the firft two or three days, fcarifications give the patient much fatisfadiion^ the water is almoft en- tirely difcharged, the tumor is of courfe greatly diminifhed, and much relief isSedt. II. On the Hydrocele. 397 thereby obtained. About this time, how- ever, the fcarified parts comnionly begin to fret, their edges turn hard and intla- ' ined, and by degrees, an eryfipelatous rednefs fpreads over the neighbouring parts; That fretful uneafinefs at firft com- plained of, terminates at lafl: in what the patient terms a burning kind of pain, which frequently becomes fo tormenting, ' as entirely to defiroy reft ^ and it too commonly happens, that all our applica- tions fail in preventing the acceflion of gangrene, by which the patient is in ge- neral carried off, ' I will not fay that fcarifications always end in this fatal way ; but I have in ma- ny inftances found that they did fo^ and, on the contrary, although pundlures fome- times terminate in the fame manner, they are by no means fo ready to do fo. As fcarifications are fo apt to do harm, there is much reafon to fufpedt that the trocar and feton, which both excite ftili more irritation, would prove ftill more B b 3 hurtful.398 0^ Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV. hurtful. They are now, accordingly, in the anafarcous hydrocele very generally laid afide. When fcarifications are to be employ- ed, we make them with the flioulder of a lancet: they Ihould penetrate the cutis vera, but Ihould qot be carried to a great- er depth, and they fhould not exceed an inch in length: punctures fliould be car- ried to the fame depth; and they, as well as fcarifications, Ihould be always on the mofl: prominent part of the tumor: Punc- tures are befl: made with the point of a lancet : five or fix are commonly fuffi- cient at once^ but as they are apt to heal before the ferum is all difcharged, they require from time to time to be renewed. Preferving the parts dry, by a frequent renewal of dry linen cloths, in order to imbibe the moifture, is here a very necef- fary attention 5 indeed, the want of it feems often to be the caufe of much of the mifehief that enfues from this opera- tion. 2 WhenSed. II. On the Hydrocele. 399 When cither fcarifications orpundiires go wrong, by beginning to inflame and turn painful, Inftead of the warm emol- lient poultices and fomentations ufually employed, a cold faturnine folution ap- plied upon foft linen, not only proVes more eife6tual in putting a Hop to the in- flammation, but affords, more immediate relief to the prefent diftrefs. Lime wa- ter, employed in the fame manner, proves alfo an ufeful application. Mortification, however, will take place in fome infl;ances,notwithfl;anding all that we can do to prevent it: In this cafe, we truft chiefly to the internal ufe of bark, wine, and other tonics, and to warm dreflings and other external applications ufually Employed in gangrene : As this variety of gangrene is aimofl; always ac- companied with much irritation in the parts affected, I often give opium with advantage : Opium proves chiefly ufeful/ by removing pain and general irritabili- ty ; but as we know from experiment, that it adls as an antifeptic, it may in B b 4 fome400 On th Hydrocele. Chap. XXIY.- fome cafes flop the progrefs of gangrene,, by adingdiredly upon the difeafed parts. In a great proportion of cafes, the ut- moil danger is to be dreaded from the pundured parts being attacked with gan- grene ; yet, in a few inftances, very un- expeded cures are obtained, after all the teguments have been deftroyed by it. A remarkable inftance of this occurred fome years ago, in the Royal Infirmary here: The whole fcrotum feparated, and left the tefticles bare. During the time that the fore remained open, all the water eolleo ted in other parts of the body was eva- cuated, and, by the ufe of large quantities of bark, and mild dreflings to the fore, the patient got well. In the courfe of the cure, the teftes became enveloped with a thick cellular fubftance, which ferved as a very good means of protedion. It muft have been fome fimilar produdion,. I fup- pofe, which Hildanus fpeaks of as a rege- nerated fcrotum^. I * Obfervat. Chirurg, Cent. 5. Obf. 75,Se£l, II. On the Hydrocele^ 401 I have already obferved, that, although the anarfarcous hydrocele, for the moft part, depends upon a general tendency to dropfy, that fome inftances, however, occur, of a local caufe producing a mere local dropfy of the ferotum. ‘ Thus it has, in fome inftances, arifen from tumors in the groin and abdomen obftru<fting the paflage of the lymphatics. In this eafcy if the tumors producing the ob- ftrudion can be extirpated, no other means will afford fuch effedtual relief 5, but, when fo deeply feated as to render any attempt for removing them unfafe^ -the practice I have pointed out, of ma- king puneftures in the moft depending part of the tumor, muft be employed, from time to time, to palliate the fymp- toms. ' It has fometimes happened, in fuppref- fion of urine, whether arifing from ftric- tures in the urethra, or from ftones im- paded in it, that the urethra has burft, and the urine, in this manner, getting accefs to the cellular texture of the fero- tum.402 On the Hydrocele^ Chap. XXIV# turn, an anafarcous fwelling rifes imme- diately over the whole of it; nor does it commonly diminilh till the caufe by which it is produced is removed. In order to prevent the formation of linufes,. which, in fuch circumftances, will otherwife be apt to occur, an incilion fliould be made into the moft depending part of the fcrotum, and carried to fuch a depth as is fufficient for reaching the wound in the urethra. In this manner, a free vent will not only be given to the urine already diffufed, but the farther colleftion, of it may probably be prevent- ed. If a ftone impaded in the urethra is found to be the caufe of the effuiion, It fliould be cut out 3 and, if the obflrudion is produced by llridures in the urethra, they muft be removed by a proper ufe of bougies. The caufe being thus removed, if the habit of body of the patient is good, and untainted with any venereal or other general affedion, by drelling the fore properly, with foft eafy applications, the opening into the urethra will probably heal,Sed. II. On the Hydrocele. heal, and a complete cure will, in this manner, be obtained. But when thefe ailments arecomplicated with any general affedion, particularly with old venereal complaints, it frequently happens, that neither mercury nor any other medicine has much effe6l in removing them. Cafes of this kind muft have occurred to every pradlitioner. I have met with them both in the hofpital and in private practice; where, notwithftanding all the means that were employed, the paflage from the urethra remained open, and continued to afford a vent to the urine. In fuch cafes, we depend chiefly upon a proper application of bougies. The fcrotal anafarca, of a local nature, has alfo happened from the rupture of a hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis teftis : When the hydrocele of the tunica vagi- lis arrives at a great fize, jumping from, a height, or a violent blow or bruife, will readily burft it; and the water, not find- ing a paffage outwardly, muft neceffarily diffufe itfeif over the ferotum. Different inftances464 On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXiV. ^ Treatife on the Hydrocele, by John Douglas, p. 8. inftances of this have been met with, two of which are related by Douglas ^ y and others have fallen within my Own obfervatioui A fwelling of a fimllar kind is alfo fometimes induced by the water of a hydrocele of the tunica va- ginalis being improperly drawn off in the operation of tapping. ' When the ori- fice in the fldn is allowed to recede from the opening into the vaginal coat, before the water is all difcharged,as is apt to hap- pen when the operation is done with a lancet, the remainder of the colledion diffufes itfelf through the cellular fub- fiance of the ferotum, an inconvenience that may be always prevented, by ufing a trocar for this operation, inftead of a lancet. In whatever way the fwelling is produ- ced, the cure fliould confifi in laying the tumor fufficiently open, not only for eva- cuating the diffufed ferum, but for ef- feding a radical cure of the hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis. SomeSed. II. On the Hydrocele* 405 Some have imagined that danger may enfue from performing the radical cure for the hydrocele in this fituation; but I have done it in different inftances, and no harm has ever enfued from it. The pa- tient, in fome cafes, may decline the ope- ration, and, in others, his habit of body may render it improper; but, when this does not happen, few will doubt of its being better to give a patient, in fuch eircumftances, immediate and effedual relief, by performing the radical cure at once, than to fubjed him, in the firfl in- Ilance, to a good deal of confinement, for removing the diffufed fwelling of the fcrotum, and to leave him under the fame neceflity as before, of fubmitting to the radical cure for the hydrocele of the tu- iiica vaginalis. When, for either of the reafons, how- ever, that I have mentioned, this opera- tion i^ not to be performed, we endea- vour to allifl: the difcuffion of the tumor, by fiifpending the fcrotum; confining the patient to a horizontal pofture; and by the4o6 On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV. the application of aflringents to the parts affeded. Of thefe we have a great va- riety ; but I have found none anfwer fo well as a cpld folutlon of crude fal am- moniac, In the proportion of half an ounce of the fait to a pound of water and two ounces of vinegar; or poultices, pre- pared with crumb of bread, foaked In equal parts of cold water, vinegar, and brandy. I have thus confidered all the varie- ties of anafarcous fwellings, to which the fcrotum Is liable, together with the mode of treatment that appears to be adapted to each ; for, with refped to the hydro- cele of the dartos, a difeafe particularly defcribed by ancient writers, as that part of the fcrotum is now known to be en- tirely cellular, fo any water colledled in It muft tend to form that very difeafe we have juft been defcribing, an anafarcous fwelling of the whole fcrotum. We now proceed to confider that fpe- cics of hydrocele which, from being feat- edSed. II. On the Hydrocele. 407 ed within the cavity of the fcrotum, may be termed the encyfted hydrocele of the fcrotum. Of this there are two varieties, the hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis tef- tis, and that fpecies of tumor formed by water colleded in the fac of a hernia. SEC-4q8 On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV^ the SECTION III. Of the Hydrocele of the Tunica Vaginalis Tejiis. HEN treating of the anatomy of thefe parts, I had occafion to re- mark, that, in a ftate of health, an aque- ous fecretion is always found in the tuni- ca vaginalis ^ the principal ufe of which feems to be, to lubricate, and keep the iurface of the tefticle foft and eafy. In a ftate of health, this fluid is abforbed by the lymphatics of the part ^ its place being fupplied by a frefli fecretion ^ but, in difeafe, it frequently happens, either that the fecretion of this fluid is morbid^ ly increafed, or the powers of the ab- forbing veflels of the part are diminilhed. The effecft of either of thefe caufes muft ]be, to induce a preternatural colledion inSeft. III. On the Hydrocele. 409 the cavity of the vaginal coat; and thus the variety of hydrocele is produced that we are now to confider. The fymptoms induced by it are thefe: A foft colourlefs tumor is at firfl: perceived at the inferior point of the tefticle; and it is chiefly remarkable when the patient is cred:: It excites no pain, and it does not become lefs by preflure. The fliape of the tumor is at firfl: nearly globular; but it afterwards becomes pyramidal, be- ing larger below than above: As it ad- vances in fize, it becomes proportionally more tenfe, and the natural rugae of the fcrotum lefs perceptible. For a confider- able time, it does not extend farther than the ufual boundaries of the fcrotum; but, on longer continuance, it advances to the abdominal mufcles; fo that, al- though in the early periods of the dif- eafe, the fpermatic cord may be diftindly felt; in its more advanced flate, it can- not be diftinguifhed. Before arriving at this height, the weight of the tumor is for the mofl: part VoL. V. C c confiderable,410 On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV, confiderable, by which the ikin of the contiguous parts is dragged fo much downwards, as to make the penis fliririk confiderably, and fometimes difappear almoft entirely. In this advanced ftate of the difeafe, the tefticle, which ufually lies at the back part of the tumor, and which, for fome time after its commence- ment, could be diflindlly felt, is not now fo obvioufly difcovered. On minute exa- mination, however, a hardnefs may al- ways be felt along that part of the fcro- tum where the teftis is fituated; and at this point, preflure excites fome degree of uneafinefs. In a great proportion of cafes, the fluc- tuation of a fluid is obvioufly diftinguifli- ed on preiTure. It fometimes happens, however, in that tenfe ftate of the tumor, ufually produced by a long continuance of the difeafe, that the fluid contained in it is not evidently difcovered : Nor, in this fituation, is the ordinary charaderiftic mark of hydrocele more to be depended pn^ I mean the tranfparency of the tumor, . whenSe£t. III. On the Hydrocele* 411 when expofed to the light of a candle, or of the fun. In the early ftages of the difeafe, when the contents of the tumor are difcoloured, and when the vaginal coat has not yet acquired much thicknefs, the fluid contained in it, on being expofed to this trial, ufually appears tranfparent^ and, in meeting with this, we neceffarily confi- der it as a corroborating proof of the ex- Iftence of ferum. The abfence, however, of this, is not a proof of the contrary ^ for, as the tranfparency of the tumor de- pends entirely on the nature of its con- tents, and on the thicknefs of its cover- ings, whatever tends to render the one lefs clear, and the other' of a more firm texture, muft, in proportion to this effed, invalidate the certainty of the teft. During the whole continuance.of tfijs difeafe, the patient does not complain of pain in the tumor itfelf; but fome mi- eafinefs is commonly felt in the back, by the weight of the fwelling on the fper- matic cord. This, however, is generally prevented entirely, or at leafl: much alle- C c 2 viated,412 On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXrV. vlated, by the ufe of a fufpenfory ban- dage. Thefe are the ufual appearances of a hydrocele, where the difeafe is confined to one fide of the fcrotum. In fome in- ftances, however, we meet with a double hydrocele, when the difeafe occupies the cavities of both tunica vaginales,. and in which the tumor, inftead of being con- fined to one fide of the fcrotum, occupies the whole of it equally. As there are other difeafes with which this variety of hydrocele is fometimes confounded, it is particularly neceffary to hold fuch circumllaiices in view, a$ moft certainly tend to charadterize and diftinguifli It. Thefe difeafes are, all the varieties of fcrotal hernlae ; the anafar- CQus hydrocele of the fcrotum; the en- cyfled hydrocele of the fpermatic cord; the farcocele, or fchirrous tefticle; and the hernia humoralis, or inflamed telUs. Ip the hydrocele of the tunica vagina- lis, the tumor begins at the bottom of the fcrotum, and proceeds flo^yly upwards. It isS6(S. III. On the Hydrocele. 413 is of a fmooth equal furface. In a great proportion of cafes the fpermatic cord is readily felt at the upper part of It, and the fludluation of a fluid is dlftinguiflied through Its whole extent. Preflhre does not make the fwelling recede, nor is it af- fedted by the pofture of the patient, if it be not on its very firfl: approach ^ where- as, in hernia, befldes pain, ficknefs, and other affedtions of the ftomach and bowels which commonly take place, the tumor be- gins in the groin, and only at lafl: proceeds to the fcrotum. It has not the pyramidal form of a hydrocele. It Is frequently foft and compreflible, giving a fenfation fimi- lar to what we receive from prelTure upon doughy but no equal or dlftindl fluctuation is perceived in it. In mofl: inftances, the tumor can be made to recede, either alto- gether or in part, by moderate preflure, and putting the patient in a horizontal pofture ^ and in hernia defcending to the fcrotum, the fpermatic cord caa never be clearly dlftinguiflied. Cc3 However414 On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV. However improbable it may appear, this variety of hydrocele has, in fome in- ftances been confounded with the anafar- cous tumor of the fcrotum^ but the means of diftindrion are fo evident, from the hi- ftory given above of the two difeafes, that it is not here neceflary to enter farther upon th6 fubjed. It muft, indeed, be grofs inattention only that can ever make the anafarcous hydrocele be miftaken for any other difeafe. From the encyfted hydrocele of the fpermatic cord, it may commonly be di- ftinguifhed by the tetticle In the latter be- ing plainly felt at the under part of the tumor^ whereas, in this difeafe, the teftis is feldom diftindly perceived if it be not at the back part of the tumor. In two cafes, I have met with the tefticle on the ante- rior part of a hydrocele ; and, in a third, although fixed behind in its ufual fitua- tion, it alfo adhered at one point to the middle and anterior part of the tunica va- ginalis. This I fufpeded to be the effedt of inflammation, induced either by hernia 3 ' humeralis.SecS. III. On the Hydrocele. 415 humeralis or fome other difeafe. On in- quiry, it appeared that the patient at one time had been long confined with inflam- mation of this tellicle, the effedl of a bruife. In the encyfted hydrocele of the cord, the tumor firfl appears above the tefticle, and by degrees falls downwards; while we meet with the reverfe in the hydro- cele of the tunica vaginalis, in which the tumor at firfl: always forms below, and from thence proceeds upwards. In a few cafes we find thefe two varie- ties of hydrocele exifting at the fame time in the fame patient. In this cafe the fe- rum, although colle(fled in two diftind: cyfts, gives the appearance of one uni- form tumor j and a fluduation is diftind- ly felt from one end of it to the other. But, in any inllance that I have feen of this combination, the tumor has been fomewhat contraded, having rather a lefs diameter at that part where the two col- ledions are feparated from each other 5 fo that, where this appearance takes place, C c 4 we4i6 On tbt Hydrocele. Chap* XXIV* we may, In general, fufped: that the fe- rum is colleded in two diftindl bags. This is not always indeed the cafe, for occa- fionally I have met with it where the dif- eafe was fixed in the tunica vaginalis a- lone. The circumftances which moft clearly diftinguifli hydrocele from a fchirrous tef- ticle are thefe : In the latter the fwelling is hard; it does not yield in any degree to preflure; the furface of the tumor is commonly rough and unequal; it is in general attended with a good deal of pain, and is always heavy in proportion to its iize: Whereas, in hydrocele, the fwel- ling commonly yields to preflure; its fur • face is fmooth \ little or no pain takes place; and the tumor is light in propor- tion to its bulk. Thefe differences will always ferve as a fufficient means of diflindlion between this fpecies of hydrocele and a pure un- mlxed farcocele. But when a fchirrous teflicle is combined with an effufion of water into the tunica vaginalis, forming whatSe<ft. III. On the Hydrocele* 4?7 what has very properly been termed a hy- dro-farcocele, the means of diftinSion are not fo obvious. In the incipient ftate of thefe efFufions, the difference between the two difeafes is fufficiently apparent ^ but, when far advanced, the moft atten- tive obferver often finds it difficult, and fometimes impoffible to mark the diflinc- tion. In fuch doubtful cafes, however, by proceeding in the cautious manner to be afterwards pointed out, no detriment will occur to the patient, from any un- certainty that may take place. From the hernia humeralis, this fpecies of hydrocele is eafily diftinguifhed. In the former the tumor fiicceeds either im- mediately to fome external bruife, or it is evidently the confequence of a gonorr- hoea, or of fome other inflammatory affec- tion of the urethra The fkin is more or * The operation of lithotomy is frequently attended with an inflammation of one, and fometimes of both of the teflicles; probably from the inflammation induced by the operation in the' neighbourhood of the caput gallina- ginis, being communicated along the vas deferens to the teftes,4i8 0?i the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV. or lefs afFedled with an inflammatory red- nefs ^ it is attended with a confiderable degree of pain, efpecially on handling, and the fwelling is hard and firm, fo that no fludliiation is felt in it, unlefs in its more advanced ftate, when fuppuration fometimes, although rarely, takes place between the fcrotura and teflicle; in which cafe the ufual fymptoms of abfcefs, parti- cularly the pointing of the tumor, and its being much difcoloured, ferve to diflin- guifh it. In forming a prognofis of this dif- eafe, we muft be chiefly diredted by the habit of body of the patient. In a great proportion of cafes we are to con- fider it as a local affedtion ^ and, in this ftate, the moft favourable expectations may be formed of the event: For, what- ever may have been alleged by fome, of the hazard of every operation for a radi- cal cure, in a fimple unmixed hydrocele, if the conftitutlon is not very unhealthy, it may at all times be advifed with a ve- ry fair profpedl of fuccefs. InSe6t. III. On the Hydrocele, 419 In the radical cure of the hydrocele, in whatever way it is attempted, fome pain will be excited ; the parts will in- flame, and of courfe fome degree of fever will take place. In fome inftances, thefe fymptoms have gone rather farther than was wiflied for 3 but, under the limita- tions I have mentioned, of an unmixed ilate of the difeafe, in a conflitution other- wife healthy, the operation fliall pre- fently defcribe, when properly performed, never fails of the mofl: complete fuccefs, while, in no inftance, has it ever, in the courfe of my experience, proved fatal. But, on the contrary, in conftitutions otherwife difeafed, in veyy aged people, and in infirm habits of body, we are by no means to expedi fuch certain fuccefs : Even in fuch circumftances, however, the operation often fucceeds. I have, in va- rious inftances, performed it under one or other of thefe difadvantages, and I never knew it fail. Others, however, have found that it has done fo : x\nd it may readily be fuppofed, when pradtifed upon the old, > infirm,420 On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV. infirm, and difeafed, that the fymptoma- tic fever may run too high for the ftrength of the patient; and that the fuppuration produced by a high degree of inflamma- tion, may afterwards tend to deftroy the remains of a conftitution already greatly impaired. This, however, fliould not be laid to the account of the operation, but to the impropriety on the part of the fur- geon, in advifing it in patients already perhaps in danger with other difeafes. In fuch circumftances, no operation fhould be perforrned, and the patient fliould be defired to trufl: entirely to a proper ufe of the fufpenfory bandage. In judging therefore of the event of a hydrocele, I would fay, that in conflitu- tions fuch as the operation fliould be ad- vifed in, fcarcely any danger is to be dreaded ^ while, on the contrary,, in the infirm, and efpecially in fuch as are other- wife unhealthy, that fome rifk will occur from any operation that we can advife, and that the degree of rifk will be nearly in proportion to the nature and extent of thatSe£t. III. On the Hydrocele, 421 that difeafe with which the conftitutlon is affedted. As long as a hydrocele keeps within moderate limits, patients, in general, ra- ther fubmit tathe inconvenience than un- dergo the pain of an operation; at leaft this is commonly the cafe with people of rank, who can more readily fubmit to any diftrefs which it excites, than patients of a poorer clafs, whofe labour is frequently impeded by the fize of the tumor. At laft, however, by its bulk, it excites in all a ftrong defire to have it removed; for, be- fides the defire naturally implanted in all to be found and entire in thefe parts, the water colledled in a hydrocele, is, in fome inflances, fo very confiderable, as to be the caufe of much inconvenience. When, from timidity, or any other caufe, the operation has been too long delayed, I have known the tumor become fo large, as laterally to cover a confiderable part of each thigh, and extend in length from the groin to the knee. Various422 On the Hydrocele^ Chap. XXIV, Various methods have been propofed for the cure of hydrocele. All of thefe, how- ever^ may be reduced to two general heads : Such as have in view only a tem- porary relief, and which is therefore termed the palliative cure ; atid fiich as are meant to efFedl a radical cure, or a final removal of the difeafe. Whatever advantages may be experi- enced from the ufe of internal medicines, in dropfical affedlions of the conftitution, no praclitioner, I believe, has fo much confidence in remedies of this clafs, as" to exped: much advantage from them in enCyfted ^dropfy of any kind. W^e have daily proofs of their failure in partiaL hydropic colledions, wherever they are feated, and in none do they prove more ineffedual than in the hydrocele. We are told, indeed, of this difeafe be- ing cured by dififerent medicine's, particu- larly by the ufe of draftic purgatives3 but, although I have often known them em- ployed, it was never with any advantage,> jind, when pufhed to any extent, they are fure423 Sedt. III. On the Hydrocele. fure to do harm. As it is always proper, however, to confine the patient to bed for fome time after any operation of im- portance, in order to prevent his being afterwards difturbed, his bowels fliould be emptied by a purge immediately be- fore any operation for the radical cure of a hydrocele is performed; but this is al- moft the only way in which purgatives can here prove ufeful. Internal medi- cines, therefore, being found ineffedlual, and we know of no external applications to be depended upon, we are to feek for that relief from furgery which experi- ence fhows it never fails to afford. When the tumar in the ferotum has be- come fo large as to be inconvenient from its fize, if the patient either refufes to fubmit to the operation for. a radical cure, or if his ftate of health renders that ope- ration improper, in fuch circumflances, the palliative treatment, or a mere eva- cuation of the water by pundture, is the only means we can employ. Two424 On ihe Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV. Two methods are propofed for draw- ing off the water in this manner; by the pnnSure of a lancet, and piercing with a trocar. By feme it is alleged, that by the pnneSure of a lancet the water can neither be fo completely or fo properly drawn off as when the trocar is employ- ed ; for the orifice in the fkin being apt to recede from the opening in the vagi- nal coat, the water is thereby either ftopt altogether, or is apt to infinuate into the fiirrounding parts. By others again, it is faid, that the difficulty of introducing the trocar is fuch as to render it hazar- dous from the contiguity of the teilicle ^ and inftances are not wanting to Ihow, that, even in the hands of expert fur- geons, the teftis has been much injured by a trocar reaching it in this operation. Indeed the ordinary triangular form of this mfirim^^ent makes it both difficult and unfafe to introduce it ^ but the trocar, of a flat foriuj an improvement which I pro- pofed a good many years ago, enters with as 3Sed:. III. On the Hydrocele. 425 as much cafe as a lancet. This Inftru- ment is reprefented in Plate LIX. fig. 4. ^ and in Plate LVIII. fig. 2. another form of the trocar is delineated : With either of thefe^ an opening may be made into the tunica vaginalis with perfect fafety, and the water with this inftrument being much more freely drawn off than with a lancet, by which efiTufions are often produced into the cellular filbftance of the fcro- tum, the mode of doing it by the lancet fliould therefore be laid afide? The inftrument being fixed upon, the next point of importance is the part of the tumor in which the pundture ftiould be made. Jiven in this fimple operation, an acquaintance with the anatomy of the parts will appear to be neceflary. The teftes, as I have endeavoured to ftiow, do not hang loofe in their vaginal coats 3 on the contrary, they are firmly attached to them behind. Hence at this part, even in the largeft hydrocele, no fluid is met with p fo that if, through ignorance or inattention, the trocar fliould be inferted Vql. IV. ‘ D d here,426 On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV. here, one inftance of which I have feen, the inftrument would pierce the body of the teftis, while it would not leflen the tumor, as it would not reach the cavity of the vaginal coat in which the fluid is collected. The inftrument fliould be in- troduced in the anterior and moft depend- ing part of the tumor. The patient being feated in a chair, or on a table, with the fcrotum hanging over the edge of it, the operator, with his left hand, 111ould grafp the tumor behind in fuch a manner as to pufh the contained fluid as much as poflible into the anterior and under part of it. This being done, if a common round trocar is ufed, a fmall opening about a quarter of an inch in length fliould be made through the fldn, with the flioulder of a lancet, on that point where the trocar is to enters but where a flat trocar is to be ufed, this pre- caution of previoufly dividing the Ikin is unneceiTary. The operator now takes the trocar in his right hand, and having fix- ed the head of it in the palm of his hand, heSed. III. On the Hydrocele. 427 he places the forefinger along the courfe of it, leaving as mu(^ of the point of the -inflrurtient uncovered as may freely pene- trate the tunica vaginalis ; and this being puflied in, the ftilette fliould be with- drawn immediately on the end of the ca- nula having,entered the cyft. The water will now run off; and, if the tumor is not uncommonly large, it may be all drawn off at once; but v/hen the fwelling is large, as the hidden difbharge of the fluid, by taking away too quickly the flip- port which it gave to the veflels of the teflis and vaginal coat, might endanger the rupture of fome of them, it is better from time to time to flop the flow of it V for a few feconds; and when the whole is thus evacuated, and the canula with- drawn, a piece of adhefive plafter fliould be immediately applied to the orifice^ and a comprefs of foft linen being laid over the fcrptum, the whole fliould be firmly fupported, either with a well adapt- D d 2 ed428 On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV, ed fufpenfory, or a proper application of the T bandage The patient being in this ftate laid in bed, all kind of uneafinefs is, in a few minutes, commonly gone, and he goes a- bout his ordinary bufinefs without inter- ruption. In a few inftances, however, it has happened, either from the external air finding accefs to the teflicle, or from the fore produced by the trocar becoming inflamed, that the whole body of the tef- ticle has been feized with inflammation, by which a radical cure of the difeafe has been obtained. This, however, is a rare occurrence, and hardly to be look^ ed for. About four years ago, the public wa^ favoured with fome obfervatipns on thi§ difeafe by Mr Keate of London, in whidi fome cafes are related of hydrocele be- ing ^ Some very judicious remarks, on the importance of a due compreffion in fuch cafes, may be met with in remarks upon this fubjecf, in the works of the late Dr Monro.On the Hydroceki 4^9 se<a. III. ing cured by the external life of a ftimu- lating application, a ftrong folution of fal ammoniac in vinegar and fpirit of wine. The following is the formula employed by Mr Keate: Sal. ammoniac, in pulv. trit. § i. Acet. fpirit; vin. re6l. fing. § iv; A quantity of foft old linen, well moifleii- ed in this, is defired to be folded round the fcrotum, to be fupported with a fuf- penfory bag, and renewed three times a day 5 Butj although I have given this me- thod a fair trial in upwards of twenty ca- fes, in feme while the cyfl remained dif- tended, and in others immediately after the water was drawn off, I have never been fo fortunate as to fucceed. In fome, the application of different flimulants and aftringents after the operation of tapping, has appeared to prevent the collection from returning fo quickly as it otherwife might have done > but even this has not D d 3 beeri430 On the Hydroaele. Chap. XXIV:. been frequent, and in no Inftanee, in the courfe of my obfervation, has it producecJ a cure. With the fame view,^^ I have employed a variety of ftimulants and aftringents,. fuch as a volatile liniment^ prepared with fix parts of oil, one of camphor, and one of fpirit of hartfliorn y tind:ure of can- tharides 3 the fleams of vinegar; poulti- ces of vinegar and crumb of bread; and comprefles of linen, foaked in brandy: and the practice being neither attended with difficulty or hazard, I mean to con- tinue it till farther experience fhows, whe- ther it fliould be retained or not. That it will often prove fuccefsful in removing a hydrocele, by promoting the abforption of the fluid contained in the tunica va^ ginalis, is fcarcely to be expedled; but we may reafonably fuppofe, that ftimula- ting applications, capable of exciting in- flammation in the teftes, may accomplifh a cure, after the water has been drawn off with a trocar^ Drawing431 Sed. III. On the Hydrocele. Drawing ofF the water with a trocar, is an operation eafily performed, and it Very feldom does harm; but when not performed with caution, and efpecially when the patient is allowed to go about foon after the water Is taken away, it fometimes ends in very troublefome fymp- toms. If the patient’s habit of body is bad, this will happen with whatever at- tention it may be done. Of this every praditioner may have met with inftances ^ and two are related by Mr Pott, one of which terminated fatally, and gangrene enfued in the other, which, in a few days, deftroyed not only a good deal of the ferotum, but even a confiderable portion of the tunica vaginalis Both of thefe, indeed, occurred in very unhealthy con- ftitutions ^ but It is proper to have It known, that even this operation may, in certain habits of body, be produdive of very dlf- trefsful confequences. D d 4 Drawing ♦ Cafes xxL and xxii. Treatife on the Hydrocele,^ V 432 On the Hydrocele. ChaptfXXI'^^ Drawing the water ofF in this manner,^ in order to relieve the patient from the bulk and weight which it produced, would probably be the firfl: idea that occurred to praditioners in the treatment of the hy- drocele ; but being found inadequate to the complete removal of the difeafe, va- rious other methods were afterwards in- troduced. The adual cautery, and the ligature, were both propofed as means of preventing farther defcents of water from the abdomen, which, iti former times, was confidered as the origin of this dif- eafe. Celfus advifes the cyfh of a hydro- cele to be cut away, and many of his fol- lowers do the fame. Tents, both folid and hollow, were afterwards employed 3 as was likewife the ufe of the feton, which we find recommended by Fabricius ab A- quapendente, and other waiters, even of a more early period. Various applications,- of the cauftic kind, have at different times been in vogues Injecting wine, diluted ardent fpirits, and other irritating liquids,, into an opening in the vaginal coat, has. beenSe6l. III. On the Hydrocele. 43^ I ^ ' part been propofed, as a means of inducing a degree of inflammation fufficient for ef- feding a radical cure ^ and a Ample in- cilion of the cyfl, containing the water, has been pradifed for the fame purpofe. Thefe are the means which, at different periods, have been employed for the cure of the hydrocele. Ancient praditioners feem to have been acquainted with all of themj but having very inaccurate ideas of the anatomy of the parts concerned, they could not have any fixed or clear opinion of the manner in which any of their remedies adled in effeding a cure.! In confequence of this, they were appli- ed at random 3 and none of them proving at all times fuccefsful, the Ignorance they laboured under in the theory of the dif- eafe, made them frequently propofe va- rieties in the method of cure. The moderns poflefs one important ad- vantage over the ancients, from knowing that the water in hydrocele is contain- ed in a particular cyft, which has no immediate communication with any otheryf;. 434 On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV^ part or cavity of the body, and from find- ing that this difeafe refembles, in many refpefts, other encyfted tumors, with the means of curing which they are well ac-^ quainted. In both fituations, the contents of the tumor are fecluded from accefs to the ex-^ ternal air. Neither of them have any communication with any other part of the body; and, although the bag con- taining the matter of an encylled tumor, is, in fome meafure, a new formation, yet^ in many inftances, it is found to be equal- ly firm and elaftic with the tunica vagi- nalis teftis. In the treatment of encyfted tumors, praditioners are now agreed, that, be- fides evacuating the matter, means muft be employed for deftroying the cavity which contained it, otherwife a return of the colledion may be looked for. To ac- complifh this, different methods have been propofed; fome with a view to deftroy en- tirely the cyft which contained the mat« ter,435 On the Hydrocele. Sea, III. ter, and others, as it Is faid, to fill‘up the cavity, by a formation of new parts. But we know, that unlefs the coats of a cyft are much extended, hard, or great- ly thickened indeed, that no part of it fhould be removed. It is alfo known, that to fill up the cavities of tumors with a formation of new parts, Is a mere imagi- nary matter, being what neither nature or art can do to any extent ^ and we like- wife know, that the cavity of every tu- mor may be more effedlually deflroyed by producing an adhefion of its fides, than by any other means. Parts of the human body. In a ftate of inflammation, very readily adhere to each other. Indeed, fo eafily do they do fo, that fome art Is required to prevent the adhefion of contiguous inflamed parts, of which every praditioner muft have met with examples. Hence, abfcefles and en- cyfted tumors are more eafily cured by exciting inflammation over their internal furfaces, after their contents are evacu- ated, than by any other means: and^ in I like43^ On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXI^i like manner, it h now known, that the hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis may be treated upon the fame principles, and with the fame general effeds. This is the moft fimple ddea that can be given of the prefent views of pradi^ tioners, in the treatment of this difeafe ; and I hope it will ferve to render their ideas, refpeding it^ fufEciently clear. The intention, then; of every means now in ufe^ for the radical cure of this fpecies of hydrocele, is, to induce fuch a degree of inflammation on the parts in which it is feated, as may tend to oblite- rate entirely the cavity of the tunica va- ginalis, by making it adhere firmly to the tunica albuginea the furface of the tef- tide* Some individuals, indeed, flill proceed upon the fiippofition of a total dellrudion of the fac being necelTary for a complete cure. But the extenfive experience of many of the befl employed furgeons^, makes it evident that this is not the cafe.^ When the fac has become unufually thick orSeft. III. On the Hydrocele, 437 or hard, It proves fometimes ufeful to re- move thofe parts of it that are moft par- ticularly difeafed ^ and when it has been diftended to- fiich a degree as entirely to have loft Its tone, removing a part of it may forward the cure, hy allowing the fcrotum to contract more readily; but It happens fo feldom from any of thefe cau- fes, that I have only met with three in- ftances, in which It appeared neceffary to remove any part of it. A cure may indeed be obtained of this variety of hy- drocele, by removing the fac entirely; for the contiguous parts from which it is cut away, readily adhere together, fo as to deftroy the cavity in which the^ fluid was contained ^ but what I wilh to have underftood, is, that we are not to confider it as neceflary, as the fame end may be obtained by much more lenient meafures. I fliall now proceed to {peak more par- ticularly of the feveral means at prefent moft frequently employed by pra<ftitioners fqx effeding a cure, and lhall treat moft minutely*43^ On the Hydrocele^ Chap, XXIV, minutely of thofe now in general life, Thefe are, excifion of the tunica vagina- lis; the application of cauftic; the ufe of a feton; a limple incifion of the fac ; and injeding wine and other acrid li-. quors into the tunica vaginalis, after drawing oif the fluid which it con- tained. The method of cure, by removing the vaginal coat, which was well known to the ancients, had nearly fallen into dif-, ufe, when it was revived by the late Mr Douglas of London; and by a few prac- titioners it is fl:iH continued. The me- thod of doing it is, firfl to difled out an oval piece of the fcrotum, which Mr Douglas conliders as always necelTary; and having then laid the vaginal coat open, to cut it away by different fnips of a pair of fciffars. But, whoever may con- tinue to think favourably of the excifion of the fac, will find, that it may be more eafily diffeded away with a fcalpel than with fciflars; and it can feldom or never439 Sea. IIL On the Hydrocele. be necefTary to remove any portion of the fcrotum. As much danger might enfue from the incifioii being carried too near to the tef- ticle, all the pofterior part of the fac, or that part of it by which the tefticle is conneded to the fcrotum, fliould be al- lowed to remain. On the fac being re- moved, the parts mufl: be drelled, and treated in every other refped, in the fame manner as in the operation with the fimple incilion, to be hereafter defcri- bed. The cure by cauftic has commonly been conduded as follows : The fcrotum being fhaved, a piece of common pafte cauftic, properly fecured with adhefive plafter, is applied, of about a finger’s breadth, the whole length of the tumor ^ and if, on removing the cauftic, it has not penetra- ted the tunica vaginalis, an opening Is made in it with a fcalpel, fo as to evacu- ate the contents, lay bare the tefticle, and admit of proper drelfings. But440 On the itydrocele. Chap, XXIV^ But Mr Elfe, one of the lateft writers in favour of the method of cure by cau- ftic, fays, that there is no neceflity for fuch an extenfive application of cauftic as many have recommended ; that an ef- char, of the fize of a fhilling, is fuffi- cient 3 that this may be always fully ob- tained by the application of cauftiq pafte, of the fize of a fixpence, which he di- rects to be laid upon the anterior and un- der point of the fcrotum, and to be pro- perly fecured by adhefive plafter, in or- der to prevent it from fpreading The cauflic commonly produces all its elFecSs in the fpace of five or fix hours, and may then be removed. At this time, dlgeftives, or an emollient poultice, muft be applied over the fcrotum; and the whole properly fufpended with a ban- dage. Inflammation, MrElfe obferves, is foon induced over the whole tunica vaginalis ; and * Vide An EfTay on the cure of the hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis teftis, by Mr Elfe, 2d edit. p. 33»Sed. III. On the Hydrocele. 441 and the febrile fymptoms that fucceed, he advifes to be kept moderate by bloods letting, injedions,emollient poultices, and a low regimen. In a few days, the ef- char of the fcrotum feparates, and comes away ; and, in a gradual manner, in the courfe of four, five, or fix weeks, the whole tunica vaginalis comes off, when the wound, for the moft part, foon heals, ^and a complete cure is obtained. In the cure of the hydrocele by the fe- ton, the fallowing is the method of ap- plying it, as advifed by the late Mr Pott, who wrote a full and ingenious treatife on the fubjed : He ufed a trocar^ a fil- ver canula, five inches in length, and of fuch a diameter as to pafs eafily through the canula of the trocar^ and a probe, fix inches and a half long, having, at one end, a fine fteel trocar-point, and at the other,'an eye, which carries a cord of coarfe white fewing filk, of fuch a thick- nefs as to pafs eafily through the long ca- nula. With the trocar, the inferior and anterior point of the tumor is to be pier- VoL. V. E e ced;442 On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV. ced; and, as foon as the perforator is withdrawn, and the water difcharged, the feton canula is pafled through that of the trocar, till it reaches the upper part of the tunica vaginalis, and can be felt in the fupcrior part of the fcrotum. This being done, the probe, armed with its fe- ton, is to be conveyed through thfe latter canula, the vaginal coat and teguments to be pierced with the point of it, and the feton to be drawn through the canula^ till a fufficient quantity is brought out at the upper orifice, when both canulas are to be withdrawn, and the operation is fi- nifhed. About the end of the third day, the parts begin to inflame 3 when fomenta- tions, poultices, a fufpenfory bandage, a temperate regimen, and a lax belly, are ordered, to keep the fymptoms moderate. As foon as the parts become eafy, by the inflammation leflening, which is general- ly about the tenth or twelfth day, the fe-^ ton is begun to be diminiflied, when fix or eight threads are withdrawn at every 2 dreflingSed. ili. On the Hydrocele. ^ 443 dreffing; the dreffings, confiding of no- thing more than a fuperficial pledgit up- on each orifice, and a difcutient cerate, fuch as the ceratum faturninum, to cover the fcrotum. In the treatment of the hydrocele with a feton, I fliould wifli to follow Mr Pott’s method in every circumftance, but the mode of introducing it, which is render- ed unnecelTarily complex, by the number of inftruments that he employs. In Chap - ter I. I have defcribed the manner of opening abfcefles with k feton, and the diredions then given prove equally ap--, plicable here* Let an opening be fnade with a fcalpel, 'a large lancet, or fliarp-pointed biftoury, in the fuperior part of the tumor, large enough to admit, with eafe, a cord, con- fifting of about thirty threads of common white fewing filk* A diredor, with an eye at one end, Plate LXVII. fig. ‘3. in which the cord is inferted, is to be introduced at thi^ E e 2 openings444 Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV. opening;; and its farther extremity being carried down to the mod depending part of the tumor, an opening is there to be made, of about half an inch in length, by cutting upon the diredlor with the bi- ftoury. The director being now drawn down, till a fufficient quantity of filk is left hanging out below, the operation is in this manner finilhed. In every other refpedl, the management of the feton lliould be the fame with the method de- fcrlbed above from Mr Pott; or, inftead of introducing the cord with a director, it may be done with a filver canula and perforator, reprefented in Plate LXVII. ' fig. I. 2. and 4. By making the firft ^opening in the up-* per part of the tumor, the inftrument conducing the feton is more eafily intro- duced along the^eourfe of it, than when the firfl: opening is made below; for, in this cafe, the tumor remains diftended to the laft : whereas, when opened below, the contents rufli out immediately; and the* Se<3:. III. On the Hydrocele, 445 the vaginal coat collapfes fo much about the tefticle, that I have feen a good deal of difficulty in getting the inftrument in- linuated between them, by which the te- ftis has, in different inftances, been inju- red ; and, by making the under opening half an inch long, any matter which forms in the courfe of the cure is eafily and readily difcharged: whereas, in Mr Pott’s method of operating, where the opening is not larger than the fize of the trocar, as this is completely filled by the cord, the matter is thereby allowed to colledl ], an incifion becomes neceffary, to difcharge it; and thus the patient is expofed to pain and difappointment, as I have feen in various inftances, where the precaution I have mentioned has been omitted, of making the opening at the moft depending part of the tumor fuffi- ciently large for difcharging any matter that may form. Before entering farther into the conft- deration of the method of cure^by the fe- E e 3 toiij44^ On the Hydrocele. Ch^p. XXIV, ton, I fhall proceed to dcfcribe the ope- ration for a radical cure, by incifion. The patient being laid upon a table of convenient height, and properly fecured by affiftants, with the fcrotum lying near- ly on the edge of the table, the operator, with one hand, fiiould grafp the tumor behind, fo as to hold it firm, and make it fomewhat tenfe on the anterior part of it: With a common round-edged fcalpel in the other, he ftioi^ld now divide the external teguments by one continued in- cifion ^from the upper end of the tumor, all along its anterior furface, down to the moft depending point of it. If the incifion has been properly made, the divided fcrotum will retrad:, and the tunica vaginalis will be laid bare, for thd breadth of about half an inch, from one end to the other. An opening is now to be made in the vaginal coat, with a lan- cet, or fharp-pointed bifioury, jufl at the upper end of the tumor, where the firfl: incifion commenced. This opening Ihould be of fuch a lize, as freely to receiye the447 Seft. III. On the Hydrocele. finger of the operator; which, being In- ferted, a probe-pointed bifloury Is to be conducted upon it, and the fac divided to the very bottom, direftly in the courfe of the firfl: incifion. By the previous divifion of the fkin, with the fcalpel inftead of the bifloury, the operation is done with more accuracy, and lefs pain 3 for the fcalpel, from its convexity, admits of a finer edge than an inftrument of any other form is capable of receiving, and hence it cuts with more eafe. By making the incifion of the tegu^ ments and tunica vaginalis together, as in fome iiillances I have feen done, the operation may be fomewhat fhortened; but the time gained by it is not more than two or three feconds, while the incifion is apt to be ragged and unequal: for when done in this manner, particularly when the opening is made at the under extremity of the tumor, as fome have ad- vlfed, the parts cannot be kept fufficient- Jy tenfe during the time of making it. E e 4 I44^ On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV, I have defired that the'firft opening In the vaginal coat may be fo large, as eafi- ly to receive the finger of the operator, which ought to be puflied in behind the bifioury, without withdrawing the in- ftrument, as is commonly done* In this manner, we fliorten the operation, and, by giving a free vent to the fluid con- tained in the fac, we prevent it from fpreading and forming vefications in the cellular fubftance of the Paginal coat, and contiguous parts, as it is apt to do when the opening In the fac Is too fmall. By making the firfl: opening in the upper end of the fac, much trouble and incon- venience is prevented, which always oc- cur from making it below. For, as I have before remarked, when the tumor is firfl, opened below, the water is in- ftantly difcharged ^ and, as this" is fol- lowed by an immediate collapfe of the tunica vaginalis, the direction in which it lliould be cut is not afterwards eafily dlfcovered : whereas, by making the firfl opening above, as the water is thereby graduallySed. III. Oti the Hydrocele. ^ 449 gradually emptied as the opening is car- ried downwards, the vaginal coat con- tinues diftended at the bottom, till the operation is finifhed. ^ ^ With a view to fave fome pain to the patient, the late Mr Hunter advifed the incifion both of the fcrotum and tunica vaginalis, to be only two-thirds of the length of the tumor 3 and others have thought even that one half of this is fu£- ficient. But the difference of pain be- tween incifions of thefe different lengths is inconfiderable, and not to be regarded when compared with the effects that re- fult from them. When the incifion is carried the full length of the tumor, the operation will fucceed, perhaps, in every inflance, if the fubfequent part of the treatment meets with due attention y w^hereas, I have known various inflances of thefe partial openings being followed with a return of the difeafe. It is particularly proper to carry the incifion of the tunica vaginalis, down to |he moft depending point of the tumo;* y ‘ otherwife.45^ the Hydrocele. Chap, XXIV. otherwife, in the firfl: inftance, the con- tents of the fac will not be completely difcharged, while room will be given for colledlons of matter during the cure. It is alfo proper to remark, in making this incifion of th^ fac, that it ought to termi- nate at fome diftance from the teftis; for I have, in different inftances, obferved, w^here the vaginal coat has been divided near to the tefticle, that the Inflammation was particularly fevere., The incifion being completed, the te- fticle, covered with its tunica albugina, is brought fully in view. In fome in- fiances the teftis protrudes from the fur- rounding parts ^ in which cafe, it fliould be Immediately replaced, and covered as quickly as poffible from the air 3 and if no part of the tunica vaginalis is to be removed, the dreffing may be finiflied di- reftly on the fac being opened. Unlefs the fac is difeafed, or fo much diftended as entirely to have loft its tone, no part of It, as I have obferved above, fliould be removed : but when hardened toSe£l. III. On the Hydrocele^ 451 to the firmnefs of cartilage, as I have more than once feen, as, in this ftate, it is apt to excite pain when applied to the tender furface of the teftis, it ought to be removed ^ and as, in this ftate, it com- monly feparates with eafe from the fur- rpunding cellular fubftance, it is eafily and quickly cut away with a fcalpel or biftoury. The removal of any portion of the fac from the mere enlargement of the tumor, can feldom be neceflary ^ not once in fifty inftances. Hitherto we have been fuppofing that the difeafe is confined to one fide of the fcrotum; but, in fome inftances, as I have remarked, above, we meet with a hydro- cele in both fides at once. In this cafe, the common pradlice is, to do the opera- tion twice in all its parts, both in the fcrotum and tunica vaginalis, by laying each colledlion open, from top to bottom, by a double incifion. Some advife both operations to be done at the fame time; but, in general, practitioners are afraid of too much inflammation being induced452 On the Hydrocele* Chap. XXIV. by this 3 fo that one fide is commonly al- lowed to heal before the other is opened. In this manner, the patient is expofed to delay, uncertainty, and to the confine- ment, the confequence of two operations. This, however, is not iiecefTary, as the operation may be done on both fides at once, with little more pain, and, fo far as 1 have feen, with no more hazard, than in the ufual method of doing them fepa- rately. The method in which I have done it is this : After finifhing the operation on one fide, an opening is made into the vaginal coat of the oppofite tefticle, at the upper end of it, through the feptum fcrotr^ and the incifion being carried down to the bottom of the tumor,' the cyft is thus equally well laid open,, the water is as completely evacuated, and the.difeafe is not more liable to return, than by doing the operation in the ufual manner, and at different times. Whether the hydrocele, is double, or confined to one fide, as foon as the inci- fion453 Se(5t. III. On the Hydrocele. fion is finiflied, if the teftis is found, the wound fliould be quickly dreffed 5 and, I think it right to obferve, that, on the manner in which this is done, much of the fuccefs of the operation at all times depends, more indeed than is commonly imagined. If the vaginal coat is merely wrapped about the teflicle, without the interpofi- tion of dreffings, or if the divided iides of it are immediately united with futures, as fome have advifed, partial adhelions are apt to take place, before a degree of inflammation is produced over the whole, fufficient for rendering the cure complete. In this manner, cavities are left, which either fill with pus during the cure, and require to be laid open, or they after- wards give rife to collections of water, and thus occafion a return of the difeafc, different inftances of which have fallen within my obfervation. And again, the pradtice of fluffing the cavity of the fore with dreffings, is alfo a frequent caufe of mifchief. By rubbing, or preffing upon the454 On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXlVo the furface of the teftis, fuch a degree of inflammation is fometimes induced, as excites much pain, inflammation, and fe- ver. But this is almofl: always the fault of the operator; for, in a great propor- tion of cafes, if the dreflings are proper-^ ly managed, no fymptoms of violence ever occur. After having tried various ways of drefling the parts, the method I have now long purfued, and which in no in- flance I have found to fail, is this: The tefticle being properly placed in the new- ly divided fac, two pieces of foft old linen, exadtly the length of the cut, pre- vioufly dipped in a liniment of wax and oil, are by the help of a probe, inferred to the bottom of the fac, one on each fide of the tefticle, between it and the vaginal coat, care being taken to leave a fiifficlent quantity of each pledgit hang- ing out of the wmund, to admit of its be- ing eafily withdrawn at the firft or fecond dreflings otherwife, if the fwelling, which afterwards takes place, fliall be confider- able,Se<3:. III. On the Hydrocele. 455 able, they may, for feme days, be entire- ly covered, and even at laft removed with difficulty, as I have feen in different in- ftances where this piece of attention has been omitted. If the tefticle has puflied forward, and is with difficulty retained in its lituation, as it will be apt to flip out between the lips of the wound between one dreffing and another, no means fhould be omitted that can, with fafety, be employed for preventing it, as it cannot afterwards be fo eafily replaced 3 and, from want of at- tention to this, I have known the tefticle entirely extruded from the ferotum, and, in one inftance, from fufficient pains not being taken to replace it, the cure wasi completed with the teftis in this fituation^ when, inftead of being covered with the vaginal coat and ferotum, it was covered with fcarf Ikin only. The beft method of preventing fuch a misfortune, is, to draw the edges of the di- vided tunica vaginalis and ferotum near- ly together, after the teftis has been pro-45^ Hydrocele^ Chap. XXIV.' perly placed, and the pledgits of oiled li- nen inferted ; and, in this fituatlon, to fe- cure them, either with a couple of futures* at proper diftances from each other, or with flips of plafter, 'fufEciently adhefive for retaining them. This being done, the whole fcrotum Is covered with a large pledgit of faturnine cerate, or common wax ointment, by which the parts are kept much more foft and eafy, than when covered, in the ufual way, with dry lint, at the fame time that the dreflings are much more eafily remo- ved. A cufliion of foft tow, with a pro- per comprefs, is placed over the pledgit of ointment, and the whole are retained by the T bandage, or common fufpenfory bag. The patient is now carried to bed: A quieting draught fliould be given \ and he fliould be enjoined to remain as much as poflible in the fame pofture ^ for much motion at this period certainly does miC- chief. , The intention of this operation being to induce a moderate^degree of inflamma- tion457 Sed. IIL On the Hydrocele* tion in the tunica vaginalis and furface of the tefticle, if the pain, inflamnaation, and fwelling, which, in fome degree, al- ways fucceed, do not run to a great height, nothing is to be done for the firfl: two or three days after the operation ^ but, when thefe fymptoms become violent, and efpe- cially when much fever is induced, means muft be employed to leffen or remove them. The remedies we chiefly depend on, are, blood-letting, gentle laxatives, a low cooling diet, and warm emollient poul- tices and fomentations to the part, in or- der to forward a plentiful flippuration, which commonly tends to moderate eve- ry bad fymptom more effedually than any other remedy. By thefe means, the inflammation is eafily kept within proper bounds y but where the mode of 4i'^fling I have pointed out is adopted, they will very rarely be required. In upwards of fifty cafes, in which I have done the ope- ration in this manner, I have only once VoL. V. F f found458 On the Hydrocele. Chap, XXIV» found It neceflary to advife blood-letting, and very rarely fomentations or poultices^ In mofl; cafes, the inflammation of the tefticle does not rife higher than in the Ample hernia humoralis from gonorrhoea; and it gradually fubfides as the fuppura- tion advances. The abatement of the in- flammation is alfo aflifted by continuing a cool diet, the occafional ufe of opiates, and keeping the belly open. Often in two days, and always by the end of the third, I remove all the dref- flngs, except the pledgits inferted between the teftls and tunica vaginalis. This is one important advantage we derive from covering large fores with pledgits of oint- ment. The dreflings are eafily removed at any period ; fo that, without waiting for a plentiful fuppuration, as is common- ly done, Jthe patient may, at any time, be relieved from that diflrefsful uneafinefs, of which all thofe complain, in whom the firft dreflings are feveral days in being taken away. »They are always rendered flift and uncomfortable, by the blood dif- 2 charged^e6l. III. On the Hydrocele^ 459 charged upon them after the operation 3 and the matter at firft fecreted being thin and acrid, I have, in various inftances, feen, when the dreflings have not been removed for fix or feven days, and in fome cafes even in lefs, that the whole contiguous parts have been excoriated by the acrimony of the matter aione, and by which more uneafinefs has been induced during the courfe bf the cure, than by any circumflance connefted with the ope- ration: Nay, in fonie, the inflammation induced in this manner has an obvious influence on that of the tefllcle, and tends to render it much more fevere than it otherwife would be. On fome occafions, at the firfl; drefling, and always at the fecond or third, the pledgits inferted between the tunica vagi- nalis and teliicle come away 3 and when- ever this happens, they faould be renew- ed. It is alfd proper to renew them dai- ly, for the firfl: fourteen or fifteen days after the operation 3 not, however, of the F f 2 fame.460 On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV. fame depth as the firft, as, during the lat- ter part of the cure, it proves fufficient, If they are merely inferted fo far as to prevent the divided edges of the tunicfa vaginalis from adhering to the tefticle before the adhefive procefs has taken place in the parts more deeply feated. To this point, I mufl: obferve, the moft particular attention is neceflary ^ for, when this mode of operating fails, that is, when the difeafe returns, it is, almoft in every inftance, from this precaution be- ing overlooked. In my own pradice, the difeaXe has not returned in a fingle in- ftance ; but I have met with different cafes in which it has done fo, and in all from the caufe I have mentioned, to wit, the divided edges of the tunica vaginalis being allowed to adhere to the tefticle before adhefion had taken place between tlie parts more deeply feated. In almoft every circumftance, the treat- ment of hydrocele by this operation is the fame with what anfwers beft in a com- mon abfcefs. After opening an abfcefs, 3 ifSed^ III. On the Hydrotele. 461 if the lips of the newly .divided parts are allowed too early to adhere, either to each other, or to the parts beneath, the operation will moft probably fall to be renewed, as matter will j:hus be allowed to collect, by which the patient will be nearly in the fame fituation as before 3 while all manner of rilk of this is pre- vented, by the cut being kept open till the fides of the abfcefs adhere to each other. In like manner, we |never fail in the cure of hydrocele, if the external cut is kept open, not till the cavity of the tunica vaginalis fills up with granulations, as fome have imagined to he neceflary in this mode of operating, but merely till fuch a degree of inflammation is induced upon the tefticle and vaginal coat, as ter- minates in their adhefion to each other. _ This idea of the whole cavity of parts in this fituation being to fill with new granulations, has been held out by fome as an objedlion to this operation^ and as many believe that it actually happens, I have judged it proper to fpeak of it more f f 3 particularly462 ■ On the Hydrocele. Chap, XXIV, particularly than thofe will conlider as neceflary, who have been accuftomed to operate in this manner. No fuch procefs takes place; inftead of it, the tefticle and vaginal coat, foon after the opera- tion, become inflamed; till the fixth or feventh day, the inflammation continues gradually to increafe, till the whole tu- mor, as I have obferved above, has ac- quired the ufual fize and appearance of a common hernia humoralis from gonor- rhoea. About this period, the tunica va- ginalis is found to adhere to the teftis, over all the pofterior and lateral parts of the tumor, and on the flips of oiled linen being gradually leffened, and at lafl: with- drawn, by the fourteenth or fifteenth day, or foon thereafter, the adhefion becomes complete ; the tumor of the teftis gra- dually fubfides, and the fare produced by the cut, and now reduced to a line, heals in a fliorter or longer time, according to the habit of body, age, and other circum- ftances of the patient. In fome, the cure is complete in three weeks; I have known c it5ed:. III. On the Hydrocele. 463 it in lefs; while, in others, it runs on to the fourth, fifth, and, in a few cafes, to the fixth week. Having thus given an account of the different operations ufually employed for the radical cure of the hydrocele, I fliall now make a few obfervations on the com- parative advantages of the three laft, to wit, thofe by cauftic, the feton, and the fimple incifion; one or other of thefe be- ing now commonly pradifed for the re- moval of this difeafe. From the teflimony of many refpec- table authors of the efficacy of each of thefe, there is no reafon to doubt that any of them would, in mod inftances, prove ^ffedual^ that the cauftic, when properly managed, will, for the mod part fucceed, we have every reafon to believe 5 and the fame may be fafely af- ferted both of the feton, and the fimple incifion; but every praditloner being apt to be prejudiced in favours of a particu- lar method, he generally continues to pradife that mode, and no others and F f 4 finding46^4 Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV. finding that It commonly fucceeds, he by degrees comes to perfiiade himfelf, that other methods of cure, with which he has not had fuch opportunities of beco- ming acquainted, are liable to objedlons, which thofe who have pradtifed them do not find to be the cafe. I attended the hofpitals in London, about the time that Mr Pott’s publication on the feton^ and Mr Life’s treatife on the cure of the hydrocele by cauftic, were publlfiied; when, of courfe, the various means of curing the difeafe were frequent- ly the fubje£t of medical converfation. I was thereby Induced to pay much atten- tion to the fubjecS; and having the ad- vantage of feeing the pradlice of differ- ent hofpitals, and not being particular- ly biafled in favours of any particular method, I was thus furniflied with the beft opportunity that could be wiftied for of forming an opinion : And the refult of all the obfervation I was either at that time able to make, or fince that period, both in the hofpital here, and in private praftice,465 Sedl. III. On the Hydrocele. practice, Is, that although all the,three modes of operating, by cauftic, the feton, and fimple incifion, are perhaps equally capable of producing a radical cure ; yet, that of the three, the latter, to wit, the mode by the fimple incifion, is liable to feweft objedtions, and effeds a cure both with leaft trouble to the operator, and lead: rilk to the patient: And, of the other two, the treatment by cauftic ap- pears to me to be the beft. I have feenall the three produce trouble- fome fymptoms, fuch as, pain, and ten- fion of the abdomen, inflammation, and fever; but, from much obfervation, I can, without hefitation, fay, that the feton is more frequently produdive of thefe than either of the others: And we need not wonder at this being the cafe; for the cord which is here introduced, lying in clofe contad with the body of the teftis, muft neceflTarily occafion a confiderable and continued irritation, as long as it re- mains applied to it. The466 On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV. The feton is llkewife attended with other inconveniencies, to which neither of the others, when properly managed, are liable. When the inflammatioil, which fucceeds to the introduction of the cord, runs high, as it frequently does, it com- monly terminates in fuch a plentiful fup- puration, that the matter produced by it cannot be readily difcharged at the open- ing made for the feton. In confequence of this, it finds accefs to the neighbour- ing parts; and different abfcelfes are ac- cordingly formed, which muft all be dif- charged by as many openings. This may, in part, be obviated, by making the in- ferior opening of the fize I have direc- ted; but, in fome inftances, I have found even that this has not proved fufficient, owin^ to the opening being reduced in fize by the fwelling and inflammation of the tumor. Another objeClion to this operation, which I think of importance, is this: It does not admit of a free examination, ei- ther of the Hate of the tefticle, or of the fluidSeel. III. 4^7 On the Hydrocele. fluid contained In the fac. I know that, in a Ample uncomplicated hydrocele, the flate of the tefticle requires no examina- tion; nor would we think of removing it, either on account of .a mere enlarge- ment, or diminution of its fize, provided it is not otherwife difeafed. But we know well, that cafes fometimes occur, which elude the utmoft Ikill and penetration of the furgeon ; no diagnoftic fymptoms, with which we are yet acquainted, being fufheient to direct us with abfolute cer- tainty. The moft experienced praditioner will admit, that, at times, he has been miC- taken In his opinion refpeding the nature of fuch tumors ; a real farcocele, or fchlr- rous tefticle, attended with fome effufion of a fluid, being, in fome inftances, mi& taken for a pure unmixed hydrocele; and, vice verfa, a Ample uncomplicated cafe of hydrocele has been miftaken for, and treated as a fchirrous tefticle. Such oc- currences every praditioner muft have met with j and, among others, ‘Who con- fefs468 On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV. fefs their having been deceived In this manner, a very candid acknowledgment is made of it by Mr Pott ^ ; and Mr Elfe takes notice of a fimllar occurrence in which he was concerned. I have been concerned in different cafes, where the moft experienced furgeons were at a lofs to determine the real nature of the difeafe ; that is, whether the fwelling in the fcrotum was a fimple hydrocele of the vaginal coat, or an effiifion of a fluid into that bag produced by a fchirrous teflicle. In all fuch cafes of doubt, the furgeon fliould proceed as if the tumor was a real farcocele. If, on laying open the * Treatife on the hydrocele, p. 288. In this cafe, which, from every circumllance, had bee^ conlidered as a farcocele, the teftis, after being removed, was found to be perfectly found, the difeafe ibeing a real hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis. The mere poflibility of fuch an occurrence with fuch an attentive obferver as Mr Pott, ought to ferve as a moil convincing argument with practitioners of the ne- cefiity of proceeding with the utmoft caution in all fuoh cafes, where there is the leafl caufe for doubt.469 On the Hydrocele. Sea. III. the fwelling, the tefticle is found difeafed, that is, if it is in fuch a ftate as to re- quire extirpation, it fliould be removed immediately ^ while, on the contrary, if it appears to be found, he will treat it as a cafe of Ample hydrocele. In feveral inftances of this kind, where^ by different pradlitioners, a mere colled- tion of water was expedled without any other affedion, the tefticle has been found to be fo much difeafed, as to render im- mediate extirpation proper. Novf, if in fuch circumftances a cure had been at- tempted by the feton, the tefticle would have been allowed to remain expofed to the irritation produced by the cord, which probably would have inducedwery trouble- fome and even alarming fymptoms^ for we know that every fymptom of a fchir- rous tumor, is uniformly rendered worfe by irritation. It has indeed been alleged, that the real ftate of the teftis may be always known, by drawing the water off from the tuni- ca vaginalis, with a trocar; and this has accordingly470 On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXI Vo accordingly been recommended as a pre« vious ftep to the introdudionof the feton, with a view to afeertain the lituation of the tefticle. But it often happens, even after all the water is drawn oif, that the thicknefs produced by the vaginal coat and ferotum collapfing in la'rge folds about the teftis, precludes effedually every ac-^ curate examination of this kind. Of this, where the tumor has been large, every praditioner muft have met withinftances^ and we need not be furprifed at its being fo, when it is known that inftances occur, in which it requires a good deal of expe- rience to determine, whether a tefticle is fo much difeafed as to require extirpation, even when tompletely laid bare in the common operation for the hydrocele. Of this I have known feveral cafes in which a difference of opinion occurred, even among furgeons of obfervation ^ and a- mong thefe, the moft remarkable happen- ed in an operation performed by a late very eminent furgeon. The cafe was fup- pofed to be a fchirrous tefticle, conneded with471 Sed:. III. On the Hydrocele. with the efFufion of a confiderable quan- tity of a fluid into the tunica vaginalis. On laying open the tumor, the tefticle was found enlarged and hard; but be- ing neither painful nor unequal on the furface, the operator thought it impro- per to remove it: The furgeons prefent were of a different opinion; but the event of the cafe, which was favourable, tend- ed to evince the fiiperior judgment of tht operator, although, previous to the ope- ration, he had entertained a very differ-* ent opinion. I have alfo obferved above, that when the feton is ufed, the contents of the cyfl: cannot be properly afcertained. It fome- times happens, as will be more particular- ly noticed in the next fedion, that a por- tion of gut is contained in the upper part of a hydrocele. Of this I have met with feveral cafes, in fome of which no fufpi- cion was entertained of it, till thefac was laid open, although in two of them the water had previoufly been drawn off with a trocar. In472 On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV. In other inftances, the water of a hydrocele is contained in hydatids *; a circumftance not to be difcovered previous to the opening of the tumor: And as it will be readily admitted that the method of cure by feton is ill fuited for difcharging hydatids, this of itfelf is a material objedlion to the pradlice. So that, although the feton, in every other refpedl, fliould be equally eligible with the fimple incifion, which, for the rea- fons formerly given, I think it is not, yet the three lafl; objedlions I have adduced againfl: it, feem to be fufficient reafons for letting it afide. ' With refped to the mode of treatment with cauftic, I have only to obferve, in addition to what has already been faid upon it, that where patients are natural- ly timid, and do not incline to fubmit to the * Thofe wh6 doubt of the exiftence of hydatids in cafes of hydrocele, as fome have done, will find difierent in- ftances of them recorded in Morgagni de caiifis et fedibu$ ^ orb or urn.Se6l. III. "On the Hydrocele. * P. 105. the operation by the knife, this may be put in pradice. But the method of cure by cauftic is liable to one important objedion, which never attends the cure by incifion, to wit, that of being produdive of finufes, and col- lodions of matter, in the fcrotum and cel- lular fubftance conneding that bag to the tunica vaginalis. Two inftances of this I have feen, in which it was neceffary to dlfcharge colledions of matter by diffe- rent openings ; and a remarkable cafe of it is related by Douglas, in which an ex- tenfive incifion became neceffary for re- moving the colleded matter For this reafon, therefore, and a': the method of cure by incifion brings the ftate of the jtefticle more completely into view, and efpecially as, from all the experience I have had of the two different modes of operating, that by incifion feems to pro- duce the leafl: troublefome fymptoms, I am decidedly of opinion that it Ihould be preferred. . . VoL. V. Gg In474 On the'Hydrocele^ Chap, XXIV, In points of fuch Inpiportance, no per- fon fliould form any opinion haftily. No- thing but various opportunities of putting the different operations in pradice, can enable any one to judge of the merits of each. Even in the writings of the late celebrated Mr Sharpe, we find a remark- able inftance of this. In his treatife on the operations of furgery, he fpeaks of the radical cure of hydrocele, whether by cauftic or incifion, or in whatever way it may be attempted, as a very dangerous operation, and feems to think that it will be entirely laid afide At that time it is evident Mr Sharpe’s experience in this difeafe had not been fufficient to warrant a decifive opinion. It proved to be contrary to the dired ex-r perience of fome of our belt furgeons^ and Mr Sharpe himfelf feems afterwards to have been convinced that his firfl: ideas refpeding the mode of operat;jng by the fimple incifion, had bepn ill founded f. Still, « Tenth edition, Chap, IX. f \Vide Critical Inquiry, firft edition, p. §6.Sed. III. On the Hydrocele. 475 Still, however, his firft opinion had much influence with a great proportion of fur- geons ; fo that, till of late years, the ra- dical cure of hydrocele was feldoin at- tempted but in large hofpitals: And when at lafl: it was found that the danger at- tending it was lefs than had been repre- fented, yet the terror induced by Mr Sharpe’s account of the mode of opera- ting by incifion, was fuch, that almofl: all who-wrote upon it, were afraid of advi- ling it to be fo generally performed as it ought to be. When the earlier editions of this work were publifhed, although I gave the fame opinion of this operation that. I have nov/ done, and of the preference to which it appeared to be entitled, and although my experience of its utility and fafety had at that time been coiifi- derable, yet, finding it fpokert of with much caution by many, and among others by Mr Poet, I did not venture to recom- mend it fo warmly for ^^en.-rai afe, as I am ^now by much additional experience G ^ 2 enabled476 On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV. enabled to do. Although I had perform- ed the operation in a great number of cafes, without loling a patient, yet, as in fome the inflammation came to a coiifl- derable height, 1 was afraid that in others the dreadful accounts that were given of it by authors might occafionally be reali- zed. This induced me not only to fpeak of it with caution, but to endeavour, if poflible, to diicover the caufe of the vio- lence of this fymptom 3 for it obvioufly appeared, not merely from my own obfer- vation, but from all the accounts which had) been given of this operation, that the danger attending it was always in propor- tion to the degree of inflammation; and therefoi'e, if this could be rendered mo- derate, that little or perhaps no ha?:ard would attend it. I did not find that the length of the in- cifion had much influence 3 for, whether it was to the full extent of the tumor, or only to one third of that length, the in- flammation appeared to be the fame. Some gdyantage indeed was derived from at- tendingSed. III. On the Hydrocele. 477 tending to the diredion of the'incifion; for, wherevei" it was carried too near the tefticle, as is fometimes done at the bot- tom of the fac, the pain and inflammation were always fevere ^ but the moft fre- quent caufe of the violence of thefe fymp- toms appeared at laft to be the mode of drefling the parts after the operation. Till of late yearSj it had been the pradice to cram a confiderable quantity of dref- fings into the cavity of the tunica vagi- nalis ; and, with a view to make the fur- face of the parts flough quickly off, a pro- Cefs which at that time was judged ne- ceflary for the cure, red precipitate and other irritating fubftances were made ufe of by many. The impropriety of thefe being obvious, dry lint was, by Mr Pott and others, propofed to be ufed inftead of them. This was an important improve- ment, and it tended more than any bther circumflance to leflen the dread that had been conceived of this operation by the writings of Mr Sharpe. Still, however, the inflammation run in many inftances G g 3 too47^ Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV* too high V the parts fwelled to a great lize, and the patient, for the firfl: two or three weeks of his confinement, was of- ten kept in much diflrefs and anxiety. .Having frequently found that the dry lint inferted into the tunica vaginalis, ad- hered, at the firfl; drefllng of the parts, fo firmly to the furface of the teflis, that it could not be v^ithdrawn, I at lafl began' to conclude that this might render the inflammation more fevere than it other- wife would be 3 and it foon appeared that my conjedlure was well founded. For feveral years pafl I have covered the pledgits applied to the furface of the teflis, as has been advifed above, either with fine oil, or with a thin liniment of oil and wax, which anfwers better. This gives much lefs pain, in the firfl inflance, than dry lint, and the pledgits never adhere to the contiguous parts ^ fo that they can be as eafily removed at the firfl drefllng of the fore, as at any future period of the cure. TheSed. III. On the Hydrocele. 479 The effedl of this, and of proceeding in the other parts of the treatment, in the manner I have mentioned, has been, that during all this period the inflammation has never gone farther than I could have wifhed it to do: never fo Tar as to excite the leaft caufe of anxiety. The tefticle fwells and Inflames, but in no greater de- gree than is neceffary for preventing a re- turn of the difeafe. Of this the clearefl: proof that can be given, is, that of the lafl: fixty patients on whom I have operated in this manner, I have only once found it neceflary to advife blood-letting ^ and very rarely, as I have formerly obferved, fomentations or poultices. I may farther mention one important advantage of this operation, in addition to what I have fald of it, that it may be confidered as an abfolute fecurlty againfl: a return of the difeafe. I have known Indeed two inftances, and I have heard of other two in which the difeafe re- turned after this operation was performed. But thefe are all the inftances I .can hear Gg4 of480 On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV^ of Its failure in the courfe of thefe laff ^ 1 twenty years ; and In all of them tho canfe was evidently traced/fo want of ^ that perfevering attention during the cure^ j fo neeeflary for the fuccefs of every ope- | ration, and particularly for that of the hydrocelcc* , m That this operation is not hazardous^,^ 1 and that it may with confidence be relied | on againft future returns of the difeafe, I | am warranted in aflerting, not only from f the univerfal fuccefs attending it in this | country with others, but from the fuc- | cefs arifing from it in my ownpradice. Almoft every operation that had been propofed for the cure of hydrocele, had, by one or other of our furgeons, got a fair trial ^ to wit, that by excifion, or cutr- ting away the greateft part of the tunica vaginalis 5 by injeding wines and other liquids into the cavity of the fac; by ir- ritation, excited with tents of various kinds, both fblid and hollow; and more | lately by the feton. But, however keen- | ly one and all of thefe methods had for a time 'Se(3. Ilf. On the Hydrocele. ' 4^1^ time been fupported by thofe who firfl: in- troduced them, they were at laft entirely laid afide ; fo that,, for thefe lafl: twenty years, fcarcely any has been attempted through the greateft part, or perhaps the whole of Scotland, but tjiat by incifion: And although, as I have obferved above, ]f have been able to trace a return of the difeafe in four inftances, not one, fo far as I know, has died of the operation. I have now performed this operation in one hundred and fixty-five cafes, and in every variety of age, from the third to the feventy-fifth year: Not one of the number has either died or been in danger; nor has the difeafe returned in any of them. In various inftances, at firft, the inflammation, as I have obferved above, arrived at a confiderable height; but not in a Angle inftance, fince the operation has been done in the manner I have men- tioned. I have therefore reafon to think that the objedions which have been made to this operation, will foon be done away, and482 Ofi the Hydrocele. Chap, XXIV. and that the more it is put in practice, the lefs dread will be entertained of it. For my own part, I now confider it as a mat- ter of nearly the fame fimplicity as the treatment of a common abfcefs in any part of the body. The cure is conduced up- on the fame principles. It is accomplifli- ed in the fame time 3 often in lefs than the cure of abfcefles of equal magnitude ^ and, from the event, I am warranted to fay that it is not attended with more ha- zard. Others, from not being fo fortunate, and with whom a high degree of inflam- mation was often induced, not conceiving that this inconvenience could be leflened, either by any alteration to be made in the mode of performing the operation, or in the management of the dreffings, were naturally induced to make trial of other means of obtaining a radical cure of the difeafe. The late Mr James Rae of this place, who was perhaps one of the bell informed practitioners, as I believe him to have been 2483 Sed. III. On the Hydrocele. been one of the befl: operators of the age, was, I believe, the firft who revived the ufe of the feton in this kingdom for the cure of the hydrocele. He, as well as Mr Pott, who afterwards wrote upon it, having, from the caufes I have mentioned, conceived a dread of the mode of ope- rating by the Ample incifion ^ and Mr Rae having previoufly made many unfuc- cefsful trials of the method of cure, by injeding wine and other liquids into the tunica vaginalis teftis, they both keenly adopted.the pradice with the feton. Be- ing ftrongly recommended by two fur- geons of reputation, it was at firft adopt- ed by others ; but the inflammation in- duced by it was found, in fome inftances^, to be fo great and alarming, and the di- ftrefs arifing from matter colleding with- in the tunica vaginalis, and from the openings neceflary for the difcharge of it, was fo confiderable, that the pradice never got into general ufe ^ and it now appears to be laid afide^ even by thofe who at one period had formed the moft favourable4S^4 0/^ the Hydrocele. Chap. XXlV<# favourable opinion of it. I have not heard of its being performed in a fingle inftance, in this place, for thefe ten or twelve years. It now feems to be falling into difufe in England ; and although in fome parts of the Continent it was at firft a- dopted, on the recommendation of Mr Pott, I do not now learn that it is ever attempted. About the fame period that Mr Po(t wrote upon the ufe of the feton, the late Mr Elfe began to revive, with fome im- provements, the method of curing the hy- drocele by the application of cauftic; and if any fufEcient reafon had occurred for laying afide the operation by the fim- ple incifion, I would have been of opi- nion that the method of cure recommend- ed by Mr Elfe, fliould have been prefer- red to every other with which we are yet acquainted. It gives much lefs pain than the feton, and it cures the difeafe with equal certainty. The method of cure by excifion, that is, by cutting away the tunica vaginalis, cannotSe6l. III. On the Hydrocele. 485 cannot be compared to it; for It does not accoinplifh a cure more quickly, nor with more certainty, than the fimple incifion, while it obvioufly renders the operation much more tedious and more painful, the chief reafons, no donbt, for this mode of operating being now very generally exploded. The laft variety of operation that has been recommended for the cure of hydro- cele, is alfo the revival of an old one, to wit, the injeding of wine and other liquids into the tunica vaginalis teftis. The merit of firfl: propofing the cure of this difeafe by injedions, has commonly been given to a Mr Munro, a furgeon of this country ^ but we now have evidence of the pradice having been propofed and adopted upwards of fifty years before. Tents, armed with irritating ointments, having long been employed, we need not wonder at injedions being confidered as a better method of conduding the fame remedies to the parts upon which they were to ad. Whether injedions were earlier486 On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV.^ earlier ufed for this purpofe or not, we do not certainly know^ but in 1677, there is a third edition of what is entitled Les Oeuvres Chirurgicales, of a Monfieur Lambert at Marfeilles, in which a parti- cular account is given of the method of curing hydrocele by injections. The li- quid Mr Lambert preferred, was a ftrong folution of corrofive fublimate, in lime- water ; and- he enumerates many cafes in which it proved fuccefsful. But whether from the pain which it excited being fe- yere, or for other reafons with which we are not acquainted, this mode of opera- ting appears to have been for a long time laid entirely afide, till it was afterwards praCtifed by Mr Munro. Mr Munro at firft made ufe of fpirit of wine; but al- though it cared the difeafe, the pain which it excited was fo fevere, that he immediately laid it afide, and employed wine inftead of it. The practice being favourably received by fome of the firft furgeons of this place, particuiariy by the late Dr Monro, Mr Douglas,Se6t. III. On the Hydrocele. 487 Douglas, Mr Lauder, and the late Mi* Rae, it was for fome time frequently prac- tifed, efpecially by Mr Douglas and Mr 'Rae. The liquids they employed were diluted fpirit of wine, lime water, a fo- lution of alum, and red wine, both by itfelf and diluted. But however favourably they were at firft induced to judge of the pradice, and although very anxious for its fuccefs, it was, in the courfe of a few years, laid afide by all of them, and evidently upon good grounds. The injeftion either excited fe- vere pain, on being firft thrown in, and was fucceeded by violent inflammation, and this, in fome, by diftrefsful collecftions of matter; or the cure did not prove per- manent. In a few cafes, the difeafe re- turned almoft immediately, that is, in the courfe of two or three weeks; but this was not frequent. For the moft part, the cure appeared to be complete, and con- tinued to be fo, till at fome diftant period, to the great difappointment both of the patient and furgeon, a recurrence of the fwelling488 On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV» fwelling was obferved. In fome, this happened in five or fix months 3 in others, not till three or four years had elapfed. About the fame period, fome unfuccefs-^ ful trials being made with injections in London, both by the'late Mr Sharpe and others, the praCtice was altogether laid afide there, as it had been here, till of late that fome attempts have been made to revive it. But although for a period of more than forty years, this operation was fcarcely heard of in Britain, it was frequently praCtifed in France, and other parts of the Continent, where many trials and experi- ments* were made for curing the hydrocele by injeCUons. Trials were made with fpirit of wine, both by itfelf, and diluted with water 3 with a folution of common cau- ilic in water, in the, proportion of two grains to the ounce 3 with blue vitriol in water, in the fame proportions 3 with lime water, both by itfelf, and with mercurius fublimatus corrofivus, dilTolved in it in various proportions, from a quarter of a ^ grain489 Sed. III. On the Hydrocele. grain'to two grains, to the ounce; with ftrong folutions o£ alum, of faccharum faturni, infufions of red rofe leaves, infu- fions of oak bark, and with red wine, both by itfelf, and reduced with water to varlbus degrees of ftrength, according to the fancy of the operator. Many give the preference to an infufion of red rofe leaves: Others make ufe of the corrofive fublimate ; but it requires, even when mugh diluted, to be ufed with greap caution. In general, the preference Is gtr veil to wine : When claret or burgundy are employed, they are commonly mixed with a fixth or feventh part of watery and when port is ufed, a third or fourth part of water is added. Where no pain is exci- ted by the injedion thus diluted, the li- quid fhould be difcharged, and pure wine thrown in 3 for where no pain takes place, a cure is not to be looked for. The operation Is done in different ways ^ fome preferring a lancet for making th^ opening into the tumor, and others injed- ing the liquid with a common fyringe; VoL. V. H h but490 On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV. but In my opinion, the heft method of performing It is the following: The furgeon fhould be provided with a flat trocar, of the form and fize reprefented in Plate LXVI. fig, 3. together with a bag of refina elaftica, fitted with a pipe, repre- fented in the fame plate, fig. i. The pipe fliould be fomewhat longer thanahe canula of the trocar, fo as to pafs about an eighth part of an inch beyond it. If longer than this, it might injure the teftls; and when fliorter, the liquid does not pafs fo eafily. The quantity of liquid to be injected Ihould be gently warmed, and put Into the bag before the operation is begun. The patient being laid in a horizontal pofture, either upon his bed or on a table, and fe- cured in the ufual way by afliftants, the water fliould be drawn entirely off from the tumor, by palling the trocar into the anterior, and moll depending part of it.- The operator, fecuring the canula of the trocar with his left hand, is now, with his fight, to pafs the tube of the injedion bag entirely through it, and with gentle prelFure,Se6t. IIL 0;/ the Hydrocele. 491 preilure, to force as much of the liquid which it contains into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, as may be neceffary for eafily reaching every part of It, as well as the whole furface of the teftis. The bag fliould now be removed, taking care to leave the tube within the canula of the trocar, fo that, by turning the ftop-cock, the liquid may be retained in the cavity of the tumor. The furgeon fliould llill keep the canula of the trocar fixed, otherwife it might recede, by which the liquid would infinuate into the cellular fubfiance of the fcrotum, and in this manner do mifchief. He fliould alfo, with very gentle preflure, make the liquid pafs to every part of the cavity during the time it Is retained in it; and, at the end of four minutes, it fliould be entirely dlfcharged through the canula of the trocar, after withdrawing the tube of the elallic bag. . Some have faid that the Injection fliould be retained about three minutes : Others think that it cannot be depended on in lefs than fix or feven. But thofe who H h 2 have492 On the Hydrocele* Chap. XXIV, have operated moft frequently in this manr ner, are of opinion, that the fpace of four minutes is better than either. It feme- times happens, that intenfe pain is given almoft inftantaneoully on the injedlion be- ing introduced. In this cafe, it fhould be difcharged as foon as it has been made to pafs to the different parts of the tunica vaginalis. Some again are of opinion, that, after the quantity of liquid fir.fl injedled is dif- charged, a fimilar quantity fhould be im- mediately thrown in, and retained for the fame length of time, and that the opera- tion Will be very apt to fail, if this is omitted. This, however, is feldom done, although, I believe, it would be a real improvement on the operation. The quantity of liquid to be injedled, fhould always depend on the fize of the tumor. Some have thought that it fliould be equal to the quantity drawn off by the operation ; but this does not appear to be neceffary, while the injedling of fuch a quantity is very apt to do harm. After havingSecS. III. On the Hydrocele, 493 having collapfed completely, the parts do not again yield eafily to fudden diftenfion^ fo that very violent pain has been indu« ced by it. Where tli€ tumor is fmall, that is, where only five or fix ounces of ferum is colleded, the quantity of injeftion need not exceed three or four ounces ^ while it ihould not be lefs than- feven or eight ounces, where a pound of ferum has been drawn off; and in this proportion, ac- cording to the fize of the tumor. Lefs than any of thefe quantities might anfwer 3 but it would require more hand- ling to bring It Into.contad: with all the parts which it ought to touch ^ and, as a larger quantity is eafily introduced, it fhould always be advifed. On the injedion being difcharged, and not a drop fhould be left, the fcrotum fhould be covered with a pledgit of com- mon cerate, a fhort comprefs bfeing applied over it, and retained with a fufpenfory bag. The patient fhould be defired to re- main in bed for feveral days, and to give H h 3 aid494 Hydrocele. Chap, XXIV. aid to the fufpenfory bandage^ by infert* ing a fmall pillow beneath It. It often happens, that the pain Is incon- fiderable from the firfl:: Scarcely any in- flammation or tumor is perceived on the teftls ^ and the patient, confidering himfelf as well, walks abroad, in ten, twelve, four- teen, or fifteen days. But, with others, a very fevere degree of pain takes place on the firfl Introdudlion of the injedion, not merely in the teflis, but in the back, and over the whole loins. In mofl infla^nces, this foon becomes moderate, and the treat- ment goes eafily on^ but, in others, it is fucceeded by great inflammation in the teflis and fcrotum y and, in a few, this terminates in colledions of matter within the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. Thefe violent fymptoms the praditlon- er endeavours to obviate by blood-letting,, a low diet, the ufe of laxatives, and all the remedies ufually employed in hernia humoralis 3 fuch as all the faturnine appli- cations j and warm emollient fomentations and495 Sea. IIL On the iJydrocele. and poultices, when fuppuration is* likely to take place.. When matter forms in the tunica vagi- nalis, the treatment confifts in laying the colledion open from one end to the other, and conduaing the cure, as has already been advifed in the operation by the fiin- ple incifion. The formation of matter, I believe, is not frequent; but I know that it occafionally happens ^ and fo much are the praaitloners on the Continent a- fraid of it; of the height to which the in- flammation might otherwife advance3 and of the dreadful diftrefs that in fuch cir- cumflances enfue, from fuppuration taking place, that they feldom perform the opera- tion without premifing purging and blood- letting, and often repeat the blood-letting once and again during the cure, precau- tions never judged neceflTary in the me- thod of curing the hydrocele by the hm- ple incifion. The proportion of thofe that are com- pletely cured by this method of operating, it Is difficult to afcertaln; for, although H h 4 In49^ On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV. In jTome the difeafe returns In the courfe of two or three weeks, In others,^ It Is not perceived for feveral months; and, in fome,, as I have obferved above, not till two or three years have elapfed. Hence, In hofpi- tal pradice, where patients are feldom heard of after being difmlfled, the point in queftion cannot be determined ^ and it is chiefly in foreign hofpitals that hither- to this operation has been performed. From the beft information that I have been able to procure, it appears, that, al- though, in many, a complete cure is ob- tained, yet that the difeafe returns early, that is, in the fpace of a few weeks, in a ninth or tenth part of all on whom the operation is performed ; and in five of eight or nine, at fome uncertain period, in future. Under this convidion, I have judged it proper to date all chat has come to my knowledge of what relates to this opera- tion^ and I am tfie more induced to it,- from finding that others, either from an iinnecefTary dread of the operation by the fimple'Sed, III. On the Hydrocele. 497 fimple incifion, and which I confider as the heft and moft rational that is yet known, or from a mifreprefentation in the accounts they may have received of the method of cure by injedion, are a- gain endeavouring to introduce it in Bri- tain. From the hiflory that I have given of the method of curing the hydrocele by ' injedions, the conclufion that I have formed of it would readily be drawn by any one ^ but, in addition to this, many powerful arguments may be adduced a- gainft it. I/?, We do not, from experience, find, that other tumors, produced by fluids con- tained in cyfls, are readily cured by in- jedlons. Fev/, I bedeve, would now think of attempting the cure of abfcefles or ericyfted tumors by injedions. In tumors induced by fluids vcolleded in the bvirfle mucofe, where, froTia the conti- guity of joints, extenfive incifions might have done harm, I have in various in- ftances, made trial of injedions; but fel- -dom49S On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXdV, dom with any advantage. In fo'me, they excite pain and inflammation } and where this does not happen, although they may lefTeii the difcharge,,this proves only tem- porary ; fo that a cure is afterwards to be obtained by the introdudion of a cord, or the enlargement of the opening to as great an extent as with fafety can be ven- tured upon. Mr Earle^ indeed, has faid, and he gives it as a reafon for the pradice he has adopt- ed in hydrocele, that he has frequently fucceeded in procuring an adhefion and confolidation of parts in finufes, and other lai'ge cavities^ by injedions of various kinds : But, as this has neither happened in the courfe of my own experience, nor with any other praditioner with whom I am acquainted, I muft leave the pradice in the hands of thofe with whom it has anfwered better. At one period, a praditioner in this country got into notice, by announcing frequent cures of the fiflula in ano as well as otherfinufes, by injedions. Some timid patientSgSe6l. III. On the Hydrocele. 499 patients, both here and from England, put themfelves under his care. His repu- tation, however, was not of long dura- tion ^ for I do not find that he proved fuccefsful in one of twenty cafes, although the patients commonly remained long un- der his care. The injedllons were thrown in frequently, and with much attention; and liquids of various kinds were em- ployed p fome that feemed to aft folely by their aftringency, and others by ex- citing inflammation. 2^^, When the tunica vaginalis has been much diftended, as it will not collapfe e- qually round the tefticle on the fluid be- ing drawn off, cavities will thus be form- ed, by which feparate colleftions will be apt to take place, either of a ferous fluid, or of purulent matter if inflammation has been excited. When inflammation excited by an injeftion goes too far, and with whatever care the operation is done this fometiihes happens, the diftrefs produced by it is fe- vere. Befides the pain arifing from the 3 inflammatory500 On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV» inflammatory ftage of the difeafe, if flip- puratlon takes place^ the patient muft fub- mit to that painful diftenflon which the hidden formation of matter in this confi- ned ftated always excites 3 to the febrile fymptoms with which it is attended; and to an incifion equally extenfive for dif~ charging the matter, as if the mode of cure by incifion had been adopted at firfl. 4^/6, The ftate of the teftls cannot, in this mode of operating, be examined with the fame accuracy, as when the operation is done by incifion. Hence it may be in fuch a ftate of difeafe as to be injured by the injection, wflthout our being previoufl ly able to dicover it. Some indeed have faid, that, on the wd- ter being drawn off, we may always know with certainty whether the tefticle is: found or not. This, when it is much en- larged, is certainly the cafe ; but where the tunica vaginalis is thickened, as it ge- nerally is when it has been long much di- ftended^the teftis, if not confiderably en- larged,Sea. III. On the Hydrocele. 501 larged, as well as the epididymis, may be materially difeafed, without our being able to difcover it. Of this I have feen various inftances, in fome of which, as I have obferved above, pradtitioners of much experience were deceived. 5?^, The views of modern furgeons in the cure of the hydrocele, are, as I have already had occalion to remark, to excite fuch a degree of inflammation over' the furface of the tefticle, as well as of the tunica vaginalis, as may produce a firm adhefion between them. Now, inftances often ofccur, in which the tunica vaginalis is fo thick, callous, and infenfible, that a much more irrita- ting injedlion would be required to make it inflame than the tefticle itfelf can bear. Nay, cafes are fometime^ met with, in which diiTerent portions of the tunica va- ginalis are as firm and hard as cartilage y a ftate highly improper for any attempt to cure the difeafe by injedlions, or in any Other way than by removing the hardened parts; and yet this fometimes happens, as» 502 On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV. as I have more than once feen, where previoufly it could not be difcovered, and in which the tunica vaginalis teftis ap- peared to be in its ufual ftate, till the con- trary was found to be the cafe, on laying the parts open by the Ample incifion. 6th^ The chief, and perhaps only ,advan- tage which the mode of operating by in- jedlion feems to pollefs, over that by inci- fion, is, that it is lefs painful in the exe- cution; but although this may be a rea- Ibn for advifing it with timid patients, who will not fubmit to the other, it is not fuf- ficient to warrant pradlitioners, in giving it the preference. The prevention of pain is at all times a moft defirable objedl; but it is far from being the only one in chi- rurgical operations. Our chief view, is the lafety of our patient in the fi'rfl: inllance, together with his complete fecurity againfl a return of the difeafe. In fo far as one mode of operating is lefs painful than ano- ther, and attended with equal certainty in fecuring againfl: a relapfe, it ought certain- ly to be preferred ; but this is, as 1 have alreadySed. III. On the Hydrocele. 503 already had occafion to remark, far from being the cafe with the mode of curing the hydrocele by injedions: So that patients treated In this manner, are, for a confider- able time, liable to all the diftrefs and anxi- ... . ' ety, which uncertainty in points of impor- tance in every inftance gives, while the chief difference between it and the method of operating by Incifion, which I have fhewn to be attended with complete fafety as well as fecurity, confifts In the degree of pain which it excites being lefs. This of itfelf would have little influence even with the mofl: timid, were they to know, that. In the mode of operating by incifion, the cutting part of it is done in lefs thana minute ; when the dreflings are properly conduded, that the teflicle does not in- flame more than is neceflary for a cure ; and that the fubfequent pain is for the mofl: part inconfiderable ; not to be com- pared with what is experienced from mat- ter colleding within the cavity of the tu- nica vaginalis,^s fometimes happens in the mode504 On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV. mode of operating by injedlon, as well as in that by the feton. As an argument in favour of this operation, it is faid, that, when it fails, we ftill have it in our power to perform it over again, or to advife the radical cure by incifion. This, however, leads to much vexation, diftrefs, and difappointment in thefirfl; inftance,while I think it probable, that one effedl of injedtions, when they do not fucceed, mufl: be to render any other operation that may be afterwards perform- ed, more uncertain than it otherwife would be, or to require a higher degree of in- flammation to be induced. Some have Ima- gined, that injedions in the cure of hy- drocele prove ufeful, only in fo far as they excite inflammation, and confequent adhe- fion of the tunica vaginalis to the furface of the teftls; whilfl others are of opinion, that they ad folely by thek aftringency. By ftrengthening or corrugating the fecre- ti ng and abforbent veflels of the parts, they may be fuppofed to ad both by prevent- ing a too plentiful fecretion of the fluid naturallySedl. III. On the Hydrocele. 505 naturally contained in the tunica vagina- lis, and by promoting a more equal ab- forption; and we accordingly find, that fiich fluids only are now ufed for thefe In- jedlions, as are obvioufly of an aftringent nature, fuch as infufions of red rofe leaves, folutions of alum, and red wine. My own opinion is, that a permanent . cure is never to be depended on, where inflammation Is not induced fufficlent to produce a firm adhefion between the tu- nica vaginalis and tefticle; but there is xeafon to think that this feldomtakes place from inje<3;ions^ and I conclude that it is fo, not only from the trifling^degrce of pain which, in mofl: inftances, the injec- tions now ufed, commonly give, and from the fwelling of the parts which ufuallj takes place, being inconfiderable, but from the difeafe often returning, after it had been fuppofed to be cured, and which could not happen, if thefe parts had been made x.p unite by inflammation. Now, if this is the fad, and I firmly believe it to be fo, that injedions, in a VoL. V. li great5o6 On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV, great proportion of cafes, ad: chiefly by their afliringency, and not by defltroying the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, they may readily be fuppofed to render not on- ly the tunica vaginalis, but even the fur- face of the tefl:is more callous than it was before, by which a greater degree of in- flammation will be required, than might ptherwife be fufficient, when any other operation becomes neceflary for the cure of the difeafe. In anfwer, however, to all thefe ob- jedions, it may be faid that the pradice has already gained ground in feveral parts of the Continent, and that Mr Earle, a furgeon of our own country, has brought forth two publications on the fubjed, in both of which it is recommended in the warmeft manner, and a number of cafes recited, in which it appears to have proved fuccefsful. To this I fliall only obferve what I have already had occaflon to do, refpeding the pradice of foreigners, in the hydrocele^ that having been later than the Britifli furgeons,Sed. III. On the Hydrocele. I 12 ' did I furgeons, in acquiring a knowledge of the true nature of the difeafe, they have hi- therto remained behind them in every thing that relates to it. Their pradice has therefore beeii timid, changeable, and indecifive. This, however, I only mean as a general obfervatlon^ for feme foreign- ers there are, whofe knowledge in this, as in all other difeafes, would do them much honour: But all who have read what in general has been written upon this fubjed by foreign furgeons, or who have had op- portunities of feeing their pradice, muft admit, that in the treatment of this dif- eafe at leaft they ought not to be followed. And again, with refped to the obferva- tlons of Mr Earle, I need only obferve, that this writer obvioufly labours under a deep rooted prejudice againft every m6de of operating, except that by the feton, of which he once feems to have entertained a very high opinion; and the mode of cure by injedion, which he has now very keenly adopted. In one part, indeed, of his treatife, he makes the following can-5o8 , On the Hydrocele. Chap. IXXIV. did declaratiofih:- I muft confefs, that I took an early and deep rooted diflike to the cure of hydrotele by incilion*.” Labouring under this kind of terror at other operations, and difappointed, as It would feem, in his expectation of the operation by the feton, he was thus ready to adopt the practice of curing the difeafe with Injedllons, in the eafy manner repre- fented by the French, and which he has accordingly with great zeal done. If longer experience, and farther im- provement fhall evince the mode of curing the hydrocele by injecftions, to be equally fafe and certain with that by the fimple incifion, and fhall obviate the objections that 1 have ftated againfl: it, none will be more ready tp adopt it than I fhall be. In the mean while^ and In the prefent ftate of our knowledge, few praditioners will advife it, if it be not with thofe patients whofe timidity precludes the more certain and equally fafe method of cure, the ope- ration by incifion. S E C- ^ Vide A Treatife on the Hydrocele, ^c. by Jcmies Zarle, Efq; p. 30.Sed. IV. On the Hydrocele^ S^9 I i 3 quently SECTION IV. Of the Hydrocele of a Hernial Sac. WHEN the parts have been long pro*^ truded in hernia, a ferous fluid colleds in the bottom of the fac. In the fcrotal hernia, if this extravafated ferum is not foon removed by abforption, the tumor, we may eafily imagine, may aug- ment to fuch a fize as to afford many of the ufual marks of a hydrocele. Accord^ ingly, befides different inftances that I have now met of it, in my own pradice, a number of cafes, I find, are enumerated by authors, which fufficiently warrant the infertion of this as a real, and per- haps not an unfrequent variety of the dif- eafe. It was well known to the ancients, that a confiderable quantity of a fluid is fre-5^0 On the Hydrocele. Chap, XXIV^ quently contained in the fac of a hernia, along with the parts protruded from the abdomen; but Saviard feems to have been the firfi: who fpeaks of it with precilion, Le Dran relates different cafes of it: Heifter fpeaks of It under the title of Hy- dro-entrocele : And the l^te Dr Monro defcribes it with his ufual accuracy; and mentions a cafe af it, where fix pounds of water were evacuated fram the tumor, by an opening made with a trocar A cafe of it is alfo related by Douglafs f, and two cafes of a fimilar nature are mention- ed by Mr Pott if. The water is here confined in a cyfl, formed by a procefs of the peritoneum; and, as it occupies nearly the fame fitua- tion in the ferotum with the hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis, fo we cannot always, by the feeling alone, mark the difference between them. For, although the tef- ticle, in this variety of hydrocele, is com- monly diftinguiflied more evidently at the lower * Monro’s Works, p. 579. f P. 182, t Treatife on the Hydrocele, p, 21.Se6l. IV. Oti the Hydrocele. 511 lowei: and pofterior part of the fwelling-, than in the hydrocele of the vaginal coat, yet, the difference in this particular be- tween the two difeafes, is not always fo evident as to afford a fufficient diftinc- tion. When a portion of gut, and other parts forming the hernia are down,- the fuinef» they produce along the fpermatic cord, ferves, in fome meafure, to diflinguifh the difeafe from a Ample hydrocele. And when, along with this and other fymp- toms of hernia, we evidently difcover, in the tumor of the fcrotum, a fludfuation of a fluid, if this fluid can, /by prefliire, be made to difappear, either entirely or in part, the nature of the cafe becomes thereby obvious. This variety of hydrocele may take place as readily in the hernia congenita, as in any other rupture; and, in that e-^ vent, the water muft be contained in the fame fac with the tefticle and protruded inteftines. Ii4 As512 On the Hydrocele, Chap. XXIV/ As all the fluid indeed naturally fecret- ed for keeping the furface of the abdomi- nal vifcera moifl^ muft, in a congenital hernia, fall into the fac, we would be in- duced to-fuppofe, that almoft every her- nia of this kind fliould be complicated with a hydrocele of the fac. The two cafes of this related by Mr Pott appear to have been conneded with hernia con- ^ genita ; and I have met with k in two in- flances. But whether this commonly happens or not, farther obfervation muft difcover.. With; whatever hernia this kind of hy- drocele may be eonnedted, if the water can, by preflure, be made to pafs into the abdomen, this will always, prove a cer- tain charadleriftic of the difeafe ; for, in no other fpecies of encyfted hydrocele, can the water be made to difappear by preflure. It may happen, however, in. this kind of hydrocele, that this diftin- guilhing fymptom of the difeafe does not exift; for if, by the preflhre of a trufs,, or any other caufe, an adhefion is produ- ced-On the Hydrocele. 5^3 Sea. IV. ced in the groin, between the fides of the hernial fac, if the under part of the fac continues open, with water colledcd in it, the tumor produced by it will afford all the ufual appearances of hydrocele, while no part of its contents can be made to pafs into the abdomen by prefTure. A cafe of -this kind we find related by Le Dran, where the neck of the hernial fac was Ihut completely, and a hydrocele formed in the under part of it. In this fituation, the chief means of diftinaion are to be obtained from an ac- quaintance with the previous hiftory of the cafe. When, in an ambiguous cafe^ it is found, that, before the water began to collea in the fcrotum, the patient had been liable to a hernia of the fame fide^ this circumftance alone will tend much to determine the nature of the difeafe. But even although a miftake fhould oc- cur, and although a hydrocele of a her- nial fac, in fuch circumftances, fhould be miflaken for a fimple hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis, nothing bad could enfue from514 Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV. from it j for the treatment adapted to one variety of the difeafe, would apply with nearly equal propriety to the other ^ for here we conclude, that the parts which at firft formed the hernia are reduced, and that the fides of the fac, in the up- per part of it, adhere firmly together. But, when the protruded parts ftill re- main down, unlefs the operation for the bubonocele is at the fame time to be per- formed, no other fliould be attempted, but that of difeharging the water with a fmall trocar, when the fize of the tumor ren- ders it proper. For, unlefs the operation for the hernia fliould be done at the fame time, much mifehief might enfue from expofing the bowels fo much to the air, as would necefiarily be the cafe, by laying the tumor open for a radical cure of the hydrocele. Whenever it is refolved, in this variety of hydrocele, to operate for a radical cure, the Ample iiicifion ought unqueftion- ably to be advifed ^ as, from the rilk of injuriag the bowels, or other parts pro- trudedSecS. IV. On the Hydrocele. 515 truded from the abdomen, neither the fe- ton, cauftic, nor inje£lions, are here ad- miffible. Indeed, this of itfelf affords a powerful argument in favour of the method of operating in every inftance by the fimple incifion, which brings all the parts concerned in the difeafe into vievv". The very poflibility of a patient being killed, by a feton palling through a par- • tion of iiiteftine contained In a hydro- cele, is a weighty objedtion againft the feton being ever employed i and every praditioner niufl: acknowledge, that when the fpermatic procefs along the groin is much diftended, and when the vaginal coat of the teftis is much thickened, that fuch uncertainty often occurs, as to ren- der it impoffible for the moft fkilful fur- geons to determine with precifion, what the contents of fuch fwellings really are. In the two inftances to which I allude, of a hydrocele conneded with a conge- nital hernia, and which I met with fonie years ago, there had not beenpreviouily, in either of them, any caufe to fufped the real 25i6 On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV- real nature of the cafe. They were both, by Ikilful pradHtioners, judged to be col- Tedlions of water in the tunica vaginalis, without any complication whatever ^ and in each of them, on the tumor being laid open, together with water in contadl witli the tefticle, a piece of inteftine was found protruded into the upper part of the fcro- tum. In one of the cafes too, a fmall portion of omentum accompanied the gut. In this laft, it had been propofed, at a confultation of furgeons, to employ the feton. For fome reafon or other, this was fortunately rejeded ; for, on laying the tumor open by incifion, it evidently ap- peared, that if a cord had been introdu- ced, it muft in all probability have palled through the protruded gut. SEC-On the Hydrocele. 517 Sea.V. SECTION V. Of the Anafarcous Hydrocele of the Sperma- tic Cord. IN the anatomical defcription glyen in the firft fedion, it was obferved, that foon after the defcent of the teftis, the paffage along the fpermatic procefs of the peritoneum, is completely oblitera- ted, by the fides of the paffage adhering to each other by means of cellular fub- llance. By external -preflure, and in fome in- ftances, perhaps from other caufes, this adhefion of the fides of the peritoneal procefs, is in general very firm in that part of it which paffes along the groin; but the fuperior and more internal part of the procefs, is not only more loofe in it- felE5iS On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV. felf, but Is .conne6led with, and enveloped in a very loofe cellular fubflance. From this cellular ftru£lure of thefe parts, we might, a priori, fuppofe them to be liable to the fame kind of anafar- cous or oedematous fwellings, with which other parts of the body, of a fimilar ftruc- ture, are frequently attacked. And ac- cordingly, we find this to be the cafe. This anafarcous fwelling fometimes ac- companies afcites ^ and it now and then appears as a local affedion, without be- ing combined with either of thefe. The caufes of this variety of hydro- cele in general, are obflrudlons produced in the lymphatics leading from the part, by fcirrhous affedions of the liver, fpleen^ and other abdominal vifeera. I have like-, wife known it induced by the preflure of a trufs applied for the cure of a her- nia When * An inftance of this is alfo mentioned by Douglas. Treatife on the Hydrocele.Sed. V. On the Hydrocele. 519 When the fwelling is conneded with anafarca in other parts, it is thereby fo diftindly marked, as to render a particu- lar defcription of it uimeceffary. When it takes place as a local difeafe, its apr pearances are thefe: A colourlefs tumor in the courfe of the fpermatic cord ^ foft and inelaftic to the feel, and not attend- ed with fluduation. In an ered pofture, it is of an oblong figure, but when the body is in a recumbent pofture, it be- comes more flat, and fomewhat round. It does not commonly occupy more than the ufual ftretch of the cord along the groin, but occafionally, it extends down the length of the tefticle, and even ftretches the fcrotum to ah enormous flze By prefliire, the fwelling can be always made to recede, never entirely, but often in great part, into the cavity of the ab- domen. I * A remarkable inftance of this is related by Mr Pott, who, from a fwelling of this kind, difcharged eleven Englifh pints at once. Treatife on Hydrocele, cafe KoOn the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV, 520 domen. It Inftantly, however, returns to occupy Its former lituation on the pref- fure being withdrawn. When the tumor is connedled with ge- neral anafarc a, unlefs the canfe which gave rife to the difeafe of the conftitution is re- moved, it would be a vain attempt to en- deavour to cure this particular fymptom. And it commonly happens, that thefe fwellings in the groin which occur in ana- farca, difappear when the difeafe of the fyflem is carried oiE But when the fwelling occurs as an ori- ginal difeafe, produced, perhaps, by feme local caufe^ a local remedy is then the only one neceiTary to be employed. In fuch a cafe, as we have not the general bad habit of body to encounter, which commonly occurs in cafes of fcjotal ana- farca, we need not be fe much afraid of making a free incifion into the tumor; and accordingly, all that is neceiTary to be done is this : As feon as the fwelling has acquired fuch a iize as to become in- convenient, an incifion ftiould be made with ■3Sea.V. On the Hydrocele. 5^1 Vox.. V. K k to with a fcalpel from one end of it to the other, taking care to go fo deep, as ef- fedlually to difcharge all the fluid contain- ed in the cells of the part ^ and as the fe- rum is fometimes found to have acquired a vifcid confiftence, this circurallance renders a deep incifion more neceffary than it otherwife would be. In making this incifion,' the only circumftance . we have to guard againft, is injuring what may be properly termed the conftituent parts of -the fpermatic cord, the fpermatic artery and vein, and vas deferens, and which, in. every inftance, may always with certainty be done. The contents of the fwelling being all removed, a pledgit of foft old linen, fpread with common wax ointment, fhould be iiiferted between the lips of the fore, which mufl: afterwards be treated, in eve- ry refped:, as a firnple wound from any other caufe; by poultices and fomenta- tions, if much pain and a fcanty fuppu- ration, render thefe remedies neceilary ^ and by a due attention to dreifing, fo asOn the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV. 522 SEC to induce the formation of firm granula- tions from the bottom. In {bme inftances, a cure has been at- tempted by making deep pundures in dif- ferent parts of the fwelling^ but while they do not with fuch certainty remove the difeafe, they are equally painful with an incifion carried the full length of the tu- mor.Sedl. On tie Hydrocele: 523 SECTION VI. Of the Encyjled Hydrocele of the Spermatic Cord. The furx0und4ng fubftance of the fper- matic cord being entirely cellular, the formation of encyfted tumors, we may conclude, ought occafionally, to take place here, as well as in other parts of the body > and accordingly v/e find, in fome inftances, that water, inflead of diT fufing itfelf over the whole fpermatic pro» cefs, is colleded in one or more diftmfi: cells or cyfls. This kind of hydrocele being on its firfl: appearance fmali, gives little or Ho trouble, and is therefore, feldom much noticed, till it has acquired a larger fize. In Ibme, it begins in the fuperior part of Kk2 thej524 On the Hydrocele. Chap, XXIV, the procefs; but in general, it is firft per» ceived towards the lower part of it, a lit-r tie above the epididymis. By degrees, however, it ftretches upwards, and, in fome inftances, fo far downwards, as to reach from the abdominal mufcles to the very bottom of the fcrotum; in which cafe, a perfon w’^ho had not formerly feen the difeafe, might probably miftake it for a hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis. But we have a very certain mark of diftindtion between the two difeafes. In the commencement of this variety of hydrocele, the tumor is always above the tefticle, which is diftindly felt be- low; and even In the moft advanced fta- ges of the difeafe, the teftis is found at the back part of it, perfectly unconnedt- ed with the fwelling. Whereas, in the advanced ftate of a hydrocele of the tu- nica vaginalis, although fqme degree of hardnefs is difcovered, where the tunica vaginalis adheres to the tefticle, yet when the fw^elling is confiderable, the teftis can never be diftindtiy felt. In the encyfted hydrocele^25 On the Hydrocele. Sea. VI. hydrocele of the cord, the figure and fize of the penis, is not commonly fo much altered, as when the water is collected in the tunica vaginalis, in which the penis frequently difappears almoft entirely. In other points, the encyfted dropfy of the fpermatic cord, is very fimilar to the hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis teflis, A fludluation of a fluid is fenfibly difco- vered on prefliire. The tumor is com« monly of a pyramidal form, which is al- fo the cafe with the other, with its bafe Dr largefl: extremity downward*. And iio prefliire has any influence in making it difappear, either altogether or in part. This is the appearance of the tumor, when the water is contained in one cyft. When feparated into two diftincl cells, as K k 3 fometimes * A hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis teflis, is fo frequently indeed of a pyramidal form, with its bafe downwards, that this fhape may be confidered as one of the charadleriflic appearances of the difeafe 5 every other tumor to which the teflis and its coats are li- able, being either more round, or of a more irregular ittiape.526 On the Hyd'rocele. Chap, XXIV'*. fometimes happerfs, the line of divlfion^ is coinmonly evident by the tumor being, at that part fomewhat puckered, or dimi- nilhed 'in its diameter. A fimilar appear- ance alfo takes place, when this variety of hydrocele is combined with a real hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis tef- tis, which, in fome inftances, happens > and in this cafe, a line of feparation may be obferved, where the upper ex- tremity of the tunica vaginalis termh nates. Th^ means of diftincSion between this- fpecies of hydrocele, and that of the vagi- nal coat of the teftis,. have already been mentioned. The only other tumors with which it is in danger of being confound- ed, are, the anafarcous hydrocele of the fpermatic cord, and a real hernia, either of the omentum, or of a portion of gut. From the former, however^ as alfo from an omental hernia, it may in general be: diflinguiflied by the feel. In neither of thefe, is the flutSuation of a fluid to be perceived, and to the touch they are both foft and inelaftic ^ whereas, in this va- riety.Sed. VI. On the Hydrocele^ 527 riety of hydrocele, the tumor has a fprin- gy kind of feel, and a fluduation is fen- fibly found in It. And in both the others, the fwelling in foine degree recedes upon preffure, which It never does in this va - riety of encyfted hydrocele. From a rupture of a portion of gut, it is chiefly diftlnguiflied by the tumor be- ginning, not at the ring of the external oblique mufcle, as Is the cafe In hernia, but farther down the cord^ In the lat- ter, the fwelling commonly turns lefs, on the patient being placed in a horizontal pofture; and it is always confiderably af- feded both by coughing and flieezing} but no'pofture, no prefliire, nor any ac- cidental circumftanee, alters the lize of this variety of hydrocele. The abfence of the fymptoms of hernia, too. Is here material in the diftlndion* For there is neither pain in the tumor, nor in the ab- domen; nor ficknefs, vomitings nor any interruption to the paiTage by ftool, as ve- ry commonly happens in hernia. K k 4 Although528 On the Hydrocele. Chap, XXIV* Although all the ancient writers were ignorant of the anatomy of the parts com cerned in this difeafe, it is evident they were well aware of its exiftence. We find it particularly defcribed by ^gineta, Albucafis, and afterwards by Fallopius, Wifeman, and others. Arnaud, in his treatife on hernia, alfo takes notice of it,' though not with much accuracy 3 and we find it more lately defcribed with exad- nefs, by the late Dr Monro, by Douglas, and by Mr Pott. This variety of hydrocele, as alfo the anafarcous fwelling of the cord, and the cedematous tumor of the fcrotum, are all frequent In Infancy. Thefe tumors, how- ever, in childhood, feldom prove perma- nent. For the moft part, they readily yield to gentle fridlion with volatile lini- ment, or any otlrer ftimulating or aftrin- gent application; fifch as fpirit of wine, a ftrong folution of alum in water, or of crude fal ammoniac in vinegar. The late Dr Monro advifes the application of cloths warmedSe6l. VI. On the Hydrocele. 5^9 warmed "with the fumes of burning ben- zoin. Even the hydrocele of the tunica va- ginalis is fometimes met with early in life. I have had different inftances of it in children under three years of age ^ but it is^not fo readily aded upon by the ex- ternal application of ftimulants, as the anafarcous varieties of the difeafe. In adults, indeed, the cyft in every va- riety of hydrocele generally becomes fo firm, as not to be affeded by any exter- nal application^ fo that, when the tumor becomes large, we employ either the means for a palliative, or a radical cure, as have been already recommended in the hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis teftis. When it is our intention merely to dif- charge the water by a pundure, it ffiould be done with a trocar, in the fame man- ner , as was direded m Sedion III. for a hydrocele of the' tunica vaginalis ^ ta- king care to introduce the inftrument at the moff depending part of the tumor. And again, when we mean to accomplilh d 2On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV. 530 a radical cure, the fame mean^ are to be employed, that have been already advi- fed for the radical cure of that variety of the difeafe, in the tunica vaginalis teftls. The fame objedions indeed do not here occur to the ufe of the feton, as in the hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis, from the prefence of the teftis. And if we could, in every fpecies of hydrocele^ af- certain the exadl contents of the tumor, the feton might, no doubt, be here em- ployed with fafety and advantage. But, as it is obvious, from what I have alrea- dy had occafion to remark, that no cer- tainty of this can at all times be obtain- ed > and, as a hydrocele of a hernial fac, in which a portion^ of gut is contained, tnay be as readily confounded with this as with any other fpecies of the difeafe, I would therefore, even in the hydrocele of the cord, lay this method of cure en- tirely afide. An objection occurs. In this variety of the difeafe, to the method of cure by cau- ftio, which is not applicable in the hy- drocele5J^ Sea. VI, On the Hydrocele. drocele of the tunica vaginalis teftis. The ferum, in fome inftances, is collea- cd in two or more cyfts ^ different cafes of which I have met with, and fimilar in- ftances are related by Garengeot, Dou- glas, and others. Now, in this fitua- tion, if cauftic fhould be applied in the method recommended by Mr Elfe, upon a fmall fpot only, all the water would not be difcharged ; and, in OTder to obtain a complete removal of the difeafe, it would be neceffary to repeat the application of the cauftic. This, I think, is an additional reafon for our giving a general preference to the method of cure by incilion; which, by laying the tumor open from one end ta the other, divides at once all the differ- ent cyfts of which it may be compofed, and faves the patient from that diftrefs and difappointment which muft always be experienced,^ on a complete cure not be- ing obtained, when good reafons had been previoully given for expeding it. I would therefore advife the treatment by incifion in532 On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXlVi in this fpecies of hydrocele, in the fame manner as in the hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis; and the mode of performing the operation, and the after treatment of the patient, are nearly the fame in each. I have thus enumerated every hydro- cele that can be properly confidefed as forming a diftindl varietj^ of the difeafe* In doing fo, as I have defcribed no tumor but iuch as every praditloner of expe- rience muft have met with, and of which the fymptoms are" clearly and dlftindtly marked, fo it will not, I hope, be confi- dered as anunneceffary degree of minute- nefs, that I have particularly taken notice of them all. I can by no means agree with fome au- thors, particularly with Mr Sharpe^ and Mr Elfe, who think that it might be bet- ter to confine the defcription of hydro- cele to two varieties. We need not in- deed wonder at Mr Sharpe fpeaking in this •* Treatife on the Operations of Surgery,Sed:, VI. On the Hydrocele. 533 this manner; for, even at the late period in which he wrote, although the exiftence of all the varieties of the difeafe that I have mentioned had been defcribed by different authors, yet they were not underflood with much accuracy 3 and it is evident from Mr Sharpe’s writings on the fubjed, that his ideas of them were in many refpeds more confufed than might have been expeded in one of his ufual accuracy and penetration. But, whatever was the cafe with Mr Sharpe, it is truly furprifing, that thofe who are un- queftionably well informed in every cir- cumftance relating to this difeafe, and who mufl be convinced from frequent diflec- tions, of the exiftence of all the varieties that have been mentioned, fhould objed to their being retained. Where no evi- dent or marked diftindion occurs between one tumor and another, an attempt to efta- blifh a difference would be ufelefs, and therefore improper3 but where appear- ances point out an obvious variety, it would furely be confidered as much want of534 On the Hydrocele. Chap. XXIV. of accuracy in an author to omit the de- tail of them. In the defcription I have given of the -hve different fpecies of hydrocele, to wit, the anafarcous fwelling of the fcrotum, the hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis tef- tis, the hydrocele of the hernial fac, the anafarcous and the encyfted hydrocele of the fpermatic cord, it was neceflary to enumerate the lymptoms of each, as they occur feparately and uncombined. It fometimes happens, however, that one, two, or more of the different varieties oc- cur at the fame time in the fame patient. I have met with inftances of -three, and not unfrequently with two varieties in the fame perfon. The late Dr Monro mentions an inftance of four fpecies of hydrocele being all combined in one cafe In fuch cafes, fome difficulty and con- fufion is, no doubt, to be expeded ^ but praditioners, in forming a judgment of their nature, muff be entirely dixeded by due ^ Monro*s Works, 4to, p. 57^.Sed. VI. On the Hydrocele. 535 due attention to the various fymptoms \irhich take place in each variety of the difeafe, when met with feparately, and unconnedted with others. We now proceed to the confideration of the other varieties of falfe hernia y and firft of the haematocele. CHAP-Chap. XXV, On the Hamatocele. 537 HE haematocele is a tumor in th(^ fcrotum or fpermatic cord, produ- ced by extravafated blood. The ufual feat of this difeafe is in the tunica vaginalis of the teftis ^ but, in fome inftances, it is feated in the fperma- tic procefs, and occalionally it is met with in the dartos. CHAPTER XXV On the H^matocelc* yoL. V. H Th^53§ On the Heematocele. Chap. XXV. The haematocele always arifes from the rupture or divifion of one or more blood-veflels, and it is mofl: fre- quently the elFed: of external violence. Blows upon the fcrotum, and bruifes re- ceived in riding, frequently burfl: the veins, not only in the cellular fiibftance of the fcrotum, but in the vaginal coat of the tefticle. Accidents of a fimilar na- ture have produced fimilar affedlions ih the courfe of the fpermatic cord; and, as the parts in this fituation are very lax and cellular, the rupture either of an ar- tery, or a vein of any confiderable fize, is, for the moll part, attended with a plentiful extravafation of their contents. In the tunica vaginalis teftis, a haema- tocele is fometimes induced by the point of a trocar, or of a lancet, in tapping for a hydrocele, wounding fome of the blood- veflels of the fac, which, in fuch cafes, ^ are always enlarged. We are commonly rendered certain of lyhat has happened, by the ferum, as it runsChap. XXV. On the Hamatocele. 539 runs off, being fuddenly tinged with blood 3 but, in fome inftances, it does not appear till the collection is all difcharged, when the firfl: intimation we receive of it is by the fudden appearance of a tumor in the fite of the hydrocele. I have now met with three inftances of this, in all of which the tumor produced by the ex- travafated blood arrived at a very com ^derable height in the courfe of a few hours. In fome, the difeafe is produced in a different manner. Where tho quantity of ferum has been confiderable, the fiid- den difcharge of it, by taking away the fupport which the veffels have been accu- ftomed to receive from it, is not unfre- quently the caufe of the rupture of fome of them; and, from repeated obfervation, I think it may be confidered as certain, that whenever a large tumor is produced fuddenly, that is, in the courfe of an hour or two, either in the fcrotum, or fpermatic cord, after the contents of a L 1 2 hydrocele54^' On the Hamatocele. Chap. XXV. hydrocele have been difcharged by tap- ping, that it arifes entirely from extra- vafated bloody for collections of water are never known to arrive fo quickly at a Gonfiderable lize. In the fperm^atic procefs, Injuries of the fame kind will be attended with a limilay effect upon the fmall veins of tue fac con- taining the watery and more confider- able violence has, in fome iiiftances, pro-** duced a rupture of the fpermatic artery and vein. But, In whatever way the tumor has been produced, the appearances are near- ly fimilar to thofe of watery collections in the fame parts; fo that it is not necef- fary to repeat them here, only it may be remarked, that, when blood is extrava- fated In the cellular fubftance of the fcro- tum, it is eafily difcovered from a col- lection of water by the colour, as it af- fumes all the ufual appearances of an echymofis. When the collection is feat- ed in the tunica vaginalis, the means of diftinCtionChap. XXV. On the Hcematocde. 541 diftinition are not fo obvious; but I may remark, that a tumor produced by blood is heavier than one of the fame iize pro- duced by water > and practitioners, much accuftomed to handle thefe fwellings, can, in fome inftances, judge of their contents from their confidence, by the diiference which it gives to a manual ex- amination. The treatment of this kind of tumor is nearly the fame with that pointed out in Se6l. IV. Chap. XXIV. In the commence- ment of the anafarcous' or diffufed hgema^ tocele, when produced by external vior lence, whether in the fcrotum or fperma- tic procefs, the application of ardent fpi- rits, a folution of alum, volatile liniment, or a ftrong folution of fal ammoniac in vinegar, will, in fome inflances, remove it. But, when this does not fucceed, and efpecially if the tumor acquires a greater bulk, it mull, in that cafe, be laid open, and, in every refpedl, treated in the fame manner as has been already directed for L 1 3 the542 On. the Hcematnceltk Chap. XX the hydrocele^ only I may remark, that, if a ruptured blood-veflel is dlfcovered, the only elFedlual means of preventing a return of the tumor,' is to fecure it with a. ligature. In like manner, all colledions of blood, whether in the vaginal coat of the teftis, or in the cy ft of a former hydrocele of the fperraatic cord, are to be laid open by an incifion, extending the whole length of the tumor, and,In other refpedls, treats ed exadlly as Is advifed in the fourth fec^ tion of the preceding chapter, for a hy- drocele^. And, I need fcarcely obferve, that, if any ruptured veflel comes in view in the courfe of the operation, it ought to be Immediately fecured with a ligature s other wife a conftant difcharge of blood may be looked for during the cure; the patient will be thereby much incommo- ded and weakened, and the cure unnecef- farily protraded. It fometimes happens, however, whe- ther the difeafe is feated in the fpermatic prccefs^t-Ciiap. XXV. On the Hematocele. 543 In LI4 procefs, or tunica vaginalis teftis, that the veflels from whence the blood is dif- charged cannot be difcovered; a very confiderable oozing, continuing from day to day, notwithftanding the ufe of bark, vitriolic acid, and every other means commonly employed. As patients in this lituation foon become weak and emacia- ted, one great objed: of the praditioner is to fupport them with nourifliing food. A moderate allowance of animal food proves always ufeful; nor is it found that a liberal ufe of wine does harm. In fome inftances, I have even thought that it tended to leffen the difcharges . I have uniformly, however, found, that local remedies prove chiefly ufeful, par- ticularly the application of ardent fpirits, aether, ox tindure of myrrh, to the fur- face of the fore; pledgits of foft lint, foaked in one or other of thefe^ and re- newed from time to time, not only ferve to check the difcharge of blood, but tend, for the moft part, to promote the forma- tion of good matter.544 0// the Hamatocele. Chap. XXV* In fome inftances, however, aril our en- deavours fail, and the patient continuing^ to lole ground dally, we are warranted in ^dvifing any meafure that may probably tend to fave him. In fuch circumftan- ces, the extirpation of the tefticle has been advifed. At one time, I was indu- ced to think favourably of this meafure^ but farther experience has not Ihown^ that much dependence is to be placed on it. At lead, in two cafes, in which it was .put in pradtice, ho advantage was derived from it 3 while, In both, it was the caufe of much additional diftrefs. I do not therefore mean ever to advife it again. Another variety of tumor produced by blood is mentioned by Mr Pott, in which the blood is contained within the tunica albuginia of the teftls. It proceeds, he thinks, from a relaxation or dilTolution of part of the vafcular ftrudure of the tefticle^ and, when the quantity of blood eolieded is confiderable, it produces, Mr PottChap. XXV- On the Hcematocele. 545 Pott remarks, a fluduation fomewhat like to that of a hydrocele of the tunica vagi*- nalis. When this is miftuken for a hydrocele, as it has fometimes been, and an opening with a trocar is made in it, a difcharge is produced, of a dark dufky coloured blood, nearly of the confiftence of thin chocolate; but the diminution of the tu- mor, by this evacuation, is feldom con- fiderable. The perforation, therefore, made in it with the trocar does no good; and as the tefticle is commonly fo far fpoiled by the difeafe as to be rendered quite ufelefs, ca- ftration is advifed as the only effedual re- medy I have different times met with a dif- eafe very fimilar to this defcribed by Mr Pott; but as the blood in fuch inftances did not appear to be extravafated, but to be ftill contained in the veffels of the te- ftis. Mr Pott’s Treatifc on tbe Hj^drocek.54^ Hcsmatocele. Chap. XXV. In ftis, in an enlarged varicofe ftate, I am not inclined, therefore, to refer this kind of tumor to any fpecies of hsematocele, but rather to confider.it as a variety of varix. I have even feen this variety of tumor miftaken for a hydrocele, and treated as fuch, by a trocar being plun- ged into it, when the effedts were exad- ly what are defcribed by Mr Pott. But, if the blood had been extravafated, a more copious difcharge would have ta- ken place from the perforation, than was obtained by it in any of the cafes to which I allude. Even where the tumor has been of a conliderable lize, I never found it poflible to evacuate in this man- ner, more than a fpoonful or two of blood, and although, in fuch cafes, the blood appears evidently more vifcid than in a ftate of health, it is by no means fo much fo as ftiould prevent it from being freely difcharged by the canula of a tro- car, were it lodged In a ftate of extrava- I fation. 'Chap^XXV. OntbeHamatocele. 547 • In all the cafes that I have feen of this tumor, when it was not opened, but mere- ly fupported by a fufpenfory bag, it has remained indolent and ftatlonary for many years. But whenever it has been touch- ed with an inftrument in order to dlf- charge its contents, it has from that mo- ment gone wrong. The patient who had fuffered little previous pain, foon becomes greatly diftreffed ^ the fwelling then be- gins to increafe^ feparate encyfted col- lections form in it ^ thefe laft burfl; and leave an ugly fore of an unequal furface, and a putrcfcent bloody difcharge, on which no application has any eifeCl; fo that caftration at lafl: becomes neceflary. Even this does not always afford relief^ for, in fome inftances, fuch a fpongy re- laxed fhate of the veflels takes place a- long the whole courfe of the cord, that,, though they are fccured with ligatures to-day, blood burfts out at different parts ,to-morrow. Of this I was once concern- ed in a very diflrefsful inftance. After the54^ 0/2 the Hamaiocele. Ch^p. XXVo^ the ufual operation of caftratlon, frefli haeimorrhagles occurred at every dreflingj the veflels were at different times fecured with ligatures, but to no purpofe; the blood burfl: out again and again ^ and the patient, after fuffering mufl: diftrefs from this caufe alone, at lafl: died. The chief differences ^which, before laying the parts open, can be obferVed between this variety of tumor and a hy- drocele of the tunica vaginalis, is, that in this, the fluduation is never fo evi- dent as in the other ^ the tumor is heavy in proportion to Its ffze^ the form not fo pyramidal ^as that of a hydrocele; and if properly fupported with a bandage, it does not receive any additional Increafe, Whenever thefe circumft^nces, therefore, occur in the fame cafe, they give much reafon to fufped, that the difeafe is of this kind; and therefore, that no opera- tion fhould be advifed. The patient Ihould be defired to truft entirely to a well adapted fufpenfory bag^ xo avoid fevereGhap. XXV. On the Hamatotde. 549 feyere fatigue 3 and to prevent a coftive ftate of the bowels, which in all dif- eafes of thefe parts, very coi^ftantly dpes harm. END OT VOLUlVtfi Fir’TH.PLATE yiT.IM ATE Al.H. DLizai-s Sculp5 1 I \a*X-ATE Axm .rXA'l'K XI.i\.TLATE XLY.IMvVTi: XIM( 1 I I* ■1‘L.vry. xi.x mt t. ' tTLATK L. !iLl^3»-3 Jp-If;PI^JcTE XI. ■DLl««t“sScr«Alj3 •TLATE XU.Tl.ATE J.in.OLizf Fl^VTi: LV. X>LlZBlTS.Sc<Jp9T'- iiidlib■ m"PLATE J.\I. jn^i^isrsLPLATE LTHt.rXATE LX.n.ATE l.XI. DTLAIT XXll. DLizars SctJrL1‘L A-TV, LXUt. xa.is^iF FL-^TE•« 1EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. Plate XLL Fig. T. A Speculum oris, which I pro- .XjL pofed a confiderable time ago, and which in different cafes has been ufed with advantage. By occupying lefs fpace in the mouth than the inftruments in common ufe, it may be employed where they are inadmiffible. A han- dle of timber, through which the fcrew Vql. V. Mm AC554 Explanation of the Elates. j4 C h paired, by which the plate of Iroii D may be more or lefs feparated from the fixed plate E, by turning the nut A. The plates D E fhould be fufficiently firnfi for refilling the prellure of the jaws, and covered with leather or cloth to prevent the teeth from being injured^ Fig. 2. Another form of a fpeculum for the mouth. G Two firm iron plates, which being inferted between the teeth of the upper and under jaws, may be feparated to any necelTary degree by turning the handle F. The farther ex- tremity of the plate G is intended to com- prefs the tongue, an addition which may be eafily made to fig. i. Fig. 3. The inllrument in common ufe as a fpeculum oris, but it is fo defedive that it can feldom be ufed with advan- tage. Plate XLII. Fig. I. A kind of cutting forceps, the Invention of the late Dr John Aitken: TheyExplanation of the Plates. 555 Mm2 Plate They may be employed either in the hare-lip, or for the removal of cancer of the lip: One blade of the forceps is a plane fmooth furface, while the other is furniflied with a fliarp cutting edge. In ufing this inftrument the two blades muft be prefled againft each other with one hand, with a force fufficient to divide the parts that are meant-to be cut; while the other hand is employed in fecuring the handles. Figs. 2. and 3. Forceps, for laying hold of the lip in performing the operation for the hare-lip, or in removing cancers of the lip, by which the parts are more fecurely fixed, and may be more neatly cut than when fecured with the fmgers only. In fig. 2. the blades are both lined with timber, and the blade A A being confiderably broader than the other, the lip may be divided by cutting diredly down upon it, and carrying the fcalpel in clofe contad with the fide of the op- pofite blade.556 Explanation of the Plates. Plate XLIII. Fig. I. Sciffars of a fufEcIent fize and ftrength for dividing the parts in the ope- ration for the hare-lip. Fig. 2. Cutting pliers for the purpofe of removing fmall fplinters of bone where- ever they are met with, particularly in the amputation of limbs. Plate XLIV. As the cure of the hare-lip is a point of much importance, I have judged it proper to delineate the appearance of the difeafe, together with that of the parts in which it is feated during the different ftages of the operation and cure. Fig. I. A hare-lip, in its moft common form. One of the incifores appearing in the centre of the opening, which ought to be removed before the operation, as a tooth in this fituation is very apt to in- terrupt the cure. B B, The unequal ed- gesExplanation of the Plates. 557 ges of the filllire with which hare-lip is very commonly attended. Fig. 2. The appearance of the parts after the edges of the fiffure have been removed and the pins introduced. C C, The edges of the cut, which o jght to be fmooth, equal, and exactly of the fame length on each fide, fo that when drawn together no inequality may be percep- tible. The firfl: pin Ihould be inferted near to the under part of the lip, and the upper pin near to the fuperior point of the fifiTure. The pins reprefented in this figure are furniflied with moveable fteel points, fo that the points may be taken away on the ligatures being applied, as is done in fig. 3. which exhibits the ap- pearance of a hare-lip immediately after the operation. Fig. 4. A lip after the cure is completed ^ Z), reprefents the appearance of the cica- trix, which in general lliould be nearly a ftraight line. Fig. 5. A flat pin for the operation of the hare-lip. The pin itfelf, fig. 6. Mm3 ihould558 Explanation of the Plates, Plate ihould be of gold, and the point, fig. 7^ of fteeL Plate XLV. Figs. I. 2. 3. 4. and 5. Different forms of fcaling inftruments for removing tar- tar and other extraneous matter from the teeth. Figs, 6. and 7. Inftruments that may be employed either for burning the nerve of a tooth, or for fluffing a hollow tooth with gold or lead. Fig. 8. may likewife be employed for the fame purpofe, but it Is more frequently ufed for fearching be- hind and between the teeth when there is any fufpicion of a latent caries that is not readily difeovered. Fig. 9. Another inftrument for ftuffing carious teeth. And, Fig. 10. A handle to which all thefe ffiftruments may be fitted.Explanation of the Flutes, 559 Plate XLVI. Fig. I. The inftrument commonly term- ed a key for extracting teeth. After many alterations being made in it, the one here delineated is the heft I have ever ufed. In fig. 2. the inftrument in common ufe, the claw is fixed, and can only be moved by taking put the ferew by which it is connected with the inftrument 3 but in fig. I. the claw can be moved from one fide to another, merely by prefling upon the nut by which the fpring B is raifed out of a nitch in a wheel which is thus rendered moveable, and in which the claw is fixed. C, The heel of the in- ftrument, which is here reprefented not only of a greater depth, but confider- ably longer than ufuai: Of this length it is applied to a confiderable extent of gums, by which the jaw is not fo apt to be inju- red as when the heel is much lliorter; and of this depth it aCts with more M 4 power560 Explanation of the Elates. Plate power than when of the ufual form, This part of the inftrument fliould not only be well polilhed, but thickly co- vered with feveral plies of foft old li- nen, in order to render the prelliire pro- duced by it upon the gums as eafy as pof- lible. The handle D is fometimes made of Iron; but it anfwers better either of ivory or timber. Fig. 3. A claw bent in fuch a manner, that when the heel of the inftrument C is placed upon any part of the gums, the fe- cond or third tooth farther in the mouth may be pulled with it. This provesTome- times ufeful, where the gums oppofite to the alTected tooth are particularly tender; and it fliould always be employed v^hen it is meant to pull either of the two fartheft rnoiares of the lower jaw outwards; for iu uling the common inftrument for thefe teeth, the gums that cover the projedting part of the coronoid procefs of the jaw are always much lacerated. Figs. 4. and 5. Two claws of differenr fizes of the ordinary form.Explanation of the Elates. 561 Plate XLVIL Figs. I. and 3. Two inftruments much employed in different parts of Europe for extrading teeth. They do not, however, poflefs any advantage over the key inftru- ment; and they are liable to this ob- jedion, that they cannot be ufed where a tooth muft be turned towards the infide of the mouth. Fig. I. The fulcrum, which ought to be well covered with foft old linen or cotton : 5, The claw fixed to the handle Ey by a fmall hole in the end of it, which receives a knob of a correfponding lize at C, and is retained in its fituation by a moveable plate of polillied iron Z). The handle Ihould be wood, and all the reft of the inftrument iron or fteel. Fig. 2. A claw with a confiderable degree of cur- vature, for extrading teeth at a greater depth in the mouth than the fulcrum can be placed at.562 Explanation of the Elates. Platl Fig. 3. F, The fulcrum. E, A ftraight claw fixed to the inftrument by a fcrew at H. I, The handle, which lliould be of wood. Plate XLVIII. Figs. I. 3. and 4. Different forms of forceps for extradling teeth. Fig. 3. is perhaps the mofl ufeful of any. Fig. 2. Small diffeding forceps employ- ed in different operations in the mouth, as well as in other parts. c I ^ Plate XLIX. Fig. I. Teeth forceps with moveable claws, And, Fig. 2. fulcrum toe ufed alo ng with them, both defcribed in Vol. V. page 53, Fig. 3. An inftrument for dividing the frenum linguae.Explanation of the Plates. 563 Plate L. Figs. I, 2, and 3. DifFerent forms of a punch or lever for extradling flumps of teeth. Figs. i. and 3. are the befl. They confifl of two parallel plates of polifhed iron, which may be feparated more or lefs by preiling the moveable Aiders AB higher or lower. Figs. 4, 5, 6, and 7. DifFerent forms of files for removing inequalities upon the teeth. Some of thefe fliould have one fide entirely fmooth, fo that in ading up- on a difeafed tooth, the contiguous found tooth may not be injured. Plate LI. Fig. I. A very ingenious improvement of the key-inflrument by Mr Robert Clarke, furgeon in Sunderland. The points in which this inflrument chiefly differs from the key in common ufe, are the564 Explanation of the Plates. the manner in which It is connected with the hand!; A S, the form of the claw C', and of the fulcrum or reft and the bend in the ftiank at D E, by which in dra ying teeth inwards, the ioreteeth are more certainly cleared or avoided than can be done with the common inftrument. This inlLrument is alfo fo contrived that the ciaw can be quickly changed or turned ro an oppofite diredlion, by means of a flidirig bolt palling through the claw, inftead of a fcrew ; but for a more parti- cular account of it, fee Medical Facts and Obfervations, London, Vol. VI. Article VIII. by which Mr Clarke feems to have made fome alterations in the form of the inftrument; the one that he there de- fcribes being fornewhat different from that which the cutlers here have made of it. Fig, 2. Is an inftruaient, from which, in pra*ticular ciicumftances of incontinence of urine, much advantage may be derived, it was worn by a Dutchman who prefent- ed liimfelf at this place three winters ago, with a fingular and curious conformation of5^5 Explanation of the Plates. of part of the organs of urine and gene- ration, of which an account has already been piibliihed. ABC. The body of the inftrument fo conftru£ted as to be exaftly. adapted to the parts on which it is applied: This, as well as all the reft of the machine, ihoLild be made of ftlver, with the edges properly ftuifed with leather, flannel, or cotton, for protecting the fkin on which it refts, and which is eafily done by means of a number of fmall holes round the whole of it at C. It is fixed to a circu- lar belt round the loins by two pieces of tape, one at the opening A, and another on the oppofite fide of the inftrument, which in this view of it cannot be feen, and at E there is another piece of tape which goes between the legs, and fixes it to the circular belt behind. This inftrument proves particularly ufe- ful to thofe diftrefied with incontinence of urine, accompanied with fiftulous open- ing sn the fcrotum or contiguous parts that communicate with the urethra, and 2 It566 Explafiation of the Plates*, it is even eafily adapted to thefe parts, fo as to cover entirely the fcrotmn and penis, by which it may be employed with advantage in every variety of the difeafe. When urine pafTes either from the pe- nis, or from fiftulous openings that com- municate diredlly with the bladder, it runs down to Z), the entrance into the receptacle E F, which contains feveral ounces, and from whence the urine can- not again return, but pafles out at the out-let G, as often as the patient finds It convenient to remove a well adapted cork with which the opening G fhould be fur- niflied. Plate LII. Figs, i, 2, and 3. Different forms of inftruments employed for concentrating found in cafes of deafnefs. Fig. 4. A fyringe of a proper fize for wafliing the meatus auditorius. Figs.Explanation of the Plates. 567 Figs. 5. and 6. Inftruments for perfo- rating the lobes of the ear. Plate LIII. All the figures in this plate reprefent glaffes for drawing milk from the breafts of women. With figs. i. and 3. the bread: may either be fucked by the perfon her- felf, or by an afllftant; and fig. 2. is a glafs cup, mounted with a bag of elaftic gum. Ay The glafs cup joined to the bag C by the intervention of a brafs tube B. Plate LIV. . Fig. I. An inftrument for fupporting the head after the operation for the wry neck. ABCy A curved plate of iron, covered with foft leather and properly fluffed, fitted to theflioulder, and fupporting another plate, • to 3568 Explanation of the Plated. to the top of which is connected the plate D E Fy upon which the head is meant to reft, and which fhould alfo bexovered with foft leather or cotton. GHI, a buckle and ftrap for fixing the inflrument round the neck. Fig. 2. 3. and 4* Different kinds of cups which may be either of ivory, lead or fil« ver, for covering the nipples and protect- ing them from the cloaths, when they are either chopped or otherwife difeafed. The holes in their brims are for recei- ving pieces of fmall tape for fixing them round the body. Fig. 5. A broad flat needle, of a lancet- form for introducing cords or fetons in differents parts of the body. Plate LV. Fig. I. This figure is the invention of Mr Chabet of Paris, and is taken from the fecond Volume of Memoirs of the Royal Acadamy of Surgery: It is the beft inflrument^Explanation of the Plates, 569 iiiftruiTient that has yet been publlflied for comprehing the jugular vein. Fig. 5. A curved grooved diredlor, for the purpofe of introducing a feton or cord along the courfe of an abfcefs. Plate LVL Fig. I. An inftrument for fixing the canula after the operation of broncho- tomy. a plate of thin polifhed fled, with a curvature correfponding to the anterior part of the neck. The extremities of the plate with which the ftraps CC are conneded, for the pur- pofe of fixing the inftrument by means of a buckle on the back-part of the neck. F, a moveable frame, which fliouid be made to pafs eafily up and down on the two perpendicular branches of po- lifhed fteel DDy fixed to the infide of the plate A, In this frame there is an opening a little above F, for receiving the double canula reprefented by the inferior letter F. The letter F oppofite to £, re-^ VoL. V. N n prefents57^ Explanation of the Plates. PlatI prefents a fmall fcrew, which palles through the under-part of the frame; and by prefling upon the under-part of the canula, it thus ferves to fix it exadlly where it Is placed after the operation. As the frame is made to Aide eafily up- on the two branches Z)Z>, and as the double canula F can be Inferted to any depth in the trachea, and can be fixed by the fcrew palling through the under part of the frame, this inflrument is accord- ingly found to anfwer every purprofe ex- pe6ted from it. It is the invention of Dr Monro, and it has in different cafes been employed with advantage. Fig. 2. An Inflrument for perforating the trachea in performing the operation of bronchotomy. G, The point of the perforator palling through the double ca-- nula H. Fig. 3. A reprefentation of the double canula unconneded with the perforator.JLxplariation of the Plates. 571 Plate N n 2 Plate LVII. Figs. I. and 2. Two inftrnments termed Probangs, for the purpofe of puQiing fuch fubfiances into the ftomach as are fixed in the oefophagus. It confifts of a piece of foft fponge, firmly tied to a piece of flexible whalebone, fifteen or fixteen inches in length. The whalebone (hould be well poliflied; and in order to render the iiitrodncSion of it as eafy as poffible, it flioiild be dipped in fine oil. Fig. 3. A fcarificator, for the purpofe of opening abfeefles in the fauces, or for fcarifying the amygdalae when in a ftate of inflammation. Fig. 4. The fcarificator covered with a filver canula. the handle of the fcarificator \ 5, a fcrew-nail fitted to the holes in the fcarificator; by which the length of the point to be left uncovered at the extremity of the canula G may be exadly regulated.572 Explanatioji of the Plates^ Fig. Plate LVIIL Fig. I. A flat trocar. Fig. 2* Another form of flat trocar, a very neat invention of Mr Wallace, a furgeon of eminence in Glafgow. This inftrument confifls of a llilette or perfo- rator, fig. 4. exactly adapted to the filver canula, fig. 3. The canula is open on one lide, which admits of the perforator being broader than itfelf, as is reprefented in fig. 2. By this means an opening is made by the perforator, which allows the canu- la to pafs with much eafe, and. as the fides of the canula do not fall together on the perforator being withdrawn, this inftru- ment is not liable to an objection that occurs againft the trocar of Mr Andre,, reprefented in Plate LIX. fig. 2. with which there is fome rilk of the fteel plates doing harm to the contents of the abdomen on thefe plates falling together, which they do with fome force on the canula being withdrawn.Explanation of the Plates, 573 Fig. 5. A trocar of a common triangu- lar form, for the purpofe of punduring the bladder: ^The round or triangular form of this inftrument makes it more proper for this operation than trocars with a lancet point, the fine points of thefe not being fo well adapted for the different fteps of the operation ^ and the groove in the flilette or perforator, by commencing at the point and being con- tinued through the whole length of it, ferves to mark with much certainty its entrance into the bladder, for the urine flows along the groove immediately on the point of it having entered the bladder. Fig. 6. A flat filver canula, with a fmall curvature for leaving in the opening after the operation for the empyema. Plate LIX. Fig. 2. A trocar, the invention of Mr Andre. Fig. 3. The canula of this inflru- ment is formed of two hollow plates of ^ elafllc fleel, firmly united together at their N n 3 larger574 Explanation of the Plates, larger extremities by two fcrew-naiis. The tube formed by thefe two hollow plates is of fuch a fize as to allow the perforator, fig. I. to bepufhed into it with very little force ; and the elafticity of the plates, which admits of their yielding to this paflage of the perforator, enables them to return inftantly to form the fame fize of tube, as foon as the large extremity of the inftruraent A has fairly palled the extre- mity of the plates. The point of the perforator with a fmall portion of the extremity of the tube being pulhed into the vaginal coat, the perforator is to be then withdrawn, which when the inftrument is properly made may be done without much force. The chief advantage of this inftrument is, that the point of the perforator making a larger opening than the canula, the lat- ter thereby enters with much eafe. But altho’ this invention of Mr Andre’s is neat and ingenious, It does not appear to be very neceflary 3 for, when the flat tro- car, fig. 4. of the fame plate is well finilhed, andExplanation of the Plates, 575 and the filver at the extremity of the canu- la is thin and properly fitted to the perfo- rator, it enters with fuffieient eafe, as al- fo happens with the trocar of Mr Wal- lace, defcribed in fig. 2. Plate LVIII. while neither of thefe inftruments is liable to the important objedion that occurs to that of Mr Andre, noticed in the expla- nation of that plate. The canula of Mr Andre’s infirument has alfo this difadvan- tage, that being made of polifhed fteel, It is almofl: impoflible to make it fo dry after every time it is ufed, as to prevent it from fuffering with ruft, where the two plates are fixed together by fcrew-nails Fig. 5. A fyringe for throwing liquids into the tunica vaginalis teflis in the cure of hydrocele by injedions, for which purpofe it requires to be exadly fitted to the tube fig. 2. Plate LXVI. Plate LX. In this plate is reprefented what I con- iider as an important improvement on the N n 4 apparatus57^ Explanation of the Plates. apparatus for perforating the bladder above the pubes, an operation of much moment, in fo far as it is never perform- ed but in cafes of great danger, and al- though eafily done, is apt to induce fuch a number of diftrefsful confequeiices, as nothing but a continued courfe of atten- tion, combined with much experience and many opportunities of performing the operation, can tend to obviate. By experience in different cafes I have found, that the common trocar does not anfwer fo well for this operation, as one of a larger diameter, and one of a round form anfwers better than a flat one, for a large round one does not fo readily in- jure the bladder. Fig. I. Reprefents one of a proper Ijze, both in length and diameter. A Ay a moveable cape or Ihield, fixed on the canula B by means of a ferew, and from which it can at any time be eafily remo- ved. The flits and holes in the cape, as may be more particularly feen in the front view of it, fig. 5. ferve to attach pieces of fmall tape, for the purpofe of fixing the cai^tilaExplanation of the Plates* 577 canula to a circular belt previoully fixed round the loins : As it is a point of much importance in this operation, to have the canula kept fteadily in its fituation, I have fometimes done it by fixing adhefive plafters to the cape of the canula, and ap- plying the plafters firmly upon the conti- guous parts : With fome, this has anfwer- ed better than bandages, but others have preferred the tapes attached to a circular belt. In one cafe, where it anfwered re- markably well, the cape of the canula was fewed to the circular band, by paf- fing the threads through the few fmall round holes, and the canula, as well as the belt, was prevented from moving ei- ther upwards or downwards, by two double pieces of tape, attached to the ca- nula at the long flits, two palling over the fhoulders were carried backwards and fixed to the circular band behind, while the other two being carried downwards, one on each fide of the fcrotum was alfo fixed to it behind. In this manner, after various57^ Explanation of the Plates. various methods had been tried in vain, the canula was eafily kept in its fituation. The next objedl of iniportance, Is to prevent the back fide of the bladder from being- injured by the fridion of the canu- la : This we endeavour to guard againft by uling a trocar that will not probably reach fo far ^ but even with this in view, the fharp edges of the canula are apt to hurt the bladder. This, however, is ef- fedually prevented by the addition of fig. 3. a firm fiiver wire with a round button or ftopper of fiiver £, which re- moves effectually the fharp edges of the canula, as. is feen at C, fig. 2. If E is exadly adapted to the canula, no urine gets into it, by which no calculous Incru- flation forms in it, as is apt to happen where this precaution Is not taken. I) being a plug of common cork, the flop- per is thereby prevented from falling out. The patient fhould be \rarned to re- move the ftopper frequently, and to emp- ty the bladder^ for where this negleded, theExplanation of the Plates. 579 the urine neceflarily efcapes between the bladder and canula. It is fcarcely neceflary to remark, that the canula muft In every inftancebe worn till the urine flows freely off by the ure- thra. In a great proportion of cafes this happens in the courfe of a fliort time, but in fome not till many months have elap- fed. During the inflammatory fl:ate of the difeafe, the bladder commonly forms fuch adhelions to the contiguous parts, that after the canula has remained long inferted, we might, in various inftances, withdraw it for the purpofe of clearing away any incruftations that might form, as it might, in a great, proportion of cafes, be eafily inferted again : But as thefe ad- hefions do not always happen^ and as much danger would occur from our not being able to replace the canula, it ought never to be withdrawn, till another canula is inferted, which is eafily done, in the fol- lowing manner: Let a canula be provided, fomewhat more than double the length of the other,580 'Explanation of the Elates. other, and of a fize that admits of its palling eafily through it: This canula muft confift of two pieces fcrewed toge- ther, as is reprefented at F. fig. 4. The fhorteft piece being exadly the length of the canula of the trocar, being all pafled into it, the canula of the trocar is then to be withdrawn, by pulling it along the whole length of the tube : After clearing the canula of the trocar, an attempt may be immediately made to replace it by pufhing it along the tube into the blad- der ; and in fuch attempts we commonly prove fuccefsful: But we derive a very important advantage from having the long tube previoufly inferted, as the pa- tient remains in fecurity in the event of our not being able to pafs the other again into the’ bladder, as in fome in- ftances has been the cafe : In this cafe, a cape or fhield, with an opening fitted to the diameter of the fmall tube, muft be fixed upon it at the fcrew when by undoing the connedion of the two parts of the tube at the fcrew F, a canula is left exadly'Explanation of the Platen. 58 c cxadily of the fame length with that ot the trocar, to be fixed in the fune man- ner, and fitted with a correfpoudiiig plug: or ftopper, fimllar to fig. 3. Plate LXI. The figures in this plate reprefent a fet of inftruments for the fame purpofe, as thofe in the preceding plate, a very neat and elegant invention by Dr Monro, and the following explanation of them is in the Doctor’s own words: Fig. I. A trocar of an ordinary fliape,, and of a proper fize. Fig. 2. A fteel canula with a handle : The canula is open on one hde, and thin at its point, that it may pafs eafily with the trocar into the bladder. Fig. 4. Gives a fide view of a blunt fil- ver canula, which after the trocar is withdrawn, is to be introduced through the ft eel canula, and which has a broad ftiield with holes in it for fixing it by li- gatures in its place : Two views are gi- ven582 Explanation of the Plates. ven of the canula; the oblique view of it fliews the diredlon that It fhoiild have in paffing Into the bladder, which flioiild be downwards and backwards, that it may be In lefs danger of injuring the back part of the bladder. a plate to be held between the finger and thumb, while the fleel canula is withdrawing. JS, The end of the filver canula, to be palled through a hole in a piece of waxed or oil- ed filk, and then tied to it: This piece of waxed filk faves the fkin from being exco- riated, and ferves, befides, to dired:, oc- cafionally, the urine into a bafon. Fig. 5. A fmall filver plug to be put in- to the end of the filver canula, in order to prevent the confiant efcape of urine : This is to be taken out from time to time, and the urine received into a bafon. Fig. 6. A perpendicular view of the flileld. The top of the canula. i?, a plate of metal which ferves as a han- dle, and llkewife to conned the canula ta the fliield. C, a large opening through which the handle A of the fteel tube, fig. 3. may pafs, and as the oppofite fide of the I fteelExplanation of the Plates. 583 fteel tube has a flit in It, the fteel tube can be withdrawn after the filver canula has been paffed through it ii^o the blad- der. DDDD, Holes in the fliield, by means of which, a circular flrap put round the body, may be readily connedled with it for fupporting it exadly in its proper place* Plate LXII. Fig. I. A biftoury with a probe of flexi- ble filver joined to it, for the operation of the fiftula in ano, and which In vari- ous inftances I have ufed. It will be rea- dily underftood, that this inflirument will not anfwer where the finus does not com- municate with the gut. Fig. 2. A bandage for the paracentefis of the abdomen, originally invented by the late Dr Monro. This bandage fliould be made of foft leather, lined with flan- nel. the body of the bandage, which , Ihouldbeof fuch a length as to pafs from one os ilium, acrofs the abdomen, to,-the other, to be there fixed by the ftraps BBBB584 Explanation of the Elates* Fig- BBBB to the buckles CCCC. The ftraps by palling over the Ihoulders, ferve to fix the buckles EE, which pafs through between the thighs; by which almoft eve- ry part of the abdomen may be fiifficient- ly comprelTed. When the operation of tapping is to be performed, the bandage fhould be fixed in this manner, care be- ing taken to leave the hole F open, ex- adly oppofite to the fpot in which the perforation is to be made, which for this purpofe fliould be previoufly marked with ink. On the water being all drawn off, and a pledgit applied upon the wound, the opening F muft be fiiut by the ftrap G, and the buckle H, as reprefented by the letter /. In this manner, any neceflary prefliire may be applied, which after that opera- tion is of great importance, and ought not to be omitted. Plate LXIII. Fig. 1.2. and 3. reprefent different parts of a machine for injeding tobacco-fmoke into the redum.^explanation of the Plates. 58^ Fig. I. A brafs box for containing the burning tobacco. The mark ^ is a bot-f tom or divifion in the infide of the box, perforated with fmall holes to admit the paflage of the fmoke to the extremity of the box B s which, by a male Tcrew, is adapted to a brafs tube, fig. 3. at C, which is again fitted to an elaftic leather pipe Df terminated by a common glyfter-pipe E. The pipe D is made of waxed lea- ther, protedled by brafs wire rolled , fpi- rally round it from one end to the >0- then , , ...yljK Fig. 2. reprefents the covering of the box, fig. I. to which it muft be exadly fitted. jF, a divifion of thin brafs, per- forated with a number , of fmall hples for admitting the paflage of the air from a pair of bellows fitted to the opening G. Fig. 4. The infirument completely fitted up on a fmall fcale. H, a pair of double bellows, whofe tube/ is fitted by a ferew to an opening in the cover of the box if, which again is terminated by the brafs Vox.. V. Oo tube586 Explanation of the Elates. tube L, the leather-pipe M, and the ordi- nary glylter-pipe N. The box K being filled with burning tobacco, and the glyfter-pipe N being inferted into ‘ the anus,, by working the bellows Hy any necefTary quantity of fmoke may be very quickly thrown up. It is fcarcely neceffary to obferve, that all the parts af this machine ought to be exadlly fitted to each other, with a view to prevent the efcape of fmoke at any of the joints. Bellows of the ordinary fize anfwer the purpofe y and are preferable to thofe that are fnialleri as being better calculated for injediing the fmoke quickly. The brafs-box for the tobacco fliouid be about an inch and half In diarneter, by three inches in length fram the brim to the bot- tom ; the brafs tube connedled with the box fliouid be fix inches in length, by a quarter of an inch in diameter. The leather pipe ought to be of nearly the fame diameter with the tube, and about two feet and a half in length. When of this length, it 3 'Explanation of the Plates. . 587 Fig, O o 2 is eafier managed than when fhorter ; and it ferves more efFecSually to cool the fmoke before it reaches the bowels. The glyfter-pipe, at the end of the lea- ther pipe, ought to be fomewhat larger and wider than thofe in ordinary ufe. Plate LXJV. Fig. I. Another inftrument for Injefl- ing tobacco-fmoke, originally invented by the celebrated profelTor Gaubius. The principal difference between this and the inftrument reprefented in Plate LXIII. is, that in this the tobacco-box is fit- ted to the air-hole of the bellows ^ fo that in working the bellows, the air with which they are fupplied entering at the openings By the fmoke of the burning tobacco muft accordingly pafs through them; and from the bellows it is thrown into the other parts of the inftrument, and in that man- ner tranfmitted to the inteftines. The inftrument reprefented in Plate LXIII. is wrought with more eafe than the one here delineated.588 Explanation of the Plates. Fig. 2. A crooked biftoury, with a bluni^ or probe point. The curve her-e re- prefemed is much lefs than is ufually given to this inftruinent, and the blade is alfo much narrower : It ought, indeed, to be altogether ftraight, excepting a very flight curvature towards its point. This biftoury is well calculated for di- viding the ftridure in cafes of hernia; for opening finufes in every fttuation; and particularly for dividing the redum in the operation of the fiftula in ano. Fig. 3. A biftoury with a greater cur- vature than the other, which in finufes of particular diredions fometiiries proves iifeful, Plate LXV. Fig. 2. A fpring trufs for an inguinal or femoral hernia of the right-fide. the bolfter or pad for prefling upon the opening at which the parts protrude. Bj a ftrap with holes in it for fixing upon the knobs on the back-part pf the pad. (7, a ftrapExplanation of the Plates. 589 ftrap hanging down from the back-part of the bandage, to be pafled between the legs of the patient, and to be alfo fixed upon the knobs of the pad by the holes in its extremity. This ftrap Is intended to fix the ban- dage firmly in its fituatlon; but if the bandage Is properly made, and if the fteel-fpring of which it is compofed is fufficiently elaftic, there is no neceffity for this ftrap, which always frets and galls the parts upon which it is made to pafs. Fig. I. Reprefents a bandage alfo for the right fide, but with no back-ftrap, and by means of a retch the pad can be made to comprefs the parts more or lefs even after the belt is fixed. Fig. 5. A double bandage for a hernia on each fide, with two back-ftraps con- nedled with it. The fteel of which thefe bandages are made lliould be covered with thin foft leather, properly ftulFed with wool or flannel. The pads fliould be broader than they590 Explanation of the Elates. they are generally made, with a promi- nence or flight elevation in the middle, while their fides are perfectly flat. Of this conftrudlion they apply with more exadnefs, and lit more firmly on the parts than when altogether round as they are commonly made without any flatnefs on their fides. Fig. 3. Reprefents a bandage for umbi- lical ruptures. a fteel fpring to be ap- plied upon the umbilicus after the hernia has been reduced, and to be retained in its fitiiation by the bandage which, by means of the ftraps CCC and the buckles DDDy may be kept at any de- gree of tightnefs. EE, two ftraps for paf- fing over the Ihoulders 3 and F a ftrap for paflin|’ between the legs, the whole to be fixed upon knobs on the back*part of the bandage oppofite to the fpring A. By means of thefe buckles and ftraps the bandage may be preferved very firmly in its fituation. The belt B Ihould be five or fix inches broad, and the fteel fpring A Ihould be of aExplanation of the Plates. 591 a fize proportioned to the opening it is intended to prefs upon. All the parts of the bandage fhould be of foft leather, lined with flannel or cotton Fig. 4. A filver canula for palling Into the urethra after amputating the penis: The threads attached to it are meant to fix it to a fmall circular roller round the penis. Fig. 6. A fmall director, open at the point or extremity, a very ufeful inftru- ment in the operation for the reduction of ftrangulated hernia. Plate LXVL The figures of this plate reprefent an apparatus for the cure of hydrocele with injections : The method of ufing it is de- fcribed in Chap. XXIV. Volume V. page 490. * The fpring here reprefented is taken from a figure reprefented by the late Dr Monro in his treatife on that fubje^. See his Works in 4to,Explanation of the Plates^ 592 490. The fyringe, Plate LIX. fig. 5. may alfo be adapted to fig. 2. of this platOj and ufed inftead of the bag of re- fina elaflica, fig. i. Plate LXVII* The figures of this plate reprefent a fet of inftruments for the cure of hydrocele, with a feton defcribed in Chap. XXIV* Volume V. page 441*