ANEURISM. 11] The operation is now frequently performed with a single liga- ture and without dividing the artery. When the ligature has been passed under the artery, it should be gently raised, and if it is where it ought to be, the pulsation m the sac will cease. The ligature is then to be tied very tight, the better to promote the suppuration and speedy division of the vessel, and in order that it may come away before granulations arise to entangle and prevent it. No attempts should be made to withdraw it before the tenth day, after which it should be cautiously pulled with a daily increase of force, so that it be not left after the fourteenth or fifteenth day, lest it produce irritation and mischief. For Inguinal Aneurism.—The. operation for aneurism of the femoral artery in the groin has been successfully performed by Mr. Abernethy and others. He makes his first incision about three inches in length, through the integuments of the abdomen, a little above Poupart's ligament, and to the side of the abdominal ring (o avoid the epigastric artery. He then divides the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, and afterwards cuts through the margin of the internal oblique and trausversalis with a crooked bistoury. This done, the finger must be passed between the peritonamni, on the side of the psoas muscle, where the artery will be found. A strong ligature is then to be brought round it, which is to be se- cured very tightly, as in the operation for the popliteal aneurism. For Cervical Aneurism.—Mr. Ashley Cooper has operated for aneurism of the carotid artery; and lias been, in one instance, fortunate in saving his patient.—Vide « Medico-chirurgical Transactions."—In (Ins operation the incision is made on the side next the trachea, by which the important parts will be avoided. The linger must be passed round the artery, and in passing the ligature round it special care must be taken that the par vagum is not also included. Mr. Cooper adopts the old practice of evacuating the contents of the tumor.