572 UUNTElilAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. the anterior parietes of thorax and abdomen and most of the viscera removed, to show " The testicles, of the size of small pin's heads, just before the kidneys at their upper end." This and the next two (or similar) specimens are referred to by John Hunter in his paper "On the Glands called Vesiculae Seminales" (Animal Oeconomy, Vol. IV. of Palmer's edition, p. 28), as follows: "Animals have their natural feelings raised or increased according to the perfection of the parts connected with such feelings. But, that these feelings may be duly excited, it is necessary that the animal and the parts should be healthy, in good condition, and a certain degree of warmth suitable to that class to which the animal belongs. In the greatest part of the globe there is a difference in the warmth of the same district at different periods, constituting the seasons; and the cold in some of them is so considerable as to prevent these feelings or dispositions in animals from taking place, and to render them, for the time, unfit for the purposes of generation. This is owing to the testicles becoming at this season small, and being therefore unfit to give such dispositions, as is the case in very young animals. This fact is very obvious in birds, of which the sparrow may be produced as a proof. For if a cock sparrow is killed in the winter, before the days have begun to lengthen, the testicle will be found very small; but if that organ is examined at different times in other sparrows as the warmth of the weather increases, and if this examination is continued into the breeding season, the difference in the size of the testicles will be very striking. This circumstance is not peculiar to birds, but is common, as far as I know, to all animals which have their seasons of copulation." See next two specimens. 42.103. The Testicles in an "Old Sparrow in Winter." Hunterian. Y. 75. A similar preparation. The testicles are very little larger than in the young one. 42.104. The Testicles in an "Old Sparrow in April. ' Hunterian. Y. 76. " The testicles are now about the size of a sparrow's egg, that is, two or three hundred times larger than they were in winter." They are rather larger than the heart, which is seen just in