576 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. bladder was also wanting, and the posterior part presented itself in place of the external integuments; it was inflamed, and a little concave; the orifices of the two ureters appear, and the urine flowed perpetually either in small gushes or drop by drop; on the upper side of the glans penis appeared the orifices of the vasa deferentia with the large lacuna between. The vesiculae seminales are seen behind, and most of these circumstances are pointed out by bristles." The umbilical arteries, running up over the back of the bladder, are also indicated by bristles. The umbilicus is not seen in the specimen. 43.2. Congenital Distension of the Urinary Bladder; Sacculation of the Ureters; Cystic Kidneys. Hunterian. AA. 31. " The lumbar vertebrae and pelvis of a child at birth ; the lower part of the left ureter is dilated into a bag, very nearly as large as the bladder itself; the same disposition seems to be taking place in the lower end of the other ureter; both kidneys are shrunk almost to the size of kidney beans ; the left was even beginning to take on the hydatid appearance on its outside; the arteries are injected red." The aorta, bladder, ureters, and kidneys are carefully dissected. The bladder is of elongated shape, and rises well above the pubis, as is usual in infants, and it is considerably distended; the ureters enter it above the level of the brim of the pelvis. A bristle in the urethra shows that this passage is patent. The left ureter shows three globular dilatations, the lowermost, close to the bladder, being almost as large as the bladder itself, and its walls are of fair thickness considering the size of the subject—not much thinner than those of the bladder. There is no obstruction of the orifice of the ureter, a bristle placed in it being freely movable. There is another bristle between the lowest and middle pouches, and the middle and upper communicate freely. There is a fourth small dilatation above this, and the rest of the ureter is contorted but not dilated. The left kidney is smaller than normal, and is cystic to a very considerable extent. The right ureter presents a small dilatation close to the bladder; its orifice is visible but has no bristle in it, and an attempt to pass one (for fear of injuring the specimen not very determined) was unsuccessful. The rest of the ureter is normal in thickness and less convoluted than the left. The right kidney is very small, not much larger than a pea, and solid,