THE UMBILICAL CORD AiVD URACHUS. 687 shows the bladder turgid with quicksilver, to prove the urachus is impervious; in the place of the urachus a ligament is seen dissected off from between the arteries; this is continued all the way to the placenta." William Hunter held the erroneous opinion that the allantois did not exist in the human embryo. He states, in the Description of the Gravid Uterus (p. 53), that "Quadrupeds, great and small, have an allantois ; in all of them the membrane itself is distinctly visible; the urachus is easily seen; any fluid thrown into the bladder passes without difficulty along the navel string, and fills the allantois; two collections of fluid, viz., liquor amnii and urine, are seen and distinguished at first sight. From these facts we might presume, a priori, that there were similar appearances in the human subject, and these as much more striking in the human foetus than they are in a kitten, as that is larger than this. But in fact none of these appearances are seen in the human subject, and therefore we must conclude that the similar parts do not exist." The allantois is now known to be formed in the human embryo, but to attain only a very small size, and to become very early unrecognizable to the naked eye. Its stalk, the urachus, persists as the ligamentous thread rising from the apex of the bladder and running out into the umbilical cord, which is shown in this and the succeeding specimen. See the general introduction for discussion of William Hunter's views. Compare Comparative Anatomy specimens Nos. 48.253-256, and 48.259 and 260. 48.82. The Urachus. Hunterian. BE. 82. " A portion of the cord spread open, to show this ligamentary substitute of urachus in its centre." (c) The Fully Developed Placenta and Membranes. Specimens Nos. 48.83 to 48.103, illustrate in a general way most of the points in the anatomy of the placenta and membranes, from mid-term to the end of gestation, as described by William Hunter. Then from 48.104 to 48.158 the specimens traverse the same ground, but in more detail. This arrangement is that which was followed in the old catalogue, and it was considered right to follow it in the new on account of the large number of specimens available.