COMPARATIVE ANATOMY OF THE PLACENTA. 747 "from the sheep," an obvious slip; No. 48.243 is a similar prepara- tion from the sheep. (In this portion of the old catalogue there are numerous errors, as if the specimens had at some time got mixed up and been wrongly labelled by some person who did not under- stand them, vide Preface.) 48.243. Polycotyledonary Non-deciduate Placentation. Sheep. Hunterian. BIL 322. One cornu of the gravid uterus of a sheep, inverted, and the foetal membranes removed, showing numerous cotyledons or placentulae. In contrast with the specimens from the cow, while the transparent non-placental parts of the foetal membranes have been removed, the placental parts of the chorion remain embedded in the cotyledons of maternal tissue; compare succeeding specimens, which show the two portions separated. The uterine arteries are injected red, the veins blue; foetal arteries green, veins yellow. 48.244. Cotyledon of Placenta of Sheep. Hunterian. BR. 323. A single cotyledon from the same uterus as the preceding, dried, and mounted in turpentine. The placentula is a globular knob, about 2-5 cm. in diameter, set into the uterine wall up to about a third of its height. Its sides are clothed by a prolongation of the highly vascular uterine mucous membrane, and its apex is occupied by the narrow base of the foetal portion of the placenta. 48.245. Placentula of Sheep. Maternal and Foetal Portions Separated. Himterian. EE. 324. Part of the gravid uterus and foetal membranes of a sheep, showing a single placentula. The foetal portion has been drawn out of the maternal, and hangs below with part of its clear membranes. The uterine arteries have been injected red, the veins blue; the foetal vessels are uninjected. The maternal portion is cut at the sides, and also one side has been torn in the extraction of the globular foetal portion. In the section of the maternal portion appears the outer layer of mucous membrane, running up to the neck of the foetal portion. Enclosed in that, and connected with it by a stratum of loose fibrous tissue, is a distinct fibrous sac perforated by II. z