443 CARCINOMA OF THE STOMACH. The boundary between stomach and oesophagus is hardly recogniz- able. There is a general thickening and distortion, but little ulceration. The central tendon of the diaphragm adheres to the outside of the fundus. Microscopic examination shows the tumour to be carcinoma, originating from the stomach. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 25.) "From a j^oor woman in Swallow Street: she imagined that nothing lay on her stomach for six months before her death." Compare next specimen. 34.23. Carcinoma of the Stomach, involving almost the Whole Organ. Hunterian. 0. 58. The upper part from the same stomach as the preceding, showing the carcinomatous growth extending from the cardiac orifice along the lesser curvature to the pylorus ; the organ is thickened and drawn together. There is slight thickening of the upper edge of the pylorus. The two orifices are within about 6 cm. of one another, and the hollow of the curvature is filled up by a mass oi' carcinomatous lymphatic glands. The cardiac orifice appears to be patent though somewhat obstructed by the gastric tumour; the oesophagus is involved for a considerable distance. Compare preceding specimen. 34.24. Carcinoma of the Stomach. Lesser Curvature. Hunterian. 0. 55. The greater part of a stomach, including the cardia and fundus, inverted, showing a general thickening of the wall of the stomach about the lesser curvature with some overgrowth of the mucous membrane and patches of ulceration. The edge of the tumour is not well defined, and is indicated by bristles. There are also visible a few lymphatic glands secondarily infiltrated. The mesentery was extensively involved. See Series 36, Nos. 113-114. The micro- scopic structure is that of a carcinoma, with a good deal of round cell infiltration around the epithelial processes. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 24.) No history. 34.25. Carcinoma involving the Whole Stomach. Marked Contraction. Hunterian. 0. 54. "A longitudinal section through oesophagus, stomach and pylorus, from an old woman; everywhere thickened and scirrhous; the II. D