554 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. glandular tissue is enclosed in a very thick, strong, fibrous mem- brane—the tunica albuginea testis; and at the point where the section is incomplete, a spongy fibrous mass, which is called the mediastinum testis, can be seen extending from the albuginea for a little way into the glandular mass. From it fine fibrous trabeculae (rather indistinct in this specimen) pass across the organ to the tunica albuginea at the other side. These three structures together form the supporting stroma of the testicle. Compare succeeding specimens. 42.35. The Fibrous Framework and Nutrient Blood-vessels of the Testicle. Hwiterian. Y. 18a. A testicle injected, the arteries red, the veins black, split open and partly unravelled, showing the above. In the middle of the specimen is seen the mediastinum. The arteries and veins run out from it along the inside of the tunica albuginea and in the trabeculae, forming a rich plexus. The old catalogue says of the arteries and veins that " neither the one nor the other can be traced into a tube," a reference to a theory current in the early part of the eighteenth century, that fine branches of blood-vessels terminated in the secreting tubes of glands, a view to which William Hunter was opposed. See introduction. 42.36. The Blood-vessels and Tubules of the Testicle. Hunterian. Y. 19. A testicle injected red by the arteries, black by the veins (the red degenerated into brown from impurities in the vermilion). The tunica albuginea is turned up at one side, and part of the glandular parenchyma removed, showing how the coiled tubules are arranged in elongated conical lobules, between which the larger branches of nutrient vessels run a straight course from the mediastinum across the organ. There is also an abundant plexus of vessels ramifying on the epididymis. 42.37. The Tubular Substance of the Testicle. Hunterian. Y. 21. A portion of the gland finely injected red, and slightly dissected, to show the imperfectly separated lobules in which the coiled tubules are arranged.