789 DOUBLE MONSTERS. part of the tarsus is also single, but ends in a broad head with which are articulated two tarso-metatarsal bones and feet. The feet have only three digits apiece, the inner rudimentary toes of both being absent. The feet are a right and a left, and they are turned so as to make the soles look forwards. At the articulation the metacarpals are in apposition by their inner sides, but a little below it they cross, and the outer sides of the feet are thus brought into apposition. The nature of the extra limb is difficult to make out from this specimen alone, but comparison of it with Professor Cleland's descriptions {Proceedings of the Philosophical Society of Glas- gow, 1885 86, Vol. XVII.), and with the next specimen, and con- sideration of the position of the two cloacal orifices, prove that it is a compound of the two adjacent limbs of two different pelves, the inner parts of which have been suppressed or never formed. The monstrosity therefore belongs to the class dipygus, or duplicity of the posterior end of the body. 50.12. Dipygus Dibrachius. Chick. Presented by Professor J. B. Cowan, 1869. (Thoradelphe.) A chick with four legs, two tails, two sacral bones, two cloacal apertures, and the normal number of wings. In this specimen the doubling of the pelvis is distinct though incom- plete, and the additional pair of hind limbs clearly belong to different pelves. They are turned backwards in the direction which is outwards relative to the long axes of their respective pelves, so as to unite by their inner and anterior surfaces, and so that their joints bend in the reverse direction, the soles looking forwards. They appear well formed, and the bones are all separate; the anterior soft parts are fused, and the inner digits of the feet are together. The two outer and the right supernumerary feet have only one of the rudimentary inner toes, but the left supernumerary foot has two as in the Dorking breed of fowls. 50.13. Lamb with Additional Hind Limbs. Dipygus Dibrachius. Hunterian (?). (Ileadelphe : Dareste.) A stuffed lamb with four hind legs. The two inner legs have the appearance of appended legs; they are placed considerably in the rear of the two outer, which in these cases are generally the ones that the animal uses. In this case.