628 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. pendulous polj'pus from the fundus seen also : both ovaria scir- rhous ; one is ossified quite, and both as large as oranges ; os tincae makes here a round hole, not an oval: she was reputed indeed as a maid ; about 50." The ovaries are absent, and what are described as ovaries are two myomata projecting before and behind the uterus. One of these is almost completely calcified, like a stone; the other shows here and there points of calcification. The cavity of the fundus was distended by a mucous polypus, which is turned upwards out of it. 45.49. Myoma of the Uterus. Externally Calcified, inter- nally Softening. Hmderian. CC. 69. " Uterus and vagina slit open : a large ossified tumour about the size of a child's head at birth, appears to have grown in the substance of the fundus; internally (for it is almost divided into two) it seems to have been cellular, and to have contained a fluid." The tumour is a myoma, a thin outer shell of which is completely calcified. Around the mass is a sac which is identified as the uterus by the presence of the cut ends of the Fallopian tubes and broad ligaments at its sides. The uterine walls have been ulcerated to such an extent that the tumour is almost free in its cavity, and the walls are very thin, in one place actually perforated. There is a considerable cavity in the tumour due to softening and breaking down, from cutting off" of the blood supply. 45.49a. Large Degenerating Myoma—Fibro-cystic Tum- our of the Uterus. Presented by Dr. T. K. Dahiel, 1898. One half of a large tumour of the uterus successfully removed through the abdomen by amputation about the level of the os internum. The growth is about as large as the average adult human head. It consists of two rounded interstitial myomata distending the anterior wall of the uterus, the cavity of which is bent backwards beneath the growth and somewhat enlarged. There are numerous irregular cavities of various sizes, which had mucous contents. Microscopically it is a myoma, and the cysts are cavities produced by degenerative changes. Above it hang the Fallopian tubes and ovaries—to all appearance normal.