784 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. give evidence of their double origin by forming a quadrilateral aperture (compare Cyclopians). The larger head (right) has per- fectly formed oesophagus, larynx, and trachea ; the other, besides having no lower jaw, has neither oesophagus nor air passages. A small orifice in front of the left ear of the left head, marked by a piece of whale-bone, is probably the remains of the second branchial cleft. " The carotids are injected, the left, as going to the supernumerary head as well as to the left side of the right one, is largest." The branches to the left head come off about the same level as the bifurcation into external and internal carotid for the right head. There is no description of heart and lungs, but doubtless they were normal. The duplication is limited to the head. 50. 3. Diprosopus Tetrophthalmus. Kitten. Pjy-srufed III/ Profe.tsor Yiiung, 1897. (Opodyme.) A new-born male kitten, illustrating the above, not dissected. The two heads are united laterally, the faces diverging from one another at a fairly acute angle. The cranium is apparently single in the occipital region, but it widens out immediately in front, being clearl}' double in the parietal region. There are only two ears, placed on the outer sides of the heads. There are four eyes, which are of course closed. The two inner almost meet at their adjacent corners. The upper jaws, noses, and outside lower jaws are well formed; the inner lower jaws are short and undersized. 50.4. Diprosopus Triotus. Sheep. Huntermn {?). (Opodyme.) The skull, all the cervical and the first dorsal vertebrae, and first pair of ribs of a fidl grown sheeji; most of the soft parts dissected off, and the specimen dried and varnished. The arteries have been injected red, the veins blue, and the larger blood-vessels and the larynx, trachea, oesophagus, and tongue have been carefully dissected and preserved. There are two heads united by their posterior regions, the anterior parts diverging at a very wide angle. The vertebral column is single. The occipital bone also gives no distinct evidence of duplicity. All the other parts of the skull are more or less doubled. There are four completelj^ distinct and separate orbits. Part of the