835 SINGLE MONSTERS. continuation of the whole somatopleure. The umbilical cord rises from its apex. Male. 50.114. Fissura Abdominalis. Anencephalia and Amyelia. Human. Hunterian. MM. 55. (Aspalosome.) "A child whose head is bent upwards and sunk between the shoulders; there is a deficiency of brain, the eyes being at the top of the head, and there is a thin bag hanging down from the head behind; the spleen and almost the whole of the intestines are out of the cavity of the abdomen." The vertebral canal is open. Among the intestines are a few shreds of the thin membranous sac in which they had been contained. 50.115. Fissura Abdominalis. Retroflexion of Body and Spina Bifida. Human. Hunterian. MM. 20. (Agenosome.) "A child, female, about the ninth month," with non-closure of the abdomen, and the viscera prolapsed into a membranous sac, which " was very large," but has mostly been cut away. Injected red. All the viscera a,re readily identified. The end of the small intestine is recognizable by the presence of a vermiform appendix. The great intestine is represented by a wide sickle-shaped diverticulum, about 3 cm. long, which runs up the middle of the abdomen and ends blindly above. Its orifice is at the point where the small intestine and the vermiform appendix join it; and it opens into a cloaca along with three other orifices, by two of which a probe passes to right and left into the two cornua of a bifid uterus, and the third, in front, leads into the urachus, which is dilated into a cavity representing the urinary bladder. The orifices of the ureters could not be found. The Fallopian tubes and ovaries lie close to the lower ends of the kidneys. The external genitals are represented by a little fold of skin on the inside of either leg, at a considerable distance from one another. There is a small spina bifida in the sacral region. The lower half of the body and lower limbs are flexed considerably back- wards and to the left. The anterior parts of the pelvic girdle are absent. The posterior part seems to be narrowed and flattened backwards. The femora are thus articulated close together, and the legs are rolled outwards so as to turn the feet backwards and bring their outer sides together as occurs in sympodia. The feet are well formed.