718 HVNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 48.158. Uterus in the Fifth Month Opened, showing the Membranes and the Enclosed Foetus. Hunterian. Rli. 193. This specimen forms the subject of fig. 4, PI. XXVI. of William Hunter's Gravid Uterus. It consists of the uterus and append- ages "from the tenth subject, in the 5th month." It is finely injected red. The patient died from the effects of I'etroversion of the uterus, the circumstances of which are represented in the other figures of the plate. The recognition and description of this condition was one of the most fruitful of Hunter's discoveries in the way of saving lives. The specimen shows "the os uteri turned upwards. All around it is seen the inside of the adjacent parts of the vagina." The os is a small transverse slit. A por- tion of the muscular wall of the uterus, and most of the corre- sponding part of the decidua, has been cut out, leaving, as it were, a window filled by the transparent chorion and amnion, through which is seen the foetus lying on its back upon the inside of the fundus uteri. At the lower right hand corner of the preparation is seen " the external surface of part of the decidua. This membrane was thick and opaque, and full of small arteries, Avhich were injected from the womb. The Avhite loose lines on the chorion are the remains of the filamentous vessels which pass from it into the decidua "—the remains of the villi of the chorion ; compare succeeding specimens. This preparation is shown in the painting by Sir Joshua Reynolds in the picture gallery of the museum, which is the best known portrait of William Hunter. SECTION in. Development of the Human Ovum, showing the Changes in THE Villi of the Chopjon, the Formation of the Placenta, Arrangement of the Decidua, and Develop- ment AND Growth of the Embryo from about the Third Week after Conception. {a) Development of the Foetal Membranes, Decidua, and Placenta. 48.159. Human Ovum, probably in the Third Week. Hunterian. EE. 198. " An ovum, very young, perhaps two weeks." The specimen is