640 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 45.97. Portion of Large Ovarian Cystoma. Stretching of Fallopian Tube. Hunterian. CC. 50a. "Uterus, adult, slit open; left ovarium was dropsical to a very- large size; a portion still remains and consists of a jellying fluid in large cells." The specimen, as regards the tumour, is not good, but it shows a remarkable elongation of the Fallopian tube, which measures 30 cm. (about 12 inches). The tube has unfortunately been dissected clear, and its relations thereby destroyed; it hangs down beside the remains of the tumour, which must have been a very large one. The uterus is stretched and twisted to one side. 45.98. Portion of a Cystoma of the Ovary, Hunterian. CC. 50b. One of the "cells" from the preceding, cut open to show the coagulated contents. 45.99. Papilloma of the Ovary. Hunterian. CC. 90. The specimen, formerly described as a "very loose and very bloody polypus of the uterus," turns out on microscopic exami- nation to be of the nature of a papilloma of the ovary. It has been partly split and the halves laid back, so as to show the interior of the cysts. It has been about the size of a goose's egg; it is composed of cysts, of very irregular shapes and sizes, separated by fibrous walls, which are from -5 to 2 mm. thick, in some parts smooth, in others covered with numbers of small papillae. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 124.) 45.100. Papillomatous Cyst of the Ovary. Hunterian. CC. 45c. The anterior half of the body of the uterus with the appendages of both sides. The right ovary is cystic, and rather larger than a pigeon's egg. The largest cyst, projecting outwards beyond the end of the Fallopian tube, was opened with a view to ascertaining its nature, when it was found to contain a clear fluid and a soft yellowish coagulum, on removing which two small clumps of warts were discovered. One of the other small cysts also contains warts. The broad ligament is spread out to show the relations of the cyst, which is clearly of ovarian origin. There are two small subserous myomata projecting from the surface of the uterus.