722 HUNTER!AN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. chorion fully 2-5 cm. in diameter. There are comparatively few villi on its exterior, and these are much less aggregated than in the preceding. The principal mass of them is at some little dis- tance from the embryo, and no connection between it and the embryo is visible. The embryo is larger than in the preceding, and more advanced, the branchial clefts being hardly recognizable. The mouth is better formed. The eye is a white spot on the side of the head towards the front. The old catalogue says: " an ovum laid open where a foetus may be seen; it is an oblong body, enlarged at one extremity where the head is, which is at this period much larger than afterwards in proportion to the bulk of the body; and there is scarce any appearance of the upper and lower extremities; there is as yet no appearance of navel-string, the ovum being about a month old, but the child adheres closely to the membranes; there is a considerable bag seen adhering to the chorion called vesicula umbilicalis, which towards full time degenerates into a white opaque spot or dis- appears entirely." Compare Nos. 4:8.197 and 48.198. 48.167. Human Ovum and Embryo of " about Six Weeks." Hunterian. RIL 208. " Ditto, further advanced, perhaps about six weeks." The specimen appears to correspond with fig. 6 of PI. XXXIII. of the Gravid Uterus (hung upside down as regards the figure) where it is described as " an abortion of about eight weeks." The embryo is considerably larger than in the preceding. The front of the neck has given way, destroying the anteflexion of the head, which has clearly been present. Apparently it must have measured in a straight line from the neck bend to the hinder end of the body about 13 mm. The thorax and abdomen are closed, but the anterior parietes are so thin and transparent that the outlines of the heart and liver appear quite clearly through them. At the sides there seem to be faint indications of the branchial clefts—the tearing interferes with a proper esti- mate of their condition. The buds of the limbs with the rudiments of the fingers and toes are quite distinct. The lamina of the chorion hanging down shows few villi, but the other part, to which the embryo is attached by a well defined umbilical cord about 5 mm. in length, is thickly covered by them; and parts of the mass form a solid structure, clearly the beginning of the