864 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. laminated structure of the outer parts. The fractured surface shows a shading off from the large crystals of the centre into smaller crystals in the inner laminae and a decidedl}' amorphous appearance of the cholesterine in the outer narrower laminae. In colour its layers vary from yellowish white to brown; externally it is of a rich brown colour. Consists of almost pure cholesterine. Just floats in water. *52.20. Laminated Cholesterine Gall Stone. Hunterian. Half of a beautiful little calculus composed of fine laminae of various colours (from waxy pale yellowish white to brown) of nearly pure cholesterine, which is for the most part distinctly crystalline, deposited round a small hollow nucleus of loose crystalline choles- terine mixed with bilirubin calcium. Its outside is faceted, in colour yellow, polished to a pearly lustre. It is a very dense stone, and sinks rapidly in water. " This concretion Dr. Walker has examined, and finds to be perfectly similar to the agate, viz., a cavity in the centre, surrounded by a mass of crystals with their points directed inwards, shooting from a circular basis, which is surrounded by a number of concentric laminae, and these intersected by radii passing from towards the centre outwards or towards the circumference. The laminae of this concretion of different colours as in agate." (Hunterian Plate I., fig. 14.) 52.21. Laminated Cholesterine Gall Stones. Hunterian. A boxful of similar calculi, dense and finely laminated. Sink in water. 52.22. Laminated Cholesterine Gall Stones. Hunterian. A boxful of small dark brown calculi, consisting of cholesterine with a considerable amount of bilirubin calcium intimately mixed with it. Externally faceted and smooth, but not polished. 52.23. Laminated Cholesterine Gall Stones. Hunterian. Four faceted but not polished brown calculi, one broken showing its structure. It consists of a small centre of loose crystalline cholesterine and bilirubin calcium, and outer parts of dense laminae of the same materials, of varying shades (from pale yellow to dark brown). Sink in water. About the size of hazel nuts.