HUNTElilAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 830 teen days. 1864." Name of donor obliterated. The walls of the cysts are thin skin, and are covered with fine hairs. That on the left is larger, nearly as big as the head; it is opened, and is found to communicate with the interior of the skull by a round aperture in the bone, which admits the point of the thumb, just above the supraorbital ridge. Through this the brain can be felt. The other cyst communicates with the cranial cavity by a smaller hole similarly situated on the right. 50.104. Notencephalus. Human. Huntenan (i), (Exencephale: St. Hilaire.) A large female foetus with well- formed limbs. The head is retroflexed upon the neck to an extreme degree, lying almost wholly behind the axis of the body; the eyes, large and prominent, look upwards and, if anything, backwards. The top of the head is flat, and the fore- head slopes actually downwards behind the eyes; the vault of the cranium from the frontal bones back is deficient, as in posterior hemicrania. There is practically no neck. Immediately below the back of the head, below the level of the shoulders, lies a large symmetrical bilobed mass, which is the brain. It occupies the dorsal region, lying on the top of a flat open vertebral canal; reaches from side to side of the body, and measures 4 cm. in the axis of the body, 10 cm. across. Below it is a cicatricial membranous area, 4*5 cm. wide by 3 cm. long, under which can be felt the bodies and flattened-out arches of the lumbar vertebrae; the sacral region is clothed with unaltered skin. The sac (dura mater) of the right side has been removed to show the brain. The cerebral hemispheres are almost in contact at their anterior ends, then diverge so that the corpus callosum comes fully into view. At the posterior end of the hemisphere lies the right half of the cerebellum, separated by a distance of 5 cm. from its fellow of the opposite side. The fore limbs, the posterior part of the body from the lower lumbar region, and the lower limbs are well formed. 50.105. Notencephalus with Meningocele. Human. Fro7n Dr. Allen Thomson's Collection. (Exencephale.) A female foetus of about seven months, with the head greatly retroflexed and flattened on the top, and the cranium deficient behind, as in the preceding. The back of the head lies