527 THE BLOOD-VESSELS OF Tllbl KIDNEY. 40.32. The Structure of the Glomeruli. Hunteritm. X. 29. " A thin slice from the external surface of a kidney, finely injected, the arteries red, the veins white ; the termination of the artery is seen to be a convolution on itself, and not a bag, as imagined by Malpighi." But there is a bag after all—viz., the capsule of Bowman. The white injection has faded. Dried and mounted on mica in spirit. Compare No. 40.27. 40.33. The Structure of the Glomeruli. Hunterian. X. 30. Similar to the preceding, but not dried. 40.34. Very Fine Injection of the Kidney. The Urini- ferous Tubules. Hunterian. X. 45. " One half of adult human kidney, beautifully injected red; the injection, which was size, coloured with vermilion, passed into the veins, passed also through the tubuli uriniferi into the pelvis, having performed the round of the secretion; the tubuli are easily distinguished from the arteries, which, towards the point of the nipple, become smaller, whereas the former, by uniting with each other, become larger; in this injection, the cryptae (glomeruli) appear most evidently convoluted artery." A lens is required for proper examination of this specimen. In his lectures, William Hunter states that the tubuli uriniferi cannot be filled with injection from the arteries except by extravasation, which is, doubtless, what has happened in this specimen. The particles of a fine injection might pass between the endothelium of the capil- laries, and between the epithelium of the tubules, without pro- ducing the appearance of a large extravasation, in such a dense, firm organ as the kidney. 40.35. Very Fine Injection of the Kidney. The Urini- ferous Tubules, Hunterian. X. 46. " The kidney of the other side; the veins only were injected, and with the same success; nothing can be redder than this preparation, except at the points of the mamillae, where the injection found so easy an outlet as to leave the tubuli at their orifices in many places." See preceding specimen.