SINGLE MONSTERS. 815 50.63. Cyclopia. Human. Hunterian. MM.^la. (Rhinocephale.) "The head and shoulders of a monstrous child, having no nose, no eyes ; it has apparently something like two eye- lids, but placed in the middle where the nose should begin; over them hangs a proboscis broad at its base or pendulous end and becoming narrower at its attachment. It appears perforated in the middle for a little way, and seems an attempt towards forming a nose." On close examination all four eyelids are found to be present. Their relations are exactly the same as in the preceding. The eye- balls are not recognizable, but two conjunctival sacs are distinctly recognizable. They are joined below by a deep cleft, the remains of the lachrymal fissure, which in the early embryo connected the orbit with the nose. The anterior fossa of the skull is narrow. Brain removed. 50.64. Cyclopia. Human. Hunterian. MM. 16. (Cyclocephale.) A female foetus, with the anterior parietes of thorax and abdomen, limbs, cranial vault, and brain removed. " There was a cranium and brain, but very small proportioned to the size of the child ; the four eyelids seem to be jumbled together, as if they belonged to one eye in the middle of the forehead ; the eye itself is wanting, and in the place of the nose is a smooth flat surface; contents of thorax and abdomen large and vascular." It is a similar condition to the preceding, but the coalescence of the orbits is more complete. There is only one conjunctival sac; the eyeballs are not recognizable. The base of the anterior fossa of the skull is very narrow, and there is only one optic foramen. Above the orbit, instead of a rounded proboscis projecting from the forehead like in the preceding, there is a broad rounded skin-covered membranous sac, which contained a hernia cerebri (encephalocele). The frontal bones form a thin rim round the borders of this projection. See next specimen for the brain. 50.65. Brain of Cyclopian Monster. Hunterian. MM. 17. "The contents of the cranium from the preceding monster; cerebellum, with medulla oblongata, is very perfect but small, and cerebrum, which forms an oblong mass, is not above one fifth of its natural size." The specimen is not well preserved, but taken along with the skull it shows, in addition to the above points, that