644 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. distinct fangs. The other side of the preparation shows half of the uterus, part of the vagina, and the appendages of both sides twisted back and matted together with the rectum, in a manner which strongly suggests, and doubtless did suggest to William Hunter, the above view of the source of the teeth. There are also portions of one or two small abscess cavities. {d) Malignant Tumours of the Ovaries, Broad Ligaments, and Fallopian Tubes. 45.110. Carcinoma of the Ovary. Eunterian. CC. 45&. Part of a large tumour, on the side of which, near its upper end, is perched one half of the uterus, while part of the left Fallopian tube extends out over the tumour, attached to it by the meso- salpinx, which is there about 2 cm. broad. The tumour mass clearly belongs to the posterior aspect of the broad ligament, and springs from the position of the ovary. It is altogether below the level of the fundus uteri; its long diameter lies nearly in the same direction as that of the uterus, and measures 19 cm. In breadth it measures 8 cm. What was its original position in the body and its relation to the uterus is unknown. It is contained in a ■well-defined thin fibrous capsule, which is smooth externally. There have been several largish cysts, but they have collapsed, and the rest of the tumour is fairly solid, with only minute cysts. Microscopic exami- nation shows the tissue to be fairly well preserved. Where it is least cystic it presents the character of a glandular carcinoma, with small fairly regular alveoli lined with short columnar epithelium. As the alveoli get larger they are found filled with polygonal epithelial cells, and lastly, there are cysts containing only debris like mucus and a few nuclei. It is a carcinoma of the ovary. (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 114.) 45. 111. Carcinoma of the Ovary, Hunterian. CC. 46. A large mass, of irregularly rounded shape, about 17 cm. in its largest diameter, being part (the larger part probably) of a tumour of the ovary. The uterus, as in the preceding, lies close to the side of the mass and in front of it, the round ligament of the ovary being visible in the angle between tumour and uterus. The Fallopian tube, after passing out a short way clear