470 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. colour, not unlike a worm in appearance, measuring 17 cm. in length by 2 cm. in diameter. It is somewhat pointed at one end, broken at the other. From end to end it is marked by regular deep circular furrows and ridges. It had been cut across in two places. It is clearly not a worm, but a cast in blood-clot of the cavity of some part of the intestines; from the depth of the ridges and furrows corresponding to the valvulae conniventes, and from the history of the case, probably the duodenum. It has been identified with an illustration in Med. Obs. and Inq., Vol. I., PI. III., fig- 2. An exceedingly curious account of it is given on pages 68 et seq., of the same volume, under the title : "An Account of a Worm bred in the Liver," communicated in a letter to Dr. John Clephane by Dr. Thomas Bond, of Philadelphia, dated May 1, 1754: " Since my last, the following remarkable case has fallen under my observation. Mrs. Holt, a widow lady in this city, was, about 18 months before her death, affected with a pain in the right side, which in the beginning was like the stinging of a bee, or the pricking of a pin. This pain daily increased, and gradually ex- tended until it occupied a great part of the right hypochondriack region. It was at first in the side only, but after some months was felt alternately in the side and shoulder. Through the whole of her illness she had intervals of ease, these towards the latter end of her case were short, and the pain was so increased that she compared it to a bull-dog gnawing her liver. After 9 or 10 months she thought there was something alive in her side, for (to use her own expression) she said she plainly perceived a tickling and quirling in it. She I'arely felt much uneasiness when in motion, particularly when on horseback, but was most distressed when lying in bed. She accidentally discovered that a quick smart blow, struck with an open hand on the affected place, gave immediate relief, and therefore often called her sister to do it. If the pain was in the side when relieved by the blow, it was usually felt next in the shoulder, and vice versa if in the shoulder. The same remarkable thing arose from the application of a lixivial poultice to the side for the space of two weeks, during which time the pain was altogether in the shoulder, but again returned to the side soon after that medicine was removed. " In the place where the disorder began, which was about five inches from the spine, the ribs were gradually distorted, so as at length to form a considerable gibbosity; the teguments surrounding