EMBRYOLOGY. DEVELOPMENT OF THE HEART. 855 same as in the preceding, but the four chambers of the heart are more plainly indicated. The trunk of the arteries still shows no sign of division. Model 6. The heart of a human embryo, which measured in the bent condition 9 lines from the second cerebral vesicle to the sacrum. The two auricles are now of large size, forming by far the greatest part of the heart. They encircle the ventricles in front. The arterial trunk is now beginning to be divided by growth of a septum from right and left into its lumen, to form the aorta and pulmonary artery. The sinus venosus is replaced by a short trunk with two branches which represent the superior and inferior venae cavae. Model 7. The ventricular and arterial portions of the same heart opened on one side to show the division of the ventricles by a septum growing up from the apex and sides; this is still far from being complete. The auriculo-ventricular orifice is single and very large. Model 8. The heart from a slightly larger embryo, showing a more advanced but similar condition. The aorta and pulmonary artery still form one stem, but the septum divides it inside com- pletely into two canals. The venae cavae enter the auricle by distinct openings. Model 9. The same heart, the auricle opened from behind, showing it still a single cavity. The ventricular septum extends considerably higher than in the preceding, but in the middle is not yet quite up to the level of the auriculo-ventricular sulcus ; at the front, however, it has grown up so high as to have united with the septum between the aorta and pulmonary artery, which now lead directly from their respective ventricles on either side of it. Model 10. The heart of a 3 inch long three months old embryo. {Loc. cit., Table XXX., fig. 29.) Shows the heart practically in the condition which it preserves up to birth. The division of the ventricles is complete ; the aortic and pulmonic trunks are distinct up to the point where they communicate by the ductus arteriosus. The actual pulmonary arteries, of very small size, come out under the ductus arteriosus. The auricles are opened, showing two septa, both incomplete, the right of which forms the Eustachian valve in the foetus, and the septum between the auricles in the adult; the