647 TUMOURS OF THE MAMMA. due to two cysts, the one 2-5 cm., the other 6 cm. in diameter; the whole mass being fully as large as a duck's egg. The smaller of the cysts is a large corpus luteum of pregnancy, the larger, a simple ovarian cyst like those in Nos. 45.88 ei seq. The left appendages show a normal healthy ovary attached by a breadth of broad ligament to a thin walled cyst of long oval shape, about 8 by 4 cm., over the top of which is stretched the Fallopian tube. The fimbriated extremity is recognized flattened out on the opposite end of the cyst from the ovary. The tube is quite pervious, and it is shown to be quite clear of the tumour by being dissected from it at one point, and a bristle passed under it. The cyst lies between the layers of the broad ligament, between the ovary and the outer end of the Fallopian tube. Near its outer end there is a constriction, which is seen to be due to a mass of warts (papillomata) growing in a ring round it inside. They seem to divide the cyst into three loculi, but there is a free passage between them through the middle of the warts. It is a simple papillomatous cyst of the broad ligament, derived from some part of the parovarium. 45.115. Large Hydatid of Morgagni. Presented hj Dr. J. K. Kelly, 1897. The ovaries, with the outer segments of the Fallopian tubes, removed from a case of inoperable cancer of the uterus. Mrs. M'G., aet. 38. Double oophorectomy and salpingectomy was performed. Delirium tremens, which she had had before the operation, came on three days after, and she died a week after the operation. From the fimbriated extremity of the left tube hangs a large clear thin-walled cyst of oval shape, measuring 2-5 by 2 cm., which is an unusually large hydatid of Morgagni. The ovaries show healthy Graafian follicles, and the remains of a corpus luteum; evidently they were functionally active. (/) Tumours of the Mamma. 45.116. Carcinoma of the Mamma. Hunterian. DD. 15a. A slice off the front of a breast showing the nipple replaced by a large circular excrescence 7 cm. in diameter, consisting of