HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 724 distinguishable on the ends of the limb buds. The lower end of the vertebral column sticks out as a pronounced tail, the point of which almost touches the head. The umbilical vesicle, measuring about 4 mm. in diameter, lies opposite the back of the neck of the embryo. Though the history allows a possible age of 47 days, comparison of the embryo with accounts of embryos of known age seems to point to its being rather between 30 and 35 days old." (MS. Notes, J.H.T., p. 153.)" 48.169. Human Ovum about Eight Weeks Old. Hunkriun. Bit. 213. A beautiful specimen of the above, formerly described as " about six weeks," the chorion laid open, showing the embryo, which is about 17 mm. long in the straight line from the back of the head to the end of the body, enclosed in the amnion which is large and roomy. The embryo, though not much longer, is much stouter than that in the preceding. There is much less flexion of the cephalic end ; the head is better formed ; the branchial clefts are not recognizable, except the first, which forms the ear; and the digits are distinct. On the outside of the amnion lies the umbilical vesicle, attached to the umbilical cord by a thin pedicle about 8 mm. long. The cavity of the chorion is much larger than the amnion. On the outside the villi are seen, some floating free, others agglu- tinated by decidua into a thin flat I'ound disc about 4 cm. in diameter. 48.170. .Human Ovum and Embryo in the Tenth Week. Extrauterine. Hunterian. EB. 291. Formerly described as "'an ovum about six weeks; extrauterine, see No. 367" (now No. 49.2). "The foetus was found in a coagulum, and is preserved in a bottle marked RE. 291." It is a beautiful specimen of the human ovum, probably, from its state of development, considerably older than is stated in the old cata- logue. The specimen consists of part of the membranes and the embryo mounted on a blue card. The portion of the chorion which was taking part in the formation of the placenta is on the right hand of the specimen. It is lined by the amnion. The other portion, spread out to the left, is almost devoid of villi. On it, lying between the amnion and the chorion, is seen the umbilical vesicle with its pedicle, a very distinct white thread, passing to