DOUBLE MONSTERS. 807 but from external examination the monstrosity is of the same nature as the preceding. One of the foetuses is considerably larger than the other. The faces are turned towards opposite sides, each looking over the right shoulder of the other. 50.42. Thoracopagus Tetrabrachius. Human. Hunterian. MM. 3.3a. (Sternopage.) A similar monstrosity, "apparently at the full time." Not dissected. The heads have been turned so that both look the same way, and the bodies are also twisted from what was doubtless their natural position—facing one another. From the outside there appears to be a greater degree of separateness than in the two preceding specimens. RHACHIPAGUS. The next two specimens belong to a genus of monstrosities which resemble the preceding in being double at both ends, but differ from them in being united more or less laterally instead of face to face. The arrangement of the vertebral columns, which are fused and quite single in the cervical region, and of the thoracic viscera, is similar to that in the earlier members of the genus dipygus tetrabrachius (deradelphe), Nos. 50.16 and 50.17, but the head instead of being single is more or less double. The charac- ters of the genus appear in detail in the description of No. 50.43. 50.43. Rhachipagus. Sheep. From Dr. Allen Thomson's Collection. A monstrosity of very early foetal age, probably of sheep. It has two heads united after the manner of a diprosopus tetro- phthalmus, i.e,., by the posterior parts of the adjacent sides of the heads, so that there are two faces distinct in front of the eyes. There are only two ears, no trace remaining of the inner couple. There are two fore legs, which belong to different animals; verte- bral column single from the atlas down to the lower cervical region, where it becomes double; and the abdomen below the umbilicus and the hind quarters are completely double. The thorax from the front appears to be single. On dividing the sternum, a heart, very large in proportion to the size of the animal, is seen; it appears to be well formed, and single. The lungs are