066 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. There is no history, so whether or not the case was one of placenta praevia is not known. (No description in old catalogue.) 48.11. Breech Presentation. Second Position. Attitude of the Foetus. Himferian Cast No. 11. Cast from the same subject as the preceding, Avith the amnion removed and the edge of the placenta turned down, showing the large radiating vessels of its inner surface. Compare No. 48. 9 for the relations of the projections of the surface of the uterus to the parts of the foetus. The surface of the head and shoulders of the foetus is remarkably even, the hands being raised to the head and filling up the corners between them. The breech points very straight bade towards the right sacro-iliac synchondrosis, occupying the right oblique diameter of the pelvis. It does not appear to have engaged in the brim of the pelvis. The child is a fairly large one. (No description in old catalogue.) 48.12. Pressure of the Gravid Uterus on the Rectum and Urethra, producing Distension of the Intestines and Bladder. Hunterian Cast No. 19. (No description.) A cast in plaster of Paris, coloured, of the whole trunk and part of the thighs of a woman, apparently near full time. The abdomen is laid open by a crucial incision. The hypogastric region is occupied by the bladder distended to about the size of the uterus at six months. Above this, directed towards the left, is the uterus, of fair size for full time. The right side of the abdomen and epigastric region are occupied by enormously distended great intestine. The distension of the abdomen must have been very great, and it appears probable that the obstruction of the bowels and bladder by the uterus and its contents was the cause of the death of the woman. The body was well nourished. (No history.) 48.13. The Uterus about the Sixth Month of Pregnancy. Hunterian Cast No. 20. (Not described.) Cast in plaster of Paris, coloured, of the whole trunk and part of the thighs, the abdomen opened by a crucial in- cision, the flaps turned aside, and the anterior parietes of the uterus removed. The uterus is much smaller than at full time, but it ex- tends well up in the abdomen, occupying the whole of the hypo-