798 HUNT BRIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. muscles strongly favours this view of their relationships, as it is the same as is seen in the dipygus tetrabrachius (deradelphe), in which, to right and left of the head, a breast surface is formed by the union of a left side of one animal with a right side of the other, and the limbs form pairs across the plane of union of the bodies as well as across the median plane of each animal. In the present monster the ribs and sternum of the parasitic animal have never been developed, or have disappeared at a very early stage of its existence along with the vertebral column, leaving only the pair of arms, which, as shown by their muscular relations, also make pairs with those of the developed twin across the plane of union. The hinder division of the parasite consists of a pair of hind legs without trace of a pelvis, except the above-mentioned tubercle, which represents the tail. They are united to one another in the natural position. The heads of the femora are close together united by soft parts only. It is attached to the abdomen exactly in the fashion of the hinder part of a dipygus tetrabrachius. It ends above in a fleshy cord, which passes into the thorax between the lower edges of the breast surfaces. The heart lies above it (nearer the head), and more to the left of the developed twin. The monstrosity is clearly, as indicated in the title, a dipygus tetrabrachius or deradelphe, in which one twin is parasitic, only its four limbs and a few traces of the pelvic organs having been developed. 50.29. Kitten with Three Anterior Parasitic Limbs. Presented hy Dr. Thomas Eeid, 1859. The parasite consists of a pair of hind legs and a compound fore leg attached to the left side of the thorax in the same manner as in the preceding specimen. The compound fore leg has five digits and two carpal tubercles close together, and one of the outer digits is a dew-claw (thumb), showing that the limbs are fused, as in the preceding specimen, by their posterior and inner edges. It is a dipygus tetrabrachius with one of the twins parasitic on the other. Female. Not dissected. 50.30. Foetal Calf with Four Parasitic Limbs. Dipygus Tetrabrachius. Hunterian. MM. 43. (Deradelphe.) "A monstrous calf with two bodies, but much shrunk." Not dissected. The relations seem to be the same as