721 DEVELOPMENT OF THE HUMAN OVUM. 48.163. Human Ovum, probably in the Fourth Week. Hunterian. RE. 204. A considerably larger ovum, perhaps a month old, where the chorionic vesicle is seen among the villi fully 15 mm. in diameter; the chorionic villi largely developed on one side where the j^lacenta was going to form, and atrophied to a considerable extent on the other side. 48.164. Human Ovum, probably in the Fourth Week. Hunterian. Ell 206. A somewhat smaller ovum, on which there are comparatively few villi, and most of them are aggregated into a mass like the beginning of the placenta. On the rest of the sac they are very few indeed. 48.165. Human Ovum and Embryo, probably in the Fourth Week. Hunterian. EE. 290. " An ovum at a very early period ; showing the foetus in amnio and a very large vesicula umbilicalis." The cavity of the chorion is nearly 15 mm. in diameter. The amnion is very much smaller, and fits closely round the embryo, which measures 6 mm. in its greatest length along a straight line ; it is very much curved, the head and tail being strongly flexed towards the ventral surface. Three of the branchial clefts can be made out. The limbs are little formless buds projecting from the sides of the body towards the front. The embryo is attached to the chorion by a very short thick stalk, which rises from its abdomen between the hind limbs but further from the tail end of the body than they. The umbilical vesicle is about half the size of the embryo and lies close to it, attached by a slender pedicle to the middle of the stalk. The chorion, as usual, is covered with villi, which are somewhat matted together where the placenta is going to be formed. The centre of this developing placenta corresponds with the point of attachment of the embryo. The allantois is not recognizable. Compare Nos. 48.197 and 48.198—"Vesicula Alba." A magnifying glass is necessary for the satisfactory examination of the specimen. 48.166. Human Ovum and Embryo " about a Month Old." Hunterian. EE. 207. A similar specimen, but considerably larger, the cavity of the