HUNTELiIA.N ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 478 out, showing the entering upper portion. It demonstrates ver}' beautifully the arrangement of the layers—mucous surface to mucous surface, and peritoneum to peritoneum—and the manner in which the mesentery is drawn in, and the curved form which the mass is thereby caused to assume. Injected red by the arteries, yellow by the veins. (Figured in Matthew Baillie's Engravings, Fasc. IV., PI. VI., fig. 1.) 36.34. Intussusception of the Lower End of the Ileum and the Caecum into the Colon. Hunterian. P. 68. " Introsusception of the lower end of the ileum and caecum into the colon, which brought on convulsions, livid countenance, inability of stool, and killed the child (Amyat's) in 24 hours." The specimen shows only the intussusceptum, the outer layer of colon having been removed, except a small portion by which the specimen hangs. The comparatively normal appearance of this contrasts with the crushed look of the invaginated portion. The outer layer of the intussusceptum is laid open to show the inner layer. The outer is entirely colon, wrinkled and swollen. Tracing it downwards, its apex is found to be the ileo-colic valve, with a coarse bristle passed into the ileum through it. The inner layer, consisting of ileum, is seen inside the inverted colon, its upper end turned out and floating free in the spirit. Beside it is the vermi- form appendix, appearing quite natural. 36.35. Intussusception of the Ileum into the Caput Caecum. Adult. The caput caecum laid open, showing a mass of ileum invaginated and projecting through the ileo-colic valve in a sausage-like mass, 12 cm. long by 3'5 cm. thick, strongly curved by the mesentery. The valve tightly embraces the beginning of the tumour. It is hung upside down, as the parts retain their position better that way. History unknown. 36. 36. Slough of the Large Intestine, passed per Rectum. From a Case, apparently, of Chronic Intus- susception. Hunterian. R. 44. "Portions of diseased colon, from a publican in Piccadilly." The specimen consists of two portions of intestine, 10 and 13 cm.