549 THE BASE OF THE BLADDER. 42.13. The Neck of the Bladder in the Female. Hunterian. A A. 13fl. A similar preparation with bristles in the ureters. The tri- angular area between them and the urethra is called the trigone of the bladder; its mucous membrane is free from wrinkles, and presents " a honeycombed surface like that of the internal surface of the gall bladder ; it is very beautiful, and probably a secretory surface for mucus" : it contains numerous mucous glands. It is much larger in the male. Vide next specimen. (6) The Base of the Bladder, the Prostate and Gowpers Glands, Vesiculae Seminales and Vasa Deferentia, and the Prostatic Portion of the U^'ethra. 42,14. The Base of the Bladder in the Male, with the Prostate Gland, Vesiculae Seminales and Vasa Deferentia, and the Urethra. Hunterim. A A. 15. The posterior part of the bladder, with related structures, finely dissected and the urethra opened from above. From before are seen the orifices of the ureters with bristles in them, showing the direction in which they enter the bladder (inwards and for- wards). In front of them lies the orifice of the urethra, these three forming the points of the triangular area called the " trigone of the bladder." The two halves of the prostate are pressed aside, showing the floor of the prostatic urethra, with the caput gallina- ginis or crista urethrae rising from it. The openings of the two ejaculatory ducts of the vesiculae seminales and vasa deferentia (marked with bristles) not close together as usual, but the one about 3 mm. in front of the other. By the side of the posterior is seen the sinus pocularis or utriculus masculinus, the homologue of the female genital passages. From behind are seen the vesi- culae seminales with the twisted vasa deferentia internal, and the ureters (marked with bristles) external to them. Further forward lie the two lateral lobes of the prostate gland, and in front of that Cowper's glands, only partially dissected. Between the vasa deferentia there is a small area of the bladder behind the trigone which is in contact with the rectum; above that they are sepa- rated by the recto-vesical pouch of the peritoneum. Compare No. 42.2.