728 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. decidua vera torn away, and a large part of the reflexa and chorion and amnion cut out, showing the cavity of the amnion. The incisions have been made obliquely so as to bring into view the different layers of the membranes. The embryo is absent, but the umbilical cord and vesicle can be seen. 48.177a. Decidua and Ovum of about Eight Weeks. Presented hy Dr. Service of Dennistcnm, 1897. The specimen, as received from Dr. Service, consisted of the entire abortion covered with blood clots, exactly as it was passed. The history of the case was as follows: " Age not known. Miscarriage due to a shock. No disease, l)ut patient weakened by frequent child-bearing, and much worried and unhappy." The decidua was entire except for a rent on the surface now treated as posterior, which led into the cavity of the decidua reflexa, and a small hole near one of the Fallopian tubes through which the embryo had been squeezed out. The embryo hung by the umbilical cord; its body had been torn open and its head off in the labour ; it was replaced in the amnionic cavity. The decidua presented the customary triangular shape, almost equilateral. It measured 7 cm. on each side, and about 2 cm. in thickness as it lay in a flat dish of water. The three orifices (os uteri internum and Fallopian tubes) were easily recognized, and bristles were passed without difficulty between the orifices of the two tubes, and between each tube and the os. After hardening in spirit, the decidua was opened along one side, all the blood clot inside it removed, and the relations of parts carefully determined without displacing the bristles; the cut was afterwards sewn up with the edges in accurate apposition. A triangular piece was next cut out of the front (non-placental) side of the decidua, revealing the sac of the decidua vera as a rounded bag filling nearly the whole cavity of the decidua. Nearly the whole of the front of the decidua reflexa was next cut out. It then appeared that the amnion and chorion occupied only about one half of its cavity (the full extent of the amnion is shown in the specimen), the rest being a space of considerable size (at that time filled with blood clot) with which the above-mentioned rent communicated. The cavity of the amnion and chorion was very small, and the decidua reflexa over the front and upper parts of these membranes very thin, which accounts for their rupture and the extrusion of the embryo.