DOUBLE MONSTERS. 791 anterior duplicity. The condition is an approach to that described as rhachipagus—anterior and posterior duplicity with singleness in the middle {vide No. 50.43), but the anterior duplicity was so slight that it seemed more appropriately placed along with the dipygus, which in other respects it so closely resembles. The succeeding Twenty-one Monstrosities, belonging to three genera of Forster, Drpijgus tetrabrachius, Syncephalus, and Frosopo-thoracopagus, form a regular series in which the degree of duplicity gradually increases; but the fusion, while differing in degree, is similar in nature. The preceding genus, dipyus dibrachius, is characterized by the presence of two hinder portions placed side by side and vertebral column becoming single below the dorsal region, so that all above the umbilicus is single. In the present set of monstrosities the vertebral columns are distinct—in the lowest form up to the cervical region, in the middle form up to the occiput, and in the highest there is more or less duplicity of the cranium and face also. The common features of all grades are: (1) the face-to-face position of the bodies, (2) the formation of a single thoracic cavity, the parietes of which have a double origin. Accord- ing to Dareste the origin of these monstrosities is as follows : They arise from the overlapping of two centres of embryonic formation on one blastoderm. These are in contact by the cephalic ends, and according to the degree of fusion of the two head folds the head is single or more or less double. The amnionic folds of the two embryos are united anteriorly, and this union extends into the lateral folds from before backwards, so that, instead of two lateral folds of each embryo uniting with one another to form a single thorax in the normal way, each unites with the opposite one of the other embryo, a right with a left and a left with a right, producing two breast surfaces with ribs and sterna to right and left of the vertebral columns, each belonging by half to both embryos. In this way a single thoracic cavity is produced which has two back surfaces corresponding to the two vertebral columns, and two breast surfaces placed laterally to them, each belonging by half to each vertebral column. Where the head is single it faces in the direction of one of the breast surfaces and at right angles to the sagittal axis of the two pelves. Where there are two faces, as in the janiceps, they look opposite ways, in the direction of the two breast sur- faces. Specimen No. 50.23 shows the skeleton of such a thorax.