760 HUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. uterine haemorrhage persisted till admission to hospital on 29th November, 1897. On admission, the uterus was found enlarged; cavity 3 inches; os patent; irregular rounded doughy mass about size of orange to right of and behind uterus, but not filling Douglas' pouch; tender to pressure. Pulsation of right uterine artery very marked. Diagnosis—ruptured tubal pregnancy. In hospital the mass gradually increased in size, pain and haemorrhage continued. December 4, abdominal section; December 19, patient dismissed well." The outer segment of the tube is distended to a very considerable degree, forming a mass of long oval shape, measuring 6-5 by 2-5 by 2-5 cm., which is split longitudinally. The fimbriated extremity crowns the outer end of the mass; its orifice is slightly open. The tube is filled with a mass of dense blood clot, in the centre of which is a small cavity lined with soft clear membrane, apparently the amnion ; there is no embryo. Attached to the inner end of the dilatation of the tube is a well-formed placenta; its intervillous spaces are packed with blood. The clot has been turned out from one half of the tube (it lies on the bottom of the jar); the inner orifice (towards the uterus) appears to be patent; the wall of the tube is uniformly thickened. The probable course of events has been (1) a slow bleeding from the placenta, crushing the conception and distending the tube ; (2) firm clot has formed over the fimbriated orifice and prevented any con- siderable bleeding into the peritoneum, and the even distension and the thickening of the tube have prevented rupture; contrast Nos. 49.3 and 49.6. It is a typical tubal abortion, or what prior to the discovery of the true nature of such specimens, would have been called haematosalpinx. Compare Abortions, Nos. 49.49, 49.50, etc. 49.6. Extrauterine Pregnancy. Hunterian. RR. 369. " A longitudinal section of uterus, where a placenta is seen extraneous to the uterus, and occupying a Fallopian tube: the uterus in this case has not increased very much in size." The sac in which the conception lay is about the size of a cricket ball. Its anterior wall is cut away, showing the interior; a small withered-looking placenta and the stump of the umbilical cord are seen on the posterior wall ; the sac is 1 to 2 mm. thick. Part of its inner side, low down, is attached to the cervix uteri; the rest of that side is altogether free. The outer part of the