697 THE DECIDVA. and veins, often seen containing red blood, which ramify from its outer surface inwards through its substance; the principal arteries run in winding convolutions like the coilings of a snake. It is very thin, and commonly has no perceptible blood-vessels at that part which is situated near the cervix uteri; it grows thicker and more vascular towards the placenta, at the very edge of which it acquires a considerable thickness, and splitting into two strata, is continued over both surfaces of the placenta, but especially its inner smooth surface, blending itself there insepar- ably with the umbilical portion of the placenta. In what sense this membrane covers the outside, or constitutes the uterine portion of the placenta, has been already explained. (See No. 48.25.) The internal surface of the decidua, and its union with the chorion, was explained above in treating of that membrane. (See No. 48.93.) Its external surface, except what was opposite or near to the os uteri, is more or less unequal and ragged, and full of the broken ends of small arteries and veins which come into it from the uterus. Where it is pretty thick it is often divisible into two or more laminae. Its outer stratum or lamella is perforated at each fallopian tube, and at the os uteri." (See Nos. 48.176 and 48.177a, which show the arrangement of the decidua in the early months before coalescence of its two layers.) " This membrane is an efflorescence of the internal coat of the uterus itself, and is therefore shed as often as a woman bears a child or suffers a miscarriage. It is of considerable thickness and one stratum of it is always left upon the uterus after delivery, most of which dissolves and comes away with the lochia. Frequently a thicker stratum separates from the uterus in one part and a thinner in another; and sometimes, especially when the discharge of the secundines is hurried in a labour, the whole membranous parts, both of the decidua and chorion, and likewise its adhesion to the muscular fibres of the uterus, is rather stronger than the adhesion between its external and internal stratum, which we may presume is the reason that in labour it so commonly leaves a stratum upon the inside of the uterus." The decidua in this specimen is a fairly thin membrane; much thinner than in the early months, when it is still recognizable as hypertrophied uterine mucous membrane; but thicker and more opaque than it is by the end of pregnancy, as may be seen in No. 48.108. Compare Nos. 48.123, and the dissections Nos. 48.153 to 48.158.