884 HUNTERIAX ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 52.100. Oriental Bezoars. Himteriau. Portions of a number of small concretions very similar to the preceding. They are even harder and heavier, yet contain only a very small proportion of inorganic matter. (b) concretions consisting of resin0-bkzoardic acid— thk occidental bezoar. There are eight calculi in the collection, which conform in their physical and chemical characters to the figures and description of resino-bezoardic (or lithofellic) acid calculi in the Royal College of Surgeons' Catalogue, p. 234 rf, seq. "Resino-bezoardic acid calculi are usually of an oval figure. Their external surface is smooth and polished, and has generally a greenish-yellow, green, or a light brown colour. They are made up of thin concentric layers, which are frequentl}' of a deeper tint than the exterior. In the centre of the calculus some foreign body is invariably found which forms the nucleus. These calculi are exceedingly brittle; the fracture is conchoidal, and has a resinous lustre. They vary considerably, but are usually larger than the ellagic acid species." The largest in the collection measures 9 inches (23 cm.) in circumference. They are also less hard and of much lower specific gravity than the ellagic acid calculi. " The}' melt like resin in the flame of a candle, and, when more highly heated, give off white vapours which have an aromatic odour, catch fire, burn with a brilliant flame, and leave behind a small shining carbonaceous ash." Before the blow-pipe they melt and burn away, leaving ultimately a ver}- minute ash of fusible jjhosphates. They readily dissolve in alcohol, with the exception of a few flocculent particles. The solution deposits minute crystals, which under the microscope are low six- sided 2)risms. On the addition of water to the alcoholic solution a resinous precipitate is thrown down. They also dissolve in the caustic alkalies and mineral acids. For further particulars, vide Joe. cit. They are undoubtedly intestinal calculi. Their principal constituent—resino-bezoardic acid—appears to be a vegetable resin derived from the resinous juices of the food of the animals in which they are found. They are said also to show traces of biliary matter —a not uncommon constituent of any kind of intestinal concretion. {Catalogue of Calculi, R.C.S., Eng., ]). 240.)