HUNTER!AN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 848 becomes duodenum, two pits which form the liver, and one pit which forms the pancreas; hind gut enclosed in tail fold; anus still imperforate. From behind are seen the groove of anterior oeso- phageal wall, which becomes the trachea, the two buds for the lungs, and the protrusion of the hind gut which forms the allantois. 51.18. Development of the External Form of the Human Embryo from the Fourth to the Tenth Week. (After Ecker.) Frum Dr. Allen Thomson's Collection. Five Wax Models illustrativg the above. After illustrations in Ecker's Icones Physiologicae, Erldiderungstafeln zur Physiologie unci EntwichelungsgeschicUte (Atlas of Physiology and Embryology), PI. XXVI. and XXVII. In 1 and 2 (fourth and fifth week) the cranial flexure is extremely great; the body is closed in front, the umbilical cord having been formed (compare Nos. 51.11 and 51.12, Development of the Chick —Folding-off' of the Embryo from the Blastoderm); four visceral (branchial) clefts are distinct; the limbs are little buds showing- no trace of digits ; the tail is not enclosed. In 3 the digits are indicated ; the visceral (branchial) clefts have almost disappeared. About seventh week. The tail still projects. In 4 the visceral (branchial) clefts have disappeared ; the tail is enclosed; the clefts of the face are still open; the eyes are on the front of the head. Eighth week. In 5 (ten weeks) all the clefts are closed ; the cranial flexure is much reduced, and the form generally is approximately that of the mature embryo. The digits are very short, but their joints are indicated. Compare Nos. 48.201 to 48.228, Development of the Embryo in Series 48, Gravid Uterus. 51.19. The Development of the Face in the Human Embryo. (After Ecker.) From Dr. Allen Thomson's Collection. Four Wax Models illustrating the above. After Ecker. ' {Loc. cit., PI. XXVI. and XXVII.) In No. 1 there is no likeness to the adult face. The front is occupied by a large gap between the cerebral lobes and the man-