561 THE DESCENT OF THE TESTICLES. K. The rectum filled with meconium, and tied at its upper part where the colon was cut away. L. That branch of the inferior mesenteric artery which was going to the colon. M. The lower branch of the same artery, which went down into the pelvis behind the rectum. N. The lower part of the bladder, that part of it which is higher than the ossa pubis in so young a foetus being cut away. 00. The hypogastric or umbilical arteries cut through, where they were turning up by the sides of the bladder in their way to the navel. PP. The ureter of each side passing down before the psoas muscle and iliac vessels in its course to the lower part of the bladder. QQ. The spermatic arteries running a little serpentine. PiPi. The testes situated before the psoae muscles, a little higher than the inguina. In this figure the interior edge of the testis is turned a little outwards, to show the spermatic vessels coming forwards to the posterior edge of the testis, in the duplicature of the peritonaeum; which duplicature connects the testis, encloses its vessels, and gives it an external smooth coat, much after the same manner as the duplicature of the mesentery connects the intestine, conveys its vessels, and gives it a polished covering. The beginning of the epididymis is seen at the upper end of the testis, from which it runs down on the outside (and therefore in this view behind the body) of the testis. S8. The vas deferens of each side passing across, in a serpentine course, from the extremity of the epididymis at the outside of the lower end of the testis, and then before the lower part of the ureter, in its way to the vesicula seminalis. TT. What I have called the gubernacula or ligaments of the testes in a foetus. On the left side this ligament is entire, so that it is seen going down from the lower end of the testis, through the ring of the muscle into the scrotum; but on the right side its upper and fore part is cut away, that the continuity of the epididymis and vas deferens may be seen ; and no more of the ligament is exhibited than what is situated within the cavity of the abdomen. N.B.—The lower part of the ligament, as it is seen in the right side of this figure, lies so loose in the passage through the muscles, and is there so loosely covered by the peritonaeum, that, when the testis is pulled up, more of the ligament is seen within the