702 EUNTERIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. 48.117. The Amnion. Hunterian. RR. 138. A foetus, " about the sixth month," enclosed in its amnion, which is large and roomy. Contrast next specimen. The amnion is described by William Hunter as follows: "This membrane is uniformly thin, transparent, and without any visible fibres or vessels, j'et its texture is firm, so as to resist laceration much more than the other membranes. It lines all the inside of both placenta and membranes, and therefore forms the bag which immediately contains the child and its circumambient water. At the insertion of the navel-string into the placenta, the amnion is continued over the outside of the cord, and covers it all the way to its very beginning at the navel of the child; where, if the texture of the two parts were not so different, we might suppose the amnion and cuticle to be continued into one another. By its internal surface, which is smooth and glossy, it is everywhere in contact with the liquor amnii or child. Its outer surface adheres to the chorion by means of an intermediate transparent gelatinous substance, of which there is sometimes a pretty thick stratum. This connecting medium between the amnion and chorion appears to be neither fibrous nor vascular, and is so tender that the least force or rough handling separates these two membranes even in the most recent state of the secundines; and, if kept till putre- faction is begun, it is scarcely possible to prevent their separation." {Description of the Gravid Uterus, p. 44.) 48.118. The Amnion. Hunterian. RR. 192. "A child enclosed in the amnion. About the sixth month." In this case the amnion clings close round the child, the smallness of the sac being in great contrast to its roominess in the preceding specimen. 48.119. Amnion, Chorion, and Decidua. Hunterian. RR. 170. " A portion of the uterus, showing the membranes partly detached, and an ovarium larger than common, with a very large corpus luteum, having no cavity; one half of the corpus luteum is subdivided by a cut nearly through the whole of it." The decidua is not detached.