802 HUNT BRIAN ANATOMICAL CATALOGUE. diamond-shaped cyclopian eye, with a very small nasal process above it, a small depression representing the nasal aperture, and ears which are united by their anterior inferior corners. The head is very similar to that of the preceding, the bodies are very short and stronglj'^ retroflexed; one of them has a large lumbar spina bifida. The abdominal walls are unformed, and the viscera hang in a membranous sac—a condition of eventration. The external genital organs are represented on each by a pair of what look more like labia than halves of a scrotum separated from one another; as no internal genitals are discoverable, the sex must remain uncertain. There are two livers; the intestines are very short, and both appear to end in cloacae, which lie split open in front between the remains of the genital organs. (c) Terata Anakatadidyma; Monstrosities shovdng Dwplicity of both Ends. 50.38. Prosopo-thoracopagus. Pig. Hunterian. MM.il. This and the succeeding monstrosity belong to a genus very nearly related to the syncephalous monsters. They are united in similar fashion by the anterior parts of the thorax, abdomen, and neck, but the crania and upper parts of the faces are distinct. The lower jaws are united after the fashion of the thoracic walls in the monsters just described, viz., that each jaw unites not with its neighbour of the same animal, but with its vis-a-vis of the other animal. The next specimen is a typical prosopo-thoracopagus, the present one is intermediate between it and the syncephalus. The arrangements in the body are the same as in that genus—two breast surfaces, each belonging by half to either subject. There are two distinct crania and snouts, which, instead of facing one another as in the next monster, are turned to one side, and the one snout lies in the mouth of the other. There is only one distinct lower jaw, which is on the side towards which the faces are turned, and is formed by half from each animal. The two ears and two eyes on this side are well formed; on the other there is one well-formed eye belonging to the head that is biting the snout of the other head, and at the corner of the biting mouth is seen the upper eyelid of the second eye of the bitten head. There is no lower jaw at all on this side, and the ears are placed close together in the occipital region with their anterior